LATIMER CALLS FOR REFORM (See Page Two)

By ROCKY CROSSWHITE
Staff Writer

Change is the order of the day everywhere, or so it seems. Most certainly Davidson College has not been left out. After some thousand or more trips to Charlotte on a rolling U.S. 21, a good number of blind dates with Southern Belles whom all the girls on the hall really liked, and at least two dozen Cop Linker parking tickets, I find myself graduating from a school unlike the one I applied to. Hopefully it is a better school making me lucky for once in my life.

In the future I espy an archives building where the library now stands. Many people would say the present library wouldn’t have to be altered that much for the archive building to become a reality, but I see several documents added from the past few years occupying a good amount of space. Besides the obvious choices of the Blue Sky Committee Report, the Gentlemen's Code of Responsibility, and the Religious Preference Treaty, there will be thick volumes, tied of course, of the Dean’s Office Decrees and a long list of various committees.

Certain members of the Class of ’69 had a good deal to do with the various changes that took place during our tenure. I always thought the Class of ’69 would add something significant but the alterations which succeeded during our matriculation have exceeded even the furthest of my expectations. Most assuredly, the Class of ’69, the last of the old guard Davidson establishment, will not die. It will sort of pass out.

When I entered Davidson in the fall of 1965, the school was somewhat different from what it is today. Besides taking from 14 to 18 course hours in the two-semester program, we attended class six days a week, chapel three times a week, and either Vespers or Church each Sunday. Classes on Saturday cut into our social life quite a bit. Even with the tremendous social opportunities that the Davidson-Cornelius-Mooresville area offers, the situation that exists now is much healthier.

With a good number of chapels, we received our share of bad speakers. I remember singing hymns before programs which featured such orators as a gentleman who presented the hard sell job on why the Piedmont area was the best place to settle after college. He had more pictures, graphs, and visual aids than the ROTC department used all year long. Ministers and other men of God spoke with regularity, possibly trying to stave off the inevitable abolishment of compulsory Vespers. Although some of the doomed Vespers programs were good, many lulled the already fatigued students to sleep. “Sunday Night at the Movies” now accomplishes the same task.

With the exception of Harry Fogleman’s tennis palace and the press box on top of the football stadium, there haven't been that many structures raised on our metropolitan campus. The difference between then and now is on the inside, so to speak. I see that next year, students may be allowed phones in their rooms. As freshmen, we had to fight over one or two phones for the whole dorm. New beds and light fixtures have been added to replace the folding metal mouse traps we slept in and the snake-like mass of extension cords we were forever tripping on. You still get scalded badly in the shower when someone flushes the john anywhere in the dorm, but I guess you can’t have everything.

The complete renovation of Chambers changed the scholastic atmosphere somewhat. The day they installed heat in the Dome room always held a warm place in my heart not to mention other places. Seminar rooms with long mahogany tables replaced the “circle maneuver” we used to practice, and professors now have offices that look respectable and not like dungeon cells. Love Auditorium, before it was Love Auditorium, used to be ideal for compulsory chapel due to the wooden seats designed to keep one’s knees pushing.

(See CHANGES, Page 3)

* * *

Exam Study Shelved

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

CRUMBLEY ACCEPTS ROTC AWARD
Junior was one of the many honored at drill Tuesday.

DMS Conferred On 27 Seniors As Army Presents Decorations

Twenty-seven Davidson seniors were designated Distinguished Military Students in the ROTC Departmental Awards held Tuesday afternoon in Love Auditorium. These students are Bob Apgar, Tom Alison, Brodie Brown, Sandy Brenneman, Tom Cottingham, John Croom, Dan Dean, Marshall Guill, Arnie Hindin, Robbie Hooker, George House, Kerry Keith, Fred Lowrance, Chuck Mendenhall, Frank Murphy, Joe Norton, Pete Norton, Tony Orsbon, Tom Poston, Joe Scales, Greg Simmons, Tate Sterrett, Sam Tallman, Garee Thomas, Bobby Vagt and K. D. Weeks.

In other awards presented by the ROTC Department, six students were awarded the Department of the Army Superior Cadet Decoration for outstanding performance of duty. They are: Dwight S. Brenneman, Fred T. Lowrance, Sterling H. Abernathy III, Emerson L. Bell, Richard L. Weddle and Gene N. Williams. Harry T. Goldman was awarded The Association of the U. S. Army Medal for having contributed materially, through his leadership as

Potential For Aggression Analyzed By Phi Society

By JOE SMITH
Staff Writer

The dangers of the modern world are forcing men to take a new look at their potential for aggression, according to German Professor Thomas Pinkerton in an addressTo the Philanthropic Literary Society Monday night entitled “An Emotional Revolution.” According to Pinkerton, history can be regarded as a struggle between men attempting to achieve full self-expression and their societies’ effort to place limits on drives. He mentioned the Greek conception of the dual nature of man, the Apollonian and the Dionysian, as an example of the realization of this conflict. He also noted examples of this conflict in the writings of Goethe, Hesse, and Brecht. Pinkerton maintains that the tremendous problems which face man in this era, among them the presence of atomic power and the increase in urbanization, demand that man channel his drive to self-expression toward constructive ends. Bill Gill, Lanny Ackiss, Mark Hallenbeck, Andrew Pickens, Beecher Wood, and Sammy Fisher were inducted into the society following the talk.

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

PINKERTON DISCUSSES AGGRESSION

Professor lectures to Philanthropic Society. An MS III cadet to advancing the standing of the Davidson College ROTC. Marshall A. Guill awarded the William J. Martin, III Medal for his outstanding performance of duty as a Company Commander and the American Legion Gold Medal for Military excellence. James B. Puckett and Arthur J. Crumbly were awarded the American Legion Silver Award for scholastic excellence. Robert H. Haggard was awarded the Daniel B. Woods Medal for having demonstrated outstanding qualities of leadership. The American Legion ROTC Gold Award for scholastic excellence was won by George W. House. Woodruff W. Faulk, Jr. was awarded the Third U.S. Army ROTC Certificate of Meritorious Leadership Achievement for continuous leadership development throughout his ROTC career. Richard A. Orsbon was awarded the Reserve Officers Association Medal for having demonstrated as an MS III, the most outstanding qualities of leadership at ROTC Summer Camp Training Camp in 1968. Robert S. Harris was selected as the outstanding sophomore ROTC Band Cadet, and David F. Simpson was selected as the outstanding Martin Honor Guard Cadet. Oliver R. Cross, Jr. won the ROTC Best Platoon Leader Medal for his outstanding performance of duty as a platoon leader. Joseph S. Seales was awarded the Henry E. Fulcher, Jr. Medal for his exemplary spirit of service and outstanding contributions in the field of citizenship. The American Legion ROTC Medal for military excellence was awarded to Lester F. Strong. Edgar L. Thomas won the DAR Medal for demonstrating scholastic excellence, dependability, good character, and leadership ability.

While EPC Debates Experimental Tract

By FRANKLIN ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

Experimental college proposals will be considered again Monday by the faculty Educational Policy Committee, but consideration of self-scheduled exams, the entire exam question, and area exams has been deferred to next fall, Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston said this week. If approved by the faculty, the Experimental College (ExCo) would begin as a pilot program next year with 10 to 15 students. “The objective of the program,” reads the text of the current proposal, “is to make it possible for a limited number of students, acting under faculty supervision, to have a part in designing and implementing their own individual educational programs.” Students involved in ExCo would not have to follow the normal curriculum and would be given credit for the ExCo work in accordance with evaluation similar to Junior Year Abroad work. The dean said that exam proposals, although considered, were “put off, feeling that these other things were more pressing.” He said that no decision would have affected spring exams in any case. However, Johnston did include self-scheduling exams in the topics under consideration and indicated the possibility of such scheduling was not dead. For a student to enter ExCo during the pilot program, he would have to submit a specific proposal for his education during the pilot year and an explanation of why these plans cannot be accomplished under the regular curriculum. ExCo would be administered by a five-member faculty board, to which students in ExCo would report at the end of each term and which would in turn report to the EPC. President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has reacted favorably to the idea, which was debated extensively at a joint student-faculty-administration weekend at Montreat April 25-26. The current form of the proposal originated with that weekend.

THE GOOD, THE BAD AND THE UGLY

By vote of the students, Sigma Phi Epsilon’s Lyman Parrigan was named winner of the Alpha Phi Omega “Ugly Man” contest this week. The project was undertaken by APO to raise money for a local scouting group. Parrigan edged out Sigma Nu’s Dean Cromartie for the title, as the two fraternities raised over $30 of the $60 contributed as votes. APO President Tim Bynum said that the $60 will be added to the $90 raised in the APO book exchange to send some scouts to summer camp. (Photo by George Sproul).

SLC Advises Mediation In Cooks Wage Dispute

The Student Life Committee recommended last Friday that the college administration work more closely with Davidson fraternities to work out the current dispute over fraternity cook salaries. The text of the SLC Resolution said: “We recommend that the college administration work with the fraternity cooks, fraternity officers, the IFC, and the Business Office in order to develop satisfactory ways of guaranteeing that the cooks receive at least a minimum wage and other benefits comparable to those enjoyed by the non-academic employees of the college.” In response to this resolution, a group of fraternity cooks met with Robert J. Stephenson, assistant business manager, and President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Monday night at the Davidson Community Center to discuss the issues involved in this problem. According to Randy Phillips, chairman of the student committee on fraternity cooks’ salaries, some of the cooks were hesitant to attend the meeting. “There was a real fear on the part of a lot of the cooks that they would endanger (See COOKS, Page 3)