SPECIAL EDITION LIX of DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. Circulation This Week: 19,000 28036, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1969

SPECIAL EDITION - NUMBER SEVEN

Board Of Trustees Favors Coed Swap, Holds Athletic Policy Until Year’s End

The Board of Trustees issued a statement at their meeting last Friday guaranteeing that all athletic policy arrangements already in effect would remain in effect at least through this year. The delay of consideration on proposals stemming from the report of the Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics until the special January 9 meeting was given as a reason for the action.

A fee increase for next year totaling $225 was passed. Fees will jump from $2,495 to $2,720.

The trustees approved in principle the proposal for the Eight-College Exchange Program, which may go into effect next fall. Under this arrangement, students from any one of the eight colleges could spend a term or a year at any one of the other colleges. The colleges participating are Hollins, Sweet Briar, Randolph-Macon Woman's College, Mary Baldwin, Hampden-Sydney, Randolph-Macon College, Washington and Lee, and Davidson.

President Spencer said that this arrangement would not preclude exchanges with other colleges. He also indicated that the housing of women at Davidson would be a major problem.

Action on the proposed reorganization of the trustees was deferred pending further study. A special committee was appointed to review the matter.

Park Problems Studied By CRC

The Davidson Committee on Community Relations, formerly The Mayor's Committee on Community Relations, agreed to study the needs of the community for parks and recreational facilities at an open meeting Tuesday. A report as to costs and feasible locations will be made to the Town Council in time for inclusion in the budget next April.

The North Mecklenburg YMCA will conduct a membership drive next week, according to Robert Stone. Memberships will be offered in family ($50), adult ($25), and children’s ($20) classifications. “Any program fee paid will count toward a membership,” he said.

At this time, the North Mecklenburg YMCA has collected over $3000 in donations during a summer canvass. This initial funding was necessary to start the programs in the fall. The YMCA needs $9000 to secure a chapter charter.

James Rastova, director of the Piedmont Area Development Association, reported that the community center had been renovated over the summer and that the new day care center opened Tuesday.

The Committee on Community Relations was made a formal part of the town government last spring, but has no legal fund-raising or enforcement power. Its primary functions are to advise the Town Council and mediate problems within the community.

By JEFF ALLENDER, Staff Writer

The East may be east, and the West west, but the twain can meet and learn from each other, as the new Asian Studies program, under the direction of Professor Frederick Gaige, has set out to prove.

When the Blue Sky curriculum investigations were being held, the committee decided that the courses offered at Davidson focused too narrowly on Western civilization. The new program aims to broaden the scope of education by including Asian studies.

Coffee Travelers Go Down Under

By BILL ESKRIDGE, Staff Writer

“Around the World in 80 Cups of Coffee” continued its world overview with a program on Australia, presented by Alan Wheen on November 5 in the Morrison Room of the college union.

Much of the talk dealt with facts which could be gleaned from any reputable almanac — such as Australia’s geography, climate, and resources. However, on many of these otherwise dry areas, Wheen shed personal light; and some of the facts, though relatively useless, were quite provocative. Did you know that one of Australia’s most thriving industries is the banana industry?

The informal vein of the session lent itself to an informal presentation of the material. Such problems as the Vietnamese War, the draft, and the price of T-bone steak found their way into the program. Perhaps, too, there was some propaganda value for this program. The picture of Australian prosperity, the beauty of their cities, the lack of overpopulation, and the liberal Australian draft law certainly enticed many of the listeners to fall under the spell of the “Land Down Under.”

On the other hand, Wheen presented some of the less desirable aspects of Australia, such as the immigration policy of Australia being essentially white-oriented, and the lack of women in the country.

President Samuel R. Spencer presents the homecoming crown to newly-elected queen Betsy MacBryde, a senior at Salem College. Miss MacBryde reigned over Davidson’s 59-6 rout of VMI. She was sponsored by the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

The trustees approved the statement requiring “that any organization operating on the Davidson campus, whether it be a fraternity, a food service or any other group, meet Federal minimum wage standards for its employees and provide a reasonable schedule of benefits for its employees.” In support of this action Spencer said, “One specific way in which the college can aid the community is by opening the doors of economic opportunity and by establishing for its employees standards of compensation and working conditions which help to set a community standard.”

Authorization was given to a set of procedures governing fraternities wishing to go local. The procedures dictate the steps a fraternity must take in going local if it wishes to obtain permission from the college to use a house on Patterson Court.

The trustees also approved a plan allowing the college to adopt a formula for an EPC return-investment policy, which would permit investment in certain growth stocks.

In other action, the trustees approved plans for renovating Cannon and East dormitories next summer if adequate funds are available at that time.

Copies of the Commission reports will be available on reserve in the library today. The content of Spencer's recommendations to the trustees will not be made public.

Student body President Peter Hobbie said that the Commissions were appointed by Spencer to supply him with information and ideas regarding change at Davidson. “The purpose of the commission is to take a broad view,” Hobbie said of the Commission on Social Patterns on which he served. “It gives a basis on which another form of social life can be built.”

SPENCER COMMISSION REPORTS

A quick turn of the page will reveal that this is no normal issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. On pages two through six of this week’s issue we are presenting the abridged editions of the five Spencer Commission Reports. THE DAVIDSONIAN in cooperation with the College News Bureau is publishing these five advisory reports at this time to allow the maximum amount of discussion among students, faculty, alumni, trustees and friends of Davidson about the major problems facing the school.

It is important to note that these have no legislative authority; they are advisory only, made to the President at his request. On the basis of these reports he will make recommendations to the trustees at a special meeting this winter and subsequent meetings if necessary. Because the total reports and appendices constitute several hundred pages, we are condensing abridged versions.of each report. Full copies are available in the Reserve Reading Room of the Swain Hall. Revised Papers Area Exams Program New Proposal Offers Project As Alternative

THE PRESIDENT AND THE QUEEN sponsored by Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

Professor Gaige Trying To Make East And West Meet At Davidson

The curriculum focused too narrowly on the Western world and did not adequately cover the cultures under which the majority of the world’s population lives. The Blue Sky Sub-committee on Non-western Studies therefore decided to start a program focusing on South Asia. This decision took into account the fact that the college did not have the funds to bring in specialists on all parts of the non-Western world but could gain more by concentrating on one area — South Asia, including India and Pakistan.

According to Gaige, several considerations were important in the decision to choose this area. First, India and Pakistan are very important elements in American policy in Asia. India receives more economic aid than any other country in the world. Also, the South Asian area, including Ceylon and Nepal, is larger than Europe and holds 20 percent of the world’s population. Second, there were already several people on the Davidson staff with South Asian backgrounds. Professor Abernethy teaches a course in comparative South Asian religions; Professor Ratliff has had much experience in Pakistan, Dr. MacCormac did graduate work in Indian philosophy, and two members of the faculty, Professors Lammers and French, have Sanskrit backgrounds. Third, this portion of the world experienced British control for nearly 200 years. The elite class of India today speaks English quite well, which would help in a Junior Year Abroad program, if such could be set up with India. Fourth, India is an open society, the most populous democracy in the world, and thus one of the few countries in the non-Western world in which Davidson could set up an institutional background much like what is now present with Marburg in Germany and Montpelier in France.

After making this decision, Davidson approached Gaige to help coordinate the setting up of this interdepartmental program. Gaige, who received his bachelor’s degree from Oberlin College and a Master’s degree from Brown University, is currently completing his doctoral dissertation in the Department of South Asia Studies at the University of Pennsylvania. He spent two years teaching and researching in Nepal, and during the past year acted as a graduate research historian at the Institute of International Studies of the University of California at Berkeley. His background is interdisciplinary, focusing primarily on the history and politics of South Asia.

Since the South Asia Studies program overlaps into the areas of many departments, according to Gaige, no major will be offered — but courses will be offered in various Social Science and Humanities areas and South Asia-oriented courses will be offered in six or seven departments within the next several years. “This depends,” Gaige commented, “on certain current faculty members doing studies, coming back to teach courses, and also bringing in several new professors.”

“We hope that there will be an interdisciplinary team-taught course offered called ‘Civilization of South Asia,’” he added. The content of this course is still up in the air, he stressed, as all the plans depend on what the staff finds to be the most beneficial setup for the program. Also in the works is the hope for a junior year abroad or summer program in India or Pakistan, to give some kind of opportunity for students to study and travel in the South Asia area. As these programs are difficult to arrange, Gaige said, they will not be in effect for another year or two, at the earliest.

Besides Abernethy’s comparative religions course, the college presently offers Political Science 170, “International Politics in South Asia,” taught by Professor Gaige in the Winter term. In the spring term, a course will be offered on the modern history of India, dealing with the growth of nationalism and the movement toward independence under such leaders as Gandhi and Nehru.

His responsibility in his first year with the program is to introduce to the college community as a whole something about the South Asian culture, background, and problems. In this respect, he sponsored this fall a series of seminars where the faculty and their wives could attend meetings where they could learn about the history, culture, and current problems of the South Asian region.

ED. NOTE: Due to the lack of space in this week's paper, it was impossible to reproduce the complete text of the EPC proposal. The story which follows attempts to assimilate the important aspects of the report, which will be presented in its entirety in next week’s paper.

By GRAY WILSON Staff Writer

The Educational Policy Committee has issued a report calling for a major revision of the requirements of the area program. Breaking the silence of several closed sessions in the past three weeks, the committee has released a three-page statement which would modify several provisions of the area program.

If the proposal is accepted by the faculty, the immediate result would be to reduce the pressure on the Sophomore class by requiring that only one area exam be passed for entrance into the junior year. Basically, the proposal would limit the area requirements to three area examinations which must be passed before the senior year. Alternatives may be substituted in place of two examinations in the form of a course or a special project, depending upon the options for each class.

Each freshman would have the option of taking an area exam or enrolling in a non-credit course on a pass-fail basis. Each sophomore would be required to pass one area examination, with no option provided. Each junior would have the choice between passing another area examination or engaging in a special project. This project must be approved by an overseer who will grade it on the basis of satisfactory or unsatisfactory work.

The proposal contains other special provisions. Students participating in the foreign exchange program their junior year may arrange a special project to be done while they are away. Furthermore, no examinations or their alternatives can be in the area of the major of a student. If a student changes his major, the requirement in the field of the former major must be satisfied.

The proposal also provides for changes in the examination questions and thus in the suggested bibliographies for each area. These changes would accommodate a program that emphasizes a broad understanding rather than a detailed knowledge of the area. The student can use either option or a combination of both approaches in taking the examination in that particular area. Whichever option he chooses, the student must state what he has learned from his reading.

Since the proposal has been presented during the 1969-70 academic year, its provisions would not go into full effect until next year. The present types of examinations would still be used this year, and no alternative can be offered to freshmen in the spring. Any area examinations already passed are valid under the proposal. Regardless, all present freshmen and sophomores would be required to pass three area examinations or their alternatives.

The provisions of the proposal are prefaced by a statement of purpose of the area program. The studies are designed to expose the student to broad areas of knowledge through a creative and imaginative exploration of new areas of study largely upon his own initiative.

The faculty is scheduled to meet next Tuesday to consider the committee report.

PLEDGES, OATHS AND FRIENDLY DISCUSSIONS

Dress rehearsal of Woody Allen's comedy “Don’t Drink the Water” prepares cast for performances tonight and tomorrow night at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. The comedy, which is directed by Rupert Barber, is the first drama production of the 1969-1970 season. (Photo by Trotter).