Two October 23, 1970

A SIGN OF THE TIME

(Staff photo by Davidson)

A fraternity demonstrator carries his sign.

Plan Defended
(Continued From Page 1)

Spencer responded that a half-and-half system was more desirable than non-selection. Trustees have the responsibility to decide future arrangements for students to come.

Lyman Parrigin warned about moving too fast: “If you do away with fraternities now, it will be very difficult to establish them later if it turns out that they are worthwhile. The reason the system has not worked is that there has been no acceptable alternative to being a fraternity member.”

Parrigin expressed his feeling that the student government was not representative of student opinion and the group agreed wholeheartedly. He added that elections were based on trivial matters rather than issues which provoke significant opinion or debate.

Freshman senator Davidson stated that all of the candidates for this office in his class had outlined their positions concerning fraternities, and that everyone elected opposed the new system.

Medical Records
By WINDY MARCH
Staff Writer

The medical records problem at the Davidson College infirmary was resolved, to the apparent satisfaction of all concerned, in a meeting held on Oct. 14, between President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Dean of Students Richard C. Burts, and Dr. William C. Davis Jr.

THE DAVIDSONIAN has received a statement from the office of Dean Burts on the outcome of this meeting. According to this statement, Burts has directed that, in the future, the daily records of the infirmary be typed “by a secretary outside the Dean’s office and returned directly to the infirmary.”

“On a weekly basis, or more frequently if emergency conditions prevail,” Burts said in the statement, “the college physician will give an impersonal statistical report analyzing the types of services which the infirmary has rendered.” This report, Dr. Davis later

Hall Plans Dorm Meetings
By ANDY STRAWCUTTER
Staff Writer

Clinical psychologist R. Meredith Hall, who meets with Davidson students two nights a week, is seeking to initiate a program of meetings in the dorms this year. Hall normally meets with students Tuesday and Thursday who make appointments through the office of student counseling. The program allowing meetings in the dorms has already been tried on a preliminary basis according to Hall.

Last year, Hall said, some 60-70 students met with him, many making several visits. Hall described the students who came to see him as “concerned individuals.” They seem dissatisfied with

Davidsonian Staff

Chief Associate: PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editors: DICK ANDERSON, JOHN McLEAN, RUSS MERRITT, JOE SMITH, TOM VERNON
Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT, DON PARMAN
Sports Editor: ERNIE SHIPE
Assistant Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD WILSON
News Editor: SCOTT DAVIDSON
Copy Editor: STEVE CROSS
Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE
Assistant Sports Editor: A. W. TURNER
Cartoonists: J. B. FAWCETT, ZACK MOBLEY, CULLUM ROGERS, DARYL WILLIAMS
Circulation Managers: BRUCE PUCKETT, HOWARD RAMAGLI
Photographers: DAVE DOTY, ROGER MANLEY, SAM RAMACHANDRAN, BOB STRAND

Contributors this week: James Hanna, David Hanig, Alec Hoon, Jeff Allender, Robert Touchton, Andy Strawcutter, Windy March, Doug Brown, Joe Earle, Hal Canter, Dave Tierney, and Peter Michael.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of their lives and want to know why, he said. The majority of visits are made by upperclassmen, because “upperclassmen feel more acutely the pressure of being individuals. They are preparing to enter graduate school or to start a job. Some seem to have trouble finding the security they need withinthemselves.” Hall said he can recognize a definite trend towards “more involvement” among younger people. “The college campus in general is more concerned with social and political issues.” He feels this is reflected on the individual level. Students are examining their own lives and when they find something wrong they often need professional help to cope with it.

Problem Solved said in an interview, will not include names of students treated. The Dean’s office will also receive a daily attendance report from the infirmary, but this report will not include records of treatment. In the past, there has been some concern over the handling of the records. Davis had said that the traditional method of handling the records was inconsistent with medical ethics. Now, said Davis, the ethical conflict has been completely eliminated.

Davis had also expressed concern that students with touchy medical problems, such as drugs, might be afraid to come to the infirmary for fear of having their records exposed. Burts called such fears on the part of students groundless. “In no case,” said Burts’ statement, “have medical records been used for disciplinary purposes.” Davis agreed that such fears were unfounded. Burts and Davis also agreed in saying that it is necessary for the dean of students to have some sort of report on medical problems on campus. Burts said that under the new system his response to medical problems, in the form of visiting sick students or being aware of epidemics, will be less convenient. But, he said, he does not think his function as dean will be significantly harmed. He said he felt the concession worthwhile in order to relieve students of whatever fears they might have.

Celebration Experience (Continued From Page 1)

style lighting. And the results, to say the very least, were interesting. The audience, which came essentially to be entertained, was fully involved in spite of itself and the traditional Davidson apathy. It is a rare sight indeed to see Davidson students and faculty members dancing about the Morrison Room, clapping their hands and singing, in essence, celebrating for the sake of celebration. Yet there still existed a void in the enthusiasm. Something necessary to a true religious experience was obviously missing. By Wardlaw’s own definition, the experience was not worship, for a lot of people did not find it to be “meaningful.” For all the enthusiasm, all the soulful shouts of joy and all the ebullient smiles and greetings, the element of sharing was not there. Joy is fulfilling only inasmuch as it is shared with another, and no provision was made in the service for such give-and-take experiences. The individual enthusiasm was simply that, individual, at nothing or no one in particular. It was a selfish celebration.

The event was still worthwhile, however, if only because it introduced many in the community to the new forms and experiments in the worship experience. Also, it gave the normally staid member of the academic community an excellent chance to “let his hair down.” And, in the final analysis, it was a very commendable attempt at making the religious experience more meaningful. Very few who experienced the celebration will ever be satisfied again with the typical church service at Davidson College during the school year.

Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

(Staff photo by Lyle)

THE HOMILECTIC MAN — Rev. Don Wardlaw leads the celebration.