Friday, September 25
7:30 p.m. Hungry i with Steve Baron

Saturday, September 26
5 p.m. Sullins Mixer
7:30 p.m. Hungry i with Steve Baron
8 p.m. Football with Richmond

Sunday, September 27
7:30 p.m. Hungry i with Steve Baron
Morrison Room

Monday, September 28
Tuesday, September 29
9:30 p.m. Movement for New Congress
Morrison Room

Thursday, October 1
8:03 p.m. Movie: "The Cheyenne Social Club"
Morrison Room

Friday, October 2
8:03 p.m. Movie: "The Cheyenne Social Club"
Morrison Room

Saturday, October 3
2 p.m. Football with Trinity College
Richardson Stadium
3 p.m. Soccer with Methodist
Fayetteville, N.C.
8:30 p.m. Movie: "The Cheyenne Social Club"
Morrison Room

Panel Planning 3-Term Free U.
By DAVID HANIG
Staff Writer

The two members of last year’s Free University committee left for Junior Year Abroad without instructing their successors how to
organize the program. As a result, this year’s Free University committee is a little short on experience. Nonetheless, the Free
University program this year will offer courses in all three terms for the first time. Earl Robinson, senior member of
the committee, hopes to avoid such confusion in the future. “This year,” he said, “I'd like to spread responsibility to
prevent this sort of thing.”

The astronomy course is now given for credit by the physics department. Courses which have been popular in the past
have been contraception, bridge, auto mechanics, guitar, chess, and astronomy. This year, the Free University committee is writing a questionnaire
to send to students to give them an opportunity to express their course preferences and to give their ideas for
new courses. “One of the problems is just getting students to give suggestions,” Robinson said. High turnover of the committee
due to the difficulty of the basic organizational work, “We should have enough people this year,” Robinson said.

Festive Oct. 17 Planned
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Staff Writer

As October 17 and Davidson’s traditional Homecoming weekend draw near, the College Union Board is working to schedule the final
events of the major fall term social event. Heading the list of “name” entertainers planned for Homecoming 1970 are Kenny
Rogers and the First Edition, currently one of the most popular groups on the college circuit. As part of Davidson's
Artist Series of fine performers, the New York Electric String Ensemble, a group of five Julliard-educated men who perform “Bach
to Rock” on electrical instruments, will perform on Friday night. Following the Saturday night concert with Kenny Rogers and the
First Edition, Freeway will play for a dance from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Freeway, formerly known as Freedom 70,
was to have performed at last Saturday's mixer with Salem College freshmen, but was postponed because of illness in the
group.

On both Friday and Saturday nights, the movie “The Sterile Cuckoo,” which stars Liza Minelli, will be shown. Henry Nilsson’s
song “Come Saturday Morning” is the movie's theme. A major part of Homecoming for students and alumni alike is the
Saturday afternoon football game, which this year pits the Wildcat varsity against the Paladins of Southern Conference foe Furman University
from Greenville, S.C. The game will be played at 2 p.m. According to Stuart Sheldon, a student coordinator of Union-sponsored
events this year, “Surrounding activities will be announced later, which will build upon the resources in the Davidson community such
as the ‘Hungry i.’” Although these events have not been firmly scheduled, Shelton promises a full weekend of events, which
will include traditional happenings as the Sunday breakfast following Saturday night's dance.

Baron Manufactures Semi-Sweet Songs With Landscape Lyrics At “Hungry i”
A REVIEW By Paul Rowland

Chocolate often proves a useful guide to the understanding, or at least the description, of music. Tom Jones, for example,
is like devil's food cake. He's very white on the outside, but has a very black voice. The publicity garbage
put out on Steve Baron describes his work as “a strange combination of folk, rock, and jazz.” To be sure,
Baron and buddy, bass-player Jeff Lowell, have the appearance of rock performers with hair and apparel. And they have a
folkish sound—due primarily to Baron's acoustic guitar—and a few numbers where the lyrics are talked more than sung. But jazz
just isn't there. Nor does it need to be.

Hershey sells several sorts of chocolate. There's the very rich milk chocolate; there're crunchy varieties with almonds, peanuts, or puffed
rice; and then there is semi-sweet. Baron's ballads are semi-sweet. They are definitely not the sickeningly sweet ditties so often
heard on WAYS (e.g. bubble gum). Nor are they the sonorously sour songs variously perpetrated by artists from Dylan to
Joplin. Nor are they in between; they are simply semi-sweet.

Reeling through the roller-coaster rush of “Don't You Hate the Feeling” Baron spits out the words, and Lowell's harmony vaguely
reminds you of something between Simon and Garfunkel and the Everly Brothers, but without the drippy, teeny-bopper business. Then singing
something softer Baron's baritone delivers his lyrics with occasional vibrato reminiscent of Donovan (remember Lalanya?) but again without the teeny-bopper
milk chocolate. Avoiding the atrocious addiction to alliteration once displayed by Crosby, Stills and Nash (before Young), Baron's lyrics paint
landscapes and often let you fill in the foreground. The total effect is on the plane between giddiness and despair,
between happy and sad; in short, savory melancholy.

The Fall Fever decor of this Hungry i (described by Baron as “like giant, black baggies”) may not be worth
having your retinas fried by the black lights, but Baron is well worth fifty cents and a study break or
a cheap date. Reviewers are fond of taking all or more than they've said; this is one of those cases
where the artist doesn't do much but what he does he does very well.

WELCOME TO DAVIDSON
Nine foreign exchange students and their advisers assemble. (Photos by Davidson)

10 New Foreign Scholars Lend Cosmopolitan Flavor
By WINDY MARCH
Staff Writer

Several of the 10 foreign students attending Davidson this year expressed definite opinions on politics, the race problem, and the
school in recent interviews. Nine of the students are Richardson scholars. The other, Nadeem Faizi, is here on his own.
A native of Communist-controlled Mongolia, Faizi left his home over a year ago. He traveled through the Middle East and
Europe, and then, with the help of friends, came here to school. Questioned about the student radical movement in America,
he said he found American students generally more conservative than those in other countries. But, he said, political and economic
conditions here are less conducive to student rebellion.

Two Richardson scholars from West Germany, Rainier Langenberg and Peter Hans, agreed that students here are more conservative. They did
not consider themselves members of the “radical minority” of German students. Still, they said, they had not expected to see
such ceremonies as the convocation on Monday. In Germany, they said, such ceremonies were sure to be disrupted by students.
Ken Ozeki, Richardson scholar from Tokyo, said that America held few surprises for him due to the familiarity with America
in Japan. In Ken's words, “I experienced no culture shock.” He did say, however, that he had expected racial prejudice
to...be more obvious, especially in the south than he has found it to be. Tesfaye Demmelash, of Ethiopia, echoed this
sentiment when asked what he thought of the racial problem in America. Other Richardson scholars for this year are: Rene
Castelein, from the Netherlands; Sten Jacobsen, from Denmark; Gudmundur Karlsson, from Iceland; Satoshi Konishi, from Japan; and Mobashir Salahuddin, from
Pakistan.

A FOLK DUO Steve Baron and Jeff Lowell appear at the Hungry.

Davidson YMCA Expands Projects, Stressing Involvement
By JIM HANNA Staff Writer

The Davidson YMCA chapter's activities this year will be “pretty much the same programs as before, but with a few
new wrinkles,” according to College Chaplain Scott Woodmansee, the group's faculty advisor. All the programs stress “helping the Davidson student
become involved in problems both on and off the campus,” said Woodmansee.

In addition to regular services sponsored by the YMCA, which range from the ‘Stimulus’ discussion groups on campus to leading
Boy Scout troops in the Davidson area, two new major activities are slated to begin this year. These are an
ecumenical worship service, to be held every Wednesday morning at 10:00 a.m. in the Lingle Chapel, and a group of
“task forces” set up by the YMCA Cabinet to study social problems such as poverty, urban ills, and educational reform
in the Davidson-Cornelius area.

Programs continued from the past include the STEP program, where college students tutor elementary students in the Davidson and Cornelius
schools, Hall Discussion Groups, and the International Student program. The STEP and Religious Life committees will expand their respective areas
of operation. STEP will expand its activities to include participation in North Mecklenburg YMCA programs that involve grade school and
junior high students, such as Gra-Y and Tri-Y.

The Religious Life aspect of the YMCA’s plans will expand in two ways. Small groups such as encounter groups, sharing
groups, and Bible-study groups will be formed. Also, special religious “celebrations” will be held. Woodmansee said that the first of
these “very contemporary” celebrations would be held October 20 in the Morrison Room. Scheduled to lead the services are a
speaker and musical group from Atlanta, but the organization of the program will, said Woodmansee, “encourage the participation of all
present.”

Woodmansee also stressed the point of student participation in all YMCA activities. “All our committees are active, but they are
only as active as the people in them want them to be.” Interested students may learn more about participating in
the YMCA by talking to Greg Scott, the president of the YMCA cabinet, or to any other cabinet member or
committee chairman.

Hinson Expands Films Program

The Union's Fine Films program this year will be the largest to be seen at Davidson in recent years. Senior
Dick Hinson is responsible for organizing the program, including selecting the films which appear. “I tried to arrange a program
which had some variety this year,” Hinson said. “My basic idea is that it is time for motion pictures to
take a central position on this campus. Films are the most relevant art form of our time. The camera itself
is the result of modern technological advancements.” Hinson added that in the future he would like to see a movement
toward “thematic groupings in the fine films series or perhaps directorial groupings.”

Hinson himself made the final selections for this year’s films. “I talked with several professors, Holland, Abbott, Bliss and Cornwell,
just to get some ideas and some names to work from. Then I did reading in some books on the
cinema to decide which of the suggestions that I wanted to include in this year's series.”

Only four of the films are products of the last decade. Hinson said that the decision to show the earlier
films was made on two counts. “The more recent films are more expensive. For example, ‘La Guerre Est Finie,’ produced
in 1966, was by far the most expensive. And then, too, there are so many great films from the 1920s
and 1930s, like Charlie Chaplin's ‘Gold Rush,’ that people aren't aware of.”

Hinson put the cost of the series at roughly $1500. He added that he hopes that ticket sales will meet
the cost. Season tickets for all 15 shows cost five dollars. Single admission is one dollar. As in the past,
there will be discussions after each film which will be led by professors or interested students over coffee.

Computer System Fails To Produce Class Rolls
By STEVE EARP Staff Writer

The class rolls for this year finally emerged from the depths of the new computer system in time for Tuesday
classes. Jerry A. Roberts, associate professor of mathematics, and Ken Carmack, systems analyst, finally succeeded in producing the lists after
a frenzied summer of preparation and four days of classes in which professors had no class rolls.

“The new computer didn't arrive until the first of August, and we just did not have enough time to set
up programs, test them, and run them through the system,” Roberts said. “It is normal for an operation of this
type to take several months.”

The work began in earnest in June, when Roberts and Carmack started writing programs to feed into the computer. “The
scheduling system alone took more than thirty different programs, and each program takes a full day to set up,” Roberts
commented. “When that’s finished, we need to test each program by itself and again in conjunction with the others. All
this testing was just impossible to do in such a short time.”

“We couldn't anticipate all the problems, though,” Roberts said. “One student used the drop-add option, but he signed up for
the same three courses again. The computer turned a flip over that one.” The two men still managed to come
close to the deadline, though. “One weekend Ken came in on Saturday morning and didn't leave until Monday night. I
worked straight through on three different nights,” Roberts stated.

Now that the immediate crisis has passed, Roberts will return to his normal teaching job, while Carmack will take over
the computer office completely. The next big project for the system will be the students’ grades for the first term,
which go out in December. “There is plenty of time for that, though, so there shouldn't be any real problem
there,” Roberts said. “I think we'll have a very flexible, useful system—once we get the problems ironed out.”

Classes To Elect Senate
By DOUG BROWN Staff Writer

Thursday, Oct. 1 is the deadline for candidates to qualify for election as RHC members, SGA senators, and freshman class
cheerleader. The election will be held on Oct. 8. Allen Peterson in 211 East is currently registering candidates for office.
“I guarantee there will be a run-off,” he said, although the date for the run-off has not yet been fixed.

Each dormitory will elect one RHC representative and one SGA senator. However, since freshmen are on the third and fourth
floors of Watts and the first floor of Belk, it is probable that these floors will vote as a unit.
Each class will elect three senators at large, and the individual who receives the most votes will become the president
of his class. The off-campus students will also elect a senator.

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead PIZZA

Muthers Coffeehouse Theater 1225 Central Ave. phone 376-7100 Folk Music, Blues, Drama Cold Beer Open 7 nights a week 6:30
to 12:00 Rock Bands Sunday only 1-5
