Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO FEBRUARY 20, 1970

Judicial Scramble: Magical Mystery Tour

Is the Davidson system “turning and turning in the widening gyre?” Are things falling apart? Can the center hold? These
questions suggested by Yeats’ poem “The Second Coming” arise out of the confusion that boggles the minds of beholders and
participants alike when some aspects of the Davidson Code of Responsibility are being considered. Although the Code is not due
for its own second coming until later this spring, the bewildering complexities around parts of it, especially the parts dealing
with the judiciary, have surfaced once again this week in two separate incidents that are indeed stranger than the Code
itself.

The first of these events was the administrative decision of last week to cease publication of transcripts of court proceedings.
These transcripts are required by the Code. Thus you may imagine the bewilderment of several students last week when they
were told in the Dean of Students’ office that such transcripts did not and would not ever exist (a decision
made at an even higher level).

It was not long before a few of these students who do know the Code pointed that fact out to
the higher members of the Davidson administration. And it was within an equally short time that these same administrators discovered
that yes, indeed, the publication of transcripts was required. So if the Davidson judiciary seems strange to you, take heart.
It catches a lot of people by surprise.

Perhaps the person most surprised by the system last week was the Junior who experienced what may be remembered as
the shortest legal career in Davidson's history. It all started when one member of the Court of Appeals found he
would not be on campus for the Spring term or for next year. He is now a Sophomore. Realizing someone
would have to replace him on the court, our Sophomore in question talked to our Junior in question since he
knew that the Junior had expressed a desire to be on the court.

The two of them decided that the Junior could replace the Sophomore on the court. It was all very convenient
since the Junior would graduate next year leaving the vacancy for the Sophomore to fill when he returned to school
two years from now. When he had settled such details, the Junior dressed up, went to a meeting of the
Court of Appeals, introduced himself to everyone, and actually participated in court discussion. After the meeting, regular members of the
court were still scratching their heads. Where had this new member received his position? A little quick research turned up
the whole story. It also turned up the requirement in the Code that the replacement should have been a Sophomore
in the first place, and should have been appointed by the Senate Executive Committee in any event. So to our
thwarted Junior we can only say: “Keep the faith. Perhaps the next time a Code technicality will save your face.
Who knows what mysteries lurk in the heart of the Code?”

A New Trend

If they do not scorn praise (and some do not), and if they will accept it from THE DAVIDSONIAN (and
some will), we would like to thank and commend the members of the Eumenean Society for organizing the symposium on
“Science and the Humanities.”

The programs were interesting to many, valuable to some and perhaps inspiring to a few of the students who attended
them. But beyond the content of this one symposium, we would like to thank the Eu Society for seeing fit
to use the talents of some of Davidson's eminently qualified faculty in this manner. The increasing trend toward using our
own faculty in symposia this year has been a highly worthwhile shift from the trends of faculty utilization in the
past. The old chapel requirement used to hurt chances for a program of this sort by boring the students with
a succession of poor speakers until they were not likely to see any other speakers no matter how good or
well-liked they were. And outside of chapel, students could only hear major talks delivered by visiting lecturers because such use
of our own faculty was unheard of.

There are a great many of our faculty who should be allowed to exchange ideas with students who might never
darken the door of one of their classes. Instead of burying our faculty on committees, traffic courts or similar wastes
of their talent, we should give them the opportunity to help all the students and exchange ideas outside the classroom,
lab or court, as it were. And the Eumenean Society symposium is a good step in that direction.

A Word Of Thanks

While we are on the subject of college personnel we would like to express a long overdue word of thanks
to Dr. Ostwalt for his efficiency in handling course registration.

Under the normal circumstances of registration, the process goes well for most students. Explanatory information is usually quite clear, mailed
sufficiently in advance for students to make their plans and complete enough so that often actual registration is only a
matter of minutes. We realize that there are flaws in the system and some students are upset every term by
the way their registration turned out. Most students survive relatively unscathed. But such events are in normal circumstances. Can we
expect the same in periods when there are unusual problems and requirements surrounding registration? The events of the past week
seem to indicate that we can.

There is no denying that registration for the spring term was conducted under unusual circumstances. The entry of many of
the freshmen and sophomores into a third course in the spring overloaded a number of the courses and professors' assignments
that had been planned for the term. This glut of students caused a number of administrative problems for the registrar's
office. And to Dr. Ostwalt goes much of the credit for resolving these problems.

Yet much of the registrar’s work

Is This Week Or Last Week A Concert

Honor Court Questioned; Challenge Is With

To the Editor:

It has come to my attention that recently there have been some rather unnerving incidents on campus which could have
very detrimental long-term effects for this school. These are:
1. invasion of privacy by college officials,
2. the non-renewal of Mr. Johnson's contract for next year,
3. the treatment of one Davidson student by the campus judiciary.

While all of these concern me greatly, the way this student has been treated is possibly the most urgent of
these problems, both in terms of need for immediate action, and what this could mean to the student body. As
I understand it, the defendant has been given extremely shoddy treatment at the hands of this school, especially in the
way the drug case and the honor violation case were dovetailed so as to get the school off the hook
legally or at least that is the way the evidence seems to point.

College Boards

On the Scholastic aptitude and achievement tests may someday be a ghost of the past. The faculty at Bowdoin College
has dropped these standardized exams from the admission requirements in an attempt to end the impersonal treatment of applicants. Richard
M. Moll, director of admissions at the college, felt that the action, “represents, for one thing, an attempt to emphasize
our interest in the highly motivated student, whatever the level of test scores.” Says Moll: “There is a

Also — how much of the defendant’s problem is a put-up job at the hands of certain people on this
campus who don't particularly care for him and want to get rid of him? Has such a put-up job actually
been executed on this campus?

I hope I am wrong about this. I sincerely hope that there have been some bad administrative foul-ups both on
the part of the administration and on the part of the school courts. But if there has been a put-up
job attempt, and if the school timed both cases so as to get off the hook legally, the students here
had better make a lot of noise, and make a lot of noise pretty quickly—because if it happened to that
student it can happen to you. You too can get ruined due to mistakes in justice and someone's distaste for
you personally. What happened to him? What is the truth? When are we to be told publicly?

Actually, this letter is simply an attempt to get things moving around here. All three of the above-mentioned incidents have
serious implications. Each student should look carefully at least one of these incidents. Get all the information you can. If
you don't like what happened in each case, say so—to members of the administration, to the faculty, to the students.
Write a letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN. Find out what is going on, put forth a theory based on the evidence
available to you, and make it public. You might be wrong—but even if you are, you have at least dispelled
a nasty rumor which could further aggravate the situation. If enough students make enough noise, people in high places have
to listen. We had better make noise if it is necessary—otherwise.We are in bad trouble,” Norman Miller Cary Jr. '70
Davidson College Way Out. Considered along with his school record, future applicants at Bowdoin may stipulate the qualifications which they
wish to submit to the college for consideration. Says Moll, “Some applicants may choose to state their case for admission
on what they consider to be more relevant data. At Bowdoin, this is now their option.” This move at Bowdoin
College may be the first in a growing trend to play down the importance of standardized tests in the evaluation
of applicants for admission. William W. Turnbull, executive vice-president of the Educational Testing Service, has predicted just such a trend.
Says Turnbull, “As education becomes truly individual, the importance of external examinations such as the national ‘normed’ college admission tests
will fade away.” Mr. Turnbull believes that new means of testing would be employed to give “a more humane method"
for considering the applicant’s educational abilities. Martin Katz, also a member of ETS, spoke at the meeting. A research psychologist,
Katz envisions the increased use of computerized exams to aid students in choosing their college and vocational careers. Henry S.
Dyer, a vice-president of Educational Testing Service, stressed the inadequacy of using standardized exams to evaluate the accomplishments of students,
and called for a greater emphasis on the individual.

Bowdoin is not going to totally exclude test scores from its deliberations on the applicants, but it will be left
to the student to decide whether or not he wants to have these exams considered along with his school record.
Future applicants at Bowdoin may stipulate the qualifications which they wish to submit to the college for consideration. Says Moll,
“Some applicants may choose to state their case for admission on what they consider to be more relevant data. At
Bowdoin, this is now their option.” This move at Bowdoin College may be the first in a growing trend to
play down the importance of standardized tests in the evaluation of applicants for admission. William W. Turnbull, executive vice-president of
the Educational Testing Service, has predicted just such a trend. Says Turnbull, “As education becomes truly individual, the importance of
external examinations such as the national ‘normed’ college admission tests will fade away.” Mr. Turnbull believes that new means of
testing would be employed to give “a more humane method" for considering the applicant’s educational abilities. Martin Katz, also a
member of ETS, spoke at the meeting. A research psychologist, Katz envisions the increased use of computerized exams to aid
students in choosing their college and vocational careers. Henry S. Dyer, a vice-president of Educational Testing Service, stressed the inadequacy
of using standardized exams to evaluate the accomplishments of students, and called for a greater emphasis on the individual.

Uncle Wart: Percival’s Remover

Monday was a bad day for students who expect great things of their political system. Some of them will grit
their teeth the next time a party politico heralds the virtues of the “democratic system.” Students see politics as a
means to desirable ends; the established men of the society see politics as one of the factors that ensure the
status quo and their position in it. This is known in local Democratic circles as being a “political realist” and
overrides all other considerations. In some parts of the country, citizens have been enthusiastic about candidates who ran on hard
questions and a non-sloganized approach to issues. But that is other places, not Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. Here it's still
candidates who say nothing that get the nod. Any indications that “the Queen City” is a palace built on a
questioning, interested, concerned political leadership is purely illusory. Even the Young Turks seem to have stayed too long in the
tents of their respective sultans. How can a young man go against what’s good for the law firm or the
bank or the insurance company? Surely a little conviction is too small a thing to interfere with such pursuits. Besides,
Mr. Other Candidate has been a big party contributor in the past. He has the money to run the kind
of campaign we want. He supported my campaign. What does it mean? It means that men who wield power over
the public weal are interested first in themselves, second, in their controlling organization, and finally, and it appears only remotely,
in the issues related to the public welfare. Party wheels are party wheels because they don’t believe in the democratic
process; they want to control the democratic process, not encourage it. Party wheels and other “important people” believe in the
American political system because it is run by the established men of the society. It’s good for the party to
have some young faces around. But that's all that’s wanted—just faces, not minds and questions and discontent—just faces. Issues and
questions get in the way of winning. And let's face it, it’s not smart to commit yourself if you don’t
think you can win. Parties are designed to win, not to look out after the country. Parties thrive on winning
and on loyalty to the party as an end in itself: “I'm a Democrat; I have to go with those
people who support the Democratic Party. These people for Jackson aren't even Democrats!” What about the rhetoric that says, “Students
offer no alternatives, they just criticize?” Bunk. Wheels want cheerleaders, not critics. They want pretty children who think their materialist
culture is neat and keen. And busing was fine as long as the black kids rode a bus in one
direction and white kids rode one in the other direction, riding daily to un-neighborhood segregated schools. With apologies for comment
turned to invective, it is incumbent upon your columnist to report that the men of the established society have taken
an undeniable lead in the eternal race of hypocrisy chronicled periodically in this column. One doubts now that they can
ever be overcome.

Edited by Tom Way and C.L. Cheshire

In “Introduction to an Old Acquaintance” an effort has been made to describe a single moment in time. A single
moment appears insignificant if one compares it to an hour or a day, but an hour or a day or
even an entire lifetime is nothing more than a collection of moments. Nick Livengood has taken such a moment in
this short narrative, and he has succeeded in describing it vividly and powerfully. About the first two or three hundred
times it was in one ear and out the other: the meticulously soundproofed environment soaked it up like so much
blood or tears in an expensive sponge. There were to be no traumas. It was common knowledge that whatever it
was this time happened in some gloom-infested Chicago slum. I remember riding through Durham's equivalent with Mother sometimes, the windows
all rolled up and doors carefully locked. She would, upon those occasions, say something about “those poor, wretched beings,” but
they didn't really live there; they couldn't have. Mother would have done something. I guess Dad knew they didn't live
there; he never said anything about them. Then there was a time I don't remember much about; like going through
the rapids—emerging into a great big lake full of water-moccasin snakes. The cat was run over, and I wanted that
mini-bike for Christmas. But that's the way life is: hard. You have got to be tough, taking the blows and
pushing on. The blows. The hard knocks. The cat. The mini-bike. The body. The body was face up, lying on
what was left of its belly. Its viscera decorated the center stripe just beyond, and the moonlight danced on the
scene for a passing cat. Both faded into eternity as expensive headlights were vomited out of the night by screaming,
paid-in-full tires. That place on Highway North Carolina Seventy is random to everybody but me. To the west, there are
nineteen years and four months. As I turned off the stereo-tape, I glanced for an instant to the east and
saw the rest of my days: vaguely illuminated, looming forms, no detail. From A.D. to B.C., I got out and
walked over to the pavement cross, to Calvary, and there was no drifting sensation. My mind did not writhe and
squirm and protest the reality as always before. I was there, it was real. Death and I simply stood there.
He came at me screaming like a neglected teapot, and in the shadow of his baseball cap, his face reminded
me of a pregnant storm cloud: his mouth full of fiery bolts, and tears on his cheeks and nose and
chin and in his eyes. “Did you call the police?” “I didn’t see ‘im, mistuh; he, he, it was dark
in thuh road; me an’ thyh wife,” aiming his index at something in his car, “couldn’ see nothin’; nevuh been
in no trouble. Oh, Jesus, sweet Jesus.” Exactly. The sound of retching. As I walked to the old Ford and
its sobbing passenger, I noticed my feet: neither light, nor heavy, nor numb. All summer the pads had been thickening.
Her heavily teased blondine hair was wilted by tears and sweat. The odor of perfume. “Did you call the police?”
A heavy, echoing nod. Country people, but Jewish all the same. The patrolman told me not to worry, that everything
would be all right. I disagreed, thanked him, and left. The road was the same, and time began again. I
stepped into the house and saw no longer the two attorneys for the estate of my life, but the two
dearest friends I'd ever have. Life and I slept well that night. Death, as usual, slept at the foot of
the bed.

Charles H. Livengood III
