Part 1970

FEATURING GREEK LETTERS! MYSTIC GOODIES! BEWARE OF IMITATIONS

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Durant Proposes ‘Clearer Picture;’ Thornton Refutes Patterson:

Letters To the Editor:

I think it’s time your readers — students, alumni, and trustees — got a clearer picture of the fraternity situation
at Davidson, one that this paper has not put forth. The trustees voted to abolish fraternities, not change them. Spencer
says, “We are not abolishing fraternities.” Well, there is no way for them to remain under the conditions the trustees
set down. These conditions, I must add, were set down to some degree, on some rather false ideas the trustees
were led to believe. Many trustees came out of the meeting thinking the fraternities were $20,000 in debt. Yet in
fact, they are owed $20,000 from past members. Trustees also came out of the meeting thinking that their vote, abolishing
fraternities, was what most of the students wanted. Again, not so. These ideas were put in their heads, in addition
probably to a few more false ones by Spencer, his left-hand man, Peter Hobbie, our infamous SGA, and our excuse
for a newspaper, THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Editor Shoaf speaks of the ‘finality’ in relation to the ‘Blue Sky Report’ requiring area exams? Did THE DAVIDSONIAN, the
SGA, and the students, particularly this year's junior class, work with the trustees’ decision to ensure the success of the
new curriculum? They did not and neither will the students today when they have done wrong.

One final note to the alumni regarding the cartoon in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN. According to several alumni around Charlotte, Spencer
is not worried about the fact that this decision may cut off the support of many alumni. He thinks he
can raise enough himself and run Davidson without alumni support. This fact was given to me by several alumni. Alumni
money is not the only support you can withdraw from Davidson College. Now is the time for every person, alumni,
students to speak up and undo the evil that has been done.

Chip Durant ‘71
Davidson College

To the Editor:

(Professor E. F. Patterson is a frequent contributor to the “Forum” letters to the editorial columns of the Charlotte Observer.
I trust it will not be unbecoming in me to comment on his latest one, published Sunday the 8th, in
which he advocates the socializing of America’s railroads. In case you did not read his article, I have a few
copies that I will supply on request. I think his premises are wrong, and that of course means that wrong
conclusions must inevitably follow.)

(1) He cites as a model for the U.S. to follow the nationalization (socialization) of the railroads in England. But
that country has in a couple of decades gone downhill so fast that it is perhaps at best a third-rate
nation. Its socialized medicine is a shambles and there is credible evidence that many of its doctors have fled rather
than practice under politically appointed know-nothing bureaucrats. It has had one major devaluation and is struggling to avoid another. The
premise that England is a good example for the United States, in anything, is obviously a false one.

LETTER

The Davidsonian ~ November 13, 1970 Page Five

Court Reforms Suggested

To the Editor:

During the last four years I have become increasingly disenchanted with the honor system at Davidson College. This disenchantment results
from what I consider to be several major faults in the nature and operation of the system.

First, the system which we hold to be an honor system of laws. The institution of the court and the
threat of dismissal from school does not make men more honorable. Further, requiring freshmen to sign a pledge before they
have come to Davidson is meaningless.as an attempt to mold a community based on respect and honor. The spirit of
honor which does exist here is a product not of the system but of the integrity of the men who
reside here and the type of community which Davidson is. Second, the punishments do not fit the crimes. Dismissing a
man from Davidson to ensure that he does not spoil the honor of the community totally disregards the effect upon
that man and violates the integrity of the community. Davidson should, rather than suspending a man, accept the responsibility of
constructively dealing with one who deviates from the values of the community. Third, under the present system a man is
considered guilty until proven innocent. In a trial, the evidence is presented by the investigating committee and then the defendant
is asked to convince the court that he is not guilty.

(2) The premise that socialization (which is the historical forerunner of communization) of any public service in the United States
is worthy, is not borne out by the one clear example: The United States Post Office Department. It is publicly
owned and managed. It is, if we may believe half what we read, fouled up with inefficiency and waste. I
think Dr. Patterson should publicly prove, with facts and figures, that socialism and/or communism has created greater freedom and a
better life, anywhere in the world, than we have in these our United States.

E. P. Thornton
Murrells Inlet, S. C.

Polley Corrects Article

To the Editor:

I appreciate the article THE DAVIDSONIAN ran on my trip to the Middle East. At first the caption (“Polley Makes
Archeological Find”) disturbed me, for the only objects I uncovered were potsherds, flints, a bronze ingot, and a bronze nail.
But the first sentence relieved my anxiety by dating the bronze nail 3500 B.C. This would indeed be a “find,”
for the Bronze Age in Palestine is usually dated from ca. 3000 B.C. (at the earliest) to ca. 1200 B.C.;
my discovery clearly calls for a revision of Palestinian chronology. But alas, fame is illusive in this case; it resides
in the slip of the writer's pen. The bronze nail was found exactly where it should have been, lodged in
a thirteenth-century stratum. There is evidence, however, that Gezer was occupied as early as 3500 B.C.

Max E. Polley
Davidson College

Fourth, the institution of the court instills in those elected to the court a feeling that the court is the
bastion of honor at Davidson. I in no way mean to attack the individual members of the court since I
know them well and do not consider them to be evil men. Nevertheless, the feeling of Defenders of Honor does
exist and is perpetuated by the system of a permanent court. The situation, however, is not hopeless. I do feel
that the system can be revised in order to align it with the goals of the whole community.

Accordingly, I offer several suggestions for change:
(1) Abolish the permanent court and substitute instead for each trial a jury, chosen at random from the community of
students, faculty, and administrators.
(2) Institute advocacy procedure.
(3) Institute a position of judge (someone skilled in law).
(4) Change the name of the system to reflect its nature.
(5) Allow the jury (if the defendant is found guilty) to recommend a sentence which will reflect the needs of
the man and of the community.
(6) Familiarize the freshmen with what the community holds to be the responsibilities of a member of their living and
learning community.

These suggestions are only suggestions. This is a matter about which reasonable men can and should disagree. My primary hope
is that the community realizes that the system does need to be changed.

Jimmy Trussell ‘71
Davidson College

GUEST CONDUCTOR LEON FLEISCHER

The Piedmont Chamber Orchestra gave a performance to a crowd of 200 people Tuesday night in Hodson Hall (Staff photo
by Strand).
