‘Stop Drug Enforcement’ SLC Says

By JOHN McLEAN
Associate Editor

Reports from the Student Life Committee (SLC) this week indicate that the college may be on its way toward nonenforcement
of its rules against drugs. Sources close to the SLC said Tuesday it has recommended to college president Samuel R.
Spencer, Jr. that the antidrug clause be dropped from the Code of Responsibility, making way for a “more lenient and
constructive approach to drug abuse correction.”

The report has not been released yet, but sources close to the committee (who for personal reasons chose not to
be identified) provided a resume of its contents. The recommendation was made, sources said, primarily because of legal difficulties of
enforcement as experienced in last year's drug case. The SLC reportedly felt that relaxation of the college’s enforcement would allow
it to develop a more effective counseling program for drug users who want such help.

The SLC report went on to say that while the college should not take punitive steps against drug users or
sellers, it should not “act as a sanctuary for drugs” and should still “seek to discourage the use of drugs...
by unspecified means,” sources said. At the heart of the committee’s concern was that the college could not act both
as law enforcer and private counselor. The report did not say but strongly implied that the college should call on
state police to enforce state drug laws if the campus situation became intolerable in the view of the administration.

Student members of the Regulations Court last year sent a strongly worded statement to the SLC in which they called
for a halt to college prosecution of drug cases. The court members felt that last year’s drug case showed up
a lack of just procedures and “sloppy” rules for evidence.

The SLC recommendations on drug enforcement were part of an overall report to the president on the Code of Responsibility,
which faces trustee review this year. Sources close to the committee said it had expressed “confidence in the purpose and
philosophy of the Code,” and hoped that it would be enforced more aggressively by counseling measures rather than old means.

It reportedly recommended steps which would make the college courts more like an adversary system. For example, the court is
advised to adopt a detailed manual of procedure in all cases, spelling out the rights of the accused in unambiguous
terms. The manual would be prepared by representatives from the courts and lawyers. Also advised was a panel of defense
advisors to aid the accused. The panel would be composed of students and faculty. A faculty defense advisor was first
used in an honor court case appeal last spring.

The SLC also recommended that rules not be applied to freshmen except in “extraordinary” cases, sources said. The SLC recommendations
do not have the force of law but are only advisory to Spencer, who received them last May. Spencer could
pass the recommendations on to the board of trustees, which reconsiders the Code this year.

Davidsonian
October 2, 1970

Spencer Announces Endorsement Of Fraternity Selection Changes

By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has publicly endorsed changes in the basis for affiliation with Davidson fraternities, a move which
would significantly alter the present social system in Patterson Court. In his address to the college community Monday morning, Spencer
suggested that the bidding system now in practice be discarded in favor of house memberships based on random assignment, self-selection,
or other possible grouping.arrangements. Citing the polarization which exists between fraternity men and independents as well as the decreasing membership
and internal conflict in Patterson Court, the President posed his question, “Given the current situation,” he asked, “do we as
a community have the imagination, foresight, and initiative to do more than sit by and wait for total disintegration?”

The proposed changes are similar to the findings of the Student Life Committee (SLC) in their report on Social Patterns
submitted last year. The SLC urged that the situation be handled “by transforming the present fraternity system into a system
of eating clubs, non-exclusive in nature, which would serve as the basic social units for students after the freshman year.”
This committee would introduce random assignment into rising sophomore classes beginning this spring which would completely erase the image of
the old houses by the opening of the 1973-74 academic year. Implementation might be facilitated by linking assignments to the
arrangement of the freshman dorms.

Schedules Cause Cafeteria Overload
By JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer

Overcrowding has hit the cafeteria. Recently meal lines have stretched outside the dining room area. Sometimes students have been forced
to eat standing up while waiting for space at tables to put their trays, as these tables fill up at
certain peak periods.

Breakfast and dinner crowds are often heavy, according to cafeteria manager Klaus G. Kleeberg, but the main problems occur at
lunch. “Of course, the 25 more freshmen we have this year over last year and the increase in independents has
something to do with it,” commented Kleeberg. “But the major problem is the number of cafeteria users who have classes
at 12:00.” At least two-thirds of the total group of meal-ticket holders must go to class at noon, he explained.
This leaves only the time from 12:50 until the cafeteria lines close at 1:30 for these students to eat, while
the other third of the students have from noon until 12:50 to eat themselves. The number of students eating right
at 1 p.m. is, according to Kleeberg, due to the fact that “most students are hungry and eat as soon
as they can.” Going to the union directly from class is more convenient for most, and thus the concentration of
cafeteria users occurs from 12:50 until around 1:10, and earlier, but less overwhelmingly, at noon. Expanding the time that the
lines serve is not the solution.

Taking into account the discrepancies in the suggested methods for implementation, Spencer agreed in principle with the SLC report. His
recommendations will now undergo discussion by the faculty and the student senate; recommendations will be prepared then for consideration by
the Board of Trustees when it convenes on October 16.

The traditional fraternity system has operated on a status of membership by invitation for 118 years. The only nominal change
in the system was the recent addition of “extended rush,” which was an attempt to increase the numbers in the
houses and to mollify the impact of rejection on freshmen who failed to receive a bid in rush. Spencer, himself
a former fraternity member at Davidson, believes that students today “do not feel the kind of loyalty and devotion that
was once characteristic of fraternity men.” He recognized the desirable features of fraternity life, including friendships formed, service activities, and
small group social functions. As he puts it: “To suggest that something different might be better does not imply that
fraternities are ‘evil.’”

Inside
Associate Editor Joe Smith analyzes student reaction to Spencer's fraternity speech on Page 2. Davidson basketball star Lester Strong takes
WBT mike, as reported on Page 7.

Editorials
Dick Anderson
Paul Rowland
