PARMAN EXAMINES P. E. PROGRAM (See Page Three)

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 22, 1970
NUMBER TWENTY-EIGHT

Frankly, this has not been our week. First, WDAV decided to go on the air, eliminating what was perhaps the
longest series of repetitive headlines in the history of the college. Then we find that persons unknown may actually be
plotting our demise. To them we can only say pooh, pooh. Come out in the open, and we will settle
this like gentlemen—over a cool beer and a wicked croquet match. (Staff Photos by Lyle)

Ravenel’s Play Approved, Restricted To Writing Class
By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

Despite fears of an adverse reaction from the Trustees and the Presbyteries of the church, a controversial play written by
Will Ravenel will be performed in Hodson Hall for members of Ravenel's creative writing class only. No date has been
set, but according to Ravenel, the actors have been ordered to go “ahead and memorize their lines.” The play is
built on the psychological problems a present-day Jesus would have adjusting to modern life. Ravenel added that Assistant Professor of
Drama Rupert T. Barber had previously declined to let it be staged there, although he said he personally liked it,
because he felt that adverse controversy would hurt the drama department.

Reportedly, Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston made the decision to allow Ravenel to produce the play. The general
public and students outside Charles Cornwell's English 170 class will not view the play. At a meeting of the Union
Board Monday night, the problem of whether to open the Morrison Room to the use of the players was debated.
Several members of the board, led by Terry Hirst, Cecil Burney, and Rich Cowart, expressed their desire to prevent the
play from being censored.

C. Shaw Smith, director of the college union, expressed reservations about the play. He told the board that he had
nothing against the play itself, but that he feared that it might be misunderstood. Smith said he could not support
the play “the way it was presented, because it could be misunderstood among some constituents of the college that I
feel it's important to be considerate of. And if others have to answer for us, it’s only fair for them
to be a part of the decision.”

Board members Rich Cowart and Terry Hirst proposed a two-part resolution in favor of the play's being performed in the
Union. Hirst said at the meeting that the purpose of the resolution was to allow the Union Board to stand
in favor “and let the burden of rejection fall elsewhere.” The resolution stated that the Morrison Room should be available
to Ravenel, and that the Union Board would in no way “bar or censor” him, but also that the Union
Board was not a sponsor of the event, and that Union personnel would not be required to take part.

A second part of the resolution expressed general support of academic freedom at Davidson College “within the classroom and in
(the college's) public lectures, programs, and other productions.” The board passed both parts of the resolution, and voted to send
a copy of them to the President, the Dean of the Faculty, and the Dean of Students.

Asked what action he would take on the resolutions passed by the board, Smith said that he would like to
support them and that “I wish we could scrap the word veto.”

After three years of preparation WDAV will begin broadcasting at 2 p.m. today. The broadcasting system is known as a
“carrier current” system, which means that each building where the signal is to be received must be linked to the
central transmitter by a broadcast cable. But the station plans to begin immediately to work for a license from the
Federal Communications Commission to broadcast as a regular educational FM radio station, according to Ed Dobbs, station manager.

“On Friday we'll only be transmitting to Belk Dormitory,” Dobbs explained. “But we will have a direct hook-up to the
sound system in the College Union which will allow anyone who doesn't live in Belk to come over and listen
to our station.” He said that all other dormitories on campus would be able to receive the broadcasts by the
end of school, “hopefully before June.” Currently, the transmitter has 20 watts of power, enough for all the dormitories, and
broadcasts on a frequency of 640 kilohertz. Transmissions can be received about 100 feet out from each building, but cannot
be received anywhere off campus.

Plans for the radio station took formation in the fall of 1967, when Dobbs was named by the SGA to
investigate the possibilities of the station.

Senate Asks Class Break
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The SGA has petitioned the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) to suspend classes for three days next week so that students
can express their concern over recent developments in international policy and domestic unrest on the campuses. SGA President Ran Coble
met with the FEC yesterday to discuss three petitions.

Ombudsman Panel Would Settle Student Grievances

The student Senate is investigating the possibility of creating an ombudsman to facilitate the communication of student grievances in a
more organized and effective manner. “Ombudsman” is taken from the Swedish term for a public official who checks government activities
which may infringe on the rights of the individual, but the broader usage on American campuses refers to a qualified
student advisor on legal and business matters.

The plan at Davidson involves the appointment of two ombudsmen by the SGA from the student body who would act
to organize and channel student complaints into a common source. Every week a panel, composed of the two ombudsmen and
a representative from the faculty and the administration, would meet to discuss the grievances and to make recommendations through correct
channels.

The ombudsmen would have no policy-making powers nor would they be financed by student funds. Service would be strictly voluntary.
The ombudsmen would become ex-officio members of the Senate, but they would exercise no voting privileges. Their responsibility would center
chiefly around keeping the SGA informed of their activities and progress.

It has been suggested that Davidson College has enough options and open channels for student gripes as it is, and
the limited size of the institution makes such an office unnecessary. Freshman Bill Alexander, who has been working on this
project for the Senate, believes the ombudsman can benefit students at Davidson by sounding out the general campus feeling on
certain questions.

Alexander sees the advantage of the ombudsman in his ability to act more quickly and efficiently than other groups, such
as the ad hoc committees which spring up constantly. He remarked that faculty members may also petition the Ombudsman Panel
with any grievances they may have. Alexander added that College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. supports the idea all the
way, and that he is open to any recommendations.

There are 125 colleges across the United States which now have an ombudsman, and his status ranges from a lawyer
paid by student funds to a professor offering practical advice. The ombudsman has been a popular innovation, especially on large
campuses, where administrative errors are difficult to trace. The liberal student body president at N. C. State University is pushing
for an ombudsman on that campus next year. Stonybrook College in New York, with an enrollment of 8,000 students, employed
an ombudsman who discovered so many flaws in the administration framework that classes were suspended three times.Days to completely restructure
the school were adopted by the SGA in its meeting Wednesday night. The FEC is expected to act on the
requests today. The first proposal, presented by Bobby Allen, asks that the faculty encourage individual professors to work with their
classes to make arrangements for the rest of the year which would permit students to participate in extra-campus activities regarding
the Cambodian involvement and nationwide student protest of the war. Allen believes this approach is advantageous because it is in
accordance with the policy of the faculty to leave most of the decisions concerning classes to the discretion of the
individual professors.

The second proposal was submitted by Cecil Burney for Robert Pyeatt, and it calls for the moratorium on classes, May
27-29, for the same reasons. The last petition, proposed jointly by Danny Clodfelter and Cecil Burney, suggests that the SGA
be allowed to keep the American flag on campus lowered at half-mast for the rest of the year in recognition
of the student deaths at Kent State and Jackson State.

The SGA has also planned a survey of opinion in the student body and the Davidson community. Three statements will
be circulated: One denounces U.S. policy over the war, another supports passage of the Cooper-Church Amendment, now pending in the
U.S. Senate, and the last one expresses confidence in the actions of President Nixon. The petitions will be collected and
sent to Sen. George McGovern, where they will be forwarded to senators still uncommitted on the issue.

Belk Dormitory: A radio station at Davidson. By the spring of 1968, he had a staff of several dozen students
making preparations. “But when the fall came, the high costs of beginning as an FM station became apparent,” Dobbs said.
After financial appeals to several foundations failed, the decision was finally made in the spring of 1969 to begin as
a carrier current station and apply for an FM license later. “More than any other individual, Skip Smoak is responsible
for our being able to broadcast at this time,” Dobbs said. Smoak is a junior from Charlotte. Other students integral
in the organization are Dave Stimpson, Eddie Webb, and Scott Keeter. Earl W. Lawrimore, director of the college news bureau,
and Grover C. Meetze Jr., director of the physical plant, are staff advisors.

WDAV Begins With Program DJ: Hugh Marr is ON THE AIR service to Belk dorms test program to Belk dorm.

EPC Debates How To Mix Honor System With Self-Scheduled Exams
By RICH WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Can the honor system bear the strain of self-scheduled exams? This will be the question which the Educational Policy Committee
(EPC) will consider next Monday. According to Danny Clodfelter, student representative on the EPC, the faculty EPC members feel that
the adoption of self-scheduled exams will increase reliance on the court as well as cause administrative difficulties for it. “The
main issue which the faculty must decide is not only the self-scheduled exam proposal itself, but also the condition of
the honor system as a whole,” said Clodfelter.

Both old and new members of the Honor Court have testified at EPC meetings in the past two weeks in
order to express their feelings on how the proposal will affect the Honor System. “The Honor Court members said they
felt that doubts about the proposal could be rectified by the actions of an aggressive court as well as a
good selling and education job among the student body,” he said. “The basic concern of the faculty, however, is the
exchange of information between those who take the same exam at different times. The problem seems to rest on whether
the students are concerned enough to make the honor system work,” he said. “I hope that at Monday's meeting we
will reach consensus on the honor system and its relation to the self-scheduled exam proposal.”

Former Honor Court Chairman Ken Crews expressed his favorable outlook on the self-scheduled exam proposal. “I feel this would be
good for the honor system,” he said. “It would increase the responsibility of the court as well as that of
the students. I feel this would be a healthy development for the campus.”

Three-Day Next Week
CO-SPONSORS
Senators Burney (l.) and Clodfelter (r.) deliberate on wording of flag-lowering resolution.

Wackman, Sengel Organize ROTC Protest For Tuesday
Freshmen David Sengel and John Wackman have sent a letter to Colonel Virgil P. Foster, professor of military science, notifying
him of their intention to “stage a peaceful demonstration near the ROTC drill field,” on Tuesday. “We are calling for
a student boycott of ROTC drill on that day,” the letter said. “The purpose (of this demonstration) is to express
our increasing concern over the national administration’s policy of war.” Although the letter does not explicitly state that they would
like to hold the demonstration inside the gates of the drill field, Wackman said that was the intent. “If they
won't let us in through the main gates, we'll find some other way to get in,” he said.

Both Sengel and Wackman said they have been talking to ROTC students asking them to consider the boycott. They also
said they hoped some would drop out of the ranks during the drill. “Since federal inspection will be held on
that day, we want to impress the high government officials that there are students here at Davidson, many ROTC, who
object to the war,” said Wackman.

Sengel said that they sent the letter to Foster because they felt “that was the courteous thing to do.” “We
aren't trying to pull a surprise attack or make it look like we're battling them,” said Wackman. “We just want
to have a silent demonstration to express our objections. All those who want peace will be there.” The letter said
that the demonstration’s purpose was not “to interfere with the ROTC program or infringe upon the rights of any members
of this academic community.”

“If the honor system does truly work, self-scheduled exams shouldn't strain it too much. And if the system fails, then
we'll have to find something to replace it.” Crews said that he saw no reason why the honor system should
not be challenged. “Although I think we need to take the risk,” he said, “in my opinion, I don't think
the honor system will have trouble surviving.” Concerning the doubts of the faculty, Crews said that “they were afraid of
the added burden which would be placed on the students given the opportunity and the pressure. However, this can only
be applied to a minority of the student body,” he said.

Students Vote For Early Exam
A recent questionnaire concerning an academic calendar for the 1970-71 school year received only a 49% response from the freshman
and sophomore classes. However, the results show a marked preference for having the final spring term exam fall on or
before June 1st. Second in preference was the desire for a long spring break, of at least one week. The
questionnaire was divided into two parts. The first part asked for a numerical ranking in order of preference for six
suggestions such as “last exam by June 1st,” “long spring break,” and “avoid split winter term.” The second part listed
six possible 1970-71 calendar combinations, and again asked for a numerical preference ranking. The most preferred calendar combination, by quite
a margin, was the one including the last exam on June 1st, a long spring break, and a split winter
term. The questionnaire was circulated in response to a Faculty Executive Committee request. The results will undoubtedly be a significant
factor in its 1970-71 calendar deliberations.
