Page Six
September 25, 1970

Practice Starts For Baseballers
By JOE EARLE
Sports Writer

While Davidson's football team prepares for its entry into the public eye with the opener at Richmond next week, the members of the baseball team are also in the midst of their practice. Fall practice is a chance for the team recruits to show their prowess and for old members to prepare for training once again.

“Since we only have a few weeks of spring to prepare for the regular season, which will begin in the middle of March, we give the boys a chance to work out early in the fall. This practice will end sometime in October," Stevens said.

The team adds only four freshmen this year: Frank Williams, infield; Larry Ruddell, outfield; Frank Folger, first base, pitcher and outfield; and Alec “Hawk” Hoon. Few recruits were needed to fill the squad since they lost only one player last year. “We are a young team. Most of our boys are sophomores and juniors,” commented Stevens. That player was Gordon Slade, all-region outfielder who was offered a professional contract.

Harold Wilkerson will captain the team this year. Lead pitching spots will probably be held by Rick Pipan, Jim Case, and Mike Frye, according to Stevens. Lynn Wagner will likely be lead batter. Wagner hit .300 last year. Other returning starters include Randy Ely who is “very tough on defense” and Bob Meadows. Stevens will be assisted in fall training by Captain Halight, of ROTC, and Jack Burris of Davidson.

IMAC PREVIEW
Delts, Sigs Picked For Title
By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The IMAC unveiled its new look as the 1970 flickerball campaign got underway. This year there are two 9-team divisions, with freshmen competing against upperclassmen. Despite the wholesale changes, one thing remains the same: Phi Delta Theta (ho-hum) is the favorite. The Delts, winners of their last 36 games and champions the past two seasons, appear as strong or stronger than ever, and loom the overwhelming choice in Division A.

Division A
1. Delts (1969 record: 13-0)
Soph TB Bick Halligan must fill the shoes of graduated Bill Traxler, but he has great potential. Hamp Whittington and all-IMAC Gene Early at halfback, and ends Jack Steele and All-IMAC Jeff Chetwood are back to lead a potent attack. Safety Walter Sprunt, defensive backs Jim Wright and Hugh Gaither, and end Keith Onsdorff and Barden Cooke spearhead the defense. Top sophs besides Halligan include Mike Deese and Greg McCall.

2. KAs (8-4)
With more speed and some good sophs, the KAs hope to offset the loss of IMAC tailback Romey Fisher. Soph Bob Solberg inherits Fisher's post with all-IMAC Steve Williams and soph Sandy McLean at the halfbacks. Tom Jeter, Sammy Fisher, Charlie Terrell and Jim Crouse are other returnees. Other sophs expected to help are Daryl Williams, Jimmy Moye and Elliot Savage.

3. SAE (7-5)
Tailback Bob Meadows keys the SAE attack, with Roy Campbell, Armfield Cannon, Dave Faison and Charlie Pope back to help him. A host of sophs figure to see action, among whom are David Weaver, George Thomas, Tommy Reed, Dave Varner, Bruce Baird, Neil Trask and Newell Robinson. The E's are green, but have more depth and speed. A lot will depend on Meadows.

4. ATO (3-9)
The Taus have a veteran ballclub and should be vastly improved. The offense is led by TB Chipper Jones, halfback Doug Hickman, and receivers Mort Chiles, Reeves Louthan and Jim Hawkins. Bill Sherwood, Roger Mills and Jim Roy are on the defense. Top sophs are Rhett Talbert, Mitchell Johnson, Kent Breard and Joel Bradley.

5. Sigma Chi (5-7)
The Machis hope to right themselves after a lackluster campaign in 1969. Herb Clegg, John Saunders, Doug Haynes, Reif Kessler, Rick Weddle, Walt Walker, Adam Robinson and Jim Hudson are experienced seniors. Juniors Jack Latimer and Bob Randall return also. Lack of depth will hurt this squad. Sigma Chi must be rated a question mark.

6. Sigma Nu (6-6)
The Nus were hit hard by graduation and will depend mostly on sophomores. Walter McAlhaney, David Scarborough and Dick Morrison are top vets. Key sophs will be Skip Greathouse, Scott Beard, Charlie Davis and Jim Doss. A rebuilding year for the Nus.

7. Pi Kaps (0-12)
The much-maligned Pi Kaps are banking on several good sophs to lead them out of the doldrums, and could surprise. Zack Mobley, Frank Kirtley and Tom Sinks are the top players back, but sophs Pat Curley and Ron Altman appear to be the team leaders. Jimmy Hunter, Jim Thompson, Phil Drake and Clint McCann are other newcomers heavily counted upon.

8. East II and Cannon II
The two freshman teams will be woefully inexperienced, and are unknown quantities at this time.

(Photo by Lyle)
FAGG PONDERS WILDCATS’ CHANCES
Dave Fagg and Jim Smith take a critical look at the squad as they prepare for Richmond.

Division B
1. Kappa Sigs (6-6)
The Sigs should be vastly improved, with what may be the most talented team in the IMAC. They open with Bill Barnhill at TB, all-IMAC Dave Russell and Ben Lacy at the halfs, and Frank Clark and Paul Whetsell at the ends. Cooper Geraty, Billy Mohr and Bryan Peterson are other stalwarts. Sophs Randy Webster and Pete Jorgensen add depth.

2. Pikas (10-2)
Another strong, experienced team. Blair Abee is the TB, and a good one. Ray Swetenberg and Mark Affeldt were all-IMAC as rusher and receiver, respectively, in 1969. Floyd Strand at linebacker, along with George Graff, Allen Woodward, Steve Roady, and Clay Dorminey are back. Top sophs include Pete Spink and Frank Smith.

3. SPEs (8-4)
All-IMAC performers Buzz Tarver at TB, Jim Cantrell at HB, and Dave Shepler at OHB lead the Sig Eps, who rely on quickness and speed but lack depth. Wade Shepherd, Bill Youkey and Phil Croy are experienced players. Sophs to watch are Larry Duncan, Rob Krebs and Eddie Johnston.

4. Betas (6-6)
Probably the fastest team in the IMAC.

Gatorade Girls Brighten Practice, Treated As Just ‘One Of The Boys’
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

Imagine running at a swift pace for five grueling, undulating and totally exhausting miles and reaching the end of this run gasping for breath. What more could one ask for than to be greeted by an attractive, smiling girl and a cool cup of Gatorade? For the members of the cross country team, that’s what they find awaiting them at the close of their rigid training sessions. The feminine touch is provided by two coeds who are participating in the exchange program involving Davidson and several girls’ schools.

Tall, blonde Karen Quant from Randolph-Macon and Carter Moffett from Mary Baldwin are serving as assistant managers of the team this season. As Karen described her work, “the boys really seem to appreciate our fixing the ‘green stuff’ for them to drink after their workouts.” She jokingly remarked that the soccer team was becoming envious.

Explaining her reasons for taking the job, Karen remarked that she was interested in taking a sailing course in P.E. and was talking to Coach Sterling Martin about the matter. “Ran Coble came by us and asked if I would be a manager. I thought he was joking, but the next day I found out he wasn’t.”

Karen’s primary task is secretarial work, which involves keeping records of runners’ times and their distances and doing other paperwork for Coach Martin. Carter, an attractive blonde who began helping Karen this week, noted that an important job is “keeping up with how many blisters they get.” She also commented that “it’s great to be out here and able to watch everything, like cross country, soccer and football.”

Each girl expressed quite an enthusiasm for Davidson and for its sports program. Karen commented that she had “gotten to know lots of people in the athletic department,” while Carter added that “there wasn’t even a field at Mary Baldwin.”

Coach Martin has been well pleased with the female assistants. “They have given the guys an emotional lift, and we try to treat them as ‘one of the boys’.” Noting their limitation to clerical work, Martin jokingly stated that “the girls haven’t given any rubdowns yet.” From the eagerness of the team members to climb the final hill of the course, it is apparent that the initiative of the young ladies has been greatly appreciated.haps they have opened an additional outlet to the proponents of Woman's Liberation.

Wildcats Hunt ‘Quail’; Season Opens

By ERNIE SHIPE
Sports Editor

The Wildcats intend to go “quail-hunting” this weekend. The “Quail” is better known as Charlie Richards who operates the Richmond offense. Davidson will also be out to answer many other questions when they meet the Spiders at eight o'clock tomorrow night at Richmond City Stadium.

The Spiders tied the Wildcats for the Southern Conference Championship last year as each team finished with 5-1 records. In their 1969 meeting, the Wildcats finished on top, 37-7. Richards is kindly called “Quail” by his teammates for his love of hunting and fishing. He also loves to throw a football and does it well.

In the league, Betas need only staying power to rank with the best. TB Jay Bowen, halfback Tommy Richardson, and end John Douglas are top stars. Henry Marrow and Steve Engstrom on offense, and Jimmy Trussell and Trip Adams on defense lend experience. Randy Ely, Bill Burwell and Harry Lankanau head a good crop of sophs.

5. Phi Gamms (4-8)
The Gamms have more experience this year but lack the speed to be big winners. TB Scott Nicholson, Ed Dietrich, Roy Lane and Graham McGooghan are capable performers, going both ways. Sophs who will help are Peter Morgan, David Wymer and Bruce Batten.

6. Indies (3-9)
As usual, an unknown quantity. Jim Trevathan, John McCammon, Charlie Ralston, Don Parman, Mike Hyrne and transfer Scott McMichael will all play, and depending on who else does and how well the Indies can organize themselves, they could be pretty good. Past experience, though, makes them more likely sixth or lower.

7. East 1, Cannon 1 and Watts-Belk
These teams do not have enough experience to compete on an even basis, but they may surprise. A completely unknown quantity, but most likely seventh through ninth.

The Spider's most He wound up the season as the No. 5 offensive player in the nation with 2,665 yards and responsible for 24 touchdowns. “Richards is extremely quiet but has a great deal of inner confidence in his own ability,” said Offensive Backfield Coach Jim Tait. “He knew he could do the job when a lot of people questioned it. He probably has the finest throwing arm we've had here at Richmond with the ability to make the great throw.”

The 6'3", 198-pound senior from Miami, Florida passed for 327 yards in his first two games, connecting on 3 of 67 passes. The Spiders won their opener, 21-6, from North Carolina State but lost last week to West Virginia, 49-10.

Coach Dave Fagg agrees that Richmond has an excellent ball club. “They played an impressive first half against West Virginia, playing them even the entire half.” Tomorrow's contest will be Fagg's initial trial as Davidson’s head coach. It will also be the first time the Wildcats show off their new wishbone offense. Another question to be answered is how Fagg can accommodate the loss of five All-Conference selections.

The Wildcat secondary is faced probably with its toughest assignment of the season tomorrow night. This is one of Davidson's strongest areas and will be severely tested as Richards throws to Jim Livesay. Livesay snared 13 passes for 137 yards in the Spider's first two games. Buddy Woodle, Frank Mauro, and Frank Olepack will also test the Wildcat’s defense. Woodle has been an impressive runner this season. Against North Carolina State the junior tailback rushed for 104 yards.

The defensive unit was hit by a rash of injuries last week but Fagg sees everybody prepared to go except Woody Montgomery who is sidelined with a broken arm. Junior Joe Poteat will start at Montgomery's middle linebacking position.

Davidson's offense will be up against a Richmond defensive unit that was 13th in the nation last season. Spider defenders have been successful as they have already allowed their opponents to rush for 640 yards in two contests. Mark Thompson will test his arm against a tough secondary that has only allowed 140 yards per contest. Ray Easterling is a good bet to win All-Conference honors at cornerback. Easterling will be joined at cornerback by Wayne Tosh while Pete Roscia and Bobby Duch will open at safeties.

The Spider defensive line is anchored by two All-Southern tackles, Bruce Kasarda and John Barelli. At ends, Richmond will open with Pat Morris and Tom Duerr. Russ Croom should open at middle guard while the linebacking duties are left to Jeff Hanson, Larry Peterson, Pochucha, and Chuck Hall.

Offensive tackle Bill Fazioli is the outstanding face in the offensive line. The 235-pounder is complemented by Brian Britton, Mark Skinner, Harry Norris, and Bob Conrad. Although Richards prefers to throw to Livesay, Richmond is blessed with two other fine wide receivers in Jerry Haynes and Carl Wood. Haynes also specializes in kick returns while Wood is an All-American trackman.

TENNIS TRYOUTS
Coach Harry Fogleman has announced that tennis tryouts will be held on Monday, Sept. All interested students should report to the courts by two o’clock.

Dismal Season Ahead
By PETER MICHAEL
Sports Writer

Crippled by the loss of many key players, the 1970 soccer team faces the prospect of a dismal season. The main problem facing the team will be inexperience at nearly every position. The transfer of players to other schools and the loss of several players to the Junior Year Abroad Program have left Coach Harry Fogleman with a very slim chance of matching last year’s 4-7-1 record.

The team's greatest loss will be that of All-South wing Roger Peterson, who elected not to play after returning from his year in France. Peterson said of his decision, “It takes up too much time, and I realized that there are other things more important. I still enjoy kicking the ball around, but I'm not so sure I enjoy competition.” Fogleman blamed Peterson's year abroad for his change in attitude. “It seems that the boys who go to France come back and don’t want to play, but those who go to Germany come back eager to play.”

This season, Steve Culbertson, Charlie Heiner, and Ed Galloway have gone abroad. Heiner’s absence leaves the team with no goalie. In addition, Cam McNair transferred to Georgia Tech, and Ramsey transferred to Duke. Dick Allison and Richard Cowart, counted on at fullback, are not returning.

Seniors Mike Taylor, John Bruner, Jack Caldwell, and Johnny Robinson, and junior Brian Tarr are the only experienced players remaining on the squad. Coach Fogleman’s hopes for a respectable season lie with the many unproven players on the team.

Soccer Schedule
Oct. 2 Methodist Fayetteville
Oct. 6 Pfeiffer Davidson
Oct. 9 Furman Davidson
Oct. 13 Appalachian Boone
Oct. 20 N.C. Wesleyan Davidson
Oct. 23 Belmont Abbey Belmont
Oct. 27 E. Carolina Greenville
Nov. 4 Jacksonville Davidson
Nov. 7 The Citadel Davidson
Nov. 10 Emory Davidson
Nov. 17 Guilford Greensboro
Nov. 21 Southern Conference Championship (to be determined)

Sporttopics
Jerry Kroll underwent knee surgery at Duke University Hospital for an injury incurred at the Carolina Cougar’s rookie camp at St. Andrews. Cougar officials reported that Kroll should return to the roster around mid-December. He is counted on heavily by the Cougars as they need a large, defensively aggressive guard.

Two other Davidson basketballers have reported to rookie training camps. Doug Cook has reported to Cincinnati while Mike Maloy has joined Pittsburgh of the ABA. Maloy scored six points in an exhibition against the Cougars Tuesday.

Former Davidson end, Mike Kelley was added to the Cincinnati Bengals 40-man roster last week. Kelley blocked a punt in the fourth quarter which set up a Bengal touchdown in their upset over the Oakland Raiders. The Bengal front office is uncertain whether he will be kept with the squad or sent back to the taxi squad for this weekend’s game.

Gordon Slade was released Tuesday night from the Baltimore Colts taxi squad. Earlier in September, Slade had been released only to be restored to the taxi squad.