us Page Four May 22, 1970 The Davidsonian

Up n’ Coming

Friday, May 22
2 p.m. Workshop on Courts
Saturday, May 23
Baxter Davidson Room
9 a.m. Area IV Examination Chambers
10 a.m. Youth Advisory Council Green Room
2 p.m. Area I Examination Chambers for Selective Service
8:03 p.m. Film: Morrison Room
Sunday, May 24
Film: “Daddy's Gone A Hunting”
12-Noon Youth Advisory Council Green Room for Selective Service
8:03 p.m. Film: Morrison Room
“Goal”
8 p.m. Student Art Show Cunningham
Monday, May 25
8:15 p.m. “Murder in the Cathedral” St. Albans
10 p.m. Open End Union
Conscientious Objection
10 p.m. Union Board Meeting Blue Room
Tuesday, May 26
10 a.m. Brooks Hays Lecture Morrison Room
1 p.m. Brooks Hays Lecture Morrison Room
2 p.m. Political Science Discussion Green Room
7:30 p.m. South Asia Program Choral Room
8 p.m. Fields, Chaplin, etc. Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. “Murder in the Cathedral” St. Albans
10 p.m. Political Science Discussion Green Room
Wednesday, May 27
2 p.m. Political Science Discussion Green Room
8:03 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room
“Me, Natalie”
8:15 p.m. “Murder in the Cathedral” St. Albans
10 p.m. Political Science Discussion Green Room
Thursday, May 28
9 a.m. Film: “Standing Room Only” 228 Chambers
11 a.m. Film: “Standing Room Only” 228 Chambers
8:03 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room
“Me, Natalie”
Friday, May 29
8:15 p.m. Chamber Music Recital Hodson
Saturday, May 30
9 a.m. Area II Exams Chambers
2 p.m. Area III Exams Chambers
8:03 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room
“Me, Natalie”

Senate Inaction Kills Hopes For Approval Of ‘Bill Of Rights’

AN ANALYSIS By GRAY WILSON Asst. Managing Editor

It appears that action on the ill-starred Student Bill of Rights has died this year in the Senate, and a
move to add it to the SGA Constitution will not be realized until next year. When the faculty ratified the
SGA Constitution last year, Article III, of the Bill of Rights, was tabled by objections to certain passages, and the
situation has yet to be reconciled. The bill includes several proposals centering around personal freedoms which relate to the academic
and non-academic life of the student. Reservations among some faculty members over controversial or ambiguous sections delayed consideration until last
fall, but the Senate passed over the problem to push other proposals. With the new administration, work on the bill
was revived under a Senate committee staffed by Cliff Duke, Alan Peterson, and Bob Edmonds. Duke, who heads the committee,
explains that the intent this year was “to sound faculty opinion to see if some of the initial objections raised
could be resolved.” He said the bill had also suffered this year because the senate had concentrated its efforts in
other areas. The first impasse arose over refusal by the faculty to allow student membership on a committee which arbitrates
matters concerning unfair grading. Duke stated that his committee would recommend the withdrawal of this particular item because the faculty
had warranted student trust. A second objection concerns the accessibility of student academic records. The section is misleading, but records
are open to anyone on request at present. Duke said the passage would be modified to give the student immunity
in cases where the college is not involved and to notify him in advance if his record is to be
checked for academic reasons. “The wording is vague and ambiguous, and some guidelines need to be provided.” The last reservation
deals with a section which forbids a professor from disclosing political beliefs or activities.

SGA Study Seeks Change For Laundry, Union, Store

By JEFF ALLENDER Staff Writer

An SGA Senate committee has recommended some changes in the operation and policies of the College Union, the Student Store
and the laundry. The committee, composed of Cecil Burney, Charlie Ralston and Gerry Bello sought to find out “where the
money is going” and to find any places where services could be improved.

LAUNDRY
“Basically, we find that the policy which Manager C. W. Stacks relates to us regarding laundry services rendered is basically
sound. “He says that it is the policy of the laundry to try to reduce the potential for shrinkage, to
add buttons where buttons became cracked or disintegrated, to press washed pants for free, and to do anything else that
is possible to provide any service which he can within the limits of the general laundry budget. “Although we agree
with this policy, we are not convinced that, in practice, the policy is fulfilled. We note that there are too
many complaints about laundry loss and damage done to items in the laundry. “We have also considered the laundry fee
which is currently charged. Next year the laundry fee will rise again. “Stacks mentioned that perhaps the laundry could discontinue
its wash-dry-fold operation if coin-operated machines were made available on campus. “Such an installation would cost the college, he estimates,
$25,000 in initial expenditures. “Under such a system, the laundry would be able to cut back its personnel and offer
shirt, sheet, and dry cleaning services.” The committee recommended: “A formal policy regarding garment loss and damage be made jointly
by the business office and the laundry manager in order to clarify the circumstances under which customers of the laundry
will be given refunds. “Studies should be continued by the Business Office and the SGA Senate regarding possible future installation
of washing machines available to students for doing their own washing and drying.”

BOOKSTORE
“Last year, a committee was appointed by the President composed of Professors Brinkley, Williams, Abbott, Bliss and two students to
review operations in the bookstore. Their recommendation was that the bookstore expand significantly (10,000 new titles) immediately. “Two ex-officio members
of the committee, Peter Nicholls and Robert Stephenson (of the business office), wrote a minority report in which they said
that such a move was impossible because of space, staff problems, etc. “The minority report was accepted by the President,
and a gradual phasing program was instituted. 1000 new titles were to be added this year. “Next year, Nicholls has
requested three more bookshelves and a work-study student to work on addition of titles alone. “He cites a lack of
room as a major impediment to more rapid expansion. “He states that the pool tables, owned by the Union and
operated by the store, take up too much room. “Taller shelving has been rejected because surveillance is needed to ward
off shoplifters. “We are concerned that the expansion of the bookstore is going too slowly. We recommend: “The cash register
be moved closer to one of the doors opposite the cafeteria, and the door on the side of Jackson Court
and the other door opposite the cafeteria be locked permanently. This would decrease shoplifting. “The Union is requested to remove
the pool tables from the store to some other suitable place as soon as possible in the future if space
is needed.”

Library Adds One To Staff

Miss Jane Williams, a reference librarian at the Public Library of Charlotte and Mecklenburg County, will become head of the
serials department of the Davidson library August 1. Her job will include responsibilities for the library's periodical and government documents
holdings, according to Chalmers G. Davidson, director of the library. Miss Williams graduated from East Mecklenburg High School in 1962,
Pfeiffer College in 1966, and received her M. S. in Library Science from UNC-Chapel Hill in 1967.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
RUSS MERRITT
STEVE ROADY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH
TOM VERNON

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
JOHN McLEAN

Sports Editor:
DON PARMAN

News Editor:
SCOTT DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Assistant Sports Editors:
ERNIE SHIPE
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Photographers:
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS

Staff Writers:
Jeff Allender, Bill Beckman, Bill Davenport, Bill Eskridge, John Fine, Dan Graham, Rick Hart, Don Hoyt, George Kaneklides and Tom
Sinks.

Sports Writers:
Howard Boyd, Rick Bush, Billy Cobb, Dick Downey and Charlie Terrell.As possible. Another concern of the committee, Bello said, was
the possibility that the profits of the store be returned to the students in terms of a discount or rebate.
The store shows a profit of $8,000 a year, mostly from “mug and beanie” sales.

STUDENT UNION

“We find the operation of the Union and the cafeteria to be relatively obscure from student view. Initial difficulty was
encountered in obtaining information, without some coercion, from C. Shaw Smith, and the figures we have on the cafeteria are
almost unintelligible.

“We are particularly concerned that the Social fee and programs fee be administered responsibly with student representation that is free
of control by anyone other than students. We recommend that all meetings of the Union Board and Social Council be
open and that the records of all Union expenditures be available to all students.

The passage is to be revised to permit the faculty to be open in cases involving common knowledge of a
student’s activities or beliefs. Otherwise, the ideas expressed by a student directly to the professor are to be in full
confidence. Thus the student would be free to express any ideas to his professor on political matters in full confidence.

BEFORE CAPACITY CROWD

Kent State professor analyzes nation’s need. Eyewitness At Kent State Warns People Respond Through Fears.

By STEPHEN ROADY
Associate Editor

Richard Taylor, head of the graduate studies program in political science at Kent State University, told a packed Morrison Room
audience Monday night that people today are reacting not to reality but to symbols. Taylor, an eyewitness to the shootings
at Kent, stated that there are two popular illusions relevant to the tragedy at Kent State. The first, he said,
is the idea that we live in a world in which there is a necessary relation between causes and effects.
He illustrated the absurdity of this belief by referring to Allison Krause and Bill Schroeder, two completely innocent students killed
at Kent State. The second illusion mentioned by Taylor concerned the idea that power controls. In reference to the Southeast
Asian situation, Taylor queried “since when has U.S. power resulted in any kind of control?”

Taylor argued that in order for student responses to be effective in light of this disintegration in communication “meanings have
to be built upon the relationships established between human beings.” “Involve yourself in political action,” he said. “This isn’t something
that you do this summer, or hopefully for two weeks this fall. It’s an ongoing thing.” He added that students
should direct their campaign toward the focal point of the problem — the Congress and the Administration. “I have great
faith that the students can turn the political situation around. It is desperately important for students to do this,” he
said. “Some people say, ‘this is working within the system,’ but I’m not talking about systems,” continued Taylor. “I’m talking
about creating new values within the system. This is very difficult in a society which is in rapid transition. This
is the challenge — and action has to start now.” But he added that “the retreat into violence is a
cop-out. It is an approval of things as they are, because you are then saying that you agree with the
existing forms, only that you want your people in power.”

In response to questions after his talk, Taylor commented that as far as he could tell, the National Guard at
Kent State was subjected to nothing more violent than vile language and several thrown rocks. He was standing approximately two
hundred yards away when the shooting began, and he observed that he had heard no shots until the National Guard
opened fire.

EUROPE $239.00
June 12-Sept 8
NYC/Amst/NYC
VERY FEW SEATS
Remaining
For information
Call 919-933-5271 or write:
Betty Saunders
408 Connors
Chapel Hill, N.C.

MEET HERE:
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING
PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N.C.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Spaghetti — Salads — Choice Steaks

CLASS OF 1970
The Village Store

COLLEGE STUDENTS AND TEACHERS
COMPLETE SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
Choose Your Own Area:
Charlotte, Greensboro, Raleigh, Durham, Greenville, S.C., etc.
“Syntopicon” program needs intelligent, ambitious, and aggressive students and teachers who want to earn up to $300 a week. No
experience necessary. $500 merchandise bonus after 6 weeks employment.
For interview call Mr. Marrash 377-4973 or 377-4974
