The Davidsonian

"THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING." — Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

PAGE TWO JANUARY 23, 1970

One Last Shot

As we prepare for the advent of the new “editorial we” there still exists a tremendous desire to say something
about the Davidson image. So in this, the final editorial column of this editorship, we would like to offer a
few random comments concerning that image, as it concerns both administration and student.

Administration

There seems to be a rather awesome identity gap between the picture of the college as distributed by the administration
and the realistic view of the college. Maybe it is only our imagination, but we have been unaware of the
construction of any learning center and honors college, which the new catalogue of information on the school proudly describes to
prospective students. How strange it is to read about such a great development in the academic life of Davidson College
and not be able to find it.

To be sure, we are just as interested as the administration in making strong prospects apply to do undergraduate work
here, but unless we are rude, the disappointment which they might feel on arrival will do more harm than good.
Along these lines, it seems that it would be a good idea for admissions personnel to describe the life of
the Davidson student in terms of the present. It is difficult to determine the reality of Davidson during a recent
summary and aid the student in determining if Davidson really is his type of school.

The stress on academic relevance and progress should be increased, and an attempt should be made to view the changing
Davidson today, rather than the emphasis on historical traditions. The latter is fine in its place, but few students choose
on the basis of tradition. But the main emphasis should be on honesty and clarity, rather than a picture based
half on what Davidson might be.

Along similar lines, it would be wise for the administration to reconsider the little ‘good news’ sheet which it distributes
regularly to the alumni. It does serve the purpose of keeping the alumni aware of the activities of their classmates
and other alumni, but it fails miserably in giving the reader an accurate view of the college in its daily
existence. If we are going to tell about the new publications of faculty, new grants to the college, coming drama
productions, etc., let's not stop there. The needs of social reform, the need for coeducation, curricular reform, and increased financial
burdens should have their place as well. Without such inclusion in alumni bulletins, the alumni are unfamiliar with the college
situation and thus unprepared for the shock of such reports as came out of the Spencer Commissions.

If alumni had been familiar with the financial burdens of the current athletic programs, there would have been much less
outcry at the suggestion of desubsidization of football. If they had been told about student dissatisfaction over the present social
system and education by celibacy, there would have been less fire about the new recommendations for coeducation and social patterns.
If alumni had been aware of the crying needs of the area circling Davidson, they would have jumped at the
suggestion of extra-campus responsibility. But until the college assumes the proper role of informing its alumni about the needs and
failures of the institution’s multi-systemal operation, there will still be disbelief, discord, and dissatisfaction among this group.

At a time when communication between the student and his predecessors is at a critical point, the college cannot afford
failure in this area.

Students

It used to be that students at Davidson cared about image; it meant sure dates, sure graduate school acceptance, and
sure employment. But image seems to occupy a rather precarious position on the student checklist today, if it hasn't been
ditched altogether, and we aren’t so sure that this is good. Oh, it’s fine to ditch that old image of
Southern gentleman’s character, because that would be hypocritical. And it’s okay to drop the idea of Davidson being the best
party school in the area, because it no longer is. It isn’t even second.

No, sir. We’re doing away with all the images. From here on we're sticking to the real us. That's what
it’s all about. Reality. If people don't like us for what we are, there’s no sense in us fooling them.
We get into trouble selling the school for what it is not. This is not to suggest at all that
the image is more important than the substance underneath. What we are saying is that in all its quest for
real-being, something important has been lost — something which we need to relocate before it is gone for good.

There is a word for it, and as backwards as it may seem for saying it, the word is responsibility,
and along with it goes a related word, pride. There is something incredibly wrong with the way progress has been
misused and abused at Davidson. It is evident in the lack of regard for the Code of Responsibility. Whether there
are fallacies in the code should not be the controlling factor in behavior concerning it. If there is something wrong
with it, change it. But it is wrong to disregard it, to cast it off at will. The privileges of
the code — the drinking, the open dorms, and the rest — imply responsibility which, quite frankly, has not been
met.

Another responsibility which has been quite childishly thrown out is the responsibility to one’s fellow students. This is inherent in
the freedoms of the code. Open dorms open the gate to parties, but not parties which are so loud that
they violate the right of others for quiet. Drinking is a privilege which also implies a responsibility to see that
it does not lead to injury or harm of other students. Laugh at the “Davidson gentleman” tradition. At times the
phrase has indeed been ridiculous when used to describe the actions of some students. One need only look at the
two coarse and unnecessary cheers at a recent home basketball game to see how childishness leads to “red-neck” behavior and
anything but the attitude of the so-called gentleman.

There is something wrong with this basic attitude of indifference toward others which seems to have become so popular of
late. It is present from fraternity balling sessions right on down to the volume of a stereo — this lack
of responsibility. If we are going to do away with the image so as to expose the reality that is
Davidson, let’s not lose sight of the basic rights and responsibilities which the system grants and demands. If there be
any pride in the school, any interest in the students, let it manifest itself now — before decay overwhelms it.

Universities Offer More Environment Programs

AN ANALYSIS By STEVE CROSS Asst. Copy Editor

As a part of the continuing effort of higher education to make itself relevant to current problems in the outside
world, many colleges and universities around the nation are adapting their curricula to offer courses and programs in ecological problems.
Many of these courses are interdisciplinary. At the University of California at Irvine, a 20-lecture course was organized last year
entitled “Population! The Vital Revolution.” The lectures were given by faculty members, community leaders, politicians, and students, who analyzed the
problem from scientific, social, aesthetic, and engineering angles. Meanwhile, at San Diego State College, a course in “systems ecology” has
been developed, which will harness the talents of the computer to analyze environmental data. This will be a three-year program
including statistics courses, environmental...

Student Behavior At Movies ‘Poor’

To the Editor:

Tonight I attended the presentation of three New Line Cinema films at Love Auditorium. The creators of these movies were
honestly attempting to present their ideas in new and unorthodox ways. Each movie was disturbing in its own way and,
for the thoughtful viewer, raised pointed questions. I do not intend, however, to criticize these films further. My intent is
to bemoan the adolescent behavior of some of the audience. Particularly during “Ombre de la Pomme,” which variously portrayed the
rape of Leda by Zeus in the form of a swan with abstract imagery, many of them came only because
the advertisements hinted at bare breasts. The life of the cloister can’t make us that desperate, can it?

Larry Bostian ‘73
Davidson Collegestudies courses, a special research project, and work with computers. Three other North Carolina institutions have formed a consortium
to study ecology and pollution control—Duke University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and North Carolina State University.
They will exchange faculty members, information, and facilities, and they all plan advanced courses in air pollution. The involvement of
academia in the environmental crisis is an omen for good and ill. “I see everything from enabling legislation to sabotage
in the minds of my students,” says one professor. “I hope we can find a middle ground."

WE NEED A NEW PIVOT AROUND WHICH TO ORIENT CAMPUS LIFE... SOMETHING OPEN TO EQUAL PARTICIPATION

SEX! PROFESSOR SPEAKS — CORNELL

In the current academic year, many colleges and universities are setting up Black Studies programs for the first time. So
far, there has been a recognition by most that a need for these studies exists, but no clear philosophy of
Black Studies has been accepted as authoritative. Reprinted in this issue are excerpts from James Turner's report to President Dale
R. Corson of Cornell University on the goals of the University's Africana Studies and Research Center, of which Turner is
the director.

The Africana Studies and Research Center approaches the controversial and highly significant issue of Black Studies in America with five
basic assumptions. They affect the character of all that we do and all that we plan to do in the
area of Black Studies. These are the assumptions:

1. That Black Studies is a field still being born. This is not to deny the existence of significant, and
often unappreciated, work related to Black Studies that has already been done, but it does deny the fact that there
is any clear understanding of the specific ways in which a profound mining of the Black experience challenges and transforms
the basic educational structures of the nation.

2. That the establishing and defining of the field of Black Studies stands logically as a task and a challenge
for Black people in America and elsewhere. Others may be called upon for assistance, but the initiative must be ours.

3. That the Center and its counterparts on other campuses are in an excellent position to play a central role
in defining the field and creating some of the models so urgently required.

4. That a unified, rather than a conventionally under-academic-discipline-bound, approach to the creation of Black Studies is not only desirable,
but absolutely necessary.

5. That a serious building of this field is the task of years, and not a makeshift program for a
few persons to do in several weeks or months.

Basic Program Elements:

1. Serious research in many areas of historical and contemporary Black existence that have been either ignored, or only superficially
explored (e.g., Social Structure in the Black Community, Comparative Black Urban Development in the New World, Comparative Slavery).

2. The encouragement of those creative artists who are searching for the meaning of a Black aesthetic, who are now
trying to define and build the basic ground out of which Black creativity may flow in the arts.

3. Continuous research on those contemporary political, economic, and social policies that now shape the life of the Black community
in America and that determine its future.

4. Constant interaction with the surrounding Black community, and openness to the possible input from that community into the development
of Black Studies. It is clear that Black Studies cannot really be developed unless we understand more fully both the
unique and common elements of our experiences in the Black diaspora. The two-sidedness of the meaning of certain selected foci
of Black Studies experience is essential and must be encouraged.

5. The development of new materials for and new approaches to the teaching of the Black experience, which must grow
out of laboratory situations at every grade level.

6. The training of a constantly expanded cadre of persons deeply immersed in the materials, methods, and spirit of Black
Studies, who can help supply the tremendous demands for personnel in a variety of formal and informal teaching environments. The
development of new materials, methods, and curriculum for the teaching of Black children.

7. The creation of consortium models which make possible the constant interaction of Black students and the Black diaspora.

8. The gathering and consolidation of those library and archival resources which will facilitate the development of Black Studies as
it proceeds towards definition.

9. The establishment of good contacts with publishing enterprises, which will not only make available the results of the experimentation
and study of the Center, but which will also encourage that increasing number of authors and researchers who wish to
present their work from the heart of a Black matrix.

10. The gathering, cataloging, and critical analysis of those Black Studies programs and personnel already developed across the nation, so
that we may begin with a fuller sense of direction, possibilities, and problems.
