Page Four March 6, 1970 The Davidsonian

Green Plays Lead In ‘David And Lisa’

A REVIEW By DAN GRAHAM

“David and Lisa” had only four actors; the set wasn't much to look at; the lighting effects were minimal; and the story was simple. But the play, as the chalk on the blackboard said, told it “PLAIN STRAYT.”

William Green carried the lead magnificently as David, a high-strung paranoid young man, groping his way toward human warmth. With each scene he has made some slight, almost imperceptible change toward his goal. The tense rigidity of his posture and delivery is softened vaguely and his defensiveness alleviated by a touch of humor in the third scene. He takes a cautious interest in Lisa (Nancy Smith), a 16-year-old schizophrenic. The girl expresses herself in childish rhymes in her personality as Lisa, and as her self, Muriel, she writes on the blackboard.

The blackboard is ingenious. In a brilliantly conceived sequence, as the interest in David's chess game on the opposite side of the stage dies away, Lisa pieces together the parts of her life on the blackboard. Another device is “Lisa Muriel same.” She draws lines between the names, joyously blocks in “ME,” then rushes off stage.

Alan Baragona played the understanding psychiatrist Alan with skill, displaying an easy maturity, and Robert Wright was competent as John the therapist. But the show was really Green's. He showed such a sense of timing in his portrayal and such magnetism, that indeed he retained the audience’s attention at times when Lisa should have held it.

The adaptation from Isaac Rubin's novel by William Green and Jack Hartman is excellent. The dialogue is never forced, the direction is consistent, and even Alan seldom seems to editorialize. Best of all, the treatment is well adapted to the length of the play. The staging is for the most part effective. And the ending is superb. It is not extravagant, merely the couple's hesitant reaching to clasp hands, David's struggle to control his convulsions, and their restrained satisfaction at watching the falling rain together.

Open (Continued From Page 1)

conditions and at times which are prescribed by the faculty, administration, and the appropriate student organization. The RHA states: The RHC, with the advice and consent of the Senate and Faculty Student Life Committee, may agree upon such regulations governing residence hall life as they deem wise, so long as such regulations do not conflict with the Constitution.

"They Shoot Horses" Asks

A REVIEW By DON HOYT

The question is: Do you want to play the game? The question is asked by “They Shoot Horses, Don’t They?”

The players in the game are: Gloria (Jane Fonda), an embittered young woman; Robert (Michael Sarrazin), a well-meaning, hapless young man; Alice (Susannah York), a beautiful but pathetically untalented aspirant to Hollywood stardom; Sailor (Red Buttons), an old hand at playing the game, brought down in the end by his age; and Rocky (Gig Young), the team physician, coach, referee, scorekeeper, banker, and announcer.

The conceit is this: the world is a marathon dance, all of the dancers at first struggling to win, but most giving up or collapsing long before achieving success at the end. What is the prize for the winner of the game? $1,500; which may not sound like much, but in 1932, during the middle of the Depression, $1,500 was worth considerably more than most of the things for which people kill themselves today.

A tawdry waterfront ballroom in Santa Monica, California, provides the perfect setting for this parable about life, even to the rotating tin globe which hangs high above the dance floor. Within the confines of this gymnasium-like hall, the players spend literally two and metaphorically their entire lives. They are checked in at the dance until the siren signals a rest period, collapse in their dormitories, are called back all too soon by the siren, and rise to dance some more. Substitute a bell for the siren, exchange Davidson for 50 million, and you have America.

As in Horace McCoy’s 1935 novel upon which the movie is based, the idea of the correspondences is perfectly conceived and carried out; but by itself, it wouldn't make a film. From the moment Gloria appears, however, we know that there is going to be something of substance here, the development of some character who will hold our attention.

A series of flash-forwards whet the interest of the audience by showing, before the end of the movie, what happens after the end of the movie. In the first, highly stylized cut, Robert is thrown into jail, but we don’t realize that this interpolated scene is a preview of the future, considering it rather another part of Robert’s past. In the following sequence, though, time-oriented in “Yowsah! Yowsah! Yowsah! Ladies and Gentlemen, another sponsor has come forth for one of these fine young couples, couple number 67.” When the camera pans across the dance floor to Robert and Gloria, wearing sweatshirts that have “Jonathan’s Iron Tonic” emblazoned on the back, we realize that what we thought was a flashback was instead a flash forward. Robert was thrown into jail wearing that same sweatshirt.

The ultimate magnificence of “They Shoot Horses” is that Gloria—hardened, cynical, wise-in-the-way-of-the-world Gloria—becomes disillusioned. The audience can easily accept frail Alice’s breakdown, or the simple giving up of the naive dancers who had entertained rash hopes of winning the $1,500. But when Gloria realizes that she has been duped, when she sees the truth of the game—Gloria, who, we have thought, knows life for what it is—we ALL feel sick to our stomachs. The final irony of the movie kicks us right in the gut, like finding out that we, the audience, as well as Oedipus, have been blind and are to be exiled by our own decree. It is not unlikely that at least one person will blow his brains out after seeing “They Shoot Horses,” so perfect is its presentation of the game theory of life.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors: JOHN FINE, RUSS MERRITT, STEVE ROADY, PAUL ROWLAND, JOE SMITH
Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT, JOHN McLEAN
Sports Editor: DON PARMAN
Copy Editor: STEVE CROSS
News Editor: NEIL COGHILL
Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE
Circulation Managers: HOWARD RAMAGLI, GREG SCOTT
Assistant Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD WILSON
Assistant Business Manager: TED HEEFNER
Assistant Sports Editors: ERNIE SHIPE, A. W. TURNER
Photographers: SAM RAMACHANDRAN, GEORGE THOMAS
Cartoonists: TERRY HIRST, CULLUM ROGERS
Assistant Copy Editor: SCOTT DAVIDSON
Contributors this week: Rick Bush, Howard Boyd, Rick Hart, Don Hoyt, and Dan Graham.life. If, indeed, the world is a pointless, prizeless, painful game, better to end our miserable existence now than to extend the agony. Let’s avoid all useless misery. After all, they do shoot horses, don’t they? The positive function of the film is that it forces us to say, “The question is not ‘Do you want to play the game?’; it is ‘Is it a game?’” The answer which we have to give is no. There is something outside the game, something the rules don’t take into consideration, which makes it all worthwhile. This something may be found in religion or in the search for truth of the community. “They Shoot Horses” is a sunset over the Pacific.

DON’T TOUCH ME
Photo by Paranoiac Bill Green
David and Lisa: Bill Green admonished therapist Bob Wright in ‘David and Lisa.’

Luncheon Commemorates ROTC’s 50th Anniversary
A luncheon to commemorate fifty years of ROTC at Davidson was held last Thursday, with Major General Benjamin F. Evans, the Deputy Commanding General of the Third Army, and numerous dignitaries from the Davidson community in attendance. At the luncheon, Chalmers G. Davidson presented a brief history of the military tradition at Davidson. He pointed out that the school is named for a famous General, and that students organized several Confederate companies during the Civil War. Davidson noted that the Student Army Training Corps was organized on campus in 1917, while ROTC itself was established during the 1919-1920 school year. He cited the many honors won by the school’s ROTC unit over the years, including the fact that Davidson produced six Generals in World War Two.

In his brief statement to the gathering, Major General Evans noted that ROTC has been under stress recently, mentioning a 31% drop in nationwide enrollment this year. He also observed that even a Vietnam pull-out and the possible institution of a voluntary army would leave a definite need for college-trained officers. In fact, General Evans said a voluntary army tends to become a mercenary army, and there would be even more need than there is now for educated army leadership in the event that such a program is put into operation.

Dorms Proposal
The administration believes that a proposal for 24-hour open dorms contradicts faculty and trustee policy. According to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr., unlimited hours “is at variance with past policy and past practice, specifically the policies of the faculty and the trustees.” The RHC position is that the open dorms proposal does not involve a change of policy and therefore should not require faculty or trustee approval. Cecil Burney, President of the RHC, says that he feels the SLC has been empowered to specify hours for dorms. In his view, the SLC is just as much within its rights to specify 24-hours as to specify three.

Former RHC President Tom Opie, who helped to write the RHA Constitution and who with Burney delivered the open dorms proposal to the SLC, expressed disappointment with the SLC’s adoption of the administration interpretation. Opie charged that the “reason for Spencer’s desire to take it to the trustees is his opposition to the proposal rather than that such a proposed change exceeds the authority of the SLC.” Commenting on Spencer’s statement (see story on Page One), Opie said that Spencer was overestimating the impact 24-hour open dorms would have on the “educational climate.” The next faculty meeting is scheduled for Apr. 7. The trustees meet on campus next Apr. 23 and 24. No details have been finalized for the presentation of the SLC proposal to the faculty.

OPEN HOUSE
The following homes will be open Sunday evening at 8: Brinkley 420 N. Main, Davis Lynbrook Drive.

‘Tar Heel’ Hassle Shakes Carolina
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill is embroiled in a tremendous controversy over whether to continue the compulsory student fees which make up over 30 percent of the income of the Daily Tar Heel, Chapel Hill's campus newspaper. The newspaper's critics charge that the paper prints left-wing editorials, obscenity, and one-sided news stories. State legislators, trustees, and students have all complained of this. Next month, 18,000 students at Chapel Hill will have a chance to vote in a referendum on whether to keep the compulsory contributions. 1,700 students have signed a petition calling for a vote on the question. University officials and Daily Tar Heel staff members generally feel that the paper would go under without the financial support of the compulsory fees. On the other hand, Journalism Professor Walter Spearman, who was editor of the Tar Heel in 1928-1929, feels that the paper has always been controversial and is today full of “good give and take” on the issues.

The Tar Heel was campaigning for integration of local theatres before the Supreme Court integration decision of 1954. More recently, the newspaper came under fire for its stand on the Speaker Ban Law, a statute that banned Communist speakers from the campus. The Tar Heel has consistently been one of the top 10 newspapers in the college field throughout its publishing history. Novelist Thomas Wolfe, author of “Look Homeward, Angel,” has been in the past. Other past editors include public opinion specialist Louis Harris, newscaster Charles Kuralt, former United Nations mediator Frank Porter Graham, Pulitzer Prize winners Horace Carter and Lenoir Chambers, New York Times Managing Editor Clifton Daniel, Wall Street Journal editor Vermont C. Royster, and former North Carolina governors J. C. B. Ehringhaus and Terry Sanford.

The present controversy was touched off by a four-letter word in a Tar Heel editorial which attacked state Sen. Edward Griffin of Franklin County for backing a bill which required students on university boards of trustees to take baths and get “businessmen's haircuts” before meetings. Several senators condemned the attack on “a fine man like General Griffin.” Sen. John Henley and Sen. Herman Moore, the latter representing Mecklenburg County, called for abolition of compulsory student fees to support the newspaper.

WANTED: Waiters, Waitresses, Barmaids, Lifeguards (preferably with W.S.I.) at Roaring Gap Club from Mid-June to Mid-Sept. If interested write: Mr. Warren Trembly, Club Manager, Box 266, Clemmons, N. C. or call 919-766-4069 after 7 p.m.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N. C.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
OWL'S LOUNGE
Located At Baker's Service Station
On Highway 115 Between Cornelius and Huntersville
BANDS FRIDAY & SATURDAY
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
Monday - Saturday 6 to 12 p.m.
Sunday 2 to 12 p.m.
HAPPY HOUR
Monday-Thursday 9:30 to 10:30 p.m.
Sunday 4 to 6 p.m.

Whenever young people talk about clothes, we keep our eyes and ears open. And we design the things you say into the clothes we make. That way, you can always be sure that we have the clothes you want to wear. 100% Cotton print permanently pressed Hondo® slacks, $5, Placket knit shirt, $6, Mr. Wrangler® Sportswear. Remember the “W” is Silent.

Belk Mooresville, N. C.
Belk Statesville, N. C.
Smithey’s Statesville, N. C.
Round-Up Troutman, N. C.