a

PASSING ON THE TORCH
(Staff Photo by Davidson)
Howard Boyd passes the baton to Stagg Newman in the Davidson Relays.

W. Georgia Takes Relays As Wildcats Finish

In a day of records, West Georgia held off Davidson and Appalachian to win the Davidson Relays in the final
event. On other fronts, the baseball and golf teams both played well but couldn't cash their play into wins.

Going into the two-mile relay, Davidson held a two-point edge over West Georgia, and Appalachian trailed by 6½ points. However,
the host Wildcats failed to tally in the last event, while West Georgia came home third to sew up the
championship with 51 points. Appalachian finished second with 48½ points on the strength of a second in the two-mile relay,
while Davidson had to settle for third with 47 points. Pre-meet favorite Western Carolina was a disappointing fourth, well back
with 39½ points.

West Georgia established new meet standards in the 880-yard relay (1:28.6) and the one-mile relay (3:19.3) and also captured the
440-yard relay in compiling their winning total. Other records were set in the shot put by Dave Taylor of Catawba
(51'9¾"), Ray Swetenburg of Davidson in the triple jump (47'8", also a school record), Distance Medley by Cumberland (10:18.7), and
the two-mile relay by Western Carolina (4:02.8).

Besides Swetenburg’s fine effort in the triple jump, Davidson also won the sprint medley in 3:31.1 (Tommy Richardson, Rick Lyon,
Whit Morrow, and John Puckett). The Wildcat thinclads picked up second in both the 440-yard and 880-yard relays, and garnered
third in the shuttle hurdle event. Steve Kirley was second in the shot put with a school record toss of
47'11¾", and also took fourth in the discus. Tom Rogers leaped 44 feet to grab third in the triple jump,
completing the ‘Cats scoring.

On the golf front, Dr. Tom Scott’s squad continued to find it difficult to find its way back to the
winning track. Last Saturday, N.C. State took their second of the year from Davidson as they scored a 14-7 win.
Powerful Wake Forest spoiled the Wildcats’ finest effort of the year with an 18-3 thrashing. Scott pointed to Danny White
as outstanding in the match with Wake. White halved the first nine with the Deacon's Lenny Wadkins, who competed in
the Masters tournament last year. In addition to Wadkins, the next two Deacons came in at three under and the
fourth man at four under.

The baseball team has had another up and down week. They stopped George Washington Tuesday behind Wade Shepherd's three-hitter but
fell to William and Mary 5-1. Stevens has been most pleased with the team’s hitting of late. “We're finally beginning
to hit the ball a little better. If the boys keep hustling the way they have been, we should have
a good chance at the games we have left.”

Falconi Signs Grant-In-Aid; Freshman Gridders Named

Both the Davidson football and basketball teams have some promising players on their way to bolster the fortunes of Wildcat
sports next year. Leading the list is the basketball team's second signee, John Falconi, a 6-5 forward from New York.
Falconi, who lives in the Bronx, nailed down all-state honors en route to a 26.5 scoring average for his Iona
Prep team. Formal acceptance is still pending. Falconi chose Davidson from over 150 offers. He made the all-city teams of
both the New York Daily and the New York Post. In addition to his scoring, he averaged 15 rebounds and
seven assists.

“This is one of the best things that has happened to us in a while,” said Davidson head coach Terry
Holland. “We've got to have a great recruiting year and players like John will make it one. We think he
will be a standout wing man for us.”

The football team is having a great recruiting season, according to head coach Dave Fagg. Fagg has announced a list
of 38 players who have been accepted and who will be coming to Davidson. “I think they could certainly be
as good as our freshman team was this past year. I’m not saying that they will be 4-1 or 5-0
or 3-2, but they have tremendous football potential. There is some size, some running ability, and some boys who can
catch a football,” Fagg said. “We're having an exceptional year when you consider the coaching changes we underwent in the
middle of the prime recruiting season.”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST Italian Food
Spaghetti — Lasagna — Pizza — Salads
STEAK
“La Roma Ristoranti”
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N.C.

PRESBYTERIAN NEXT TEST
The Davidsonian April 24, 1979

Peace Five Netters Stretch Winning Streak, Prepare For Southern Tourney

Coach Harry Fogleman and his tennis players are out to disprove the new adage that you can’t be a champion
without scholarships. The netters will take their perfect record to Presbyterian tomorrow for their last big regular season match. Fogleman
calls Presbyterian “one of the very best that we will play this year. They give scholarships and they have some
excellent players. They have two Czechs and a brothers from Chile. If we can beat them I think we have
a good chance to go undefeated.”

Wednesday, darkness halted play with Furman and resulted in a no match decision although Davidson led 4-3 at the time.
The match typified this year’s Davidson tennis team. Second court singles player David Weaver was sidelined with an ankle injury
so everyone but Randy Jones played up a court and the results demonstrated the depth of the squad. Bobby Koury
came from a 5-3 deficit on Furman's three serve to win a three-set match at second court. Jeff Dumansky and
Jim Cantrell added wins at three and four. Frank Dana, who is not a regular singles player, won a marathon
three-hour match at sixth court.

Fogleman is happy with the non-subsidized nature of the program. “It makes it much harder in that you have to
sell the boy on the college. We sell the idea that we have the best facilities in this part of
the country. We play an attractive schedule and the school provides us with an adequate budget for supplies and traveling
as well. I really enjoy it more as a coaching situation than with subsidized players. All the boys know that
they are receiving the same treatment. I think that this gives us a better team spirit.”is at first court, “All
subsidized teams have one real good subsidized player and the man catches every match,” said Fogleman. “He is making the
greatest sacrifice on the team. We win because of our balance. Weaver is a smart player. He doesn't have any
glaring weaknesses. His attitude on the court is his greatest asset. He is always cool. He analyzes his opponent and
goes to work. Koury is a hard hitter who hasn't learned to control the ball yet. Sometimes he tries a
harder shot than the situation calls for. Potentially he is one of our better players.”

New ‘Y’ Offense, Personnel Focus Of Spring Workouts

Even a championship team can make changes and the Wildcat football staff is planning to make several changes in their
plans for Davidson's defense of their first football title. Davidson head coach Dave Fagg pointed to several changes which he
and the staff will be implementing in spring drills which begin tomorrow. With the departure of three starting offensive backs
and the two regular split receivers, Fagg is basing his new offensive formations “to best suit the players which we
have.”

The ‘Cats will be working to replace last year's Straight “T” formation with two split ends with the “Texas Y.”
The idea of two split ends will be retained, although Fagg also indicated that he intended to use a tight
end upon occasion. “We are going to the ‘Y’ because it has offensive potential to put great pressure on the
defensive front line. Our people fit a formation like that best. We saw it used very effectively by Wofford, for
example.”

The key men in the Davidson “Y” will be rising seniors Mark Thompson and Mike Mikolayunas. “Mark definitely poses a
threat at the perimeter of the defense. The quarterback will be handling the ball a great deal of the time
and Mark can do that. He's a tough, hard-nosed runner. Mark will step right in where Gordon Slade left off
and do a real good job for us. Plans now call for Mikolayunas to play both his fullback position of
last year and at times the slotback position he filled as a sophomore. Mike is as good as anyone in
the Southern Conference. We haven't seen anyone better in the entire state.”

The arrival of Evans Brown on the scene as an assistant coach will mean some changes in the Wildcat defensive
sets this fall. “Coach Brown has had a lot of odd front experience and has convinced me that some of
his ideas will work best for us here,” Fagg said. In addition to the odd fronts, the defensive units will
switch back and forth from the college 4-3 to the pro-type 4-3. “Spring drills are a time we really check
fundamentals,” Fagg added. “1970 is not unlike 1960 or 1950, you still have to tackle to win ballgames.”

“We want to get our offense and our defense in for the first game next fall,” said Fagg. “We're going
to block and give our quarterbacks as much game experience as possible. We want to give Mark a look at
every conceivable defensive problem this spring.”

The seniors who gave Davidson its first Southern Conference football championship were honored at the fifth annual football banquet Monday
night. Quarterback Gordon Slade was named the team's most valuable player for his contribution last fall which included the nation’s
best passing percentage and second greatest number of passing yards. Senior guard Terry Esterkamp won the LaFar blocking award for
his outstanding performance. Esterkamp was a defensive starter two years ago. Steve Butler won the Defensive Award for what assistant
coach Evans Brown called “just a tremendous job.” Senior Center Bill Gammon was given the Loyalty Award and junior fullback
received the centennial game award as the outstanding player in the Davidson-Trinity game. Head coach Dave Fagg praised the senior
footballers as “men who are all that collegiate football is supposed to be about. They were gentlemen in every sense
of the word and gave everything they had to make us the success we were.”

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-1496

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

We Want You To Join Our Church As An Ordained Minister And Have The Rank Of Doctor of Divinity

We are a non-structured faith, undenominational, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Our fast-growing church is actively seeking new ministers
who believe what we believe. All men are entitled to their own convictions; to seek truth their own way, whatever
it may be, no questions asked. As a minister of the church, you may:
1. Start your own church and apply for exemption from property and other taxes.
2. Perform marriages, funerals, and other ministerial functions.
3. Enjoy reduced rates from some modes of transportation, some theaters, stores, hotels.
4. Seek draft exemption as one of our working missionaries. We will tell you how. Enclose a free-will donation for
the minister's credentials and license. We also issue Doctor of Divinity Degrees. We are State Chartered and your ordination is
recognized in all 50 states and most foreign countries.

LIFE CHURCH — BOX 4030, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33023

THE RED HANGER
For The Week Of
APRIL 27-MAY 2
Spring Sale of SPORTCOATS
20% OFF
THE RED HANGER
DAVIDSON, N.C.

MANSFIELDS by Bostonian
The boot with the great put-on ... because they only look expensive. Come select yours today — and see our
other fine wearables for the campus. Available also in low cut model with same cinch buckle.

John Mack & Son
Mooresville
Only 6 miles North
