PYEATT ATTACKS CONGRESSIONAL MYTH (Page Two)

LIX Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1970

A TOUCH OF SPRING (Staff photos) Unseasonable warmth brings out “blithe spirits.”

Professor Cites Historical Perspective As Relevant By RICK HART Staff Writer

Speaking to a group of about 50 students and professors Wednesday, John R. Snell, professor of history at the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, fielded a number of questions concerning the uses and validity of history and opportunities
for history students.

Answering a query about criticism from other social sciences that history is not a relevant study, Snell said that perhaps
persons in those disciplines are a little too confident that they have all the answers. He said that some social
scientists take a narrow view of problems, confining their study to the modern American situation and not taking account of
historical perspectives.

Citing perspective as one of the values of the study of history, Snell said that ideally history shows us “how
we got where we are today.” It serves to free persons from the limitations of their own time and place,
teaching the critical evaluations of situations. Thus, he said, we are constantly finding ourselves at junctures where we have choices
and create choices for the future.

Artist Series Opens Tonight

Richard Gray and Mayo Loiseau, the husband and wife team who presented “A Wilde Evening with Shaw” at Davidson in
1968, return tonight to perform “The World of Anton Chekhov” at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Acting-producing as a team,
they have toured America and Canada since 1959 with their own productions of Shakespeare, Fry, Wilde, Shaw, Coward, and now
Chekhov.

The two-act play is based on the life of Anton Chekhov, the son of a freed serf who not only
worked his way through medical college but also supported most of his family by the humorous stories that poured from
his pen. His robust sense of humor and his gift for producing for the stage, including the Moscow Art Theatre,
led to his uncompromising view of life, both humorous and compassionate, concerned not with the politics and customs of his
time but with the essential nature of man. This is perhaps the reason Chekhov is more widely read and performed
today than ever before, say promoters of the program.

Both Gray and Loiseau have had broad acting experience, including Shakespearean productions. In the fall of 1966, they were artists-in-residence
at Duke University. Tickets for their performance can be purchased through the College Music Department.

Snell admitted that there were some subversions of the historical profession, citing as examples those who use history for political
ends. He spoke of the historians who choose facts to prove points and of those who hold a “straight-line” theory
of history, that history is a series of inevitabilities. Illustrating these problems from his experience in research on German history,
Snell noted that East German rhetoric often sounds as much like biology as like history.

Replying to the criticism that historians' subjective leanings determine history, Snell held that no absolute objectivity is possible. But this,
he said, does not excuse the historian for becoming a propagandist. One must seek all possible data and allow the
facts to decide the case in question. Self-discipline becomes part of the historian’s task.

Snell said that the market for PhDs in history is currently somewhat oversupplied, but he predicted that within a few
years changes in student-faculty population ratios will remove the slack in the market for historians. While nearly all graduates get
jobs, some do not get quite what they hope for, Snell remarked. He said that a part of the problem
lies in the large number (57%) of doctorates which are awarded in American history, particularly modern American history. Linguistic insufficiency
is a prime reason for most students avoiding such fields as European history, in which greater job opportunities now exist,
he said.

So There’s No Pollution Problem At Davidson? By RUSS MERRITT Associate Editor

The college official was very definite in his retort to my question. “Pollution? Why, you’re barking up the wrong tree,
son. We don’t have any pollution here at Davidson.” His answer seemed to sum up the attitude that many Davidson
officials have towards the ecological concern that has been sweeping the country and the world recently. And yet, upon closer
observation, it appears that the college is as blind to its own transgressions as Con Edison in New York has
been in past years.

After receiving from college employees what appeared to be a unanimous opinion that Davidson does not pollute the streams and
land in the area, I decided to do some field research on my own. It didn’t take much more than
a five-minute walk down the banks of the little creek running through the fraternity court to discover that in reality
the college, or somebody, has been pouring what very much resembles soap suds and laundry scum into the stream just
below the tennis courts.

For a number of years, ever since the fraternities decided to celebrate the pinning of a brother with a bath,
the little creek has never been clear. However, the mud that seems to continually permeate the water is nothing compared
to the milkish-white solution that steadily dribbles into the creek from the conspicuous pipe. One old-timer in the area says
that she once remembered when the creek was used for fishing and swimming. “We’d dam it up on hot summer
days and go diving in down where the tennis courts are now. There were even a goodly number of small
fish that as children we liked to chase.” Recently, however, the old-timer returned to the scene of childhood escapades, and
could only shake her head in wonder at the change.

One student, upon observing the sickening flow of “crud and scum,” commented that if it continued at the rate it
was flowing, within a couple of years the cross-country team may have to find a new course. Apparently, the pollution
is coming from the waste that overflows from the laundry sewage pumping station that is situated a few feet up
the creek.

ST. BONNIE GAME PREVIEWED NUMBER NINETEEN

RHC, Administration Spencer, Holds Moral Objection By JOHN McLEAN Managing Editor

In a development related to the 24-hour open dorms proposal, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced his opposition to the
24-hour open dorms proposal. Spencer told this reporter that “I just don’t approve of the idea of girls staying overnight
in men’s dorms.” He stressed that this is a personal moral view and that it is not a decisive consideration.

Spencer said that he views the proposal as a basic change in faculty and trustee policy, and it will thus
have to be approved by both groups before going into effect. Spencer further explained his view that “any educational institution
establishes a climate in a lot of different areas by the standards it sets. The social, moral, and ethical climate
are all part of the educational climate.” “Particularly at a residential college . . . the non-academic climate is a
more continuing responsibility of the college than at a commuter college.”

By “continuing college community” Spencer said that he meant those who are connected with the college for a longer period
of time than students. He feels students should participate in decisions on what kind of “climate” to establish, but that
the policies of the college should ultimately guide these decisions.said that students should “continue in the college community” were the
greater consideration, SPENCER announces opposition.

Clash On Open Dorms Proposal Sent To Full Faculty

The Residence Hall Council (RHC) voted Tuesday night to challenge the Student Life Committee’s (SLC) referral of the 24-hour open
dorms proposal to the entire faculty. This action is the most recent in a number of developments in the history
of the proposal which would change the RHC Manual of Order so that students in each dorm could vote themselves
round-the-clock open dorms.

Last Friday, the SLC voted its approval of the measure, but also adopted President Samuel R. Spencer’s idea that it
was not competent to take final action on the matter, according to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. The
SLC minutes record its decision to recommend the approval of the proposed changes to the faculty. The RHC Tuesday night
decided to challenge the SLC referral to the faculty on grounds that it is unconstitutional, taking the challenge to the
Court of Appeals.

As of press time, it had not been decided by the court, the administration, or the Jurisdiction Committee whether the
Court of Appeals could legally decide such a case. The RHC also voted to poll the student body on its
preference for having 24-hour open dorms. That poll will decide which dorms will be open around the clock if and
when the faculty votes its approval.

The conflict between the RHC and the administration has arisen over what is the proper interpretation of two sections of
the Code and the RHA Constitution. The Code states: Women visitors are permitted in the residence halls only on college-conducted
tours or under (See OPEN DORMS, Page 4).

Faculty Committee Foils Calendar Change Effort

By STEVE ROADY
Associate Editor

An attempt to have the proposed 1970-1971 academic calendar changed failed Monday, as the Faculty Executive Committee, after listening to
arguments from SGA President Ran Coble and former Calendar Advisory Committee member Stephen Roady, passed the following resolution:

Resolved, that we retain the 1970-1971 calendar as adopted, and that we hold an open meeting as soon as possible
to get opinions, so that prior to the end of this academic year we can adopt a calendar for 1971-1972.

According to Coble, the open meeting to consider the calendar will be held next Thursday, Mar. 12 in the Morrison
Room. Coble and Roady had argued that the proposed calendar contained several obvious drawbacks, such as the scheduling of fall
term exams immediately after the Thanksgiving break, and the resumption of winter term classes after Christmas break on January 11th,
instead of on January 4th. Coble cited the calendar referendum results to show that student opinion ran heavily against the
proposed schedule, and Roady noted that of the approximately 80 students he had personally contacted, about 75 had voiced displeasure
with the proposal.

The Executive Committee listened to the students’ arguments but pointed out that many commitments had already been made on the
basis of the published 1970-1971 schedule. They acknowledged the fact that the proposed schedule was by no means ideal but
stated that it would be very difficult to amend it at this relatively late date.

“AND NOT A DROP TO DRINK”

Thick scum fouls local creek bank from the pipe. At least, the waste is very reminiscent of the waste left
in home washing machines. It is interesting to note that as I stood there on the bank watching the bubbles
float down the stream, one of the many area stray dogs, one known among students as “Mange,” walked down the
opposite bank for an apparent drink. However, upon sniffing the stream, he promptly walked back up the bank and wandered
across the road to drink from the “cleaner” end of the creek.

Back in the maintenance department, my college official once again stated that pollution is not a problem at Davidson. “Boy,
I’m telling you, this college has taken care not to pollute anything around here. And we will continue to do
so.” According to college officials, the pipe emptying into the creek is necessary to keep the college’s sewage from backing
up. If the pumping station were to break down, then the overflow is dumped through the pipe into the creek
rather than backing up.

THE EFFLUENCE OF DAVIDSON

However, if the pipe is to be used only in emergency cases, it seems odd that it flows almost constantly.
And the pipe continues to flow. Suds empty into campus stream.

Panel Considers Speech Courses

By RICH WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

A sub-committee of the Educational Policy Committee concerned with speech activities is presently studying the need for speech courses at
Davidson College. After the resignation last year of speech professor Marlin McMillin, there have been no speech courses offered here,
though some are listed in the catalog.

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. hesitated in hiring another professor to replace McMillin because he was not sure that the
existing speech program had a place in Davidson’s curriculum. “The place of speech in a liberal arts curriculum depends upon
the approach, the way it is taught, and its relationship to other disciplines,” he stated. Spencer asked the EPC to
make a study of the situation. The sub-committee dealing with the decision includes Associate Professor of Philosophy Earl MacCormac, Rupert
Barber, assistant professor of drama and speech, Dirk French, assistant professor of classics, Charles E. Lloyd, professor of English, and
students Gray Mason and Rich Cowart.

In the fall, the committee sent letters to 42 colleges and universities asking for information concerning their respective curriculums. All
of the 29 schools responding include speech courses. A report on the findings of this survey concluded that “the smaller
the college in this sample, the more likely we are to find speech either existing alongside drama or taken under
the wing of a larger department.”

Concerning speech at Davidson, Mason, president of the debate team said, “We need a speech teacher desperately. All Davidson’s competition
offers speech courses, and many Presbyterian colleges do also.” Barber favors offering speech courses. “Since so much of today is
oral communication, I feel we should study it as much as we study written communication.” Barber says that if the
school would provide him with another drama professor or a technical assistant, he would consider teaching a few speech courses.

Carmack To Run Computer

Kenneth L. Carmack of Charlotte, N. C. has been hired by the college as its first full-time systems analyst and
computer programmer. Carmack is former programming manager of Data Processing of the South, Inc., of Charlotte. According to Robert J.
Stephenson Jr., assistant business manager of the college, “Mr. Carmack has had nearly 10 years experience in the field of
data processing. We feel fortunate to have a man of his background and abilities join our staff.”

A new computer, an optical scanner, and information storage system are due to be installed at the college by August
1. Carmack, 29, worked during 1960-63 in the accounting department of Security Life and Trust Co. of Winston-Salem. He then
worked for three years as a computer operator with Piedmont Natural Gas Co. in Charlotte before moving to Data Processing
of the South as programming manager.
