Fagg Enthusiastic, Smith Cites Strain

By DON PARMAN
Sports Editor

As the old regime ends on a note of discouragement, the new regime enters with enthusiasm. Newly appointed head football coach Dave Fagg was very optimistic and enthusiastic over the chances for the fall edition of the Wildcat squad.

"I'm very excited over the potential of the boys we have coming back and I'm really looking forward to next fall. I don’t plan any changes in the offense. I'm just awful happy with the way the offense moved the ball last year and I hope we can continue to move it that well. Our running game was better than people realized last year. The running was underrated and underpublicized mostly because we had some boys who earned national recognition in passing.

"Right now I’m not sure how we'll line up defensively. My experience is with an even line but we might work with an odd line, whatever is more effective. One thing I know is that our defensive attitude will not change. It has been building since 1965 and they really have a fine attitude.”

Davidson is expected to name a new defensive backfield coach within a few days. Offensive line coach Turnley Todd has agreed to remain in his position. Fagg said, "We couldn't be more fortunate in having a coach like Turnley Todd on the staff. It thrilled me when he said he'd stay.”

Fagg admitted that the recruiting has been “sluggish,” but indicated that Davidson still has a chance at several outstanding athletes who have applied here. “The uncertainty of the position of the football program hurt us in our recruiting and so has the uncertainty in the coaching situation. Before Coach Smith resigned, Jimmy Jordan had already resigned to return to graduate school and his replacement hadn't been chosen.”

Departing head coach Homer Smith indicated that he considered one of the disadvantages that Dave Fagg has to work under is that he can’t have Dave Fagg as an assistant. Smith's decision to resign was the result of discouragement he felt with the Davidson football program and his relations with it.

“Why did I resign? I was discouraged. Internally I wasn't functioning very well. There was a lot of strain, and I felt it through 365 days. It was almost exactly 365 from the day I realized that there was serious consideration of doing away with subsidized football to the day I resigned.”

Smith said he was satisfied with the decision after analyzing it closely. “I wanted to have the position of the football team be made perfectly clear. The result of the trustee meeting was not that. You could say that psychologically I was unwilling to go backwards with the program.

“I didn’t sense the harmony that I’d hoped the decision would provide. From the people who had advocated a deemphasized program, I sensed a prophecy of doom. They saw Davidson football dying because of the difficulty in raising the money.

“In looking back I see that I had no other choice.” Smith also indicated that the change in admissions policy made last spring by the admissions committee of the faculty did affect him in his role as coach. “The changes made did distress me. I wanted to see what could be done to maximize recruiting results. I wanted to be part of the decision making and I wasn't.”

Smith looked back over his tenure with pleasure. “I don’t think any Davidson person could have loved the school more than I did. There really wasn’t any single high point for me. It would be easy to call last season a high point but for me it wasn’t any more so than 1965 or 1966. I don’t think that I'll remember the years by wins and losses.”

“Davidson football has improved steadily over the last five seasons. We have never gone backwards in our development. The offense we created was designed to fit our personnel. There is no way that we could have won without the throwing game.”

All-Stars Outgun Champion

In one of the most exciting basketball games played in Johnston Gym this year, the JMAC all-stars toppled the unbeaten season champion Pikas by a 99-93 count. The Pikas-All-Star game was the second game in a doubleheader which also saw Cannon III dump Cannon IV for the freshman title.

Both the All-Stars and the Pikas proved that they could shoot the ball as the stars came from behind with 60 points in the second half to 50 by the Pikas. Gene Early from the Phi Delts, Mike Dickens of the Machis, and Independent Dave Wasserman led the rally which erased a 41-39 Pika lead at the half. Mark Affeldt, who led all scorers with 32 for the night, gave the Pikas a quick lead which they maintained until the stars tied the game with 10:03 left in the half. A layup by Dickens, who finished with 30 points, gave the stars their first lead with 6:30 left. Floyd Strand hit a jumper at the buzzer to give the Pikas their two-point margin at the half.

The Pikas, who were playing with three of their regular starters and only two men on the bench, ran out of steam in the second half before the scoring of the stars as Dickens hit for 18, Early 16, and Wasserman 12 in the final period. The game was played under college rules with 20-minute halves.

Strand added 27 for the Pikas and John Calhoun chipped in with 16. Early contributed 27, Wasserman 13, and Johnny Baker 11 for the All-Stars. Cannon III led most of the way as they subdued Cannon IV in an intradorm final for the freshman crown.

Davidson Handballers Win Title In Southern Regionals

Team depth paid off for the Wildcat handball contingent as they captured the team championship in the Southern Intercollegiate Handball Tournament held last weekend in Knoxville, Tenn.

William Brown captured third place in the “A” division singles, Charlie Brown added a third in the “B” division singles, and the doubles team of Walter Sprunt and James Brice finished second in the doubles competition to take team honors over the University of Louisville and Tennessee.

William Brown and Charlie Brown both fell to the eventual champions of their divisions. The winner of the “A” division was East Carolina’s Brian Schul, who knocked out William Brown in the semi-finals, 21-14, 21-7. William was the defending champion in the “A” division. Charlie Brown lost to the eventual champion in the “B” singles in a hard-fought contest. The doubles team of Brice and Sprunt had an easier time as they had a bye in the quarter-finals and then won over the Tennessee team in the semi-finals. In the finals, they were crushed by the nation’s third-ranked team.

Despite the performance of East Carolina's Schul, the Pirates did not have enough participants to qualify as a team and received no points in the team competition. William Brown said, “We didn’t do all that well individually, but we were able to win the team championship. There were twice as many competitors there this year and about ten schools were represented.”

Brown's best game was against last year’s runner-up from Tennessee as he stopped him 21-11 and 21-4. Both William and Charlie Brown will compete in the national championships at Chicago, William in the “A” singles and Charlie in the “B” singles. Brice and Sprunt do not plan to participate this time.

“I think we're both capable of finishing in the top 15 and if we play real well maybe a little higher,” William Brown said. “But it's so hard to know. Intercollegiate handball is the sort of thing you don’t know about until you get to the tournament.”

Brown indicated that the renovated Davidson facilities improved the performance of the Wildcat team. “The courts here helped a lot. They got us ready to play on the better courts like the ones at Knoxville. In fact, ours are a little better than the ones at Knoxville. The school spent some money on the courts and it really helped.”

William Brown is optimistic about the future of handball at Davidson. He pointed to an effort which is underway to make handball an NCAA sport but indicated that the problem is one of coaches and official recognition for the handball teams at the campus level. “In three or four years I think very definitely that we will have a handball team. The handball and squash club this year is a step in that direction.”

William Brown pointed out that it takes opponents that “can tear you apart” before you can improve. “On campus now, Charlie Brown and I are playing everybody about even now. We need to play in tournaments to improve.”

Swimmers’ SC Hopes Very Dim

The Davidson swimmers will go into next week's Southern Conference championships with fourth place all sewn up, but according to Coach Tom Stevens, any finish higher than that is practically impossible. “East Carolina should win it because they have so many good boys and real good depth. William andMary has their best team in years, but they just don't have the depth to win the team championship. We have some individuals who should do real well, but overall we don't have a chance of beating VMI." Stevens sees the best chance for Davidson winners in the freestyle sprints where the Wildcats will feature Jim Newton and Mace Davis. Newton has looked particularly impressive in recent meets, setting school records in the 50 and 100-yard freestyle events in the final meet of the season with Appalachian State University. The tournament will be held at East Carolina University with only four schools sending teams. The Citadel, which had had a program in the past, dropped the sport this year due to lack of interest. The tournament will be held March 5-7 in Greenville. East Carolina, the most heavily subsidized of the Southern Conference swim teams, has dominated the competition for the last three years. (Staff Photo by Ramachandran)

REMATCH IN TOURNAMENT FINALS? Bryan Adrian scores in early win over ECU. With 6:26 to go in the first quarter and never fell behind. Both teams featured balanced scoring as Bob Lewis with 11, Tommy Fondren with 10, and Andy Davis and Larry Spears paced the winners. For Cannon IV, Kevin Harkey was high man with 14 points. Daryl Williams finished with eight, and Tom Reed came off the bench to add seven, including a three-point play at the buzzer in the third quarter to tie the game up. Fondren and Spears controlled the backboards for Cannon III despite the efforts of Pete Jorgenson.

The two leading scorers in LMAC play dominated the voting for the All-Star team as both Steve Hayes and Mike Dickens finished with 35 votes, one point short of being unanimous picks. The Pikas placed both Strand and Affeldt on the first team while Baker finished fourth in the balloting to win the remaining spot on the first team. The champion Pikas placed four men on the three teams with two first and two third-team selections. The Delts had two second-team picks while the Indies placed three players on the third team, Steve Culbertson and Wasserman of the “A” team and John Saunders of the “B” team.

1970 All-LMAC First Team:
- Steve Hayes (Nu)
- Mike Dickens (Machi)
- Mark Affeldt (Pika)
- Johnny Baker (Beta)
- Floyd Strand (Pika)

Second Team:
- Gene Early (Delt)
- Mike Mikolayunas (Gamm)
- John McCammon (Delt)
- Bob Meadows (SAE)
- Bob Niebauer (Sig)

Third Team:
- John Saunders (Indie)
- Joe Lansinger (Pika)
- Steve Williams (KA)
- Gary Scibal (Pika)
- Steve Culbertson (Indie)
- Dave Wasserman (Indie)

The Davidsonian, February 27, 1970, Page Three

Holland And Seeds Agree On SC Finals
By A. W. TURNER, Asst. Sports Editor

If things go as Davidson head coach Terry Holland expects, this year's Southern Conference Tournament final is going to match the two top cage squads of the season and rematch last year’s tourney finalists. “I have to pick the seeded teams all the way through the tournament,” said Holland, “and that will mean an East Carolina-Davidson final.” The ‘Cats’ first-round opponent was V.M.I., the last place team in the loop this year. Earlier this year, Davidson routed the Keydets by a 95-52 count. In the same bracket with Davidson and V.M.I. are Furman and William and Mary. “Furman is capable of playing great ball,” commented Holland. Joe Brunson and Lisco Thomas are both strong rebounders, and Thomas is a good shooter too. “They actually play three guards, and all are quick and good outside shots. Their three outside men take the pressure off from underneath. The team as a whole is quick and strong. “Furman has shown flashes of brilliance this year, losing two close games to South Carolina and us back to back. They are carrying a four-game winning streak into the tournament, and this year their team finished with the first winning record since their 1962 team. “William and Mary has several outside shooters, especially Bob Sherwood, who led the conference in scoring two years ago. But I have to pick Furman to advance to the semi-finals, though.”

In the other bracket, George Washington meets The Citadel, and East Carolina faces Richmond. “The Citadel is a ball control team,” continued Holland, “They are weak on the boards and must hit exceptionally well from the outside to win. “On the other hand, George Washington has personnel just as good as any Southern Conference team. Bob Tallent is leading the scoring statistics, and Ronnie Nunn is a fine player. Recently they have started playing John Conrad, who is 6’10”. They have played very fine ball sometimes this year. For example, they beat Virginia. But they also sometimes play awful basketball. I don't think they played well against us on their home court last week. I think they will beat The Citadel, but I don't think they can put three straight good games together. They are the dark horse of the tournament. “Richmond is a team that, before the season started, everyone picked as one of the top two or three teams in the Southern Conference, but they just haven't played well all year. However, they have won their last two games, so maybe they've found what was missing. “I have to pick East Carolina over them, though. The Pirates are a big, strong team. They are very strong on the boards. Overall, they’re good and solid. If we can get their big men in foul trouble, we'll beat them. If their front line stays out of foul trouble, it'll be a hell of a game.”

The Pirates were the team that Davidson faced last year in the tournament final and the Wildcats won that one. Bryan Adrian, the point-man of the Davidson team, had nothing but praise for the East Carolina team, “They are definitely the best conference team we've faced this year," he said. “They have three big men who are all good and a very fine guard in Tom Miller.” Holland expressed optimism concerning his team. “We are at the peak we were aiming for at tournament time. We played well enough against Duke to have won, and we played an excellent first half at George Washington.” Adrian was more emphatic, “I think we'll win it,” he said.

Wrestlers Pin Carolina, Fall To Duke In Finale
By RICK BUSH, Sports Writer

When was the last time Davidson beat UNC? It was only last Saturday as the wrestlers of Coach Charlie Parker handed the Tarheels a 20-14 loss at Chapel Hill. “We went after them and stayed on top,” said Parker. “It is unusual for a team so young to be so aggressive.” Heavyweight Sean McCormick sealed the victory against UNC with a decision in the final match of the day. The tight contest was not decided until McCormick’s 6-3 win. Also taking decisions for Davidson were Ronnie Williams, Jack Jacobs, Rob Benton, and Jeff Dumansky. Williams won by an impressive 18-8 margin. Ken Dixon won five Wildcat points when his opponent was disqualified.

The regular season finale in Johnston Gym Tuesday night was a different story for the ‘Cats. The Duke Blue Devils, strong contenders for the ACC championship, stopped the Wildcats by a 26-9 margin. Davidson proved to be weak in too many important spots to upset Duke although three grapplers did win decisive victories. At 126, Benton upped his record to 7-1 with a 6-0 decision over Irv Walker. Dumansky picked up his fourth win against three losses with an 8-0 decision in the 134-pound class. Several times Dumansky was close to a pin but lost his advantage and had to start over. Davidson's third win was a big one as Jacobs exploded for a lopsided 17-1 victory in the 158-pound class. The win pushed Jacob's record to 6-2. The Wildcats now begin preparations for the Southern Conference tournament to be held next weekend at William and Mary. William and Mary is the defending conference title holder. Despite the team’s 3-5 final record, Parker points to Dumansky, Benton, and Jacobs as contenders for individual honors. “We won't be first, but we won't be last either. With a good draw, our boys could come up with some surprises.”

WANTED
Married couple with camping experience. Good with children. As counselors of Day Camp at Roaring Gap, N. C. Private Club. Attractive salary. Room and board included. Day Camp to begin June 22 thru Sept. 4, 1970. If interested, please contact Mrs. John Gallaher at P. O. Box 3082 Winston-Salem, N. C. 27102 or call 919-725-2085. List qualifications.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS: Coastal Boys’ and Girls’ camps — featuring seamanship plus all usual camping activities — have openings for college men and women to serve as camp counselors, June 10 - August 22. Excellent character references and ability to instruct in camp program (sailing, motorboating, aquatics, land sports) required. Good salary. Room and board furnished. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Apply to Wyatt Taylor — Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer — Post Office Box 10976 — Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

GALLEY FISH CAMP
TAPROOM
Wherrena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Phone 376-2576

OPEN 9-8
The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI