Page Eight November 13, 1970

Friday, November 13
10 a.m. Bill Iverson
7:30 p.m. Movie: "El Condor"
10 p.m. Hungry I: The Argir Group, Morrison Room

Saturday, November 14
All Day Sacred Music Convocation
7:30 p.m. Movie: "El Condor"

Monday, November 16
10 a.m. Dr. J. B. Rhine: ESP
8:15 p.m. Dr. J. B. Rhine: ESP

Tuesday, November 17
10 a.m. Lunch Films
8 p.m. Fine Film: "The Seventh Seal," Green Room

Wednesday, November 18
10 a.m. Lunch Films
9:30 p.m. Discussion: "The Seventh Seal," Green Room

Thursday, November 19
8:15 a.m. Organ Concert: David Craighead, Presbyterian Church
10 a.m. Eldon Clingan, Minority Leader of NYC Council, Morrison Room
7:30 p.m. Movie: "Dracula," Perkins Auditorium

Friday, November 20
8:03 p.m. Movie: "The Boys in the Band," Morrison Room

Saturday, November 21
8:03 p.m. Movie: "The Boys in the Band," Morrison Room

Monday, November 23
7:30 a.m. Movie: "Frankenstein," Perkins Auditorium

Conference Receiving Mark Threatened By Mikolayunas
By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

With three games remaining, Mike Mikolayunas is bearing down on the Southern Conference receiving record. Mikolayunas must catch eight passes
to eclipse the old conference record set by Mike Kelley. He has hauled in 62 passes for 797 yards to
lead the nation.

Mikolayunas, a Baltimore product, had an outstanding school record. He earned nine letters in four sports at Cardinal Gibbons High
School, especially excelling in basketball and football. As a senior, Mikolayunas was named to several mythical football squads, the most
important being the All-Maryland Scholastic Association team. He and Notre Dame's Tom Gatewood were the ends on that honorary team.

Mikolayunas received offers from many colleges and universities, among them being Dartmouth, Penn, Virginia, Wake Forest, and Maryland. He decided
to accept an offer from Davidson, "mainly due to the academic opportunity," he said. "I knew I could play here,
and when I came down to look at the school, I was impressed by the people I talked to."

"I hope I can get a chance to play. If I can’t play," Mikolayunas continued, "I’ll probably go on to
graduate school, in education, physical education, or something like that. If I don't get to play I would like to
coach."

Mikolayunas was optimistic about this year’s Wildcat gridders. "We have good potential," he commented. "We just can't get the breaks
to fall our way. But we aren't down and out yet. If we can just get it all together, if
we can get the momentum going, we can still go back to the Tangerine Bowl."

By PETER MICHAEL
Sports Writer

Davidson's soccer team clinched the southern division championship of the Southern Conference by defeating the Citadel 6-2 on Nov. 7.
The Wildcats went on to defeat Emory 2-1 on Tuesday, to bring their overall record to 8-3-1, with one regular
season game remaining. The Wildcats play William and Mary on Nov. 21 for the SC championship.

In the victory over The Citadel, Davidson substituted freely, and controlled the whole tempo of the game. According to coach
Harry Fogleman, "We always use liberal substitution, and I don't consider any set first or second team." Davidson scored first
on an indirect kick. Nick Clinch took the kick, and just tapped the ball through the legs of Guamundur Karlsson,
who was standingTwo feet in front of him, Karlsson drilled a 15-foot shot into the top of the goal. Commenting
on Citadel protests, Fogleman said, “We took an indirect kick and made it into a direct kick, and it was
perfectly legal.” Davidson scored a second goal on a fine header by Johnny Bruner. Following a Citadel goal, Richard Spinner
kicked a hard shot that just caught the right corner of the goal. Bruner's second goal, and scores by Joe
Yochem and Brian Tarr produced the final 6-2 score.

Davidson Hosts Regatta
By JOE EARLE
Asst. Sports Editor

Davidson will host the South Atlantic Interscholastic Sailing Association final regatta tomorrow on Lake Norman at 10 a.m. This regatta
will determine the final places for the eleven member teams of the conference, and also determine which team will participate
in inter-sectional contests next spring.

Eight teams are expected to attend the regatta, and little accurate speculation can be made concerning the races, according to
Allen Lundy, vice-commodore of the Davidson team. Lundy pointed out the traditional strength of the Citadel sailors, but said they
were not as strong as the team has been in the past. Lundy and Jim Hunter both commented on the
strength of the University of South Carolina team, with their celebrated skipper Anne Boyd.

“It has appeared that the home team has had a tremendous advantage in all the regattas so far,” Hunter said.
“The home team has won every race so far, with the exception of the College of Charleston, who finished a
very close second to Citadel, and, of course, that was in Citadel home waters.”

“We will have a great advantage,” said Lundy, “and should be able to win, if there is not some drastic
upset.”

MIKOLAYUNAS - National Leader

‘Cats Face W&M For Title

Tuesday's game against Emory was played on a rain-soaked field and both teams suffered because of the poor footing. Karlsson
again led off the scoring late in the first quarter with a header off Tarr’s corner kick. Emory tied the
game with a goal in the third quarter, but Bill Vaughan immediately gave the Wildcats what turned out to be
the winning goal when he scored on a shot that caromed off the right goal post into the net.

As a sophomore, Mikolayunas played slotback. Last season he was the ‘Cats’ fullback, a position he played early this year
until Davidson junked its wishbone offense and shifted him to flanker. Evidently, the move was a wise one. Last week's
Lafayette game gave him the national receiving leadership over his old neighbor Gatewood.

Mikolayunas expressed no preference between his last year’s fullback position and his new flanker spot. “I like the challenge of
running pass patterns, having to be very precise about it. But I also like to run. I like to be
able to do something with the ball after I catch it.”

A psychology major, he is unsure of his future. “I would like to play some more,” he said. “Athletics have
been my life up to now, and I enjoy it. A number of pro scouts have talked to me, but
I don’t know whether I'll be drafted or not.”

CLEARANCE
Discontinued Titles
Harper Torch Books
1/2 PRICE
(Also A Few Discontinued Texts at 80% off)
Sale Starts Friday
Davidson Student Store

And there’s no age limit. If you want to feel like more of a man... if you like a rugged
look, but enjoy the lightweight feel... if you have a real zest for living... then DINGOS are for you! Come
try on a pair—you swinger.
22.99 To 24.99
WORLD'S LARGEST BOOTMAKER
John Meck
Mooresville, N. C.
