(Staff photo by Strand) BALANCING ACT Paul Caldwell awaits the Duke shot at Davidson’s goal.

The Davidsonian
October 16, 1970
Page Nine

Booters Suffer First Loss; Face Appalachian Today
By PETER MICHAEL
Sports Writer

The Davidson soccer team lost its first game of the season at the hands of Duke, but remained unbeaten in
the Southern Conference. The booters travel to Boone today to meet Appalachian State. Paul Caldwell, Dick Levan, and John Bruner
are listed as doubtful starters.

Last Friday, the Wildcats defeated Furman to establish their conference record at 1-0. Tuesday's loss to Duke brought Davidson's overall
record to 3-1.

Davidson's defense played one of its finest games of the season in the battle against Duke. Duke was held scoreless
for three quarters, although the Blue Devils took 20 shots on the goal compared to Davidson's 13. Goalie Jim Montgomery's

WF Harriers Drop ‘Cats
By HAL CANTER
Sports Writer

Wake Forest University runners defeated the Davidson cross country team, 25 to 45, Tuesday. Out of the first ten places
in the race, Davidson's Howard Boyd finished third and Don Butts took 10th.

Sig Eps Seize B Lead

The Sig Eps took possession of first place in Division B by running over the Kappa Sigs, 38-12, last Friday.
The win leaves the Sig Eps with an 8-0 record. The Sigs dropped into a tie for second place with
the Pikas. The Pikas and SPE’s must face each other on Monday in a key contest.

In one of the big surprises of last week, the Delts were upset by the SA's, 19-13. The SA's win
leaves them a half game behind the Delts for first place in Division A.

In IMAC flickerball action on Wednesday, the Indies crushed Cannon I, 53-0, for their fourth win. The Sigma Chi’s picked
up their fifth victory by slipping by the Nus 21-13. In other games, the Delts had an easy time with
the ATO’s, winning 35-4.

Wrestling Tryouts

Coach Charlie Parker has reported that all students interested in trying out for the wrestling team should report to the
gym on Friday, Oct. 16 at 4 p.m. Equipment will be issued at this time.

Martin mentioned that runners Joe Shibley and Pete Kyle were away Tuesday. The result of being without the second and
third best runners was that the Davidson team had no great strength in the middle positions of the race. Martin
was pleased with Boyd's race. He said Butts came in nicely at the end but was slower than usual. He
commented that Ran Coble, the team captain, is not running to his capacity. Martin was a little disappointed about many
of the Davidson teamRunning in a pack as they seemed to do against Western Carolina University, Martin said, "The first
three meets can be excused because we aren’t on the same level as those teams that we competed against." He
added that they should have defeated Forest. Martin and the team are looking forward to the return match with Wake
Forest here on Tuesday, Oct. 27. Martin also expects a great cross-country meet this Friday at 4 p.m. on the
soccer field. Davidson will be against Campbell, Wake, and St. Andrews. He said he would have the team at full
strength for the race.

---

Your Complete Car Care
Cashion Gulf Service
Serving the Davidson Community
892-9308 Main Street

MAKE YOUR FIRST STOP
G. W. STOWE'S ESSO
For All Your Motoring Needs
“We Know Your Car Like A Book”
Main & South Streets
Phone 892-9304

---

Diving stabs saved at least two Duke goals in the second period. Montgomery was playing in place of Paul Caldwell,
the regular goalie who saw limited action because of a leg injury. Montgomery had never played soccer competitively before three
weeks ago when, according to Assistant Coach Peter Sterling, “he was started on a crash course in playing goalie.” Coach
Harry Fogleman cited Karlsson as the outstanding player of the game. Karlsson turned in his usual great performance both offensively
and defensively but couldn’t get any points on the board. Davidson lost a chance for a score in the second
period when Tarr was pushed by a Furman defender as he was dribbling in for a possible goal. The referees
did not spot the infraction, and Fogleman gave the referee the halftime advice of “you have a whistle, use it.”

---

Skippers Open At The Citadel

Davidson's sailing team opens its season tomorrow at The Citadel Invitational Regatta. Allen Lundy, Daryl Douglas, Jimmy Hunter, and Mark
Leonard will represent the Wildcats at Charleston. The Citadel, South Carolina, Georgia Tech, Tennessee, Duke, Clemson, and the College of
Charleston will be in competition with the Wildcats. Allen Lundy pointed out that the team has more depth than in
the past. “Thirty freshmen came out this fall,” Lundy said. “With our depth, we should be able to enter two
of our best skippers at every regatta and never use the same guy twice.”

Several of Davidson's best skippers could not make the trip this weekend. Roger Powell, John Moore, and Bob Haggard, commodore
of the team, are expected to do well this season. Davidson's best skipper last year, Dan Johnston, is in France
this year. “South Carolina and The Citadel are the two teams to beat for the championship,” Lundy explained. Davidson is
scheduled to host the fall championships on Nov. 12.

---

Phone 376-2576
Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristorante
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristorante
Charlotte, N. C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

---

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Where-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

---

Come in and Browse
The Village Store
We have gifts, toys, cards, fabrics
Our Christmas Shop is Open.
