Page Four
March 13, 1970

Friday, March 13
9:30 a.m. Up ’n’ Coming Open Faculty Meeting “College Housing Policy” Morrison Room
3 p.m. Baseball with Pfeiffer Here
7:58 p.m. Movie Morrison Room “Wait Until Dark”
7:30 p.m. Children’s Drama Workshop Hodson Hall “The Good Witch of Boston”

Saturday, March 14
10 a.m. Children’s Drama Workshop Hodson Hall “The Good Witch of Boston”
2 p.m. Children’s Drama Workshop Hodson Hall “The Good Witch of Boston”
7:58 p.m. Movie Morrison Room “Wait Until Dark”

Monday, March 16
9 a.m. 8 o'clock Class Exams
3 o'clock Class Movie “Wrecking Crew”

Tuesday, March 17
9 a.m. 9 o'clock Class Exams
2 p.m. Exams
8:58 p.m. Movie Morrison Room “Sergeant Ryker”

Wednesday, March 18
9 a.m. 11 o’clock Class Exams
2 p.m. 2 o'clock Class Exams
8:58 p.m. Movie Morrison Room “Wrecking Crew”

Thursday, March 19
9 a.m. 12 o’clock Class Exams
2 p.m. I-Section Class Exams
8:58 p.m. Movie Morrison Room “Sergeant Ryker”

Friday, March 20
5 p.m. Spring Vacation Begins

Tom Murphy Calls For ‘Active Doers,’ Tells Of Ministry-At-Large To Hippies
By JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer

Citing the need for “active doers” among current college students, social worker Rev. Tom Murphy told of his work in Washington, D.C. in the Morrison Room Tuesday morning. Murphy started working out of the Pilgrims in the Dupont Circle area of the nation’s capital three years ago, paid by funds from a grant from the Board of Ministries. He acted as minister-at-large to the Dupont Circle area, which is the “center of the hippie sub-culture in Washington, if you can say the area has a hippie sub-culture.” The Circle is also the location of various bars and taverns.

“I started out by going to the bars fairly often, wearing my clerical collar and just acting normal. I tried to be visibly present as a churchman where churchmen usually go to be invisible,” Murphy explained.

Artist Series To Sponsor Princeton Orchestra Apr. 3
Princeton Chamber Orchestra will perform in the next Artist Series presentation Apr. 3. Marion Davies, cellist, and Janice Harsanyi, soprano, will be soloists for the classical music program at 8:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium. The orchestra, directed by Nicholas Harsanyi, is a hand-picked ensemble of 21 string players, with winds and brasses being engaged when the repertoire calls for them. The program will include “Concerto Grosso, Opus 7, No. 6” by Locatelli, “Divertimento for String Orchestra” by Bartok, and “Concerto in D Major for Cello and Strings” by Boccherini. After intermission, the orchestra will present Albert Roussel’s “Sinfonietta for String Orchestra, Opus 52,” Vivaldi’s “Motet, O qui coeli terraequ,” and Elgar's “Introduction and Allegro for Strings, Opus 47.”

Nicholas Harsanyi, director, studied at the University of Budapest Academy of Music with such famous musicians as Leo Weiner, Bartok, Kodaly, and Dohnanyi. He came to the United States in 1938 on a teaching fellowship at Westminster Choir College. During World War II he was conductor of the Second Service Command Symphony. After the war he joined the Lener Quartet as its violinist, and in 1948 he returned to Princeton to continue teaching at the Choir College. In 1955 he joined the faculty of Princeton University. He is currently music director of the Princeton Chamber Orchestra, the Philadelphia Chamber Orchestra, and the Colonial Symphony of Madison, N.J.

His wife Janice Harsanyi, soprano soloist, was a member of the faculty of the Westminster Choir College for 14 years and has toured the world with several musical organizations. She has made three appearances in Charlotte with the Oratorio Singers. Marion Davies, cellist, studied at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia and for several years was first cellist of the Houston Symphony Orchestra. She has performed on both sides of the Atlantic and won such acclaims as “an accomplished virtuoso performer” and “a true artist who plays with strong tone.” Tickets for the Artist Series performance at Davidson may be purchased through the College Music Department.

Nelson Foresees Farm Revolution
Undeveloped nations which are experiencing an agricultural business revolution through the use of new “miracle grains” need to encourage young people to become entrepreneurs. That opinion of Davidson College economics professor Louise Nelson was recently published by the U.S. Congress in a report entitled “The Green Revolution.” New “miracle grains” developed by U.S. scientists are enabling underdeveloped nations around the world to grow far more abundant crops than ever before, causing a “Green Revolution” on their farms. In order to adapt to the booming agriculture production and the business operations related to it, Dr. Nelson recommends that rural towns in the developing nations should seek “talented, educated, urbanized young people” and train them in the methods and benefits of business leadership.

He would do nothing until someone approached him, then just tried to “fill the needs” of the people he was serving—in an advisory capacity, or in any way, letting them know the church really cared about them. After his efforts were established in the community, Murphy added, other people came up with more ideas. First to come into reality was the “Mustard Seed,” a combination coffee-house and soup kitchen, in the church, set up to be a sort of “indoor park.” The runaway and “hippie” kids, as well as others, came in bringing problems, he said, and the place averaged 100-150 people a night. “We gave them a place to come to, and many of them brought along their problems for advice. We had doctors and psychiatrists come on an unstructured basis.” A free clinic was set up at another church in Georgetown, and then Runaway House, where runaway kids could come for a place to stay when they start out. Three young adult counselors there help about 50 kids a month, according to Murphy, as they force the kids to think through their situation and the alternatives. The idea of Runaway House, he commented, is to establish communication between the teens and their parents. “In most cases, communication between a kid and his parents never began until the kid left home. Runaway House is known as a place where they can go to get help in working things out with their parents.” Murphy cited one of the main problems of the facility as being that Runaway House is reduced to the “crisis intervention” stage trying to get dialogue between the teens and their parents.

(Continued From Page 1)
“Things at the Machi house aren’t doomed at all,” Hurwitz concluded. “I’m optimistic that the change will put the house on its feet once again.” Several complications still exist for the house, however, besides the financial troubles. First, active and capable leadership must be found, according to several members. The leaders and officers at the house during the crises have been, in most cases, un-able to find either the time or the energy to help the house through the transition period. For instance, the president of the house had to devote most of his past spare time to the varsity basketball team, leaving his position vacant of capable leadership. Also, many of the house members feel that most of the pledges at the house will leave the organization if it returns to a national status. This, of course, would put pressure on the new group to have a successful rush week next year. Another problem that may exist is that of college interference. Several members fear that the administration of the college may attempt to block the return of the national organization to the campus. The college, however, has apparently expressed no such desire. “Besides,” said Rick Weddle, one of those sympathetic to the national group, “the house never officially disaffiliated itself from the national organization. I guess that when we voted to go local no one contacted the national group.” In any event, however, Weddle pointed out, nothing definite can be said about the future of the Sigma Chi-Machi house. “Everything's so indefinite right now that I can’t say for sure what is going to happen, and I don’t think anyone else can, either.”

Debaters Tackle Major Tourneys

During the winter term this year, Davidson's debate team has attended four major debate tournaments. The first tournament was at Old Dominion University — the “Sweetheart Invitational” Tournament held on Feb. 13 and 14. Representing Davidson were the teams of Scott-Deininger and Eskridge-Davis. In the tournament, Scott and Deininger came out with a record of 3-3 and Eskridge and Davis with a 2-4 record. Mike Scott won individual honors with a trophy for having second place speaker points. Davidson's varsity debaters also attended the Dartmouth Invitational Tournament in February. The team of Gray Mason and Danny Clodfelter compiled a 1-7 record at this prestigious tournament. Mason and Bill Eskridge were Davidson's representatives to the Citadel Invitational Tournament in the senior varsity division. The team won four debates and lost only two to be the sixth-seeded team in the tournament. The Citadel Tournament was held from February 27 through 28. The last tournament of the term in which Davidson was represented was the Gulf Coast Tournament held on March 6 and 7 in Florida. Scott and Mason attended and compiled a 3-5 record. Although the debate team did not have a sparkling record for this term, the team hopes to improve its record in the spring term.

When asked about drug abuse problems he has come across, and what he is doing about it in his ministry, he answered that the “major drug problem is that everybody thinks we have a drug problem. The panic and hysterical overreaction often involved is often more destructive than the drugs used,” he explained. “I'm convinced that the majority of high school kids are experimenting with drugs, the vast majority of the adult population has been taking drugs, either legal or illegal, and kids have thus been taught that there is a chemical solution for their problems.” There are two types of kids who take drugs, he added—those who feel the need to identify with the “hippie drug sub-culture,” and those who take them for psychological needs. This latter category includes people that are just seeking a more intense experience, while the other group contains the people that are unlikely to stop with harmless drugs.

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

MINISTER-AT-LARGE Rev. Tom Murphy calls for “active doers.”

Hall Counselors Picked; Applications Set Record

By STEVE CROSS Copy Editor

Twenty-two hall counselors have been selected for next year's freshman dorms. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, Director of Student Housing, noted that there were more applications for dorm counselors this year than ever before. Rising juniors and rising seniors were both eligible. The hall counselors for next year are Johnny Brun, Greg Scott, Mike Elliott, Floyd Strand, Bob Meadows, Charlie Parks, John Douglas, Allen Peterson, Buck Coyn, Reaves Lauthan, Bill Naylor, Frank Clark, John Porter, John Bolinger, John Kenyon, Jack Jacobs, Cecil Burney, Jerry Dean, Mort Chiles, Duff Bruce, Alan Kirkpatrick, and Joe Delk. The three alternate hall counselors are Mark Meza, Jim Winn, and Dick Levan. If the number of freshmen who come exceeds expectations, Mrs. Nicholls said, the extra hall counselors will be used.

A committee consisting of Mrs. Nicholls, Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr., associate professor of education William B. Hight, College Chaplain R. Scott Woodmansee, and Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith, read all the applications and assigned a numerical rating from one to ten to each. Then this committee met with the President of the SGA and the President of the RHA, plus all senior counselors who chose to come, to review the ratings. The hall counselor system has come under criticism in recent years for separating the freshmen from the upperclassmen. Most other colleges combine them in some way. Mrs. Nicholls took a survey of student opinion last spring, however, and concluded that most students here wanted to retain the present system. She added that nothing would really be changed if the freshmen were integrated, since upperclassmen tended to express a preference for certain dormitories.

Charlotte Concert

David Richey, associate professor of music, has composed an original “New Concerto for Violin and Orchestra,” which will be performed for the first time by the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra in Charlotte April 8. “When I first got the idea for this piece three summers ago, I began it as a symphony,” Richey explained. “But the melodic line was so strong that I decided to write a concerto for violin and orchestra.” Richey said that his wife Elaine, first violinist of the Charlotte Symphony, was “a great help” in the composition of the piece. The concerto has three movements. The second movement is an unorthodox piece featuring muted trumpets, a double bass, and a snare drum forming a small unit and presenting a jazz idiom in contrast to the violin. “The first movement, in sonata form, developed in response to the motion and color of wind as it blows through a tree,” Richey said. “It has a sort of shimmering, harmonic color. Over this develops the violin solo which represents my response to what I see and hear.” “The third movement, in rondo form,” he continued, “is optimistic, vigorous, and very physical. One of the secondary sections is what I call virtuoso harlequinesque, or fiddle playing.”

ST. PATRICK'S DAY CARDS Tuesday, March 17 Your personal envoy of good taste The Village Store Davidson, N. C.

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT (Formerly Elk’s Restaurant) STEAKS & SEAFOOD West Wilson at 21 By-Pass Mooresville, N. C.

WESTERN AUTO Main St. Davidson, N. C. Phone 892-1496

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA Hamburgers Pizza Ham on Jewish Rye Chicken Salad Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato Grilled Cheese Coney Island Hot Dog Spaghetti Half Pound Chopped Steak DRAFT BEER REGULAR and KING SIZE To Take Out

THE WILDCAT DEN 11 to 2 5:30 to 11