A HEAVY RUSH (photo by Doty) Calvin Allen eludes Phil Bishop in IMAC tourney play.

FACE TOUGH JACKSONVILLE
Booters Tie St. Andrews, Down Belmont-Abbey, 3-2
By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

If Davidson's soccer team thinks last week's assignment was rough, they had better hope next week does not come. "They ain't seen nothin' yet," according to Coach Harry Fogleman. The Wildcat booters contributed what Fogleman called the "finest efforts of the year" in coming from behind to defeat Belmont-Abbey, 3-2, and tying St. Andrews, 1-1.

In both games, the team was not at full strength. In the Belmont-Abbey game, the home team led 2-0 at the half. But the visiting 'Cats got three goals in the second half, two coming in the final quarter to win. Fogleman praised Davidson's defense in what he termed "a very hard game." It was the third time in as many years that the Belmont-Abbey game had been decided by one goal.

As far as Davidson is concerned, there was just too much Craig Hannas in the St. Andrews contest. The small college all-American goalie made 18 saves and then booted in the tying goal with less than a minute and a half left in the game. After taking a 1-0 lead in the first quarter, the match turned into a scoreless struggle until Mike Taylor was called for a handball in the penalty area with just one minute and twenty seconds left in the fourth quarter. St. Andrews brought Hannas up from his goalie position, and he booted the important goal. In last year’s game, Hannas beat the Wildcats with a penalty kick in the closing minutes of play.

Jim Montgomery played an outstanding game at goalie for Davidson against St. Andrews, according to Fogleman. He stopped two penalty shots and got a hand on Hannas' shot. After tomorrow’s conference encounter with East Carolina, the 'Cats have a home game with Jacksonville. "Jacksonville is one of the soccer powers of the Southeast," said Fogleman. "Just this week they tied Carolina, the defending ACC champ. We are very fortunate that a school such as Jacksonville would consider playing us. We have no business playing them—no more than our tennis team has taking on UCLA," he commented.

Terriers Down Cat Rifle Team
Davidson's rifle team got off to a disappointing season start losing their first match of the season to Wofford, 1088 to 1187. "This is a relatively new team and nearly everyone shot a lot worse than they had been in practice," team captain Max Thomason said. Jim Maxwell was the top performer for the Wildcats as he shot 232. Thomason remarked that the freshman had never shot that well in practice. Thomason shot a 226 after consistently firing around 250 in practice. Other scores in the match were: Billy Mohr, 217; Larry Kroll, 206; and Gary Riggs, 169. Only the top four scores counted in the team score. The shooters missed the services of Tom Maxwell in the first match. Maxwell was a member of the team last year. Thomason expects Joel Bradley, Tony Oakley, and Ken Williams to be competing in other matches this season. The team is coached by Capt. Richard P. Carmody of the ROTC Department. Carmody is assisted by Sgt. Benjamin F. Turpin.

October 30, 1970
Page Nine

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

The IMAC flickerball regular season ended last Friday, and as a prelude to the playoffs an all-star game was played Monday, Oct. 26. The "B" division stars routed the standouts of the "A" division by the decisive score of 44-14. Displaying a devastating offense and a tenacious defense, the "B" stars jumped to a commanding 31-7 halftime advantage and coasted the remainder of the game.

The "B" offense was paced by tailback Buzz Tarver of the SPE's, who tossed two touchdown passes and deftly executed the offensive plays. Tarver's scoring passes were to fellow Sig Eps Jim Cantrell and Wade Shepherd. Cantrell, who was playing in place of injured David Russell of the Kappa Sigs, also fired for two scores from his halfback position. Pikas Ray Swetenberg and Mark Affeldt were on the receiving end of these aerials. The "B" defense also took part in the scoring, as they returnedTwo of three intercepted passes for touchdowns. Pika Floyd Strand, SPE David Shepler, and Gamm Scott Nicholson were the thieves of the passes. Other standouts on the "B" defense were Swetenberg and Kappa Sig Frank Clark, who used their decided height advantage to block several passes. Tarver praised Affeldt for his outstanding receiving, noting that he made several diving grabs. Tarver also pointed out that the presence of Cantrell, Shepherd, and Shepler made his job easier. Plays were those used by the Sig Eps in the regular season.

Wake’s Gulledge Breaks Cross-Country Record
By PETER MICHAEL
Sports Writer

Six runners broke the Davidson cross-country course record as Appalachian won a five-team meet here on Oct. 27. Appalachian placed six of the top ten runners and defeated, in order of finish, Pembroke, High Point, Wake Forest, and Davidson. Jim Gulledge of Wake Forest lowered the course record, cutting over a minute off of the old 27:02 record. Gary Church and George Philipps of Appalachian, Victor Elk and Robert Knowles of Pembroke, and Mike Turmala of High Point all broke the former record by at least 25 seconds.

Coach Sterling Martin was more than satisfied with the Wildcats’ performance despite the last-place finish. “Most of the boys improved their times over the last meet. This also happened last year, and I really don't know why the times improved.” Howard Boyd finished first for Davidson, his time of 28:38 being good for 19th place. The fact that Boyd bettered his previous best time by 27 seconds is indicative of the fine race he ran. Joe Shibley finished 23rd for the ‘Cats, and in the process bettered his best time by 42 seconds. The harriers travel to Raleigh on November 2 for a meet with North Carolina State.

The most effective plays for the “B" offense were pitchouts to Cantrell, who then flicked downfield, and quick look-in passes to Affeldt and Swetenberg. As far as the “A” division was concerned, it was simply a case of being outclassed. The defense showed a particular weakness in covering second passes after an initial flick play. The “A” stars also rushed two men on many occasions, enabling the “B” team to penetrate more easily. Offensive standout was Bick Halligan of the Delts, who threw two touchdown passes from his tailback position. Fellow Delt Jeff Chet turned in his usual outstanding receiving performance. “A” rusher Bob Meadows of the SAE's put a good hard rush on Tarver throughout the game. Other participants for the “A” all-stars were: Herb Clegg, Sigma Chi; David Weaver, SAE; Rhett Talbert, ATO; Roy Campbell, SAE; Jack Steele, Delts; Pat Corley, Pi Kapps; Bobby Little, Cannon II; Mike Deese, Delts; Keith Onsdorff, Delts; Jack Latimer, Sigma Chi; Harlan Day, Delts; Walt Sprunt, Delts; and Jim Wright, Delts. The remainder of the “B” team was: John McCammon, Indies; Paul Wetzel, Kappa Sigs; and Cooper Gerty, Kappa Sigs.

The playoff games began Wednesday, Oct. 28, with the favored teams winning as expected. In a battle of freshman squads, Cannon II, who finished the regular season 5-5, advanced to a Thursday encounter with the Phi Gamms. The Gamms (4-6) earned the right to meet Cannon II by squeaking past the vastly improved Pi Kapps (4-4) by the score of 24-19. In other action, the ATO's (4-4) romped past hapless Cannon I (1-9) by a convincing 47-0 margin. The Indies (4-6) crushed East II (2-8) 40-7, and met the ATO’s in yesterday's feature game. This afternoon at 4 p.m., the Betas (6-4) tangle with the Cannon II-Phi Gamm winner in the seventh game of the tournament, while the Sigma Chis (6-4) met the ATO-Indies winner in game eight.

Next week’s schedule will find the upper bracket teams seeing their first playoff action. Monday, the SAE’s (9-1) meet the winner of game seven, the KA’s (6-4) seek revenge against the Kappa Sigs (9-1), the Delts (9-1) and Pikes (9-1) square off in the feature game, and the Sig Eps (9-1) tangle with the winner of game eight. The semifinals take place on Wednesday, with the championship game scheduled for Thursday afternoon at 4 p.m. on field one.