THE BATTLE OF THE BOARDS
Mike Maloy and Bob Lanier fight for the ball. (Staff Photos by Lyte)

SOMETIMES IT’S HARD TO MAKE YOUR POINT

THE BIG KIDS ON THE BLOCK
Doug Cook, Mike Maloy, and Bob Lanier dominate action. Davidson's Mike Maloy, Jerry Kroll, and Doug Cook take issue.

The Davidsonian
March 13, 1970
Page Three

LANIER AGAIN
Doug Cook scores against the Biggest Bonnie.

Davidson Bows To Bonaventure,
Maloy, Cook, Kroll, End ’Cat Era
By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The era of the “Big 3” in Davidson basketball is over. It ended Saturday night in New York, with an 85-72 loss to third-ranked St. Bonaventure. In an interview with Jerry Kroll this week, Kroll said that he felt the ‘Cats played “as well as we could, for 36 minutes, but didn’t play ball for four minutes and lost the game.” The loss left the ‘Cats 22-5 for the year, while it was St. Bonaventure’s twenty-third win in 24 starts.

Although All-American Bob Lanier scored 28 points

Brown Brings Enthusiasm To Post As Wildcat Defensive Back Coach
By ERNIE SHIPE
Asst. Sports Editor

Evans Brown leaned back in his chair as he talked on the phone to a football prospect and his coach. Enthusiastically and convincingly he told John Weber of Mansfield, Ohio, his sincere beliefs about the virtues of Davidson. “This boy could be a real sleeper,” Brown said. “He was out with an injury missing five games and still made all-conference in one of the toughest leagues in Ohio. Every time he gets his hands on the ball, he comes up with an exciting play.”

Head Coach Dave Fagg is pleased with Brown’s enthusiasm. “His first month here it was impossible to keep up with him,” said Fagg. “It is exciting to see a coach with so much enthusiasm. He comes to us highly recommended from Pride Ratterree (South Carolina assistant) who has one of the best football minds around.”

Brown explained how he became interested in the job. “Three years ago Coach Pride Ratterree and I came out on a recruiting and scouting trip through North Carolina and Virginia. We just happened to stop by Davidson to see them play Richmond and then I met Coaches Smith and Fagg along with the rest of the staff. I happened to mention to Coach Ratterree that there was something about this campus I liked. It was my idea of what a college campus should be and I said this seemed like an ideal place to work and live. I had no idea I would ever come here and was really lucky to be retained by Fagg when Homer Smith resigned.”

Before coming to Davidson, Brown had been a graduate assistant at South Carolina. There he learned many lessons from Paul Dietzel, the greatest being the ability to organize and recruit. Prior to coming to South Carolina, Brown had been

Star In Tourney Action
Strong individual performances were the high point of the conference winter sports tournaments for Davidson as the Wildcats scored one fourth, one fifth, and one seventh.

The highest finish was provided by Coach Tom Stevens and his swimmers as they finished fourth in a field of four behind record-shattering performances from Mac Davis and Jim Newton. Davis set three school records with his times in the 200, the 1000, and the 1650 yard freestyle events. The tournament was the first time that Davis, normally a sprinter, had swum the 1650 and was his first competition in the 1000. Newton set new school marks in the 50 and 100 yard freestyle, for one third and one fourth. Newton's performance is even more impressive in light of Dr. Davis’ discovery Tuesday that Newton has had a broken wrist and a broken finger for the last month.

East Carolina easily outdistanced William and Mary for the team championship.

The indoor track team came in last in the conference tournament as only Ray Swetenburg and the two-mile relay team won points. Swetenburg won two points for his fourth in the triple jump while the relay team of Stagg Newman, Ron Clark, Howard Boyd, and Gary Fort placed fifth. William and Mary more than doubled the score of second place Furman to wrap up its team title. Assistant track coach Sterling Martin said, “We didn’t do as well as I'd hoped, but we're looking forward to the outdoor season. I think we can be stronger than last year.”

The wrestling team rode a raft of third and fourths for a fifth place finish in the conference wrestling tournament. East Carolina and William and Mary ledthe field by a wide margin. Barbara Streisand | 70 m.m. Stereophonic Sound. Evenings: —learned Davidson has ° Worth A Trip To Charlotte! To See “HELLO DOLLY” with Matinees: Wed., Sat. & Sun. — 2 p.m. CAROLINA THEATER 226 North Tryon serving in the army. His football career began at Wofford but he transferred to Mississippi State where he was drafted into the service. Brown still looks every bit the defensive end he played with a good build on his 6.2 frame.

His duties under Fagg will be to replace Jimmy Jordan as the defensive backfield coach and to recruit in the Midwest, West Virginia, Tennessee, Kentucky, and western Pennsylvania. When asked about his philosophy of defense he said it was very similar to Fagg's. “Coach Fagg and I both under Pride Ratterree. I believe playing defense is simply a game of hitting. You've got to outhit the other guys. That's all defense is about.”

The 30-year-old Brown couldn't be happier with his situation at Davidson. “This is a unique place where you can get a great education and still play football,” Brown said. “I really think an excellent future in football.”

Saw, 8 p.m. and garnered 15 rebounds, he was not the overpowering force he usually is. “I thought we did the job on Lanier as well as Huffman and Gary. We were willing to concede Lanier his 40 points, but we didn't contain Gantt, and Kalbaugh must have had the best night of his career,” Kroll said.

Kroll predicted St. Bonaventure would win the Eastern Regionals, but would lose in the semi-finals of the nationals. Asked to compare last year's North Carolina team with St. Bonaventure, Kroll replied: “UNC was a better ballclub. Lanier is pretty much the whole show for St. Bonaventure, while UNC had five good players, not just Scott.”

This was supposed to be the Wildcats’ year, but it became another “year that could have been.” It was a disappointing finish for Mike Maloy, Doug Cook, and Kroll, the trio whose varsity teams compiled a 73-13 won-lost mark, and twice made it to the finals of the Eastern Regionals.

Charlie Kroll dismissed the notion that there might have been complacency among seniors this year. He pointed out that statistics do not tell the whole story. “We made a drastic change in our offense this year. We had five guys working in it, unlike last year when we went almost exclusively to Mike Maloy.” This, he said, accounts for Maloy’s lower scoring average, not complacency.

Kroll said the USC game “was indicative of what we could have done all season. But we played according to the calibre of the opposition during all three years.” Kroll said he feels that Coaches Hof, Brickels, and McGeachy “did a hell of a coaching job.” He looks for the Wildcats to surprise a lot of people next year.

Baseballers Drop First, Sailors Win Second Spot

The sailors and the baseballers got an early start on the spring season with contests in the past week. The sailing team traveled to the University of South Carolina and won a second-place finish in a field of six behind Clemson. Sophomore Kelly McKee was the skipper in the ‘A’ division and captured two thirds and a sixth. Freshman Jimmy Hunter took a first and a second in the “B” division and failed to finish one race.

The baseball team dropped their opener to Belmont Abbey on Wednesday 7-3 as three Wildcats errors led to six unearned runs. Starter Marshall Case took the loss. The baseball team meets Pfeiffer today at three on the Davidson field with Wade Shepard starting on the mound. The team will leave for a spring tour of seven games in Florida after exams.

La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Phone 376-2576

THE LITTLE KITCHEN — FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

ROCK CONCERT MYRTLE BEACH EASTER featuring "TRACTOR" Straight from New York's Fillmore plus “WILDFIRE” Columbia’s new rock rage Myrtle Beach Convention Center 2 Big Shows Sat, 8 P.M. Sun. 4 P.M. March 28th, 29th Admission: $2.00 — TICKETS AVAILABLE FROM: MYRTLE BEACH CONVENTION CENTER Myrtle Beach, S.C. WRITE TODAY

Come see our New Threads
Knit Shirts by Chemise LaCoste
Jantzen
Van Heusen
SHADES by Swank
SLACKS, SHORTS, SWIMWEAR, CLOTHING and ACCESSORIES for the pacesetters
Mooresville