8 Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
—Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO FEBRUARY 13, 1970

Hands Off

Cecil Burney’s recent statement that the Davidson administration and personnel are unwelcome and unwanted in residence halls for the purpose of search is but another in an ever-growing list of student grievances against the college’s “in loco parentis” policies. It is indeed unfortunate that the administration still finds it necessary to attempt to control the lives of the students under some moralistic code while hypocritically operating under the Code of Responsibility. What is even more unfortunate is that its policies and police actions are alienating the administration more and more from the students that it desperately needs to be relating to at this time. Already rumors such as those concerning paid student informers are spreading rapidly through the student body, and students are naturally reacting negatively toward the college. Even the student “silent majority” is beginning to complain about the college’s apparent disregard of student rights, a disregard stemming from an attempt to keep Davidson in its traditional role and the Davidson student in his traditional place.

The crux of the problem seems to be the “in loco parentis” policies: the attitude of the administration that Davidson students still need to be regulated, managed, “mothered,” even though the college last year agreed to the student freedoms provided by the Code of Responsibility. It is this attitude that the students can’t accept and that Burney is attacking.

Because of the student sentiment developing along these lines, we agree with the principles which Burney has set forth in his letter. It is not the place of the college to give unexpected “room checks” for whatever reason, nor is it under the present Code of Responsibility the administration’s duty to administer general dormitory regulations. The Code of Responsibility can only be as good as all elements of Davidson allow it to be. Therefore, it is necessary that the administration accept the Code in practice as well as nominally if it is to operate effectively. Otherwise, the student freedoms which are new to Davidson will soon be lost. If the administration does want the Code to succeed, then it is high time for a revision of attitudes toward students with revisions already on paper. However, if the administration in reality doesn’t care if the Code succeeds or not, then it is doing its job well.

When the Code was set up, it was agreed that it would come up for the review of the Board of Trustees. So on April 24 the trustees will judge the Code according to its general acceptance and success among the student body and over the rest of the campus. How, then, can the administration expect the students to demonstrate the worth of the Code when the administration itself is taking the students’ initiative? Is the Code doomed to failure simply because certain college policies and policy-makers refuse to take the plunge and try it out completely? We hope not. After all, it’s still not too late for the administration to put the Code into practice.

Court On Trial

After much discussion and complaining from Davidson students, misunderstanding on the part of the college community and a great deal of secrecy on the part of the powers that be, the Davidson judicial system has considered its process to the extent that it has reversed a sentence. The decision in question was the one convicting a student of violating the Code of Responsibility by selling hallucinatory drugs. When students first learned of the proceedings in this case it was readily apparent that many were displeased with the actions of the Regulations Court in handing down the decision that it did. From the transcripts of the court proceedings it was obvious that this part of the college judiciary did not operate as many students assumed a court would act which held sway over their college careers. Several students questioned points peculiar to this one case, but many also pointed to broad characteristics of court operation that they felt were in conflict with good judicial practice. And those general objections are significant.

It is also significant that the defendant involved specifically requested that his retrial should not be conducted by the Regulations Court. He claimed that the court could not give him a fair trial. And we agree with him. In fact, leaving the details of this particular case aside, it is hard to imagine how the court as it is presently set up could give very many fair trials at all, original or retrial. The problem is in court structure which does not allow the proper separation of court interests and the interests of the defendant.

First, there is the problem of the chairman of the court working before the court is ever brought to session to try to gather evidence and decide whether a trial is indeed justified. By the time the court has ruled that a necessity for trial exists, there is already significant doubt in the minds of its members as to the innocence of the defendant. A second problem arises once the court has begun its hearings. The court is forced to act as its own prosecutor. Not only has the court been biased by its own preliminary proceedings but also it is forced to adopt a negative attitude toward the defendant in order to bring out supposedly incriminating evidence. The court is forced by its very structure to dwell most intensely from its own point of view on the negative aspect of the case.

There are two dangers in this almost inherent negative bias on the part of court members. First, there is the problem that this bias will go unnoticed. Court members could assume that they were offering the fairest possible trial and could easily hand down a conviction. This conviction might be proper but there is the too-real danger that it could be harsher than the facts justified. On the other hand, the question of negative bias might be entirely unjustified. The court, evolved out of the manifest wisdom of the Code of Responsibility, may be well aware of the problems inherent in its structure. In fact, it may be too aware of these weaknesses. A court wary of its own power and opinion might easily be too weak to consider properly cases going before it. Such a court might be too passive to seek the proper evidence and all the evidence. It might be too cautious to reach a valid decision.

The solution to these problems seems to lie in the area of two new divisions of power. The first would be the establishment of a grand jury system to decide if a trial is really necessary. Such a system could help free a court of preliminary bias. A second change could be the creation of a prosecutor for the court. Not only would the court be freed of some possibilities for prejudice but the prosecutor would save the court much work by bringing all the pertinent evidence for his case without the court having to dig it up.

As it stands now the court is not at a peak of popularity. And a great part of the reason for lack of popularity is that students distrust an institution that is at the same time powerful and apparently suffering from a gross misalignment of power. Perhaps with a few changes in the court student distrust would disappear.

Nice To Know

Let us not deny that apathy is one of the chief characteristics of the Davidson student body. It is also unfortunate that much of what passes for activity in the face of apathy is time spent flying in the library or elsewhere. For those reasons it is extremely refreshing to find an attitude such as that which has been demonstrated by the freshmen on the second floor of Cannon. Extremely refreshing. These freshmen, led by Mike Scott, showed that they were willing to sacrifice not only some of their time but also their money to help one of those very real but too often ignored citizens of the “other Davidson.” Most important is the fact that Scott initiated the action and the students on his hall participated completely voluntarily. This action was not one of those semi-coerced but highly publicized acts of goodwill that many of the more reactionary pledge classes are so fond of doing. This act was not one that had official backing and fatherly aid from some organization on campus. This act was really an expression of will and concern on the part of individual students. It is something we find very encouraging. It is an act we would like to see emulated.

Alumnus Asks Spencer Why

NOTE: This letter was sent by Mr. Norman Johnson to President Spencer concerning the Johnson Notion Fire. Mr. Johnson requested that it be printed in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

WVU Reviving Academic Study

Is student unrest a temporary aberration resulting from the Vietnam War? Or does it run deeper, reflecting unhappiness with courses taught and how they are taught? West Virginia University can't end the war in Vietnam. But it is worrying about the courses taught and the methods used in teaching them. A variety of academic reforms already have been implemented. Student Administration, the elected voice of all students at WVU, has reactivated the seven-year-old Academic Study Forum that was largely dormant until last year. The Academic Study Forum has helped effect two major changes in academic policies: Instructors must inform their students in the first class meeting that class attendance will affect their grades. In the past, instructors could...

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that week. All letters must be typed and double-spaced. We reserve the right to edit letters over 250 words in length. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted.for publication. E > had SAR Campaign Launched

More than 350 colleges and universities are planning to participate in a "national campaign of environmental education" this spring, according to a spokesman for Environmental Teach-In, Inc., which is a group of graduate and professional students who are coordinating the campaign.

Most of the activities will culminate in a national teach-in on environmental problems, which is planned for April 22. Sen. Gaylord Nelson (D-Wis.) first proposed the teach-in last September. Stephen Cotton, a member of the staff at Environmental Teach-In, Inc., said that although most of the activities will be focused on April 22, he and others in the group hope that additional programs about environmental problems will be planned before and after that date. To achieve this hope, Environmental Teach-In, Inc. is seeking to work with community organizations on conservation as well as with high school and college groups.

Graduation with honors or highest honors now will be determined by either the student’s total cumulative grade-point average or the last 48 semester hours that he completed. “The schools can use the method that will give the student the best average,” explained Larry Rowe, chairman of the Academic Study Forum who is a senior majoring in political science. “This will work to the student’s advantage. The biggest change is dropping the requirement of having a final semester with a 3.0 (‘B’) average or better.”

Rowe said the Academic Study Forum is now working on a new system of evaluating teachers with the WVU College, an expansion and a new freshman grading system, and an evaluation of the concerns of Black students. “I don’t know if the Academic Study Forum is helping bridge the gap between the faculty and students,” Rowe observed. “But it is working very well in some schools such as the College of Engineering.”

The Academic Study Forum is made up of the student chairmen of the academic study committees appointed by the deans of WVU schools and colleges to evaluate undergraduate academic programs and problems. “The Engineering Council handles all major problems of concern to our students and is a decision-making group with clear lines of authority,” commented Dean Chester A. Arents of the WVU College of Engineering. “Through the Council, engineering students are placed in a real position of importance where they are treated as co-professionals with the academic staff and administrative officials of the College of Engineering,” Dean Arents said.

The College of Commerce has established a committee consisting of four students and four faculty members to discuss its academic program on a long-term basis.

To the Editor:

I recently learned that Mr. Johnson's contract has not been renewed for the year 1970-71. Because of the interest and excellence which I found in his instruction when he was my teacher, I would have considered this alone regrettable. However, if the report which I have is true, I must consider the manner in which Mr. Johnson's contract was not renewed to be deplorable. Is it true that Mr. Johnson was informed of his dismissal only after the meeting of the Southern Historical Association had taken place, a meeting at which Mr. Johnson would have had an opportunity to apply for other positions, had he known? Is it true that Davidson had delayed informing Mr. Johnson in order to have the opportunity to recruit someone to take his position first? Is it also true that Mr. Johnson would have been due for his sabbatical year next year, one which he will not be able to take now? If these be the facts of how Davidson handled Mr. Johnson's case, I find nothing forthright or ethical in that handling. I disapprove greatly.

Karl Beck '67
Lesotho Training College
Morija, Lesotho

By PAUL E. ROWLAND

And The Changes They Are A-Coming

Guess who said, “We want change to come from within rather than from outside pressure.” State legislators, local school boards, the president of Davidson College, Davidson’s new president Johnny Bruner, and countless others have voiced assorted versions of this pitiful plea successfully arousing sympathetic reactions, but why?

What potent emotion-activators lie hidden in the concept of change “coming from within rather than without?” I suggest that the various forms of this phrase tempt one to yield to the animal urge to do what one pleases, blindly ignoring good reasons not to. In the legislative and school board examples, the appeal to “let us initiate action rather than be pressured from without” would often be more fairly represented as “let us get used to integration at our own speed.”

But what did Dr. Spencer mean when he used similar phrases? Obviously, something different. Dr. Spencer was characterizing the trends indicated by the Trustees' actions at their recent meeting when he said, “The question is whether we are going to change constructively or let the college be changed by outside forces.” But look at the trustees’ actions: They said they liked a campus expansion scheme, especially the library site. They said they liked the idea of girl students (who doesn’t?) but didn’t have the money for it (who does?). They said they wanted more minority representation, i.e., blacks. And finally, they said football could sink or swim on alumni support.

All that makes great copy for the College News Bureau and even impresses a few students. But think about it. These sweeping changes may not take place for years. Long-range planning is essential to the welfare of the College, to be sure, but why did the trustees take no action on some of the specific problems which can be dealt with now? Perhaps the trustees could be expected to delay debate on the makeup of the board itself, but why was action not taken on other recommendations of the Spencer Commission on Church Relations? Why was not the proposal to drop the “God-rule” faculty restrictions debated and acted on by the trustees? The College is currently recruiting faculty prospects for next year and surely would have been aided by dropping this archaic restriction on academic freedom.

Why was not the same commission’s proposal to drop certain intimidating religious questions from Davidson’s application forms debated? The commission suggested that these questions alienate potential applicants; it seems obvious that an all-male institution can no longer afford to needlessly alienate capable applicants. Examples from other commission reports are too numerous to list here, but the technique should be clear. Gloss over changes with the right amount of rhetoric, stay away from sensitive areas, and delay the effects of your actions; then everybody’s happy.

Finally, what did Bruner mean when he said he wants the IFC to initiate action rather than react to outside pressure? Did he mean that the IFC will administer next year's anti-rush? (So much for humor.) Or does he hope to challenge the College and the student body to fulfill their responsibility to offer all the students a modicum of social life? What all this means, I think, is that Spencer and Bruner (and Coble and Burney, for that matter) can take advantage of their various authorities and initiate the changes needed for the College’s welfare or they can delay such change until further delay would be economically or otherwise disastrous. At any rate, let us not confuse their rhetoric with their actions.

‘Rashomon’ Recounts Trial: Moral Question Not Solved

A REVIEW By BILL DAVENPORT

While rain drums down on the eve of the end of the world, three men—a priest, a woodcutter, and a man—huddle in the shelter of a huge ruined Japanese temple. Stricken by what they describe as “the worst thing one has ever seen,” the priest and the woodsman discuss a trial they have witnessed.

Thus begins Akira Kurosawa's “Rashomon,” which means “In the Forest,” a film widely acclaimed since its release in 1951. The film is built around recollections of a trial based on an ancient Japanese myth, the Ryunosuke Akutagawa, a story of murder and seduction involving a bandit, a merchant, and the merchant's wife.

The story of the trial is complicated by four different versions of what happened. The priest and the woodcutter discuss them among the temple's ruins. The bandit contended that he had lured the couple into the forest and tied the husband to a tree. Finding that the woman enjoyed being seduced, he then untied the husband and killed him in a duel.

The merchant's wife admitted that she submitted to the bandit, but she claims that she untied her husband and begged him to kill her. Fainting and falling forward with her dagger in her hand, she had awakened to find she had stabbed the merchant in her fall.

The merchant's testimony, transmitted by a medium, said that his wife gladly fled with the bandit. Humiliated, the merchant leans forward to take the dagger, and as the scene fades out, seems about to stab himself.

The woodcutter, who was an eyewitness to the crime from his hiding place, claims that the merchant, unmoved at first by the treatment of his wife, fought the duel very reluctantly, and that the bandit slew him after considerable hesitation.

As the three men discuss the crime, the priest hears a cry and discovers an abandoned baby. He wants to steal its covers, saying, “These days we have to act selfishly.”

The movie ends, however, when the woodcutter humbly offers to take the baby home and raise it as his own. Is this adoption an abrupt and saccharine reversal of the mood of the rest of the work? Would it not have been more fitting to end with the theft of the baby’s clothes and/or infanticide? The latter ending would have left us to conclude man is basically evil. But the story as it is is open-ended. Will the woodcutter really take the baby and take care of him?

The viewer is left without a settled moral point of view. Is a world of continued uncertainty and ambiguity not more unsettling than secure cynicism and bad faith?

THE SILENT MAJORITY STRIKES AGAIN.