Page Six, October 9, 1970

The Davidsonian

By

Davis: Burts Mustn’t See Records

By WINDY MARCH
Staff Writer

Dr. William Davis, college physician, said Monday that the present system of handling student medical records forces him to violate professional ethics and has led the infirmary to neglect students with drug problems.

Under the present system, Davis said, the records, which are kept on tapes, go to the office of the dean of students to be typed, since there is simply not time for the infirmary staff to type the records.

The dean of students has free access to the records, and this, said Davis, is a violation of ethical practices, by which all records should be strictly confidential.

Davis said he knew of at least two cases of students on bad trips last year who went to hospitals in Charlotte rather than to the infirmary, for fear of having their records exposed.

He suggested that there might be cases of students who simply do not seek medical help for drug problems for the same reason.

In case of venereal disease, said Davis, the nurses in the office type the records. To send such records elsewhere, he said, would simply be too great a violation of privacy.

A part-time secretary in his office, Davis said, would solve the problem. Since he began practice at Davidson College, he has been trying to make such an arrangement.

The principal objection to this, said Davis, comes from Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr.

Davis said Burts wants access to the files in order to know if a student will miss schoolwork as a result of illness.

A meeting has been arranged between Davis, Burts, and college president Samuel R. Spencer Jr. to discuss the problem. Davis said he did not know Spencer’s attitude toward the problem, nor could he predict the likely outcome of such a meeting.

Davis expressed some concern at this continuing violation of the confidential nature of student medical records. It would probably take less than two hours of secretarial work a day, he said, to solve the problem.

Publicity Aimed At Court’s Image

By ALEC HOON
Staff Writer

The Honor Court, reacting to recent complaints about its methods and effectiveness of the honor code, has recently responded with discussions and pamphlets aimed at improving the court’s tarnished image.

Junior John Porter, a member of the Honor Court, said, “To make the honor system more effective, it must be given some publicity.”

The discussions and pamphlets will define the workings of the Court and Code and hopefully stimulate open discussion on the merits and failings of the system.

Porter felt that there could be two worthwhile results of the publicity. The first would be a more general understanding of Honor Code offenses among members of the student body, hopefully leading to a reduction in the number of violations.

Porter also hopes that a more effective Honor Code will result from the consideration of new ideas.

The first discussions were held in September in each of the freshmen residence halls. Moderated by members of the court, the discussions ranged from outlining the provisions of the Code to the judicial processes of the Court itself.

One of the main reasons for these sessions was to familiarize freshmen with the Code early in the year so that they would not blunder into a violation.

An open question and answer session is now being tentatively planned to discuss the honor system, focusing on where it needs improvement and why.

The Honor Court hopes that this session will produce constructive criticism which can then be used to evaluate the whole system.

To help the student understand the feelings of individual professors on the honor system, the Honor Court sent out letters last week to all teachers urging them to make their position clear on testing and laboratory data.

The letters asked that professors remind students not to bring books or notes into class on the day of a review.

With regard to labs, the letters asked professors to make sure that their individual lab policies are clearly understood by their students.

A pamphlet is now being written on the honor system with explanations on the way it works and on trial procedure.

In addition, the Honor Court recently has been meeting to discuss possible changes in the code. A mock trial was held last Thursday for the purpose of familiarizing new court members with the trial process.

Porter said that full cooperation of all students is necessary if the Honor Court is to “function smoothly and to be a positive force at Davidson.” He invited the “questions, suggestions, and criticisms” of interested persons.

FOOTBALL WEEKEND
ORDER A BUCKET

BEFORE AND AFTER THE GAME FOR CHICKEN, SHRIMP, OR FISH

COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE

Kentucky Fried Chicken

503 S. Broad Mooresville, N.C. Phone 664-1505

Hours:
Monday 1-5 p.m.
Wednesday and Friday 9 a.m. ‘til Noon.

For Information on:

Announcing Another First For Davidson!

A Travel Information Center

Located in THE VILLAGE STORE
Come In and See Florence Cole

1. EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL
2. PLEASURE TRAVEL
3. EUROPEAN CAR PURCHASE and RENTAL
4. SPECIAL STUDENT PROGRAMS

FOR GROUP AND INDIVIDUAL TRAVEL