Unbeaten Delts And Pikas Dominate IMAC Basketball

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The Pikas and the Delts head for a showdown tonight as both remain undefeated after the first week of play in IMAC basketball. Both had to survive tough games against top challengers to protect their perfect slates, as competition was fierce in all games.

The Pikas outlasted the Machis on Friday night, 58-55, as Floyd Strand pumped in 25 points. Big Mike Dickens led all scorers with 31 for the Machis, as the Pikas rallied from a 46-44 deficit at the end of the third quarter to pull out the victory. Clutch free throw shooting sealed the verdict.

The Pikas had an easier time with the Fijis on Monday night, pulling away after a close first half for an 85-66 triumph. Again Strand paced the victors, putting in 27 points, with help from Gary Scibal who had 20. Rick Snipes tossed in 27 to pace the losers. Strand and Mark Affeldt had 14 apiece as the Pikas crushed the Snus 88-49, despite 27 points by the Snus' Steve Hayes on Tuesday night. In Wednesday's action, the Pikas coasted to their fifth straight win, 61-33 over the SPEs. Affeldt led the way with 13, while Kent Rhodes topped the losers with 11.

The Delts encountered unexpected trouble from the SAEs on Friday, pulling away in the closing moments for a 59-51 win. Gene Early took game honors with 25 points for the Delts, and Lynn Himes threw in 15 for the SAEs. After flattening the KAs 89-36 behind Early and Ed Dobbs on Tuesday, the Delts had to rally in the final quarters to defeat the Kappa Sigs 57-51 on Wednesday. After trailing most of the way, the Delts finally pulled even at 46 all in the fourth quarter, and a pair of field goals each by Early and Dobbs and free throws by Marshall Case and John McCammon enabled the Delts to wrap it up. Bill Barnhill paced the Sigs with 19, as Early and Dobbs each contributed 11 to the Delts' attack.

The Indies 'A' team, after losing to the Pikas on opening night, came back strong to post four straight wins and remain in contention. They crushed the Pi-Kapps (doesn't everybody?) 80-22 on Thursday, and then knocked off the Gamms 62-44 the following night, behind Jim May’s 20 markers. Charlie Parks paced the losers, who played without star Ricky Snipes, with 13. On Monday, the Indie 'A' team won an intra-squad game from the 'B' team, 68-45, coasting after leading 41-21 at halftime. Dave Wasserman fired in 22 points, and May added 19. Doug Haynes and Herb Clegg paced the losers with 13 and 12 respectively, as scoring ace John Saunders missed the action. Wednesday, the Indies whipped the SAEs 66-50, as George Hannen tallied 20 points. Charlie Brockwell had 17 to pace the losers.

The Machis, after dropping the nip-and-tuck duel with the Pikas, edged the SAEs on Monday, 69-46, as Dickens, the league scoring leader, poured in 33 points. The following night, the Machis went into overtime before succumbing 59-58 as Paul Nelson flipped in a 20-footer with 4 seconds left. Nelson and Tim Groom paced the victors with 16 and 15 respectively as Dickens, who didn't arrive until halftime, had only nine.

The Gamms, capable of beating anybody with Snipes, but much weaker without him, as they often are, knocked off the Sigs 41-40 in overtime on Thursday, but lost to the Indies 'A' and the Pikas before whipping the Indie 'B's on Tuesday 61-39. Mike Mikolayunas pumped in 12 points for the Gamms, and Bill Funderburk with 11 paced the losers, who trailed 35-12 at the half. Wednesday night, the Gamms pulled off a sensational rally to nip the KAs 61-59 in overtime. Scotty Nicholson scored 14 of his team's last 16 points and then sank a 20-footer at the buzzer to win it. He topped all scorers with 22, as Lou Williams had 18 for the losers.

The Betas are 3-2, after wins over the ATOs 60-47, the SPEs 64-37, and the Sigma Nus 47-43. John Baker had 17 points to pace the victory over the Taus, who were led by Bob Peele. Baker hit for 24 against the Sig Eps, as Wade Sheppard tallied 17 for the losers.

(Staff Photo by Thomas)
AN INDEPENDENT WAY OF LIFE
Jim May scores for the Indie A’s against the Indie B’s.

The Davidsonian
January 23, 1970
Page Five

Petrie And Hummer Pace Potent Tigers

By DON PARMAN
Sports Editor

Things have been rough for the Davidson Wildcats the last couple of weeks and they don't promise to get any better. Following last Saturday's upset at the hands of an aroused St. Joseph's team, the Wildcats had another struggle against Frank Selvy's rapidly improving Furman team. Tomorrow night the opposition will be Princeton and it promises to be another hard-fought contest. The Tigers will take the court tomorrow afternoon with several familiar faces in the lineup. Heading the list are...

ROTC Supplies Three 'Cat Assistant Coaches

By A. W. TURNER, JR.
Asst. Sports Editor

Just a glance at any Davidson athletic team will show anyone that ROTC instructors do not only teach military science. This year's group of officers has kept up the tradition of helping coach Wildcat teams by being involved with football, basketball, and baseball.

The college's most successful football season was partly due to the assistance of Maj. Harold E. Phillips. Phillips worked along with David Fagg with the defense. He also was responsible for getting the "scrubs" to know and be able to run the coming opponent's offense against the 'Cats' defense. His work here with ROTC kept Phillips near Davidson most of the time, but he did go on three road trips to Guilford, Furman, and Citadel. Phillips played both baseball and football in high school at Selma, N.C. On the gridiron, he was a linebacker and a center.

The newest addition to the ROTC staff, Maj. Thomas Dixon, is probably the best athlete in the department. An assistant with the freshman basketball team, Dixon was a cager for Tuskegee Institute for three years. Dixon also has had some high school coaching experience.

Depth Dampens Outlook For Swimmers’ Opener

By RICK BUSH
Sports Writer

The Wildcat swim team looks toward today’s three o'clock opener with a sort of apprehensive optimism. Physically, the 'Cats are in good shape, but Coach Tom Stevens is worried about depth. Clemson will be hotly favored to take first and second in most events, giving them a point advantage. The clever man-team 45 spread so thin that Clemson picks up eight points with no competition in the diving since Davidson does not have a diver this year.

Davidson's second problem will be inexperience. The team is predominately freshmen and several of them have never swum competitively before. Clemson has already opened their season, suffering a lopsided loss at the hands of a strong Virginia team. "We have a chance to win, but we'll have to swim at our best," Stevens predicted. "Clemson is out for a win, they want to beat somebody."

Although a victory will necessarily be a team effort, Stevens is counting on several of his swimmers for strong individual performances. Captain Mac Davis has the best chance to win his freestyle sprint events. Doug Stott, the team’s only other senior, has been looking strong in the butterfly. Freshman Hunter Brown has shown promise in the distance events. Stevens added that the whole team has been working hard since the holidays, and that everyone has shown tremendous improvement. An opening win would, in Steven's opinion, give the Wildcats a good chance at a successful season.perience, serving first as an assistant and then as head coach for track and basketball at Lexington, Ga. Maj. Frederick Brigham helped with Davidson's baseball team last spring. "My main job was spring training," Brigham said, commenting on the work. "I coached more then since head coach Tom Stevens was occupied with the swimming team. Then during the season, I was the third base coach." Brigham also mentioned the problem of not being able to go on road trips, especially since many of the games were scheduled for Tuesday afternoon, the familiar drill day. Brigham played baseball in high school and college. At St. Lawrence, he played first base and pitched a little.

Col. Virgil Foster, head of the Davidson ROTC department, encourages the officers to help the sports department in "whatever way they can." "We want to assist in any way we can," he said. "It is good for our people to keep in shape, and at the same time we render help to the college. I also feel that our people can learn to get along with the students. It doesn't really matter whether they are participating in the ROTC program or not. The involvement helps us understand the student of today." Foster added that he not only encouraged the ROTC department to help with athletics but with any aspect of the college community. "I encourage them to help in any way possible," he said.

As to his own athletic experience, Foster recalled that he played basketball at Wofford, a school which then scheduled the Wildcats. He still regularly exercises in the gym and urges the ROTC instructors who do not have an assistant coaching post to do the same just to stay in shape. The practice of officers helping with the athletics teams is an old one. Col. Frederick Outlaw, head of the Davidson ROTC department until this year, said the tradition was here when he arrived in 1964. "Maj. Donald Campbell, Maj. Harold Fraley, and Maj. Joe Crawley all helped the coaching staff while I was head of the department," said Outlaw. He too added that he encouraged the men to participate in the athletic program and help the school in any way possible. Outlaw himself took an active part in Davidson athletics during his years as Professor of Military Science on this campus.

On the list are John Hummer and Jeff Petrie, Princeton's two top scorers of the year. Hummer, a 6-7 center, has carried the bulk of the load for the Tigers this year with a 20.3 points per game average. The senior has also collected 9.3 rebounds each game. Although he has missed four games this year, Petrie has maintained his position as the team’s leading scorer with an average of 23.3 per contest. Both Hummer and Petrie have been hitting on close to half of their shots from the field. The Tigers will present a front line with size similar to that of the Wildcats. Along with Hummer, 6-4 Robert Ryder and 6-3 Bill Sickler will face the Wildcats' big three. Sickler, who started last year for Princeton, has been averaging 10.8 points and 5.7 rebounds per game. Ryder has contributed about seven points from his forward spot. Reginald Bird will open with Petrie at guard. Bird is averaging eight points a game despite a .361 percentage from the floor. Alfred Dufty and John Arbogast are top reserves for the Tigers.

Princeton plays a tough defense to compensate for a less than overpowering strength on the boards. On the season, their opponents have managed to hit on less than 40 percent of their shots. The Tigers' defense has held their opponents to an average of 65.8 points per game. Those opponents have included several major teams. In their biggest game of the season, the Tigers came within an eyelash of defeating the Bruins of UCLA, falling 76-75. Two losses came at the hands of Ivy power Pennsylvania. Michigan and Villanova have dealt the Tigers their other defeats. On the winning side of the ledger are wins over Maryland, Indiana, and most recently, Penn State by a 77-38 count.

The games are one of the Wildcats’ rare afternoon games, with the freshman game with Sandhills Junior College slated to begin at 1:30 p.m. Last Saturday night was another of the rare games for Davidson, and head coach Terry Holland would be more than happy if he never saw such rarities again this year. The Hawks of St. Joseph's looked as if they had been saving themselves all season for the Wildcats and overcame an 11-point Davidson lead to win going away. Led by Mike Hoover and Dan Kelly, the Hawks stopped the Wildcats by a 90-81 margin. Holland pointed out that St. Joseph's "played a real good ball game." He also observed that the Wildcats failed to come up with the good scoring effort from the front line that they needed to win.

THE LITTLE FINE-FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

New York to London
Summer Vacation Trips
Round Trip $169
Now Filling
Small Deposit & Payment
Send for Free Details
Student Globe Roamers
Box 6575
Hollywood, Fla. 33021

Rendezvous in Charlotte at:
La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
— Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Spaghetti — Phone 376-2576

During the next three months, a special afternoon Physical Education Class, conducted by the football coaches and emphasizing overall body conditioning, will be conducted.
Time: 4:30 Monday through Friday (Attend 3 days each week.)
Place: Assemble on the bottom floor of the gym.
Credit: P.E. credit is almost guaranteed. Any Davidson student can participate. Freshmen and Sophomores get regular credit. Juniors and Seniors can use it to make up credit. The course will include weight lifting, running coordination work, and body agility work; improved body condition.

Can you qualify?
They're young. Our average new officer is 26.
They're flexible. The kind who rush out to meet change.
They're self-starters. Because they know stagnation is not our style.
We need managers. You need a job. Does this suggest anything to you?
Why not see C&S, the billion-dollar bank at the crossroads of the South? Where 78 out of the top 100 U.S. companies bank.
C&S' Charles Hoskins, AVP, will be on your campus next week. Like to meet him? Check with your placement office now!
C&S The Citizens and Southern Banks in Georgia for banking’s New Breed.