Page Two October 16, 1970 — The Davidsonian

Sides Prepare For Fraternity Row ... Senate Favors Alternative Plan For Fraternities

(Continued from Page One)

establishment of a central buying system, guided by an autonomous body of students. “Our recommendations begin with the class of
1975. We propose that the freshmen this year be consulted as to what form their social life takes this year,
but regarding the class of 1975 and beyond, we recommend that prior to next fall the freshmen be randomly assigned
to one of these nine eating clubs. They would be reassigned at the end of each term, thus gaining a
look at three different houses on the court. At the end of the year, they would self-select a house. The
freshmen would still eat at the Union, but their social life would be at whichever house they were affiliated with
at the moment. Upperclassmen would be on a self-selection basis also. They could change at the end of every term,
or they could stay in the same house for their sophomore and remaining years at Davidson. Our final recommendation is
that a representative body of students, perhaps the Inner Eating Club Council (IECC), regulate all social functions. This could be
brought about by a basic monetary allotment for each house for individual activities while allowing the individual houses to make
requests from the money that goes into this representative body. All of the money collected from the social fee would
go into the fund handled by this IECC or representative body. Mr. Smith would serve in a consultant role under
this new system.”

Monday

At the meeting, all but two of these proposals received less than unanimous votes: the non-selective membership principle was passed,
12-4, and the proposal that only those affiliated with on-campus houses pay the housing fee passed, 13-5. “These proposals aren't
final, in any rate,” commented Coble. “This outline is just a basic statement of the minutes of the meeting, and
we plan to discuss it more in the future.” The printed recommendations added one postscript about the organization of the
eating clubs: “The individual organization can decide how that organization is to operate. We expect that in some cases the
basic “fraternity” group would form a nucleus for that organization to which there would be an influx of freshmen, and
self-selected upperclassmen would be added. In other cases, a group might decide to have no organization whatsoever and serve purposes
just of eating together as a small group. The frequency of social activities is another moot point and within the
decision realm of each organization. The basic premise, however, is that each organization can be whatever it wants to be
while allowing every individual at Davidson College to have a place to belong.”

Self Schedule

(Continued from Page One)

presented the proposal to the faculty and was granted a free hand in working out the mechanics for implementation with
the registrar and the EPC. Commenting on the receptive nature of the faculty, Bevan said, “I think basically the feeling
was ‘Let’s try it.’” Coble, however, attributed much of the success at the meeting to “Bevan’s charisma.” There were several
objections to the proposal. The most vital one questioned the strain of self-scheduled exams on the honor system. Another argument
was that a student on his own would stack his exam schedule, promoting wholesale cramming at the expense of serious
studying. Bevan remarked that “cramming is cramming,” and said he did not see how the proposal would affect this technique
for studying at all. The basic problems in implementing the program involve the added pressure on professors to meet deadlines
and arrangements for students to set up their schedules ahead of time. Speaking in favor of the proposal, Bevan stated:
“We ought to be providing optimum opportunity to show optimum performance. Maybe this step will provide some impetus to try
some other approaches to evaluation.”

The Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
JOHN McLEAN
RUSS MERRITT
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH
TOM VERNON

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
DON PARMAN

Sports Editor:
ERNIE SHIPE

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
SCOTT DAVIDSON

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Assistant Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS
DARYL WILLIAMS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
BOB STRAND

Contributors this week:
Joe Tierney, Hal Canter, Alec Hoon, Robert Touchton, John Fine, Joe Earle, Charlie Terrell, Cathy Ross, Jeff Allender, Bill Eskridge,
Doug Brown, David Hanig, and Peter Michael.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.To choose what
kind of social alternative he wants.” “This system would provide good aspects of mobility and variety,” Coble added. “It puts
the choice for a social system back in the hands of the individual, not in the hands of the organization,”
Carl Patterson Livengood. One polled fra-, Some Houses Charging Improper Representation By SCOTT DAVIDSON News Editor During the last week
before the trustees’ vote on the fraternity issue, the pro- and anti-fraternity factions have conducted fierce campaigns for the representation
of their viewpoints in the trustees’ meeting yesterday and today. For the first time since the address of Samuel R.
Spencer, Jr., president of the college, the group favoring the “status quo” has taken a strong stance in readiness for
the coming confrontation. Some students strongly opposed the method of representation devised for the presentation of the issues to the
trustees. Three students, Ran Coble, representing the student body in general, Charlie Ralston, representing the anti-fraternity interests, and Johnny Bruner,
representing the Interfraternity Council (IFC) were scheduled to speak to the trustees. The pro-fraternity faction argued that representation of their
viewpoint would be inadequate. They said that since the fraternities were split among themselves, Bruner in respect to his position
as president of the IFC, would not be able to present a strong enough defense for the present fraternity system.
Bruner admitted that his primary concern is to see that “all points of view are represented.” Bruner explained that a
group of students met with Dean of Students, Richard C. Burts, on Tuesday and Wednesday, in an effort to seek
better representation. Bruner noted, “A crowd felt that there was no strong advocate of their point of view.” Burts said
that he would do everything in his power to choose a representative to present a platform to the trustees. “It
is my interest that everything be brought out into the open,” he said. In the past week, two major surveys
were taken by fraternity members and the other polled members of the freshmen class. In the first, a petition was
distributed to each of the twelve fraternities asking for affirmation of the present fraternity system by signatures to the petition.
The strongest vote of affirmation came from the SAE fraternity with 92 percent of their members supporting the petition. Second
were the KA’s (86 percent) followed by the Sigma Chis (84 percent), the Sig Eps (74 percent), and the Kappa
Sigs (64 percent). The Phi Delts, ATOs and Sigma Nus returned their petitions with less than 50 percent of their
members signing, and the Betas, the Pi Kapps, the Phi Gams, and the Pikas returned their petitions unsigned. There were
many critics of this system. One pointed out that although the Phi Delt fraternity registered one of the lowest votes
of support, a simple hand vote administered Wednesday night revealed that over 90 percent of the members present favored preserving
the present system in lieu of accepting any of the proposed alternatives. Patterson said, “We do not claim the validity
in any way, but we think it represents the way the fraternities are spread on the present issues.” The second
survey was administered to the members of the freshmen class. A questionnaire was distributed to every freshman asking whether they
were in favor of participating in rush. Patterson emphasized that this was not necessarily to indicate support of the actual
fraternity system. Patterson stated that 80.7 percent of the freshmen responded to the survey, and of this percentage, 83.4 favored
proceeding with rush while only 16.6 percent were opposed. Bill Ralston, newly elected President of the freshman class, said, “Like
most all freshmen, I came expecting a chance to join a fraternity, and I am discouraged that I won't be
exposed. “It doesn’t bother me like it does a lot of freshmen. It won't be something I can’t overcome,” he
said. “But I think about every freshman wants to go out for rush, whether to join or not.” When asked
if he felt both sides of the issue had been presented, he said, “Honestly, I don't think they have. “There
was a student atmosphere and a senate atmosphere present before freshmen got here and before I went to a senate
meeting. In other words, the senate had discussed fraternities prior to our first meeting and we voted the first night.”
The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity has opened its doors to all students, excluding non-members only from their meeting. What could
be easily interpreted here as a strong endorsement of Spencer, did not receive too much reaction on the fraternity court.
John Bolinger, president of ATOs, said, “I don’t believe it will have a great effect on the trustees, Spencer or
the student body. As far as stunning the fraternities, I think THE DAVIDSONIAN has overstated the case.”
