Burts, Oswalt, Terry Get New Administration Jobs
By ALEC HOON, Staff Writer, and SCOTT DAVIDSON, News Editor

Three important Davidson officials have been switched to new positions in a dramatic shake-up. Dean of Students Richard C. Burts
Jr. will succeed present registrar Jay Oswalt as Registrar, effective January 1. Oswalt will become the Director of Instructional Development,
a newly created post. Burts' position as dean will be assumed by William H. Terry, who is presently the minister
of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

In looking at his future position, Burts stated, "I will have a lot of learning to do as registrar. I
am not going into my new job with any startling platform. What I hope to do is to continue the
good work presently being done there."

When asked to explain his concept of the office of Dean of Students, Terry stated, "There has occurred in the
last few years a demise of the office of Dean of Students in the area of discipline of the individual."

Energy

Energy is the key characteristic sought in the student who is chosen by the N.C. Fellows Program, according to John
D. Kelton, professor of psychology and Davidson director of the program. The N.C. Fellows Program, which has groups at Davidson,
North Carolina State, East Carolina, Wake Forest, and North Carolina A&T, is designed to seek out potential leaders and to
provide them with opportunities for self-development.

The program selects its participants through a series of interviews, first on the Davidson campus by appointment and then during
a weekend at the Presbyterian center Montreat by invitation. In the latter series of interviews, leaders from the outside take
part in the interviews.

Considerable criticism has been leveled at the program, and especially at its selection procedures. "The problem is, who is going
to get in?" said junior Mark Meza, one of the Fellows, "and they have highly fallacious criteria for answering this."

"They selected the original fellows (in 1967) with some kind of idea of dynamic, 'Kennedyesque' individuals who are going to
lead people," he continued. "It’s fair to say that the judgment makers have been that kind of people and have
looked for boys who would develop leadership in social problems, government, education, and business," Kelton said.

"It has evolved into a system of courts of faculty and students responsible for this area. This, in my judgment,
frees me to shape the office so that it can be of help to students in all areas of their
life at Davidson."

Both Burts and Terry saw important changes in the contemporary Davidson student. Burts saw an individuality in students that has
only begun to emerge in recent years. "There is little that holds students together today. Where the administration has lost
influence, students have gained it," he said. "But it appears to me that the student body has taken the freedoms,
but not the responsibilities. Everybody’s business has become nobody's business."

To illustrate his point, Burts pointed to the Code of Responsibility of which he said he was "apprehensive." He did
not feel that students were enforcing it. Using drinking as an example, he said that the Code permits drinking, but
not drunkenness. What appalled him was the fact that since the Code has been in operation (October 1968) there has
been no one charged.

He stressed, however, that the program and its selection methods were not meant to exclude creative people in areas such
as the arts. Meza pointed out that the program did not include any artists. "I think there’s some snobbery involved
there," he said.

"The program at Ohio University, on which this one was based, was inclined toward all sorts of leadership," Kelton said.
"What has happened here is accidental. Ohio had a girl whose ambition was to write a novel. The point was
not what she wanted to do, but how she communicated it."

Meza described the lack of artistically oriented people in the program as partially due to the nature of the Montreat
weekend. "The main characteristic is that..."the interviews there are highly intense, highly emotional,” he said. Montreat doesn’t really delve into
the individual; the interview challenges on emotional and intellectual levels. I don't know whether (the ability to respond to) this
constitutes leadership or creativity.” Senior Gary Cash, who is the student head of the program, agreed that there was a
good deal of pressure in the selection process. “The initial process selected people able to respond to pressure questions,” he
said. “Someone would do well only if he was a decisive type of person. A more sensitive person might not
be able to put up with this questioning.”

“I don't see the fellows bringing back something to the campus. Other than helping a few individuals lucky enough to
get in, the program doesn't give anything to the campus," said Meza. However, Kelton denied that this was the case,
mentioning that Fellows have set up open colloquia on campus for interested students in many fields, brought visitors to the
campus, and been involved in helping some non-Fellows get summer placement. Selection for the Fellows will begin next week with
open houses to be held in their offices in Lingle Manor.

Terry, who will inherit this situation when he takes his new post, said, “The contemporary students’ attitudes and governance procedures
make it impossible for a dean to act as they have historically. This may be a difficult adjustment for a
lot of people, even in the student body, since the office of dean has always carried with it a cloud
of punishment. It is my impression that student life should develop along positive lines rather than the formerly negative ones
where student life was governed by so many ‘no-nos.’”

AN ANALYSIS By WINDY MARCH Staff Writer

Davidson's politician-in-residence, James G. Martin, was recently described as the Republican Party's “golden boy” from Mecklenburg County in an article
in the Raleigh News and Observer. His political opponents have described him as ambitious and concerned about his image. He'd
like to be a congressman, and almost ran for it last fall, when it was thought Jonas was retiring—but Jonas
didn’t retire, and Martin supported Jonas. He describes himself as a “progressive conservative.” He’s a Nixon man, and thinks himself
to the right of Republicans such as Goodell or Lindsay. But he is concerned about such issues as pollution. In
1967 he founded the Council of Governments, an organization of representatives from several nearby county governments, the original aim of
which was to facilitate widespread measures against pollution.

Martin denies that national politics is his main ambition. He started in politics as County Commissioner, which, he said, is
a “poor starting place” for national or statewide ambitions. He was recently inaugurated chairman of the Mecklenburg Board of County
Commissioners.

OPEN 9-8 The Hub MONDAY - SATURDAY

N. C. FELLOWS OPEN HOUSE SCHEDULE

Mon. 3-5 p.m. - office, Kennedy, PACE, admission Charlotte; Wally Kernodle, United Christian Ministry, Cincinnati; Gary Long, International Student Service,
New York; Mike Wheeler, Office of Public Instruction, Raleigh. 8-9 p.m. Study Danny Clodfelter, Center for the Responsive Law; Bill
Lineaweaver, Research, Gainesville, Fla.; Mark Meza, Individual Project; Jimmy Trussell, Institute for the Study of Health and Society, Washington

Tue. 10-11 a.m. - Lester Strong, WBT, WBTV, Charlotte; Jack Thomas, Local Government Intern, Charlotte 2-3 p.m. Jody Turner, Assistant
to the Mayor, Jacksonville, Fla.; Lawrence Wilkinson, Institute of Ecology, Athens, Ga.; Gary Cash, Assistant to President Terry Sanford, Duke;
Rich Cowart, N. C. Leadership Institute, Greensboro 3-5 p.m. Gene Early, Wright Institute, Berkeley; Steve Engstrom, International Labor Organization, Geneva,
Switzerland; Rob Hoy, ROTC Summer Camp; Joe Smith, ROTC Summer Camp; Weldon Shenck, Investment Firm, Charleston 8-9 p.m. Harrison Higgins,
Inner-city Program, Savannah

Wed. 7:30-8:30 p.m. Spencer Clark, J. Calvin Presbyterian Church, Nashville; Bill Endy, Parkway Project, Philadelphia 8:30-9:30 p.m. Howard Ramagli, Office
of Public Instruction, Raleigh; Steve Salyer, Ohio Leadership Dynamics Institute, Cincinnati

(Advertisement)
