The Davidsonian - “THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO FEBRUARY 6, 1970

... On Second Thought

All of the excitement and controversy which was anticipated prior to this week’s trustee meeting failed to materialize, but in the end, most people seemed surprisingly satisfied—rather unusual for trustee meetings. But within the wording of the trustee recommendations there lie some potential problems, which it might be wise to examine while the issues are still alive.

I

Wildcat football could hardly have picked a better year in which to excel, and that excellence was rewarded by the trustee decision to maintain a subsidized football program. In itself that decision is well-founded, but within the stipulation concerning funding of that program there lies a serious threat. By separating the football fund from the living endowment of the college and handing over a large part of the responsibility for that drive to an extra-campus organization, the college is placing its control over athletics in jeopardy. In a similar manner, the college is placing the football program in jeopardy. In the first place, there is a possibility that the Wildcat Club, by virtue of its control over the fund drive for football, might become even more vocal than in the past over the direction of the athletic program. There is nothing wrong with strong support, but the college must beware of the loss of control of the football program to a group of “results-for-our-money” lobbyists. In this respect, too, Wildcat football is placed in a most precarious position, to say the least. Trustee chairman Lingle pointed out that more than the recommended number of scholarships could be given if such an amount of money making that possible were raised. What was not said was that there is also the distinct possibility that the new system could leave Davidson football withering on the vine. A couple of poor seasons could make that possibility much more real, and poor seasons do make their appearances occasionally at Davidson. The question must be asked: if we examine the new plan realistically, will it really benefit the college that much? Or will it not provide more of a threat than a promise?

II

The recommendation that the college intensify its effort to enroll students from a variety of racial, economic, social, and geographical backgrounds is well presented. We call now for an early response on the part of the administration in order to meet the needs of the admissions department; progress can be made in this area immediately. The idea of abolishing any type of a quota system for such enrollment is also well-spoken, if it is meant that we should not limit the number of such enrollments. If, however, this statement is meant to relieve the pressure of finding more qualified black students, then it should be reconsidered. In this respect, the quota system played the beneficial role of initiating considerable positive action in this area. What should be imperative from the resolution as passed is the necessity of prompt and definite action in the recruiting of all qualified students of all origins.

III

The “willingness to consider” co-education had to be somewhat disappointing. It is almost like a “willingness to consider” saving money. Both are necessities, which can’t be cast off indifferently. But the trustees have cast the former off with such treatment. Because they considered the proposal of the Spencer Commission “beyond economic practicality,” they merely subscribed to the theory and let it go. There was no mention of who was to find a plan that was within economic practicality; there was only an endorsement of the idea. That is not enough. The college must labor quickly now to find such a plan, so that coeducation can be implemented at the earliest possible date. Though it is not good to rush into the issue blindfolded, neither is it practical to put it off repeatedly. The trustees must come to grips with the problem, either by appointing a study committee to draw up a workable plan or by delegating that responsibility. It cannot be cast aside.

IV

There is still a question regarding the future development of the college: when does it begin? The long-range projections indicate changes over the next 15 to 20 years as the endowment becomes sufficient to handle the northward expansion accepted by the Trustees. But there is a question as to when it will begin; what part of the plan will be implemented in the early stages? Fortunately, the new library will be begun almost as soon as plans are finished, and the architect has been contacted. But the other plans incorporated in the Dober, Paddock, and Upton report are hazy prognostications rather than potential realities. Whether we realize these vague recommendations depends largely on the ability of the administration to increase the living endowment of the college significantly. It is, therefore, imperative that the college begin soon, even today, to discover and gather the financial resources which alumni, foundations, and endowments have to offer. We must get started.

The Power And The Press

This week, which marks the initiation of a new editorial year, also anticipates the beginning of a new SGA government in a situation that has implications both for the SGA and THE DAVIDSONIAN. We are referring to the apparent attitude which Mr. Coble holds toward the administration of his predecessor, Peter Hobbie. During the remarkably similar campaigns of the three presidential candidates last month, one point in particular stood out as a point of agreement among the candidates. And that point was the opinion of all three that Hobbie had seriously overstepped the limitations of his office with regard to issues of national concern. All three claimed that Hobbie had misdirected his energies by turning himself away from the problems of students, in his concern about extra-campus issues, specifically the Vietnam Moratorium. Perhaps most seriously, they charged that Hobbie had misappropriated student funds in pursuing his interests in other areas. Now if such funds were used without the consent of the SGA Senate or whatever legal appropriations should have been used, then Coble and his associates have made a very valid point. But the appropriations of funds is not a question which we wish to debate here. What does concern us is the apparently widely held attitude that the SGA should limit itself and the school to matters endemic to this one campus. We are bothered by the opinion that we should turn ourselves inward to our own concerns and form committees or debate in assembly or do whatever else satisfies our desire to occupy our time by the busy but nevertheless petty exercise of our power. Now that is not to say that Coble cannot do a great deal for this campus or that there is not a great deal to be done. We are merely suggesting that a campus as isolated as Davidson’s and with a student body as homogeneous as Davidson’s may well benefit from occasional prodding to keep up with the mainstream of national intellectual concern. What we are saying to Coble is this: do the work on campus. Keep things running and improve them as you have promised in your platform. But do not react wrongly to Hobbie by ignoring issues which go beyond the Davidson campus. Campuses have always been sources of humanitarian and liberal concern, and now is no time for that to change. There should be a willingness to confront larger issues. Is not that willingness what extra-campus responsibility is all about? And where does that leave THE DAVIDSONIAN? It leaves us trying to adopt the same concern we urge on Mr. Coble. We too wish to be an active force for improving the campus. And we will speak out when we feel it is necessary for us to do so. But we will try not to speak out of isolation but out of a sense of the role that the SGA and THE DAVIDSONIAN can play to help make Davidson real to its students.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Holland Admonishes Spectators; Jones Attacks Hoyt’s Review

To the Editor:

The spontaneous cheer during the East Carolina game, although not repeated Tuesday night, deserves evaluation. I am sure that many who participated in the cheer felt they were merely giving voice to what others were thinking, including myself. I apologize for my behavior and fully intend to set a better example for our fans. We have played in some tough places this year, but what happened at Wake Forest, where the team and the playing floor were showered by ice, cups, and seat bolts, was by far the worst. The point is that such behavior is expected at Wake Forest while it is surprising here. We should strive to keep it this way and improve our fan behavior. Each individual spectator must accept the responsibility of refraining from booing or harassing the other team or the referees in any manner. We appreciate your support and do not want to inhibit it. Holler all you want to for the ‘Cats.

Terry Holland
Davidson, N. C.

To the Editor:

As I was leaving a showing of “Martyrs of Love,” I overheard a confused and disappointed student muttering something about “symbolism.” Then in THE DAVIDSONIAN I encountered Don Hoyt's castigation of the film as “Unadulterated Czechoslovakian ‘erdue.’”I believe that these reactions deserve a response. Because I appreciated "Martyrs of Love," these people will assume either that I have some special knowledge ("symbolism") which they lack, that I have peculiar tastes, or that I am "in fear of being considered gauche, old-fashioned, and square" (Hoyt's words). To the student who muttered "symbolism," I would admit that I did not logically comprehend everything, although I did perceive an order. I would also remark, however, that I have seen a fair number of films not usually shown at the local movie house.

Don Hoyt's reaction is the one I do not understand, because I do not believe he suffers from inadequate experience. He seemed to believe that he could praise an American film ("The Reivers") by disparaging a foreign one. His consideration of "Martyrs of Love" could scarcely be called critical. Excluding such fulminations as "trash as art" and "damn fool," he really does not say anything about the film. He ends by saying that the film is "excruciatingly bad," and then asks, "What more can be said?" His amassing epithets and closing with a rhetorical question suggest that no real attempt was made to understand or appreciate the film. Although he says that he tried to enter into the spirit of the film, he certainly gives little evidence of having done so.

In discussing "The Reivers," Hoyt sees fit to characterize the horse race sequence as "the most stunning... in film history." Anyone who can pronounce on all of film history certainly must have a broad acquaintance, and it would seem that he would be capable of writing a more analytical review.

Joe Jones '70
Davidson College

To the Editor:

A correction, please! The many nice things that you said about Mrs. Goudy and myself in your very gracious article in the January 23 issue can, of course, be readily discounted as being due to the rose-tinted glasses of our good friend, the outgoing editor. And it is very true that we are most interested in Davidson College and community, but especially the students. But I must not be credited with the Bible class which is meeting in the Union. That is strictly the product of the initiative of a group of freshmen—God bless 'em—who felt a need and did something about it. Then, because they knew I was interested, they invited us to join them. The credit is all theirs.

George Goudy
Davidson, N.C.

There is a connection between drug use and the New Left, with a higher incidence there of distant or poor intrafamily relations, reports Dr. Richard H. Blum in "Students and Drugs" (799 pp., Jossey-Bass Inc., San Francisco, $25). Among the family heritages of student drug users is a high incidence of drug use among parents, including alcohol and tobacco, and a liberal-permissive atmosphere, the report reveals. A major youthful search for new pleasures and experiences, a desire to be "cool" and "with it." It is difficult for the non-user to be aloof to the drug scene because of social pressure on metropolitan campuses where the majority has used marijuana. Thus the non-user becomes the unusual case: "Over the college years, the abstainers at least become users of approved drugs," Dr. Blum writes. Marijuana thus becomes an "approved" drug by student standards "and an unknown but probably large portion of some faculties as well, so that one must expect that even the upright will succumb to social pressure and personal titillation..."

Ironically, students are shunning tobacco because they are heeding the warnings about lung cancer and addiction; yet they smoke marijuana because it gives oral gratification, gives pleasure, it is not believed to be addictive, leaves no hangover, and, according to students interviewed, is also symbolic. "... The climate of civil disobedience, the availability of a set of moral justifications for active violation of the law, and the apparent inequities of present drug penalties... combine to give a sense of righteousness to the drug user on campus. If illicit drug use on campus is not only attractive... but is safe," the Blum survey declares. Control of either student drug traffic or use is difficult, if not impossible, the study points out. "Most adults are not eager for massive police action to invest campuses so that hundreds of thousands of their sons and daughters would be arrested. As the base number of marijuana-experienced students expands, so does the proportion willing to risk LSD, DMT, STP, opium, heroin and the like," Blum's investigators note. The survey covered drug use in middle- and upper-class colleges. The lower-class use of heroin ("H" or "hard stuff" in the vernacular, as well as of amphetamine or "speed") is expected to spread so that a certain homogeneity in use is to be expected in the coming years," he concludes.

I RESOLVE NEVER TO HISS AGAIN.
© Tickle Butterprion, Inc., 1970

The Marburg View
By DICK ANDERSON

Biafra’s Misery

The war in Biafra is over at last. All wars are tragic, but in that regard this one was rather special. There was the tragedy of the Biafran starvation. It was tragic that the most promising of Africa’s nations had to be torn this way, and it was tragic that that nation’s most energetic people had to waste their talents in an inevitably forlorn struggle. There was tragedy in the rioting that started the war, and there was worse tragedy in the Ibo’s belief that the other Nigerians were out to massacre them, for that belief is unlikely to die soon. But none of these matched up to what was ironically the worst tragedy of them all: the Western effort to relieve Biafra’s starvation.

Why was that the tragedy? Not only because the effort never succeeded, not even because it was doomed from the start. The real tragedy of the relief effort was that with the best intentions, with hard work, with the acceptance of danger and of sacrifice, it accomplished in the end precisely the opposite of what it set out to do. The relief effort gave the Biafrans hope and just a trickle of supplies, enough to prolong the war. But the relief could never give Biafra enough food to fight on, and food is far more basic to an army than weaponry. As a result, the war went on deadlocked, and more and more Biafrans began to take on the appearance of the babies one saw on the demonstrators’ posters, with their huge heads and eyes and bellies, and their pencil-thin limbs, skin stretched so taut it seemed even a nurse’s gentle touch would bruise it.

There was never even any chance that Biafra could be meaningfully supplied by airlift. There were too many people in an area too disorganized. Even inside the final lines there were far more people than there were in Berlin during the largest successful airlift ever tried. That airlift was carried out by the U.S. armed forces, who for all their failings are very good at that sort of thing. The money and prestige of the United States stood behind it; behind this airlift were some churches and various international organizations. It succeeded beyond any reasonable expectations, but even such success meant only that the Biafrans would keep fighting and starving, hoping the West would force the Nigerian leader Yakubu Gowon to give up the fight.

Gowon has been blamed for both the failure of the airlift and for the starvation, but such blame is not really fair. Gowon was in a similar position to Grant's at Vicksburg, where the people ate rats and eventually their belts before surrendering. Grant did not want the people to starve, but had the British come sailing up the Mississippi and demanded permission to feed the Vicksburg citizens, Grant would hardly have given it as long as he had the power to resist. Gowon did not have much power to resist, but to perform his duty as leader of his country he had to keep the aid from being effective. So the Biafrans kept getting a trickle that kept them trying and hoping, but all that could be accomplished was that more Biafrans starved.

Odumegwu Ojukwu, the Biafran leader, is not really to blame either. He did what he saw to be necessary for the survival of his people, and there was nothing wrong with his courage or his struggle, only perhaps with his vision. It was not a pointless struggle, either. Historically the inland tribes of Nigeria have been economically dependent on access to the sea through the so-called "Oil Rivers," which are really the delta mouths of the Niger and which were in Biafran territory. Gowon knew that Nigeria had to have Biafra to exist. The power relationships had to work themselves out and decide whether Nigeria would continue to exist. The relief effort could only prolong the working out of those relationships without really ameliorating the effects of the struggle.

Does that mean the relief effort should never have been made? Answer: that is precisely what it means. That is not a very pleasant answer, especially when translated into terms of not helping starving babies, but there it stands, sharp and clear. Intervention is acceptable when one has the power to intervene effectively and is sure that this is in the interest of those involved. Those who intervened in Biafra did not have that power, and the intervention was in nobody’s interest, not even theirs. That is a lesson that one might apply when one thinks about some other part of the world, too, be it Southeast Asia, Greece, the Mideast, or anywhere else.

by Johnny Hart