The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO MAY 15, 1970

The Sixth Time Around

We certainly hope that with the conclusion of the fraternity analysis series one striking point has come home to all readers: for the results obtained, this is probably the most over-studied, over-talked problem at Davidson. Rehashed over the past decade, this situation has continued virtually without change. No other policy area of the college has seen more committee or commission meetings with more faculty and student time apparently wasted. Indeed with five major study reports in as many years, it seems odd that one can find people yet discussing the situation. It is not that an inadequate number of avenues for change were explored — certainly not. Many worthwhile suggestions have been studied and then reported out of committee. Some of these required large capital outlays, but many required just direction by the college. Repeatedly it has been determined that the present fraternity system requires immediate and marked change. We, too, believe that the system is harmful and inadequate and must not continue as presently structured. What we really deplore is the complete dominance of the fraternities over social life. Quite a few suggestions have been made for eliminating this dominance, one of the most impressive of which is de-emphasis of fraternities through a more dorm-oriented social life with added Union activities. We consider this to be the best alternative available. Moreover, we think that many of the changes which would be associated with this new direction should be made immediately — next year that is. Surprisingly, despite the seeming momentum created by the various studies, some mysterious restraining force has kept many people, apparently dedicated, from taking any positive, major step. What this force could be cannot possibly be imagined unless it is hidden somewhere in the tail end of the faculty and administration or in the heads of the trustees. While it is clear that small groups have certain developmental and educational values, two points are extremely clear: 1) that fraternities dominate the social life here to the detriment of all and 2) considerable damage is done to members of, and to the persons rejected by, the fraternities. Yet though this is admitted by nearly all concerned faculty members and freshmen and many fraternity men, we have been blatantly flippant about the problem and remarkably able to completely forget such experiences as Rush and Greek Week except when they are immediately upon us. Amazingly enough, though admitting much damage done to themselves and others by our present social structure and admitting no real brotherhood other than that found in any small group, upperclassmen still justify propagating the system by their presence solely on the grounds of convenience alone. We ask, “What about the others?” As has been pointed out very clearly in the present analysis, change in the present social system is unlikely from within — meaning from the students. And if capital improvements must be made first, it is impossible for such changes to come from the transients. Therefore, we look to the continuing college community for direction. We do not doubt their competence to give adequate study to the problem or to make some carefully studied recommendations. After ten years and five reports, however, their leadership is obviously in question. Nearly a year now since the issuance of the commission reports to President Spencer, it is just about time the President, administration, and faculty take some stand and make some definite plans for next year and the next five. No further study could possibly be necessary or even productive. During this spring and next fall we have a new chance. The Student Life Committee is presently evaluating the Social Patterns Commission report and making its own recommendations which will be presented to the trustees in the fall. President Spencer is planning to make a statement concerning his feelings on the matter. We hope that the sixth time around we may have a chance. We urge that the Student Life Committee make specific recommendations and include a reasonable timetable for their implementation — reasonable considering time already lost over past discussions and reasonable considering the urgent need for a solution to the problem.

Campaign For Peace

The ROTC sit-in, the peace vigil, the march in Charlotte, and last weekend’s massive nationwide protests of expansion of the war in Southeast Asia were all fine and good. They registered the substantial disagreement which exists with President Nixon’s policies. Such immediate reactions to the widened war were called for. But where do we go from here? Nixon has promised to tone his administration’s repressive rhetoric. The local anti-ROTC movement has turned its attention to the worthy cause of increasing Davidson’s black student population. And the Kent State victims have been buried. But the United States is still very much involved in Southeast Asia. We still have troops in Cambodia. We’re still messing around in Laos. And our chief import from Vietnam is still U. S. servicemen in coffins. Will the young lapse into apathy? Will they rise to revolution? Assuming the American democratic system is really viable we hope not. With that assumption we have two proposals for changing the country’s directions both domestic and foreign. First, we propose that members of the college community open up the debate of present policies. Students and faculty alike will have excellent opportunities this summer to make public their views on American militarism and involvement in Southeast Asia: Speaking engagements in churches and civic clubs could do much to spread concerned views to the electorate that will eventually force a change in policies. Many influential members of the “silent majority” simply have not listened to the young because they have mistaken concern for what is to them unpalatable radicalism. Sober expressions of opinion in the very bastions of this “majority” might have a real effect on the elections next fall. Secondly, we propose that Davidson College take steps to rearrange its academic calendar so that members of the college community can devote at least a week before the November elections to political campaigning for peace candidates. We appeal to the college that individuals be freed temporarily from academic responsibilities so that they might work to change the country. We hope that Davidson will see fit to follow the lead of Princeton and Duke Universities and make the requested schedule changes, and we encourage those disturbed about the war to do something constructive to end it.

The Volunteer Army

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Thornton Attacks Pyeatt, Views Present Dilemma

To the Editor:

The space allowed me in this good paper is too precious to squander blowing up Robert Pyeatt’s intemperate criticism of me into an issue. Neither he nor I are that important — when dead we will soon be forgotten. Ideas do not die so easily. “Many young people (and some, like David Dellinger, not so young) shout ‘Oink’ and throw bags of excrement at those who are supporting a constitutional republic within a framework of law and order. Let them stray away from the championship of a mob, and just one time get mugged and robbed, and they will change their mindless ‘Oink’ to a fervent cry of supplication... ‘Help! Help! Police!’” So Robert has thrown his bag of excrement at me, not knowing me at all. Now let's consider an idea, without an imprecation, and see this: Religion is under attack in this country. A crafty and concerted attempt is being made to tear America away from the basic beliefs upon which it built, in 200 years, a nation greater than any other although some are 10,000 years old. Urgent forces have been upon us with “God is dead,” school prayer has been stopped. Pornography is rampant, we are flooded with “revised” bibles, each one seemingly leading us farther away from belief in love of our Creator, God Almighty. Minds bent upon sophistry tell us man was not divinely made — he just evolved from atoms. But they boggle and turn away from the question, “Well, who made the atom?” Ownership of property is under attack right in Davidson College. We have more civil rights than any nation, but have become a mob shibboleth. Now I beg my readers to study two articles, not long or involved, in the Encyclopedia Britannica. The one on communism, the other on socialism. I am not recommending some “right wing” or “conservative” study of these subjects — just the impartially stated facts. If you do this, you will see that communist nations have neither civil rights nor property rights, and the open worship of God is forbidden. Why? Because when you come under the bloody tyranny of a communist dictator, you must worship the state. That is to be your God. It tells you where you will live, where and what you will study, what kind of work you will do. You cannot criticize your government as you do in our blessed country — death might be your punishment. You cannot leave the country. You are a walled-in slave. Some of you were in grade school when theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Berlin wall was built—the infamous wall that seals in from one to ten times their number. One must protect himself with the means available if civilized students revert to the use of this ancient pre-gun deadly attack weapon. If a student does not want to become guilty by association, shouldn’t he avoid congregating with those who attack to maim and kill with this ancient missile? to East Germany millions or———Ours is a fine form of slaves, minus thousands who have been killed trying to escape. Read up on it. Remember, Cleaver, Foreman, Carmichael, Rubin, Rudd, Brown, Castro, are agents of a destructive force. They would like to perform their appointed task by destroying this society. Would you want ex-criminals drawing up some new laws for you to go by? Rudd and Brown are now fugitives from justice, with their pictures posted in all post offices. Can any serious student follow their example and their lead? Verbal rocks and bags of excrement, as thrown by thoughtless Pyeatts, do not hurt. But rocks, deadly ones, have been used by ancient armies of sling throwers, catapults to batter down stone walls, since before David slew Goliath with a rock thrown from a sling. Peacekeeping officers, no matter what uniform they wear, cannot engage in unending rock battles of attrition with crowds usually.

To the Editor:

As was expected, students broke into protest throughout the nation after President Nixon's decision to send troops into Cambodia last week. Most of the demonstrations and marches were peaceful; some weren't so peaceful. Davidson College was no exception. Within hours, demonstrations and other forms of protest were organized. Fortunately, most of these were well planned, and proper permits were obtained to carry them out. The 58-hour demonstration across from the Post Office was well planned and properly executed. It is too bad that every form of protest in this country can’t be like this one. I agree 100 percent with the right to dissent peacefully within the limits of the law, though I disagree almost entirely with the dissenters’ cause. However, the demonstration Tuesday afternoon (May 5) causing the cancellation of ROTC drill went beyond these bounds. Protesters shouted insults at the cadets and called some by name, imploring them to leave ranks and join the protest. When this failed, they began to march around the track, continuing their shouting and silly antics. Though the demonstrators never actually broke into the ranks, they created such a disturbance that Col. Foster was forced to cancel the drill. Although some would disagree, ROTC is an academic class at Davidson, and drill is a part of this class. Hence the demonstration disrupted a class—a violation of a law and Davidson College policy. President Spencer in his statement to the college community last Thursday, affirmed the rights of individuals on this campus. A good number of these students' rights were violated Tuesday afternoon by those who gripe and complain about their own rights being violated. It is President Spencer's duty to see that this policy is carried out. Every student has the right to protest and demonstrate—only as long as it doesn't infringe upon the rights of others, including ROTC students.

Tom Rogers ‘71
Davidson College

Council Proposes Ways To End Campus Tensions

The American Council on Education’s Special Committee on Campus Tensions believes that campus unrest can be reduced or ended if all members of the academic community are allowed to participate in the administration of the institution. In its report, “Campus Tensions: Analysis and Recommendations,” the eight-month-old committee predicted that this year would reach new heights in campus activism. Sol M. Linowitz, former ambassador to the Organization of American States, headed the committee as chairman. The membership was composed of students, faculty members, administrators, trustees, and laymen. The committee emphasized the need for balance in the powers of the different groups on campus and the responsibility that must accompany the decisions made by those involved. An improvement in communications channels appeared to be imperative, and the committee suggested that guidelines be offered to familiarize those who would have new powers with administrative procedures. The development of new techniques to allow for greater changes to take place in higher education was also stressed. The report concluded: “The survival of our system of long-term contribution to society depends upon rationality and civility, shared concern, and mutual respect among the members of the academic community. Students, faculty, administrators, trustees—all must recognize their necessary interdependence.” To support their findings, the committee submitted 41 recommendations for campus leaders to offer “suggestions for fostering the reconciliation, trust, and conditions favorable to constructive change on campus.” Mr. Linowitz questioned what he considered to be inflammatory actions taken by such political figures as Vice-President Agnew and California Gov. Ronald Reagan. On the other hand, the committee deplored the disregard of some students for peaceful and responsible dissent: “Campus violence threatens some colleges and universities with repressive forces that could cripple their freedom for many years to come.”

A Virgin Sacrifice

By ROBERT PYEATT

“This war will be legitimate when David Eisenhower is sent to Cambodia and Tricia Nixon is offered up as a virgin sacrifice.” The Nixon Administration seems to be vacillating between a “Death to Bums” campaign and another round of Bring Us Together, that old television game show where the winner gets a used car, a date with Tricia Nixon and a feeling of reassurance. And the Peace Movement is on the edge of extinction and overwhelming support at the same time. Its members want very much to believe Nixon, to accept troop withdrawals and draft reform, and go their own ways. Nixon, a scaly, reptilian sort of fellow, is directed by some tenuous thought processes twisting through the art-nouveau curves of his tortured psyche that no one will ever know, except possibly John Mitchell; Mitchell is either his alter ego or his superego. The current crisis has certain predictable facets of the kind one would expect from the politico-military clique which seems to be running the country. But the position, the Peace Movement, or whoever is against the President and the Generals (President-General?) continues to be unpredictable. The long-haired yet clean-cut white liberals and radicals are difficult to figure out. For the most part they have ignored making obvious comparisons between the killing of the Kent State four and the Orangeburg Massacre two years ago, yet it is an important and enlightening comparison. The heights of the civil rights movement of five years ago seem a century away now. Except for a modicum of concern over whether the Panthers get a fair trial, or a trial at all, the black minority gets nothing but some useless sympathy from white liberalism. The trial by co-opting of issues began when Nixon announced that he stood four-square for a clean environment and all we enlightened honkies had to do was rally around him and solve the ecology problem. As the ecology movement gathered support Peace declined—ecology is so much easier, and you don't have to go to jail about it. The ecology people didn’t notice or didn’t mind when Nixon’s Clean Rivers Bill, which he boasted was a great step for mankind, appropriated less federal funds for pollution control than Johnson’s Clean Rivers Bill of 1965 had. And all of Nixon’s big industrialist friends and contributors are getting on the bandwagon too. Then the announcements of troop withdrawals, that insipid November television speech, and the draft lottery seemed to take the drive out of the Peace Movement. It came alive after Cambodia, but the weekend in Washington — everyone expected violence — what happened? Either the police have been more at fault in these demonstrations than we thought, and somebody finally told them to cool it, or maybe nobody was so angry about Cambodia after all. The majority of students at Davidson who are into Peace want something with beautiful sunny afternoons, lots of folk songs, little children playing, sort of an overgrown Presbyterian Youth Fellowship. Or they want Peter Hobbie to get up and be chairman of lots of meetings and tell them how it’s going to be. But folk songs don’t sell very well in Southeast Asia and they don’t fit Kent State. It’s not something you can do on the crest of a big emotional wave and expect it to keep going. The Generals are a lot more consistent.

Rogers Applauds Peaceful Dissent, Objects To ROTC Demonstration

Tom Rogers ‘71
Davidson College