— Ten October 9, 1970

Friday, October 9
4 p.m. Soccer
8:03 p.m. Movie: "W.C. Fields Festival"

Saturday, October 10
2 p.m. Football with Bucknell
7 p.m. Concert: Josh White, Jr.
8:03 p.m. Movie: "W.C. Fields Festival"

Tuesday, October 13
2 p.m. ROTC Leadership Symposium
3 p.m. Soccer with Duke
4 p.m. Cross Country with Wake Forest

Thursday, October 15
9 a.m. Coffeehouse with Black Student Coalition
3 p.m. Lecture: T. Harry Williams, Morrison Room
"Lincoln and Davis as War Leaders"
9 p.m. Presentation of Portrait of D. Grier Martin
9:15 p.m. Reception for Students, Faculty, and Trustees

Friday, October 16
4 p.m. Cross Country with Campbell
8 p.m. Kenny Rogers and the First Edition
10:15 p.m. Movie: "The Sterile Cuckoo"

Saturday, October 17
8:30 a.m. Law School Admission Test
2 p.m. Football with Furman
2 p.m. Sailing with the Citadel
4 p.m. Dave Fagg’s Post Game Talk, Morrison Room
8 p.m. Movie: "The Sterile Cuckoo"

Locations:
Soccer Field
Richardson Stadium
Love Auditorium
Morrison Room
Evans Chambers Dining Room
Charlestown, S.C.

Committees To Administer Extended Studies Program
By JEFF ALLENDER, Staff Writer

Seeking a workable supplement to normal classroom study schedules, the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) last Friday announced committees for the five areas of the Extended Studies Program. The Extended Studies Program allows students to choose special projects, outside reading in preparation for an area exam, or additional courses for credit to fulfill academic requirements.

The freshman-sophomore program is an extension of the four areas of course distribution requirements and will usually limit students to areas other than their major. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan will act as the coordinator of the freshman-sophomore program. The junior-senior program will allow extra work in the student’s major area. "We're dealing with the option of the area exam, individual projects, extra courses, seminar, and one or two other things," Bevan said.

Fall Term Free University Closes Registration Today

This is the last day to register for the fall term of Free University. Registration lasts from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the lobby of Chambers Building. Courses for the fall term include: The Care and Feeding of the Electronic Brain, Environmental Responsibility, Human Sexuality, Marxism and Christianity, Seeing and the Camera, School of Self-Defense, Guitar, Advanced Bridge, and a Seminar on Revolution. Classes meet each Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in Chambers Building. Townspeople, students from Charlotte, and Davidson professors and students are all invited to participate.

The Free University, established two years ago, offers virtually any subject in which students are sufficiently interested and for which a capable teacher (often a student) can be found. "The Free University intends to complement the educational experience of the college," said Assistant Professor of Mathematics Jerry A. Roberts. He plans to begin two informal classes in computer programming beginning next week. All interested members of the faculty, administration, or student body are welcome.

Classics Abroad (Continued from Page 3)

The trip was by no means all ruins and museums. A stay at the Riviera was sneaked into the schedule. But meeting another world of people was the education that really counted. Powell: Most of the Greeks spoke at least a little English.Lish. I got along with them better because they seemed not as sophisticated in the Western sense. There was time for breathtaking sights, a different kind of beauty, and countless activities.

Affeldt: Crete — the mountains and olive trees were beautiful. And there was a chapel in Florence that was all marble.

Gandee: Delphi is one of the most beautiful spots in the world.

Powell: The Phaliron Yacht Club in Athens was an interesting place I went to, and maybe the Acropolis. I even went boar hunting in Turkey.

Educational process and curriculum of the college as much as possible,” claims its statement of purpose. “We have attempted to present courses which are both meaningful and realistic.” Girls from Queens College in Charlotte have often attended Free University sessions in the past.

Roberts Offers Computer Course

One of the classes is for those who have had some experience in FORTRAN programming. It is designed to be an introduction to the use of the college’s new FORTRAN computer. The class will meet for the first time next Monday at 4:00 p.m. in Chambers 212. The other class is for people who have had no programming experience whatever, and will meet Wednesday at 4:00 p.m. in Chambers 212. Both of these informal courses will meet once a week, the schedule to be fixed at the initial meeting.

THE FUN BEGINS AT ATTIE'S

“Just up the road two more options which will be raised before long,” Bevan said. “One of the best points of the system is its flexibility,” he said. “Students would tend to leave their extended studies option until the third term of the year,” Bevan said. “So we have to schedule a certain number of projects to the first and second terms, so that not all students will back up on the third term.”

Five committees, covering the four academic areas plus an interarea committee, were set up to administrate the details of the program. Headed by assistant professor of English Charles Cornwell, the Area I (Language, literature, and the arts) committee includes faculty members A. S. Abbott, Frank Bliss, Dirk French, Herbert Jackson, Thomas Rogerson, Hallam Walker, W. H. Welsh and J. S. Winkler, as well as student member Dick Hinson.

The committee for Area II (religion and philosophy), chaired by religion professor A. J. McKelway, includes George L. Abernathy, Daniel D. Rhodes, J. J. Young and sophomore Ken Jones.

The Area III group (natural science and mathematics) includes chemistry professor J. M. Fredrickson, chairman, R. B. Bernard, E. E. Brown, Nick Burnett, W. F. Frey, J. I. Hopkins, W. T. Lammers, Jerry A. Roberts, and senior Tom Opie.

Leading the Area IV committee (social sciences) will be economics professor Charles E. Ratliff Jr., and assisting him will be J. T. Drake, Jon Fuller, Malcolm Lester, J. H. Ostwalt, J. W. Reid, Jr., W. G. Workman and sophomore Gary Long.

Bevan will head the Area V (Interarea group), which includes Hansford Epes, Jon Fuller, Ralph Gable, Max Polley, senior Gene Early and sophomore Mike Wheeler. Bevan said he has been meeting with the chairmen of the committees, drawing up additional plans for the implementation of the system.

“This program is just getting started out,” he said. “We plan to evaluate its effectiveness at least every year, and modify it according to need.”

Homecoming Special

ALL WINTER SUITS & SPORT COATS REDUCED 15%

Also A Good Selection of Sweaters in Crews And Collar Models

THE RED HANGER - DAVIDSON, N. C.