‘Where's That New Freshman?’ ‘Paris In the Spring’ Ends Senior Year

By EMERSON BELL

During my four years at Davidson, I justified those long hours of dedication and dateless Saturday nights by dreaming about
the spring of my senior year. After discarding the usual notions of orgies, drunken brawls, etc., which every Davidson senior
contrives, my mind became fixed on “Paris in the Springtime.” I'm not sure how I arrived at this conception. The
only problem that I could foresee was how to disguise cleverly my Paris spree as an acceptable plan of study.
I did need two courses to graduate and I don’t think Wine Tasting 201 and Cat House Hopping 195 have
been added to the Davidson catalogue!

I began my cat-and-mouse games with the administration. Strategy move No. 1 was to get one of “THEM” (faculty) on
my side. I found this surprisingly easy. (There are some real swingers hiding behind those distinguished beards and pipes....). Strategy
move No. 2 elevated my Davidson training to its finest hour (this scheme was quickly becoming more challenging than impressing
a Sweet Briar girl). With the aid of the Benedict Arnolds in the faculty, I discovered the Alliance Francaise -
a language school in Paris that requires only 80 francs ($16.00) to become a fully enrolled student. I'd found my
school. Now all I lacked was a good reason for going.

I’d been accepted to graduate school and a language proficiency is a part of the Ph.D. requirements. This sort of
information looks good on written proposals to Curriculum Requirements Committees. After 2½ months of skillful planning, manipulating, and general plotting,
I presented my proposal to the unsuspecting administration. Three committees and several weeks later my springtime splurge was given the
green light (I should say “red” light considering Cat House Hopping 195...).

It was only after receiving permission to spend my spring term in Paris that I began to have misgivings. But
she was my baby and I had used all my tricks to win her - and I wasn't about to
give her up. To set the record straight, Paris and the Alliance Francaise are a Davidson man’s paradise. Let it
be known that the French lover is a myth. Red-blooded American boys are in big demand here. (That is the
only common characteristic between the Alliance Francaise and Davidson.) Girls seem to flock here from all over the world. French
is the only common language and I've had a little trouble translating my routine into French! I have, however, learned
enough French to get my act across (maybe I didn’t fool the D.C. administration after all...).

Being a serious student, I soon threw myself into the finer points of French wine. Of primary interest to the
Davidson mentality is the fact that a bottle of wine can be bought for as little as 40 cents! That
just about covers my research on French wine. Too much learning is a dangerous thing.

Now for my in-depth report on the Cat Houses of Paris: unlike most of Europe, there is no special student
rate. Of special interest is my weekend trip to Amsterdam. In Davidson tradition, the “weekend” started on Tuesday afternoon. On
the Queen’s birthday, all the young people in the town gathered at Dam Square to celebrate, protest, and generally have
a big time. The police didn't like the crowd and overreacted in Chicago fashion. A fire truck gave me a
shower but didn’t dampen my spirits. The whole “riot” turned into a big game of chase between the cops and
the teenagers. A townee informed me that the annual Queen's birthday celebration was the only excitement the police got all
year.

Another weekend excursion took me to Mont Saint Michel, an impressive cathedral built off the western coast of France.France. Dressed
in my best Davidson blue jeans, I set out hitchhiking. My traveling companion, a junior year abroad girl from Converse,
provided the sex appeal to stop the cars, and I was a brilliant Davidson gentleman. St. Michel was one of
the most impressive sights of my trip to date. At high tide, the cathedral becomes an island, connected to the
mainland by a narrow road. The water rushes around the island and in a matter of minutes, you are completely
isolated from everything "out there." A real natural high. The cathedral turned into an impregnable fortress—even using my extensive ROTC
training, I failed to come up with an acceptable method for attack. I don’t want to give the impression that
I’ve just been goofing off on my weekend excursions. A lot of my worthlessness has been centered in the Paris
sidewalk cafes during the week. One cup of coffee or a beer is enough to give you sitting rights for
a whole afternoon. One of the supreme pleasures of life, I’ve discovered, is watching everybody hurry to appointments while you
don’t have a damn thing to do. Finding a companion to "cafe-sit" is as easy as getting a group to
go to Hattie’s. From time to time, I’ve gotten industrious and hit some of the attractions of Paris. I’ve gotten
lost in the Louvre, dodged fanatic French drivers at the Place de la Concorde, and been swindled by the artists
of Montmartre! One of my most memorable mistakes took place soon after I arrived. I had temporary lodging in a
student hotel which locked up for the night at 12:30. On my way back to the hotel that night, I
got lost and when the French lock up for the night, it’s impossible to persuade them otherwise. I spent the
evening drinking coffee in the Boul’ Mich Cafe with several bums who had nowhere else to go and several Sorbonne
students who had the answers to the world's problems. I preferred the bums.

LETTERS

No, a chorus of female voices answers from below my window, “It's Tinker Day!" What is Tinker Day? Page 19
of the Student Handbook bears the following description of Tinker Day: "Tinker Day is one of the oldest and most
delightful traditions at Hollins and one that is thoroughly enjoyed by the entire community, faculty as well as students. One
unscheduled day in October, President Logan declares a surcease to all academic work and the body corporate spends a day
of physical fitness climbing Tinker Mountain, picnicking on chicken and chocolate Tinkercake, singing, playing pranks, enacting skits, laughing and then
hiking back down again." What happens is that at 9:00 a.m. everyone (after having been up all night celebrating the
"surcease to all academic work") assembles on the Main Quad. President Logan, Mr. Ivy League, appears in front of Main
Dorm wearing green, orange, and yellow striped bells and declares it to be officially Tinker Day. After everyone goes berserk
for a while, you begin the hike up Tinker Mountain. At the top, there is the traditional singing of Tinker
Day Class Songs, followed by the traditional Tinker Day meal consisting of chicken and the traditional Tinkercake (chocolate cake with
chocolate icing). Then the real fun starts. Everyone assembles on a grassy field for the traditional Tinker Day Class Skits.
Sex, religion, academia, even obesity felt the sharp barbs of satiric wit. I wonder how Tinker Day would go over
at Davidson. Would professors really leave their Weltanschauungs and verisimilitudes in Chambers for a day? Would the Davidson student body
be willing to actually walk up a mountain? I wonder.

Carter Voices Complaint On Anonymous Petitions

To The Editor:

In the years that I have been at Davidson, I am sure that I have read at least a thousand
petitions and editorials which were mimeographed and stuffed under my door. I'll wager though that I could count on my
right hand the number of those that were signed by the authors. The reason for this I can't say. Yet
it appears that at a campus where debate and controversy flourish, our school roster seems to be composed not of
students with real names but of 1000 AD HOC COMMITTEES. While there are no legal guidelines at Davidson concerning the
practice of signing our distributed literature, there should at least be ethical guidelines from a personal standpoint. It is an
unfortunate practice that we proliferate our ideas so freely, yet rarely dare to be connected with those ideas. Perhaps an
opinion worth expressing is also worth claiming.

Scott Carter ‘71
Davidson College
