Page Six November 13, 1970

RED SEL TEE He MALLE

Sidelines with - Ernie Shipe
Sports Editor

The view from the penthouse suite of the North Carolina National Bank Building in Charlotte is very clear. All the
Southern Conference basketball coaches and sports writers had gathered there for cocktails and lunch. For two and a half hours
Monday morning they had discussed their teams’ chances for the basketball title. The decision as to who would finish first
isn’t so clear.

On the way to lunch, Whitey Kelley of the Observer mentioned to Terry Holland that “everybody in the league wants
a piece of Davidson.” East Carolina, Furman, and The Citadel feel this could be their year and agree that Davidson
is the team to beat for the title. The consensus of the coaches in their two-day meeting at the Manger
Motor Inn in Charlotte was that any team in the league can beat any other on any given day. Richmond’s
Lewis Mills felt that “the team who can win on the road will win the title.”

“I will be surprised if someone dominates the league,” said VMI’s Mike Schuler. “The winner will lose two or three
games. Davidson is deserving of being the favorite until someone can show that they can be beaten.”

I’ll go along with Schuler and pick the Wildcats on the basis of their winning tradition and wealth of talent.
(see related stories on the Wildcats and their opponents) The job of defending the title will be tougher than past
seasons and the loss of Maloy, Kroll, and Cook will have to hurt. East Carolina, Furman, and The Citadel should
finish second through fourth and I wouldn’t be surprised to see one of them sneak off with the title. Richmond
should finish fifth while William and Mary and VMI fight to stay out of the cellar.

* * * *

Assorted comments and opinions from the two-day meeting:

Tom Quinn of East Carolina has a very positive attitude toward his program. With only three returning players he’s looking
forward to an outstanding year. Two of those, Jim Gregory and Jim Fairley, he rated among the conference’s top five
performers.

Quinn feels that one of the top sophomores in the Conference will be ECU’s Dave “The Eel” McNeil. “I’m not
comparing him to Charlie Scott but he sure looks like him at times.” Quinn has a hang-up on nicknames. Besides
“The Eel” he has the “Glassman,” “Elevator Man,” “Wolfman,” “Bronson,” and “Country Spider” to man his “yo-yo offense” and “74
double-aught defense.”

Furman’s Joe Williams showed his preference for flashy clothes at the meeting. His gold double-breasted suit was reminiscent of some
of the outfits he wore to brighten up NBC’s color coverage of his Jacksonville squad in the NCAA tournament last
year. Williams explained his reason for his team’s tendency to run up the scoreboard. “This type of basketball is more
exciting and the boys are much happier. High scoring teams also attract better high school players to your school.”

Optimist of the year award at the two-day meeting goes to VMI’s Mike Schuler. Schuler predicted that his Keydets will
be “on top of the Southern Conference” in two more seasons. VMI was 6-19 last year.

William and Mary has built a 5.3 million dollar basketball facility and has an ambitious schedule including Jacksonville, UCLA, North
Carolina, and Wake Forest. Unfortunately, the Indians don’t have the personnel to match either. Eleven junior college transfers have been
added to Southern Conference teams. Davidson, with its tough entrance requirements, is without one.

* * * *

Davidson’s Sports Information Director Emil Parker has questioned the wisdom of the selection of the conference player of the week
award.

“Presently all the SID’s and coaches submit their nominee to Dallas Shirley (an SC official) and he makes the decision,”
Parker said. “I’m questioning his wisdom.”

Parker suggests a panel of coaches and SID’s making the weekly selection which from here seems to be a sound
and constructive suggestion. Last week Phil Mosser of William and Mary was chosen for the award. Mosser scored three TD’s
in William and Mary’s win. Davidson’s Mike Mikolayunas was overlooked. Mike caught 16 passes, a national high, in the Wildcats’
loss to Lafayette.

* * * *

Terry Holland took a slightly pessimistic view of Davidson's chances to repeat as Southern Conference basketball champions at the Tip-off
in Charlotte. “When you lose three players who scored 4113 points you have to be a little pessimistic. Last year’s
team scored 2225.” (Mike Maloy, Doug Cook, and Jerry Kroll all scored over 1000 points during their careers.)

Bryan Adrian will lead the ‘Cat offense.

Wildcats Face Tough Schedule

Davidson opens its 1970-71 basketball campaign later than usual this year and faces one of the toughest challengers, East Carolina,
in the opener on Dec. 9. Exams have forced the Wildcats to open later and Coach Holland feels that the
advantages in the late start...will equal the disadvantages. “We'll have more time to scout our first opponent but they will
also have two games to prepare themselves for us,” Holland said. East Carolina will offer two of the league's better
players in Jim Fairley and Jim Gregory. 6-10 center Al Faber should make the Pirates tougher. Dave McNeill, Julius Prince,
and Mike Henrich will give them adequate strength in the backcourt. Outside of East Carolina, the Wildcats' toughest conference competition
will come from The Citadel and Furman.

Two junior college transfers along with forward Lisco Thomas make first-year Head Coach Joe Williams' job at Furman much easier.
“The Citadel is also blessed with several JC transfers in John Sutor, Larry Brown, and Jim Below. Both Sutor and
Brown averaged over 20 points per game last year. Richmond returns three starters to a squad that finished second to
the Wildcats in the Southern Conference tournament. Outside of VMI’s Jan Es- senburg, there are few name players on either
the William and Mary or Keydet roster. The Keydets will again be defense-minded and William and Mary hopes five transfers
will brighten their outlook.

Davidson has to face SC foes only nine times this year and faces many of the nation’s better teams to
complete their 25-game schedule. South Carolina, who has a good chance at the NCAA title, will be the toughest foe.
The Cats will meet the Gamecocks in Charlotte on Feb. 10. Only Bobby Cremins has departed Columbia but he will
be adequately replaced by sensational Kevin Joyce. Casey Manning and seven-foot Danny Traylor will join John Roche, Tom Owens, Tom
Riker, John Ribock, Rick Aydlett, and Bobby Carver. Wake Forest, Duke, and N.C. State of the ACC will also provide
the Cats with tough assignments. The Cats will have to face some of the Eastern powers again this year. St.
John’s, Princeton, St. Joseph, and Pittsburgh are on the schedule. Joining Davidson in the Charlotte Invitational on Dec. 29-30 are
LaSalle, Boston College, and Georgia. LaSalle features one of the nation’s top performers in Ken Durrett. Cincinnati and Mercer are
two new additions to this year’s schedule. Mercer will be the first team Davidson will face in Johnston Gym.

During their four years on the Davidson team, they went 89-13; Holland countered by saying that most of the players
on Davidson’s team had been practicing against them for several years and have to be pretty good after going through
all that. “I do think we can win 20 games,” said Holland. “I think we can win the conference championship
and go a long way in the NCAA.” Holland was quick to mention Bryan Adrian and labeled him an All-American
prospect. “He walks on the floor and most people laugh while I cry. He is a scorer. He’s not a
great shooter but he makes several little moves and the next thing you know he has beaten you.”

Holland said that Davidson needs a big man and mentioned the role Eric Minkin must play. “He is very strong
and aggressive. He had a frustrating season and a good deal of the responsibility will fall on his shoulders.” John
Pecorak was the third Wildcat Holland mentioned who would be in the starting lineup. “John is a competitor the way
Wayne Huckel was. I'd sure hate to be playing ahead of him.”

The question as to who will start at the point is still uncertain. Holland said the race is between Ron
Stelzer and Billy Pierce. “Pierce is giving Stelzer a run for his money,” he said, “and has the edge on
defense. Stelzer has a lot more game experience and is a slightly better shooter.” Holland reminded the group that Steve
Kirley was the second leading freshman scorer in the school’s history. “This year Steve has to be a scorer. He's
a fine outside shooter and the fastest man on the team. Last year he did an excellent defensive job on
South Carolina’s John Roche.”

The need for another scorer in the lineup brought Holland to sophomore Gordon Graham. “Gordon is a great shooter but
isn’t that quick. It will be tough to have him and Adrian in the lineup at the same time. Both
are just modest defensive players.” Holland also mentioned the possibility of Joe Sutter, Lester Strong, or Duncan Postma working their
way into the starting five. “Joe is a good shooter from 15-18 feet and could easily be a starter. He
is an outstanding defensive player but lacks stamina.” Holland said that Strong was a fine jumper and has improved his
shooting. He also noted that it was unfortunate he wasn’t able to see a lot of action last season. Postma,
according to Holland, could work into the lineup at the wing or point. He cited his shooting inconsistency as his
greatest drawback.
