Fraternities Question Spencer
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. met with a group of fraternity representatives and freshmen senators at his home Monday
afternoon to hear complaints and to answer questions about the recent trustee decision to abolish selective fraternities on campus. The
meeting was set in response to a Saturday afternoon pre-game demonstration on the football field by fraternity men and their
dates.

Jim Cantrell, spokesman for the group, began the discussion with objections to the vagueness of the second paragraph of the
trustee report which cites “changing economic conditions” and “changing student attitudes” as a basis for the recent decision. Spencer responded
that the reference to economic conditions meant the deficits in five of the fraternities, which did not exist five years
ago. He said this did not refer to the overall debt of Patterson Court.

He explained “changing student attitudes” as a growing disillusionment with ritual and dying loyalty to the national fraternity, but several
students answered that the phrase implied a change from pro- to anti-fraternity feeling on campus. Spencer followed these remarks by
stating: “The principle of exclusion was the nub of the change.” He mentioned that comments made as early as 1918
by Walter L. Lingle and reports from the Blue Sky Committee, Social Patterns Advisory Commission, and the AED opposed exclusion
as the number one problem.

Cantrell and others proposed a compromise in the form of a 6-4 or 4-8 split of the court into fraternities
and eating clubs, but Spencer posed a question raised at a recent IFC meeting: “How do you decide who goes
and who stays? If you have a half-and-half system the exclusive half will look more desirable to students. You still
have the ‘ins’ and ‘outs’ of the problem.”

Discussion then centered around the general attitude at the meeting of the trustees, and David Weaver commented: “Our main objection
is that the student body as a whole was not recognized.” John Bollinger added: “You misled us into thinking that
this was a matter of principle, but the Trustees’ action was very specific.” He mentioned the explicit instructions on off-campus
dining. Spencer replied that these particular provisions were not by him but by another trustee.

Spencer then asked what the group thought the differences between the old and new systems would be, and Cantrell answered
that “some houses are inevitably going to have a reputation as being better than others, and students will want to
go to them.” Spencer said: “You would still be able to have a close group of friends as you do
now, but under the new system no one would be hurt.” He added that the important thing about the new
system is that the student chooses, not the group. He offered the possibility of swapping among fraternities.

Cantrell asked what sort of showing of student opinion might affect Spencer and the (See PLAN, Page 2)

MEETING AT MIDFIELD
Fraternity representative Jim Cantrell talks to President Spencer.
Vol. LX, No. Six
(Staff photo by Davidsonian)

Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036, October 23, 1970

Fraternity Changes Begun

Details of the mechanics for the fraternity changes instituted by the trustees last week should be ready by mid-December according
to Vice-President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. Bevan was left in charge of deciding details for change by College
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. who is touring German educational institutions. Bevan announced Tuesday that he had formed a committee
to complete proposals for implementing the changes.

Named to the committee to represent the administration were C. Shaw Smith, Richard C. Burts, Robert A. Currie, and Bevan.
Representing the faculty are four members of the Faculty Executive Committee. Student Senate President Ran Coble will represent that body
along with Cecil Burney, Kim Griffith, and Bob Meadows.In addition to these 12, the Bevan Forms Committee is also to
include four fraternity presidents. Bevan met yesterday with the fraternity presidents and left the task of selecting their representatives up
to the fraternity presidents themselves. "We'll have to move on from here," said Bevan. "There are a lot of rather
difficult problems but we plan to direct our attention at these. I recognize a few fraternities that want to make
the transition but are afraid of financial collapse before the transition is effected. I hope we can deal with this
problem. This is a tremendous opportunity for Davidson to lead in a new type of social affiliation. We want to
approach it with that kind of attitude. It is now up to the fraternities to decide whether they will accept
it or not."

Celebration Hits Campus

AN ANALYSIS By RUSS MERRITT Associate Editor

White-faced clowns wandered in and out of the darkness among the crowd of 100 or more, whispering, exhorting, clapping, drumming
up enthusiasm and excitement. Loud, pulsating and permeating jazz-rock from the musical trio in the center of the room poured
over and under and through the throng.

Date Housing Adequate

According to Housing Director Scotty Nicholls, there was no shortage of places for dates to stay during Homecoming last week.
"In fact, there were empty beds in several places," Mrs. Nicholls noted. "I really can’t be grateful enough to the
faculty members who went out of their way to make this work. They were very cooperative." Mrs. Nicholls said that
she did not anticipate as big a problem for Midwinters and Spring Frolics since the number of dates for those
weekends does not match that of Homecoming. "For every person on the regular list there is probably one more in
town who takes in dates," Mrs. Nicholls said. "They prefer to give the places to students they know rather than
be bothered by calls. I will say that there were some very disgruntled people in town, people who had dates
fail to show up after they had made preparations. How the students perform between now and Midwinters, how they handle
the people in town, will tell the tale." Mrs. Nicholls indicated that there were very few people except new faculty
members who housed student dates for the first time.

And above it all, the voice of a most mod God squad prodded and intimidated the participants on and on
and on. It was a religious orgy, an ecclesiastical cataclysm of emotions, an experience rare at Davidson. It was called
a "celebration," toasting life and living in general, and it featured Don Wardlaw and the Howard Hanger Trio, leaders in
the "revolution in worship" in religion today. Wardlaw, professor of homiletics (preaching and communication) at Columbia Theological Seminary, is the
church’s answer to P.T. Barnum and Ed Sullivan, an expert at attracting attention and involvement from his audience and putting
on a good show in the process.

In preparation for his "celebration," Wardlaw spoke Tuesday morning on the revolution in worship. He emphasized the "rebirth of wonder"
in our culture and in religion. Wardlaw said that an experience is worshipful "only as long as it is meaningful
to the participants." The clown figure played an important role in Wardlaw’s talk. "The clown is the best prototype of
this celebration worship, a mixture of delight and despair that is life." Wardlaw attempted to put all this together in
the celebration service that night, using a movie, many slides, contemporary musical sounds, and discotheque-

(See CELEBRATION, P. 2)

Inside

The wife of a Davidson graduate, now a prisoner of war, tells of her patient vigil, on Page 3. Wofford
is no soft touch on the Davidson football schedule as Hal Canter relates on Page 7.

EDITORIALS
Dick Anderson ... 4
Paul Rowland ... 4
NEWS ... 6
