She Davidsonian — February 20, 1970 Page Three.

Housing In Davidson

FACULTY HOUSING. Within the college’s responsibility.

The Davidsonian Report - 3 SLOAN STREET

So close to Lakeside, yet so far.

Lakeside Park Project.

STUDENT HOUSING OFF CAMPUS

Inexpensive if you find it, but cheap.

Rising Costs Make Housing

Town Housing Need Loans Bad For College

Kases Lown Housing Needs

By JOHN FINE

By JOE SMITH

Associate Editor

Although many members of the college community are actively involved in the town’s efforts to provide more low-cost housing, it is unlikely that the college as an institution will assume a leading role in this endeavor. College business manager Robert A. Currie said that although Davidson had taken an active role in this field in the past, it was questionable as to whether the college could afford to tie up as much of the endowment in low-interest housing loans in the future.

The college for the benefits of employees. Both are on the south side of Concord Road. The college maintains the right to repurchase any of these houses at the market price when it is sold. Most of these units are mortgaged through the college.

A group of community members interested in the prospect of low-cost rental housing met Sunday night to exchange ideas and coordinate their efforts. Danny Clodfelter, a member of the Davidson College Presbyterian church service subcommittee investigating low-cost rental housing, said that he anticipated little help from the college.

According to Clodfelter, the capital supplied by the sponsor is fully refunded within 18 months. In that time, however, interest on the principal is forgone. Facing the prospects of extensive campus expansion and rising operating costs, the college must allocate its limited resources among many worthwhile alternatives, of which town housing is one with a lower priority than others at this time.

LAKESIDE PARK

A successful first step. Lakeside Park, a development of new houses located off Griffith Street, looks no different from the many developments which are now a part of the American landscape. There is more here than meets the eye, however, for Lakeside Park represents the united efforts of all segments of the Davidson community, coupled with assistance from outside governmental agencies. The result is meeting the need for low-cost housing in Davidson.

According to H. B. Naramore, president of Bridgeport Fabrics and past-president of the Davidson Community Relations Committee, the project was initiated to deal with the major problem which his committee ran across in its attempt to improve human relations in Davidson. “The one subject which always came up at our community meetings,” said Naramore, “was housing. This need was well verified by a look around the community, so we decided that the housing issue should be evident by not saying anything at the meeting Sunday,” Clodfelter said.

In order to take title to real estate, it was necessary that an organization more attuned to business be developed,” Naramore continued. “This being the case, a non-profit corporation, the Davidson Community Development, Inc. was created, including in its membership all of the Community Relations Committee. When this was done, we were ready to do business.”

The college figured prominently in the development of the Lakeside subdivision. After the 20-acre tract had been purchased from the Duke Power Company, the college bought 20 of the lots for developing and resale to employees. Money was borrowed for the development, and thirty acres of land was purchased.

Phase Two of the project will involve twenty lots,” said H. B. Naramore. “Five of which will be developed and sold by a private developer.”

The mortgage is floated by a private financial institution at the market rate of interest. The federal agency subsidizes the interest.

Gains And Ecstasies. Cited By Students In Off-Campus Living

By RUSS MERRITT

Associate Editor

“It’s different, and it’s admittedly difficult, but from my standpoint it’s well worth it,” said one of a growing number of Davidson students who have decided to forsake life in the dormitories for living quarters elsewhere in pursuit of privacy, a quiet place to study, and “independence,” as one off-campus student put it.

The speaker was one of those living off-campus in apartments, houses, or what have you. These students almost unanimously contend that the advantages of living out of the dorms outweigh the disadvantages.

“We don’t have to put up with idiotic dorm requirements, dorm checks, or dorm curfews,” claimed one senior who is living with a small group of friends in a rented house. “Besides being independent from school restrictions, we also are free from the incredible amount of dormitory noise and horseplay that distracts from studying.”

The off-campus student pays on average a dollar for every day, or about 300 dollars. The dorm rent includes heating, lighting, janitorial services, etc., while those students living in separate houses off-campus must pay these bills as well as the housing rent.

The rising opportunity costs engendered by rising interest rates in the market make this investment alternative unattractive. Currie said the college could contribute to low-cost housing by acting as a sponsor of the program when it is presented to the Farmers Home Administration for funding. The sponsor must provide approximately two percent of the working capital, but this sum is later repaid when the mortgage is secured.

Since 1955, the college has offered its employees mortgage loans at rates below the market set interest rates. The rising opportunity costs engendered by rising interest rates in the market make this investment alternative unattractive. Currie said the college could contribute to low-cost housing by acting as a sponsor of the program when it is presented to the Farmers Home Administration for funding. The sponsor must provide approximately two percent of the working capital, but this sum is later repaid when the mortgage is secured.

The college maintains the right to repurchase any of these houses at the market price when it is sold. Most of these units are mortgaged through the college.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

The AATI failed to landowner and recently from Duke Power. After employees, the rate so that the loan is whole incentive points (945 similar). There is no reason why we shouldn't rent to Davidson. The funds supplied by the effectively one per cent for beds, and so it is necessary that some student housing is more expensive than that provided by the college. Roughly, the student cost of the housing unit, especially when placed on sale at cost, enabled the Davidson Development Corporation to proceed with the development of some of the remaining lots. Since the debt is amortized by the rent collected, the lower rate of interest made it possible to keep the rates from making the cost prohibitive to these students.

Two other development projects are already in the area. One is the construction of a new home community in need of new housing. The most obvious problem for married students in Davidson is the lack of adequate housing. Married couples live in Cornelius, Mooresville, and other areas, commonly known as "Cardboard Village." Sophomore Bill Lineweaver, who lived in the area, stated that housing for married students is one of the "bleeding wounds" for the college. Although the appliances weren't the best, he was just happy to obtain the apartment. Lineweaver concluded that apartments would probably be the best arrangement.

Mr. Peter Nicholls, director of student housing, stated that if apartments were to be built, the college would have to subsidize them. Even though there is a listing of where students live off-campus, the married students interviewed agreed that a central agency for dealing with rentals, the availability of housing, and prompt maintenance is provided by the college. And finally, they may be furnished by the college and decorated by the couples themselves. Although he said anything would be an improvement, it wouldn't be practical for a private builder to construct them since rents would probably be as high as those in Charlotte and thus out of range for most married students, she said.

Naramore pointed out that most of the members of the community need new housing. The last obstacle was the cost of lots, which was still too expensive for construction. The college has a policy of interest rate participation possible for that, even with lots at cost. Naramore continued, "They do a lot of this kind of work and were of great assistance to us." The FHA was able to arrange thirty-five-year loans at 5.147% interest, and since the cost of dwelling was kept to a minimum, no down payment was necessary. Davidson College was also very helpful in financing the project.

Non-college housing for married students ranges from ridiculous to excellent. However, the rents are usually higher without a corresponding increase in quality. The greatest inconvenience of non-college housing is its distance from the campus. Married couples live in Cornelius, Mooresville, and other areas, commonly known as "Cardboard Village." Sophomore Bill Lineweaver, who lived in the area, stated that housing for married students is one of the "bleeding wounds" for the college. Although the appliances weren't the best, he was just happy to obtain the apartment. Lineweaver concluded that apartments would probably be the best arrangement.

The Lakeside Park project is a first step in solving the housing problem in Davidson, said Naramore, but it is only a first step. Anyone who drives around will see more needs to be done. However, Lineweaver cited some advantages to the college's housing units, despite their inadequacies. One of these is the location, only a short walk away from the Fine Arts center. Secondly, they are cheap—$45 a month. Third, prompt maintenance is provided by the college. And finally, they may be furnished by the college and decorated by the couples themselves. Although he said anything would be an improvement, it wouldn't be practical for a private builder to construct them since rents would probably be as high as those in Charlotte and thus out of range for most married students, she said.

Photos By Bill Lyle
"Cardboard Village" - Inadequate but convenient and reasonable.