The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.50.

PAGE TWO MARCH 13, 1970

Here At Last

Bittersweet. Such is the taste left in the mouth after thoughtfully chewing the brand-new Honors College proposal. Sweet, because the proposal represents at least a well-intended attempt to “provide different opportunities for students of varying backgrounds, motivations, interests, and abilities.” Bitter, for what appears on the pages following this bright introduction looks suspiciously like a traditional superstructure, manufactured to fit nicely (or awkwardly) onto Davidson’s already-existing traditional educational substructure.

The sweetness of the proposal can be found in several of the specific provisions concerning the operation of the College as well as the apparent willingness to do some serious innovating as seen in the spirit of the proposals. First, there is the admission that the program will not place specific requirements on those seeking admission to it. To have described any limitations on the applicants would have wrecked the College at its outset and to dismiss the idea that grade-point averages could exclude a person from admission is a significant positive step for the college. It is a step that should influence the attitudes of people in the regular college as well.

We also find encouraging the apparent diminution of the college's predilection for elaborate application forms. The simple formal application procedure places the main weight of acceptance on personal evaluation where it really belongs. Perhaps here, too, is a lesson for the college at large.

And now let us turn to the bitterness of the proposal. We hesitate to criticize the proposal unfairly, for its general nature leaves a good deal of room for truly excellent maneuver. Indeed, we feel that the avowed flexibility of the College clears the way for many unique educational experiences. However, there are at least two points made in the proposal which stir uneasy thoughts.

It is stated that the faculty of the Honors College “will endeavor to assure a solid liberal education for each student as well as opportunities for specialized studies in depth.” This sounds amazingly similar to a traditional “take the regular courses and participate in a couple tutorials” approach. We trust that this is not what it will in practice mean.

Most suffocatingly, we find that the students in the College will receive grades, ‘Honors,’ ‘Pass,’ or ‘Fail.’ Now, there appear to be two customary arguments advanced for the giving of grades. The first is that they provide motivation of some sort for the student. The second is that they stand as evidence of the student’s general level of achievement or proficiency. It seems to us that the Honors College student would inherently be sufficiently motivated so as to abolish the first argument for grades. As for the second, perhaps a better, freer, approach to the “for the record” problem would be to have the student’s College professor write a short evaluation of his work and attitude.

We hope that those who participate in the first formative year of this new educational program will take every opportunity to make it a truly open-ended institution. The Honors College should be a mind-expanding, not a mind-structuring experience.

A Road Not Taken

In the best traditions of chapels and area exams, it now seems that the Machi House could fade from the Davidson scene. Although the situation is not yet definite, it appears almost certain that overwhelming financial problems could force the present local group back under national auspices. However, while your editors could sit back and relish the passing of either of the first two institutions, the demise of the Machi House must be attended with more than a little regret.

When some members of the Sigma Chi fraternity decided to try to stick out the split in the house that had arisen over personality problems by forming a local fraternity, they embarked on one of the most promising experiments to be undertaken by the fraternity system in recent years. The formation of the local Machi House was a possible first step toward providing Davidson students with a real alternative to the present “non-choice” system provided by the national fraternities and the College Union.

Even more disappointing in the failure is that even the plan to operate a nonselective eating club probably cannot pull the Machi’s out of their financial problems. Such a club might have done very much to facilitate change in the Davidson system. But we may never really know. The inevitable changes that must come in the campus social system have been shoved back into the hazy future always conjured up by the phrase “change from within the system.” And we are seeing the dismal failure of such an attempt at change.

Why might the local effort fall? Simply because the treasurer could not get enough money to pay the bills for the house. And that failure was not his fault because he had already shown his ability by pulling the house out of a several thousand dollar debt. No, the real failure is on the part of the college. According to the majority report of the former Commission on Social Patterns the future of the college should tend to a significant reduction of the roles of fraternities on this campus. The original split among the Sigma Chi’s led to a step in that direction. Yet this step was not cultivated. Davidson was handed out of the “Blue Sky,” as it were, an opportunity to move in the directions it has avowed it will move in the future. This opportunity is being ignored and the college is worse off for it.

The Old Exams Trick

It comes as no surprise to us that the exam period is attended by more violent complaining by students than any other time during the school year. The major cause for those complaints arises from the faculty rules on the scheduling of exams. According to the Faculty Academic Regulations, exams must be given according to the published schedule except in extremely serious circumstances.

The first problem we see arises from the faculty rules on the scheduling of exams. According to the Faculty Academic Regulations, exams must be given according to the published schedule except in extremely serious circumstances. The trouble with every existing schedule is that none can satisfy all students. No set, established schedule could. Admittedly the faculty is not playing up to the student desires in holding exams in the first place, but it seems that the schedules are a needless and constant source of dismay for the students. They are invariably too concentrated or too spread out.

The only way to eliminate these problems would be to design a separate schedule for each student. Naturally we could not expect the administration to provide such a service for all the students so why not leave the scheduling up to the students themselves? A system of self-scheduled exams would allow each person to prepare for and take his exams under the program that best suits him. For those reasons we urge students to work for a self-scheduling system and to support Ran Coble’s efforts when they are presented to the faculty in the Spring Term. With a little luck, next week could be the last time we ever have to complain about an exam schedule.

LETTERS

Folger Challenges Spencer On Open Dorms Proposal

To the Editor:

In a recent Davidsonian article, President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. was quoted as saying that “the social, moral and ethical climate are all part of the educational climate.” I could not agree more. However, he went on to argue against the 24-hour open dorms proposal. On the other hand, I disagree with this stand on the basis of that same statement. It is indeed a fact that the social, ethical, and educational climate are all interrelated. For that very reason we may ask if the decisions made on one level do not reflect attitudes which are prevalent in the whole system. To be specific, does not the policy of dictating to students in the ethical realm merely bear out the fact that students are also dictated to on matters of education? Just as faculty, administration, trustees, or whatever would tell us how to act in the dorms, so we are told what to think (not how to learn) in the classroom. The same system that operates to “close” the dorms also operates to close men's minds.

I hesitated to send this letter because it says basically the same thing that I said two weeks ago in my last letter. However, Dr. Spencer went on to argue that morals in the dorm are the responsibility of the “continuing college community” — a nice way of saying “the faculty and administration.” This is too much! The reasoning is that this continuing group should have their say so because they are more permanent and not subject to the whims of changing student moods. This is precisely the point: it is easy enough to get completely shut off from the rest of the world while at Davidson, and the only influx of new ideas comes from students. Their opinions should be at least considered if we are to continue to fall behind the times at only a moderate instead of an exorbitant rate, but Spencer would rather protect the vested interests of the faculty.

Is “the non-academic climate... more a responsibility of the continuing college community” simply because those “continuers” have abdicated their responsibility in the academic area? Shouldn't students have the major say so about their own living conditions? Yes, Dr. Spencer, you are right—a climate is being set. Let us hope, however, that this climate will be one of “Blue Skies” and clear weather in an atmosphere where men are encouraged to think for themselves and act responsibly rather than the dismal overcast of “in loco parentis.”

Robert Folger ‘71Davidson College With College Campuses

The national conference of the American Association for Higher Education met in Chicago last week, but its findings strike a pessimistic note for colleges in the coming decade. Educators see no reason to expect a lull in student unrest after the precedent which has been set by activists in the past. Colleges will no longer remain isolated and hallowed institutions but will branch out into the world, tackling urgent problems which plague society today. Buell G. Gallagher, former president of the City College of New York, predicts this trend and the necessity of such a step. Colleges and universities can no longer wait on the glacial movement of the generations, retreat into the ivory tower, rely on repression and indirection to get them through times of trouble. Administrators, faculty members, and students together will come up with the answers to these problems, or they will go down together with the ship, Buell said.

The relatively quiet atmosphere which has characterized most colleges so far this year has given little encouragement to administrators. Durward Long, vice-chancellor of the University of Wisconsin center system, views the present calm doubtfully. Despite several recent predictions that the rebellion is over, I believe that the peak of activism has not yet been reached. It seems to be expanding downward into the very young and upward into the young members of the professions.

Student demands involve often such national policies as pollution, overpopulation, violence, racism, and drugs, but the campuses themselves are beset by vast internal problems. The questions involved in open admissions, financial pressures, governance, and a limited job market threaten to bring changes in the system which will alter the colleges and universities drastically from their present form.

Reactions of the conference over the constructive effects of student activism were varied. Several speakers praised the idealism of youths who have been instrumental in taking the initiative in war protest, civil rights, and domestic pollution. Rep. William A. Steiger (R-Wis.), who toured colleges across the nation last year, expressed his regret that students have lost faith in their institutions and the fear of many over the radical element among young students. Says Steiger, “We cannot assume that the relative calm which has prevailed this academic year is a harbinger of a return to the years of silent acquiescence. It is a painful fact for many people but, for the foreseeable future, student dissent is here to stay.”

The failure of colleges to establish any broader forms of increased student participation in campus government has been a major problem around which student dissent has centered. Warren I. Susman, professor of history at Rutgers University, believes that improvement in campus governance “in no sense provides for the reshaping of existing institutions; it merely changes the nature of the membership of such bodies. It represents an extension of paternalism on the part of those in power. The addition of students to various committees and even to participate in decision-making at the highest level lets out students—indeed only some of our students—play house.”

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that week. All letters must be typed and double-spaced. We reserve the right to edit letters over 250 words in length. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.

By PAUL E. ROWLAND

Read It Again, Sam

Dean Richard C. Burts propounded the past-midnight doctrine of evil last year to justify the College’s curfews at the fraternity houses. His suggestion that most evil occurs after the bewitching hour was greeted with hisses, raucous laughter, and subsequent ridicule. Perhaps the impolite student reaction was not caused by the absurdity of the theory but by fond memories that the most successful grubbing did indeed occur in the wee hours of the morning. But now Dr. Spencer has made a series of statements (see the front page of last week’s DAVIDSONIAN) that deserve polite but decimating ridicule. In summary, Spencer said that the non-academic climate at Davidson is the responsibility of the “continuing college community,” that the “continuing community” refers to those connected with the college longer than students, and finally that he disapproves of the “idea” of girls staying overnight in men’s dormitories. On these premises, Spencer has taken a stand opposing 24-hour open dorms.

With so many opportunities, one hardly knows where to begin faulting this argument. Why not begin by looking at the Code of Responsibility Preamble:

“The present Code of Responsibility is based upon the belief that Davidson’s educational purpose can best be advanced in a context which emphasizes the responsible use of freedom, as opposed to license. The aim of this code is to encourage individuals to develop responsible judgment capable of directing conduct with a minimum of specific prohibition. An elaborate system of rules strictly enforced might promote a surface conformity to the standards of behavior desired, but would not effectively serve to develop the maturity of character which is the aim of the college. Rather, responsible maturity is more likely to develop when a member of the college community is both free and obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to accept full responsibility for his own actions and decisions.”

Nowhere in the Code can I find Spencer’s distinction between students and other members of the community in bearing responsibility for the non-academic climate. And as I read the Code, Spencer is subject to its provisions as much as I am, so that neither of us may legislate amendments by decree. The practical problems involved in putting such a distinction into effect would be insurmountable. You would have to stay around four years before you had a significant part in the decision-making process according to Spencer’s reasoning. That would eliminate professors on two-year appointments and even Spencer himself.

As for Spencer’s disapproval of the idea of girls staying overnight in men’s dormitories, I’d have several comments. Apparently, he forgot that the College supervises just that en masse three times each year, but I think we can assume poor wording on Spencer’s part and that he probably meant girls staying overnight with the boys. Apparently, Spencer is irked that many students seem to equate wrestling with principles of conduct with wrestling with one’s date. That irritation is understandable even if I don’t share his convictions (and I don’t). Spencer’s stand violates the spirit of the Code by preempting individual responsibility in favor of “surface conformity to desired standards of behavior.” (While investigating abuses of the Code, the Student Life Committee should also look into abuses by members of the “continuing college community” as well as by students.)

A 24-hour open dorm plan would provide the freedom and obligation to wrestle with moral issues of conduct and consequences which the Code says is more likely to result in responsible maturity.

On a more practical level, why should a student caught with a girl in his room at 11 a.m. be prosecuted if he is not punishable for having a girl in his room an hour later when open dorms officially begin? “Because the rules say so” is not an acceptable answer because, I contend, such a rule is unfairly arbitrary. Why should the College feel called upon to legislate student morals but not faculty and administration morals?

I have considerable respect for Dr. Spencer both as President of the College and as a person, but I also feel that his stand on this issue is indefensible. Perhaps Spencer’s remarks were to appease the College’s more conservative beneficiaries. But on the other hand, I have four fingers and a thumb.

True Grits, By Paul Rowland

The following proposal was submitted to me by the chairman of the Davidson ad hoc Committee on Southern White Culture, representing one of the College’s mystic twelve fraternities. I am honoring his request for anonymity, realizing that I risk the wrath of many who may feel implicated.

An Open Letter to President Spencer:

Dear Sir:

..... Chapter of ..... in a rare burst of public spirit and ethnic pride, is prepared to make a profound personal sacrifice for the betterment of the entire Davidson College Community. We propose to release the fraternity house which we presently hold so that it can become the Southern White Cultural Center.

We feel a Southern White Cultural Center is a necessity at Davidson. Southern whites are a minority that is widely discriminated against in northern regions. At Davidson, their problems have largely been ignored until only a step of this magnitude can erase the century of discrimination. The social life and happiness of this beleaguered minority need a cultural center to improve their identity and social life as well as to make the problems of being a southern belle at Davidson a little more bearable.

The ad hoc committee on Southern White Studies therefore proposes that:

1. The College take over the house and debt and cede this house to the SWCC (Southern White Cultural Center).
2. The College give the SWCC $3,000 to renovate the fraternity house.
3. The SWCC be allowed to hold private meetings every Thursday and restrict membership to those acceptable to this organization.

In return, the SWCC will establish a Southern White Cultural Exhibit which will be open to the public three times a year. (see appendix 1)

We eagerly await your reply.

Sincerely yours,
Davidson ad hoc Committee on Southern White Culture.

Appendix 1

Exhibits for the SWCC Museum:
- 1 pair of white socks
- A Ku Klux Klan robe
- An ethnic diet exhibit (persimmons, grits, moon pies, RC Cola)
- Pickup truck (with drag slicks and gun rack)
- Axe handle (signed by Lester Maddox)
- Autographed picture of Judge Carswell
- Tar and feather kit
- Lynching attachment kit, with carpet bag (to be donated by Burlington Industries)