‘Joe’ Analyzes Hard

A REVIEW By JOHN McLEAN Associate Editor

Hey Joe, Where you goin’ with that gun in your hand? Got to go to town to kill me another man
- Jimi Hendrix

If you never see another movie or read another book before the coming of the Revolution, see “Joe.” It starts Oct. 15 at Charlotte's Village Theater. This, not “Patton” or “Strawberry Statement,” is the movie Hollywood finally had the guts to make. “Joe” is a refreshing break from movies about sensitive young men trying to be Elliot Goulds, refreshing by virtue of its utter pessimism.

YMCA Revenue Running Short

By DOUG BROWN Staff Writer

“Students have not been as receptive as could have been hoped,” said Lester Strong of this year's YMCA fund drive. Strong is vice president of the YMCA and head of the drive. This year’s goal was $3,500. About $2.50 per person is collected each year, but Strong does not feel it is unreasonable for each student to contribute $4.00. The drive was held on Sept. 29 and 30. The faculty and administration have in the past given strongly to the drive according to Strong. However, the North Mecklenburg YMCA fund drive and the United Appeal are currently underway, and the contributions this year may be smaller. Consequently, the drive has depended more this year on student support. The Davidson College YMCA is supported entirely by funds raised at this time.

What we have here is a documentary of the beginning of the end of the Great American Nation. The central thesis is that old class distinctions based on economics are being replaced by division based on the polarity between capitalists and the emerging youth drug culture. Radical post-Marxian sociology is thus the subject, and I think in this situation we have the makings of the great American epic. Faulkner thought the American saga was the Civil War and subsequent desolation of the South. A.B. Guthrie found it in the rape of the Indian nation. But I think the definitive American experience is to be plucked from the scenery in which men like the characters in “Joe” live.

The hero, Joe, is a mythical figure: the quintessential Middle American, in Richard Nixon's sense of the term and also Norman Mailer’s. His problems are those of the nation, and his actions reflect the innermost, secret, horrible social program of our nation’s “leaders.” Well, “Joe” explores the political and psychological union of the American working man with his political and economic bosses. The union is based on their common hate for the youth drug cult, which they see as a privileged class having all the fun without suffering the scourge of law and moral custom.

The plot: advertising executive William Compton, in a fit of rage, kills a junkie who has been living with his daughter and has sent her on a bum trip. In a bar...Later that day he inadvertently gives himself away to a blue-collar worker, Joe, who surprisingly does not use the knowledge for blackmail, but instead openly admires Compton for this consummate act of political bravery. In fact, Joe is eager to fraternize with Compton; he dreams of going around killing hippies and blacks, if an excuse could be found. I refuse to recount any plot details. It is too powerful. See it for yourself.

The movie's power derives from careful character studies of Joe and Compton. We are made to feel that Joe, the hard hat moral monster of Spiro Agnew's dreams, lives and walks among us. He is America personified. Moreover, Joe’s leaders—Compton, Nixon, Agnew—are of one spirit with him—in bloodlust, sexual perversion, and selfishness. The outward respectability which demarks them into "separate" classes is dissolved by the powerful hate which they share.

Peter Boyle's performance as Joe is the central strength of the movie. Beer-gutted and lumpy-muscular, Joe is the archetypical worker whose drive to express his own standards and masculine pride has been rerouted into perverse and murderous channels. The care-worn face of Compton reveals a tortured spirit which can only be soothed for a time by the pleasure of discovering his own bloodlust.

Who is saved? The main thrust of the movie is toward analysis of the union of worker and the ruling class, but this fusion is catalyzed by the new hippie cult. Joe will strike most audiences as being one notch above "Easy Rider" or the others in its treatment of the youth drug cult. In a two-hour movie, there is no time left to explore the drug cult too, but some of the glaring errors of "Easy Rider" have been avoided. The producers of "Joe" have refrained from portraying the druggies as saints and apostles of the messianic rebirth. The junkies in "Joe" are not beautiful people mindlessly cycling their way across the western badlands in search of America. They are desperate for their fixes, pure and simple. I think this is a realistic portrayal.

Neither is there an attempt to absolve anyone—drugger or capitalist—from the criminality which engulfs them all. I do not mean the "crime" of possession and use; I mean the crime of selling heroin to strangers, which is surely as reckless and murderous as the last reel of "Joe" when the capitalists run shotgun wild. I call "Joe" an honest movie, serious in its intent to artfully recreate the radical’s social analysis of America. It is not yet a personal work, except as it delineates Joe. You will laugh at this blubbery hard hat bastard. You will feel guilty about it afterwards.

The Coffee Cup
DEPOT ST.
DAVIDSON
OPEN 6 A.M. TO 7 P.M.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — ICE STEAKS — Salads
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The Changing Clothes for the Changing Man
Come see our belted bi-swing coats, flared pants, big belts, wider ties, fringed vests, bold shirts, and boots.
Davidsonians, use your automatic charge account.
Clothes for the Pace Setter
Mooresville, N. C.