che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly, at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO - APRIL 10, 1970

One Was The Loneliest Number

It may seem to the casual observer that all the king’s horses and all the king’s men couldn’t put the
Machi House back together again. It may seem that way, but the truth is that all those horses and men
were not trying to help the Machi House. Unfortunate indeed is the truth that no powers rushed to the aid
of the local fraternity group that tried to replace the Sigma Chi fraternity here. Instead, the group faltered and then
fell as the national fraternity was reinstated in its former house.

The point that seems to have been missed by all parties in the dispute is that 12 is not a
magic number. There is no reason in the universe that there should be 12 and only 12 social organizations on
the campus. The fact is that the people who tried to form a local fraternity could still make that effort.
They could be joined by others with the same aspirations. And if such a coalition could be formed, it would
be imperative that it have official college support.

It is generally agreed that Davidson needs groups to organize social life. At present, there are only twelve such groups
(neglecting the Union which at best is poorly run as an only nominal alternative to the system). These twelve groups,
however, cannot in our opinion be the best solution to the problem because they are based on anachronisms and an
atavistic exclusionism that should have no place at Davidson.

Power And The Nation

Dean Rusk’s 1962 visit to Davidson was hailed in THE DAVIDSONIAN as one of Davidson's finest hours. In 1970, however,
we cannot in good conscience make the same claim. There is no doubt that Rusk is a visitor whose presence
can distinguish any campus. Even so, we have to agree with the students, and there are many of them, who
expressed real disappointment at what Rusk had to say.

It may be that Rusk’s cautious non-committal was a result of his years in positions of great power. It may
be that he is only another victim of the “say-nothing” syndrome which afflicts so many Davidson speakers. Whatever his motivation,
Rusk did make at least one statement with which we disagree heartily. Tuesday night Rusk quoted Lord Acton as having
said, “Power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely.” Rusk said that he did not think that the United States of
America had been corrupted by its position of power.

It is frightening to think that a man who has wielded as much power as Rusk has could make such
a statement. In his lecture, Rusk purported to be speaking to students in an effort to bridge the age gap
between those students and himself. Yet he missed one of the major concerns of those very students.

We look at the colossal shame of involvement in Vietnam and there is just no way that we cannot say
that power has corrupted the U.S. of A. We can look at uncalled-for militaristic bullying in the Bay of Pigs
and in the Dominican Republic, and there is no way to deny the arrogance of power. We can turn inward
to strife that has erupted because the people of this nation, or at least too many of them, have been
denied their basic civil and physical rights, and it becomes very hard to say that power has not corrupted something
of the national character.

No, we do not agree with Rusk’s assessment of the effect of power on the U.S. We cannot hold his
cautious view of the forces that we are involved with today. We cannot join Rusk in his seat on the
top of an exceedingly established and comfortable fence. Rather, we would hope to come down off that fence and meet
our problems with a conviction and innovation too long absent from the U.S. of A.

The Silence-Conspiracy

Perhaps the greatest injustice in the recent faculty dismissal of the RHC 24-hour open dorms proposal was the way students
were treated in the maneuverings. First, it is a fact that although the faculty meeting was called the Thursday before,
no students were informed of the upcoming consideration. The three students who were to present the proposal to the faculty
found out about the meeting quite by accident on the day it was to take place. One of the students
overheard a member of the administration mention the meeting, and another was notified only five minutes before he was to
begin ROTC drill. Is this any way to treat the students?

Second, the faculty acted only to defeat (crush) the plan without leaving any recourse to the students. The vote was
taken, but no official recommendations or suggestions were given to the RHC as to what they might do next. Such
hints would have been invaluable to the students since there is no official course of action left open to them
in the present system. Is this any way to treat the students?

Third, it seems from unofficial reports leaking from the faculty members to the students that much of the debate in
the meeting concerned issues on which students could have shed invaluable light. The problem in this case is that there
is a great conspiracy of silence surrounding faculty deliberation. Students with presentations for the faculty may only stay until debate
by the faculty begins. They may not respond to issues raised in that debate. Further, the faculty constitution does not
permit members to freely discuss the meetings once they have ended, and interested students must glean their information as they
can from unofficial and off-the-record sources. Is this any way to treat the students?

We think not. It is extremely unfortunate that the proposal was defeated in such a high-handed manner. We hope that
the RHC may find ways to continue their efforts in spite of the faculty's move. It is also our hope
that the faculty will see fit to begin to move in the direction of greater student participation in faculty decisions.
Not only would student testimony be valuable to the faculty, but such participation might help erase current bad feelings between
the students and faculty. Opening faculty meetings to students would be a bold step for a college that prides itself
on the quality of its student body.

“Justifiable Homicide?”

To the editor:

SPRING

By Henry Gibson

Oh, gentle season of and flowers,
And warm days softened by April's showers,
Oh, time of mating in fresh-leaved trees,
And ly leaved trees, the paper’s campaign against fraternities.

Yes, Spring is here and for the fourth time in as many years, I will read that hazing is illegal;
that Greek Week is immature; that pledge training is irrelevant and debasing; and that fraternities are anti-intellectual and undemocratic. In
sum, fraternities have no place at Davidson.

I wish to oppose this conclusion. Fraternities serve the school well. In addition to augmenting the Union's social program and
providing a more attractive place to eat, fraternities provide an alternative to the dormitory atmosphere. THE DAVIDSONIAN will readily admit
these advantages. But are not advantages found in a non-selective social eating club?

THE DAVIDSONIAN'S opposition to fraternities’ tradition of exclusiveness is interesting. The paper is always enthusiastic about any proposal to make
this college more democratic. Yet, it is not so enthusiastic about the real value of fraternities. I am merely saying
that exclusivism is not a valid point of criticism. Fraternities provide an opportunity for group relationship which is not present
in a non-selective social eating club.

To the Editor:

In the beginning of this school year, hedonistic Davidson students were keeping girls in their rooms after appointed hours. Being
a hedonistic person myself and living off campus in Charlotte, I was quite jealous of the situation here. When I
had a date, I just didn’t have the time to take a girl into a room with only a bed
and two chairs. There was always something to do. Charlotte has the disadvantage of offering good concerts and places to
eat. When miraculously I did set the time to take a girl to my pad, there wasn't the great setting
which the on-campus student had. There were comfortable chairs to sit in, a table to sit at, a television to
look at. I never had the chance to “shack up.”

Oh, how I longed for the life of the on-campus hedonistic student! But times have changed. Davidson College teachers and
administrators are guilty of this. The time has come to take action against those remaining people in our community who
still are enjoying their hedonistic adventures. What applies to one person in our community must apply to all. In order
to enforce this, the real value of fraternities. I am merely saying that exclusivism is not a valid point of
criticism. Fraternities provide an opportunity for group relationship which is not present.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

---

In talking clubs. The sad experience of the Atacai Club teaches us that some high purpose is needed, one above
eating and partying. Not every fraternity member will appreciate the spirit of fraternal association, but neither is he hurt by
those mysteries which he considers bogus.

More good than Thornton Believes Past Slavery No Reason For Racial Blackmail

To the Editor:

I appreciate the space given my comments in your April 3 issue. The faculty has finally recognized this unfair situation
and have decreed that the ways of the hedonistic on-campus student are not consistent with the ways of the college
community. They have therefore taken an official stand stating that girls cannot be allowed to stay overnight in the dorm
room of any college student. I applaud this stand. If I can't have the hedonistic life which I desire, neither
can the on-campus student. But let us not stop here. How many people in our college community are living with
women?

They deny that real-world exclusivism should be found on this campus. They paint in the Spencer rule upon everybody. I
suggest that a greater security force be established to make bed checks not only on campus but off-campus as well,
including students, administrators, and faculty. (Perhaps a better method of bed checks would be janitors who come in to change
light bulbs every morning.) Being a law-abiding hedonist, I realize that such people must be allowed to check up on
me also. My address can be found in the college directory.

— Chris Sikes '72 Davidson College

PERcept — By PAUL E. ROWLAND

Those Upstanding Davidson Men

An eminent authority on almost everything received riotous applause from the 1200 Davidson students filling Loathe Auditorium the other night
when he announced, “I hate bigots.” The eminent authority delivered an eloquent address to the students defending his assertion “almost
everything is inevitable despite anyone's willingness to contemplate whatever is happening.” “There are no absolutes,” declared the tall bearded gentleman.
When a few students snickered at his espousal of situational ethics, he made a derogatory gesture with his left hand
and continued his address.

Despite the pessimistic outlook and his status as the greatest living authority on the subject, the short black man spoke
out strongly against suicide, calling for legislation which would make stiffer the penalties for attempted suicide. He suggested a mandatory
death sentence.

With respect to outside instigators of campus agitation and other troublemakers, the young long-haired speaker counseled, “don't take any advice.”
The aging gentleman then ended his talk with a lectern-pounding shouting call for a return to reason. Following the politely
responsive applause, a few students sitting in the front of the auditorium jumped up in their anxiety to return to
their studies. Those who had dozed during the address were apparently awakened by the ruckus and joined in the standing
applause, wondering what they had missed.

Soon the entire audience was giving the grinning speaker a standing ovation, with the exception of some faculty members whose
feet had gone to sleep. Following the speech, students were allowed questions from the floor. When one smart aleck accused
the speaker of “gross generalizations,” he was told, “Nonsense! I qualify everything I say.”

When the chain-smoking speaker was asked about the evidence that cancer and cigarette smoking are related, he dismissed the notion,
adding that “nine out of ten statistics are very misleading.”

Turning to national matters, students asked about the Senate’s haggling over the Carswell nomination. Calling the Senate “unqualified to judge
the man,” the speaker observed, “The Republicans let Nixon choose Agnew, didn't they? Just think what another choice like that
could do for the Supreme Court!”

In a special interview later, the speaker confided that he would have preferred Julius Hoffman to Carswell but that both
are equally qualified.

The father of five is no mean figure himself, having recently been appointed to head the administration’s study of population
control. Commenting on cultural trends, the speaker noted that, “from the theater of the absurd to non-novels to plotless cinema
etc., it is only logical that we proceed to absurd public speaking.”

Apparently unwilling to tackle any more questions, the speaker offered one last thought: “As Ralph Waldo Emerson once said, ‘Consistency
is the hobgoblin of little minds.’”

Chamber Orchestra Adept At Sounds Of The Sandlot

A REVIEW By TOM SINKS

The Princeton Chamber Orchestra is an informally organized team that has been said to play a sort of sandlot chamber
music. I attended their recent game in Love Auditorium. The Davidson Orchestra was not present since they had an away
concert at the lower Sandusky Philharmonic Hall.

The first thing I noticed was that both the orchestra and the crowd appeared to be quite unhappy. The group's
unhappiness was quite understandable, for I suppose they had just realized that they were going to have to divide the
meager stipend given to them by the social council.

After I had been seated for several pieces, I began to understand why the crowd was unhappy. The lead violinist
was particularly adept at making sounds on her violin that closely resembled the sound made by dragging your fingernails along
a chalkboard. Most of their selections started slowly, then drifted gradually up to a tedious bunching of sound which was
not resolved but merely allowed to die slowly. Perhaps the most exciting point of the evening was when the team
suddenly stopped playing in the middle of one particularly monotonous piece. The crowd, understandably eager to end this portion of
the program, tried to applaud in order to snuff out the music, but before they had the opportunity, the group
had already turned the pages and resumed play. This scene was repeated a dozen times during the evening.

The violoncello soloist was Marion Davies from West Frankfurt, Illinois. Marion was one of the most sought-after players among the
high school prospects. She is a fine player, but her unwillingness to pass off creates a problem in the pros.
Whenever the rest of the group attempted to enter play, Marion would abruptly stop and sulk until they quieted down
so she could continue.

Midway through the last piece of the first half, the violinists decided to cool their bows and commenced plucking their
violins. The result was strongly reminiscent of the dance of the Sugar Plum Fairies and “Foggy Mountain Breakdown.”

During the intermission, the players rearranged their chairs in what appeared to be an attempt to confuse their coach, Nicholas
Harsanyi. Harsanyi, considered by many to be the “Adolph Rupp of Chamber Music,” was not phased by this maneuver. He
merely changed his game plan by cutting out the last piece and threw in five French ditties which sped the
game up.

The crowd, which was supposedly quite musically intelligent, made a serious mistake at the end of regulation play when it
delivered a standing ovation to the Princeton team, which forced them into overtime. This team is skilled at both the
zone and man-to-man approaches to chamber music. The zone approach is favored by coach Harsanyi, but he is skillful at
the man-to-man (exemplified by soloist Davies) when it is called for. The game last Friday night was a classic piece
of Harsanyi's strategy at the stall.

---

I hope this meets your needs!
