Page Eight October 9, 1970

Heckard Pushes Football Funding
BY ERNIE SHIPE
Sports Editor

(First in a series)

“It is up to us whether we can sink or swim,” said Steve Heckard in assessing the Wildcat Club’s position in funding the football program. The Wildcat Club took over the funding of the football program as a result of the Spencer Commission and a trustees meeting last winter. When the Spencer Commission report recommended that the football program move toward desubsidization, they were suggesting that the amount of scholarship money awarded to a football player be based on financial need. At the trustees' winter meeting last year, they decided to finance the football program through a smaller amount from the college general fund, the remainder being made up through earmarked contributions.

Little progress toward the raising of funds was made last spring and summer. In late August, Steve Heckard was appointed by President Samuel Spencer as executive director of the Wildcat Club and Wildcat Athletic Fund with the purpose of raising funds for football scholarships. Heckard, a 27-year-old native of Winston-Salem, played quarterback and end at Davidson from 1963 to 1965. After three years with the Los Angeles Rams, he completed a tour of duty with the army where he served as an assistant football coach at West Point.

“Presently we have raised $35,000 toward our goal of $150,000, which is supposed to be met by January. $28,000 of the $35,000 was given to the football program before Heckard’s job was created. The new method of funding the football program will take effect for the 1971 season.

BLOCKED PENALTY ATTEMPT
(Staff Photo by Doty)
Goalie Paul Caldwell prevents a penalty shot from entering the Davidson goal in soccer action against Pfeiffer.

Booters Down Pfeiffer; Stay Undefeated, Untied
By PETER MICHAEL
Sports Writer

“We're undefeated, untied, but scored upon.” Thus Coach Harry Fogleman describes Davidson's soccer team following victories in the first two games. Davidson defeated Methodist by a 2-0 score last Friday at Fayetteville. The booters followed with a 7-5 victory Tuesday over Pfeiffer.

In the Pfeiffer game, Bill Vaughn again led off by scoring early in the first period when he followed up on a well-placed Davidson free kick. After a Pfeiffer score, Brian Tarr took a shot that deflected off of the goalie’s hands and into the goal. A Pfeiffer score with only 20 seconds remaining in the first quarter closed Davidson’s lead to 3-2.

Peter-Josef Hans, an international student from Germany, widened the lead to 4-2 as he led off the second quarter with a score. Team captain Dick Levan opened the second half by taking another beautifully placed free kick, faking the goalie, and going in for an easy score. Pfeiffer proceeded to score two goals and was robbed of a third when sophomore goalie Paul Caldwell brilliantly blocked a penalty kick. According to Fogleman, strategy played a part in the block. “I watched their penalty kicker during practice and I noticed that he kicked every ball to the right. So I told the goalies to break to the right and it worked.”

The starting team was reinserted when the score closed to 6-4. Peter Hans’ third goal of the game, which he scored unassisted, put the game away, a later goal by Pfeiffer producing the final 7-5 score.

Around $800 from the College general fund will be given to each of the 52 football players on scholarship. The $150,000 will be used to implement these scholarships and defray other football expenses. Last year, the total football scholarship budget was about $120,000. The new program is expected to save the college money.College about $100,000 a year. Heckard is optimistic about reaching the goal and has made definite plans to meet it. On Oct. 16, the Friday before homecoming, a dinner is scheduled at Myers Park County Club for the Wildcat Club members. Many important members of the club have been invited and here outlines for the fund drive will be presented. Both Heckard and Coach Dave Fagg will speak to the Wildcat Club members on the future of Davidson’s football program. Heckard estimated that between 75 to 100 members will be in attendance.

After the banquet, Heckard explained that it will be his job "to identify groups of people who can give to the program." The two groups he stressed that need to be located and organized are former football players and Wildcat Club members. Heckard related that from mid-October to December will be his busiest period. He expects to be traveling across the country and attempting to sell alumni on the value of giving to the program. "This effort to fund the football program has received good vocal support so far," Heckard said. "What we need to do now is convert this vocal support into tangible results."

Heckard is not on his own in selling the new program. His work is being coordinated with Howard Arbuckle, Director of Alumni Affairs, and Russell A. Strong, Director of Public Information. Davidson head coach Dave Fagg was elated and relieved at Heckard’s work. "This is one of the best things that has happened since I became coach," Fagg said. "The fund raising has been on my mind a lot. Now I can concentrate more on coaching the football team."

Wildcats Tackle Bisons At Home
By JOE EARLE
Sports Writer

Davidson's Wildcats will take on Bucknell’s blue and gold Bisons tomorrow at 2 p.m. on Richardson Field. Bucknell will be defending a 1-2 record after losses to Baldwin-Wallace College and Temple University and a homecoming victory over Gettysburg College. The Bisons feature a running attack led by Don Giacomelli at halfback and Rick Diez at fullback. Both gained over 100 yards carrying the ball against Gettysburg last week. Diez is a sophomore who did not start at the first of the season, but now maintains the highest rushing average on the Bucknell offense.

Perhaps the biggest problem the Bisons will present offensively is the passing of a pair of quarterbacks. Both Greg Doviak and Howard Burke fill the key slot and both pass a great deal of the time. Burke is another sophomore surprise. He first saw action against Baldwin-Wallace late in the game and almost turned the tide. The Bisons came from under a 23-0 halftime deficit to lose by 29-21. Burke hit a touchdown pass, and then completed another against Gettysburg. Both quarterbacks pass extensively, Burke having hit for 245 total yards and Doviak rolling up 249 yards in the air. Favored receivers appear to be Paul Gilewicz, split end, and Jerome Griffith, tight end. Both received for one touchdown against Gettysburg.

The Bison defense keys around Gene Depew, a 235-pound senior. Depew is a multiple threat man, filling positions at guard, tackle, and middle guard. He was elected co-captain of the team along with Giacomelli. The Bisons will run a monster-man defense for the first time this year with Dan Spahn or John Smesko as monster. The defensive line is almost all lettermen from last year, featuring an average weight of 230 pounds. The defensive secondary has a new addition to the team with only one senior, Gene Lucarelli, returning. This has not hampered their performance in the early season, however, and they have intercepted four passes, two by Lucarelli. Tony Lucardo stopped a Baldwin-Wallace drive with a clutch interception.

Bucknell’s offensive line is perhaps its most questionable area. The line is being filled with sophomores and untested juniors. Only one starter from last year, John Klenovic, returns. He is the center. The remaining positions are being filled by new men or last year’s reserves. Still, Coach Prender called this a potentially better unit than before with bigger and quicker men.