(Staff photo by Davidson) WITH A FEARLESS BACKHAND Delt. Cliff Patterson returns a shot in IMAC play.

Pikas-Delts Duel Rests on Tomorrow’s Spring Game

Displays New Action

The action starts at 2 p.m. tomorrow on the football field; the offensive teams can't be blamed if all they can see is red. Both the first and second team offenses will be in white uniforms while the defenses will wear red jerseys as the second annual spring football game is played at Richardson Field. This will be the first opportunity for Davidson fans to see the new wishbone offense in game action. Admission is free.

Head coach Dave Fagg is retaining the format of last year's game with the first team offense and defense together against the second teams. He said he expected a closer game this year because “we're a lot deeper this year and there isn’t as much difference between the first and second teams.”

According to assistant coach Turnley Todd, the new offense is beginning to fall into place. “This is the newest theory in running an offense. It promises to be very effective with our personnel.

“Offenses keep changing in order to be effective. First it was the single wing, then the T, then the option, and now we're to the point of the triple option.”

The new offense will bring changes for Todd's charges, the offensive linemen. “There will be some changes with the new offense as far as blocking assignments go. We'll be doing more trapping, more double teaming, and more pulling than we did in the past. There is a great deal of pressure to do more than pass protection.”

The flexibility of the offense, which is one of its strong points, also works somewhat of a hardship on the offensive line. “We’ll have a greater number of assignments to carry out. In setting up the offense, we looked at different blocking systems and tried to decide which would work best for what we had in mind.

“It helps to have the experienced boys that we do have this year, but in some ways, it might be best with a newer group. The line we have this year has played for three years under one system and now they are trying to master a new one. But I think both the offense and the defense are beginning to grasp the new system.

Todd continued, “It remains to be seen just how well the new plays work; the only way to decide that is in games. It has possibilities of being better for us.

“I think I'd like it better as an offensive lineman because it gives me more ways to attack one man, the double team, trap block. It has to help the ground game and that running game is fundamental to the whole game.

“It will be different than last year’s lineup but it can accomplish as much. We are going to try to make as much of the passing game as possible.”

On Tennis Meet Results

By BILLY COBB
Sports Writer

For the second year in a row, the IMAC overall championship has narrowed down to a race between the Delts and the Pikas with only tennis remaining. Also for the second year in a row, the Pikas have been eliminated and have to watch the Delts try to progress far enough in tennis to overcome the Pikas’ narrow lead. The Delts need a second-place finish in tennis in order to win the overall title.

The Pikas protected their narrow 19-point lead in the softball competition when they nipped the SPE’s to tie the Delts for first place with a 10-2 mark. The Delts dropped their apparent championship with losses in their last two contests. The Delts overwhelmed the last two times Machis reeled off were a 15-3 win and then the SPE’s took a 14-1 victory. On Monday, the Pikas beat the SPE’s 8-5 in a game to decide which of the two tied the Delts for the championship. The Pikas lost to the Delts and the Betas while the SPE’s fell to the Pikas, the ATO’s, and the KA’s.

The Delts were paced by the defense of Jack Caldwell at shortstop and Cliff Patterson at second base. Hamp Whittington and Greg Sikes were outstanding in the outfield for the co-champions. The Pikas were led by the hitting of outfielders Steve McNabb and Bill Berry, and infielders George Graff and Jack Ballenger. The SPE’s were perhaps the most talented team in the league, behind the pitching of Bob Dunham, who registered an ERA near 2.00 for the season. Home run king Buzz Tarver led the hitting as a shortstop along with Craig Garner. John Bruner and Dave Shepler were outstanding defensively.

The leaders dominated the all-star team with Dunham, Garner, and Gary Sigmon of the SPE’s making the first team along with Pikas Ken Prestwich and Joe Lansinger and the Delt’s Patterson. Also named to the first unit were Steve Hayes (Nu), Jerry Kroll (Machi), Fox Demoisey (Machi), Scott Nicholson (Gamm), and Steve Williams (KA).

Named to the second unit were Sigs Mike Kelly, Terry Millar, Gary Cornette, and Chris Giles, SPE's Bruner, Dave Shepler, and Tarver. Others were Bo Wood (KA), Caldwell, Jim Montgomery (ATO), and Gamm Sean McCormick.

In tennis, the Sigs, Billy Mohr and William Brown, defeated the Machis, John Saunders and Joe Delk, to remain the final team in the winners' bracket of the double-elimination tournament.

* * * Sportstopics * * *

Gordon Slade was the only three-year choice for the NCAA All-District 3 baseball team released Wednesday. Slade was named as the centerfielder on the team off of his .346 batting average. Earlier, Slade had been honored as the third ‘Evansville, Indiana, Sportsman of the Year.’ The two previous winners have been Miami Dolphin quarterback Bob Griese and the Chicago Bulls’ all-star guard Jerry Sloan. Slade has gone to the Baltimore Colts rookie workout and meeting and returned unsigned, deciding to wait for the baseball draft.

“Baltimore made a fairly decent offer,” Slade said, “and I think they would rather have me signed. But they understood the situation and didn’t put any pressure on me at all.

“I really haven't made up my mind yet but most of the baseball people seem to think I'm going to pick football.”

At the academic awards dinner Wednesday, the top athletes of the past season were honored as most valuable to their teams. Winning the trophies were Randy Jones, tennis; Danny White, golf; Cliff Patterson, soccer; Gordon Slade, baseball; Mac Davis, swimming; John Puckett, cross country; David Felkel, rifle team; and Jack Jacobs, wrestling. Ray Swetenburg won the track team's Merchant Award for highest point total for an individual on the team and the Fetzer Award for excellence. Harold Wilkerson won the Smyre Award for hustle on the baseball team. Tommy Peters Memorial Award went to George Hannen as the student who best exemplified the Davidson spirit in intercollegiate competition.

Coach Harry Fogleman was curious after the four-hour 33-minute finals match which Jeff Chetwood lost to Furman’s Johnny Harrison at sixth court in the Southern Conference tournament. An investigation of the United States Lawn Tennis Association's records showed that the match was, indeed, the longest three-set match on file, in any kind of competition. Fogleman said, “I was almost certain that the match must have been some kind of record. It seemed like Jeff was down there forever.” Fogleman added, “That record is for all competition, men’s, women’s, juniors’, anything.”we can.” and so forth. The wishbone formation is becoming more and more popular so the Wildcat staff had several teams to look at when they were designing the Davidson variant. “The theory of ours is a mixture of Texas’ and The Citadel's.”

Probable Starters
The Davidsonian
May 29, 1970

FIRST TEAM
Rick Lyon SE
Stuart Kennedy LT
Leonard Baugham LG
Jim Long C
Frank Rader RG
John Harper RT
Jim Ellison T
Mark Thompson QB
Dave Mockbee HB
Mike Mikolayunas FB
John Ribet HB
Chris Giles LB
Rick Snipes E
Ken Totherow TE
Woody Montgomery LB
Sean McCormick T
Jim Buchanan E
Robert Norris LB
Nick Dumich HB
Jack Ballenger S
John Barbee RB
Tom Vandiver HB

SECOND TEAM
Randy Parker
Sandy Carnegie
Tim Ebert
Bill Nicklas
Robert Elliott
Larry Spears
Bob Niebauer
Ricky Kemmerlin
Bill Bracken
Richard Neal
Ted Woods
Mike Sikes
Mike Tombari
Bill Garrett
Joe Poteat
Hugh Dennis
Steve Ets
Larry John Maloney
Rick Hawarah
Andy Ingles
Terry

Talented Freshman Picks May Be Best Ever-Holland
By RICK BUSH
Sports Writer

Remember Fred Hetzel? Or Dick Snyder? How about this year's Big Three, Maloy, Cook, Kroll? Well, get ready to add to that group of Davidson stars, get ready to add the Big Six. That's the number of signees Davidson's coaching staff came up with in their first full year of recruiting. In a key year for the future of Davidson basketball, Coach Terry Holland and his assistants have met with tremendous success. “We think we've got the best freshman team ever,”

WBT Radio Drops Wildcats In Favor Of Duke

You'll have to find a new radio spot on your dial next year if you want to hear the broadcast of Davidson College basketball games. On May 14, Paul Marion, vice president and managing director of WBT, informed Dr. Tom Scott, Davidson Athletic Director, that his station would no longer originate and broadcast Davidson basketball games. WBT has carried Davidson basketball games for the past six years.

“We have recently spent considerable time evaluating our entire sports programming for WBT Radio. There is a very strong feeling within our own company that we need to originate a major football schedule as well as basketball. There is also a strong feeling that this should be with an ACC university. After a great deal of deliberation and considering all the factors involved, we have decided to advise that we will not be able to offer Davidson basketball for the 70-71 season,” Marion emphasized.

Scott expressed regret at the move because he felt that Davidson basketball would not be of poor quality. “Duke just made us an offer which we could not turn down.” Scott emphasized that Davidson's attitude was not one of discontent because of the quality which WBT had expressed as one of the reasons for the move. “The radio exposure is invaluable. On WBT we could be heard all along the Eastern seaboard, from Canada to Cuba. This is an area where we recruit a lot of boys for basketball. One of the best recruiting points was that the parents could listen to all the games on the radio.”

The late date of notification has put pressure on the athletic department to find another station to originate the broadcasts as well as to set up a network to carry the games over a wide area. Negotiations are now underway. The new arrangement will probably include the Davidson football games as well as the basketball contests, says Holland. This could mean a team equalling or surpassing that undefeated team led by the Big Three.

The signing of T. J. Pecorak in February signaled the start of the big year. The 6'6" Pecorak was followed by two April signees. First, John Falconi, from the Bronx, entered the fold. At 6'5" Falconi can play either wing or guard and could provide a major part of the scoring punch for the freshmen. Steve Gadaire was the second April signee, a wing prospect at 6'5". Gadaire, from the Boston area, has been rated by Holland as “the finest basketball player from New England this year.”

May, the final month of the recruiting effort, proved to be the most productive. Already accepted is Dave Crawford, a native of South Hill, Va. Crawford could become the big man that Davidson has always needed. Coach Holland is very high on Crawford and assures skeptics that the big boy has the ability that other big men in Davidson's past have lacked. Crawford is very strong. He is a good rebounder and a good defensive player. He has the tools to become exceptional. He needs to work on his scoring, but with next year’s team, he won't be the one counted on to score.

Two others were added in May and are only awaiting formal acceptance to officially become a part of the Big Six. These two are Paul Wagner and Mike Sorrentino. Wagner, from Washington, D.C., could, at 6'7", be the other low post. However, he handles the ball well enough to be a guard, so he could become part of the scramble for a starting berth at wing. Sorrentino, a New York product from Archbishop Molloy High School, will be the point man, directing the offense. Bryan Adrian was extremely pleased that Sorrentino decided to follow him to Davidson. “He’s a good guard and should be a big help to the team.”

The recruiting also produced extra benefits this year, as two more big boys decided to come without scholarships. Bob VanderGriend is a 6'9" center from Bradenton, Fla., who is coming on his own. He chose Davidson because of the pre-med program and could be a big help to Crawford. Coming on an ROTC scholarship is Gordon Glasgow, from San Francisco. Glasgow, at 6'6", is touted as a tough competitor who could fight for a post position.

Of course, Holland is pleased, to say the least. “We're in the dark on all these guys as to how they'll eventually help the varsity. But next year's freshman team should really be something to watch.”

Riflemen Finish Winning Season

The Davidson rifle team completed its season with several top marksmen winning individual honors and the team finishing just over .500. Leading the team to a 21-22 final record were All Western Carolinas Conference selections David Stimson, Mort Chiles, Felkel, and Vance. Rounding out the team were Laney, Cio, Max Thomason, and Maxwell.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Whar-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

GETTING ENGAGED?
MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N. C.

With the school year drawing to a close, we wish each of you:
Good Luck on Exams
A FINE SUMMER VACATION
A GOOD CAMP...
A GREAT TRIP

Don't Go To TIFFANY'S
(They’re over 30)
Whatever you do this summer

To Summer School Students
Your STUDENT STORE
(Just 6 years old)
Has Young Prices
GOOD SESSION

To Graduates:
THE BEST IN THE FUTURE
COME SEE US
John Mack & THE STUDENT STORE
Davidson

Shop and Compare
(Then buy with a guarantee)
Clothing for the Pace Setter
Mooresville