Page Eight October 30, 1970

The Ravitdaontast

Terriers Rushing Attack Humiliate Wildcats, 35-13

By JOE EARLE
Sports Writer

“Terrible” was the word Dave Fagg thought best summed up the Wofford game. “They played an excellent game of football,” Fagg, head coach for the Davidson Wildcats, commented later, “and we helped them in a lot of ways.”

The Wildcats were downed by the Terriers of Wofford 35-13 last week in Spartanburg, S.C. “Wofford is one of the strongest teams we have played,” Fagg said. “They had a terrifically powerful offense.”

Wofford controlled the ball throughout much of the game, generally using a ground attack against the Wildcats. “There was a great variety in their attack,” Fagg said, “sometimes they would run off guard, then switch to off tackle, and then use end runs. We could never know which they would use.”

“They consistently came up with short yardage situations, say fourth and one or two, which they always managed to pick up.” Fagg complimented the abilities of the Terriers backfield, particularly on their speed and strength. “They had one little fullback who just didn’t give a damn,” he said. “He was small, but he could break through the line and be good for four or five yards a run.”

Fagg pointed out that the members of the Terrier backfield have been playing together for four years, and have become a highly polished unit. Fagg said he felt that the problem of ball control, the greatest problem facing the Wildcats in the game, could not be blamed on any one unit of the Davidson team. He stated likely though the target for criticism would be the defense. When the defense did hold the Terriers, the offense could not capitalize on their possession of the ball. “We would run three plays and have to punt,” he said, “which is not the way to control the game.”

Davidson suffered from the inability to maintain a sustained drive, turning the ball over three times before making a first down during the first quarter. Later in the game, the offense managed to get its attack going, and the ’Cats made 19 first downs against the Terriers' 22.

Fagg cited several incidents during the game that he felt greatly helped the Wofford morale, particularly a fumble by Mark Thompson on the two-yard line and an interception. “It’s hard to tell what exactly caused the fumble, but it appeared to be due to a great amount of penetration through our line. Thompson was hit while he was pitching out, so he had no control over the ball.”

Fagg said he was greatly disturbed about the lack of penalties throughout the game, particularly the absence of...

Wildkittens Lose

By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

Behind 28-0 in the third quarter, the Davidson Wildkittens staged a dramatic comeback, only to see their hopes dashed 42-29 on a final surge by the Wake Forest freshmen. Wake Forest, coming off a victory over the North Carolina freshmen, surged to a 28-0 lead with the help of four breakaway runs.

“Our defense played well except on these four long runs,” Coach Gene McEver commented. “We were set up wrong on those four plays and it certainly showed.” The Wake Forest running game ground out yardage against the Kittens defense, and running back gained 287 yards.

But the second half belonged to the Wildkittens. The Davidson running game came alive, with John Webel scoring twice and gaining 125 yards and quarterback Steve Keller running in a score. When Frank McShane blocked a punt...and fell on it in the end zone for a touchdown, suddenly the score was 35-29. However, Wake ran out the last four minutes of the game, scoring again when only twenty seconds remained to assure them the victory. McEver was particularly pleased that the running attack got going this week and also expressed pleasure with the kickoff and punting teams. The loss evened the freshman record at 1-1. A week from today the team plays The Citadel in another away game. 

Forest's sense of pass interference calls. He said he had registered a protest, “Anyone can stop passing the way they did,” he said, “It’s disturbing to see the way Lyon and Mikolayunus had to fight for the ball.” Poor passing hurt the Wildcats, with Thompson connecting for only ten out of 27. Chandler for Wofford hit nine of 11. Penalties did not appreciably hurt the Wildcats who lost only one yard, while the Terriers were put back 42. “The defensive secondary was also a major problem,” Fagg commented, “They just didn’t seem to play up to par. Everyone had a poor game.”

By JOE EARLE
Sports Writer

The Davidson College sailing team will race in a regatta at the College of Charleston tomorrow. Last week the skippers sailed at Clemson University but the regatta was terminated after three heats due to lack of wind and intermittent rain. The Wildcats held fifth place out of seven teams, in the unofficial standings according to Allen Lundy, vice-commodore of the team. They placed behind Clemson, The Citadel, The University of South Carolina, and Duke, according to Lundy. These standings were not final since the necessary number of races was not run.

The boat positions varied in the A division. Phil Leonard skippered two races with Frank Bell taking the crew position in the first heat and Lundy in the second. Lundy skippered in the third A division race with Bell as crewman. In the B division, Daryl Douglas commanded the boat with Mark Leonard as crew. The A division team took two fifths and a third. Douglas placed second, third, and fourth in the B division races.

In Charleston, the team will race ‘Y-Flyers,’ the type of boat Jim Hunter raced in the national regatta. Hunter placed fifth in the nationals, behind Anne Boyd, the superstar sailor from the University of South Carolina. Boyd has been leading the conference with her sailing and took a third and two firsts at Clemson. “It is interesting to see the way the places went last week,” commented Lundy. “Two weeks ago we placed behind Charleston and beat Clemson badly. At Clemson, Charleston came in last.” Lundy said he was still convinced that the team could win the conference championship which will be held at Davidson this year.

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.
Jewelry
OPEN 9-8
The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 to 10:30
Phone 892-2111
Davidson, N. C.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Whar-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1818 W. Morehead
PIZZA