Fraternities Plan For Self-Selection System
By RICH WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Although Davidson's 12 national fraternities must decide on the recommendations of the Committee of Eighteen by December 15, a majority of the fraternities have already made their decision. The status of the fraternities as of press time is as follows:

Alpha Tau Omega voted to accept the college’s plan, keep their charter, and remain in their house, according to John Bolinger, ATO president. “Our national fraternity states that each chapter may decide their membership procedures within their own bylaws; consequently, we have to make a minor change in our bylaws to conform to the college’s proposal,” said Bolinger.

“When freshmen are randomly assigned,” he said, “we will do our best to accommodate their interests. If they want to go to another house, we will do our best to arrange a trade. As a house, we were generally opposed to the way the college’s plan was instituted.” Bolinger said he believed that “likes attract likes” and that those that didn’t fit in would not want to stay. “Whether we call ourselves a national or local fraternity, our main goal is to have a committed group, that is, a group that is committed to each other. We hope that we can retain this feeling within the new system,” he said.

Beta Theta Pi decided to accept the plan of the college and remain in their house, but they have not decided whether they will retain their national charter, according to Beta Vice President Dick Allison. “The question as to whether we will be able to keep our charter will probably be decided at the Beta national convention this July. A delegate from this house will raise this question at that time,” said Allison. “Whether we remain a national fraternity is up to the interpretation of this convention.” Allison did note, however, that the Beta national president has expressed his personal opinion that the method of selection defined by the college is incompatible with the constitution of the general fraternity. “Most of the guys enjoy eating down here,” said Allison. “They felt that the present operations of the house could still function within the guidelines of the college’s plan.”

Kappa Alpha President Robert Truitt refused to comment on the decision of his fraternity; however, freshmen who attended KA rush parties said they were told that the KAs plan to reject the plan of the college and move off campus. Some freshmen were also told that the KAs already had made a “verbal agreement” on a house.

Kappa Sigma voted to accept the college plan, retain their charter, and remain in their house on campus, according to John Harper, fraternity president. “We decided to go along with the college’s plan because we felt there was no way out of it,” said Harper. “As for our national charter, I imagine the national organization will allow us to keep it.”

Faculty
By RUSS MERRITT
Associate Editor

Faculty members, stung by the administration's failure to consult with them concerning recent administrative appointments, decided in a recent meeting to withhold any definite action until the return of College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. from Europe. The meeting, held Tuesday, Nov. 24, was called by Dr. John M. Bevan, college vice-president in charge of academic affairs, in response to a petition signed by 12-14 faculty members requesting a meeting to discuss the matter of major administrative appointments. This same petition had been signed by more than 50 faculty members by the time of the afternoon meeting.

According to a reliable source on the faculty, members of the faculty were upset over “the procedure by which the administration has made these appointments.” The new registrar and the new dean of students are featured in an interview on page 3. Davidson’s Gudmundur Karlsson is named Southern Soccer player of the Year, story on page 8.

Dick Anderson ...................... 4
Jges Smith ............................ 4
Sports .................................. 8

Published Weekly By Davidson College, DavidsonCollege Students Davidson, N.C. 28036

organization will and take it back.” Harper stipulated Kappa Sigma will cooperate with the school plan, but they will maintain “financial and supervisory” control. “We are not going to let the college decide on financial restrictions for this house,” he said. Phi Delta Theta voted to reject the new social system, keep their charter and (See VARIETY, Page 2).

The Davidsonian
December 11, 1970

Informal Rush Supported By Four Houses
By RICH WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The success of the rush which was held by the four national fraternities still participating at the end of the week will be determined tomorrow when the freshmen return their bid acceptances, according to Lyman Parrigin, rush spokesman. “At this time, however, I think the freshmen were responsive to the fraternities’ position,” said Parrigin. “Everybody at the other houses were happy with the number of people who showed up and with the general atmosphere which prevailed.”

Phi Gamma Delta President and UHall Counselor Charlie Parks, however, disagreed. “From what I've seen, rush was a big flop,” he said. “From the reaction I've gotten from freshmen and some upperclassmen in the houses conducting rush, I don't believe it was as successful as some people claim.”

Freshman Class President Bill Ralston said he felt most freshmen enjoyed rush. “I think the freshmen liked the opportunity to look at each house and gain the knowledge which they might not have attained otherwise. Many remarked to me how each fraternity had a different character and atmosphere,” he said.

Ralston maintained however that most freshmen are not sure of what the new social system will mean to them. “Many want to know whether the college will intervene to prevent swapping during the random assignment period,” he said. “Since many of the fraternities are not sure of what they will do,” said Ralston, “many of the freshmen are leery of accepting bids. I do not think a majority of the freshmen will in fact accept them.”

According to Parrigin the long-range purpose of the rush was “to get the trustees to reconsider their decision and allow a compromise between non-selective eating clubs and national fraternities.” “We feel that when presented with the point of view of four strong national fraternities, they will reconsider their previous decision which was based on some misinformation,” he said.

In response to this Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. said, “It is most unlikely that the trustees will reconsider their stand on fraternities. Their decision was a firm one. They have been considering the fraternity question for a number of consecutive years. I don’t think there is a remote chance that they will reconsider.”

(See NEW, Page 2)

(Staff Photo by Doty)
THE NEW, INFORMAL LOOK IN RUSH
Open collars replace vests at SAE party.

“Upset” made recent appointments. Personalities were not involved in the question, just procedure.” It is college policy that the administration should consult at least with the executive committee of the faculty concerning major administrative appointments. According to sources, however, the administration has not done so in regard to its recent appointments.

“There have been four appointments made in the past term without consulting the official instrument of the faculty, the executive committee,” a faculty source said. “The faculty was not consulted formally at all, and we haven't even discovered anyone that was consulted informally.”

Assumedly, the four major appointments referred to are those of Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt as Vice President in charge of instructional development, Richard C. Burts as Registrar, William H. Terry as Dean of Students, and C. David Cornell as Vice President in charge of finances. The meeting, according to the faculty source, was well attended by the faculty, and “there was a good deal of ventilation of thoughts.” Several faculty members requested action “deploring” the administration’s appointment procedure, while a few others felt that Spencer should be “censured” for failing to consult the faculty.