® LIBRARY SITE ANNOUNCED

LOCATION OF LITTLE GRANT

Map shows location of Fox Theatre with rest of land. College Gets Rights To Fox. First Run Opens In March

The land donated to Davidson last year by benefactor E. H. Little now includes the property maintained and used by
the Fox Drive-In. It was revealed in a preliminary news conference prior to next week's trustee meeting.

® According to Trustee President Walter L. Lingle, the management of the Fox has been holding the land on a
ten-year lease. Lingle said the lease is due to expire this March. It was decided at the trustee meeting to
accept the report of a special subcommittee which has been studying the matter and which recommended that the college maintain
the drive-in under its own auspices. The plan of the group was to continue the operation of the drive-in exactly
as it has been in the past. However, all profit from the Fox would go to a special Davidson fund
to allow the college to maintain its tax-exempt status. This building, Lingle announced, would be used solely to facilitate the
college becoming coed two years earlier than had been previously anticipated.

It was also announced that students would be admitted on their ID cards. Date ticket receipts may be purchased in
advance for $1.50 in the Dean of Students office. Admission to the show will be by presentation of the student's
ID and a date ticket receipt at the gate between 3:30 and 6 p.m.

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. has already received complaints from several students who said that the present ticket
buying plan would cause undue hardship. Burts said, however, that the present situation is based on a plan submitted to
him by former SGA President Pete Hobbie. Hobbie said that he could not understand the cause for students' complaints. He
said, "This plan was carefully worked out in a special committee headed by my brother."

The first show to be presented by the college at the Fox will open on March 1, the day after
the end of the Southern Conference Tournament.

Judges Censure Paper

"This paper hurts," was the summary of the judges' comments in the college newspaper competition for the fall term. In
assigning THE DAVIDSONIAN an Honor Rating marked down, the judges noted that the paper has failed to win an All-American
rating for the first time in 16 terms. The paper piled up only 254 points out of a possible 1,000,
with virtually every category but photography being criticized. The photography rating was the best.

"We just never seemed to peak," said Editor-in-Chief Bob Dunham. "We weren't working like a team. We missed last year's
peak," he pointed out, noting that the paper had lost more talented seniors than expected. He pointed to a talented
group of sophomore reporters, however, and said, "Wait until next year. We'll be back."

PATTERNS OF WINTER

In the above picture, try to find a horse, a chicken, a prince, a cowboy, a mink coat, a goose,
a boot, an honors college, and Jerry Mathers as the Beaver. (Staff Photo by Davidson)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mrs. Nicholls Replaced

COLLEGE FRIDAY, JANUARY 30, 1970

Communal Hall Planned

In an effort to provide up-to-date concepts in student housing, the college has hired Marvin Sparrow as the new Director
of Housing, replacing former director Mrs. Peter Nicholls. Sparrow will assume his position in early March. Mrs. Nicholls is leaving
Davidson to become Assistant Dean of Women at Smith College.

The appointment of Sparrow marks a departure from established dormitory housing concepts, long held as part of the Davidson tradition.
He has worked during the last two years as the director of the Experiment for Communal Living in Charlotte, heralded
by a number of Charlotte officials as one of the Queen City's outstanding recent accomplishments. Before he left Davidson in
1967, Sparrow served as a hall counselor. He said yesterday that the experience would be valuable in determining proper courses
of development for the student housing program. He also announced a few of the ideas which he hopes to present
to the Board of Trustees for approval in their spring meeting.

"I understand that Duke Dormitory is going to be removed and replaced by a parking lot," he said. "I look
to this as only a beginning."

"I hope that we can tear down the present dormitories and replace them with one large communal living hall," Sparrow
suggested. He said that the hall could be constructed at a relatively low cost. Always a champion of the rights
of minority groups, he indicated that he would support the hiring of the United Tin Workers to do the construction.
"We would be able to cut student room fees in half this way," Sparrow said, "and that would partially make
it easier for poor students to attend."

Student Body President Ran Coble cheered the communal hall concept as a great idea, noting that it would alleviate the
"sophomore slump," which he had hoped to cure during his administration. Sparrow also announced plans to eliminate the high food
costs for students. Under the communal plan, each student would aid in the preparation and serving of meals, thus cutting
costs considerably.

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced that he was "extremely pleased" to have "someone of Sparrow's stature on the staff."
"We hate to lose Mrs. Nicholls," Spencer said, "and we are extremely fortunate to have an alumnus available to take
her position so soon."

Parking Lot To Replace Duke Dorm, Residents Fear Loss Of Grand Hotel

In response to mounting student discontent over the parking situation on campus, Business Manager Robert Currie has announced that a
new parking lot has been approved for the campus. The lot will be constructed on the land presently occupied by
Duke Dormitory. The dorm will be leveled soon so that the serious parking problem might be alleviated.

Initial response from residents of Cannon and East dorms has been extremely favorable, Currie said. Those students had been upset
by Currie's original proposal to have them park behind the gym, a quarter-mile away from housing. Students in Duke and
other dormitories, however, have been extremely pessimistic and skeptical about the plans.

"Duke is just like a stately hotel," said one resident. "To tear it down would be insane." Most of his
fellow residents noted that the new parking lot would leave them homeless and expressed great dissatisfaction.

"Priorities are priorities," Currie said in response to these charges. "We are trying to please all students, and the parking
problem seemed to be the major problem."and said that plan did little to solve their parking problems. One Watts freshman
said, “I wish Mr. Currie had his car across Main Street for just one night. Then he would understand why
we don't like to park there.” He referred to the numerous thefts which take place in the unguarded lot. He
indicated that he lost a stereo tape deck, even when it was parked in a protected campus lot. “When campus
police can’t even protect the cars on campus, what will happen when we park in the lot across Main Street?”
he said. Currie acknowledged the problems but said, “Priorities are priorities.” Currie said that the funds for the new lot
would be a minor appropriation. He had already conferred with Marvin Sparrow, the director of housing, who will use his
cooperation as part of the construction plan.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON, N. C.

LEFTY DRIESELL TO RETURN
NUMBER FOURTEEN

Where It’s At

Friday
Tead and The Sensuals
Love Auditorium @ 8 p.m.
Chambers basement
Morrison Room
“Godzilla Eats Tokyo” with Dean's Office

Saturday
2 p.m. Basketball Davidson vs UCLA
5-6:30 p.m. Supper
8 p.m. Concert Perry Como
10 p.m. Dance Ordway
Midnight Movie “Godzilla Eats Tokyo Again”
2:30 a.m. Breakfast
8 p.m. Concert The Four Tops
10 p.m. Comedy Show Ed Sullivan & Topo Gigio
Midnight Movie “Godzilla Eats Tokyo Again”
2 a.m. Orgy
5 a.m. Breakfast
Lecture Dr. W. P. Johnston Gym
Belk Lobby Auditorium
SLAF et Love Freshmen Dean's Office
Private Dining Room Hodson Hall
Minter Cafeteria

Luck, Donations Hurry Project

(Editor’s Note: Since there has been virtually no progress on the radio station since last year, THE DAVIDSONIAN is reprinting
the following article from the issue of Jan. 10, 1969.)

Within a month, perhaps, Davidson will have its own campus radio station, WDAV-AM. By then, the generosity of an alumnus
and the work of sophomore Ed Dobbs will have combined to make the project a reality. Dobbs said Wednesday that
the only thing holding up the station is receiving a construction permit from the Federal Communications Commission, and this could
take a short or long time. “It will be a matter of luck as to when the FCC handles my
application,” said Dobbs.

The mobile radio unit that students may have seen parked near the College Union was donated by Davidson graduate John
Trask. Trask runs radio station WBEU at Beaufort, S.C. The truck will be stripped of its equipment, including its transmitter,
Dobbs said. “We have an offer to buy the truck, which we hope to sell for $1,000.” This, along with
a Union grant of another $1,000, will give the radio station adequate starting capital.

“Next week a form will be passed out in assembly for students to give their preferences for station programs. The
poll will determine to a great extent what type of programs we will have,” Dobbs said. He then added that
programs will be educational, but nothing like “Deutsch in five easy lessons.” “One interesting program we'll have will be ‘Night
(See RADIO, Page 4)”

Midwinters Curfew Set

After all kinds of changes excited the students waiting to be made around campus, yesterday Dean of Students Burts declared
a midnight curfew to be in effect for this Midwinters weekend. Reaction to the curfew came from a number of
circles, and although most of the court received the news calmly, there were scattered reports of incidents from at least
12 of the fraternities Thursday night.

Dan Herd, the President of the Fraternity Court (PFC), responded immediately and unequivocally to the crisis at hand. Says PFC
Herd, “I haven't heard a word.” Meanwhile, the campus police force patrols the area in its car in a clockwise
direction at three-minute intervals while waiting for the curfew to go into effect.

When asked if this restriction was part of an organized administrative attack on the fraternity system, Burts brusquely blurted, “My
hands are tied.” Burts went on to say that he felt such rules were a vital part of the official
“in loco parentis” policy of the college. He added that this rule will, in his opinion, be very popular with
the girls on campus. Otherwise, he said, they would probably worry about what to do at a fraternity house when
no one else was around to make conversation with them and their date.

When contacted about this ruling, President of the College Dr. Samuel Spencer Jr. said that he did not consider the
requirement to be particularly onerous or nefarious. Davidson plans to...
