(Staff photo by Davidson)

HONORING THE QUEEN
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. presents flowers to 1970 Homecoming Queen Cathy Scoggins. At right is her escort Dick Allison.

4 Sailors To Meet Clemson; Finish Fourth At Citadel
By JOE EARLE
Sports Writer

The Davidson sailing team placed fourth out of seven entrants in an invitational regatta hosted by The Citadel in Charleston,
S.C. on Oct. 17. Allen Lundy and Daryl Douglas in the first division and Mark Leonard and Jimmy Hunter in
the second division came back after rough starts to beat out Duke, Clemson, and University of Tennessee teams. They placed
behind The Citadel, University of South Carolina, and The College of Charleston entrants.

Lundy, commodore of the first division boat, said the team lost a lot of ground during the first heats because
of lack of knowledge of the winds and currents. Lundy explained that the majority of the team members had received
all their sailing experience on inland bodies of water. The regatta was held in the Ashley River and the team
had to acclimate themselves to tidal and current conditions. Tomorrow the team will race Clemson University on Hartwell Lake. Commenting
on this race, Lundy said Clemson will have both a home advantage and a second advantage in that they are
the only team that races the type of boat, a "420," that will be used in the meet. The Citadel
uses a "Jet 4," the same boat used by the Davidson team at home. When a meet is held at
a school, that school supplies all the boats for the entrants.

Lundy said he felt Davidson was one of the top three contenders for the regional crown among the ten schools
in the conference. He felt only The Citadel and the University of South Carolina could offer stiff resistance to the
Wildcats. "Citadel has traditionally been the top power in the conference because they can spend more time in practice and
they have an outstanding coach," he said, "but they are losing their place this year because they don't have any
superstar sailors."

Ex-'Cat Prospect Downs Runners
By ERNIE SHIPE
Sports Editor

It was too bad Jim Boyd didn't get into Davidson. Boyd, who was put on the waiting list here last
spring, led The Citadel past VMI, Washington and Lee, and Davidson in a cross country meet here on Oct. 20.
Tuesday the Wildcat harriers host Pembroke, Wake Forest, and Appalachian State. Boyd came within eight seconds of breaking the course
record of 27:02. Coach Sterling Martin was amazed that the time was so good considering the rainy conditions. Boyd's older
brother, Howard, was the top finisher for the Wildcats. Boyd ran the five-mile course in 29:23 for 14th place. The
Citadel easily won the meet as the first four places were all by them.

Coach Martin was pleased with the 'Cats performance but was disappointed that the team didn't finish ahead of Washington and
Lee. "Our fifth man is still our weak position," Martin said. "Don Butts is the most improved runner we have
and has developed into a solid third man." Martin also explained that Howard Boyd ran his best race of the
season although he had a better time at the Stone Mountain meet. The harriers picked up their first win of
the season last Friday, defeating St. Andrews, 19-43. It was a double-duel meet and the Wildcats dropped the other half,
17-41, to Campbell College. Boyd paced the 'Cats as fourth with a 29:43. Don Butts finished eighth for Davidson. Joe
Shibley, Ran Coble, Ron Clark, and David Reid took 10th through 13th for the Wildcats.

Yesterday the cross-country team traveled to High Point College for a dual meet.beat any team in the league,’ he went
on, ‘because we did it last Saturday. There were 14 heats and we beat every team at least once.’ The
regional championships will be held at Davidson this year. Professor Hallam Walker is the team's coach.

The Davidsonian
October 23, 1970
Page Seven

Wildcats To Meet Wofford Terriers
By HAL CANTER
Sports Writer

The Davidson football team will take on Wofford College in Spartanburg, S.C. at 8 p.m. this Saturday. Head Davidson Football
Coach Dave Fagg said Wofford was the second best small college in the country. Fagg said Wofford has a tremendous
offensive football team. The Wofford team has won 16 straight games. Head Wofford Football Coach Jim Brakefield said that the
strong point of his team has been their running. He thinks that this team has a good attack on the
ground. Wofford will be using a triple option with the Y formation that Davidson used earlier this year. The Terriers
have been averaging about 300 yards per game.

Leading the Wofford offense will be Clifford Boyd at fullback who has scored nine touchdowns so far and Bob Jordan
at halfback who has scored seven. Quarterback Harold Chandler has been throwing well for Wofford this year and has completed
55 per cent of his passes. Chandler will be throwing especially to Skip Corn who is Wofford's top receiver. Fagg
ranks Corn very high and mentioned that he was a key factor in Davidson's defeat by Wofford last year.

Wofford will be using a five-four umbrella defense. Brakefield said he was thinking about Davidson's passing but he also said
that the Wildcats can run although they have not used their running extensively so far. Wofford has three strong linebackers
in Keith Dyer, Ronny Wilson, and Jim Johnson. Brakefield said, “Davidson is much better than the records show.” He added
that Davidson should have beaten Furman University last week. Davidson will be a great challenge to Wofford he feels. “We've
got to beat Davidson,” said Brakefield. “Davidson is the toughest team on our schedule.”

Fagg said that the Wildcats will be in the best physical condition that they have been in yet. Fagg said
that in this upcoming game the Davidson team will do what they do best and do it better. Fagg added
that to win the game Davidson must get on the scoreboard early, produce a better kicking game, and make the
big plays count.

IMAC Action Ends Today

IMAC flickerball play ends today with several spots in the tournament still up for grabs. Seven teams from each division
will be involved in the tournament which opens on Oct. 28 and runs through Nov. 5. Prior to the tourney,
the two all-star teams meet and on Nov. 11 the all-stars will face the tournament champion.

In Division A, Watts-Belk, East I, and Cannon I fought for one tournament spot in games yesterday. Two of four
teams in Division B, Cannon II, the Pi Kapps, East II, and the Sigma Nus, will battle for two positions
in the play-offs in games today. The Kappa Sigs and Sig Eps, both 9-1, are assured of a tie for
the Division B title. The Pikas, 8-1, met East I yesterday, and a win for them would mean a three-way
tie. The SAE’s have a chance to tie the Delts for the Division A championship with a win over the
ATO’s today.

OPEN 9-8
The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — La — Parmigiana — Salads
STEAK
La Roma Ristoranti
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
