Vol. LX, No. Four Published Weekly By Davidson College Students October 9, 1970

BURTS ANGERED
Burts Castigates 'Unethical' Story
By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. Tuesday let fly verbal brickbats at THE DAVIDSONIAN for what he called "unethical journalism." Burts was angered by the disclosure of the Student Life Committee (SLC) recommendations on enforcement of drug rules on Page One of last week’s DAVIDSONIAN. The story was subsequently picked up by The Charlotte News, The Charlotte Observer, and the Associated Press.

"The report was meant for President Spencer," Burts said, "not for THE DAVIDSONIAN. I regret very much that THE DAVIDSONIAN got it from an unnamed source." Burts is chairman of the SLC. Associate Editor John McLean, who wrote the original story, said he "would not indicate the 'unnamed source' unless ordered to by newsroom personnel." (See BURTS, Page Two)

'If They Want To Stay'
By JOHN McLEAN
Associate Editor

Director of Student Housing Mrs. Scotty Nicholls announced Thursday that students will not be moved out of Belk and Richardson dorms to make way for homecoming dates. Residence Hall Council president Cecil Burney said all dorms would be open on regular hours throughout homecoming weekend. Acting in response to a petition circulated by sophomore David Mims, candidate for student senate and RHC from East Belk, Mrs. Nicholls said she would proceed with plans to house dates in the town and elsewhere on campus. Mims’ petition circulated according to Charlotte News personnel.

Friday Board To Consider Bylaws
By DON PARMAN
Managing Editor

Just what the Davidson College Board of Trustees will do next weekend at their fall meeting is uncertain, but revision of the composition of the board itself is expected. College president Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said that he anticipates two major topics at the forthcoming session, revision of the bylaws and a review of the social system at Davidson.

The proposal for a revision to the bylaws has been prepared for presentation to the trustee Executive Committee by a special committee chaired by former trustee chairman Walter L. Lingle. The recommendation, which will be presented to the board through the Executive Committee, calls for a reduction in size of the board from its present 51 members to 42. 26 of the members would still be elected by the respective North Carolina presbyteries with the remaining 16 elected by the trustees and the alumni association.

Spencer interpreted the major thrust of the proposed revision as an attempt to broaden the constituency of the board, now limited to North Carolina Presbyterians and alumni. The key change would be the election of at-large trustees by the trustees themselves. Spencer indicated that there would seem to be a substantial disposition among the trustees to include some recent graduates among the group of those elected at-large.

Spencer said that there were several different proposals brought before the special committee dealing with the problem of representation on the board by recent graduates. He added that the elective process was selected because the trustees did not want to be committed to any person in a particular position in student affairs.

"The second major area of concern for the trustees is expected to be the Davidson social system. Spencer said that he would take a recommendation to the Campus and Social Life Committee concerning the social situation on campus, and that he presumed that the committee would act on it. Spencer added that he does expect the trustees to involve themselves in the principles of the situation and feels the trustees will have mixed feelings on the fraternity issue.

The Campus and Social Life Committee is responsible for reporting to the board on both the social patterns and the Code of Responsibility. Since the committee must handle both of these issues, Spencer expressed doubt that a committee proposal concerning the Code will be made to the board. He said that he expects the Code to be discussed by the committee, but warned that the time necessary to discuss the social issue may preclude sufficient treatment of the issues involved in the discussion of the Code.

Peterson Named To Liaison Post
By DOUG BROWN
Staff Writer

Allen Peterson, senior class president, has been appointed student liaison to the financial aid office. In his new capacity, Peterson will work closely with H. Edmunds White, Director.

Festivities Feature Rogers
Ken Rogers and The First Edition will headline entertainment schedules for homecoming.coming weekend Oct. 16 and 17. Homecoming activities next night begin with “Mark Twain Tonight” featuring John Chappell. Chappell’s imitation of Mark Twain is derived from the Mark Twain act of actor Hal Holbrook, who trained Chappell to replace him. Also on Friday night, “The Sterile Cuckoo,” starring Liza Minelli, will be shown in the Morrison Room at 10:15 p.m. Noted card trick specialist Bill Spooner will be at the Union Bar on Friday night as well. “Mara Loves” is scheduled to perform at 1:30 a.m. Saturday morning in the Union, or perhaps outdoors if weather permits. 

On Saturday afternoon before the game, a barbeque picnic will be held on the grass in front of the Union. The Homecoming Game at 2:00 p.m. Saturday pits Davidson’s Wildcats against the Paladins of Furman. The game will be preceded by a skydiving exhibition on the football field, weather permitting, according to College Union director C. Shaw Smith.

Dates Not To Be Housed In Belk Or Richardson

Tuesday afternoon, collected some 250 signatures from Belk and Richardson residents in about 14 hours’ time. According to Mrs. Nicholls, enough places can be found in town for homecoming dates to be housed. The housing office will publish a list of approved housing in town, and students would be on their own to find places for their dates from this list of homes made available by townspeople. “Putting girls in the dorms is done as a convenience for students,” she said, “and if they don’t want to do it anymore, we will find some other arrangement.”

Burney had conferred with college officials on the date housing problem before petitions were circulated and presented. He said a memo from Mrs. Nicholls to college officials Monday revealed the college was losing money on weekend housing dates since “a couple of hundred beds” in the two dorms have gone unoccupied during recent “big weekends.” Burney said he hoped the current debate over housing would lead to a reevaluation committee.

After the Homecoming Game, head football coach David J. Fagg will hold a reception for friends, students, and alumni in the Union. Ken Rogers and the First Edition will perform in concert in Love Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. “The Sterile Cuckoo” will be shown again in the Morrison Room at 10:15 p.m. Saturday night. Steve Baron, back by popular demand, will perform for an early breakfast at 3:30 a.m. Sunday morning.

Poetess Diane Wakowski of the North Carolina Poet Series will also be on campus for the whole weekend.

Burney indicated he would try to have a decision on continuing “big weekends” made by the college finance committee, which is this week planning the student social budget. Mims agreed with Burney that money spent on “big weekends” could be better spent in another way. He said the side attractions should be dropped and their funds spent in securing big-name groups. “They’re wasting all their money on this rinky-dink stuff,” he said.

College physician Davis says Dean Burt’s policy on student medical records hinders his effectiveness in treating drug users, as reported on Page 6. Sports Editor Ernie Shipe starts a four-part series on the trustee’s new policy for athletics on Page 8.

Dick Anderson ...................... 4
Joe Smith ............................ 5
Sports ................................. 8, 9