Page Four May 15, 1970 The Davidsonian (Photo by Bill Powell)

NIXON'S HOME FRONT
Thousands bring protest to the White House.

Lectures Discuss Christ In Southern Literature
By BILL ESKRIDGE
Staff Writer

The Philanthropic Literary Society presented a symposium on "The Christ-Haunted South" last Monday and Tuesday which dealt with the influence of Christianity on Southern Literature. The speakers on Monday were Chalmers G. Davidson, professor of history; Daniel D. Rhodes, professor of religion; and Walter Sullivan, professor of English at Vanderbilt University.

Davidson opened the symposium with an establishment of the historical background of the aristocratic South’s dedication to religion. “The two facts which best explain this dedication to the Trinity in the South are the inherent truth of Christianity and the unflagging loyalty among common Southerners.”

Next, Rhodes presented a more detailed study of the religious history of the South. While the North lived in confidence, the South lived in pride which was defeated, he said. “The South truly experienced the tragedy of defeat, and the accompanying humiliation.”

The final address of the evening was presented by Sullivan and was entitled “Death by Melancholy.” The historical context of Sullivan's papers was the period directly following World War II in which the Southern Renaissance of the '30s ended rather abruptly. His general thesis was, “The artist reflects the society in which he performs his art.” Sullivan’s approach is to the new secularism following World War II and the vacuum it left in the world of letters. He concluded that the writer must now develop in his own soul what used to be inherent in society. He must reclaim the religious zeal. The divine reality must be restored to the artist for the art to survive."

The two speakers for Tuesday night were Lewis Simpson, the editor of the “Southern Review,” and George Core, Davidson professor and director of the University of Georgia Press. “The backward Renaissance, in which Southern literature re-entered the modern world and the secessionist movement,” he said, “is the sense of now.”

Honors College Lists 20

The faculty of the Honors College has accepted 20 students for admission to the Honors College next year. They are juniors Rich Cowart, Mike Elliott, Garth Miller, Tom Opie and Jimmy Trussell. Also, sophomores Lanny Ackiss, Bill Beckmann, Danny Clodfelter, Paul McKenney, John McLean, Don Parman, Bernard Scoggins, Rick Van de Water, and Fred Wilson. Freshmen Bob Edmunds, Tom Giesecke, Peter Graham, Bill Howland, Carl Patterson and Gray Wilson were also named.

The Honors College will begin operation in the fall of next year. Graduation and major requirements, as well as all other course requirements, are suspended for those studying in the program. Instead, each student is expected to contract a course of study with the Honors College faculty. His progress is evaluated as “Honors,” “Pass” or “Fail.”

The faculty of the Honors College are Dean of the College Thomas W. Johnston (history), Frank W. Bliss (English), Earl MacCormac (philosophy), Robert L. Avinger (economics), Locke White Jr. (physics) and J. G. Martin (chemistry).

Associate Editors:
RUSS MERRITT
STEVE ROADY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH
TOM VERNON

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
JOHN McLEAN

Sports Editor:
DON PARMAN

News Editor:
SCOTT DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Assistant Sports Editors:
ERNIE SHIPE
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Photographers:
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS

Staff Writers:
Jeff Allender, Bill Beckman, Bill Davenport, Bill Eskridge, John Fine, Dan Graham, Rick Hart, Don Hoyt, George Kaneklides and Tom Sinks.

Sports Writers:
Howard Boyd, Rick Bush, Billy Cobb, Dick Downey and Charlie Terrell.

Thousands Gather In Name Of Peace
A REACTION
By BILL POWELL and SID MOODY

After some four days of active protest at Davidson against the expansion of the Southeast Asian war and the tragedy at Kent State, several of us headed toward the nation's capital to participate in a massive anti-war rally. Full of possibly the most radical spirit Davidson has ever seen, five of us aimed towards Washington in order to express our feelings about peace and Kent State.

However, our expectations for the protest rally failed to be realized. We were all veterans of the November Moratorium and felt that the sincerity of that rally seemed to be lacking last weekend. We were both impressed by the large crowd estimated at between 60,000 and 100,000 which assembled on such short notice. Yet, at the same time, the frivolity of the crowd, as evident by the frolicking in the reflection pool and by the “grooving out” on the rock bands, made us doubt that everyone was there solely for the peace protest. Some, perhaps even a majority, were there just because it was the “in” thing to do. And so they came with their bells; the boys bare-chested, the liberated women braless (and sometimes bare-chested), all in a generally rebellious mood.

The speeches we heard Friday night and Saturday were repetitious and often meaningless. Most of the speakers emphasized revolution more than peace. We grew tired of a rhetoric which was dominated by “right on,” “power to the people,” etc. We do feel the need for an ethical revolution in the United States, but we believe that violent revolution would only lead to anarchy. Too many who chanted for revolution had not thought thoroughly about revolution and its consequences. Fortunately, the many threats of the revolutionaries about violence did not materialize.

We were favorably impressed though by the manner in which the D.C. police conducted themselves. With the aid of the New Mobe and its marshals, the police were able to avoid the major confrontation with the crowd. The police brutality so heralded in today’s headlines was not evident to us last weekend. We do not, however, deny the existence of such brutality in other cases. When violence did come to the surface, the New Mobe marshals were there first to attempt to head it off.

We returned to Davidson last Sunday with our radical spirit dampened. Currently we are turned off (to use an expression) by the hippie culture. But the protest last weekend did have its good points. Just to see thousands of people gathered in the name of peace is an exhilarating experience. It is too bad that the peace movement has become synonymous with other factions which blur and weaken its original purpose.

Course Evaluation To Fill 400 Pages Next September
By STEVE ROADY
Associate Editor

Work is now underway on a comprehensive, 400-page Student Course Evaluation Booklet which will be published by the opening of school in the fall. Walter Sprunt, chairman of the Student Course Evaluation Committee, states that the booklet will serve a twofold purpose. First, it will assist next year's students in selecting their courses. Second, it will provide the faculty and administration with constructive feedback. Sprunt emphasized that the booklet will in the main present things the way students think they are and that those using the booklet should realize the necessarily subjective nature of the feedback.Chairman ministration with constructive judgements. ‘Oh What a Lovely War’ will contain a three-part evaluation of each course offered at Davidson. The first part of each evaluation will consist of statistics compiled from questionnaires completed by students who have taken the course. The second part will be made up of the particular professor's comments on his review policy, etc., and the nature of the course as he (or she) sees it. The third section will be a written evaluation of the course representing as much of a consensus as is possible about the course among the majors in the department under which the course falls.

Infirmary Procedures (Continued From Page 1)
The program advises that student records should not leave the infirmary at all. That information on those records, the booklet added, should not be available to anyone other than infirmary personnel except where the student gives written permission otherwise. Dean Burts observes in reply that the booklet states that “local conditions must be taken into account” when applying Association guidelines. He maintains that the Davidson “close-knit” philosophy is such a condition, and that its application makes the Association’s guideline for infirmary records inappropriate. After perusing the relevant portions of the American College Health Association booklet, this reporter concluded that there is room for some question on the issue of whether the Association meant “local conditions” to be taken so heavily into account. According to Dean Burts, the Student Life Committee discussed the distribution of infirmary records and decided to let the professional college staff settle the matter. Dr. Davis and the Dean have discussed the matter several times and an agreement will probably be reached soon.

Fraternity Problem Lingers (Continued From Page One)
As alternatives, the social systems of Princeton and Wake Forest serve as good examples of what can be done. Princeton once had fraternities, but many years ago abolished them through popular referendum. To fill the social void, the school made available both a stronger social calendar and eating clubs, operated on a non-selective basis and open to anyone and any number of interested students. For those students not wanting to be tied down by a club, the university’s administration made funds available for a very attractive campus student union. Wake Forest is probably the closest to the Davidson situation. Wake still has fraternities, but has countered much of their attraction with an equally attractive residence hall association program. At Wake, where frats are residential, those who choose not to join a fraternity are able to participate in a very active residence hall program which supplies its members with a full social life, athletic competition, dating facilities, and all other benefits which fraternities offer. Thus, the fraternity system at Wake is not all-encompassing socially as it is at Davidson, but rather is often outdone by independent dorm residents.

In conclusion, three points deserve to be reiterated. First, the fraternity system as it presently exists at Davidson needs drastically to be changed, both because it is a bad system and because it is dying and its demise will leave Davidson with no social system whatsoever. Second, the new social system, whether it be a more relevant and worthwhile fraternity system, a more acceptable counter to the present fraternity system through a stronger residence hall association and student union, or a totally new social institution, must include all the student body, and must give meaning to the social endeavors of the entire Davidson community. Third, an immediate change in Davidson’s social system, presently based on fraternities, is necessary.

OPEN 9-8 The Hub MONDAY - SATURDAY FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead PIZZA

WESTERN AUTO Main St. Davidson, N. C. Phone 892-1496

EUROPE $239.00 June 12-Sept 8 NYC/Amst/NYC VERY FEW SEATS Remaining for information Call 919-933-5271 or write: Betty Saunders 408 Connors Chapel Hill, N. C.

Summer Fun Slacks Bermudas Swim Shorts Knit Shirts by Jantzen, Izod, Van Heusen, Haggar, Farah, and other Campus Favorites. Come See The New Clothing And Accessories And Browse. Clothes For The Campus Pace Setter John Mack & Son Mooresville

Up ’n’ Coming
Friday, May 15
7:30 p.m. Union Coffee House: The Hubbels
8:03 p.m. Film: Morrison Room “Oh, What a Lovely War”

Saturday, May 16
7:30 p.m. Union Coffee House: The Hubbels
8:03 p.m. Film: Morrison Room “Oh, What a Lovely War”

Sunday, May 17
4 p.m. Wind Ensemble Concert

Monday, May 18
8 p.m. ‘Free Laughs” Morrison Room C. Fields, Chaplin, etc.
9:30 p.m. Open Discussion on Kent State Dr. Taylor, Dr. Lewis of Kent State University

Tuesday, May 19
2 p.m. Film: “Vietnam Dialogue”
7:30 p.m. South Asia Program: Dr. Quentin Lindsey
8:03 p.m. Film: Morrison Room “Daddy's Gone A Hunting”

Wednesday, May 20
8:03 p.m. Film: Morrison Room “Daddy’s Gone A Hunting”

Thursday, May 21
1 p.m. Indochina Discussion Morrison Room
8 p.m. ‘Free Laughs” Morrison Room W. C. Fields, Chaplin, etc.

Saturday, May 23
9 a.m. Area IV Examination Chambers
2 p.m. Area I Examination Chambers

Sunday, May 24
8 p.m. Opening of Student Art Show
8:03 p.m. Film: Morrison Room “Daddy’s Gone A Hunting”

From a spectator’s viewpoint, baseball is often only a glance of anticipation, but when that magic moment occurs—a scoreless game broken open, a line shot over the center field fence, a throw out at the plate—the hours of anticipation are forgotten. Having just seen “Oh, What a Lovely War,” an antiwar comment on the people and events of World War I, I have that same feeling. In transplanting Joan Littlewood’s stage version to the screen, Director Richard Attenborough has retained some of the bite, humor, and social comment of the original, but has lost the sense of ingenuity that distinguished it. He has moved the locale to a pier along the beach at Brighton. The activities here serve as a gigantic metaphor of the war. The credits read like the blue book of the British acting profession. Only a few of the stars truly sparkle. As Sir Douglas Haig, John Mills is uniformly competent, and Vanessa Redgrave summons a cool ardency as a woman's pacifist leader. Watch for Maggie Smith. Her uproarious ten-minute stint as a hall high point of music singer is the film’s greatest asset. Despite the gross over-orchestrations, the movie's greatest asset is the World War I music, all vintage stuff. “Oh, What a Lovely War” is devoted to the sumptuous massacre of World War I as well as the unswerving determination of the soldiers. Finally, one cannot avoid drawing parallels to our anti-war sentiment today. One sees the senseless massacre of World War I as a metaphor for the futility of all wars.