| The Davideonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
OCTOBER 30, 1970

Almost Losers

When the trustees acted to change the Davidson social system three weeks ago, they acted, or so all their statements indicated, in a positive sense. Official rhetoric since that time has also had this concern with meaningful changes and opportunities for new forms of social affiliation. Unfortunately, in spite of all this concern and rhetoric, the real losers in the transition during the very immediate future might have been the freshmen, supposedly the beneficiaries of the changes, were it not for a few recent changes made almost in concession to them.

Two factors in immediate developments were combining against the interests of the freshmen. First, the composition of the committee to effect the changes did not include any representatives of the freshman class. The freshmen should be represented on this group because the change will most affect them. They should be represented as the only group never to experience life under the old system. And finally, they should be represented because it is time this college learned to work in its decision-making with free exchange between all responsible parties to the decision and with all parties in open and immediate contact. It had been argued that to pick freshmen as freshmen for the committee would be to give them undue status as a separate group in the college, but their special interests demand that they be represented without academic distinctions as to their proper position on campus. The day of keeping the student in his place has passed. It had also been argued that the freshmen can make their wishes adequately heard by speaking to any official member of the committee outside of official meetings. Unfortunately, that is an administration ploy with which anyone who was a member of the student senate last spring is all too familiar. Excluding any involved party from deliberations concerning their situation precludes the fairness of those deliberations. Fortunately, the oversight has been corrected and hopefully with it the spirit which led to the mistake.

Yet of equal danger to the freshmen were the plans to involve them in rush, bidding, and initiation before the final social changes were instituted. This problem too may have been resolved in the discussions of the week with the plans by the fraternities to hold open house but no rush until the final nature of impending changes is made clear. Until these changes are clear, the freshmen would be well advised to eschew any fraternity plans to involve them in commitments with an uncertain future.

With the many problems ahead in these areas, it is vital for both sides to maintain their sense of perspective toward these issues. For if viewed from the proper distance, these coming changes can be accomplished without rancor or serious discord. The problems involved should be settled without serious bitterness being aroused in anyone. They are not worth that price.

Notes Without Comment

In a situation not unusual to journalists of any stripe, your editors found themselves late Tuesday night with space to fill and nothing to fill it with. Realizing that most editorial writing is half air, we decided that some things really need no comment. A quick survey of a prominent local newspaper yielded the following gems:

In the effort to fight air pollution, the federal government has decided that all official vehicles should begin to use low or nonleaded gasoline immediately. Among the exceptions—the President’s own high-powered limousine.

Brigadier General Forrester is to lose his newly “won” Silver Star since it seems that reports of his heroism were greatly fabricated. Says the Army—everything’s fine, the general was unaware of the discrepancy.

In the continuing fight for law and order, it now seems that no less than nine of the 16 persons on the FBI's ten-most-wanted list are alleged college radicals under the age of 28.

And finally, Vice President Strom Thurmond is the greatest man since the days of Robert E. Lee. That just goes to show, “Give them enough rope and....”

JOE SMITH

Pessimism And Pollyanna Have Brought Us Together

It seems that the course of events in this country has done what Richard Nixon has not been able to do: it has brought us together. “Gloom and doom” pervade our political discourse like a malevolent spirit, unseen yet strongly felt. Pessimism, if not cynicism, can be found on both Left and Right, among students and hardhats, Middle and Other America. How nice to be able to have the dark picture painted by a member of the group with which one is most comfortable! Yessir, for one reason or another, the country is going to hell. Right? Wrong. Things aren't perfect here by any stretch of the imagination, but I wonder if the much-bemoaned approach of the End of Time is as imminent as some would have us believe.

Before I am nominated for this year’s Pollyanna Award, I ask that the Committee consider one hard question: Could our problems be the result of...faculty perception as well as “real” inequities, injustices, etc.? If one looks at the slogans which have capsulized the goals of our government over the last forty years, we have made ourselves some hefty promises. Never satisfied with the status quo (admittedly, satisfaction was a hard thing to come by in the Depression), we have continually promised ourselves a better world. Through the New Deal, Fair Deal, New Frontier, and Great Society, we not only admitted our shortcomings but hinted at their eradication. We didn’t just deplore the existence of hunger, illiteracy, and poverty, we vowed to wage war on them. Few would deny that these were, and are, noble goals. Yet, for all our grand designs, Utopia has somehow eluded us. The legacy of this failure is the situation which confronts us at present. It is natural that a populace which has been conditioned to expect both possession and mastication of the proverbial cake will expect nothing less than that. And so, to answer our hard question, it seems very likely that a large part of our troubled situation is the result of an ever-increasing demand for improvement which confronts the powers that be, a demand which cannot be fulfilled. This is not to say that we are incapable of progress. I don’t think there are many around who would rather live in their fathers’ world than their own. Nor am I saying that all is right with the world; one good look around will do in the Pollyanna in anyone. The conclusion to be drawn from our situation is that our rhetoric has exceeded our capacity for its fulfillment. As Edward Banfield has noted, we are faced with a moral escalation which raises our sights with every advance, so that perpetual disenchantment is inherent in our present political worldview. The State has tried to be all things to all men, which, given the conflicts of interest in the country, is impossible. We are looking at the world through myopic political eyes. The leadership which truly brings us together must bring our collective vision into focus.

DICK ANDERSON

Inside Red Chile

Last week Dr. Salvador Allende, a Marxist and admirer of Mao, Che, and Castro, was confirmed as President-Elect of Chile by that country’s national legislature. Although there were rumbling bellies among the United States’ more right-wing elements, neither their champion Spiro nor that soft non-communism the President of the United States has given indication of a willingness to intervene against Allende. More significantly, the Chilean military has reaffirmed its neutrality with regard to political matters.

Allende is of course not himself a member of the Chilean Communist Party although that organization was a part of the front which elected him. And he has repeatedly promised to continue under the Chilean constitutional system which elected him. This acceptance represents the culmination of a long road from the Fifties, when John Foster Dulles would call Soviet people “our natural allies in the struggle against communism.” It also represents our recognition that communism does receive sincere support from at least those peoples on whom it has not been imposed from outside.

Contrast the reaction of the present administration to Allende with the reaction to Mossadegh in Iran or with the overthrow of a merely leftist regime in Guatemala in 1958. These indicate the magnitude of the change. Some of the facts which have apparently at long last been recognized by American government leaders were apparent to me during my two trips to the Soviet Union last year. One of them is the attractiveness of the communist system for the populace of a country with uneven distribution of wealth. In the Soviet Union everybody, with the exception of professors, top bureaucrats, and national entertainers, earns almost the same salary. In any case, no Soviet citizen earns more than ten times what any other citizen earns. This contrasts strangely with South American countries in which peasants average perhaps $50 per year and the elites may draw enough income to support 100,000 peasants at that rate.

A second major factor hides behind the Kremlin palaces, behind Castro's campaign to have everyone involved in sugar cane harvesting, behind industrial Soviets (councils) and sham elections. This factor is the feeling of participation in and ownership of the state. A Soviet citizen may enter the Kremlin and is encouraged to do so; by law it belongs to him, to the nation in which he participates, in the Russian phrase. This vision is remarkably similar to the basic tenet of the formal American dream, the vision of the classless society, where all men are equal because no distinctions can be drawn between them. Americans in the past have been able to accept racism and oppression in American life because these were only accidents on the path to freedom-for-all-men; so do the Russians regard the admitted errors of their own leaders.