# Pere oa) Se a RUNNING WILD (Staff photo by Davidson) John Ribet bursts through Lafayette line.

Leopards Triumph, 53-34
By JOE EARLE
Asst. Sports Editor

“Lafayette had one of the best planned and best executed passing offenses I've ever seen,” said Defensive Coach Evans Brown.
“There is no way to stop a perfect pass game, not even the pros can do that,” he said.

The Lafayette Leopards beat Davidson 53-34 last week at Richardson Field. Passing seemed to be the most important factor in
the game with both teams putting most of their offensive attack into the air. Coach Will Campagna complimented the ‘Cat
offense for their show of power. Both offenses rolled up great amounts of yardage, with the Leopards gaining 544 yards,
350 yards in the air, and the Wildcats taking 485 total yards, 321 in the air.

“We played a fine game,” Campagna said, “but a few mistakes hurt us badly.” Campagna pointed to two fumbles in
the first half and a pass interception that he felt could have changed the course of the game.

Delts Claim Title
By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The Delts scored the first time it handled the ball and went on to overwhelm the SAE’s 46-18 Monday for
the Championship of the IMAC flickerball tournament. The teams had entered the game tied for first place in the overall
standings with 11-1 records, so the Delts’ victory also gave them the league championship.

After halting an SAE drive deep in their own territory, the Delts tallied on their first offensive play, with Jack
Steele on the scoring end of a long flicker play. The E's came right back to pull within 7-6, as
Bob Meadows nailed Roy Campbell with a touchdown strike. After an exchange of punts, the Delts marched for another score,
with Mike Ernst taking it over to make the halftime score 14-6.

The Delts quickly broke it open in the second half, striking for two fast scores to widen the gap to
27-6. After Meadows and Campbell teamed for another touchdown to cut the margin to 27-12, Bob Lewis scored for the
Delts on a flicker and tailback Bick Halligan hit Hamp Whittington for another TD, to put it out of reach
at 40-12. Halligan, Whittington, and center Mark Pandiek were particularly outstanding for the winners, while Meadows, Campbell, and David Weaver
paced the losers’ cause.

In the first quarter, tied 7-7, the Wildcats lost the ball on their own 19, and Lafayette moved ahead 13-7.
Later, leading 21-19, the Wildcats lost a fumble while in scoring position on the 26-yard line. Both quarterbacks passed well
with Mark Thompson hitting 25 for 45 with 4 interceptions. Rich McKay for Lafayette hit 24 of 44 with no
interceptions.

Davidson set a new school record for first downs, making 33. Lafayette rolled up 31 first downs. Brown said he
did not feel that Lafayette was exceptional in their ground attack. He felt that they could not compare with Wofford
or Trinity on the ground, but they had the best passing attack the 'Cats have seen.

The last three minutes of the game were the most active for Lafayette. They scored twice on interceptions and stopped
a Davidson drive just before time ran out with an interception.

The Davidsonian
November 13, 1970
PageSeven By CHARLIE TERRELL Sports Writer

Remember the powerful "M and M" boys who led the New York Yankees to several baseball pennants? Roger Maris and
Mickey Mantle teamed as one of the most productive home run combinations in baseball history. Tomorrow will be on display,
another pair of "M and M" boys. This time, however, they will be on opposing teams as the Wildcats and
ace receiver Mike Mikolayunas host the band of Indians from William and Mary and their powerful running back Phil Mosser.
Kickoff time for the Southern Conference battle is 1:30 p.m. at Richardson Stadium.

On offense, the Indians are paced by Mosser, a transfer from Ferrum Junior College. The workhorse back has rushed for
1067 yards and seven touchdowns on 171 carries. These figures place him ninth among the nation’s runners with an average
of 118.6 yards per game. Against Connecticut, Mosser broke loose for 166 yards on 21 carries, scoring on runs of
26, 37, and 47 yards. Mosser needs 69 yards to eclipse the conference season rushing mark of 1135 yards set
by Butch Colson of East Carolina in 1967.

Davidson's Mikolayunas is the leading pass receiver in the nation, having caught 62 passes for 797 yards and an average
of 8.9 receptions per game. His 16 catches against Lafayette last week have been the single game-high for major colleges
this season.

The Indians enter the contest with a 3-6 overall record and a 1-1 worksheet in the conference. Playing a difficult
schedule, the Indians have lost to West Virginia, Miami (Fla.), Cincinnati, Citadel, Virginia, and Virginia Tech. Victories were gained over
Ohio Wesleyan, VMI, and last week over Connecticut 28-15. In that game, the Indians’ defense intercepted five passes and recovered
two fumbles.

Other offensive standouts for the Tribe are Todd Bushnell, a sophomore halfback who has gained 585 yards in 110 attempts;
sophomore end Dave Knight, their leading receiver with 21 grabs for 281 yards; and QB Steve Regan, a junior who
has played in only four games, completing 23 of 49 passes for 272 yards.

Wildcat Head Coach Dave Fagg described William and Mary as a physically tough and aggressive team. He noted, “Mosser and
Bushnell are fine runners, and we must stop their rushing attack to win. I know they have more throwing potential
than they have shown, and Knight is a fine receiver.”

The Indians are expected to use Mosser and Bushnell to grind out yardage in the old three yards and a
cloud of dust philosophy advocated by Woody Hayes at Ohio State, where Tribe Coach Lou Holtz served in 1968. Fagg
anticipates that the Indians will not deviate from their “bread and butter” ground attack.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — La — CH — Par
ICE STEAK and — Salads
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

GALLEY FISH CAMP & TAPROOM
Where-Rena Marina
23 Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson
OPEN 9-8

The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY

Muthers Coffeehouse Theater
1225 Central Ave.
Phone 376-7100
Folk Music, Blues, Drama
Cold Beer
Open 7 nights a week 6:30 to 12:00
Rock Bands Sunday only 1-5
