ROWLAND y HUNGRY D “(See Page Six VOL. LX ) ‘\% ~ The Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1970

CAPS, GOWNS AND RAPT ATTENTION
Seniors stand during the opening convocation. (Photos by Davidson)

‘WE’RE ALL PEOPLE’
Coeds Express Their Views Of Davidson
By ALEC HOON Staff Writer
RUSS MERRITT Associate Editor

ED NOTE: The following interview is a transcript of a taped interview by THE DAVIDSONIAN last Tuesday.

DAVIDSONIAN: The idea of co-education at Davidson has been kicked around by the college for several years. Now that we actually do have co-education, in a very limited sense, do you as Davidson's first co-eds feel that the process will be successful?

KAREN QUANT: The boys I've talked to so far don't seem to want it, and if the boys don’t want it, it seems to me that they won't appreciate complete co-education. They might be able to get used to it, though.

CATHY ROSS: Possibly it may work better on a limited basis until the students are used to it.

DAVIDSONIAN: Does this mean that you feel that the Davidson student cannot and will not accept co-eds here as fellow students? Do you feel the majority of boys want you here?

MISS ROSS: I think they do, but I don’t think they like the idea of being completely co-educational. I don’t think it would work right now, although it might work later.

Van Allen Laments Cities, Receives Laws Doctorate

Davidson's second annual opening convocation began in formal academic procession and ended in a student-led standing ovation. The convocation, which has been heralded by some college officials as the finest set of tandem academic addresses in recent Davidson history, was formally keynoted by former Atlanta mayor Ivan Allen Jr. Allen's address on the problems of America’s cities was followed by a luncheon address by James W. Rouse primarily concerning the city of Columbia, Maryland which the Rouse Company is building. It was this speech which students of the class of ‘71 greeted with a standing ovation which eventually included most of the parents in the audience.

Allen told the assembled students at the convocation Monday that today’s youth “must address itself to the problem of the city.” There they will find overcrowding, inadequate housing, faulty transportation facilities, and inadequate job opportunities, largely because state legislatures have failed to provide adequate planning, aid, and services. Allen, speaking on “Urban Problems,” also noted that commuters who live in the suburbs have abdicated their responsibility to the urban area as a whole, leaving the city governments with inadequate revenue. In such a situation, Allen said, cities can only turn to the federal government. Such innovations as the “war on poverty” and model cities program he regards as positive steps.

Allen, who dealt vigorously with racial discrimination during his eight years as mayor of Atlanta, said that most abuses have been eliminated. Fair housing is the great problem now. Mayor Allen predicted that Davidson's seniors would live in a freer, open society, and expressed his confidence that free enterprise has “a great capability for making changes.” After his address, Allen was conferred with an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws.

Rouse continued Allen's theme of city problems in discussing his company's attempt to develop a city from scratch near Washington, D. C. The city, Columbia, is already meeting its population and economic goals with over fifty families a week moving into the area during the summer months. Rouse's aim in promoting the city is to show that cities can be made to successfully serve the people who inhabit them without falling heir to the ills Allen described in the main address. Speaking of the past record of the United States in dealing with the cities, Rouse complained of the public apathy which has greeted most problems in that area. Saying that the cities are an example of how badly misplaced national priorities have been, Rouse noted that more money is spent in Viet- (See ROUSE, Page 8)

DAVIDSONIAN: In the short time that you've been here, have you experienced, as a female in a previously all-male school, that you have been accepted for other than superficial reasons?

CONNIE LOWRANCE: Everyone's accepted me, I feel. Everyone's been very friendly.

BETH YOUNG: And it's been as people rather than just as girls. The faculty, the staff, the students — everybody has been so friendly.

DAVIDSONIAN: Many people have openly wondered at how the actual classroom procedure will be altered with females present. Have you felt in any way that a professor has been prejudiced either for or against you, since your presence in the classroom is so evident?

MISS YOUNG: Well, the first five days the professors would make some comment like “Well, gentlemen, and ladies too.” But now they don’t seem to pay any special attention to me.

MISS LOWRANCE: I feel like my professors are nervous about my being in their classes. I think that they are really wondering if we should compete on the same level as boys. They’ve been waiting in my classes for me to say something to see if my mind is anywhere near the boys’, either above or below.

DAVIDSONIAN: From what you’ve observed so far, is the workload of your classes here more or less than that at your respective schools?

CAROL DANIEL: It’s easier.

MISS DANIEL: I don't know about the reviews, but the calculus reading is much easier here than at Hollins.

DAVIDSONIAN: The Charlotte News story on you stated that you came to Davidson strictly for academic reasons. Have you found your hopes in Davidson’s academic process to be fulfilled? Are you getting out of the classroom what you wanted?

MISS ROSS: I think that first of all you must qualify what you mean by “academic.” It’s more than just getting a course that you want or finding a professor that’s right up your alley.

DAVIDSONIAN: Then let's call it the “educational experience.”

MISS ROSS: It’s a little early to say that. I think, though, that it looks like it’s going to be a lot of what I had hoped for.

MISS DANIEL: I've been really impressed by the attitude the guys here have out of class about studying. At a girls’ school, you squeeze your studying in.whenever you can. Even guys I know here that are pretty much party-oriented sit down at night and study.

DAVIDSONIAN: While we are on that subject, what is your evaluation of the Davidson student?

SUSAN STRAHN: Apathe-
(See COEDS, Page 8)

Fraternities Hit New Low
By JOHN McLEAN
Associate Editor

As the academic year begins, the exodus from Patterson fraternity court continues to gain momentum. Figures released by the college business office Wednesday show at least 21 persons have gone inactive from fraternities in the two weeks since school began. College officials said this figure is probably lower than the actual number of this year’s inactives because it counts only those who have applied for a refund on their fraternity housing fees.

This extraordinary number of inactives continues a trend which was gaining momentum last spring. College officials estimate that some 100 fraternity members dropped out last year. Last April THE DAVIDSONIAN reported that this academic year would begin with only 538 fraternity members. That prediction has proven somewhat inflated: The business office now counts only 475 fraternity members, based on the exact number of persons it is billing for fraternity housing fees.

With these figures in hand, college president Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced Wednesday he will speak to the college community Monday on the fraternity issue and others. Although Spencer declined to comment on the content of the speech beforehand, sources close to the president said he would probably publicly endorse the recommendations of the Student Life Committee (SLC) on fraternities.

The SLC report calls for gradual denationalization of the court over a three-year period and random assignment of freshmen to houses. In effect, the plan would replace fraternities with non-selective eating clubs. The SLC plan would bar freshmen from pledging national houses in the first year. ‘Pledges’ would take the status of ‘local brothers,’ and they would be randomly assigned, not rushed.

The SLC report does not have the force of law, but is only advisory to the president and the trustees. Only the trustees have the authority to implement its recommendations, Spencer said. Unimpeachable sources indicated the report will be forwarded to the trustees’ social life committee with Spencer’s endorsement of most of its points. The proposal could be acted upon as early as Oct. 16, when the trustees hold their fall meeting on campus. This item has not been placed on the agenda yet, however, it had not been decided what Spencer would say in his Monday speech, whether it would deal on campus social life or on specific recommendations.

The speech has been set for Monday morning at 10 a.m. in Spencer Love Auditorium. Sources close to the SLC said the committee had discussed several eating arrangements alternative to the present fraternity set-up. They discussed, but did not recommend, one central eating facility for all students. The final proposal is thus interpreted as a final arrangement, allowing for 12 eating clubs and a central union.

College officials have viewed with some alarm the crowded college union cafeteria. During the past week, breakfast lines have stretched outside the cafeteria, and on at least one occasion the serving line had to be stopped until places could be cleared for students to be seated.

First Rolls Indicate ROTC Decline

Although finalized figures are still not available, freshman ROTC enrollment appears to be down from last year, with a total of 103 freshmen taking the course this year. Col. Virgil P. Foster, professor of military science, also indicated that approximately 10% of last year's freshman class has dropped ROTC although this estimate is uncertain since sophomores are not required to attend class in the fall.

Foster said that about 50 students have signed contracts for advanced ROTC. He indicated that “I am certainly not discouraged by this number.” Several other students are expected to sign their contracts in the near future.

“There has been very little change in the format of the ROTC program since last year,” said Foster, “However, I would like to do something different to diversify the program and increase interest, but there seems to be very little leadership available to do so.” Foster added, “It would be difficult to predict the effects on ROTC enrollment if student deferments were to be abolished. The world situation and a student's personal feelings would have a greater effect upon the enrollment.

“At the present ROTC is doing well on the Davidson campus because a student joins the program on his own volition, producing a stronger, better ROTC program.”

Extended Studies Plan To Stress Independence
By JOE EARLE
Staff Writer

Davidson College will institute a system of extended independent study this year. Under this system each student will take only two classroom subjects and one extended study course during one term, according to Danny Clodfelter, student member of the Academic Affairs Committee. Extended study can be done in one of three ways: a seminar, individual reading from a prepared list of texts in preparation for an area exam or research paper, or a regular course in the curriculum during either the freshman or sophomore year. All extended study courses are on the pass-fail system, and carry an academic credit.

Five committees are to be appointed, one from each area of study and one inter-area group, to help students set up the manner in which they wish to take their extended study. “This is an extremely flexible system,” commented Clodfelter, “and will allow the individual student to fulfill his study requirements in the way he wishes.” During his junior and senior years the student only works in the area of his major. His freshman and sophomore years the work must be done in other areas.

EPC Considers Honors Program
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC), now headed by Dr. John M. Bevan, kicked off the year with a general meeting last Monday. Bevan, Vice President for Academic Affairs, said the purpose was “to raise issues for discussion and to get clarifications on certain matters of policy.” Extended Studies has top priority before the EPC. Bevan hopes to have the five student-faculty committees organized as soon as possible. The meeting included a short briefing session for Bevan to familiarize him as to where the committee stands, but specific action was taken in a couple of areas.

With respect to mental honors, it was decided that the Honors College would be allowed to function on its own without outside restrictions. This gives the faculty of the Honors program complete autonomy in admitting, directing, and evaluating their students. The committee also considered students' programs involving one term abroad, such as Dr. Labban’s classics seminar in Greece last spring. Three course credits will be awarded to the students who participate in such activities. One of the credits may serve as an Extended Study requirement for sophomores, and this option also stands for juniors and seniors if the work has been approved in their respective majors.

Among other subjects discussed were self-scheduled exams. Further recommendations on their implementation were made, and Bevan stated that some were forthcoming. The summer school program at Davidson was examined, and the possibility of discontinuing it was mentioned. Suggestions for the evaluation of the faculty were entertained, some of which may include student participation. The EPC also questioned the validity of the grading system at Davidson, and Bevan expressed concern over “the applicability of the grade point and quality point averages.” The EPC convenes regularly the first and third Monday of each month, and any open meetings will be announced.