November 6, 1970 (Staff photo by Doty)

PRACTICE PAYS
Wildcats prepare for Lafayette.

McKay’s Passing Arm To Test Cat Defense
By ERNIE SHIPE
Sports Editor

Rich McKay and Mark Thompson have a lot in common. For two seasons both these quarterbacks spent their Saturday afternoons
on the bench watching either Ed Baker or Gordon Slade work his way to every school passing record. Like Thompson,
McKay has finally found a chance to play and in the process is approaching all the Lafayette passing records set
by Baker who was signed by the New York Giants last year. Tomorrow Thompson and McKay will see what they
can do against each other as the Wildcats face Lafayette at 2 p.m. in Richardson Stadium. Lafayette is fresh from
a 21-14 victory over Gettysburg.

Fagg Declares New Season
By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

Davidson's football team is unbeaten and untied this season. Head coach Dave Fagg and his squad declared a new season
after the loss to Wofford, and the Wildcats began that second season this year with a convincing 55-21 thrashing of
VMI. Fagg was understandably thrilled with the win, the first for the Cats since the opening victory over Richmond. "We
had a lot of good things happen to us," explained Fagg. "We got ahead and made VMI play catch-up. We
made fewer mistakes than we have been making." Fagg cited Hugh Dennis, Nick Dumich, Mark Thompson, Johnny Ribet, Mike Mikolayunas,
and Bill Bracken as being instrumental in leading Davidson. The win broke a four-game losing skid. Ribet attributed the offensive
explosion to a more balanced attack. "We ran more against VMI," he said. "They were ready for our sweeps, so
we ran up the middle most of the time." Ribet had high praise for the offensive linemen. "The line opened
up big holes, and the tackles did a great job of downfield blocking." He was also optimistic about the future,
commenting that the improving running game would help the Davidson passing attack. Dennis was also very happy. A defensive tackle,
he was pleased with the Wildcat defenders, who held the Keydets to a field goal in the first half. "Putting
the first part of our schedule aside really helped us," he stated. "The two things that helped us get prepared
for VMI most were the declaration of the new season, and some real hard practices the week before the game."
Dennis pointed to better tackling as the key to the victory.

Wildcats Finish Twelfth In Cross-Country Meet
By HAL CANTER
Sports Writer

Davidson's cross-country team came in 12th with a total of 350 points in the North Carolina State Meet last Monday
at Raleigh. Davidson Coach Sterling Martin said that it was an "outstanding race." He added, "Duke had the edge." Duke
University and the University of North Carolina have taken first and second places respectively for the past two years in
the meet. Martin was surprised that North Carolina State University finished third, but they had an excellent runner. "I expected
East Carolina to be stronger," Martin said. "Even though Duke was far ahead in the running and the Wildcats were
confronted with outstanding competition, our boys ran well," Martin said. Waldrop of the University of North Carolina finished first in
the race with a time of 25:11. The course record, which was set in 1967, is 25:06. Coach Martin added
that Waldrop came from behind to pass the lead men of Duke and clinch first place for UNC. Howard Boyd
ran a fine race with a time of 29:10. Joe Shibley, who has improved greatly over the season, ran a
29:39. Mike Butits finished third for Davidson in 30:45. Richard Fort finished in 30:46 and Ran Coble came in with
31:32. The Wildcats will travel to Lexington, Va. on Nov. 16 to run in the Southern Conference meet. Martin feels
sure that William and Mary will take first place at the meet. He added that Furman, The Citadel, and East
Carolina will be running close for second place. The possibility of VMI taking third place since they are a dark
horse on their own home course.Defensive performance. "We didn’t miss all the tackles that we did in our four losses,"
he explained. Dennis said that a combination of the wet field and the fact that V.M.I. got behind early caused
the Keydets to throw the ball a lot. He cited the defensive backfield as having responded to this challenge well,
pointing to Dumich as the burg. The Leopards (from Easton, Pa.) own a 3-5 record for the season and play
in the Middle Atlantic Conference where they are 1-2. McKay is 355 yards away from Baker’s single-season passing mark with
three games remaining. The senior quarterback from New York City has passed for 1095 yards, completing 70 of 152 passes.
McKay was instrumental in the Leopards’ win over Gettysburg last Saturday, rifling 54 and 58-yard touchdown passes in the second
half. Offensive line coach Turnley Todd compared Lafayette with Bucknell. "They are the same size defensively as Bucknell and they
hit like mad. The team’s speed is a little better than average." Lafayette barely lost to Bucknell earlier in the
season, 30-28. Bucknell downed the Wildcats, 21-20. Todd explained that the Leopards run out of a full-I and slot-I. Tailback
Tom Conway is called on to do most of the rushing. The 180-pound sophomore has picked up 257 yards on
79 carries for a 3.2 average. Conway was called on to carry 22 times against Gettysburg. Although he is better
known as a receiver, flanker Bob Donofrio has the best rushing mark. He has picked up 5.9 yards per carry,
gaining 382 yards on 65 attempts. The 5-9, 170-pound senior is one of McKay’s favorite targets as he’s caught 26
passes for 528 yards. Joining them in the backfield is fullback Peter Tonks. The leading pass receiver for the Leopards
is Rick Nowell. The 6-3 split end has snared 30 passes for 529 yards. Nowell’s relief, Darrell Johnson, is a
threat as well. Against Gettysburg, he hauled in three passes for 102 yards. John Summers lines up at tight end
for the Leopards. On defense, the Leopards alternate between a 4-3 and 5-2. Defensive end and linebacker John Bourgher is
the man to watch. The 215-pound senior has been tabbed for postseason recognition. Head Coach Harry Gamble said before the
season that the key to Lafayette’s success would be the improvement of the defense.

'Cats Take Fourth At Charleston

The Davidson sailing team placed fourth out of six entrants in an invitational regatta at the College of Charleston on
Oct. 31. The regatta was hampered by flood conditions in the Cooper River and extremely strong winds, according to Jith
Hunter, skipper of the A division boat. Hunter said he felt the team had not sailed up to their potential
in any of the regattas this season. Hunter skippered the A division boat all five races with Mark Leonard serving
as crewman in the first four and Doug Brown in the fifth. Richard Curry skippered the first four races in
the B division, with Andy Trahern as crew, and Trahern piloted the fifth with Roger Manley as crew. The Wildcat
skippers placed behind The Citadel, The College of Charleston, The University of South Carolina, and ahead of Georgia Tech and
The University of Tennessee. This week the sailors travel to Tennessee for their fourth conference regatta. Hunter stated that he
felt the Wildcats could do no worse than third at Tennessee, though he would not comment beyond that. At the
University of Tennessee, the team will be racing "Flying Jets," a type of boat that no team member has raced
before. At Charleston, "Jet-14’s" were used.

Cornelius 892-8468 10-9 P.M.

BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET "It’s Incomparable" Sandwiches — Pizza Sundaes

Martin was mentioned as a performer in that phase of the game.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

"OPEN 9-8"

BEST PIZZA west of ITALY Spaghetti — Sandwiches — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS

La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N.C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

MONDAY - SATURDAY
