Inspiration

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

December 11, 1970

Page Five

This Loner Plays Piano.

A REVIEW By KEN PARKS Staff Writer

A man who has no background, no purpose in life, and no future except tomorrow. These are the traditional elements
that have intrigued American moviegoers for years. "Shane" moved into a frame of our minds and out again. From such
a background...

Let Window Painting Brighten Your Room

By SCOTT DAVIDSON News Editor

Students walking behind Belk Dormitory at night have been unable to avoid noticing the glow of the constantly increasing number
of windows bearing colorful designs. The work is that of Ashton Trice, a Davidson graduate now residing in Charlotte. Trice
uses acrylic paints mixed with water, which he applies to the windows with a brush. His subjects have ranged from
Captain America to Alice in Wonderland, and he has completed nine windows so far, with requests for eight more.

Trice said that he painted the first window because he was interested in seeing how polymers work on glass. He
claims his work is "completely unartistic. I do whatever someone likes, if I can do it. Actually, I’m just copying.
The only artistic requirements are rearranging the designs to fit the shape of the window."

Mrs. Scotty Nicholls, Director of Student Housing, called the windows "very colorful." She laughingly admitted that she knew of no
regulation forbidding window painting, but cautioned that students would receive a service charge if the designs were not removed at
the end of the year.

Bill Mosely, whose King Crimson design peers down from the third floor, initiated the craze. He said he agreed to
the idea because "Ashton suggested it and I thought it would be cool." Alan Baragona, a first-floor Belk resident whose
window bears images of slithy toves and momraths, stated, "I was sick of everything being so dull behind Belk. Belk,
unpainted, is somewhat less than an architectural achievement. Mosely's window proved what could be done to improve it."

Rowland’s Football Stand Attacked; Popenoe Offering Counseling Help

ED. NOTE: The author of the following letter is a member of the Davidson College Board of Visitors and president
of Shands & Baker, Inc.

Dear Mr. Rowland:

Today I had the misfortune of having to read your article "Football Costs Indefensible." It reminds me of the picture
that is depicted of you with the long hair and the glasses, and I just think that you ought to
find out where the money is coming from. It is coming from us fellows who are putting in money simply
for athletics, and not for anything else; and if you don’t get it from that, you are not going to
get it from the other side. I think you had better dig in and find out where the money is
developed for these scholarships and then write an article outlining what are the actual facts.

Thomas S. Baker ‘26 Jacksonville, Fla.

Rowland replies:

"The best information available reveals that football costs totaled $267,000 annually: that figure applies to both last year’s winning season
and to this year’s dismal showing. Even with some of the so-called athletic scholarships paid for by Wildcat Club fund-raising,
next year Davidson will cough up about $117,000 for football. Beneficent football fans do not pay for football. And the
wasting of such sums of money when other more meritorious programs are shafted is, I still maintain, grossly outrageous. Mr.
Baker's distress with Cullum Rogers' caricature of me is amusing since the same artist depicts our college president with hair
at least as long and glasses even larger. I ask neither Mr. Baker nor anyone else to justify their wearing
or not wearing glasses or any length of hair; I wish this tolerance were reciprocated."

ED. NOTE: The following letter was sent by the president of the American Institute of Family Relations. Anyone desiring further
information should write to the organization at this address: 5287 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, Calif. 90027.

To the Editor:

One of the serious problems in college and university life today is the lack of attention to the personality needs
of the students. Suicide is the second most common cause of death on the campus, topped only by automobile accidents;
but those who have studied the subject believe that half of the latter are "concealed suicides," thus, suicide actually leads
the list. Dr. Howard A. Rusk of the New York University Medical Center collected estimates that...90,000 students each year will
threaten suicide, one in ten will make the attempt, and there will be 1,000 actual deaths resulting. Beyond this, he
calculates that among six million students, some 600,000 have emotional problems for which they need professional assistance. The National Institute
of Mental Health finds that “the factor of human isolation and withdrawal” appears to be critical; and the colleges recognize
the serious problem created by these “loners” and are trying to provide help but admit (in hundreds of letters to
us from deans) that they do not have adequate solutions. This waste of some of the nation’s finest young people
is intolerable. Since for every actual death, nearly a hundred have felt so desperate as to threaten it, much light
could be thrown on the subject by learning what factors enabled the fortunate ones to work out their difficulties and
keep going.

With the help of a friend who is vitally interested in this subject, the American Institute of Family Relations is
carrying out a nationwide study of what is being done and what could and should be done. We need to
hear from as many students and former students as possible who have faced such a crisis. What pulled them out
of it? Was it aid furnished by the college or university? or other community organization? or by a friend? or
religion? or reading? Just how did they save themselves? We will not publish the names of any individuals or schools;
the information will be handled statistically and anonymously. If you can call the attention of your readers to this study
and ask for volunteers who will write their experiences to me (“personal”) at the above address, it may contribute toward
saving valuable lives.

We shall certainly be most grateful for any help you can give.

Paul Popenoe
Los Angeles, Calif.

Many of the accolades wasted on “Easy Rider” would be far more applicable to “Five Easy Pieces.” Bob Rafelson directs
this with the maturity, sensitivity, and experience that was missing in so many of the earlier movies that supposedly told
of disillusionment. Jack Nicholson, best known for his supporting role in “Easy Rider,” plays Bobby, a bowling, beer-guzzling, wenching, cursing
roustabout who is currently passing the time on an oil rig.

Bobby is living with a no-mind, small-town waitress named Rayette (Karen Black). Rayette devotes herself to him. We first realize
that Bobby is no run-of-the-mill laborer when he climbs onto the back of a truck during a traffic jam and
plays Chopin on a rattling, out-of-tune old upright piano. Soon Bobby, known to his past as Robert Eroica Dupea, reveals
more of his true character to us. Robert came from a family with a heritage of musical genius. He is
a man who is too sensitive to live in the masses, where he has tried and will try to lose
his identity, too realistic to live in an elitist world where music and excellence are man’s chief end. The other
members of his family consider their gifts sacred and use and multiply their talents. Robert, however, lives with no purpose
in life in an existence of ennui.

Fed up with his crass environment, he takes Rayette with him and returns to his birthplace on Puget Sound. Realizing
her inability to fit into his old life, he leaves her at a motel before he goes to the island
recluse. Susan Anspach plays the young protégé and fiancée of his brother. Her sensitivity and refinement prove too much for
Robert to resist. The relationship of Robert to the two women in his life, Rayette and Catherine, tells much of
his relationship with the world. Rayette lives from day to day, reveling and savoring sensual pleasures. No world but herself
and her man exists. This world she covets.

Catherine represents a different kind of life. Musical, delicate, cultured, and refined, Robert asks her to go away with him,
to a place uncluttered with other people. To this she replies with a most piercing question, “How can you, who
love nothing and no one, expect to be loved?”

“Five Easy Pieces” (which by the way is a reference to a children's book of piano pieces) is a movie
that is a must this year. It may easily become a classic in its type of film.
