Page Two November 13, 1970

The Davidsonian

Next Film Judged Great: A REVIEW

By SCOTT DAVIDSON
News Editor

With Mart Crowley's "The Boys in the Band," the College Union has finally booked a winner, a real winner. The
splendid off-Broadway drama has been meticulously transmitted to the screen completely intact. A birthday party, attended by eight homosexuals and
one (maybe) heterosexual, is held over the length of an evening. The guests participate in the fun and games.

The drama concerns homosexuals, but it takes homosexuality for granted, accepts it as a way of life. What one finds
is conflict, not among an individual group of homosexuals, but among a group of individuals who are drawn together by
the unique trait of their homosexuality. Crowley's play strips away the pretensions of its characters, slowly and painfully, until all
that remains is the truth—stark, vicious, glaring, unfettered by glittering facades. It is all so adamant, so uncompromising, that its
very pessimism produces an almost satisfactory acceptance of life.

In the making of the movie, an almost unprecedented event took place. With the exception of the directorial command, all
the talents that were involved in making such a success of the stage version were prevailed upon to repeat their
respective roles in the cinematic transformation. For this, we can be truly grateful.

The acting shows the advantages of years of total submersion in the role. This troupe performed together in their original
off-Broadway environment, and then took the show to London. And it shows. It would be unfair to judge the actors
separately, for to praise one might be to slight another. Each is magnificent in his own role, but they are
part of a carefully drilled team.

Mart Crowley has written a screenplay that is wittily ascerbic, bitingly droll. It demonstrates his technical coordination with language and
his facility for understanding the human experience. The only newcomer is William Friedkin, the director. Following in Robert Moore's footsteps,
he has maintained the mood and feel of the original.

"The Boys in the Band" is, for my money, the movie of the year. It doesn’t demonstrate the cinematic innovation
of a Nichols product, but its dramatic proficiency is unequaled. It is the type of film that leaves you feeling
weak and emotionally drained. Its presence on our campus is a distinction to the tastes of the movie council. See
it once, and just marvel at the impact of it all. Then see it again and again, and revel in
its brilliance.

A note to voyeurs: This is an extremely mature, tasteful movie. Do not come expecting to be titillated!

By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Staff Writer

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan and Registrar Jay H. Ostwalt met Tuesday with

Fraternities To Bid Dec. 5

By DAVID GRISSETT
Managing Editor

A representative group of many of the fraternities involved in the recent open house program have presently set rush plans
for the first week of winter term. Rush parties are scheduled for Nov. 30, Dec. 1, 3 and 4. Bids
will be distributed on Dec. 5.

Lyman Parragin, spokesman for the group, said that at least 6 houses will be participating, and that there would possibly
be more. Last Thursday evening seven of the fraternities on Patterson Court held open house for this year’s freshman. Parragin
termed the open house "a success by all the houses involved."

Parragin indicated that about 150 freshmen participated according to reports that he had received from the seven houses. "This turnout
was quite good since there was a play, freshman football game and a movie going on at the same time,"
said Parragin.

The fraternities which participated in the open house last week were Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Phi Epsilon,

Davidsonian Staff

Chief Associate: PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editors: DICK ANDERSON, RUSS MERRITT, JOE SMITH
Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT, DON PARMAN
Sports Editor: ERNIE SHIPE
Assistant Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD WILSON
Copy Editors: JEFF ALLENDER, STEVE CROSS
Contributors this week: Alec Hoon, Robert Touchton, Charlie Terrell, Peter Michael, and Howard Boyd.
News Editor: SCOTT DAVIDSON
Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE
Ass't Sports Editors: JOE EARLE, A. W. TURNER
Cartoonists: J. B. FAWCETT, ZACK MOBLEY, CULLUM ROGERS, DARYL WILLIAMS
Circulation Managers: BRUCE PUCKETT, HOWARD RAMAGLI
Photographers: DAVE DOTY, ROGER MANLEY, SAM RAMACHANDRAN, BOB STRAND

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C.28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00. Kappa Alpha,
Kappa Sigma, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Nu, and Alpha Tau Omega. A second open house is planned for November 18
between 9 and 11 p.m. Paragin explained that there was some difficulty in getting the freshmen to move around. “That’s
the reason for the second open house. It is also hoped that freshmen who couldn’t participate last time will be
able to the second time.” When asked about the overall effects of the open house, Paragin said that all involved
agreed “that the open houses were a lot more relaxed and there was better participation than had been expected.” (Staff
photo by Manley)

PLANNING THE FUTURE
Bevan discusses Extended Studies with Sophomores.

Bevan Meets Sophomores
The assembled sophomore class met to discuss the changes currently in progress with regard to Extended Studies. The meeting drew
about 55 sophomores. Bevan began the discussion by making the point that there is a need for more flexibility in
most academic programs. Some provisions of the initial plan are that Extended Studies work shall be comparable in quality and
quantity to work in a regular course and that the work should be taken in some area separate from the
student’s major. Consequently, Extended Studies could serve as a “sampling” area to help the student decide a major. Another provision
of the report is that Extended Studies work shall be available during all three terms. Bevan intimated that some of
the reading programs might be offered during the summer.

Bevan presented five options for the program. One option is a reading program wherein a student reads from a bibliography
compiled by one of the area committees. Each committee is then responsible for determining its own testing procedures. Another of
these options is one regular course taken on a pass-fail basis. Beginning with this year’s freshman class, only one such
course will be allowed during the first two years. Another option is a seminar open to the college as a
whole. These would generally be conducted in areas not presently covered by regular courses. The fourth program option is a
series of concerts, shows, plays, movies, or readings, supplemented with outside reading. Again, each area committee would be responsible for
testing procedures. The final option is a project done by the student. These projects would be on a contract basis
with a particular professor. Most would be of the student’s choosing.

Clodfelter Condemns
(Continued from Page 1)
nosis (a disease common to textile workers) even existed at their plants.” A second failing that Clodfelter mentioned was the
failure of the companies to permit the formation of unions. The Stevens Company was “a notorious union-buster,” having had many
decisions decided against them by the National Labor Board. “By contrast, such an incredible loyalty existed among Cannon employees that
no such crude devices were needed to prevent unionization,” he commented.

Speaking about the television show, he said, “As far as taping the documentary was concerned, the company was very uncooperative.
We received many rebuttals on requests for interviews with company officials.” The television program itself had one telling filmed scene
where an unidentified official was heard to turn down Clodfelter’s request for an interview. Clodfelter did add that the workers
themselves were extremely cooperative and said exactly what they felt.

On the positive side, Clodfelter admitted that both towns had a fairly high standard of living. Using Kannapolis as an
example, he said that since the Cannon company owned the town, they provided good streets, sidewalks (except in the black
district), a YMCA, and contributions to schools and churches. Another factor present was the increased hiring of blacks, Clodfelter stated.
“While this helps the economic status, there are still the problems of discrimination, especially in seniority and in the jobs
open to them.”

Speaking in generalities, he said, “The power in Roanoke was more restrained than I had expected. However, in Kannapolis, there
is still much influence as exhibited in the recent elections in which the company had several men favorable to their
point of view elected. I think that this power will stay as long as Mr. Cannon (age 79) does.”

OPEN HOUSE
The following homes will be open Sunday evening at 8: Polley Ney Circle.
