“ The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO SEPTEMBER 18, 1970

Official Policy

With the start of a new year and with several hundred new faces on campus, it becomes valuable, if not necessary, for THE DAVIDSONIAN to redefine its policy as a campus newspaper.

First, perhaps it would be best to make perfectly clear what THE DAVIDSONIAN is not. We are not the official news organ for anyone. We are not the “news and editorial voice of Davidson College” nor can we be called the “news and editorial voice of the Davidson College student body.” Neither can it be said that THE DAVIDSONIAN in any official way seeks to represent Davidson and its activities to the outside world. We are a campus newspaper with a journalistic obligation to print the news of Davidson College. Not an official version of the news. Not a biased version of the news. Just the news.

It might seem that we are grossly overstating our point, but in the light of recent criticism, comment, and misunderstanding about our work, we feel it is necessary to publicly rededicate ourselves to that position. On our news pages, we strive for accuracy and fairness. If there are two sides to a controversy, we will work to present both. But editorially we are our own voice. We even covet opposing points of view to be expressed in letters to the editor. Our columns will strive to present a wide range of opinions. It must be remembered, however, that the opinions expressed by the columnists do not necessarily represent those of the editor. The columnists are given considerable freedom of expression so that their columns are personal rather than expressions of any official DAVIDSONIAN attitudes.

Nominally the editorials are the public opinions of the editor and his associates. But actually they are more than that. They are part of the tradition of journalism on this campus which has sought and still seeks to print the news but at the same time to raise hell about it when we think it necessary. It is not that we can claim authority by virtue of expressing opinions in printed matter. Merely we are part of the “willingness to contemplate what is happening” which has marked this paper, and journalism, from the beginning.

Cooler

It almost seemed that again the forces of dark and evil were about to visit an abomination upon the forces of goodness and light by visiting all the dorm rooms in search of outlaw refrigerators. Any refrigerator over 50 watts would be suspect. Seriously, the latest edict on refrigerators coming in the form it did seemed a bit hard to take. What was badly needed was a little more communication on the subject. Why was the limit at 50 watts? Was the effort one in fact to limit the amount of food storage a student may have in conjunction with the effort to limit cooking in the dorms? Was the wattage restriction based on the economic problems of running all those student refrigerators? Or was the restriction based on the technical problem of providing electricity to run all those refrigerators? We really could not answer those questions. Why not, you ask. Because, boys and girls, what we had here is a failure to communicate.

We must thank the housing office for working to compromise on the issue. Now perhaps no one will be hurt by the sudden restriction. It does seem, however, that the first communication should have carried a little more information of the sort suggested above and beyond the bare facts of the restriction. As it was, a major campus controversy was about to brew over refrigerators of all things. Seriously once again, it must be remembered that many of the ill feelings between students, administration, and faculty last spring could have been avoided if each “side” had known the reasons for the decisions reached by the other parties in the various discussions. Now the refrigerator restriction is really a picayune editorial subject except that it is a source of consternation to many students who own refrigerators and to many more who see it as an example of the kind of unexplained dealings they do not want from our administrators. Something more than an 11th-hour letter of restriction is needed in broaching an issue of such popular concern.

And while we are on a pitiful subject like refrigerators, may we suggest that the SGA, or some other quasi-official body, seriously consider renting refrigerators to students. Successful rental programs have now been established at several area colleges including UNC - Charlotte, Wake Forest, UNC - Greensboro, and N. C. State. Details of operation are only a phone call away. In addition to being quite popular, the rentals have proven in some cases to be good money raisers for scholarships or speaker funds. It’s just a thought, but we would like to see someone consider it.

Self-Scheduling

Among the many proposals for campus and academic change which were being debated at the end of last spring was included self-scheduled exams. And it is quite significant to us that on this issue at least administrative action was positive. Even more significant is the action of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) in placing the issue high on its agenda for this fall. We would like also to encourage the EPC to reach an early conclusion as to a mechanism for self-scheduled exams to allow the faculty plenty of time for debate of the subject before the fall exam period. Always in the back of our minds is the hope that this time for sure students will have a chance to try the much-discussed exam system. The approval of the principle by the EPC last spring deserves the students’ thanks. But a chance to actually try the system would indeed be cause for real gratitude.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Alumnus Resents Smug Wording In College Solicitation Pamphlet

ED. NOTE: The following letter is taken from one written in response to an alumni solicitation pamphlet mailed during the summer which refers to Davidson as a “curious business” which is “producing a fine custom-made product.”

To the Editor:

I am writing in response to the recent folder soliciting funds for the support of Davidson, a thing called “. . . people make the difference.” I was out of town when it came or I should have replied sooner; I am a full-time student completing a PhD here or I would have considered enclosing a contribution. But I have not added to Davidson's endowment, “Living” or otherwise, since my graduation in 1961; and largely because of a deeply felt resentment of just the type of racist smugness which the beginning of this folder panders, and which characterized a large segment of the Davidson people while I was there — those were the days of the trustees’ decision that it was not “in the best interest of Davidson College to integrate.” But, my goodness, now I understand all that has changed, what with black sit-ins and a fire bombing basketball players, missionary imports, etc.

I wonder when some of you down there are going to wake up not just to the “people who are Davidson,” but to those who could be Davidson. And these include not just all the black people whom you like to see in their place, as “excellent reliable workers,” but all of those overfed, undernourished middle-class kids from the South who make up the meat and potatoes of the student meal, the raw materials of the process for the “small company in the business of producing a fine custom-made product.” Those students always could have made such a different Davidson if—Davidson had cared to make a different product. Fine, perhaps; but custom-made without a doubt. Who could say it better? The language of this folder is offensive beyond its execrable prose—and the Davidson mind behind it and before it continue, I fear, to be made by the customs of the South instead of making those customs bend and adjust to the onslaught of the humanizing influences of the second half of the twentieth century.

No college today worth two Refrigerator Raid: 1970 COME IN. business’ we ought to be in is really education, not a custom-made product, and a higher education which informs and affects the society whose customs otherwise would remain unexamined and unchanged. All the Honors Colleges and Humanities Programs in the cosmos won't meana damn thing until you have a philosophy of education that precludes expressing yourself in marketing terms. Davidson’s product is a much-touted product, and, when I was there at least, such an overrated one that were there a “Consumers Report” for colleges and universities, Davidson would be out of business. And it is not necessary for me to add that I have an investment in Davidson College without contributing one more cent above the cost of my four years there. Intangibly, I feel an investment every time someone asks me where I did my undergraduate work. Although feelings for institutions are hard to come by these days, I suppose I would like to feel the gratitude for the place which I do feel for some of its people, men whose knowledge and character influenced me well. There were few of us in 1960-61 to work in the new-born civil rights movement in Charlotte and Greensboro, and our experience with the apathy and hostility of the college and the church in general for that time would have been more disheartening without the presence of such men. I learned a little, not very much, about patience from these men whose humility before their institution, whose views they had no power to change directly and immediately, was touching and frustrating at the same time. I hope there continue to be such good people there, and such good students as some I knew. But I cannot say strongly enough how I feel that you, the voice of my college (in the pamphlet), do not deserve these people, their support, their lives as long as you persist in the kinds of incredible breaches of sensitivity, knowledge, and wisdom so painfully evident in a folder like this one.

Larry Smith ‘61
Buffalo, N.Y.

Peaceniks Solicit Help In Christmas Boycott

To the Editor:
We see as hypocrisy the extravagant celebration of Christmas when there is no peace on earth. So our group feels it is time for a Christmas boycott. We are not going to buy presents this year, nor are we going to receive them. We will do without decorations, and may be fasting on Christmas day instead of feasting. Instead of spending, we will work for peace on earth by giving our money to help make amends for the suffering we have caused—such as by financially adopting a Vietnamese child, and by giving our time to stop the war. We are calling for people to put peace back in Christmas. What better way to observe the birth of Christ than to bring an end to the war this year?

We are counting on college groups to do most of the local work. Here are some possible approaches for organizing the boycott:
1. Contact local clergy—many should be receptive to taking commercialism out of Christmas and putting peace back in.
2. Organize picket lines at department stores and shopping centers.
3. Do guerilla theater on the sidewalk in front of large stores. Dramatize the horrors of war or the contradictions in the thinking of the military.
4. Leaflet at high schools, train stations, churches, and shopping centers.
5. Urge fellow students not to go home for vacation unless their parents agree to participate in the boycott.

We would welcome any criticisms and suggestions readers might have of this proposal.

Westport Citizens for Peace
Westport, Conn.

Buchanan Raps Bussing Request

To the Editor:
A senior visiting me this week informed me that Davidson students had been told that it was their duty to help the Charlotte-Mecklenburg school system carry out the court’s mass integration plan by driving buses for which the county cannot find drivers. I feel that this instance of extra-campus activity somewhat misinterprets the role that Davidson should take in the larger community. The Davidson student is properly concerned with the school systems in the surrounding areas, and should help strengthen the education process when he is able to do so. In this case, however, the contention that a school system based upon racial ratios, and dependent upon a forced bussing program too great for those directly involved to accomplish, that this change has brought about an improved education system, is seriously in doubt. The results of the school board election last spring and the continued litigation against the court's decision show that the people of Charlotte are opposed to this plan. In the college's participation in the Charlotte community, Davidson should promote good, sound education. Davidson should abhor the poisonous union of politics and schools out of which was conceived this most awkward scheme. It is a Davidson student's duty to avoid association with such a pernicious and nefarious plan.

Robert Buchanan ‘70
Nashville, Tennessee

By PAUL BEELIE

In Search Of A Column

Writing a column the first week of school is no mean task. Slick Sam hasn’t had time to make an ass of himself and other victims for scathing commentary have been well behaved as well, (or at least their errors have been understandable). I thought of writing one of those “Dear Freshmen” essays on Davidson tips newcomers need to know, but Cullum Rogers beat me to that in the Wildcat Handbook. The main thing he omitted was a list of phrases to bolster your points and impress your peers in class, such as: “While rereading Kant last night it occurred to me that...” In case someone is fool enough to argue with you, try “Well, I think if you'll examine the text more closely...” then hit them with page references. If all else fails to correct the misguided soul, you can always concede “Well, there MAY be something in what you say, but...” and imply that there probably isn’t anything to your challenger’s view.

I thought of doing something on ROTC, but then that’s all in the Handbook too. The ROTC department says they produce officers and that they’ll pay you handsomely if you’re willing to be produced. On the pro side of ROTC, Tom Rogers subtly reminds you of the draft and poses the probing question: if you’ve got to kill, would you rather be told to or tell others? On the other hand, John McLean observes that ROTC isn’t Christian and still isn’t fun. What more can you say?

I thought of composing an eloquent essay challenging the Class of '74 to not fall into the apostlehood of the apathetic, a Davidson tradition sadly unlikely to be deserted. Besides, who cares?

I thought of digging into local issues by telling you of summer experiences such as meeting CPA-sponsored, school board member-elect Jane Scott who spoke to a seminar on urban problems. She cited dozens of “crying needs,” began every other sentence with “however” and avoided entirely the question of how, other than bussing, could schools be racially balanced or the question of why students of all colors and classes should not get as good an education as those in the affluent, southeastern quadrant of the Queen City. After all, some of her best friends...

Or I could tell you of the bus driver who grinned as he wheeled his city bus dangerously near two pedestrian black women and wished “They ought to open season on ’em;” niggers that is. An agreeable passenger opined “if one race has to go it might as well be them.” But then, it is easier to belittle such people as rednecks and honkies than it is to deal with them as people.

President Nixon’s speech at Kansas State offered opportunity for comment on national issues. Amid praise for Kansas athletics, Tricky Dick actually said something worthwhile. It was on the order of, “violence and terror have no place in a civilized society.” What amazes me is not that insight but the President’s inability to see war as violent. Both Presidents Nixon and Spencer have spoken of dissent in terms of ‘the rule of reason rather than force’ but there are occasions when reasonable force is called for to stop greater atrocities of, say, our activity in Vietnam or our inactivity at home.

I thought of all these columns I could have written to begin the year, gentle reader, but couldn't bring myself to it. (Take nothing at face value and take no advice.)

Readers’ Forum

This page is reserved for your letters. THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters to the editor on any subject, regardless of the views expressed. Letters should not exceed 250 words in length, and we reserve the right to correct for grammar and style. THE DAVIDSONIAN has never in recent years refused to print a letter which was in good taste and whose author could be confirmed.