the Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$7.00.

PAGE TWO MAY 22, 1970

Play-Right

The Davidson College Statement of Purpose is a document of exceeding wonder and inspiration. Not only does it use over
twenty religious words, but it even dares to paraphrase the Bible (e.g., “To it has been given much, and of
it much will be required.”) It seems, however, that some students are not to be allowed this same freedom of
expression with regard to their own religious views. We refer to the case of Will Ravenel, who apparently will not
be allowed to present publicly an original play exhibiting some of his views toward the Christian experience.

Even worse is the fact that the student is being flagrantly denied his full right of academic freedom — a
freedom supported in that same statement of purpose. Although the statement of purpose claims Davidson tries to teach students “to
communicate freely with others in the realm of ideas,” the actions of the administration in limiting the performance of Ravenel’s
play border on outright censorship. The same right of academic freedom is guaranteed in the Code of Responsibility (or so
we thought) when it says, “Indispensable to the attainment of this aim (the pursuit of truth) is a spirit of
free inquiry and expression in which members of the college community are expected to develop the capacity for critical judgment
and to engage in a sustained and independent search for truth.”

Yet Ravenel will apparently be allowed to engage in this “free inquiry and expression” only at a time and place
and under circumstances dictated by the administration. The logic behind the restrictions on Ravenel apparently involves the reaction which the
“continuing college community” fears it would get from persons outside the campus. They apparently feel that college-church, college-community, and to
be realistic, college-benefactor relationships would be damaged. Not only are these fears petty, they ignore the purpose of the college
as a liberal arts institution functioning to preserve learning even in a community where such learning may not exist.

The real reason behind the administrative repression of Ravenel’s play seems to be the same sort of personal morality judgments
on the part of some high officials who have used this morality against similar issues in the not so distant
past. It seems quite true that the college could allow many activities without being blamed for supporting some of the
less desirous effects of these activities.

In summary, this college should uphold its liberal educational ideals or get out of the education business; hypocrisy has no
place in an educational institution. Either that or we as students might turn to more inoffensive subjects — anyone for
fingerpainting the Creation?

Faith In The System

We find it quite disheartening that, as we have heard lately, a slight minority of the Honor Court and some
few faculty members think that self-scheduled exams will put an undue strain on the honor system.

Not that the current SGA proposal is perfect; in fact, it is somewhat too rule-oriented. However, these many rules will
probably wear down eventually and be made more convenient as soon as the system is tried and proven successful several
times. And it does indeed eliminate a system of exam scheduling which is invariably too concentrated or too spread out.

But the problem seen by most — at least among those who see a problem — is the possible effect
on the honor system. We find the little faith in the students and the honor system that this argument expresses
very hard to accept at best and completely disillusioning at worst. As far as the system goes, we repeat the
statement of one of the more enlightened honor court members: “If we refuse to put the Honor Code to the
test, then the only reason for having such a code is for show.”

We are shaken even to draw the implications regarding some faculty members’ faith in the students. A majority of the
Honor Court has formally expressed its approval of the proposed system. Moreover, similar systems — some even more loosely controlled
— have worked at many other schools and this evidence has been cited by the SGA before the faculty Educational
Policy Committee.

We concur with the SGA in arguing that seeking to avoid such situations as would be created by self-scheduled exams
“because they might require greater reliance on the pledges of the honor system” is “tacitly admitting that the honor system
is unworkable.” This is diametrically opposed to the faith expressed in the students by the Honor Code and the Code
of Responsibility. Hopefully, the Educational Policy Committee and then the full faculty will see its way clear to reaffirming its
faith in the students and the philosophy of a community effort towards education as expressed in the Code.

Yet Another?

SGA President Ran Coble’s ombudsman proposal is an interesting new way of effectively channeling student grievances into significant action. The
Ombudsman Panel, according to the plan now under consideration, will involve students, faculty, and members of the administration in an
effort to break through red tape and obtain the quickest possible action on student complaints and suggestions.

The proposal itself, however, contains a number of weaknesses which could severely hamper the effectiveness of the Ombudsman Panel. In
the first place, the panel’s size and composition may undermine its effectiveness. All is not always sweetness and light between
the various facets of the Davidson community, and it is not beyond the realm of possibility that the members of
the panel might disagree. Since the committee has four members and no chairman to cast a deciding vote, deadlock is
a very real possibility.

More importantly, the panel, even if it does agree, has no power to take decisive action. It can only make
recommendations, recommendations which still have to be taken through the “proper channels” to attain reality. Without strong support from above,
red tape would still be an important factor in the production of change on the campus. This being the case,
the Ombudsman Panel would not have fulfilled its promises and would become another of Davidson’s bogged-down committees.

It therefore seems that the present proposal contains grave impediments to its own success. Accepting the assumption that the Ombudsman
Panel might ultimately be a force in campus life, the question of the need for a student Senate would certainly
come up. However, it is not only the structure of the present student organizations that would be questioned with the
success of an Ombudsman Panel but also the structure of faculty, administrative, and trustee organizations. Definite room for change exists
in these areas, a fact which seems to have been recognized by the trustees when they recently established a committee
to review all forms of campus governance. Such a complete overhaul of the entire present system seems to be much
more desired than the sort of addition to already existing structure that would be entailed by the approval of Coble’s
plan. Students definitely need a way to cut the red tape now blocking change, but another committee-panel hardly seems to
be the answer.

But What Will They Think Of Your Play, Mr. Ravenel?

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Students Favor Tenure; Medical Policy Backed

To the Editor:

The recent report of the Academy for Educational Development recommends that Davidson College reduce the percentage of faculty on tenure.
We are concerned about the possibility that Davidson will deny tenure to highly qualified teachers in order to achieve the
recommended percentage as rapidly as possible. It should be recognized that the present situation is the result of a tenure
policy that has been in effect for years. To attempt to rectify the situation in a short period of time
by denying tenure to experienced and qualified teachers certainly is not the solution. The problem was created over a period
of time and it should be solved over a period of time.

An additional consideration is the recommendation that Davidson increase its student enrollment in the near future, which might occur as
part of the introduction of coeducation. This would provide an automatic and natural way to reduce the percentage of faculty
on tenure, as new faculty would have to be hired. Davidson should be more selective in conferring tenure than it
has in the past, but this does not mean it should let good men go merely in order to achieve
quickly a particular percentage.

Jone Jones ‘70
Allen M. Lewis ‘70
Ken Cool ‘70
Tom Hart ‘70
Doug Stott ‘70
Patrick B. Mullen ‘70
Hugh A. Baskin ‘70
Franklin B. Heiner ‘70
Stagg Newman ‘70

Davidson College

To the Editor:

I read with great concern the article appearing in last week's DAVIDSONIAN concerning records procedures for the college infirmary. Not
only do I believe that the professional duty of Dr. Davis would be severely restricted by a college policy that
requires indiscriminate reporting of medical records of individual students to the Dean of Students, Housing, and Chaplain's offices, but I
also consider this a violation of students’ legal rights. Though I can by no means claim a legal expertise, it
seems that ample precedent has been established to validate Dr. Davis’ position. To quote the Policy Guide of the American
Civil Liberties Union: “In their non-academic life students should be free from college control. In his private status aStudent should
not be subject to punitive measures by the college, unless the college can prove, in the course of a hearing
with due process safeguards, that he has acted in a way which adversely affects or seriously interferes with its normal
educational function or which injures or endangers the welfare of any of its other members. The infirmary is a college-offered
service to students—an essential service—but should not be confused in any way with the formal academic life of students. Further,
the argument that the college has reportedly never used medical information in a punitive fashion toward students is insufficient argument
to maintain that making such information available to record-keeping officials of the college is a necessary or a normal educational
function. The professional competence of the college physician must be relied upon as sufficient to determine when specific medical records
should be made known to college officials.

Steve Salyer ‘72
Davidson College

Baskin Cites Biblical Logic In CRC Decision

To the Editor:

Since the beginning of the controversy that brought the Ad Hoc Committee for the Protection of Students into being, a
metaphor has been running through my mind which it now seems appropriate to express. With regard to the incredible rule
on summer school credit for summer 1968, it seems that the students have caught the administration by Johnny hart with
their pants down, so to speak. We are reminded of old Noah who emerged from the ark with a desiccating
thirst. He planted a vineyard, and when the fruit of the vine was ready, he gratified himself to such an
extent that he was soon frolicking about naked. When his son saw him, he quickly got a blanket to cover
his exposed father. In light of the fact that someone sinned in the encounter, it was a question of whether
to punish the naked father or the son who had discovered him. In accordance with Old Testament logic, it was
the son who was punished. Compared to the Davidson situation, this parallel seems to be working out with the student
paying the penalty and Old Testament morality winning out once again.

Hugh A. Baskin ‘70
Davidson College

Synchatogoramania Percept

By PAUL E. ROWLAND

“Criticize, condemn, castigate, and callously crucify; that’s all you do with your column and that’s all you and your buddies
want to do to the country. Why don’t you guys do something constructive for a change? Why not be positive
instead of always approaching things negatively?”

Though variously phrased, that is the message friends and antagonists and people I've never met are delivering to me personally
and as a dissident student. Many of the things which concern me and my fellows are ugly, dirty, reprehensible, and
even evil. And dirty things have dirty names. The point is that we should call cancer cancer and try to
cure it.

If that sounds hyper-cynical, here are a few suggestions: Read, watch, and listen to the news and see if you
find the shape the world’s in delightful. Or, if you’re an anti-media man, check out Paul Harvey, Spiro Agnew, WBT
and WIST editorials, and see if you find them sources of positive delight and gaiety. Ride a bus and talk
to servicemen afraid they're about to be shipped to their deaths. See whether body counts bother you when they include
your friends. Try to get an apartment in Charlotte and when they ask whether you’re white, say no and see
how fast they hang up. Or... Well, pick your own experiment and see if you don’t find shockingly many Americans
intolerant and hostile to lifestyles even superficially different from their own. For example, the UNCC student body president recently spoke
to a Charlotte civic club on Cambodia, Kent State, and other things; his speech was followed by suggestions from the
audience that he leave the country if he didn’t like things as they are. As a reporter, I once observed
similar treatment of a Quaker group at an Augusta civic club luncheon. That same summer I heard the police department’s
public relations chief tell a similar group what good relations they had with the black community. The businessmen left their
lunch content that the local big kids knew their place and assured that riots were a Northern plague. They labor
under that illusion no more.

So don’t tell me to adopt the impercipient rhetoric of the political positivist. Synchatogoramania, the attachment of “happy” words to
neutral or even morally reprehensible ideas might make you feel better but it doesn’t do much toward righting wrongs.

Anderson Criticizes Dean; Sweatt Petitions McNair

To the Editor:

Dean Johnston was asked in an open meeting of the faculty Monday by another member of the college administration whether
it might not be a good idea to delay the faculty vote on the extended studies program until adequate publicity
could be given the proposal. The dean of faculty replied that he did think that adequate publicity had been given,
that he was dismayed at the low attendance of students at the faculty's open meeting, and that educational policy should
not be made in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Apparently, the dean hasn't been following his own committee proceedings too carefully, for a
committee member told me that students were not invited to the meeting when the Educational Policy Committee requested it. It
was to be an EPC meeting open to faculty. There was no publicity for the meeting, and the purpose of
the meeting was never stated to students. Some of the students present had come in without even knowing the topic
of discussion. To say that adequate publicity had been given is about as credible as the President's justification of the
Cambodian invasion. But the dean also said he did not think educational policy should be made in THE DAVIDSONIAN. I
wonder where he wants it made. In closed faculty meetings where a special priesthood deliberates over the issue of students’
fate? Sorry, Dr. Johnston, but it is our lives, our educations that are at stake. If anyone should know how
educational policy is formulated, students should. Your secret meetings, your mystical ways of developing educational policy through the priesthood of
faculty that you referred to on page one of the Blue Sky Report, have no place in a liberal arts
college. If you want to run a college that way, go to Bob Jones, or get a job with the
vice-president. They'll welcome you.

Franklin Anderson ‘70
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The following statement was sent to Governor Robert E. McNair of South Carolina after last Friday's sit-in at the Union.
Copies of this expression of sympathy were also sent to the president of the student body and to the student
newspaper at South Carolina.

“We are staging a one-hour sit-in here at Davidson this morning to emphasize our concern and our sympathy for students
at the University of South Carolina. We are appalled at the arrests of forty-one students during a sit-in at their
student union last week. We fail to see why those students were forcibly removed from their own student union and
then charged with trespass. Also, we are unable to accept Governor Robert E. McNair’s orders denying students the right of
peaceful assembly, a right granted by the first amendment of the Constitution of the United States of America. Further, we
condemn the action of Tuesday night in which more than one hundred students were forced to spend the night in
state prison following arrest and harassment by law enforcement officers. According to The Charlotte Observer of Thursday, May 14, ‘The
men were taken to the State Department of Corrections and, regardless of the length of their hair, shaved and then
sprayed with disinfectant and given prison uniforms.’ Particularly offensive is the fact that many of those students so treated were
uninvolved in the alleged disturbances, a grim reminder of the senseless slayings of four students at Kent State last week.
So we are staging our own sit-in here this morning to show officials in South Carolina that students have a
right to use their own student unions as forums for free expression. We hope that the presence of national guardsmen
and state police on their campus will not result in yet another senseless slaughter of students.”

An Associated Press story written last Friday quoted McNair's press secretary as having said that McNair had received over 100
letters and telegrams about the events described above—all endorsing McNair's actions and urging elimination of campus troublemakers. If you feel
differently about this, particularly if you are a South Carolinian, please make your feelings known to McNair.

David Sweatt ‘70
Davidson College

Hoyt Clarifies Notices; Williams Approves Play

To the Editor:

I wish to make it known that last week’s Open House publicity was prepared without the knowledge or consent of
the YMCA cabinet. It was an unfortunate error of judgment on my part to so conspicuously associate practices with the
YMCA. I trust that no confusion remains as to the origin of the promotional material.

Don Hoyt ‘70
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Perhaps you have heard about the mysterious non-play currently looking for a place to put itself on. It is in
difficulty apparently because it is felt to be blasphemous. This criticism is too strong. I admit that to parody Shakespeare
is in bad taste and maybe even irreverent. But blasphemous? Certainly not. In the context of miscellaneous crimes against poetry
which are committed around here year after year, this new one is surely tolerable. As for the plot, it is
an innocuous thing about an adolescent, his pimples, and his dad.

T. A. Williams
Davidson College
