HOME VIOLENCE BAD

Ed. Note: The following statement, “The Folly of Undisciplined Radicalism,” is taken from a letter mailed by U.S. Senator George
McGovern to student interns on August 31, 1970. The statement was delivered to the Senate on September 1, 1970.

The recent bombing of the Math Center at the University of Wisconsin, which claimed the life of a young researcher,
is one of a series of violent acts which underscore the folly of undisciplined radicalism. Bombings in various parts of
the country have come with alarming frequency in recent months. These tactics and other wild rhetoric that has afflicted some
revolutionary groups are apparently based on the notion that the ends justify the means. But the bombers, and other irresponsible
advocates of violence, threaten all that is decent in our society. They sometimes claim to be operating as anti-war agitators.
But we cannot end violence abroad by practicing it on each other here at home.

Indeed, the tactics of violence only ensure a self-defeating counter-reaction that leads not to peace and justice but to conflict
and repression. I regret that some radical youth leaders have lost contact with both reality and their own professed ideals.
Radical theoretician Tom Hayden’s recent remarks to the National Student Association Congress, as reported in the Washington Star of August
19, 1970, illustrate the point. In glorifying the recent kidnapping of a California judge which led to his death and
that of three other people, Hayden endorses the very barbarism that he professes to despise. In claiming that Panther leader
Huey Newton was released from prison because of the guerrilla “kidnappers of Uruguay and Brazil,” Hayden has gone beyond the
limits of either reason or honesty. Newton was released not because of Latin American kidnappers, but because an American court
gave him the beneficial protection of our judicial system, and found error in his trial.

The great weakness of many American radicals such as Hayden is that their vision is limited only to the weaknesses
of our society. Even though their own freedom depends on the American legal and political system, they use that freedom
to proclaim the worthlessness of the system that makes their protest possible. At the same time, they naively imagine that
the revolutionary society they advocate would measure up fully to the lofty ideals of its architects. Thus, the American radical
all too frequently wears one set of blinders that enables him to see only the disappointments and ugliness of our
society, while another set of blinders enables him to see only the virtues of the Utopian alternatives he reads about
in radical literature. Normally, he is comforted in his blindness by the affluence and relative security provided by the system
he condemns.

What I personally resent most about some American radicals is their willingness to jeopardize the chances of constructive change by
flaunting their own foolish and destructive tactics. They have invited the so-called hard hat reaction to the peace effort by
such antics as displaying Vietcong flags, disrupting courtrooms, shouting obscenities, and other obnoxious patterns of conduct. Instead of building a
broader base on the nearly universal hunger of man for peace, they seem determined to isolate the peace movement from
any kind of effective relationship with other human beings. This kind of reckless political action may be enjoyable for affluent
youth cut off from the real world, but it is a grave injustice to those who seek an end to
the war and misery. The irresponsible militant “doing his thing” at a peace rally or in a courtroom is undermining
those dedicated to the long, hard effort to influence public opinion toward peace and justice.

The Jerry Rubins and the Abbie Hoffmans have done all right for themselves doing their own thing. They have made
themselves into nationally known personalities complete with lucrative fees. But they have discredited in the public mind legitimate efforts for
peace and justice. I repudiate the tactics of the Jerry Rubins and the Abbie Hoffmans. And I repudiate the foolish
words of Tom Hayden, spoken in praise of the California court tragedy, and the Latin American kidnap killers. Their antics
betray the hundreds of thousands.of concerned people, young and old, who have worked and talked and walked for peace and
justice. They betray the thousands of people, young and old, who work for candidates dedicated to a better society. They
betray those in public life who have invested their lives in the cause of a more humane and peaceful society.
And, they betray their own hopes for a more harmonious world based on the brotherhood of man.

Academia Must Handle Alienation

This year's cause for concern seems to be the rise of anti-intellectualism in the land. From all segments of the
college, there are hints that the alienation of the academic community from the society in which it operates is more
than an extension of the town-gown controversies which have occurred all over the world for centuries.

The seriousness of the situation having been admitted, solutions are immediately forthcoming. All of them are based on the assumption
that what we have here, to paraphrase St. Luke, is a failure to communicate. Some argue that all that is
necessary for the amelioration of Davidson's problems with the alumni and society in general is to make sure that everyone
knows that the violence and destruction which they see on the evening news are not happening here. Others expand this
argument to include the reassertion of the importance of reason on the campus, Professor Jackson amending it to maintain that
the search for Truth at Davidson is in the public interest.

Although it is encouraging that the leadership of the college regards outside hostility as a problem worthy of note, the
proposals outlined above are totally inadequate to deal with it. Good public relations, however valuable they may be in our
never-ending efforts to beef up the Living Endowment, is of little consequence in solving the problem under consideration, for it
fails to cope with the principal cause of our difficulty: the presence on this campus, as on many others, of
overweening moral and intellectual arrogance.

There is a great deal of talk here, both in and out of class, about the problems facing Mankind. The
subjects of racism, poverty, war, and the ruination of the environment involve a great amount of energy. Bull sessions by
the score address these problems, if many answers are not forthcoming to the big questions. Yet for all the talk
which goes on here, precious little is accorded to men. It is much easier to cope with society as an
abstraction than it is to deal with it as it is: a melange of personalities, often coarse; opinions, usually unsophisticated;
and interests, always conflicting.

Those who are not fortunate enough to be members of the academic community are lacking in breadth of vision which
higher education can give, a natural consequence of that condition of life known as “making ends meet.” It would seem
to be an obligation of the educated man, given this situation, not only to assert the purity of reason in
his academic womb, but to seek to widen the horizons of those outside and to understand them. To assume that
the present generation of collegians, the faculty, and the student body understand what is good for them better than the
uneducated is just another form of arrogance.

The tired cliché about “making the system work” is one of the most revealing indicators of academic arrogance, for it
implies that the system only works if it produces the results we desire. But this attitude of giving democracy “one
more chance,” its “failure” bringing the withdrawal of the young, is not hard to understand when one considers that the
slow, painful, and not always rewarding task of consensus-building is hard work. Elitism is much easier and much more psychologically
satisfying.

The problem which the academic community has with the outside world cannot be solved institutionally, for it is the result
of the actions and attitudes of those within the community. The tragedy of the present alienation of the university is
not that it will draw some sort of reprisal from the outside, but that it will deprive society of talented
people willing to accept the frustrating, yet crucially important task of democratic leadership.

by ZACK MOBLEY
