eT (Staff photo by Davidson)

PENALTY? WHAT PENALTY? Wildcats booter Johnny Bruner fights it out with some William and Mary defenders in the Southern Conference championship game. Davidson won 3-2 for their first conference title.

Davidson Gambles Streak Against Mercer Tomorrow
By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

Davidson puts its 54-game winning streak in Johnson Gym on the line tomorrow night against Mercer University, a small school with a potentially tough team. Mercer, located in Macon, Georgia, suffered through a rugged schedule last season, finishing with an unimpressive 6-18 record. However, with first-year head coach Dwane Morrison at the reins, the Bears are looking for brighter things this year. They have three starters and nine lettermen returning from last year’s squad. Among the returnees are Bruce Gordy, who averaged better than 15 points a game, and Jim Graham, who scored at almost a 12 points per game clip. Marvin Bailey and Monnie Brabham, who snared 165 and 169 rebounds, respectively, are also veterans.

Morrison’s club has shown a tendency to play a deliberate type of game this year. In Mercer’s loss early in the season to Clemson, Davidson head coach Terry Holland called the Bears “a very patient team.” He said, “They play fine defense and on the other end of the court, they wait for the good shot.”

Holland's problem of injured players, specifically Bryan Adrian and Eric Minkin, appears to have an end in sight. “Adrian started running this week,” Holland commented, “so we'll be able to set a date for his return as soon as we see how he does.” “Minkin is ready anytime. He can play now in spots. We just want to make sure that we don’t get him reinjured. But he won't be at full speed for about two weeks.”

Seven Lettermen Return To Improve Mat Team
By PETER MICHAEL
Sports Writer

With seven returning lettermen, Davidson’s wrestling team is looking forward to a much-improved season. According to Coach Charles W. Parker, “We will definitely improve our record over last year (2-7). This should be one of our best years because we have lots of experience.”

Parker cites two freshmen as outstanding wrestlers. “Jim Purcell won his first two matches in the tournament after only two or three days of practice. He’s going to be a good one. Frank Shinn won the North Carolina championship in the heavyweight division last year. He should be very strong.”

Karlsson Named Player Of Year
By JOE EARLE
Asst. Sports Editor

According to the coaches of the Southern Conference, one of Davidson's exchange students deserves most of the credit for the Wildcats' first conference soccer title. Two weeks ago, the coaches elected Gudmundur Karlsson player of the year in Southern Conference soccer. Karlsson is attending Davidson under an Institute of International Education Association scholarship and will return to his home at Selfoss, Iceland at the end of the spring term.

Before the season, the soccer team anticipated a poor year, but Karlsson and two other key players turned things around. This is a big country with many resources and I think that in a few years, maybe ten, America will produce some of the best teams in the world.much money to game.” Soccer in Iceland is organized along the lines of Little League baseball, according to Karlsson, with groups of players limited by age and area. Karlsson said that in Iceland he played fullback but was transferred to the halfback position at Davidson. From this position, he scored eight goals for the Wildcats during the season.

Karlsson said he was favorably impressed with the other exchange students, Rainer Langenberg and Peter Hans, both Germans, who sparked the Wildcats to become a winning team, rolling up a 10-3-1 record and taking Davidson's first Southern Conference title by defeating William and Mary 3-2.

Karlsson said he has been playing the sport as long as he can remember. Several times his team has won the championship, but he has never before received an individual award. Although he is twenty years old, Karlsson has just graduated from a secondary school in Iceland and hopes to attend the university next year. He receives no academic credit for this year at Davidson.

“The players here have only played for two or three years. They are surprisingly good players, much better than I was led to believe. We have had soccer for a long time in Iceland, while it has only been here for six or eight years,” he went on.

Karlsson lists mountain climbing as one of his favorite pastimes.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

SPEND YOUR CHRISTMAS VACATION SKIING IN THE AUSTRIAN ALPS, DECEMBER 23 — JANUARY 7

Fly from New York with 40 other young people to join 50 European students in Mittersill, Austria. You'll spend two wonderful weeks of fun making friends from all over the world — skiing by day, enjoying discussions on world cultural and Christian issues, and other group activities in the evenings. The tour includes an excursion to Salzburg. You don’t have to know how to ski; free instructions will be provided.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone-376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The returning starting lettermen of the team are Rob Benton, Ken Dixon, Jeff Dumansky, Jack Jacobs, Frank Rader, and Ronnie Williams. Parker expects a great deal of help from the freshmen who round out the starting team. They are John Scanling, Greg Funk, Jim Purcell, and Frank Shinn. The remaining starting berth is being contested by Allen Tillman and Rusty Winchester.

Excellent years should come from Benton and Williams although both are out of action at present. Williams has just recovered from mononucleosis and Benton suffered an arm injury in last week’s N.C. State Wrestling Tournament. His injury will keep him out through the Christmas holidays.

Clothes ready for the holidays
Dry Cleaning & Shirt Laundry
Jackson Cleaners
Depot St.

For further information contact:
Bill Scott, Director
Word Travel International
1207 Stemmons Tower South
Dallas, Texas 75207