Davidaonian — Published Weekly By Davidson College Students DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1970 NUMBER TWENTY-TWO

ECOLOGY GROUP MAKES PLANS

Faculty Vote Rejects 24-Hour Op Students Petition SGA To Amend Constitution

By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

The faculty has voted down a proposal for student government to amend its constitution to allow 24-hour open dorms. The
question has arisen that if the dorm structure at present is not constructed to take such action, it may be
necessary to bring it into effect.

Franklin Jefferson, one of the petition’s sponsors, said, “We would like to open a discussion on the problem of privacy,
noise levels, and racks-like halls. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., and Dean of Faculty Frontis R. Johnston declined to
comment on the rationale for the faculty decision. These discussions must be the first step toward reality.”

Speaking to the students and townspeople of Davidson, former Secretary of State Dean Rusk said in his speech Tuesday night,
“The primary object of all governments is to create and sustain peace.” Rusk outlined a series of four guidelines which
need to be followed.

First, governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. Rusk noted that this is the most explosive
idea in our society. We must be concerned with our legislative and constitutional commitments. The question is, he said, “How
do you organize a peace?”

Second, agreements should be honored. According to Rusk, the U.S. is a member of 4,500 treaties. “Consequently,” he said, “we
can rely with more certainty on what other governments are going to do.”

Third, “we must live and let live.” Rusk related how he had asked an aide at one time during his
term of office to do some research. “In the last 400 crises, the United States had participated in only six.”

Fourth, a decision must be made as to whether the proposed action will bring peace. The former Secretary emphasized that
this is the most important question. “Influence of U.S. politics is the primary object of almost every government in the
world,” he said.

Rusk cautioned against the isolationism spreading here and in governments abroad. He cited individual arguments such as the U.S. withdrawal
from NATO which altogether result in “practical isolationism.”

Introducing another factor in the decision of foreign policy, Rusk affirmed that “we must organize for peace before World War
III occurs.” He advised, “All of us must be concerned about the frailties of humans.”

In order to bring some form of organization to foreign policy, Rusk revealed the enormous complexity and pace of forming
foreign policy. Each issue must be scrutinized from every angle, and innumerable questions must be answered, Rusk said. “Making foreign
policy is like a pilot going over a checklist,” he said. “But a sense of confusion is the first step
toward reality.”

Thus, we invite both faculty and students to the cafeteria area in the Union at 10 p.m. on Apr. 15
to begin dialogue.

This week a film of Davidson has been made for distribution to prospective applicants from high schools across America. See
details of the project on Page 6.

Former SGA President Peter Hobbie is urging Davidson students to fast for three days and nights in observance of the
April Vietnam War Moratorium. Participants in the fast will wear white armbands saying “peace fast,” and will be supported by
the Moratorium Committee. Hobbie expects more than 10,000 people to attend from all over the Eastern seaboard.

Local supporters of the Moratorium fast include Brigadier General Hugh Hester, U.S. Army (retired); Arthur Waskow, co-director of the Institute
for Policy Studies in Washington, D.C.; eight rock bands; and representatives from militant labor, black, and anti-war groups.

By STEPHEN ROADY
Associate Editor

Noting that College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and Dean of Faculty Frontis R. Johnston declined to comment on the
rationale for the faculty decision, these discussions must be the first step toward reality.BR. MacCormac has given the Honors College
his full support, financially as well as psychologically, MacCormac stated. "We must find better answers; we dare not find worse
ones."

Dean of the Faculty Francis W. Johnston announced Tuesday the appointment of four faculty members to the Honors College staff.
Robert L. Avinger of the Philosophy Department, and Locke White of the Physics Department will form the nucleus of next
year’s Honors College staff. Johnston, who will become Dean of the Honors College, will also serve as the Honors College’s
History professor.

In addition to these professors, Johnston hopes to secure one more faculty member for the Honors College next year, as
well as to provide a distinguished visiting professor. Since White will be on leave next year, Johnston says he will
attempt to secure another faculty member to serve in his place.

In a private interview, MacCormac voiced some of his feelings about the creative possibilities of the Honors College. He emphasized
the interdisciplinary nature of the College program, stating that there is still a need for another faculty member from the
social sciences. MacCormac said that the Honors College “is not meant to be a way to the top for the
gifted alone. It is meant to be a way to the top for the gifted and the imaginative.”

Approximately 425 students are expected to enroll in the Honors College. Of the 425, 38 are black. This number is
larger than in previous years. The increase is due to the number of students applying under the special programs at
Davidson, and the normal attrition rate.

MacCormac stressed the program’s great possibilities for promoting high-level research. He said that Davidson has accepted more blacks than it
ever has before, and he looks for a substantial rise in black enrollment next year.

In comparing applications to previous years, MacCormac stated that Davidson has received “well above” the usual number of applications. He
said that Davidson has accepted more blacks than it ever has before, and he looks for a substantial rise in
black enrollment next year.

MacCormac said that the question is this: “First, how imaginative will the Honors College be in utilizing the resources provided,
and second, how imaginative will the faculty be in working with these students?”

The more than thirty applicants for the Honors College will be interviewed over the next three weeks. Johnston plans to
have the student participants chosen by the first week in May.

A rock concert with speeches between performances will begin tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m. on the UNC campus at Chapel
Hill. Tom Paxton will hold a concert followed by a speech by Arthur Waskow. Sunday at 2 p.m. General Hester
will speak at 3:30 p.m. On both days, workshops will be held on civil disobedience, legal counseling, black-white relations within
the movement, draft counseling, the G.I. movement, war tax resistance, and women’s liberation.

Next weekend the annual rite of Spring Frolics will begin on the Davidson campus. Feature entertainment attraction will be the
hard rock band “Chicago” which will appear in concert Friday night at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium. At 10 p.m.
the folk festival will play in Morrison Room.

Social Chairman Stu Shelton described the folk-rock group as much like Blood, Sweat, and Tears.
