Page Eight October 16, 1970 (Staff photo by Davidson) A GRAB FOR MIKE Mikolayunas heads downfield with a Thompson pass.

Offense Scrapped In Bucknell Loss
A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

For the second consecutive week, David Fagg was a disappointed man. Despite playing a fine game, his Wildcat gridders were
defeated by Bucknell, 21-20, for their second straight loss.

Saturday's Davidson team showed a few new wrinkles. On offense, the formation was open. Using the Wishbone offense in the
first two games of the season, the ‘Cats were not able to move the ball. “It was by necessity that
we junked the Wishbone,” said Fagg. “The execution of the plays was giving us trouble. So we decided to open
our formation so that equal emphasis could be put on passing and running. In the Wishbone we were placing more
stress on the running game.”

With the new “look” on offense, Mike Mikolayunas has been moved out to a slot or flanker position. Therefore, he
will be running less and catching passes more. Using this new offense, Davidson dominated play in the first half against
Bucknell, but could get only seven points on the board. “We should have had two more scores by halftime,” Fagg
said. “One thing a team must always do is keep putting their opponent behind. When you get them down 7-0,
you have to keep going and get them down 14-0 and then 21-0. You can’t let them get away, or
it can catch up with you.”

The ‘Cat defense performed magnificently in the first half, “just like you draw it on the backboard,” commented Fagg. But
a change let Bucknell back in the game. Fagg cited a controversial pass interference in the second half against Davidson.

Once again Davidson was hit early in the game by injuries. Sean McCormick was hurt in the first series of
downs, and Hugh Dennis was injured later in the game. Against Trinity the week before, the Wildcats lost Jimmy Hardison
early in the game. “It was really a tough loss for these boys,” the disappointed Fagg said. “What a fine
game they played. But we're still unbeaten in the Southern Conference, and we're looking better all the time.”

By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

Under Head Coach Terry Holland, a tremendous conflict is now being waged in the Davidson gymnasium. Yesterday practice commenced for
this year’s Wildcat basketball squad. This year preparation will be different from any in Davidson's immediate past. Five scholarship players
have graduated, including Mike Maloy, Jerry Kroll, and Doug Cook. The result has been the opening of four starting positions,
and the chance for many non-scholarship men to make great contributions to this year's squad. “It’s going to be a
dog-eat-dog battle,” according to Holland.

Previous years have presented relatively new dilemmas with the starting five generally set. This year is an exception. The team
has not played with each other. “This year it is a matter of putting the team together, since these boys
have not played as much together,” Holland stated. “We will need lots of scrimmages and squad games.” There will also
be much time designated to fundamentals of ball handling, offense and defense, and conditioning.

Only four seniors are a part of the ‘70-71 Wildcats. They are Ron Stelzer, Duncan Postma, Billy Pierce, and Steve
Kirley. And overall the ‘Cats are a bit small.

SC Plans No
By ERNIE SHIPE
Sports Editor

(Second in a series)

Although the Southern Conference has made no immediate plans to alter membership policy or place limitations on athletic grants, Athletic
Director Tom Scott dispelled any notions that Davidson would drop out of the conference. When the Spencer Commission Reports were
made public, they reported that the Southern Conference was in such serious trouble, it must make some changes presumably in
membership and perhaps in policy, to survive.

The Commission recommended that Davidson should remain in the Southern Conference until the nature of the changes becomes evident. They
went on to suggest that Davidson should persuade the conference to adopt ceilings on subsidization that would permit Davidson to
compete successfully. If the conference failed to adopt such measures, the commission suggested that Davidson should actively investigate the feasibility
of competing with other institutions of academic quality comparable with Davidson’s.

An attempt at putting limitations on football scholarships failed last winter, when an attempt was made toChange the Southern Conference
constitution. Article 12 of the constitution states that two-thirds of all eligible delegates must vote in favor of making a
change in the constitution. The constitution makes no mention of limiting the number of grants a school gives in any
sport. Most major athletic conferences have ceilings on grants-in-aid. According to Tom Scott, the vote at the meeting was 4-3
in favor of changing the article. Five votes were needed to bring about constitutional change. Since the vote to get
by Article 12 failed, there was no way to set limitations on athletic scholarships. “Furman, Davidson, VMI, and The Citadel
voted for making the change with Richmond, William and Mary, and East Carolina opposed,” Scott explained. “All four schools agreed
they would push for a compromise ceiling of 75 football grants and then were unable to get this measure to
a vote.” The athletic director said that Davidson presently gives 52 football scholarships while the other three schools give in
the neighborhood of 60. Richmond gives close to 75. By setting a limit, it would prevent schools like Richmond from
upping their total toward 100 if a school like Davidson began to increase its athletic grants. “Another reason for limiting
the number of athletic grants is the cost involved,” stated Scott. “It costs us twice as much to give one
football scholarship as it costs some of these other schools.” According to Scott, Richmond and East Carolina have no desire
to be limited under the present proposal. William and Mary would seem to be the easiest to sway over to
Davidson’s side. Scott explained that William and Mary is in the process of reducing its number of scholarship holders from
90 to 75. “However, William and Mary doesn’t want to put any restraints on Richmond,” said Scott. The question of
limiting the number of scholarship recipients has affected attempts to expand conference membership. East Tennessee State, Chattanooga, and Appalachian have
expressed their desire to join the conference. Because these schools would favor limitations, they have been blocked from membership.

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

Remember the passing and receiving display put on by Mark Thompson and Rick Lyon in that junior varsity game against
Gardner-Webb last year? Those are only two of the present Wildcat starters who earned their positions through hard work on
the JV team. This year’s JV squad is composed of all varsity players who are not in a starting position,
according to offensive line coach Turnley Todd. Todd stated that the concept of the JV team was to increase the
level of experience for the nonstarters. “It gives the coaches a better chance to evaluate the performance of younger and
inexperienced players, and helps to prepare the guys for varsity competition,” he added. Last Friday the JV’s tangled with the
Western Carolina freshmen at Cullowhee. Although the ‘Cats were on the short end of a 26-6 score, Todd estimated that
the Davidson offense accumulated close to 500 total yards. The major weaknesses can be attributed to inexperience, as six intercepted
passes and two fumbles proved costly to the JV’s.

“We won't be able to dictate the tempo for a game as we did last year,” Holland quietly stated. “Each
time we take the court we are going to have to play the type of game we believe will win
for us, whether it be run and shoot or ball control.” Stelzer and Kirley, who started at times last year,
should definitely help the club this year. Then there is junior all-conference player Brian Adrain. Probably an All-American prospect, he
led the team in scoring last year. Additional help can be expected from 6'7" Eric Minkin, the tallest man on
the squad, Duncan Postma, along with Lester Strong. Outstanding sophomore prospects include John Pecorak, Joe Sutter, and Gordon Graham. The
Wildcats should once again have a strong team, though not as powerful as last year's team. They have seven big
weeks of practice before the opening game on Dec. 9. When Holland was asked which college player he would most
like to have on this year’s team, he immediately countered with “The biggest one I could find.”

WELCOME ALUMNI And Friends: For the most inexpensive dinners or suppers in town stop by for a chicken dinner. COLONEL
SANDERS’ RECIPE Kentucky Fried Chicken. 503 S. Broad Mooresville, N. C. Phone 664-1505
