ARGIR GROUP MAKING (Staff photo by Strand) ‘BEAUTIFUL MUSIC’ The Hungry d performers offer a new type of folk-rock music. The Davidsonian November 13, 1970 Page Three

Argir Produces Original Sound
A REVIEW By DON PARMAN

If you get to this week's Hungry d before the show starts, it will look like a lot of the Hungry d's that you have seen before. To look at the stage you will have to suspect that the Argir Group will be a lot like all of the other groups that you have heard at the Hungry d. Three or four guitars and a tambourine. When the Argir Group comes out to play, the similarity ends. The Union people bill them as one of the best groups that we have had at a Hungry d.

Education ‘Stifles’ Potential Teachers
By ALEC HOON Staff Writer

“The American educational system stifles those interested in teaching,” Leo McLaughlin told Davidson students on Tuesday, November 3rd. McLaughlin, who recently became Director of Freshman Studies at J. C. Smith University, criticized the length of time a student spends in the educational process, saying that the students, whom he termed “young adults,” were treated as “second-class citizens.” Focusing in on the black educational experience, he emphasized that “it will be a great day when black colleges stop imitating the mistakes that whites have made, and begin to show a real educational process.”

ESP Talks On Monday

Dr. J. B. Rhine, an authority on parapsychology, the study of ESP and related psychic phenomena, will give two talks on the subject Monday. Rhine will deliver both lectures in Hodson Hall, the first at 10 a.m. and the second at 8:15 p.m. A retired professor of parapsychology at Duke, Rhine now works for the Foundation for Research on the Nature of Man, where he heads the parapsychology branch. He is the originator and co-editor of the Journal of Parapsychology and has written a number of subjects on the subject. Rhine will be accompanied by his wife, also an expert in parapsychology, who will participate in her husband's formal presentation and in the discussion which will follow. Mrs. Rhine has also written on parapsychology, including two books, “ESP In Life and Lab” and “Hidden Channels of the Mind.” The lectures are sponsored by the Psychology Club.

These statements were part of the lecture that McLaughlin gave on the subject of the President's Commission on Campus Unrest, known as “The Scranton Report.” He used the introduction, second, and third chapters of the Scranton Report as a take-off point for giving his opinion of the American educational system today. The introduction was characterized as a plea for understanding. He said that we should examine our own fears as a solution to the situation. “Our problem might well be to find ways to use our fears for constructive purposes” in resolving the dilemma of student unrest, he stated.

Turning to the second chapter, he summarized what the Report found to be the causes of the unrest on campuses today. The primary cause, the Report indicated, was the formation of a new youth culture. The Commission added that the issues of race, the War, and personal freedoms were contributing factors to campus unrest. McLaughlin noted that one cause that the report rejected was that the disturbances were largely caused by outside agitators, which many people suspect. He stressed the fact that “much good can be done by more understanding... It can reduce the clashes and violence.”

“We must strive to enlarge our own perspective as we try to enlarge the perspective of others,” he said. An interesting point that McLaughlin mentioned was that the Report stated that those principally involved in campus disturbances and confrontations were the sons and daughters of affluent parents. He said that “students were trying to...live what their parents preached" and to avoid "the ‘good life of the suburbs’ which meant more time to the job, and less time to the family.” McLaughlin went on to say that the Commission stressed the importance of teaching. That the degrading attitude towards the profession of teaching must be altered was his strong conviction. “If one doesn't publish, the tendency to get fired is good at the higher educational level” was one of his barbed criticisms of the whole educational system. (As the black educational experience was his present concern at J.C. Smith University (a college primarily for blacks), he chose to conclude his talk with a few remarks on the third chapter of the Report which dealt specifically with the black student movement.

Quoting the Commission, he said “Black pride . . . and black survival are not idealistic (slogans) to black students. They give meaning to the black struggle.” Whites must, he said, try to understand the meaning of the black experience through love, since they are incapable of directly experiencing it. McLaughlin remarked that he had come to Smith University to “learn as much as to teach.” A brief question and answer period followed in which he affirmed his belief that commissions such as the Scranton Commission should continue to exist, even if they seemed to do little apparent good.

The group is named for leader Fred Argir, who combines with Betsy Bernard and David Kendrick to make beautiful music. The group plays original material, not the kind of stuff that you know and can sing along with back at your table. That's nice because they can sing it a lot better than you or I. Argir and Miss Bernard do the singing for all of the numbers, with Miss Bernard handling most of the solo work. She has a beautiful voice, not quite the same as Judy Collins’ but the similarity is there. Miss Bernard uses her voice as an instrument better than anyone since the Rotary Connection was here. If you're not completely engulfed in the sound of the group you can listen to and appreciate the words of the songs. All the notes are in the right places. Even without the drums, Kendrick’s bass play maintains the rhythm. The songs take you on the travels of the group across the country. From Boston to Alaska to Hibbing, Minnesota’s Dan the Dinosaur Man. Miss Bernard and Argir both have excellent voices for their solo work, and sound good together too. In the numbers that the two sing together her voice tends to dominate as Argir’s is a little more mellow. The group is fun to listen to when they play songs for fun like “Tutty Fruity” and “Salica Pill Rag.” Miss Bernard is without a doubt the best kazooist to hit Davidson since the invention of the instrument. Come out and listen tonight or tomorrow night in the Morrison Room; you'll like it.

SPEND YOUR CHRISTMAS VACATION SKIING IN THE AUSTRIAN ALPS, DECEMBER 23 — JANUARY 7

Fly from New York with 40 other young people to join 50 European students in Mittersill, Austria. You'll spend two wonderful weeks of fun making friends from all over the world — skiing by day, enjoying discussions on world cultural and Christian issues, and other group activities in the evenings. Tour includes an excursion to Salzburg. You don't have to know how to ski; free instructions will be provided. For further information contact: Bill Scott, Director Word Travel International 1207 Stemmons Tower South Dallas, Texas 75207