(Staff photos by Davidson)

THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA
Allen Lundy skippers at Lake Norman.

Whittle Counts On Sprinters As Davidson Opens Season

The Wildcats of Heath Whittle open their 1970 track season tomorrow as they entertain High Point at Richardson Field at
2 p.m.

By DON PARMAN
Sports Editor

“This is a good team, no doubt about that.” That's the way Davidson tennis coach Harry Fogleman sees his team
after a very successful tour of Florida, and that's the way a lot of other tennis coaches see it too.
After Davidson's match with the University of Cincinnati was cancelled, Davidson traveled south and won four straight, stopping Florida Atlantic,
Florida Southern, Tampa, and Jacksonville. Florida Atlantic came closest to the netters as they fell 5-4, although Davidson had the
match wrapped up with a 5-1 lead after the singles.

Despite several outstanding performances, Fogleman singled out the “trainers from the other schools” as the most valuable in Davidson’s success.
“We had to go to the trainer's room at every school just to be able to play,” Fogleman said. At
one point Davidson had four men sidelined with injuries.

Rain has been the thorn in the Wildcats’ side this season as four of their first nine matches were rained
out. In their only home match of the season, the team easily defeated Hope College 9-0, losing only 16 games.
Fogleman used a lineup with none of his top men, Randy Jones, Bobby Weaver, or David Koury.

“This is going to be one of our biggest and best teams,” Fogleman said. “The thing is to keep them
working and not think that they're too good. If we can beat Furman, George Washington, Presbyterian, Wake Forest, and Harvard,
we'll have a great team.”

Fogleman indicated a vast improvement over last year's team. “There is no comparison at all; last year we just had
an average college tennis team. Everything that could happen to a team happened to them. We've improved tremendously.”

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

Unsung Sailors To Host Davidson Home Regatta

By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

Probably the most overlooked intercollegiate sport at Davidson is sailing. The squad, now about 20 strong, is used to the
lack of the fans that other sports draw. “Sailing is not much of a spectator sport,” said sophomore team member
Allen Lundy, and fellow sophomore member Kelly McKee agreed. “Unless you can get near the action, you can't see much.”

Tomorrow the team sails in the biannual Davidson Invitation affair. Besides the Wildcats, Clemson, Duke, Georgia Tech, and Tennessee will
be in the regatta. Lundy was very optimistic in talking about the home regatta. “Since The Citadel will not be
here, I think we will win it,” he said.

Davidson is a member of the South Atlantic Sailing Association along with The Citadel, Clemson, Duke, Old Dominion, South Carolina,
Virginia, and the College of Charleston. Georgia Tech and Tennessee will soon become members. The Citadel is the outstanding team
in most of the conference.

There are two sailing seasons each year, one in the fall and one in the spring. Each team in the
conference hosts one regatta each season. However, the top teams also receive invitations to regattas hosted by colleges in other
conferences. The Citadel is at such a regatta this weekend.

So far this spring season, the ‘Cats have done well, finishing second behind Clemson in the University of South Carolina
Invitational. “We're looking forward to getting another chance at them this weekend,” said McKee.

Since sailing is an unfamiliar sport to most people, McKee and Lundy tried to explain the basics. “There are two
men on each boat, one skipper and one crew,” said McKee. “The crew really does what the skipper tells him
to do. Among other things, he watches for other ships, times starts for the skipper, and is responsible for the
smaller of the two sails, the jib sail. The large sail is the main sail.”

The skipper is the most important man on the sailboat. It is up to him to run the race. Lundy
emphasized the importance of tactics. “The skipper has to be able to do so many things. Since all the boats
are the same, a race doesn't depend on who has the fastest one, but which skipper can sail his boat
with the most skill. He has to be able to anticipate changes in the wind, get a good start, and
position his boat so that he can make the rules of right of way work to his advantage. Winning is
almost completely dependent on the skill of the skipper.”

Last year, Dr. Hallam Walker served as coach, but this year he is in France. To add to the leadership
problems of the sailing team, Roger Powell, the commodore of the club, is in Greece this term. John Moore, a
junior, has assumed leadership this spring season. Moore, James Lee, Dan Johnston, and freshman Jimmy Hunter are among the most
outstanding skippers on this year's club and only Lee will graduate. However, Johnston will be spending next year abroad in
the JYA program, so two valuable team members will be gone next season.

However, the sailing team is optimistic in looking to future seasons. Lundy said, “Since each season we have only one
home regatta, there is a great deal of road expense. We really need a sailing clubhouse so our equipment wouldn't
be stored with the P.E. equipment. We also need a sailing coach. I hope we can get more help from
the college in the future.”

Smith Leaves For ‘Cat Coaching Staff Adds Campagna

Davidson football went through another week of changes this week as the Wildcats added a new coach, passedLost a veteran
player and saw former head coach Homer Smith off to his new position at the University of the Pacific. The
newest addition to the Wildcat staff is Willie Campagna, who comes to Davidson from Charlotte Catholic by way of Albemarle
Senior High. Campagna is a Catawba College graduate and has earned his degree in physical education and business administration. As
a high school coach, Campagna compiled a 71-32 mark. Under Davidson head coach Dave Fagg, he will handle the offensive
ends and backs. "I hope to be an important part of the program and I'm really looking forward to helping
the program be a success."

The 'Cats' defensive unit received a blow earlier this week when end Bill Reeves dropped out of school. Reeves saw
considerable action last fall and started several games. Smith was back on campus earlier this week while helping compile filmed
highlights of Davidson's past season, the best in Davidson history. Smith said that he was looking forward to building up
the football program at Pacific where the biggest challenge is conference rival San Diego State. "I'm happy at Pacific," Smith
said. "The boys are a new group very eager to win."

Plans for next fall's schedule continue as Davidson has rescheduled its home game with East Carolina on November 20. "I'm
quite excited."

Shepherd Parlays ERA Into Two Wildcat Wins
By BILLY COBB
Sports Writer

Despite rain and an unsuccessful trip through Florida and Georgia last week, Davidson's Wade Shepherd has been a ray of
sunshine for baseball coach Tom Stevens. Shepherd, a junior, has compiled a 2-1 mark with a 0.00 earned run average
to account for both of the Wildcats’ wins against four losses. Shepherd's only loss came at the hands of Florida
Southern when errors gave Southern an unearned run and a 1-0 win. Shepherd avenged his setback with a three-hitter to
stop Armstrong State 7-1. His other victory came over Pfeiffer in a 3-1 game before the spring break. Coach Tom
Stevens credits Shepherd’s early success to the fact that he has mastered the control problems which plagued him last year.

Stevens sees prospects as good for the Wildcats to recapture the Southern Conference title that they lost last year for
the first time in five years. "Furman, George Washington, and The Citadel all have good teams returning, but I think
we can win the tournament." The tournament will be held on the Davidson courts April 30, May 1, and May
2.

All-Southern Conference outfielder Gordon Slade has gotten off to a slow start and has a .261 batting average. Stevens said,
"I expect that Gordon will come on strong now that the weather is getting warmer." According to Stevens, Slade's troubles
are symptomatic of the entire team. "The biggest disappointment so far this spring has been our hitting. We have just
not been able to produce enough runs. The boys haven't worked together much since exams, so I expect our hitting
to come around with more practice," Stevens commented.

The trip to Florida was marred with three rainouts and losses to Southern twice and Jacksonville in Wednesday's doubleheader. Oberlin
was also rained out.

Two freshmen have earned starting berths this spring. Lynn Wagner, at first base, is the team's leading hitter with a
.272 average. Bick Halligan opens at second base. Jack Latimer is gaining confidence at shortstop according to Stevens.

CHARLOTTE COLISEUM
TUES, NITE APR. 7th @ 8 PM
HIT ATTRACTIONS, INC. PROUDLY PRESENT IN CONCERT - IN PERSON
LED ZEPPELIN
"Whole Lotta Love"
"Good Times, Bad Times"
"Livin' Lovin’ Maid"
No. 1 Album In the Country "Led Zeppelin I"
SEE THEM PERFORM A FULL TWO HOUR CONCERT
MAKING THEIR 1st SOUTHERN APPEARANCE
TICKETS: SPECIAL VIP FRONT ORCH. SEATS $7.00 Limited No. Available
TICKETS ON SALE MAIL ORDER ONLY TO: P.O. Box 682, Charlotte 28201. Don’t Wait!
$6.00 - $5.00 - $4.00
Enclose Stamped Self Addressed Envelope For LED ZEPPELIN CONCERT. Order Best Seats Now

We Want You To Join Our Church As An Ordained Minister And Have The Rank Of Doctor of Divinity
We are a non-structured faith, undenominational with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Our fast-growing church is actively seeking new ministers
who believe what we believe. All men are entitled to their own convictions; to seek truth their own way, whatever
it may be, no questions asked. As a minister of the church, you may:
1. Start your own church and apply for exemption from property and other taxes.
2. Perform marriages, baptisms, funerals, and all other ministerial functions.
3. Enjoy reduced rates from some modes of transportation, some theaters, stores, hotels, etc.
4. Seek draft exemption as one of our working missionaries. We tell you how.
Enclose a free will donation for the Minister's credentials and license. We also issue Doctor of Divinity Degrees. We are
State Chartered and your ordination is recognized in all 50 states and most foreign countries.
FREE LIFE CHURCH
BOX 4039, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33023

The Davidsonian
April 3, 1970
Page Three

THE EAGLE OF THE SEA
Davidson sailors practice their craft.

Position for Norfolk, Virginia. According to Sports Information Director Emil Parker, the move was “so we can make money.” A
proposed eleventh game with Appalachian State in Charlotte was dropped when it was discovered that playing the Apps, a college
division team, would drop Davidson back into the college division from the university division.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Wherrena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 376-2576

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

FINAL WINTER CLEARANCE AT THE RED HANGER
ALL WINTER SPORT COATS 1/2 Price
SWEATERS 1/2 Price
GROUP OF SHOES 1/2 Price
NOW IN PROGRESS
THE RED HANGER
DAVIDSON, N.C.
