After The Sky Divers, Kiddies, We'll Have Some Cardy Tricks...

LETTERS

BOBBY ALLEN
She Rauvidsantar
October 16, 1970
Page Five

Hollins Hassles

Reactions to us have been interesting. I mentioned some of them last time ("Don’t you feel strange here?"). What I'd really like to know are the uncommunicated mental reactions behind some of the verbal responses. What do they think, those who now know we're here for the duration but who wonder. I have my guesses.

Mental reaction: "There go those exchange students. Why in the world would anyone want to leave their own school to be one of nine boys at an all-girls school? They must be real losers. I guess they figure out of 1,000 girls there's bound to be some..."

Verbal reaction: "Hello" (coldly).

Mental reaction: "What are those guys trying to prove? They think they’re cashing in on a good thing. They know that girls start climbing the walls on Thursday nights too."

Verbal reaction: none.

The friendly smiles and greetings I frankly don't try to analyze. It's enough for me to accept them at face value.

The administration's reaction to us officially has been, "The president and the other members of the administration join me in expressing the hope that this will be a personally satisfying and educationally rewarding experience." (In a letter from John P. Wheeler Jr., Dean of the College.) Unofficially, but quite clearly, the reaction has been, "What the hell do we do with these guys?"

Our real rub with the administration has been over social regulations. Preliminary information about restrictions on us was nebulous.

Edmunds, Clodfelter Defend Story

To the Editor:

In this rather brief comment, we wish to discuss the recent attacks on THE DAVIDSONIAN, specifically those launched by Richard C. Burts Jr., Dean of Students. It is our contention that his objections to "unethical journalism" are unfounded and, therefore, irresponsible.

Just a month ago, we attended a conference in Charlotte organized by President Spencer. Also there were several trustees, student leaders (including the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and an associate editor), college administrators, a few of the faculty, and Burts. One of the topics of discussion was the present article in the "Code of Responsibility" dealing with drugs. Dr. John Kelton was the first to mention the proposed change of the Code. At that time, Burts made no attempt to suppress the Student Life Committee recommendation. It is also important to note that Kelton is not a member of the said committee, and one wonders where he obtained a copy of a report meant only for the eyes of President Spencer.

In effect, the possibility of discontinuing the enforcement of drug laws entered the public domain, for clearly the meeting of some forty members of the Davidson College community was considered an open forum. Based on these observations, we believe...

Irate Reader Broils McLean

To the Editor:

For the past year, the reputation of THE DAVIDSONIAN has undergone serious, if not irreparable damage, due to the unscrupulous mechanisms of one of its staff members, John McLean. Last week an article run on the front page of the paper did its (yellow) journalistic best to create a martyr out of Mr. McLean. In the article, Dean Burts was quoted denouncing the "unethical tactics" McLean incorporated by leaking undisclosed information from a Student Life Committee report concerning drugs. To read the article, one naturally empathizes with the plight of the beleaguered Mr. McLean. The boy versus the ogre. David against Goliath. Well, this was obviously the effect desired... by Mr. McLean. Although the byline reported Steve Cross as author, the information flowed from the pen of McLean himself.

What was most startling of all is that, evidently, the entire DAVIDSONIAN staff was aware of this maneuver. That THE DAVIDSONIAN would color an article on an issue is a situation with which we have learned to live. But that it would condone McLean's action in creating a martyr of himself in the eyes of the college community on a matter of highly questionable taste is intolerable. To coin one of Mr. McLean's clever colloquialisms, my information comes from a very reliable "undisclosed source" whose name, I, too, would refuse to reveal to a twelve-man jury. This example seems to be typical. What also is apparently condoned among the staff members is the manner in which McLean has continuously usurped authority from those in whom this jurisdiction is vested, by title or talents.

I really don't know if Mr. McLean is running for editor, president, or king, but when power is held by one of such unscrupulous methods, the entire college community is apt to suffer.

Raymond L. Lassiter '73
Davidson CollegeThat THE DAVIDSONIAN was well within its rights as an information medium when it reported the decision of the Student Life Committee. One final point: For a majority of Davidson students, the undisputed article not only reported the issue but also announced it. Until that moment, secrecy had been the watchword, so to speak, of the SLC, in that regrettably few were aware of the committee's actions. This is unjustifiable in view of the fact that the SLC is a joint student-faculty committee, not to mention the significance of such an amendment of the Code. We find it strange, indeed, that Dean Burts would not consider student enlightenment concerning a major adjustment in Davidson policy important. In light of the imminent gathering of trustees here at Davidson, one wishes to believe that this is not the attitude of the Dean. Unfortunately, little room remains for such an opinion. It is the lack of public discussion which Dean Burts seems to condone that was responsible for much of the confusion and mistakes surrounding last year’s drug fiasco. THE DAVIDSONIAN was only performing a function which long ago should have been attended to by Dean Burts and the committee. In truth, had THE DAVIDSONIAN not printed the story, it would have been derelict in its responsibility to the entire college community to keep it informed of this major decision.

Bob Edmunds ‘73
Danny Clodfelter ‘72
Davidson College

Which to us meant there weren't to be any rules. After we had been operating under this premise for about a week, some Hollins girl noticed the discrepancy between our rather autonomous existence and the relatively regulated situation on campus—specifically no alcohol or men in the rooms. We were shortly invited to a little get-together at the Dean's house, complete with beer and pretzels, to “jointly work out any points of misunderstanding about our status." Three days later, two stone tablets were delivered to our house, upon which was written, “Thou shalt not drink," and “Thou shalt not have girls in thy rooms." Thus spake the administration.

Even more in a quandary about what to do about us is the security force. In addition to Cop Linker’s duties (locking doors, dispensing tickets, and generally being around), the Rent-A-Cops here have taken it upon themselves to protect and defend the honor and chastity of 1,000 girls. Not covered by the regulations book, we have been regarded as some hostile, alien element which, despite efforts to the contrary, refuses to go away. I don't really blame the cops for hassling us or probably suspecting us of being drug addicts—they (or anyone else here for that matter) have never dealt with our “situation” before.

Housing Crisis Attacked; Mess Blamed On Burney

To the Editor:

Last week the Residence Hall Association decided to ask Mrs. Nicholls to end the tradition of Belk and Richardson Hall students leaving their rooms for a major weekend. This weekend Davidson students will reap the “benefits”: the inconvenience of traveling some distance in town to get the girl to her temporary home, if she is lucky enough to have a place to stay at all!

A quick glance at the situation will show how ridiculous this move was. Without doubt, most students in the affected dorms, including myself, see the policy of having to move out for two days bothersome. Yet this is a small inconvenience compared to the pains many students have gone through this week to find housing for their dates. The list of townspeople who keep girls was exhausted last Monday. I dare say many students will still have no place for their dates as of Friday. The town of Davidson is just not that big. Many townspeople that really have no desire will be pressured into keeping girls. They will do it only for the sake of the college. Those students lucky enough to get a place for their dates, but who don’t have cars, will have added problems: the possibility of having to walk a mile or more to “pick up” their dates. God help them if it rains!

The RHA took its action upon receiving a petition of 250 names, some of whom didn't realize the impact of their signatures. This number is less than half the number of students rooming in Belk and Richardson. Furthermore, no student referendum was called for. Mrs. Nicholls can't be blamed. It falls directly on Cecil Burney and Co. I suggest they wake up and get with it! An immediate referendum is in order with only Belk and Richardson voting. The RHA would abide by the outcome. I am confident that this will be the last weekend with serious housing problems. Many students are going to find out how small the inconvenience of moving out really is.

Tom Rogers ‘71
Davidson College