Page Two, October 9, 1970

Houses. | By RICHARD WILSON Asst. Managing Editor

Interfraternity Council members expressed differing opinions concerning the possible institution of nonselective eating clubs at Davidson, at a meeting with
College president, Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Tuesday.

Speaking briefly at the outset of the meeting, Spencer stated that he was only interested in the principle of nonselectivity
rather than the mechanics of a particular proposal. He said his recommendation to the trustees during their meeting next Thursday
and Friday would concern the idea of nonselective eating clubs. "The responsibility for working out the mechanics will come back
to the campus," he said.

The meeting then proceeded with a collage of views and opinions ranging from willing acceptance to outright rejection of Spencer’s
proposal. Some students did voice objections about the college trying to legislate the social life of the students. Spencer replied
by saying that he felt the college should provide a social system in which all the students can participate.

A fraternity president asked Spencer what the college would say about fraternities going off campus. Spencer replied, "I don't know."

Pikas Stun Fraternities, Open Doors

The Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity stole a march on the fraternity reform movement Tuesday by opening its facilities to
the use of non-member students at large. Fraternity President Gary Cash announced that any student who wished to attend could
come to the house for meals, parties, and recreation on a nonselective basis. "We are trying to phase into the
coming trend," Cash said.

The Pikas’ open invitation does not technically offer fraternity membership, since that would violate rules of the national chapter. But
it offers to non-members all privileges except the right to vote in fraternity meetings. Any student who wishes membership may
board and party with the Pikas, paying according to one of several financial arrangements. "We will be on a money
for services rendered basis," Cash said. Those invited will pay for board and parties a week at a time, he
added.

Founded in 1869, Davidson’s second oldest fraternity, the Pikas are also one of Davidson’s most liberal, according to presidential assistant
Peter H. Hobbie. "I expected that if a move comes in response to Spencer’s plan, it would come from a
liberal group like this one," Hobbie said.

The Pikas’ open invitation is expected to allow them to lower each member’s board bill, thus giving them a competitive
advantage among other fraternities.

Finis

Beneficial Staff

Associate Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
JOHN McLEAN
RUSS MERRITT
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH
TOM VERNON

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
DON PARMAN

Sports Editor:
ERNIE SHIPE

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
SCOTT DAVIDSON

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Assistant Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS
DARYL WILLIAMS

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
BOB STRAND

Contributors this week:
Alec Hoon, Jeff Allender, Doug Brown, Windy March, Joe Earle, and Hal Canter.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

The idea of permanent random assignment of freshmen to the fraternities, proposed by the Student Life report, created a stir
among the fraternity members. Many felt freshmen should have a choice in deciding to which eating club they would like
to belong. Other students raised the question of timing. "This year's freshmen came here under the impression that they could
join a fraternity," said one student. "Now if we change the system, it seems as though we're pulling the rug
out from under them."

Another student countered this argument by saying, "If we do it now, we will have three classes of guys in
fraternities to help make the change."

The idea of 100% bidding procedures was mentioned, but Spencer questioned whether national fraternities would go along with this. A
fraternity president suggested keeping six fraternities on campus and opening up the other...houses as non-selective eating clubs. Spencer raised the
problem, “Who will decide who stays and who does not?” One student proposed that freshmen be randomly assigned to various
houses where they would remain for two or three months. By that time, it was hoped they would have become
familiar with the various fraternities. He then would have the opportunity to change to another if he preferred. (Staff photo
by Davidson)

PRACTICING FOR THE BIG WEEKEND
Homecoming is just a week away.

Art Historian Schedules Visit
H. W. Janson, author of the textbook “History of Art” used by the Fine Arts Department and a noted art
historian, will deliver Reynolds Lectures at Davidson next Tuesday through Thursday. Janson, professor of fine arts at New York University
and chairman of the department of fine arts of its Washington Square College, will give two formal lectures, both at
8 p.m. in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. He will speak Tuesday on “Change” and Thursday on
“Style and Value.” He will also discuss modern art, Donatello, Renaissance art, Middle Eastern art, and other topics with several
art classes.

Janson was educated at German universities and later at Harvard. After teaching at several institutions for a few years each,
he joined the faculty of NYU in 1949. He is the only art historian to have twice received the highest
award of the College Art Association for “the most distinguished work of art historical scholarship in the U.S. and Canada,”
in 1952 for “Apes and Ape Lore in the Middle Ages” and in 1957 for “The Sculpture of Donatello.” But
he is probably best known for his popular textbook, “History of Art,” of which more than a million copies have
been sold.

Burts (Continued from Page One)
“by a jury of twelve men.” He added it was still a matter of controversy whether reporters could be forced
to reveal sources under North Carolina laws. Burts declined to be quoted with some of his stronger attacks on the
newspaper, but sources close to the SLC said on Monday afternoon he warned SLC members against releasing information before officials
wanted it to be published.

The article in question reported yet-to-be-released SLC recommendations that the college stop active enforcement of its rules against drugs. The
SLC was reported to have suggested that the college use counseling rather than punishments to discourage drug use. Burts said
the Code clause against drug possession remains in effect. “Everyone has a responsibility to report violations,” he said. “There are
not good guys and bad guys,” he added. “We are all on the same side.” Burts noted that “the students
themselves” voted to approve the Code.

Students
ARA Slater food service has scheduled a food evaluation survey to be conducted at the Davidson cafeteria next Tuesday evening.
The purpose of the survey, according to cafeteria manager Klaus Kleeberg, is to determine the type of food preferred by
the students eating in the Union. According to Kleeberg, the evaluation sheets will be given to all boarding students, those
with meal tickets. Students who do not presently hold meal tickets will not be allowed to take part in the
evaluation.

To Choose Menu
The evaluation sheets are composed largely of preferential listings concerning types of meals desired by the students. Over 25 possible
selections, to be rated as “like,” “don’t like,” or “don’t know,” are listed for students to evaluate. The evaluations will
be scanned by a computer, and the results of each individual Slater food service operation will be returned to the
respective manager for help in making out menus.

“This service has been conducted by Slater for several years now,” Kleeberg said. “It is very worthwhile since it helps
the cafeteria manager determine what foods the students want to eat.” Kleeberg said that the results of the evaluation are
“followed religiously. We try to make at least two heavily preferred dishes available at every meal.” The survey will be
conducted at the evening meal Tuesday night, Kleeberg said. “The sooner we have the evaluations, the sooner we will be
able to make the menu what the students want.”
