Holland Sees ‘Potentially Best Ever’ Freshman Team

By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

If things go as expected, next year’s freshman basketball team could be the best in Davidson's history. Coach Terry Holland
and his assistants have already obtained three top prospects, have signed two others who only await the approval of the
admissions office, and have a sixth player virtually signed.

The first cager to join the Wildcats was T. J. Pecorak, whose brother John started for this year’s freshmen. Pecorak,
who hailed from Fairfax, Virginia High School, is a 6-6 forward. He was the first from his high school to
top the 1,000-point mark. An excellent shooter, he averaged 25 points per game his senior year, and yet took only
16 shots per game. Besides shooting almost 60% from the field, he also averaged 14 rebounds and five assists each
outing. Pecorak, who signed on February 18, chose Davidson from a list of over 100 other schools including Tennessee, Georgia,
Florida, Virginia Tech, North Carolina State, and Niagara.

6-5 forward John Falconi was the second signee for Coach Holland this year. He is from the Bronx and played
high school basketball at Iona Prep School in New Rochelle, New York. A light forward at 188 lbs., Falconi nevertheless
made the All-New York City team, a distinction attained in past years by such Davidson standouts as Mike Maloy and
Bryan Adrian.

The third prospect who has signed with the Wildcats and has been accepted is Dave Crawford. In Crawford, who is
from South Hill, Virginia, Holland found the big man that Davidson has been lacking for several years. He will be
one of the biggest men ever to play basketball here, standing 6-10 and weighing 240. “Crawford has the potential to
be a great player,” said Holland, “and because of his size, he could make next year’s freshman team the best
ever here.”

Two other prep stars have signed with the Wildcats and need only be accepted by the admissions office, which Holland
believes is a certainty. Both prospects are fine students with good college board scores. Due to the present uncertainty of
their status with the admissions board, no names can be revealed, but Holland believes that the announcement of their admittance
is forthcoming. Both of the signees are forwards. One is a 6-7 Washington, D.C. product, and the other, a 6-5
Boston product, was one of the most outstanding high school cagers in New England.

The unsigned prospect could be the key to the freshman squad next year. A Dave Moser-type player, said Holland, he
would be the play-maker and enable the team to use the one guard offense employed by the nationally ranked Davidson
teams. A 6-0 guard from New York, he played for Archbishop Molloy High School which produced Adrian. “As for overall
talent, this will be the best freshman team ever provided the New York guard comes,” said Holland. The guard has
narrowed his choice down to Davidson and Georgia, but is leaning heavily toward Davidson and has assured Holland that he
will sign soon. If he decides to go to Georgia, the freshman picture would be different. A two guard offense
would have to be used, with Pecorak, Falconi, and one or both of the two other signees playing that position.
An interesting development could occur if the guard prospect says no to Holland since one of the signees who is
awaiting admissions approval and who would be a possible guard is 6-7. However, Holland is almost certain that the guard
will sign. If that is the case, next year's freshman squad could have fans forgetting about the 16-0 team of
a few years back.

PROBLEMS PLAGUE CURRENT PLAN

The Davidsonian
May 15, 1979

Page 5

Intramural Council Considers Revisions To Maintain Competition, Participation

By DON PARMAN
Sports Editor

“The intramural program affords an opportunity for all students of Davidson College to participate voluntarily in competitive sports of their
own choosing.” This is the catalogue statement on athletic competition for the great non-intercollegiate mass at Davidson. Just what the
role of the intramural program should play on the college campus is the question which the intramural Athletic Council is
now facing. In the light of dissatisfaction with the current IMAC format, the council met Tuesday. Plans were made for
sweeping changes for next year’s competition and the background for the necessary constitutional changes was delineated. A committee is preparing
the constitutional amendments for next week’s meeting for the council's approval.

According to the program’s director, Sterling Martin, there were several considerations which prompted the move. “I felt that there were
instances where the competition was getting a little too competitive. I think some people were perhaps being overlooked as the
program had stood.” According to Martin, the primary difficulty in organizing the intramural competition is making it competitive enough to
stimulate interest without sacrificing as full of participation as possible. The new changes, being written into the constitution by council
members Bill Berry and Jim Wright, are aimed at upgrading the freshman program. Under the new plan, there will be
five freshman teams, each representing halls. Along with the existing 13 IMAC teams, they will form two divisions, each with
nine teams. Inside the division, there will be round robin competition with the top four finishers in each division playing
in a tournament to determine the league champion. Each division will be determined by seedings decided on by the fraternity
teams’ performance the previous year. “We hope that this will give a little incentive to carry the particular fraternity’s program
from year to year,” said Martin.

Martin and Berry both emphasized that the changes would make the IMAC more amateur in nature. “Any athlete who has
ever lettered in a sport will be ineligible in its IMAC counterpart,” Martin explained. “In addition, if a boy is
participating in a sport of any kind he is ineligible for the intramural program. We don't feel that IMAC is
designed to be an outlet for these athletes with particular talents who have already demonstrated a proficiency in their sport.
This will work a hardship in some cases, but it’s a fairer, non-super athlete approach.”

The freshman stand to gain the most from the new organization. Martin and Berry both pointed out weaknesses in the
past freshman program and indicated that the freshman stand to gain tremendously from the new program. “There is more incentive
in playing against the upperclassmen,” Martin said. Martin believes that the new system and more emphasis on individual sports championships
may undercut the over-competitive nature which has existed in some cases. “Our current overall point system will not relate under
the new system. This may even be a chance to do away with it. With the emphasis on the individual
sports we hope to maintain the interest of teams that are generally out of the running by the time mid-season
rolls around.”

Berry stated, “I think that we can work out a system for an overall trophy, but I think that the
individual sports championships can be made more important than they are now.” Berry indicated that the new system will leave
the way open to establish B leagues if there are enough players. “We would set them up differently than last
year so that you...could move up to the A league at least once.” Martin added, “Doing so would take some
of the pressure off of the overall trophy competition and help win the all-sports championship.” Martin indicated he would like
to see the program head in a more formal direction, “That way, the fraternity individuals could compete more in- formally.”

Pikas Keep Overall Lead; Sigs Win Volleyball Crown

With the conclusion of the opening season, the Pikas continue to cling to their slender overall IMAC lead. The Sigs
demonstrated their superiority in volleyball as they finished the campaign unbeaten with a 12-0 slate. Their championship brought them within
87 points of the Pikas and 69 points ahead of the third-place Delts as competition starts for the second season.
The Pikas fell only to the Sigs as they rolled to an 11-1 record, followed by the Delts at 10-2.
Once past the three top teams, the balance of the league was apparent as only three wins separated fourth from
tenth place. Finishing in a three-way tie for the number four spot were the SPE's, the KA's, and the ATO's.
The Nu's were a step farther back with an even 6-6 record. The Independents captured the eighth spot with a
5-7 mark, while the Gamms and the Sigma Chi's finished tied at 4-8. The Betas, 3-9, the SAE’s, 1-11, and
the Pi Kapps, 0-12, rounded out the competition.

The Delts have recovered a little of the ground they lost to the Pikas in volleyball with an early win
to take over first place in the softball competition. On Tuesday afternoon, the Delts won the confrontation between the two
leaders with two runs in the eighth to win 7-5. Leading the hitting attack for the Delts was sophomore Greg
Sikes with three key base hits.

Brighter Future As Cats End Disappointing Year

For what he hopes will be the last time, Davidson baseball coach Tom Stevens concluded the season saying, “Wait for
next year.” The past year wasn't one of the poorest in Davidson history, but Stevens was far from satisfied with
the performance his club made in posting a 10-15 record. “I was disappointed in our overall performance this year. I
thought we'd play at least .500 ball this year. We were a lot better than last year even if we
didn’t win a lot more games.”

The improvement in the Wildcats, which Stevens talked about, is mirrored in the team's final statistics. This year’s team hit
.266 as compared to last season’s .218. The team’s earned run average dropped from better than 4.5 last year to
2.78. The pitching staff was the brightest spot on the team for Stevens. “We pitched well enough to win. Rick
Pipan finished with two straight shutouts and three wins in the last week. Wade Shepherd did a fine job for
us and ended up with a 1.99 ERA. Davis Beaston and Mike Frye both did very fine jobs for us
when they pitched. Beaston had a 1.43 ERA and Frye’s was 2.04.”

Stevens also singled out Marshall Case as a definite bright spot for next year. “Case didn’t do as well as
we had hoped he would pitching this year because we used him at third and he didn't have the time
to work on his control. I hope that next year we can relieve him of playing third; he’s a very
good pitcher.”

Despite the team’s high batting average, second best in the conference, Stevens pointed to the team’s chief weaknesses. “We had
several games with 10 or 11 hits but all of them were singles. We just couldn't produce any runs. We
didn't have any power in the lineup; we were the only team in the Southern Conference not to hit a
home run. A team like High Point has hit 45."

Stevens pointed to practice and maturity as the keys to the limited success which the team enjoyed in the latter
part of the year. “We hurt ourselves early with errors, but we played much better defense in the last few
games. Our biggest problem was that we didn't get the hit in situations where we could drive in runs. We
left too many men on base, especially when we lost four or five games by one run in conference games.”

Stevens is optimistic over next year's chances since he will be welcoming back 14 lettermen and loses only Gordon Slade,
who led the team in hitting at .346. The entire pitching staff will return. Lynn Wagner, a .306 hitter, leads
the returnees along with Bill Barnhill, Harold Wilkerson, Bob Meadows, Hal Mapes, Jack Latimer, and Bick Halligan. “We'll be older
and more mature. We should be more relaxed in playing some of these tight ball games. I'd like to have
one man with good power and better team speed. The majority of these players have played more ball than some
of the boys we've had here before and I think it has changed their attitude toward the sport here.”

Another player who Stevens is counting on next spring is Jack Willits, who was injured in Florida and missed the
rest of the season. “I thought he'd be a regular for us,” Stevens noted. “I think that potentially he is
a great hitter.”

The Delts' win gave them a 7-0 record as compared to the Pikas’ 6-1. The SPE’s, behind the solid pitching
of Bob Dunham, have moved into third, a half game behind the Pikas at 5-1.

Martin also pointed out that with organizations like the handball club, they can serve more as a guidance group than
they have in the past. “This gives the competitors the chance to form their own organization in things in which
they are interested and then they can come to us for assistance or some funds. This way we could expand
on more informal lines. I don’t think that every intramural sport necessarily has to be based on fraternity teams.”

Martin also pointed out other informal extensions of intramurals such as faculty-student competition and open competition without the championship pressure.
Despite the flaws in the existing program which the council is now trying to eliminate, both Martin and Berry felt
that the program was getting a large share of the students into at least some kind of competition. Berry said,
“Based on my own house and others, I would estimate that about 80-90% of the members participate in one sport
or another.”

Martin estimated that 75% of the competitors were playing in only one or two sports which gave them as little
as one day of active competition. “I feel that we've made progress in opening intramurals up inside the system in
the past years but there is a lot we can do yet and a lot that we hope the new
program will do,” concluded Martin.
