. The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO MAY 8, 1970

A Time To Act

Now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their country. It is the time
that we, as an academic community, make it clear to the administration of this nation that the continuation of the
policies evident in events of the past weeks will not be tolerated.

INDOCHINA

As much as it hurts to say so, the war in Vietnam has become the war in Southeast Asia. We
feel betrayed. The war has entered a new phase of escalation, allegedly temporary, which promises to spread violence and killing
far beyond their original unacceptable bounds. Nixon tells us that this latest move of escalation will actually help shorten the
war, but we remain skeptical of that evaluation. The time has come when it is better to stop thinking that
he must know what is best because he is our president. The time has come to say that the government
is suspected of less than that sane conduct with regard to the nation and the world. We remain suspect of
a government that could deny involvement in Laos even as a secret war was being waged in that area. We
remain suspect of a military that could accept a horror such as that of My Lai until exposed. We remain
suspect of an administration which would expand an unpopular war even to the point of invading a neutral country without
its knowledge. Finally, we remain suspect of a President who bases his claims to power on the existence of that
“middle America,” those “forgotten Americans,” or that “silent majority” which could not even give the President half of the votes
in the last election.

KENT STATE

We indeed face extraordinary problems, and our approach to these problems must likewise be extraordinary. It is not enough to
sit in front of the tube and complain or to grumble as we read the front pages of our newspapers.
No, we must make our displeasure and concern heard. Nixon and his henchman, Spiro Agnew, have too long been allowed
to judge the nation’s mood by what they are able to concoct out of the silence of their great majority.
Yet in parallel with opinions expressed from on high there has been running a nationwide current of repression maintained by
petty and militaristic attitudes on the local levels of society. This repression surfaced most dramatically during the police riots of
the 1968 Chicago convention. These attitudes surface every time that American honkies applaud Agnew’s remarks about effete intellectuals, freedom of
the press, or liberal college admissions policies. Most recently, however, they surfaced with the senseless and inexcusable killing of four
college students at Kent State University in Ohio. We all know what happened, and on the basis of available information
there seems to have been no justification for the actions of those Ohio national guardsmen involved. But even more serious
questions lurk behind the slayings. These students were seriously and conscientiously questioning the President’s actions in Cambodia’s situation. Are we
to assume that this right of protest is no longer available to them or to us? After the tragedy, President
Nixon remarked that the incident should point out the danger of violence in protests. But we ask, on whose side
was the violence? The lessons to be learned from the incident do not concern violent protest. Not at all. Rather
they concern the danger in a nation’s too long ignoring morality in international and domestic dealings. They concern the danger
in acting to prolong national suffering by expanding the very cause of that suffering. And they concern the danger of
a President who ignores honest opinions by dismissing them as the work of “college bums.”

DAVIDSON

If anything, the events at Kent State should unite the students and indeed the entire academic community of the U.S.
in an effort to show the President that the opinions held by those at Kent State are not isolated viewpoints.
But how is the President to be made to realize that fact? Our SGA is sending a resolution of support
to the students at Kent State and for that they are to be commended. There is talk of a telegram
to Nixon. But such efforts are not enough. Nixon apparently will not listen to reason. The October and November Moratorium
observances were two of the largest expressions of opinion, if not the largest, to be presented to Nixon since he
took office. But all through the events we heard from the White House only that Nixon would not be influenced
by such things. We shouted then; perhaps we need to shout louder. Courses of effective action do seem to be
open. First is the sort of “middle-class” protest organized by professors Gaige, Jackson, and Kaylor. On a wide enough scale
such a move will scare Nixon into change. That action and similar actions deserve unqualified support. Ultimately this sort of
action will be the most effective that could be taken. But it can receive and must receive activist support from
the students of this college. The ROTC demonstrations on Tuesday seemed to be an encouraging sign that students are concerned
enough to commit themselves completely. It seems highly incongruous that students should allow support for the military to continue while
the military seems to be bent on screwing our lives by its actions in Southeast Asia. ROTC is not the
real enemy, however, and it must be made clear that such actions do not represent idle efforts at violence. They
must be presented to the people of this area as sincere efforts of protest. For it is ultimately with Nixon’s
own silent majority that the battle must be fought. It is with the support of the voters that Nixon’s plans
will be changed. For that change is the ultimate and final goal. The Nixon administration must not be allowed further
to perpetrate injustice in the guise of publicly supported policy.

A Time To Teach

The Teach-In on the ecological crisis has come and gone, having promised much and produced little. The failure of the
Teach-In to come up to its expectations can in no way be blamed on the organizing committee which did yeomen
duty in setting the program up. Rather it rests with the student body, which did not support the effort with
anything like the enthusiasm necessary for success. Yet, the problems of our environment become more pressing every day, regardless of
the international situation. They will confront us for years to come, being, in all probability, the most important problems to
confront us for the rest of this century. The lack of attendance for much of the Teach-In may reveal a
weakness in the Ecos movement at Davidson. Given the lack of enthusiasm for much of the program, it is hard
to avoid the thought that ecology has become a popular subject, one pursued because it is current and thus, an
aid to conversation. This point was driven home by the symposium on environmental problems which was held Tuesday evening. It
was a storehouse of practical information, in that its members were involved on an everyday basis through their participation in
commercial, governmental and academic affairs. A great deal of insight into the practical problems of pollution control might have been
gained from the symposium, yet more people were present from outside the college community than from within. Given the importance
of the environment, it is obvious that the time has come to raise the quality of study in this area
from that of occasional symposium to that of regular course. This year’s Teach-In and last year’s symposium on the biosphere
have shown conclusively that Davidson has the faculty resources and desire to initiate an inter-departmental program on ecological problems. THE
DAVIDSONIAN feels that a course of this kind would be a valuable addition to the curriculum. Environmental issues are vital;
it’s time the academic community took them seriously.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

CARTOON IS NOT ABOUT ECOLOGY

HIRST

Applicant Is Rejected; Tucker Refutes Rogers

To the Editor:

In early January a number of prospective black students visited the Davidson campus, and I chanced to talk with some
of them. One of the students told me that H. Edmunds White had advised him that he probably would be
happier at some place other than Davidson, and I asked him to write me if he were rejected.

I quote the first paragraph of his recent letter to me:

“We were right, man! They didn’t accept me to Davidson. It was really funny. I thought my mother was going
to cry. She fell in love with Davidson after they sent Calvin Murphy to interview me. When I told Dad,
he remembered my conversation with H. Edmunds White and gave me a lecture on how to eat shit in order
to eventually dish it out. I could hardly keep from bursting out laughing.”

The student had the following qualifications: SAT Verbal of 621, SAT Math of 620, English achievement of 726, math achievement
of 625, Spanish achievement of 431 (after one year of Spanish). He was a National Merit Semifinalist. On the other
hand, the student was asked to leave a leading New England prep school after his first two years of high
school, presumably because of academic difficulties. He finished his remaining two years at a public high school with a B
plus average. He told me that his recommendations probably were not good, and that his grades were not outstanding, likely
because he did not conform to his high school’s notions of proper conduct. Next year this student will be at
the University of North Carolina. He would have come to Davidson. There may be facts in the case of which
I am not aware. As a person, the student impressed me favorably. Perhaps the philosophy underlying Davidson’s admissions policy deserves
scrutiny.

Joe Jones ‘70
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Although I’m not a member of the Ad Hoc Committee for the Protection ofStudents, I feel impelled to reply to
the fatuous argument constructed by Tom Rogers which attempted to impugn the motives and actions of the committee. Because Rogers’
statement doesn't seem buttressed by any sort of consistent logic, it is difficult to criticize his analysis of the committee’s
intent. But I think a few of the unconscionable fallacies can be noted. In the first place, Rogers assumes that
the decisions made by the CRC (or the Admissions Committee, et al.) are, in a sense, beyond human judgment. Given
the nature of the political process at this school, that opinion, I suppose, is fairly prevalent and certainly orthodox, but
to me it seems profoundly antidemocratic. For as long as legitimacy and authority are defined exclusively in terms of faculty
and administrative committees (with an occasional superfluous thrust from the SGA on the periphery of significance), students will continue to
experience the sterile ethos of Davidson: an environment characterized by apathy, frenetic excursions into trivia, and a general sense of
impotence. What seems to me most worthwhile about the Ad Hoc Committee is that it is pursuing its own form
of legitimacy, defining its own source of authority, creating its own sense of power. What I particularly resent is the
casual manner in which Rogers bandies about “responsible” and “irresponsible.” The values he imputes to these words are insipid and
morally worthless. So, toward a redefinition of irresponsibility: the first level of irresponsibility is occupied by those who arrogate power
without understanding the nature of its implications, and who invoke the titular “committee” to presume authority. Manning a lower level
are those who boast the pretense of authority without its substance, exercising their claim in pointless forms. But the lowest
and most culpable level of irresponsibility is reserved for those who unflinchingly accept the bombast promulgated from above, questioning not
the source of decision and deriding those who do.

Cary Tucker ‘70
Davidson College

PERcept
By PAUL E. ROWLAND

All Of Us Bums

Dear Mr. President,

Remember your Pentagon visit last week where you said: “You know, you see these bums, you know, blowing up the
campuses. Listen, the boys on the college campuses today are the luckiest people in the world—going to the greatest universities—and
here they are burning up the books, storming around about this issue, I mean—you name it. Get rid of the
war and there’ll be another one.”

Well, you know, you see these bums, you know, glossing over the issues. Listen, the boys in the administration today
are the trickiest people in the world—running the home of the brave and the land of the free—and here they
are griping about dissent, I mean—you name it. Get rid of the war and there’ll be another one.

Why not get rid of this war and let us have something less tragic to storm about? You went on
to say, “And out there we got kids who are just doing their duty, and I’ve seen them; they stand
tall and they’re proud.” Proud of what? Proud of supporting the Thieu government which just decided to let his most
outspoken political opponent out of prison? Proud of supporting that government which just closed its colleges and universities indefinitely to
avoid the embarrassment of dissent? Proud of the neat things napalm and our other fireworks can do? Proud of what
My Lai did for all those gooks—er..uh..that is, suspected VC men, women and children? Proud of what?

To make matters worse your effetely snobbish colleague went on television Sunday and paraphrased you saying that protestors are “simply
using this as a vehicle to continue their antisocial, outrageous conduct, and I think when the war is over they’ll
find something else to use as an excuse...” Mr. Agnew went on to say that a man whose house is
on fire does not whisper requests for water, but yells “Fire” and added that he was yelling “Fire,” where he
saw fit. He also said that those who dissent should be violently “put down.”

The National Guard saw fit to put down a few of the bums Monday scoring four dead, a dozen wounded,
a closed university, and a shocked nation. To borrow the Vice-President’s metaphor, it seems he may have contributed to arson
by adding his flame to the situation. Not to be outdone you, Mr. President, came through with a statement about
violence inviting tragedy despite the paucity of reliable (i.e. not contradictory) reports of the incident.

All this, sir, brings me to the point of my letter. Back when you were running for office you were
fond of quoting Abe Lincoln. I just wanted to remind you of something Abe said which you may have forgotten:
“To sin by silence when they should protest makes cowards of men.”

Williams College To Offer Environmental Studies
Intercollegiate Press

Williams College will begin next fall an undergraduate program in environmental studies—a “coordinate program” in which the subject of environment
will be considered in a liberal arts context. The program will enable students to explore environmental issues in depth while
continuing to major in a traditional discipline, receiving credit toward their major for courses taken in the program.

“The Williams approach seeks another dimension in environmental studies,” says Carl H. Reidel, assistant professor of political science and assistant
director of the Williams Center for Environmental Studies, now in its third year of operation, “one that involves the full
range of arts and sciences around which a liberal arts education has traditionally centered. I believe this is vital to
comprehend the environmental crisis we face today with all its immense complexity. The crisis is as much an ethical, cultural
and social problem as it is a scientific one.” he continues. “Ecology, perhaps in a metaphorical sense, is the core—the
way of thinking.”

A student enrolling in the coordinate program will take four introductory courses during his freshman and sophomore year. These are
an economic course on current issues of social and public policy, an art course on environmental planning and design, a
biology course on the structure and function of ecological systems, and one of three other courses depending on the student’s
major. For students majoring in the humanities or social science, two science courses are the fourth course option: a geology
course, “The Changing Face of the Earth,” or “The Physical Sciences and the Environment.” Students majoring in science will take
a political science course, “Politics, Bureaucracy, and the Public Environment.”

Student Mocks ROTC Protest
To the Editor:

I cannot help wondering, with a tinge of envy, about the identity of that clever band of sprightly lads parading
around the college campus Tuesday afternoon. As I noticed the antics of the group, I was immediately struck by their
gay attire: Their costumes ranged from a frog to Robin Hood, and they were armed with wings, balloons, and cookie
containers, all lending to the carnival atmosphere. They expressed their merriment with cheers and shouts; smiles and laughter lit the
faces of most. Throughout the afternoon, one or another did his best to organize chants, but, alas! these efforts all
proved to be in vain. Nevertheless, despite the failure to coordinate the group's energies, a healthy spirit of fellowship within
the ranks did prevail. To the rhythm of a snappy beat they marched. Around the track, across the soccer field,
and up and down the road they went. At one point they took a break and rested on the floor
of the basement of Belk Dormitory. The group finally dispersed not far from where it had assembled, at the rear
of Belk. In all good faith, I must applaud them. Their gaiety and frivolities are a healthy antidote to the
daily pressures of college life. I wholeheartedly commend such uninhibited actions as a means by which the Davidson student can
achieve the temporary psychological release he needs. A healthier atmosphere will be enjoyed by all as these compatriots demonstrate—yes, demonstrate—a
return to innocence.

Robert E. Morey
Class of ‘72

Bostian Cites ‘Losses;’ Students Aid In Clean-up
To the Editor:

Our college judicial system has received much criticism of late, some justified and some less justified. Since constant review and
reexamination is essential if we are to keep our court system workable and just, I would like to question a
certain aspect of student responsibility. When we were first introduced into the Davidson community last fall, much was made of
the Honor Code. Upperclassmen told us that the Code, created and enforced by students, was a way of life here
and that respect for it was unanimous. A disturbing recent development has caused me to wonder whether I can really
take this fact for granted. The number of “lost” items in the bi-weekly announcement sheets continues to remain at about
three or four per issue, with few reports of “found” items to repair the losses. After big weekends especially, a
rash of “lost” notices appear; most with the pitiful remark, “No questions asked.” Now I am sure as Sergeant Penley
assures us, that quite a few delinquent children from the town enter our dorms and “lose” our possessions for us,
but I am also relatively confident that some of these objects “lose” themselves in the hands of honor-bound Davidson students.
The SGA is currently working for increased student privileges and responsibilities, but we as a group undermine these efforts by
continuing to wink at stolen personal belongings. It would be in our best interest to see that this habit comes
to a quick end.

Larry Bostian ‘73
Davidson College

To the Editor:

As cochairman of the community Clean-Up Week recently completed we would like to express our sincere appreciation to the students
who helped in the campaign. There was a greatly increased amount of trash to be collected, and the students helped
speed this up considerably. They also helped individual residents move heavy, bulky objects out to the curb so they could
be picked up. We feel that this project was a very worthwhile part of your Earth Day celebration.

Annie Mildred Lowery
Anne S. White
Davidson, N. C.
