Page Eight September 25, 1970

The Mavthaantan Group Organizes For Blue Election

If junior Whit Ayres and the local chapter of the Movement for a New Congress have their way, Cliff Blue will be representing North Carolina’s Eighth Congressional District come January. Blue has been selected by the chapter as the candidate that they will give help to in the organization’s bid to create a congress which is willing to “reorder priorities from military spending to domestic uses,” according to Ayres. The organizational meeting of the chapter will be held Tuesday at 9:30 in the Morrison Room. Ayres indicated that the “initial response has been very favorable.”

Ayres characterized the chapter's political work this fall as “an attempt to organize grassroots support for the candidates who are willing to vote to reorder the national priorities. We’re at a disadvantage in that we won’t have a picture candidate like an Allard Lowenstein or a Teddy Kennedy. Blue was selected as a moderate running against a very conservative incumbent and a candidate involved in a close race in which we think we can be very helpful.” Ayres added, “Blue was surprisingly encouraging. I had expected him to be hesitant. The race is close and he has a definite chance to win.”

The Davidson volunteers will be engaged in door-to-door and telephone canvassing. Ayres discounted the idea that the presence of students in Blue’s campaign would be ill-received by the voters. “If handled in a tactful manner, I think our work will be very beneficial. We’re going to try to get out the friendly vote that might not have gone to the polls.”

The Eighth District includes the Kannapolis and Salisbury areas.

(Photo By Davidson)

A SENIOR LUNCHEON TO CONCLUDE CONVOCATION

Bevan and Martin join Allen for lunch.

Spencer to Examine Continental Schools

By JOHN McLEAN
Associate Editor

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced Tuesday he has been invited to participate in a cultural exchange program to evaluate American studies programs in several German Universities. He will visit, among other places, the University of Berlin, Konstanz, Bochum, and Marburg, where several Davidson students are currently studying. Spencer said he and his wife plan to leave for Germany Oct. 21 for an eight-week study tour sponsored by the German Academic Exchange Service.

Spencer characterized the program as a “sort of cultural exchange,” and said...

Rouse Blasts Federal Priorities

(Continued From Page 1)

...nam in one month than has been spent on the problems of the cities in the history of the United States. Students have a right to be impatient and unreasonable when protesting such mistakes, Rouse said. He also said that race riots in the cities had been the biggest factor in waking the government to problems already extant. He indicated that further student activism would also be valuable in demonstrating the problems which existed even if no solutions were offered by the activist students.

During the initial ceremonies, Mike Wheeler received the Alumni Association Medal for achievement in the first year of college.

Coed Interview

(Continued From Page 1)

...tic. Qualifying that, I mean that the average student is apathetic on issues. For example, it seems to me they are concerned with what involves them personally, like the refrigerator problem. Maybe I’m wrong, though.

MISS ROSS: I think that may be a little unfair. As far as academics go, I think the students are really enthusiastic about getting their work done.

MISS DANIELS: I think that they feel more of a purpose in studying than students at girls’ schools. There’s no purpose in academics at a girls’ school, or at least at mine. You go to classes and learn but you really don’t feel like you have a purpose for learning. Here I feel like students really have a purpose.

MISS ROSS: I’ve seen so many people here go to work in things like Open House and birth control and Planned Parenthood. I think those I’ve seen of the students here are very involved.

MISS YOUNG: Just because they aren’t interested in inner-city work doesn’t mean they are apathetic, either. They might be intensely interested in history or something, and that’s just as worthwhile.

MISS LOWRANCE: I think that the boys here have a much greater awareness of self than those at other schools. They are much more aware and interested in what’s going on in their minds.

DAVIDSONIAN: Since Davidsonian students have been far removed from many things, particularly females, could you give your responses to the popular feminist movement? Do you feel that there is a feminine perspective?

MISS DANIEL: To what?

DAVIDSONIAN: A major argument for coeducation is that women do have a different perspective to add to the classroom. Is this true?

MISS ROSS: There is a...

Associate Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
JOHN McLEAN
RUSS MERRITT
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH
TOM VERNON

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
DON PARMAN

Sports Editor:
ERNIE SHIPE

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Contributors this week:
Hanig, Robert Touchton, Wind...
Andy Joe Earle, Dave Tierney, Hal...
Robby Little, Doug Brown, Jo...
Canter, Howard Boyd, Charlie...
Terrell, Peter...

...line that you do draw. On the surface we appear similar and different both, but underneath there are personal, i.e., feminine differences. For him the approach is masculine, for me it is feminine.

DAVIDSONIAN: Would this difference in viewpoint that you females bring improve the educational process at Davidson?

MISS YOUNG: I think that maybe in the long run it may take away from the academic side. I think that a large group of girls might not study.

MISS LOWRANCE: I think it all depends on the person. I can't really see any tangible differences in the perspectives of a woman and a man. I feel like there ought to be some, but I don't see any at all. I think that we’re all people, and it just depends on the attitude that you have. I don’t feel the perspective will differ too much if you get a girl and a boy together that are interested in learning.

DAVIDSONIAN: The major worry about going co-ed among many male students is that possibly the educational standards will drop, not so much because the girls will lower it, but because they might distract the boys. How do you feel about this?

MISS DANIEL: Well, you know how much time the students spend in Charlotte at Queens now. I really think that's one of the least of their worries.

MISS ROSS: And they will have more time to work on weekends. You get a date now on a weekend and don’t do anything but stay with your date the entire time.

MISS DANIEL: I talked to one guy who said he hadn't been in a class with a girl since the sixth grade. So he and others like him are really bothered sitting in a class with a girl. And...

Staff News Editor:
SCOTT DAVIDSON

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Assistant Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonist:
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Photographers:
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
Strawcutter, Alec Hoon, Michael...
Davidly March and Steve Earp...

...for them it's just not normal to be with girls, and I don't think it’s normal for them to feel this way when they have girls around.

DAVIDSONIAN: Do you think that perhaps the sexual segregation has hurt the educational development and learning process of many of the students here?

MISS DANIEL: It’s made many awfully uncomfortable around girls, and this particular guy can’t sit down and study when girls are around without feeling that he’s being watched.

MADLEN MARINARO: When I study in the library, everyone gets all flustered and drops their papers, their books... Some guy was so nervous that once I had to get up and move.

MISS LOWRANCE: It’s probably not hurting their academic development, but it is hurting their personal development to be segregated from girls.

MISS ROSS: In one of the orientation discussion groups, one freshman asked if not seeing girls during the week made seeing them on the weekend more special. It’s ideally nice, but it just doesn’t work that way.

MISS DANIEL: It ends up that a bunch of guys who haven't seen a girl all week play the rape scene all weekend.

MISS LOWRANCE: It's so superficial. You don’t really get to know them as people, whereas here you can really talk to a guy, stay with him and know him. Weekends are just superficial.

DAVIDSONIAN: Would you recommend to another...

Wheeler completed his freshman year at Davidson with a grade-point average of 4.2777. The Thomas Jefferson Award for the instructor representing the best qualities of a teacher and scholar was given to Professor of Religion Daniel Rhodes.

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan...I have been at a girls’ school. I think that there are a lot of functions that women hold today. However, women are still not expected to contribute as much in society, even though they have just as much to offer. I'd like to see the day come when it didn’t matter whether I make more money than a guy. What’s important in the end after all is doing what we can.

Miss Luster ‘Sleepwrites’ LSD-Fed Symbolic Erotica
By DICK ANDERSON
Associate Editor

What is creativity? Is it something a writer must dredge out of himself, or does it come unbidden, transmitting a message for which the writer’s mind is only a channel? This question is especially relevant to Miss Helen Luster, the poet—she disdains the name “poetess”—who read in the College Union Bar Wednesday night as the year’s first poetry circuit performer.

Miss Luster told students and faculty who met with her at lunch and dinner that at least her most recent work has largely created itself while she sleeps at night. “I get up in the morning and write it down,” she said. “Some of my best poems I didn’t even change a word in. My earlier works is just observation of the world around me,” she explained. “The problem was I didn’t have any output. I had technique but no output.”

Miss Luster said her first book had required ten years of writing, but that she had suddenly become more creative, writing six more books in a year and a half by means of her “sleepwriting.” “It’s really much better work than I did before,” she said, “and therefore more satisfying, although I can’t feel any ego trip any more. I feel I have become a vehicle of some sort.”

She dates the beginning of her increased creativity to an LSD experience she underwent at a party when someone slipped the drug in her drink. “I’m not recommending LSD for anybody,” she warned, “although I feel there should be centers with medical supervision and all, for the people who need it, the drug is terribly dangerous. I definitely don’t think it should be used for kicks,” she continued, “but it can open up experience for you if the experience of the drug is oriented in the direction you are going. Spiritual drugs are for a purpose. In societies that have used them regularly, like Indians taking peyote, they have traditionally been tied up with life. But in this society we don’t have any spiritual orientation.”

Miss Luster feels that her drug experience enabled her to experience and become a vehicle for the pulse of the universe. “It is a tuning in to the universe, which is a rhythmic thing. If you’re in an emotional state, you’re in a rhythmic state,” she said. “Human speech under great emotion falls into rhythmic patterns: the problem is not to lose the energy of that rhythm. In prose there is a great loss of energy. In great poetry you keep the energy, and if by your poetry you can get someone in this emotional state then you have written a great poem.”

Miss Luster’s poetry tends to be highly thematic with frequent reiteration of symbols, and also often extremely erotic. “When I began writing I suddenly began to identify myself with the female force in nature,” Miss Luster explained. “I had this thing about monotheism; I felt it was wrong. Jehovah is purely masculine, but in nature there is masculine and female, and divinity should reflect this.”

Miss Luster admits that her symbology can be fairly complex—“somebody once accused me of making puzzles in my poems for the hearer; he announced me by saying: ‘I want to warn you that it’s going to be terribly difficult’”—but feels that the reader must do some of the work. “But the artist shouldn’t think of himself above his audience,” she added. “The relationship has to be reciprocal.”

Next Wednesday a series of Sunday morning religious discussion groups for Davidson students will begin. These sessions are designed to project an opportunity to the student for religious thought outside the realm of the actual church services.

as being, gave a brief address in which he stressed the great demand for “access of higher education,” and expressed his confidence that change would come. Ten new faculty members, including a woman, were also introduced. His mission would be to ask questions about German education in hopes of learning something from them about how to improve American university education.

Spencer will observe development in German universities, with an eye toward evaluating programs of American studies there and opportunities for visiting American students. He said he will also talk with European university officials about expanding Davidson’s foreign exchange program. One of the most successful programs at Davidson is the Junior Year Abroad. Each year about 35 students spend their junior year studying in a foreign university. Course credits earned abroad are then applied toward Davidson’s graduation requirements. Spencer has said he would like to see Davidson's foreign study program increased to include as many as 100 students.

Spencer will visit a representative number of German universities and confer with administrators of those institutions on recent improvements in their educational system. Spencer said he will also stop over for a week in England to confer with university officials there. Spencer said he thought some developments in German higher education might be worth putting into effect in the United States. He noted that most graduate level programs in U.S. universities are patterned after European models. Spencer noted that German universities are operated differently from most American schools. There are no private colleges in Germany. All universities are state universities, and there is a national admissions system. Any student who passes national high school exams is admitted to any university he wants to attend, regardless of his financial condition. Spencer and his family lived in Germany from 1965 to 1966 when he was a Fulbright Lecturer in American history at the University of Munich. While Spencer is in Germany John M. Bevan, newly-appointed academic vice president, will serve as acting head of the college.

Ostwalt Eager To Hear Student Academic Woes
By ANDY STRAWCUTTER
Staff Writer

Ostwalt, Who is he? This is probably among the least frequently asked questions on the Davidson Campus. Associate Dean of the Faculty and Registrar Jay H. Ostwalt makes his presence felt. Ostwalt’s office is always open to students with gripes about the curriculum, serious scheduling problems, or to those who just want to gripe about the whole mess. When asked about his favorite duty as dean and registrar, Ostwalt cited his work with students and faculty in search for more varied and flexible programs of study. The search has brought to Davidson a program of extended studies, which the faculty has only passed in principle. There are policy details yet to be worked out. Another proposal is presently before the Educational Policy Committee. It concerns self-scheduled examinations. So far this is only a proposal, but Ostwalt expects action on the passage of this proposal by the faculty. Both of these programs will benefit the students by providing new options in the curriculum.

Ostwalt’s extracurricular activities have been made possible by the addition of computers at Davidson. He said the computers relieved him of much paperwork and gave him more time to deal with students’ problems. The computer so far hasn’t done the job everyone expected. This is because we are in a “transition from an old to a new system,” he said. A new computer was installed here at Davidson in August of this year. It is a NCR Century 100 and replaces the less modern IBM 1620 computer system. The new computer handles more sophisticated jobs. In the future the registrar’s office will be relieved of even more work. He plans to program the computer for academic priorities; causing the computer to schedule academic education or ROTC. This will be an advantage, because these two courses are easier to reschedule, he said. Ostwalt is not sure when the computer would be working to its full capacity but predicted that it would be operable by the end of this year. The Century 100 usually takes six to nine months to become adjusted.

Ostwalt became registrar on this campus three years ago “to help work on the implementation of the new curriculum.” This set the tone of his work thus far at Davidson. Politics holds a real interest for Ostwalt. He is a Democrat. He votes the straight Democratic ticket. “Any Democrat is better than any Republican.” Beyond that he has “an open mind.”

PANTS EAST
1522 East Fourth St.
“largest selection of flares, jeans, bell-bottoms in Charlotte”
Owned & Operated by people who know what you want.

Holland’s Sunday School To Examine Christian Relationships Of Literature
By SCOTT DAVIDSON
News Editor

The first four Sundays of the series will be under the tutelage of Gil Holland, Professor of English. His topic will be the relationship of Christianity to literature. Following the initial four weeks, various professors will continue the series in a pattern of two-Sunday conversations related to their area. The group discussions will meet weekly at 9:45 a.m. in the student lounge of the Presbyterian Church. Orange juice, coffee and doughnuts will be included.

NEW AND USED FURNITURE & APPLIANCES
TO MAKE YOUR ROOM MORE COMFORTABLE
SEE HOWARD & BRAWLEY FURNITURE COMPANY
PHONE 662-1881
162 N. MAIN STREET, MOORESVILLE, N. C.