The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEGNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR OCTOBER 23, 1970

A Challenge

With the pro-fraternity rally on the football field Saturday, protest suddenly became a highly respectable Davidson institution. It became something
to bring a date to, something to which one could wear his fraternity pin.

Yet in spite of all the seriousness and respectability of the pregame rally, one could not help but get the
feeling that the marchers were all quite seriously misguided.

They were faced with a fact, a given, and incontrovertible change in the Davidson social system. Yet their action seemed
designed in complete disregard of the finality of the trustees’ decision.

It would seem wise of the present fraternity members, if they are at all really concerned with Davidson’s social system,
to try to work within that trustee decision to ensure that the transition is made as smoothly and as equitably
as possible.

As was pointed out by several trustees and members of the administration, after the changes were made, the new system
is a “challenge to the fraternities and all Davidson students to learn to develop and think in terms of new
social arrangements.”

It is nonsense for a fraternity member to moan, as some did, that the old system just will not be
a fraternity anymore. To think that the social conceptions of Davidson students can only be expressed in such narrowly limited
terms is frightening. Perhaps the trustee action came too late for these men of concrete minds.

Yet for those who still can think in other than traditional terms and for those freshmen who will be working
entirely within the new system, a big challenge lies ahead. It is a challenge to realize that social systems need
not be the anachronistic, exclusive, mystic goodie monopolies Davidson has seen in the past. It is a challenge to read
the trustee decisions with open minds and to realize that the petty objections of coercion and college control are really
avoiding the issues entirely. It is a challenge to the fraternities to forget their pasts and to look to their
futures.

A Real ‘Big Weekend’

Davidson students have never been known as ones with the capacity to avoid bandwagons and we fear that the Ad
Hoc Committee to End Big Weekends may be suffering from such an inability.

To be sure there are many things wrong with “big weekends” as they currently exist. Many of the circus side
shows are not in congruence with the Davidson student’s better qualities. There is too much of an attempt to cram
every minute with activity even if much of it is admittedly meaningless.

But “off weekends” do not seem to be the real issue that they were last year. The fall term schedule
is fairly complete, and we assume the pace will be maintained all year. The real problem is the grossly undue
emphasis on “big weekends” as the cure-all for Davidson’s massive social ills (for an excellent statement of this problem the
reader is referred to the PERcept columns of Oct. 16 and 23).

Yet the solution to this unrealistic situation is the immediate institution of coeducation on a massive scale (a solution which
the trustees have said is worthy but impossible), not the abolishment of “big weekends.”

The petition of the ad hoc committee asks that the “big weekends” be scrapped to free money for the hiring
of more and better big-name entertainment. Yet to have this big entertainment on some weekend would naturally make that weekend
bigger than all the rest and thus a “big weekend.”

A different approach must be taken to correct the evils of the system. First, the paternalistic attitudes of the social
controllers at Davidson, who shudder at the thought of any change in the present institutions besides proliferating them, must be
broken. Then perhaps a “big weekend” could be seen for what it is—a weekend for which a more expensive prom
and a larger array of parties have been scheduled.

Once this more realistic attitude is approached, perhaps those in power here can be convinced that they must begin immediately
to work for coeducation. It is easy to sit back as the trustees did last winter and affirm the principle
of coeducation without establishing the machinery to implement it.

DICK ANDERSON

Making A Joyful Noise

“Gimme that good old-time religion,
Gimme that good old-time religion,
Gimme that good old-time religion,
It's good enough for me.”

(Rock groups, a minister with a blue turtleneck, slide projections on the walls, and a movie collage are not precisely
what’s “good for me,” but the “Celebration” Tuesday night partook of the old-time, revivalist flavor.)

Joy is not characteristic of typical American Protestant church services; more frequent is a sleepy boredom. But the attitude striven
for in Dr. Don M. Wardlaw’s presentation matches the feeling I remember from my aunt’s tent revivals in rural Tennessee.

“Tub-thumping,” revivalism is called—the Morrison Room thudded electronically in heartbeat rhythms, and greasepaint, incongruous clowns told us, “You are present
at the creation—shhh...”

Quiet chased intervals of snake-dancing. Sensitivity games...played themselves, and the clowns threw dirty words at us: racism, the Vietnam war,
poverty. Wardlaw quoted from the scripture, tore the bread joyously and gave it to be transferred from hand to mouth
among the people. Wine in large glasses—not the Presbyterians’ grape juice in antiseptic shot glasses, but wine in large glasses—was
carried and given by the clowns. The snake-dancing resumed and the people left and there was an end to the
celebrating. Sweating, the people stopped and went back into themselves, those who had managed to get out of themselves anyway.
There was the problem. Too many of those in attendance were not worshipping uninhibitedly—or even being uninhibited. Too often the
bread or wine was refused, too many were only making motions, too few forgot themselves in frenzy. To make such
a celebration work, participants have to forget their notions of hygiene; for it is not time when the bread is
offered to worry about catching halitosis from the giver.

PAUL ROWLAND

The people sang the Apostles’ Creed, which as every freshman Bible student knows was a set of specific answers to
Second Century heresies. To affirm belief in specific resurrection of the body was incongruous in the context of amorphous worship.
There was a feeling of joy and group identity, albeit occasionally rudely shattered by halitosophobes, but I am not certain
that this did not come solely from the music, the sitting in a darkened room and the dancing. Divinity was
unto those who committed themselves to the celebration and to their fellows. But I fear that unto the greater part
was only a party without enough drink.

Lassiter Answered

ED. NOTE: Several points with regard to the letter from Raymond Lassiter ’73 need to be made now which could
not be made last week because the editor was off campus for several days. Lassiter’s main complaint seemed to be
that John McLean wrote a story attributed to Steve Cross. It must be noted that McLean was working on the
copy desk that night and chose to rewrite the article by Cross when it revealed several ambiguities. Cross then approved
the story on the basis of his interview with Richard C. Burts Jr. and did agree to run his byline
on the story which contained information he had gathered. This procedure is customary. We regret that Lassiter misunderstood the information
in the story to have come from McLean.

Getting Coeds Beats Weekend

Dear C. Shaw Smith,

She thoroughly enjoyed it (the Homecoming extravaganza, that is) but she didn’t understand you at all. When we ran into
you during halftime at the football fiasco, I mean game, she knew you meant I was undeserving, not she, when
you said, “He doesn’t deserve you; he deserves somebody else.” On our way to the Kenny Rogers and the First
Edition concert where you called down the hall “Let his date in but no big weekends for Rowland” she saw
that you were smiling as if you didn't mean it. And she managed to ignore your remark before our visit
to the Union Bar. She listened attentively as you and I talked before our return to the Freeway dance. Remember?
You said you had two things to tell me. The first was a very serious word: “money.” She asked you
to repeat it because you hadn't said it very seriously. The second was that there are activities planned for every
weekend until Thanksgiving. (How about afterwards?) Then she pondered the Wailing Wall as I reminded you that in addition to
the column you found irksome, I had written a favorable review of Steve Baron’s Hungry D. As I pointed out
your numerous negative comments on the column and silence on the complimentary review, she was shocked at your loss for
words when I asked, “Why don’t you people be positive for a change?”

You see, Mr. Smith, like you she had read the column you found offensive, but unlike you, she understood my
point. It was not an attack on Big Weekends as such. Got that? I was merely dramatizing the already bizarre.
Although many see the concert format as outworn and view the sideshows as absurd additions and the expenditures as excessive:
that wasn’t the main point. Presently, the painful truth is that many students spend considerable time, effort and money on
arranging for and recuperating from weekend binges. It seems clear enough that the goal of all this activity is something
pitifully absent most of the week: female companionship. What I said last week and am now repeating is that coeducation
is a more viable solution to the problem. Currently the main barrier may be summed up in one serious word:
money. Now, it seems that Davidson wastes piles of green on football, big weekends and other follies and that these
funds could be spent more effectively. Football on this campus is needed and appreciated about as much as prophylactics on
a geriatric ward. And big weekends do as much for social starvation as cotton candy for malnutrition. (My Houston friend
was here less than two days and realized that: why can’t you?)

Sincerely,
P.J.E.R.
