Page Six January 9, 1970 The Davidsonian

South Asia Talks Start Wednesday

The Davidson South Asian Studies Program, sprung into action for the first time during the fall term, draws from the
experience of members of the community in a series of eight lecture programs on Asian culture. The series will bring
together several faculty speakers and will be open to the administration, faculty, and students. Each session will be presented informally,
offering sessions on the history, religion, literature, economics, social conditions, and politics of South Asia.

OPEN HOUSE

The following homes will be open Sunday evening at 8: Lester Roundway Down will present the first program next Wednesday
at 7:30 p.m., featuring the film, "The Flute and the Arrow." The color film, presented to the music of Ravi
Shankar, introduces the Murian tribes of India, a very primitive, isolated tribe. The title derives from the two instruments that
follow a Muria man throughout his life: his bow and arrow for protection, and the decorated bamboo flute, the communicator
of his moods.

In the remainder of the series, programs will be presented by faculty members on Hindu philosophy, teachings of the Buddha,
the Greek role in the economic development of India, and literature.

Etzioni Calls For Mass Enrollment

Amitai Etzioni, the chair of the sociology department at Columbia University and director of the Center for Policy Research, a
non-profit organization in New York City, calls for significant help to disadvantaged blacks by enrolling large numbers of black students.
He maintains that the only major way to help is by enrolling large numbers of black students.

Carrier Current Station

The Daniel Foundation of Greenville, S.C. has given $4,000 to WDAV, the college radio station. Junior Ed Dobbs, manager of
WDAV, said that the funds will be used for establishing the control room and carrier lines for the radio station,
which is now planning to operate on a carrier current basis rather than FM broadcasting. "We simply have been unable
to raise the necessary funds required for FM transmission," Dobbs said. The two big advantages of carrier current are that
we can broadcast on AM frequencies so that more students can hear us, and we can sell advertising to pay
our way. The Daniel Foundation is a charitable foundation established by the late Charles E. Daniel and the Daniel Construction
Company, one of the world's largest construction firms.

Etzioni maintains that universal college education should be limited to the first two years of higher education. He feels that
federal aid to higher education should be concentrated in the first two years and given unconditionally to institutions upon the
establishment of an open-admission policy. After that, he hopes to set "advantaged" students in the third and fourth years of
college. He would use a quota system to select the best of such students in proportion to their number among
junior college students. The main impact of his suggestions would fall on the junior colleges of the nation; however, he
sees a role for the four-year institutions in his plans. The smaller numbers of students he sees in the third
and fourth years would represent increased quality.

TWO FACES OF SNOW

Every winter's first snow holds an aura of magic for the Florida freshmen, and snowball fights are frequent in the
early stages. Slightly removed from the action, the whiteness buries the fraternity court in a blanket wrinkled only by occasional
footfalls. (Staff Photos by Davidson).

New Knox Experiment Hopes For Learning Excitement

GALESBURG, ILL (IP) - Dr. Lewis S. Salter, dean of Knox College, is optimistic that the Experimental College, introduced on
this campus, will teach Knox some lessons in education. "In the long run," he says, "this test venture will enrich
teaching and learning at Knox." Basic to the notion of the EC is that learning should be exciting, a group
activity, and unforced, pursued for its own sake. A few Knox professors are offering the same regular courses in the
College curriculum and in the Experimental College, curious to see whether interest can be sustained without buttressing courses with grades,
tuition, and prerequisites. A course in political theory is now reproduced in both colleges; a course in existentialism will be
available both ways during the winter term.

Knox has for some years given credit for "group interest" courses, initiated by students who can find members of the
faculty to take charge. Thus, courses in black literature, pop culture, jazz, political conservatism, and Cuban photography have entered the
curriculum. Extracurricular "free university" courses have also existed on this campus, but until this year they were isolated phenomena. Successes
and failures with the Experimental College will undoubtedly shape the future formal curriculum on this campus. Professor Philip S. Haring,
duplicating his political theory sequence for the EC, says, "My hope is that this (EC) course will some day replace
my regular courses." Mathematician Dr. Robert J. Oberg hopes for more. "I hope the EC will be central to our
community and not peripheral," he says. "We should be able to spend the lion's share of our time on it."

SGA Elections Start Next Week

Elections for SGA offices are to be held within the next two weeks at Davidson. The filing deadline for the
following offices is midnight Tuesday, January 13: President of the Student Government Association (rising senior); Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN (rising
senior), Editor of Quips and Cranks (rising senior), Editor of The Miscellany (rising senior), President of the YMCA (rising senior),
Vice-president of the YMCA (rising junior), Secretary and Treasurer of the YMCA (rising sophomore), freshman advisor (rising senior), Honor Court
(two representatives from each class). Elections for these offices will be held on Tuesday, January 20. The candidates for SGA
President, Vice-president, and DAVIDSONIAN editor will be voted on by the rising sophomore, junior, and senior classes. Nominees for the
other offices will be elected by their respective class. Elections for the student senate are to be held one week
later than the above schedule. On Tuesday, January 27, the freshman, sophomore, and junior classes will elect senators. Petitions for
filing are available from Jim Hinshaw in 211 Cannon.

College Consortium Exchange Plan To Link Davidson, 7 Other Schools

How would you like to be a junior at Mary Baldwin next year? You could be if you are a
rising junior and if you apply to become a "Special Exchange Student" in the Eight College Consortium. The member institutions
are Davidson College, Hampden-Sydney College, Hollins College, Randolph-Macon College, Randolph-Macon Women's College, Sweet Briar College, and Washington and Lee. The
student exchange program begins this fall. Accepted applicants will normally spend a full academic year at the host institution. The
program is designed for the junior year, but, according to an information sheet passed out by the Registrar's Office, "sophomores
and seniors may be considered as applicants." Davidson College will be the judge of the eligibility of applicants.Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of our time in what really engages us either studying or teaching. Right now EC courses are in addition to
regular ones. I hope they can replace them.” Student Leader William Holway admits that if the Experimental College is successful,
traditional education will eventually reform along EC lines. “We ought to get rid of grades and credit, major requirements, and
degrees in the regular curriculum,” he says. “We should afford the professors freedom from the old standard course to teach
new ones that engage them.” Dr. Jay P. Minn, chairman of Knox's Modern Language department, has already begun to teach
such a new course in the Experimental College.

The Consortium program will normally be a full academic year, and normally this must be the junior year, though according
to an information sheet passed out by the Office of the Registrar, “sophomores and seniors may be considered as applicants.”
The home institution of any student in the exchange program must approve his program, and no change can be made
without consulting the home institution. On the other hand, the student’s program of study will be given full credit by
the home institution. Students in the exchange program can go only for a regular academic year and are not eligible
for the summer quarter. An exchange student will be held responsible for keeping the rules and regulations of the host
school. According to the information sheet, the purposes of the program are to broaden educational opportunities, to diversify the campus
environment, and “to be a limited experiment in cooperative ventures among these eight colleges, possibly leading to more extensive programs
in the future.”

Rusk To Begin As Law Teacher
By ED SHOAF
Managing Editor

Dean Rusk, a Davidson graduate and former Secretary of State under two presidents, has accepted a position as a professor
of international law at the University of Georgia in Athens. His acceptance came after two weeks of controversy among the
University of Georgia Board of Regents over his nomination. They eventually approved his appointment by a nine to four vote.
The controversy was initiated by Georgia Governor Lester G. Maddox and by regent Mr. Roy V. Harris, a prominent officer
in an American organization of White Citizens Councils. The two men opposed the appointment on the basis of Rusk’s liberal
political views and because his daughter married a Negro in the Fall of 1967. According to the New York Times,
Maddox hinted that the hiring of Rusk would only further what he called the “international Communist conspiracy.” Rusk will begin
his term as the Samuel H. Sibley Professor of International Law this coming Spring. The endowed position will pay him
$45,000 annually for his work. For the past year, Rusk has been taping oral history of the Kennedy and Johnson
administrations under a grant given by the Rockefeller Foundation. He is scheduled to be a Reynolds Lecturer here on April
6-8. After graduating from Davidson, Rusk attended Oxford University as a Rhodes scholar. He served as Associate Professor of Government
and Dean of the Faculty at Mills College from 1934-1940. Rusk then served in the Army for six years. In
1952 he became president of the Rockefeller Foundation. In 1961 he was appointed Secretary of State by President John Kennedy
and he maintained that position under President Johnson.

Duke Picks Sanford As President

Former governor of North Carolina Terry Sanford was named recently to the presidency of Duke University. The selection of Sanford
climaxed a six-month search on the part of Duke trustees, administration, and students to find a successor for former president
Douglas M. Knight. Knight resigned last June to become a vice president of the Radio Corporation of America. Sanford, who
served as governor from 1961 to 1964, is also a member of the Davidson College Board of Visitors.

THE PRICE OF KNOWLEDGE

Sophomore Frank Dana examines two of the volumes on sale early this week in the Alpha Phi Omega Used Book
Sale. Dana and other APO members held the sale in the college union, taking a 10 percent commission on all
sales.

---

Hoyt Calls ‘Dolly’ Flashy, Execrable

There are three kinds of people who should see “Hello, Dolly.” Those who adore Barbra Streisand. Those who enjoy big,
flashy, expensive musicals. And those who have execrable taste. Those who have always been enthralled by Streisand’s singing will not
be disappointed in this, her second movie. She imparts to each of her songs a glow, color, and freshness one
wouldn't have thought possible, considering that they’ve been heard since 1964 when the Broadway production opened with Carol Channing in
the title role. Since then there have been two Dollies: Ginger Rogers and Pearl Bailey. For sheer musicality, Miss Streisand
certainly will be remembered the longest of the four. However, her singing fails to compensate for her performance. She lacks
the oomph of Pearl Bailey, the razzmatazz of Ginger Rogers, and, most important, the warmth of Carol Channing. Throughout the
movie, she looks and acts as if butter wouldn't melt in her mouth. Part of this is not Miss Streisand’s
fault. The original sin was selecting her for the part in the first place; she’s too young and too self-centered.
Throughout the movie, she appears to very much enjoy being Barbra Streisand. And she, like everything else in the film,
is so big, so important, and so expensive, that the director has failed to demand of her a performance which
would be more in keeping with the story. What else is big, important, and expensive? For one thing, the sets.
A turn-of-the-century New York was built, complete with trolley tracks and period skyscrapers, looking much better in lavish Metrocolor than
it ever could have in reality. A splendidly garish fin de siècle restaurant was constructed for Barbra’s dining and dancing.
It’s the sort of place where the food and decor are uniformly mediocre and the prices uniformly exorbitant. A big,
important, and expensive parade was mounted, complete with marching bands, floats, and men’s fraternal associations. It’s all very impressive—literally a
cast of thousands, all beautifully costumed but somehow pointless. The movie is a marvelous compendium of all the worst that
the big Hollywood companies have to offer. Everyone forgot that putting on a great parade is not synonymous with, nor
contributory to, making a great movie. Even the editing and cinematography are dull. No one who saw “Funny Girl” can
forget the magnificent way the first half ended: Miss Streisand in a flowing pink dress standing on the bridge of
a tugboat steaming out of New York Harbor as the camera suddenly zoomed back to give the audience a beautiful
overview. This same device has been used at least five times in “Hello, Dolly,” presumably on the theory that if
one is good, five are five times better. The movie never reaches a climax, so if you aren’t one of
the three categories above, stay away or be disappointed.
