s) (Staff photo by ae A_

PASSING ACQUAINTANCE
Pika quarterback passes to David Stimpson in IMAC flickerball action against the Indies.

Lester Strong Traded Basketball For WBTV Mike And Camera
By JOE EARLE
Sports Writer

Playing basketball and working on academic problems isn’t all a Davidson basketball star finds to do. Lester Strong is a
prime example of the outside interests and abilities of the sports personnel. Strong worked this past summer as a newscaster
for WBTV in Charlotte. Strong, who will probably fill Jerry Kroll's position, was a daily contributor to what he termed
the largest and most viewed news broadcast in the Southeast.

The reporter involved in the makings of a large news program had varied tasks. He must do his own writing,
directing, editing, and has to learn to develop his abilities to handle an interview to a high degree. “Most of
the time we worked with a cameraman in units of two. You can’t overemphasize how important that guy is to
the reporter,” Strong commented while watching the program of which he was once an integral part. “Together you and he
are working on the same bit of news and working toward creating your own little piece of art.”

“What can be bad,” he went on, “is when you don't get a cameraman to help on a story, particularly
an interview. That means you do all the recording, visuals, and sound yourself and it gets hard to talk to
people when you're draped in equipment.”

When asked the most interesting event he ever covered, Strong recalled both his trip to the Pop Festival at Love
Valley last July and his interview with Lieutenant Governor Pat Taylor. “Taylor handled himself quite well, and was interesting.”

Flickerball Standings (through Sept. 30)
BS Division A
1. Delts
2. Machis
3. SAE’s
4. ATO’s
5. East II
6. Cannon II
7. Pi Kapps
8. Sigma Nu’s
9. KA’s

DIVISION B
1. SPE’s 6-0
2. Kappa Sigs 4-0
3. Pikas 3-1
4. Betas 3-2
5. Gamms 2-2
6. Watts-Belk 1-3
7. Indies 1-3
8. East I 0-4
9. Cannon I 0-4

The Kappa Sigs picked up a key win in their drive for the championship of Division B in IMAC flickerball
by dealing the Pikas a 32-26 setback this Wednesday. Frank Clark led the Sigs in their come-from-behind win. Clark intercepted
a Blair Abee pass to set up the Sigs' first TD, later stole the ball from the Pika passer for
another, and then was involved in another scoring play. The Pikas jumped to an early lead, 21-6, before the Sigs
pulled ahead midway through the second half. Clark’s steal put the Sigs in front to stay.

The Delts (5-0) continue to dominate Division A by taking a 48-0 victory over the Pi Kapps on Wednesday. The
SPE’s stretched their streak to six by defeating Cannon I, 46-6.

The Davidsonian
October 2, 1970
Page Seven

Slade Signed By Richmond: Colts Offer Him Job In ’71
By A. W. TURNER
Assistant Sports Editor

Down but not out. That old cliché well describes the struggles of last year’s Southern Conference football Player of the
Year, Gordon Slade, to make an NFL team. The former Davidson standout was picked in the annual college draft last
year by the Baltimore Colts. He spent the summer in training camp with them.

“Training camp was not as physically tiring as you might think,” said Slade. “But mentally it was really rough. There’s
a lot to learn.” The Colts kept him on their taxi squad."…and informative," he said, "and it was one of
the best interviews I did."

The news department of a station such as WBTV is a large complex machine of reporters, editors, rewriters, secretaries, and
all the paraphernalia of any large industry. From this group, Strong commented particularly on the fine abilities of Al Dale,
who handles the daily Answer Man, and E. J. Underwood. He called these men two of the hardest working reporters.

FOOTBALL WEEKEND
ORDER A BASKET BEFORE AND AFTER THE GAME FOR CHICKEN, SHRIMP, OR FISH
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE ©
Kentucky Fried Chicken
503 S. Broad, Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 664-1505

Strong first began with WBTV two years ago as a floor cameraman. "They knew who I was," he said, "and
they ran a test on a voice tape and then offered me the job. I would love to do it
again. It is both fascinating and rewarding."

Even with a full schedule keyed to the news department of WBTV, Strong still retained his basketball shape. He said
he played regularly with players from many universities who lived in the area. Practice for the Wildcat basketball team will
begin in mid-October. The season opens in December.

The work of this type would get plenty of chances to play," said Slade. In the meantime, the Colts have
already invited Slade to their 1971 training camp after he has had a year's experience in the ACL, and he
is in contact with other NFL clubs. In addition, Richmond is a "farm club" of the New Orleans Saints.

Slade was a two-sport standout at Davidson, playing the outfield well enough to make the all-conference teams his last two
years here, and he won the Southern Conference batting championship in his junior year with a .408 average. There was
speculation that perhaps since he was having his troubles in pro football that he might try baseball. But Slade flatly
stated that there was no truth to the matter. "After I left Davidson," Slade answered, "I decided not to try
baseball, and I do not regret that decision now."

Between assignments with the Colts and the Saints, Slade got a chance to see his alma mater beat Richmond 14-5,
and he had nothing but praise for the 1970 Wildcat gridders and their new head coach, Dave Fagg. "I thought
the team looked real good," he remarked. "They took advantage of Richmond's mistakes and played a steady game. They controlled
the ball. If Richmond hadn't made the mistakes that they did, it might have been a different ball game, but
they made them and Davidson took advantage of them. Coach Fagg gives all the effort in the world. I hope
he gets as much out of the team as what he gives."

OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY
NEW AND USED FURNITURE & APPLIANCES
TO MAKE YOUR ROOM MORE COMFORTABLE
SEE HOWARD & BRAWLEY FURNITURE COMPANY
PHONE 662-1881
162 N. MAIN STREET, MOORESVILLE, N. C.
