@The Davidsonian December 11, 1970 Page Seven

Suggested By ‘Committee Of 18’ (Continued From Page 6)

shall assume full financial responsibility and shall pay a sum agreed upon by direct negotiations with the houses involved.

21. The Fraternity Housing Fee shall be refunded to individuals according to established college policy, if a fraternity ceases operation during the current year.

22. No freshman shall be required to pay a Fraternity Housing Fee this year.

23. The college shall require a monthly financial report prepared by the treasurer of each house.

IMPLEMENTATION FOR SUCCEEDING YEARS

A. Mechanics:
1. Before their arrival next fall, the class of 1975 shall be randomly assigned to one of the houses, and be reassigned by the method described in I A 2 at the end of each term, and they shall self-select themselves, in the manner described in I A 3 at the end of their freshman year. This process shall be continued with every freshman class following.

2. Membership to the houses shall be made with regard to space available.

3. An upperclassman may remain at a house as long as he chooses to do so or may move at the end of any term by resubmitting himself to the self-selection process, or by trading places with a member of another house. He may remove himself from the Patterson Court Social Program at the end of any term.

4. All freshmen in the houses shall be allowed to attend meetings of the social organization in the house to which they are assigned without a vote in such meetings.

5. All sophomores, juniors, and seniors paying board and social fees shall have the right to vote in meetings of the house which they select.

6. All upperclassmen self-selected into any house shall have equal access to all privileges in the house, including membership in the national organization should one exist in the house.

7. Any house expressing its desire to remain in operation under these guidelines shall be guaranteed a house through the academic year 1971-72. It is anticipated that houses operating in 1971-72 will continue to operate as long as economically feasible. Should a house cease operations, future assignment would be on the basis of a well-conceived financial plan approved by the Student Life Committee and the Business Office.

8. Any student who eats at a house will be expected to support financially the social life at that house.

9. Any student who takes part in the social life of a house will be expected to take his meals at that house.

10. Charges for board for all upperclassmen shall be these guidelines is to prevent financial exclusion.

11. The college shall not serve as a collection agency but shall aid in collection should payment be outstanding beyond a certain time or above a certain amount, which shall be determined by the Business Office. The Business Office shall continue to offer assistance in record systems and audits.

12. The campus-wide social fee shall be paid to the college by all students to finance campus-wide social functions.

13. All money collected for such a fund shall be controlled by a representative social committee of students. The coordinator of student activities shall serve as a consultant under this system. This fund shall be administered for campus-wide activities.

14. It is recommended that programs be instituted to encourage faculty to participate in the eating and social life of the houses and that the college bear a part of the expenses in such programs.

15. It is recommended that each house should be allowed to decide whether it desires the services of a housemother. The college should, however, reserve the right to hire a hostess-dietician to serve a maximum of four houses, not desiring a housemother, the cost being borne on the basis of individual arrangement with the social organization. However, to prevent financial exclusiveness, the college will have the option to set limits on such charges.

"I can only feel that the result of a system which eliminates the heartache felt by a number of our students would represent a great advance for our sense of community." Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Sept. 28, 1970As defined by the committee:

114. A house social fee equal to the central social fee shall be collected by the college from all students who participate in the Patterson Court Social Program. These funds shall be distributed on an equal per capita basis to each house on the court. No person shall be compelled to pay any additional fee for social activity. The purpose of these funds is to support the social activities organized by the houses receiving the services.

B. Financial:
1. It is recommended that the college establish a central buying office. The manager of this office would be employed by the college in consultation with the eating houses. He would work with the houses to guarantee proper diet and quality control as well as variety and creativity in menu planning. Menus would be neither standardized nor unified. Houses would not be limited to the services of this office, but the large savings available in wholesale buying would, we feel, assure their voluntary participation. This manager might also assist the houses in the maintenance of equipment and act as their agent, where desired, in matters dealing with kitchen personnel.
2. Students shall state their intentions as to where they will eat for an entire term for purposes of guidance in buying food quantities.
3. The college shall require a monthly financial report prepared by the treasurer of each house.
4. Houses shall continue to manage and control themselves, certainly as to social activities and food services. The houses shall continue election of their management, i.e., those who serve as their financial agents.

GUIDELINES REGARDING FRATERNITIES OFF CAMPUS
1. The clear intent of point seven of the Trustee Resolution of October 16, 1970, is that no exclusive social organization may operate an eating or living facility off the Davidson campus.
2. For fraternities moving off campus in the academic year 1970-1972, Fraternity House Fee payments will be covered by I B 21.
3. The college shall not assume any financial obligations of a fraternity moving off campus.
4. The college shall continue to give record-keeping assistance to a fraternity if desired.

GUIDELINES REGARDING HOUSES WHICH ELECT TO DISCONTINUE
1. Houses which are vacated shall be reassigned as described in II A 7.
2. The membership of a house which elects to discontinue shall not be required to enter a new house, but they may self-select themselves if they so desire, following the guidelines laid down in II A 3.
3. For houses electing to discontinue during the academic year 1970-71, Fraternity House Fee payments shall be covered under I B 21.

It is important that these guidelines not be viewed as a final solution. The long-range plans of the Student Life Committee Report on Social Life should be constantly reexamined. The true future of Davidson social life lies in small group living in residence halls and small group eating in dining halls. The Social Patterns Commission, the AED, and the Student Life Committee have been particularly aware of this fact.

PRE-CHRISTMAS SALE
THE RED HANGER
DAVIDSON, N.C.

WINTER SUITS | SPORT COATS
Reg. SALE | Reg. SALE
80.00 - - - - - 64.15 | 60.00 - - - - - 44.75
90.00 - - - - - 69.75 | 65.00 - - - - - 44.75
95.00 - - - - - 69.75 | 70.00 - - - - - 49.75

WINTER SLACKS
Reg. SALE
15.00 - - - - - 9.75
16.00 - - - - - 11.75
20.00 - - - - - 13.75
21.00 - - - - - 14.75
22.50 - - - - - 15.75

WE ALSO HAVE A LARGE SELECTION OF OTHER GIFT ITEMS
SHIRTS FROM $7.50
TIES FROM $3.50
THE RED HANGER
DAVIDSON, N.C.