Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
OCTOBER 9, 1970

On Drug Enforcement

Although THE DAVIDSONIAN published the Student Life Committee’s (SLC) suggestions on the revision of the official college attitudes toward drug law enforcement before they were officially released, it seems a shame that such prolonged secrecy was felt necessary by officials on the SLC. If anything, the changes would create a much more realistic and much healthier official climate concerning the widespread phenomenon of campus drug use. Certainly, Davidson should not put itself in the position of condoning the use of illegal drugs until the attitudes of society change currently unreasonable drug laws. Davidson cannot, however, take upon itself the position of enforcing existing drug laws. The evidence and reasoning of the SLC concerning this matter are quite sound and should be accepted. As to the attitude which the college should take toward drug users, it seems that here also the SLC is on quite sound principles when it suggests that a system of counseling would be more valuable than a system of punishment. What we need is not a community of narcs but a community of understanding and responsible freedom.

Dorms On The Move

Spurred by the recent discussions on Davidson’s fraternity system, debate on social institutions at this campus has begun to touch events once accepted as facts of life beyond question.

We wholly endorse the suggestion to end the practice of moving students out of dorms to provide dates with housing on big weekends.

DICK ANDERSON
ANN RIE

Politicians, Southern-Style

President Nixon ought to like the Movement for a New Congress (MNC): it definitely involves students in the system.

The system Davidson's MNC—a typical Davidson turnout of seven plus one professor on a Saturday morning—got involved in was rural North Carolina politics, of the sixth district variety. Rural politics is in its own way as traditional and protocol-bound as any diplomatic function. Saturday was the opening of the Democratic headquarters in Concord, an opportunity to bring together all the faithful and to present the candidates of the party from the area; incidentally, it was also a chance for the seven of us to ‘meet the candidate’ we will be working for.

On a side table were cookies, Fritos, potato chips, and other goodies along with a variety of soft drinks I had never seen before; the cheesecake that is so indispensable a part of politics was provided by the hostess of the headquarters, on whom someone had apparently painted a knit dress. A local Negro churchman provided the invocation, or rather demand for God’s help in assuring the victory of the righteous forces, i.e., the Democratic party.

In spite of student cries that “nothing is anymore,” facts and figures argue for this most necessary and worthwhile change. If spaces are available in the town for dates and if it is indeed true that often spaces available for girls are left vacant on big weekends, there seems to be no worthwhile reason to inconvenience students by moving them out of dorms “for their own convenience.” It would be far more valuable to house the dates elsewhere and to allow students to entertain as they normally would in their regular dorm rooms. Allowing students dorm privileges on big weekends would also end part of the disparity of opportunity between the fraternity member and the independent, since the latter may depend on and prefer entertainment in his dorm room to that available elsewhere for Davidson’s socially underprivileged majority.

Cecil Burney, however, has probably hit the major question concerning the entire social system of the big weekends when he suggests that perhaps they should be ended completely. Big weekends are, let’s face it, just too big. They are tiring, too disruptive of academic life, and more a hindrance than a help to a relationship. A more valuable expenditure would be for more frequent and more regular social events.activities. Such events would promote the more casual relationship that could be extended as a matter of choice rather than necessity.

‘PARANOIA’ hes, OPP ~ Democrats in their struggle for good. He meant it, too; across town in the Republican headquarters there are no blacks. “I sure am glad to see all you Democrats,” said the M.C., and began presenting candidates for local judgeships, high sheriff, state senator, etc. Being neither a Democrat nor a Carolinian, I was getting bored, especially since a nondescript little guy was blocking my view of the hostess. Then that nondescript was introduced as a candidate for the U.S. Congress and gave his prepared speech to the hopeful. As his campaign manager Elvin Jackson, brother of the professor who had accompanied us, William E. Jackson, had assured us beforehand, Clifton Blue was not an especially inspiring speaker.

Blue is not precisely the sort of candidate one envisages the MNC campaigning for. Not only is he not glamorous, he is not even liberal, except conceivably by sixth district standards. Blue may be a pusillanimous pussy-footer on the war, but he opposes busing of school children to achieve racial balance and answered our question about his stance on a volunteer army by admitting he does not have one because he does not know anything about the question. But Blue is, as his campaign manager also assured us before we met him, an appealing candidate. For one thing, he was impressively straightforward in dealing with us. He did not make any effort to present himself as anything other than what he was: a candidate with a rural constituency who is concerned about Vietnam but more interested in interest rates and insurance legislation.

LETTER

The effort to elect Cliff Blue is well worthwhile in a way which exemplifies the workings of traditional Southern politics. Blue’s opponent, Earl Ruth, is a man who has a 100% rating from the Americans for Congressional Action, a group which rates Congressmen on how they voted from a conservative point of view. “I’m with the President when he’s right and against him when he’s wrong,” Ruth told a conservative Washington newspaper, meaning he opposes Nixon’s welfare plan and the Administration’s enforcement of civil rights legislation. Blue furthermore explained that integration was the law of the land and that therefore he supported it. Blue is 59 years old and was a rural publisher before being elected to the North Carolina Legislature; integration does not fit with his background, but he does not try to block off the recognition that it is right.

Let Fraternities Perish Quietly

To The Editor:

In a recent issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, it was stated that only 475 or so people were still in fraternities. If Davidson has only 1,000 persons enrolled, and there are 250 freshmen, then approximately 63% of eligible students are in fraternities. The article also stated that last year, about 100 people went inactive. How many of these came during the Sigma Chi controversy? Several, I'm sure. (Many of them were possibly seniors, who went inactive in the last few months of school to avoid having to pay a bill.)

According to THE DAVIDSONIAN, about 21 or so persons have gone inactive this year. Could it be that most of these were people who have just come back from the Junior Year Abroad program? The year abroad tends to interest people in other things than fraternities. Apparently, many have dropped out in the past after coming back.

Last year it was my understanding that there was a provision whereby if a fraternity had less than 30 members for 3 years, it forfeited its house. Any house in which this occurred could be turned into an eating club, or whatever. This seems like a provision for letting the fraternities die. If they are dying, as people say, why not let them die naturally?

Randy Webster ’73
Davidson College