Page Four February 6, 1970

Phi Beta Kappa Taps 7

William Bowen Griffith is a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary chemistry fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Delta premed fraternity, served on
the Student Course Critique Committee last year, the Davidson College Traffic Court, and as a Student Bookstore Evaluation Committee member.
Everette Theodore Mullen Jr., holder of the Staley Scholarship, participated in sophomore and freshman track, and has worked as a
part-time maintenance employee for the college. Tad Williams Lowdermilk is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, has participated on
the sailing team, and is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-med fraternity and Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary chemistry fraternity.
Leon Stagg Newman Jr. is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity, participates on the cross country and track
teams, is in the D-Club, and is currently Chairman of the Regulations Court. James Butler Puckett is a member of
Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity, has participated on the track and cross country teams, and is a member of Alpha
Epsilon Delta pre-med fraternity and Gamma Sigma Epsilon honorary chemistry fraternity. Marvin Mahan Ellison has worked with STEP, a program
as a group leader and executive committee member, has served on the SGA General Affairs Committee and the Student Course
Evaluation Committee. Robert R. Gottfried, an economics major, is a member of Omicron Delta Epsilon honorary economics fraternity, has served
on the SGA Constitution Revision Committee, and is a member of the Wind Ensemble.

Court Begins Traffic Enforcement

By JOHN McLEAN Managing Editor

The Davidson College Traffic Court heard its first case of the academic year last Tuesday. Or rather, it tried to
hear its first 30 cases. For a while, it looked as if every car-owner in the school and city would
show up to contest a parking ticket. The court had originally planned to meet for fifteen minutes during chapel period
Tuesday morning, but instead, it took up the whole hour and only half the pending cases. The traffic jam in
the court came because the court had not even been appointed until the week before, and also because campus traffic
regulations had not been enforced until January 27. During the fall term, there was no traffic court because the College
administration and the SGA senate could not decide between them who would be responsible for its operation. During the intervening
period of grace, few parking tickets were given out, and none could have been enforced if contested. However, on January
22, Business Manager Robert A. Currie sent a letter to students which warned that new and stiffer parking regulations would
be enforced. A traffic court was appointed: Malcolm O. Partin, professor of history, and freshman senator Gerry Bello. The regulations
stipulated, among other things, that a first offense would carry a two-dollar fine, the second a five-dollar fine, and the
third a ten-dollar charge. After the third offense, the student would probably be asked to keep and use his car
elsewhere than on campus. Students who appeared in court to contest parking tickets protested that there were not enough parking
places on campus—at least not enough which were convenient to the dorms. The Dean's office finally settled on a figure
of 530 parking places for student cars. Previous counts had ranged from unofficial counts of about 500 to Security Officer
E. N. Linker's estimate of 600 made a couple of weeks earlier. At the date of Currie’s letter, 477 student
parking permits had been issued. The traffic court seemed more lenient in its review of cases than the “tough line”
parking policy had led many to expect. An unofficial count showed only four convictions out of 14 tickets contested in
the first session.

Trustees (Continued From Page 1)

President Spencer said that its implementation would involve an addition of two members to the staff of the Admissions Office,
one of whom will be black. He pointed out that an increase in black faculty members also would be desirable
but that here, as in the case of recruiters, a number of difficulties stood in the way of success, among
them pressure from all-black colleges and universities to refrain from draining them of faculty. The Trustees also made a resolution
supporting the idea of coeducation “at such time as this is judged by the Board to be economically and educationally
feasible.” Chairman Lingle noted that the report of the Commission on Coeducation was unacceptable for economic reasons, in that the
construction involved is beyond the present means of the college. With regard to the college's future development, a final resolution
was passed which supported the AED’s recommendations on the development of the North Campus. It also supported the growth of
the student body to a size of 1500-1600.

Spencer Details Purposes Of Duke Endowment Money

A grant of $305,000 from the Duke Endowment for improvements in Davidson's educational programs and physical plant was announced Tuesday
by College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. In explaining the grant to Davidson's Trustees, Spencer said that the funds were
made available by the trustees of the Duke Endowment for several specific purposes. $125,000 will be appropriated for faculty and
staff compensation, to allow the college to compete more favorably in securing and holding the kind of professors, key administrative
officials, and non-academic personnel necessary for Davidson's challenging future. The library will receive $62,000 to aid in the current program
of increased acquisitions and to expand resources for non-Western Studies. The college will acquire a new system, including a computer,
an optical scanner, and an information storage system, and $45,000 will go for that purpose. $10,000 of the fund will
help finance increased faculty research at American universities and abroad. A sum of $20,000 from the endowment will be spent
to improve the college's physical plant.Over the long run, Lingle emphasized the long-term nature of the plans, stating that they
would be completed as funds become available. The Trustees also approved the suggestion that the new Library-Learning Center be located
south of the present Lingle Manor.

To win a heart... is to give a heart, and we have all kinds for you to choose from: frilly,
frivolous, spectacular, and penny Valentines. It just takes one quick stop at our Valentine shop to let Ambassador be “your
personal envoy of good taste.” THE VILLAGE STORE, Davidson, N.C.

At the court's first session, Bello seemed willing to accept almost any excuse. Partin generally followed Bello’s lead in decisions
to acquit. Excuses ranged from ambiguity over time limits on parking spaces in the Belk turnaround to claims that “someone
rolled my car out so they could play basketball (in the lot across from Kappa Sigma house).”

WESTERN AUTO Main St., Davidson, N.C. Phone 892-1496

The college will also continue the renovation, repainting, and refurnishing of the dormitories, and a new fire alarm system is
planned. These improvements will upgrade the exteriors of buildings and improve standards of maintenance “in the interest of economy and
efficiency.” The cost of $40,000 will come from the endowment grant.

“The continuing support of the Duke Endowment is invaluable to Davidson,” President Spencer commented. “It helps to guarantee that we
will maintain and improve our quality level in an era when inflation and high costs are creating financial problems for
all independent colleges.” Since 1924, the Duke Endowment has provided financial assistance to Davidson, Duke, Furman, and Johnson C. Smith
Universities. It also supports non-profit hospitals and child-caring institutions in North and South Carolina.

Wackman Group Plans Environment Teach-In
By DAN GRAHAM, Staff Writer

Each year, America consumes 1.5 billion tons of fuel and 1 billion tons of minerals, food, and forest goods, and
pours 200 million tons of waste into the air. Spearheaded by freshman John Wackman, a student creativity group is organizing
an environmental symposium in April, followed by a limited program on April 22 to coincide with the national Environmental Teach-In,
and a program in the last week of May emphasizing folk music performances, dramatic production, and movies as constituting the
last phase.

“One of the main goals of the teach-in,” Wackman explains, “is to get a lot of student involvement. We want
to emphasize individual efforts.” He has secured the support of a number of members of the faculty and administration, including
Dr. Nelson, associate professor of economics, and Earl W. Lawrimore, Director of the News Bureau.

Dr. Nelson says, “I am terribly enthusiastic about this teach-in. I see pollution as one of our most gravely serious
problems. I think the teach-in is a highly commendable educational endeavor.” She feels that the teach-in is directed to students,
who will be in a position to remedy pollution problems in the next few years. She points to the national
effect concern has had already, causing President Nixon to recommend increased federal expenditures for pollution control.

Strong (Continued From Page 1)

“Many of the jobs we prepare for now will not even exist by the time our preparation is over. But
people still go to school looking for security. Education and training can be exciting, as you get to know more
about yourself. However, this is the most difficult thing in the world to accomplish. I feel that the role of
everybody is to give consideration to a diligent search for truth.”

Strong proceeded to relate a story of a man who had lied about the cost of a pair of boots.
As time progressed, he began to feel resentment and eventually hatred and guilt. The point he was trying to make
was that lies are often used to facilitate the quest for truth. The lies produce guilt and hate, which are
the most corrosive elements in our society.

“Everything you say is a lie unless it coincides with what you do,” he declared. “And how much of life
do you give up when you lie? If I'm hiding myself, then I'm hurting myself. The individual must determine what
being alive really means. Does it run smoothly without waves? Have you ever in your life tried to make everybody
happy? It’s impossible! At best, you can be 100% sincere. Consequently, I realize I must do things which set well
with me; yet, many people who come in contact with me don’t agree and will conceal anxieties under the guise
of not making waves. I call this ‘psychic contortions,’ involving an inversion of our priorities.”

Send a LoveBundle for Valentine’s Week. Why squeeze a lot of love into just one day? Order a LoveBundle to
arrive early. It’s a unique arrangement designed to stretch Valentine’s Day into a week because the flowers will last. A
special Valentine. Only at FTD florists. At a special price. Usually available at $12.50 or less. As an independent businessman,
each FTD Member Florist sets his own prices.

ANSWER MAN BOB STONE
Is it true all life insurance costs pretty much the same?
A: Definitely not! There is a wide variation in the net cost of life insurance among companies. I'd like to
take this opportunity to familiarize you with the term “net cost” as defined by a leading insurance journal. Flitcraft Courant
indicates that net cost should be arrived at by first adding up all dividends received. To then, add the cash
value of the policy at a given time. And from that total, subtract the sum of all premiums paid. The
difference is the net cost of life insurance. This is the basis the Courant uses for its “Ten-Year Cost Study,”
which shows Northwestern Mutual Life as a national leader in low net cost among major life insurance companies. For your
free copy of this authoritative report, just phone or write me. And at your convenience, let’s get together for the
full story on the savings you may realize through NML.

Robert T. Stone
Representing The NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE Insurance Company
North Main 892-1424
