New ‘Y’ Formation to Feature Fullback, Linemen
By DICK DOWNEY
Sports Writer

A new coach, a new offense, and a partly new team—these are the characteristics of next year's Davidson football team.
Head coach Dave Fagg is optimistic about every aspect of his team, now engaged in spring practice. According to Fagg,
last year’s championship was “no fluke” for the ‘Cats. The present team still has a “championship attitude” and right now
the team “is working as hard as they possibly can" in an effort to prepare to repeat as Southern Conference
champions.

A new look has come to the Wildcat offense with the much-heralded “wishbone offense” or Y-formation—the same offensive set used
by the University of Texas. Fagg is quick to point out that the Wildcats will use a modified style of
the Y-offense in which the fullback, who is set closer to the line than usual, can be deployed easily. The
Texas offense runs from a straight Y without altering the fullback’s set position. This offense takes a hard-running fullback and
a tough, quick line to block for him. The ‘Cats have both ingredients: an experienced line and Mike Mikolayunas, who
returns from last season as a veteran fullback, backed up by Rich Neal and Drew White.

Besides running inside power plays, the offense can just as easily adjust to a wide-open passing attack by splitting both
ends and moving the fullback to a slotback or a flankerback. The triple-option, one of the most difficult but effective
plays in football, is also a major weapon in this formation. Wofford used it very effectively last year as they
nipped the Wildcats 28-27.

It looks like next year's starting quarterback will be Mark Thompson. Thompson, a senior next year, was praised by Fagg
as “an outstanding athlete with tremendous desire.” The question remains whether or not he can fill Gordon Slade’s shoes. Fagg
seems to believe that he can. Thompson can throw as well as run a good triple-option. He will be backed
up by Rick Kemmerlin and Scotty Shipp. Shipp is the number one punter on the team and could be effectively
used for shotgun formations, punting tricks, or quick kicks.

Fagg feels that an offense as flexible as this can keep the opposing defense a step behind. However, he expressed
the fear that Davidson’s defense would be caught short in a similar manner by other teams. But he did not
hesitate to commend several members of the defensive unit. Dumich was cited as an outstanding defensive back with good hands
and speed. Chris Giles and Montgomery will call the defensive signals at middle linebacker. Fagg's top two men on the
front line will probably be tackle Ken Totherow and “imposing” Ricky Snipes, a 6-7 defensive end.

The Southern Conference is shaping up to be a real dogfight next year, with several teams looking as if they
could take the title. Fagg indicated that several teams have good potential. East Carolina has a new, young coaching staff
with dynamic offensive ideas. Richmond has several junior college transfers, plus quarterback Charlie Richards, who returns from last season. VMI's
undefeated freshman team of last season will be coming up. He also noted that William and Mary should make up
for lack of ability with their tough schedule—tougher than any team’s line-up in their class. Fagg promised that no one
team in the conference would run away with the title next season. He couldn't say exactly what he felt Davidson’s
chances would be in the race.

A CHAMPION’S CHAMPION
David Weaver wins a point in the SC tourney.

Lyon Leads ’Cats To Surprise Fifth As Indians Dominate SC Track Meet
By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

Davidson made a surprisingly strong showing last weekend in the Southern Conference track meet as the Wildcats ran up 21
points and finished in fifth place. William and Mary once again dominated the meet, racking up 116 points to far
outdistance the field. Furman edged East Carolina for second, 53½ to 52, with The Citadel picking up a point in
the final event of the meet to total 22 points and nip Davidson for fourth place.

Slade Candidate For Top Athlete, Indicates Pro Future With Colts
By RICK BUSH
Sports Writer

Closing out his career as a collegiate athlete this week, two-sport star Gordon Slade is again leading the Wildcats baseball
team in nearly every offensive category. This is of course not an unusual or uncomfortable position for the husky left
fielder, for it’s been three years since someone other than Slade held the title of Davidson's ‘Big Stick.’

“Gordon should be the conference Athlete of the Year.” This is the way Coach Tom Stevens describes Slade’s value to
the baseball team, and the regard he has for his achievements of the past three years. Slade has been at
the .400 level since the Furman doubleheader and the Eastern Baptist game. Despite his lower average this year, Stevens pointed
out that Slade has driven in more runs this year than ever before. “Gordon's a real fine athlete, one of
the best we've ever had at Davidson,” said Stevens. “Gordon is a line drive hitter, he doesn’t try to lift
the ball. Sometimes I wish he'd hit the long ball, we need someone who is a real threat,” Stevens added.

There is nothing in Slade's record to belie Stevens’ statement. He has led the team in hitting, with averages of
.429, .369, and .333. He is a two-year unanimous All Southern Conference selection, with a strong chance of repeating this
year. In a hotbed of college baseball, he has made the All District 3 team for two years, again with
a good chance of repeating.

His teammates are hesitant to honor Slade, not the team’s lone senior.

College-Sponsored Camps Slated For Summer Activity

The campus will be alive this summer as college-sponsored clinics for basketball, tennis, and baseball will be offered. For the
tennis and baseball camps, this will be the first year of operation, while the sixth annual Wildcat Basketball Camp is
under new administrative controls. In the past, the basketball camp was an individual undertaking of coach Lefty Driesell, who made
financial arrangements with the college for the use of campus facilities. The camp was a purely personal undertaking with Driesell
taking all the profits. This year the basketball camp, as are the two other camps, is run entirely by the
school. The instructors in the camps, including the Davidson coaches and their assistants, are under a salary arrangement with the
college.

According to Athletic Director Tom Scott, all the coaches were given the opportunity to have a summer camp and only
the three who have camps scheduled responded. “It is designed primarily to make use of the resources of the college,”
said Scott. “It gives the coaches a job on campus and in Davidson rather than at a camp somewhere else.
The two main reasons for the camps are that it gives the coaches summer employment and it is a service
for our alumni who have children who wish to enroll, as well as being a service to sports.”

Athletic Business Manager Col. Frederick P. Outlaw added thoughts on the benefits of the camps for the college. “This program
keeps some of the staff here on campus during the summer and gives them a chance to see how the
facilities may be used for the fall physical education program.” “It's not a project to make a big profit for
the school.” Outlaw estimated that the applications for the basketball camp have reached about 60% of the total capacity. The
tennis registration rests at about the same figure. Outlaw noted that there is heavy competition this year from other camps,
“Everyone seems to have the idea that they can open a camp and make a lot of money.” According to
Outlaw, the baseball camp “is not filling as fast.” About 30% of the camp's capacity is enrolled. “As of now
we're not ready to cancel it,” said Outlaw. “If by about May 20, we don't have enough people to meet
expenses, we'll have to make a decision.”

The tennis camp will accommodate about 100, the basketball camp about 600, and the baseball camp 80-100. The participants in
camp programs will be housed in Belk and Watts dormitories, with the counselors and several staff members living with them.
The college is also negotiating for the use of the Davidson Elementary Gym in case of bad weather. Outlaw said
that the gyms in North Mecklenburg High School and Alexander Junior High might also be used for the indoor workouts
in the event of protracted rainy weather.

Rendezvous in La Roma
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALYHe was elected captain for this season and has been elected the team’s Most Valuable Player
for three years. Add to all of these the honors he has earned in football, and it is not hard
to see why Stevens is pushing his star for the conference’s top award. Drafted this past winter by the Baltimore
Colts of the National Football League, Slade has for all intents and purposes decided to pursue that track into professional
athletics. “I'm going to sign with Baltimore in about three weeks. I don't think any baseball team will be willing
to pay me enough to keep me from playing football.” Although he has tried to give equal attention to both
sports while at Davidson, Slade admits to a slight preference for football. However, the big factor in his choice of
pro football is his already late start into a baseball career: “It takes five years to make the big leagues.
It's so important to get started at 17 or 18." So, Slade’s choice of a college education was also his
choice of football over baseball. He says that it’s a decision he won't regret, both because of his success in
football and the value of the education he has received. “Now, I want to think about playing football as long
as I can, so I don't want to think any more about baseball! However, one of the reasons I came
here was the chance to play baseball in the South.” “And we’re glad he did,” concluded Stevens.

Charlotte, at La Roma Ristoranti: Charlotte, N.C. - Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The Davidsonian May 8, 1970 Page Three

With the Southern Conference championship safely under their belts, the Davidson netters will be trying to close out their season
with the best record in Davidson history this afternoon. Coach Harry Fogleman will send his team to face Wofford on
the home courts today with a 20-1 mark and a chance to finish at 21-1. The Wildcats rate as a
heavy favorite. The previous best for a Davidson team was the 22-2 mark of the 1968 team led by George
Berner. The final day of the Southern Conference tournament took on the air of a match between Davidson and the
fourth. VMI wound up sixth with 16 points and Richmond had 6 points for last place. Speedster Rick Lyon paced
the Wildcats as he turned in a 1:55.4 half mile, bettering his old mark by 1.1 seconds. However, since he
was in a fast heat, he failed to reach the finals in the event. Freshman Dave Crumpler spun the discus
135 feet, his best effort of the year, although he finished sixth and did not score. Junior Steve Kirley hefted
the shot 47'6" to place fourth and uncorked his best toss of the season in the discus, 145'8", to nab
third in that event. Tommy Richardson placed fourth in the 100 at 10.0, and ran the initial leg on the
440-yard relay, contributing 2.34 points to the Davidson total. Jay Swetenburg had a disappointing meet, as he leaped only 45'5"
in the triple jump, well short of his career best of 47'8", and had to settle for fourth place. Swetenburg
had been counted upon as a possible winner in this event and continues to be plagued with injuries as Lankenau
has joined the ranks of the injured. Pierce Irby hurled the javelin 179'2" for fourth, ten feet beyond his previous
career best, giving the ‘Cats a completely unexpected two points.

John Puckett established the only school record, as he sprinted to a third place in the 100 and was second
in the 220. His time in the events were 9.8 and 22.0, respectively. Lyon also achieved the standard relay team
to third place in 42.4 seconds.

Basketballers Schedule Top Teams As New Foes

With several new opponents announced for the 1970-71 basketball season, leading the newcomers are N.C. State and Cincinnati, both home
games for Davidson. The Charlotte Invitational will include Davidson, LaSalle, Boston College, and Georgia. Only five games, four of them
with Southern Conference opponents, are slated for Johnston Gym. Eight more games and the Charlotte Invitational and Southern Conference tournaments
will be held in the Charlotte Coliseum.

January
2 William and Mary (A)
9 Furman (A)
13 Pittsburgh (A)
16 St. Joseph's (H)
19 East Carolina (A)
23 Princeton (A)
26 St. John's (H)
30 Wake Forest (H)

February
2 VMI (A)
6 West Virginia (A)
10 South Carolina (H)
13 Richmond (A)
17 Duke (A)
20 Furman (H)
22 Citadel (H)
27 George Washington (H)

March
3-5 Southern Conference Tournament

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 to 10:30
Phone 892-2111 Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N.C.

LUNCH BOX SPECIAL ONLY 89¢
2 Pieces of Chicken
Potatoes & Gravy
Slaw & Rolls
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken.
503 S. Broad Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 664-1505

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Needs An Advertising Manager For The Remainder Of This Year And Next Year. Pay Will Be On A Commission Basis.
You Must Have Access To A Car. Good Experience For Economics Majors. If Interested See: Ted Heefner Little 411 Or
Leave A Note In The Newspaper Office

SPECIAL AT THE RED HANGER
All Of Our Regular Stock Of Buckle Shoes Now 20% OFF
THE RED HANGER
DAVIDSON, N.C.
