Page Four, February 20, 1970

Up ’n Coming

Friday, February 20
7:58 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room “The Sand Pebbles”
8:15 p.m.

Saturday, February 21
Drama Production: “MacBeth” Hodson Hall 8:30 p.m.
Indoor Track: Chapel Hill Big 7 Meet 1:30 p.m.
Basketball: Washington, D.C. Davidson vs. George Washington 2 p.m.
Varsity Wrestling: Chapel Hill Davidson vs. Chapel Hill 2 p.m.
Drama Production: Hodson Hall “MacBeth” 7:58 p.m.
Movie: Morrison Room “The Sand Pebbles” 8:15 p.m.
Drama Production: Hodson Hall “MacBeth”

Sunday, February 22
3 p.m. Drama Production: “MacBeth”

Monday, February 23
4 p.m. Open Meeting: Educational Policy Committee
Intramural Basketball Finals: All-Stars vs. Intramural Basketball Johnston Gym 7:30 p.m. 9 p.m.

Tuesday, February 24
7:30 p.m. Varsity Wrestling: Johnston Gym Davidson vs. Duke
7:58 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room “Sex and the Single Girl”

Wednesday, February 25
8 p.m. Artist Series: Love Auditorium Carlos Montoya

Thursday, February 26
1:30 p.m. Basketball: Charlotte Coliseum Southern Conference Tournament
9:30 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room “Sex and the Single Girl”

Friday, February 27
7 p.m. Basketball: Charlotte Coliseum Southern Conference Tournament
7:58 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room “Sex and the Single Girl”

Saturday, February 28
8 p.m. Basketball: Southern Conference Tournament

Sunday, March 1
4 p.m. Concert: Hodson Hall Davidson Wind Ensemble

BASIS FOR A low-income housing project in the town of Davidson known as Lakeside Park has become a model for legislation nationwide, according to a spokesman for the Farmers Home Administration. Based on the success of Davidson's program, new legislation passed by Congress and signed by the President “gives authority to rural communities to receive assistance in developing adequate building sites for low-income people,” said Robert W. Fleetwood, district supervisor of the Farmers Home Administration, a division of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Fleetwood explained the legislation in a letter to Dr. Daniel D. Rhodes, chairman of Davidson College’s religion department and an officer of the Davidson Community Development Corporation. “The mighty oak from a worn axiom,” Fleetwood wrote, “but it aptly describes what you and your committee have accomplished for the low-income people of the nation.”

Previously, rural communities (under 5,500 population) desiring to build low-income housing had first to buy and develop the land for the housing. Only then was Farmers Home able to lend money to individuals.

Students Are Approved For Junior Year Abroad

The Foreign Studies Committee has approved Davidson College sophomores to take part in next year's Junior Year Abroad program. Eighteen have been selected for France, 18 for Germany, four for Britain, two for Spain, and one for Colombia.

Those selected for study in France at the University of Montpellier on the Riviera are Jim Berger, Steve Culbertson, Ed Galloway, Todd Hobbie, Jim Jackson, Jon Jacobs, Reynolds Johnson, Dan Johnston, John Lambeth, Steve Miller, Bill Powell, Fred Rose, Curtis Smith, Charlie Terrell, Rick Van De Water, Eddie Vint, Gene Williams, and Fred Wilson.

Students to study at the University of Marburg in Marburg, West Germany are Tom Anderson, Bob Bisanar, Charles Buck, Toby Dawson, Hencken Drews, Kurt Geisinger, Gene Guill, Holcomb Heiner, Tom Howlett, Carey Michaels, Bernard Scroggins, Jack Scott, Bill Sherwood, Mike Simpson, Charlie Summers, Lewis Thompson, and Bob Wallace.

The committee has also recommended four students for study in Britain. They are Jack Hartman, Lawrence Wilkinson, Steve Cross, and Paul Nelson. Jack Hartman and Lawrence Wilkinson have been approved by the college to study next year at the University of East Anglia in Norwich. The Junior Year Abroad Program in Montpellier, Marburg, and East Anglia are arranged through the Foreign Studies Program at Davidson College.

Others have been approved to study abroad, but they must make all the admissions arrangements themselves. The students applying on their own are Steve Cross.

Committee Says Papers Should Be Independent

A commission which has been studying campus newspapers of nine campuses of the University of California has concluded that the papers studied should seek fiscal independence and should not be officially controlled by their institutions. The report of the committee said that the biggest problems of student newspapers result from inept, inexperienced, and overworked newspaper staffs. Obscenity in campus newspapers was dismissed by the report as a minor problem.

“Across the nation,” said the report, “there are abundant examples of student newspapers that have led the way in exposing evils and achieving improvements on campus and in dormitories. There are also plentiful examples of ineptness, unfairness, and other excesses. The one is the price of the other—just as in journalism at large.”

The commission was charged by Nolan E. Isaacs, executive editor of the Louisville Courier-Journal and president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors. Look magazine editor William B. Arthur, Boston Globe editor Thomas Winship, and Edward W. Barrett, director of the communications institute of the Academy for Educational Development and former dean of the graduate school of journalism at Columbia University, were also on the committee.

The commission concludes that “many of the concerns, disagreements, and exchanges of accusations within the University of California system and its student publications flow from an erroneous premise... that student publications necessarily constitute a form of official publications for which university administrators bear inherent responsibility.”

“To inhibit the questioning and probing of student journalists by the burden of official imprimatur is both unrealistic and counter-productive to the constantly proclaimed academic thrust for unfettered intellectual challenge,” said the committee in its report. It proposed, instead, that the university use occasional newsletters to “circulate official statements, interpretations, and news as appropriate on each campus.” It hastened to add that such publications “should not be used as reason or excuse for attempting to exclude student journalistic enterprise; or to discourage campus journalism; or to reduce funds presently allocated for this student activity. Nor should publication of such newsletters be so frequent or be so complete as to seem either to compete with student journalism or to relieve them of their obligations to provide full, fair, and honest news reporting.”

The commission found “only sporadic use of language difficult for the older generation to accept” in the 150 newspapers it subjected to scrutiny. According to the commission, “all those concerned with the publication of a principal campus newspaper should... think through what its role should be, agree on a basic set of principles, and then accord the editors as much freedom as possible within those principles.”

The commission then listed the specific principles:
“A clear distinction between news columns and editorial comment.”
“Endeavoring conscientiously to give the readership a full and fair report of developments on the campus or affecting the campus.”
“Faithful coverage of both sides—or, indeed, all sides—of any significant controversy.”
“Competent coverage of important administration statements in the same sense that a responsible city daily reports the statements of the mayor or the President.”
“Confining opinion to the editorial page or to signed columns.”

Montoya To Play Concert In Love

Carlos Montoya, world-famous guitarist who made flamenco music an art in itself, will present an Artist Series concert in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. Wednesday. Montoya, a Spanish gypsy born in Madrid, was a musical prodigy as a child, achieving national renown by the age of 14 during the heyday of flamenco singing and dancing in Spain.

Prior to Montoya’s time, flamenco guitarists played only brief accompaniments or chords for singers and dancers. But he was the first such guitarist to give a solo performance, improvising and expanding on the themes of the background music to make it an art in its own right. Since then he has written hundreds of flamenco pieces, but still does a great deal of improvising at each performance.

Usually, his programs feature traditional descriptive titles such as alegrías, bulerías, farrucas (all of which refer to dance rhythms); or tarantas, granainas, and peteneras (songs). Under each category, he presents a unique combination of music for each program. While the selections are all his own compositions, they all are derived from traditional themes.

Montoya has taken his flamenco music all over the world and has won thunderous applause and enraptured audiences everywhere. In addition, he has recorded many records and tapes which have been distributed around the globe.Unmistakably labeled opinion columns. Readiness to correct mistakes with reasonable prominence in the paper. Affording ample opportunity for answers to editorial opinions.

For Britain, Al Terry Hirst for Spain, and Rich Wainio for Columbia. Paul Nelson has applied to Britain and Sweden. Steve Cross has applied to the University of Exeter in Devonshire, Great Britain. "It's amazing the amount of paperwork you have to go through," he said. "I had to send them my transcripts and a photostatic copy of my birth certificate."

Al Norris and Terry Hirst have applied to the University of Madrid for one year through Georgetown University. They have not yet been accepted. Paul Nelson has applied to programs both in Britain and Sweden. Rich Wainio has been accepted by Antioch College for a Latin American studies program conducted by the Great Lakes College Association. "In the fall you go down to Bogota to the Center for North American Students, and they cram you full of Spanish," he explained. "In the spring you get to choose a university." Wainio is considering the University of the Andes in Bogota, Columbia.

Some of the students on Junior Year Abroad are also in Greek professor George Labban’s spring seminar in Classics Abroad this spring term. Rich Wainio and Lawrence Wilkinson are among this group. "I probably won't get back to Davidson for two years," said Wainio with a smile.

Norris and wishing to build and buy a home there. But the new law allows Farmers Home to lend money both for development of the land and for building on the land. "This was all an outgrowth of the Community Relations Committee set up by the mayor of Davidson in 1963," Rhodes explained. "We made a study of the needs of the community and found that for low-income individuals was a primary need. The problem was that we had to buy the land first."

Rhodes said that several town leaders set up a non-profit Davidson Community Development Corporation to buy the land. A site owned by Duke Power Company was chosen just east of town. Money for the land was loaned on an interest-free basis by Bridgeport Fabrics of Davidson. A purchase by Davidson College of a block of lots for its employees gave the corporation some starting capital.

The mighty oak from a little acorn grew is a time-worn axiom, but it aptly describes what you and your committee have accomplished for the low-income people of the nation. Recent legislation passed by the Congress of the United States and signed by the President gives authority to rural communities to receive assistance in developing adequate building sites for low-income people. This idea and accomplishment was initiated by you and your group who set the pattern for this badly needed legislation. I think it is noteworthy for the people in your community to realize that the Federal Government is sensitive to practical, workable approaches that local people initiate and carry out. Along with the Farmers Home county people, may I congratulate you again on this idea of a non-profit association being formed so that adequate sites can be developed for people in need of improved housing. Thank you especially for the contributions made by Mr. H. B. Naramore, Mr. T. S. Sadler, Mr. W. N. Mebane, and Dr. D. Grier Martin.

Very truly yours,
Robert W. Fleetwood
District Official

Counselors To Be Selected For Next Year’s Freshmen
By BILL ESKRIDGE
Staff Writer

One of the most important selection processes which goes on in Davidson College is one largely ignored, which is the selection of the freshman hall counselors. The office of student housing is giving out applications for freshman hall counselors and will continue to do so until the filing deadline—Feb. 20.

According to Mrs. Peter Nicholls, the director of student housing, at least 75 rising juniors and seniors have taken application forms, and she predicts a large number of applications for the 22-to-23 positions. Mrs. Nicholls stated, "We've been very excited and pleased with the number of applications which have been taken."

Because of the large number of expected applicants and the requirement of at least a 2.0 grade point average, the selection process will be especially rigid this year. The selection committee consists of Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr., William B. Hight Jr., director of student counseling, Union Director C. Shaw Smith, Chaplain R. Scott Woodmansee, and all graduating hall counselors. Mrs. Nicholls added, "What we look for is a genuine concern for others and their problems."

However, another prime consideration for the selection of the counselors is an estimation of the amount of time that the student could afford to spend. For instance, a student should have at least a 2.0 grade point average; otherwise, the selection board would be reluctant to consider him because his time could be better spent studying. The selection will be made on Mar. 5 and letters of acceptance will be mailed so that they will reach the student Mar. 6. Mrs. Nicholls noted, "It is heartwarming to see such a great interest by these students to fill this most crucial function. I am certain that our program will be successful next year."

Mrs. Nicholls has also sent out letters requesting students to volunteer to be the roommates of the twelve international students who come to the college each year as part of Davidson's exchange program.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson
Please contact Mrs.

WANTED
Married couple with camping experience. Good with children. As counselors at Day Camp at Roaring Gap, N. C. Private Club. Attractive salary. Room and board included. Day Camp to begin June 22 thru Sept. 4, 1970. If interested, John Gallaher at P. O. Box 3082 Winston-Salem, N. C. 27102 or call 919-725-2085. List qualifications.

Phone 892-2111
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 to 10:30
Davidson, N. C.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies
131 N. Main St.
OPEN 9-8

The Pub
MONDAY - SATURDAY
FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

PRESENTING
Enduring DIAMONDS
Graceful Contemporary Mountings
Matching Wedding Bands
SEE OUR DISPLAY
ASK ABOUT THE SAVINGS
(Collegiate Diamond Importers)
THE STUDENT STORE