Tom Buck in The Hungry I will open again Tuesday night at 8:30, featuring the Argir Group. This folk-rock trio
has received nationwide acclaim and is presently touring on the coffee house circuit. The group performs only its own material,
and the leader, Fred Argir, has recorded two albums. Thursday through Saturday, The Hungry I will have a special showing
of a movie, and the group will perform after the movie.

The nature of the connection between mathematics and the real world was the question posed by R. Greigh in two
lectures Monday. Buck, a professor of mathematics at the University of Wisconsin, gave the two lectures under the auspices of
the Piedmont Visiting Scholars Program. In handling the topic “Newton Revisited,” Buck used what he termed “abstract history,” Newton as
he should have discovered things, not perhaps as he actually did. As a mathematician, Buck traced the development of Newtonian
physics through the mathematical tools available to Newton at the time. In discussing the historical development in which Newton took
part, Buck cited Kepler's laws of motion of planets, which he termed as “empirical statements of fact.” The fundamental point
of Buck's presentation lay in the role of mathematics in explaining the world. “What is good for mathematics is good
for the world.”

Parents To Visit College
By DAVID HANIG
Staff Writer

The parents of roughly 290 Davidson freshmen are expected Saturday for Parents’ Day at Davidson College. The get-acquainted effort begins
Saturday morning with a luncheon and climaxes with a drama production written by Ben Jonson. Parents will register and purchase
lunch tickets in the Union between 9:00 and 10:00 a.m. Students will have the opportunity to introduce their professors and
faculty advisors to their parents in a coffee hour in the lobby and the Morrison Room from 10:00 to 10:45.
At the same time, the Foreign Study Committee will be in the Green Room to answer students’ and parents’ questions
about the Junior Year Abroad.

An assembly will be held in Love Auditorium for parents at 11:00 a.m. Herb Clegg and Joe Smith, freshman class
advisors, and Bill Ralston, freshman class president, will greet the parents. Chalmers professor of history, G. Davidson, will speak on
“Tradition at Davidson” followed by Acting President John M. Bevan, who will speak on “Change at Davidson.” A question and
answer period will follow.

A buffet lunch will be served from noon to 1:15 p.m. in the Chambers Banquet Hall. The football game with
Lafayette will begin at 1:30 p.m. Parents may purchase tickets before 10:00 a.m. at the ticket office in the gym.
After 10:00 a.m., tickets can be bought at the stadium ticket office. Parents may visit halls between 10:30 a.m. and
5:30 p.m. The Drama Department will present “The Alchemist” by Ben Jonson in Hodson Hall at 8:15 p.m. Admission price
is fifty cents for students.Math And The Real World

"Mathematics is good for the world. That’s not provable but it is a dream that mathematicians have all the time,"
Buck said. "Analogy is a powerful weapon in mathematics. A law is a model of reality, a good model if
it predicts reality well."

Buck pointed to the efficacy of mathematics’ relation to the real world. "It certainly seems surprising that complex physical phenomena
can be reduced to mathematical form. In a motion formula, for example, why should it be the square root rather
than some other power?

"The function explains motion, the first derivative, speed, and the second derivative, acceleration. The third derivative does not have such
a clear-cut application. Why should the second derivative handle so much of our experience?"

The Davidsonian
November 6, 1970
Page Three

Project Studies Spencer Abroad
By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer’s trip to Europe to study foreign study programs will touch on Britain, Germany, France, and
Spain. According to Vice-president for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, the trip is to evaluate Davidson's foreign study program, the
Fulbright scholars program in Europe, and other foreign study programs to see how they can be adapted to foreign study
goals.

According to a schedule put out by his office staff, Spencer left New York City Oct. 21. He visited Britain
for several days, and moved on to Bonn in the Federal Republic of Germany last Friday. While in Bonn, Spencer
visited Dr. Franz Eschbach of the Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst, Dr. Ulrich Littman of the Fulbright Commission, and Carl Erbsloh. Yesterday
Spencer moved on to Hamburg, and Sunday he will be in Berlin. Next Thursday, he will drop by Munich to
see Richard Condon and Frau Dr. Isolde Friebel of the Institut Fur Fremdsprachen. He will leave Munich on Nov. 20.

Other stops after Munich include Rothenburg, Konstanz, Freiburg, Tubingen, Heidelberg, and Mainz. On Dec. 5, Spencer is slated to visit
Tom O. Pinkerton, professor of German at Davidson College, who is with the Davidson students spending their Junior Year Abroad
at the University of Marburg. On Dec. 10, Spencer resumes his travels once again, visiting Frankfurt and Bonn-Bad Godesberg, where
he will see Dr. Eschbach again. Then follows a swing through Paris and Montpellier, where several Davidson students are spending
their Junior Year Abroad. The Montpellier leg of the trip is still unconfirmed. He is scheduled to be home in
time for Christmas.

"The Tailored Idea" in Double-Breasted Suits by Union — PANTS EAST
1522 East Fourth St.
"largest selection of flares, jeans, bell-bottoms in Charlotte"
Owned & Operated by people who know what you want.

THE RED HANGER
DAVIDSON, N. C.
