The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR NOVEMBER 13, 1970

A Worthwhile Option

It cannot be denied that the maligned and misunderstood Extended Studies program offers the student far more opportunity for innovation
than the Blue Sky program ever did. In addition to passing area exams, the student may opt to take extra
courses, study guided by extensive reading lists, or initiate and complete special projects.

It is this last option which we would like to emphasize here, especially to the freshmen and sophomores. Recently there
have been a number of announcements around Davidson describing independent study projects which various students have been able to arrange.
These are perhaps the most encouraging educational development at Davidson since the Blue Sky Program was first conceived. President Spencer
and Vice President Bevan have commented several times this year that they hope to expand special and off-campus study opportunities
extensively in the near future. Yet these projects give the student that type of freedom and opportunity now. And anyone
with the chance would be seriously weakening his education if he did not grasp the opportunity now.

As we have pointed out in these columns before, the Davidson education is too often undeserving of the name. If
the underclassmen have not realized that by now, they should ask upperclassmen. Chances are, few could be found who are
satisfied with the course structure of education at Davidson. They are for the most part tired of “taking” a course,
being “given” information, guessing the word in the professor’s head, or attending 75 percent of their class meetings under punishment
of failure.

But now there is a way out. To be sure it is a way that requires a little extra time
in planning, a little extra foresight in goals, a little extra imagination in execution—in short, a little thought. Initiating a
truly unique and independent extended studies project would not be as easy as taking a course, but it might be
a lot more educational.

End National Shame

It seems that the searching examination of our lives and the reconciliation of our tensions which should have come from
the tragedies at Kent State and Jackson State last spring will continue to elude us for some time to come.
A summary of the FBI report on Kent State as reported in last Monday’s “Chronicle of Higher Education” reveals several
important contradictions with the findings of an Ohio grand jury investigation which indicted 25 students but no National Guardsmen two
weeks ago.

Mainly the FBI report does not justify the killings by the guardsmen as did the grand jury report; and it
goes so far as to say that there is “some reason to believe that the claim by the National Guard
that their lives were endangered by the students was fabricated subsequent to the event.” It is a shame that the
Ohio report should have been so misguided as to place blame on the students and Kent State administration alone.

Perhaps much better wisdom is to be found in the Scranton Report on campus unrest which stated, “Out of our
divisions, we must now recreate understanding... Violence must end... Reconciliation must begin... We must start. All of us.”

Give Us A Voice

We were reminded recently that besides the obvious for self-scheduled exams, not very much has been done by our student
senate during the course of the fall term. It was pointed out at the same time that at Connecticut College
students have won the right to sit in equal number with faculty and with full voting privileges on nine standing
committees including admissions, administration, academic scheduling, and college development.

The disparity in student representation and effectiveness in promoting change in the two cases is great. We can only urge
the Committee on Campus Governance to abandon presently unacceptable student power structures and replace them with a system which gives
students a real voice on this campus. History should not pass us by.

PAUL ROWLAND

“Leopards Outscore Defenseless Davidson, 53-34” the Sunday Observer headline read. (And they were right. Davidson football is defenseless. The Observer
was referring to the team; however, I am referring to the entire program.)

I spent a recent afternoon with two Bob’s and a Steve, finding out how defenseless the program is: Robert A.
Currie, College treasurer and business manager, and Robert W. Davidson, comptroller, gave me money information.

First, the trustees’ limiting of football scholarships does not go into effect until next year. This year the usual fifty-two
scholarships were given; that’s 52 x $2,920.00 or $151,840.00. Even when the new plan goes into effect providing 52 times
the average non-athletic grant from the general funds for football scholarships, players will receive a proportionate amount of college funds.
The rationale of the college funding football scholarships according to the 52 times the average non-athletic grant was that financial
need would qualify many of the players for aid under the regular program. But the equation is deceptive because the
new plan will offer about twice as much in college funds for the 52 football grants.You see, less than half
the student body receives financial aid and it is from this half that the base figure (to be multiplied by
52) is derived for figuring football funds. To put the football scholarships on an equal basis would have required using
the average non-athletic grant including non-athletes who received no financial assistance from the college. In short, the new program football
twice the, e, the more than $150; this year and the more than $40,000 the College gives for football scholarships
is divided up as the athletic department sees fit, not necessarily on merit or need.

Secondly, my buddies in the southwest end of Chambers told me that the College will continue financing the non-scholarship parts
of the football program including everything from coaches' salaries to the training table, to game traveling expenses and so on;
to the tune of more than $100,000.00. (Although no exact figures on this year were available since it’s all figured
together as an athletic budget, the commission study released last year put this figure at $117,000. That's a pretty penny
to pay, even for a winning season.)

Thirdly, the Bobs don't know how important football is to alumni support. They don’t even have figures on how important
alumni support is to the College's financial status since some of these funds are from trust funds set up years
ago and since some gifts from non-alumni are due to alumni influence with their friends and various foundations.

While I was in the southwest corner of Chambers, I asked about a few projects supposedly turned down because of
a lack of funds: such as a gift of an electron microscope the College did not accept supposedly because we
could not afford a technician to run it or the $180,000 research grant the College would not match with the
required $30,000. "Times are tight," Currie explained, "the college has to make choices."

Unenlightened as to the raison d’etre of the football program (when times are tight), I went to talk to the
Wildcat Club's football fundraiser, Steve Heckard, who said he is more than $100,000 away from the $150,000 goal he hopes
to meet by December 31. Heckard’s argument for football was tripartite: (1) the need for a well-rounded student body; (2)
support for the entire athletic program (especially basketball); (3) sense of community. The first point was mainly a matter of
"we need more than just eggheads." The second was that "jocks like to be with jocks" and that basketball recruiting
would be hurt by a smaller jock community. The sense of community point was lost on me, but it had
to do with school spirit engendered by the gridiron battles and all that.

Heckard asked me to be fair in my criticism of the program so I'll try. After all, some of my
best friends play football. But some of my best friends’ scholarships were shafted. And some of my best friends' research
opportunities were junked. And social involvement and coeducation are termed "too expensive."

The other athletic programs don’t cost as much and therefore aren’t as subject to criticism on these grounds. In fact,
according to Comptroller Davidson, basketball has cleared from $40,000 to $90,000 in recent years. But Davidson football remains not only
defenseless but very expensive and grossly offensive.

A Russian Crime

"Do I have the power?" Raskolnikov said to the old woman in Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment. "Am I just a
louse, or do I have the power?" In a sense, the persecuted Soviet author Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn is the spiritual successor
to Dostoyevsky's hero. When Solzhenitsyn commits the crime of writing novels and stories critical of the Soviet state, what he
is doing is attempting to establish his power, or his right (in Russian the words coincide in this sense), to
express the truth. That activity is a crime in the Soviet Union, whether it takes the form of bureaucratic corruption,
of actual counter-revolution, or of anti-Soviet writing.

The name Raskolnikov means "breaker" or "schismatic." It is linked with the refusal of certain Russian Orthodox believers who refused
to accept a change in Orthodox belief and became heretics in the 19th century, known as the "Old Believers," "raskolniki."
Solzhenitsyn (and the others: Yuri Daniel, Andrei Sinyavsky, etc.) are a recurrence of the raskolniki in modern Russia. They have
refused the change in literary belief implicit in the doctrine of "socialist realism," which made Russian literature a servant of
the party rather than the servant of the truth which it had always been, even under Tsarist censorship.

Kuznetsov, the writer who defected last year to England, is not one of these. Kuznetsov gives as his reason for
defecting the fact that the KGB forced him to spy on his fellow writers. Unlike Kuznetsov, Solzhenitsyn does not even
want to leave. There have been various efforts by the Soviets to persuade him to accept exile in, for instance,
Finland, but he refuses to depart, to give up his faith in Russia.

It is perhaps strange to compare a murderer to a great author, for Raskolnikov’s crime is not to be thought
of in the same terms as Solzhenitsyn’s creativity. But Dostoyevsky’s point was man’s assertion of his power to decide his
destiny despite fate. Solzhenitsyn writes to prove he has this same power of decision despite the Marxist’s historical inevitability.
