Page Four. December 18, 1970

SGA Investigates Governance
By JEFF ALLENDER
Copy Editor

With the intent of pursuing answers to the problems of Davidson's “hierarchy” form of campus government, the Governance Committee of
the Student Government Association (SGA), under junior Danny Clodfelter, is working on suggestions for improved joint faculty-student government.

During the last summer, SGA President Ran Coble studied various forms of campus governance systems. “It is my firm conviction
that the campus can be governed better than it is with the hierarchy system,” said Coble.

He cited one of the problems currently causing confusion as “when finalized proposals go to the trustees, half the time
is spent telling them what is going on in the college, rather than working on finding the merits of the
proposals.” At the other end of the scale from the trustees, according to Coble, is the student level of the
hierarchy: “Right now we're at the lowest end of the scale.”

Another problem inherent in the current defined levels of governance, he added, is that the faculty is “spending so much
time on committee work — there are 37 faculty committees — that they don’t have time for their real job.”

“For these factors, a college council is the best form of government for this institution,” concluded Coble. A college council
gives governmental authority to a council composed of students, faculty, administrators, and other involved persons.

Coble gave Clodfelter and the rest of the Governance Committee the task of examining the governance procedures of the campus,
and hopefully coming up with a governance proposal, or at least a way to improve the current system. He gave
them information from four schools with a college council form of governance system, and an article against such a system,
setting a target date of the third week in January for submitting this proposal.

Clodfelter said that the college has made a move in this direction already, citing student membership on committees, especially the
Committee of 18, “which has students, faculty, administration, freshmen, fraternity men, and most groups involved represented. We have to decide
on which decisions should be made by joint action, which decisions are solely in the province of the faculty, and
which are...

AED Hosts Duke
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Staff Writer

About 90 Davidson students attended a recent meeting for those who felt they might be getting a “raw deal” from
the medical school application process. The meeting, sponsored by Alpha Epsilon Delta, featured Dr. Suydam Osterhout, Director of Admissions to
the Duke University Medical School.

Dr. Osterhout said that the selection process used by most medical schools is very similar. Most schools are trying to
find out who will be a good doctor and who can survive through four years of medical school. Duke’s Admissions
Committee consists of 17 members, including two students. Initial decisions are made on a troika basis — by three members
of the committee, one from the basic science section, one from the clinical division, and the admissions director. Final decisions
are by the committee.

New Deferment Policy

According to new regulations issued by Selective Service Director Curtis W. Tarr, a young man with a student deferment who
has a draft number higher than 195 can drop his student deferment by December 31 and sink to a lower
priority draft group on January 1, 1971.

According to previous draft rules, an application for reclassification had to be in the hands of local draft board personnel
before a December draft board meeting or it could not be considered. Now, however, an application for reclassification need only
be postmarked no later than December 31, 1970.

Tarr, noting that various draft boards around the country were scheduling their last meetings at various times during the year,
said that the revision was necessary to give all registrants an equal amount of time to take advantage of reclassification.

High school and college deferments, occupational deferments, agricultural deferments, paternity deferments, and hardship deferments may all be dropped under the
new policy. The 1-Y classification, unacceptable for military service except during national emergency, is not affected.

Tarr added that all deferments are issued for limited periods, usually one year, and automatically lapse if not renewed, in
which case the registrant immediately becomes 1-A. A deferred student who has a number higher than 195, the maximum number
any draft board may reach, is unlikely to be drafted if he gives up his student deferment during this year.
If he does not give up his deferment, then his name will go into the list of 19-year-olds when his
student deferment finally expires. It is therefore to the advantage of such a person to voluntarily give up his deferment
for a 1-A.solely in the province of the students.” According to Clodfelter, the faculty Governance Committee is exploring along the
same lines, and “if they come close to the joint governance idea, there may be a strong case for agreement
and cooperation in causing a needed change.”

Mrs. Spencer Describes European Study Tour
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

While college President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has been wrapping up his European trip, his wife has been home in
Davidson preparing for Christmas.

112 Pledge
(Continued from Page 1)

Ralston noted that there were a lot of things working against the freshmen accepting bids. “First of all, the freshmen
were unsure of how the new system would work,” he said. “Secondly, with the college paying the social fees, this
was an incentive not to pledge. And thirdly, many came to this college with the idea that they were not
going to pledge a fraternity. Despite these disadvantages, 40 percent of the class pledged fraternities,” he said.

“I have hopes that the trustees can be persuaded that an eight to four ratio of eating clubs to fraternities
would be a healthier situation than the present one. It would supply a greater choice for the students at Davidson,”
he said. “I believe that most freshmen would agree to this combination.”

Ralston said that he did not feel that fraternities emphasize exclusion. “The college has portrayed fraternity members as enjoying the
act of excluding someone,” he said. “I don’t think this is the case, especially at this school. I am afraid
that people will be hurt under the new system. The proposal of the Committee of Eighteen did not turn out
as well as I'd hoped it would,” he said.

Recent figures show that Kappa Alpha received 22 pledges; Phi Delta Theta, 30; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 21; and Sigma Phi
Epsilon, 39.

Mrs. Spencer returned about two weeks ago, and she is expecting her husband to arrive late this evening after eight
weeks abroad observing foreign study programs. Mrs. Spencer said that the president completed his last week of interviews at Heidelberg,
Freiburg, and Constance University. “All of the trip was in Germany except for two short visits to England.”

When asked for her favorite impression while in Europe, she at first found it difficult to select any particular site.
“I think probably the visit to Berlin was the real highlight of the trip just because of the situation of
the divided city to begin with. The free university at West Berlin is as dramatic and controversial as any place
in Germany.”

Mrs. Spencer explained that the purpose of the trip was to give a perspective for evaluating Davidson's foreign study program.
“One part of this visit was to gather information about American programs at foreign universities, and President Spencer met a
lot of professors in these.”

The Spencers had an opportunity to observe local politics in two German states. Mrs. Spencer said, “It was very interesting
to view elections in Hessen and Bavaria because school reform was involved in party alignment. The DAAD (German Academic Exchange
Service) had suggested to President Spencer that he might be interested in the way school reform influenced the elections.”

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 A.M. to 10:30
Phone 892-2111
Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
