Page Six . October 30, 1970

AMIDST MIDEAST STRIFE Polley Makes Archeological Find

By RICHARD WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Professor of Bible and Religion Max E. Polley groped through dirt and pottery chips in an archeological dig last summer
to discover a bronze nail dating approximately 3,500 B.C. Sponsored by the Hebrew Union College of Cincinnati, this program concentrated
on the excavation of the ancient Canaanite town of Gezer, located midway between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem in Israel.

"It was very meticulous work and beastly hot with temperatures reaching 120 degrees,” he said. “They wouldn't let us measure
the temperature until the last day for fear we would be discouraged.”

The site was laid out in a grid fashion forming several areas approximately fifty feet square, explained Polley. “Seven laborers
were assigned to each of these areas where we chose our own corner to begin digging,” he said. “We were
also given tools consisting of a pick, hoe, hand pick called a ‘petiche,’ trowel, brushes, dustpans, and a sledgehammer for
large rocks. Because so much damage can be done by digging with a shovel, we were not allowed to use
one.”

Polley explained that very few pieces of pottery were found unbroken. “Produced for domestic use, this sort of pottery was
very crude. Whenever it was broken, the Canaanite women just threw it out the window. Eventually it would become part
of the dirt road,” he said. “Most of the whole pieces of pottery which are found usually come from burial
caves,” he said. “The rest just gets crushed.”

This archeological program was set up to aid students studying in this general field of knowledge. American students have to
pay for their transportation to Israel which amounts to approximately $535 round trip, but after they arrive, they receive their
food and lodging free. Polley indicated that he hoped some Davidson students could participate in the program for academic credit
next summer, since the dig will continue for only one more season.

Despite the heat and the seemingly monotonous task of separating dirt from pottery fragments, Polley said he never lost interest.
“We would get up at 4 a.m. and work in the field area until 12:30 p.m. After lunch we would
work inside scrubbing and marking pottery. Our evenings were occupied by lectures on such topics as stratigraphy and pottery chronology,”
he said.

Polley noted that he had very little conflict with respect to the Mid-East war. “We had to cancel only one
trip because the ceasefire had just been declared, and there was increased Arab guerrilla activity.

“In the archeology camp I heard both sides of the Middle East conflict. These debates took place constantly while I
was there. I more fully realized that there is a lot of agony on both sides,” he said.

Polley commented that the military presence in the Golan Heights area was striking. “Old Russian tanks and fixed gun emplacements
are still left there probably for propaganda reasons. In fact, they are painted periodically with antirust paint, so that they
won't disintegrate. They function as very effective reminders,” he said.

In addition to visiting Israel, Polley sojourned to Lebanon, Syria, and Egypt. After seeing so many Palestinian refugees in Lebanon,
Polley said one could not help but have human sympathy. “I hope for the day when the problem can be
solved,” he said.

“In Egypt the people were very friendly. They would come up to you on the street and ask whether you
were an American. In most cases, this was because they wanted to trade American money on the black market,” he
said.

Polley remarked that the most interesting person he met last summer was Emil Aghaby, a manager of two hotels in
Beirut. “Emil was an Episcopalian Arab who left Jerusalem in 1948 as a refugee. He went to Beirut where he
became a manager of his hotels and formed an Anglican Church called St. George’s congregation. He was as close to
being a minister as anyone. He was a veryintelligent &. Many would— (Staff Photo by Doty) POLLEY Polley exhibits vase
(700 B.C.) and female deity. man speaking French, German, English. Yet there was no bitterness in him for everything that
happened. An injustice was done, yet life went on. He helped realize that things like this can happen, but it's
your attitude which makes the difference,” he said.

Players Present Jonson’s ‘Alchemist’
By DOUG BROWN, Staff Writer

The Drama Department will present Ben Jonson's comic classic “The Alchemist” as its first play for this academic year. Written
in 1610, “The Alchemist” is one of the most enduring comedies in English. It is notable for its witticisms, multiple
plots, disguises, and topical allusions. The audience will undoubtedly appreciate its brisk pace and originality. However, “The Alchemist’s” seven plots
make it extremely complex.

The principal characters in this play are Subtle, Face, and Dol Common, who are three ingenious, petty criminals. Their income
is derived from fraudulent schemes perpetrated against several of their more gullible brethren. The staging is modern because there are
on the one hand hippies and mods and on the other conservatives and hard hats. The language, however, is still
that of Ben Jonson.

Rupert T. Barber Jr., assistant professor of speech and drama and director of “The Alchemist,” said, “The cast has been
able to handle the language and complexities of the play very well.” Today's audience would not appreciate the many topical
references. Consequently, the script has been edited by Anthony A. Abbott, associate professor of English, and V. Cullum Rogers, a
senior English major. Another result of this editing is that the pace of the play has been quickened.

“I'm afraid some people won't come because they have read ‘The Alchemist’ and found it the most boring play they
have ever read,” said Rogers. “It is not an enjoyable play to read because it is primarily intended to be
acted out. It is a very physical play, and very much an audience reaction play.”

About the play’s relevance to today, Barber said, “It is just as timely today as it was in 1610. Many
people are trying to get rich quick, and money is very important to them. They are willing to do anything
to get wealthy as quickly as they can. Consequently, they are willing to let themselves be tricked by such people
as con artists.”

“The Alchemist” gives a better picture of Elizabethan drama,” commented Rogers. “Most people read mainly Shakespeare, and although he is
far superior to the other playwrights of the time, he gives a false picture. Ben Jonson's language is simple, although
his plots are complicated. The language doesn’t sound like poetry, and Jonson demonstrates how much Elizabethan drama can be understood.”

Rogers, winner of the Best Actor Award last year for his performance in “Don't Drink The Water,” will portray Subtle.
Peter Lutkin, master of ceremonies in “Oh What A Lovely War,” will play Face. The third major role, that of
Dol Common, belongs to Madlin Marinaro, a junior exchange student from Randolph-Macon College. In supporting roles will be George Draughon,
Ed Dobbs, Al McGraw, Robert Robinson, Robert Bolick, Bill Miller, Lee Fowlkes, Allen Lundy, Mary Einhaus, John Porter, Tad Porter,
Bob Wright, and Tim Timmons.

The sets were built and designed under the direction of Peter Lutken. Bill White is in charge of lights, and
Skip Smoak will direct the sound.

“We will have the student performance on a trial basis,” said Barber. “I have been encouraged in the past with
the increasing number attending performances, but I want to make the play available to more students.” Other performances will be
from Thursday, November 5, through Saturday, November 7, at 8:15. These performances will cost $1.00 for students and $1.50 for
the general public. Tickets may be purchased at the Union desk, and all performances will be in Hodson Hall.
