Scott, Committee Pick For NCAA

By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

The first rounds of the NCAA tournament begin tomorrow, and just a quick glance at the line-up shows that once again it is “The Tournament.” Most of the top teams in the nation will be competing in the playoffs for the coveted number one crown. The committee in charge of aligning the teams in the tournament is the NCAA University Division Basketball Tournament Committee, headed by Davidson athletic director Dr. Tom Scott.

Many of the teams are given automatic bids by virtue of winning their crown, while ten more spots are given to the ten best independent teams in the country. The method by which these independents are given bids is a result of season-long study and careful analysis of each team.

“At the beginning of each season,” explained Scott, “the head of each of the four regional committees picks several coaches from his region to watch the colleges in his area throughout their schedules. At the end of the year, the coaches and the regional committees rank the top teams in their area.

“The four regions are the East, the Mid-East, the Mid-West, and the Far West. The objective of the committee is to pick the top ten independents to fill the ten spaces in the regionals.

“For example, this year the committee from the East ranked St. Bonaventure, Villanova, and Niagara as the top three teams from their area. All were extended and accepted bids, since there are vacancies for three independents in the Eastern Region.

“There are only two openings in the Mid-East, and the top two teams were Jacksonville and Notre Dame, both of which accepted bids. However, there are three vacancies in the Mid-West, and it was the opinion of the committee there that only two independents merited bids, Houston and New Mexico State. Therefore, the third best team in the Mid-East, Marquette, was offered that spot. They turned down the bid since they would not be playing in the Mid-East, though Dayton then accepted the bid.

“In the West, Utah and Long Beach State accepted bids.”

BULLETIN
Davidson's Mike Maloy was named to the AP’s third team All-American squad Wednesday. Maloy finished thirteenth in the balloting which was dominated by Pete Maravich and Maloy’s opponent for tomorrow night’s game, Bob Lanier. Joining Maravich and Lanier on the first team were Dan Issel of Kentucky, Rick Mount of Purdue, and Calvin Murphy of Niagara.

Two players who faced Davidson placed on the second team, Michigan’s Rudy Tomjanovich and John Roche of the South Carolina Gamecocks. Other Davidson foes who received honorable mention were Bob Lienhard and Geoff Petrie of Princeton.

Lanier Led Bonnies Face Wildcats In NCAA Opener

By ERNIE SHIPE
Asst. Sports Editor

The parents of Bob Lanier have already made reservations for the NCAA tournament at Columbia and College Park. However, Davidson assistant Bo Brickels says emphatically that the Wildcats will win over the Bonnies.

It won't be an easy task for the Wildcats as they will have to stop a 6-11, 275-pound giant, Bob Lanier. Lanier is everyone's All-American and could easily be the first player selected in the NBA draft. He has led St. Bonaventure to a 20-1 mark and a ranking of fourth in the AP and UPI polls. The contest is set for 7:35 at St. John's University in Jamaica, New York.

Lanier’s credentials are even more astounding than...

Davidson Clinches Title, Richmond Finals Victim

By DON PARMAN
Sports Editor

In nothing at all of a surprise, the Davidson Wildcats rolled to an easy title in the Southern Conference basketball tournament last week. Most of the excitement of the event was furnished by the University of Richmond as the Spiders notched two upset wins before running into the Wildcats in the finals, and falling 81-61.

The Spiders came into the tournament seeded seventh with a 7-17 record but for the first time all year put their talent together to partially redeem their disappointing season. Led by Picot Frazier and Phil Bushkar, Richmond upset second-seeded East Carolina 75-73 in the opening round and then dumped George Washington 77-69.

Meanwhile, all was well with the ‘Cats as they trampled VMI 72-46 and William and Mary, a team which had given Davidson trouble earlier in Johnston Gym, 78-54.

In the finals, Bryan Adrian’s accurate outside shooting quickly brought the Spiders out of their zone defense and Mike Maloy and Doug Cook took over from there. Jerry Kroll showed his deft shooting touch with six of six in the semifinals and seven of nine in the second half against Richmond.

The ‘Cats dominated the all-tournament team as Maloy, Cook, and Kroll were all named to the first team. Adrian was named to the second squad despite sitting out the first game with tendonitis in his foot. Maloy was a near-unanimous choice as most valuable player. Also named to the first team were Furman's Joe Brunson, who scored 29 in the Paladin’s opening loss, and Frazier.

The very small crowds at the tournament games were a cause for disappointment for conference officials. Only for the finals, and the final Charlotte appearance of Davidson's trio of Maloy, Kroll, and Cook, were there more than 2,500 people. The opening session drew only 2,564. As of yet, Southern Conference officials have not received any formal bids for next year’s tournament although several cities have expressed interest. Informal bids have been received from Hampton and Roanoke, Va., neither of which is viewed by conference officials as a financial bonanza.

It has been rumored that Charlotte does not want to continue to host the Southern Conference tournament because of the poor attendances and the poor national image of the conference.

In light of the high mortality rate of regular season champions in the past in the Southern Conference tournament, the question of whether or not to continue the tournament at all has frequently been raised. At present, only the ACC and the Southern Conference determine their NCAA representative by tournament. Holland supported the idea of a conference tournament system on the grounds that it sends the best possible representative of the conference to the NCAA playoffs. “For example,” Holland theorized, “if the top players of a team were injured until Christmas, but after the break were able to play, they might be the best team at the end of the season but not get the NCAA bid because of the early losses. Then the conference would not send their top team to the playoffs.”

Holland did, however, suggest what he believes would be a better tournament system. “The single elimination does not take into account that the best team might have an off night. Perhaps a double elimination tourney would be better.

“Three years ago, the...

New Handball Club Emphasizes Improvement Of Campus Play

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

Behind the leadership of William Brown, Charlie Brown, and Sterling Martin, a handball and squash club has been organized among Davidson students, coaches, and faculty members. The club has been operating for over a month, and according to the organizers, has been progressing very well.

The club, a fairly novel creation, was organized with several aims in mind. Most important among these was to increase the overall quality of play in the community, and particularly to speed the development of beginning players. It offers a person the chance to compete with players of about his own caliber. This type of competition also generates a great deal of fellowship among the participants, and provides a means through which close faculty-student association can be developed.

Looking forward to the future, the leaders of the club hope to continue improving the organization, to become a more official arm of the intramural athletic association, and to bring in top players from outside the community. Ultimately, an intercollegiate team may be formed in these sports.

The club is divided into handball and squash categories, with ten players each in handball and two divisions in squash. The ranked players challenge those ranked higher, and unranked players (those not in the “top ten”) can challenge players ranked seventh through tenth. By defeating...A higher-ranked opponent a player moves up one rank, while the loser falls to the lower-ranked player's slot. Approximately seventy players signed up initially, and more have joined, bringing the total above eighty. Very few freshmen are participating, but about a dozen players are coming from the faculty and coaching staffs. The club is open to all who would like to participate, and beginners are especially encouraged to sign up. The club plans tentatively to operate for about three or four weeks into the spring term, and then pick up next fall in full swing. About twenty matches are played each week, involving about half of the members. Rankings change much more rapidly in the lower divisions than in the top division. The players who are making the most challenges are, quite naturally, making the most rapid advances. Among those who have made significant progress are Terry Holland, who has moved from division B to division A in handball; Tate Holbrook, who moved from sixth to third; Gordon Slade, from ninth to sixth; and Charlie Summers, unranked to seventh, all in division B handball. Bernard Scoggins has jumped to first from fourth in division C of handball, while Geof Planer, Lynn Wagner, and Teddy Ravenel have all made great advances in this division. In squash, Randy Jones retired undefeated as the top-ranked player in division A, to devote full time to the tennis team. Edmunds White has vaulted from fifth to the top spot in this division. Jack Steele has leaped to sixth in division B from an unranked position.

ACC almost changed to a system where the regular season champion would have a playoff with the tournament winner if they were different teams. They backed out of the change though. His size 22 Converse sneakers. He ranks fifth nationally in scoring with a 30.4 average. What's more surprising is that he has shot 57% from the floor. His 15.8 rebounding average surely can't be ignored either. Brickels doesn't anticipate any basic changes in the Wildcats' game plan. "We'll have to go after them much in the same way as we did South Carolina," said Brickels. This will probably mean starting the same five, Bryan Adrian, Doug Cook, Steve Kirley, Jerry Kroll, and Mike Maloy. The Bonnies are a fast-breaking team with most of their offense centering around Bill Lanier. "We'll have to respect their fast break, which is a good portion of their game," said Kalbaugh. "We expect to keep up with them and do a good job running."

St. Bonaventure primarily operates from a double low post offense with Lanier and Matt Gantt manning the two posts. Billy Kalbaugh runs the team at point while Greg Gary and Paul Hoffman play the wings. According to Brickels, they play a great zone defense, switching from a 1-2-2 to a 2-1-2. When the Bonnies go into the 2-1-2, Kalbaugh moves into the middle, which is quite surprising as this position is normally manned by the center. "The offense is very basic," said Brickels. "Most of the time they are simply going to Lanier. What surprised me was that he shoots so well from 15-18 feet. We'd still rather have him shoot from there instead of getting the ball inside the key."

Lanier's three years at St. Bonaventure have been amazing. This Catholic school, 70 miles southeast of Buffalo, has been brought into the national spotlight. Two years ago, the Bonnies were 22-0 in regular season play, and last year went 17-7 while on probation by the NCAA. The only loss St. Bonaventure has suffered this season came from Villanova, 64-62. As a sophomore, Lanier averaged 26.2 points per game. He raised it to 27.2 last year. Both seasons his shooting percentage was right at 58%. Frank Layden of Niagara has said Lanier is simply the greatest big man ever in college basketball, "and that includes Lew Alcindor." The highlight of Bob's career probably came in the New York Holiday Festival at Madison Square Garden. The Bonnies took the title by defeating NYU, St. Joe's, and Purdue. In the finals against Purdue, Lanier tied a tournament record held by Oscar Robertson as he scored 50 points. In the semi-finals, the Bonnies crushed St. Joseph 96-61, who defeated Davidson later in the season. Weise blocked a half dozen shots early in the game, and then intimidated the opposing shooters because of his defensive range. "That's where he's improved the most this season, on defense," said his coach Larry.

Lanier is not the entire St. Bonaventure offense. Although not a prolific scorer, Kalbaugh is an excellent floor leader with his great ballhandling. According to Brickels, the other guard, Paul Hoffman, is the most underrated player on the squad. The 6-1 sophomore has averaged 11.7 points per game and possesses a good outside touch. Coach Brickels sees sophomore forward Matt Gantt as an All-American before he graduates. He's 6-5 and jumps like he is 6-8. The quick, strong, Washington native shoots well from 10-15 feet and is averaging 14.6 points per contest. The other forward is Greg Gary. Gary is only 6-3 but a good rebounder and shooter, averaging 10.6 points. On the bench, the Bonnies can rely on Mike Kull, Tom Baldwin, and Vic Thomas. Davidson will be the highest-ranked team the Bonnies have met all year, although Purdue had been ranked in the top ten before several early season losses dropped their national stature before the tournament. Of Davidson's opponents, only the South Carolina Gamecocks enjoyed a higher spot in the polls than St. Bonaventure. Another mark going for the Bonnies is the St. Bonaventure career scoring record, now held by Tom Stith.

Kelly Inks Bengal Contract, Sees Prospects As Good
By RICK BUSH
Sports Writer

After a week of negotiations, senior end Mike Kelly came to terms and signed a contract with the Cincinnati Bengals. Kelly was elated to get his chance in the professional ranks and feels that his chances of making the squad are very good and that a starting spot is a possibility. "The Bengals are a young team, not looking for old players," Kelly said. "They're taking some chances on young players." Kelly added that since the Bengals are such a young club, they would be more likely to have patience with a young player, giving him time to adjust to the higher quality of competition.

Kelly concluded a glittering college career last fall on Davidson's first conference championship team. A two-year All-Southern Conference selection, and an honorable mention All-American his junior year, Kelly is the top receiver in the school’s history. He led the Southern Conference in receptions each of the last two years and teamed with Gordon Slade to give the Wildcats one of the most effective passing combinations in the country.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-1496

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

OPEN 9-8
The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY

With his record, Kelly anticipated going high in the pro draft and it came as a disappointment when his name was passed over. "A lot of people who are supposed to know about these things had told me I was a sure choice, I just couldn't understand the abrupt about-face." However, the Oakland Raiders contacted him the night the draft was completed. When Kelly could not come to terms with the Raiders, the Bengals jumped in with a four-figure bonus and a stronger chance to play. Oakland failed to come up with a better offer, so Kelly came to terms with Cincinnati about February 15.

The well-mannered world of Clubman - now at THE RED HANGER
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CLUBMAN ENCOMPASSES ALL THAT IS FITTING AND PROPER IN PREMIER COLOR, PATTERN AND FABRIC FOR THE DISCERNING GENTLEMAN. MEET AN EXCLUSIVE NEW DIMENSION IN TAILORING. FROM TASTEFULLY CONTOURED WAISTS AND SUBTLY MODIFIED LAPEL WIDTHS TO LENGTHENED BODIES AND DISTINCTIVE BUTTONING IDEAS. CLUBMAN, PERCEPTION WITHOUT EXTREMES. MAY WE SERVE YOU?