Page Four January 30, 1970 The Davidsonian

9 Professors Visit Mint Museum Amidst Strict Security Measures

Nine Davidson College professors strode briskly across the Fine Arts building parking lot toward a bus which was waiting to whisk them away for a day-long tour of the famous Mint Museum in Charlotte.

The Mint Museum tour is the second tour the group has taken together. On September 8 of this year, they journeyed to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, to review the military school system.

Those included in the tour are Col. Virgil P. Foster, Albert Wolf, William F. Frey, Jon G. Holland, Jon W. Fuller, William E. Jackson, Winfred P. Minter, Alan B. Brinkley, and Chalmers G. Davidson and Rupert T. Barber.

The purpose of going to the Mint Museum was, according to Col. Foster, to survey "first-hand a replica of an ancient institution, vital to our national economic structure—a nickels and dimes factory, as it were."

Although the group had no trouble with security forces on their tour of Fort Leavenworth, they did have a couple of minor brushes with the law at the Mint Museum. However, Jackson indicated that he was going to write his Congressman in protest over the exorbitant security equipment bought for the Museum security force.

No sooner had they gotten inside the door than one of their number, Dr. Frey, dropped through a trap door to the basement interrogation room below. It seems he had forgotten to register his Starmite camera at the front desk as required by security rules.

The main part of the tour proceeded without incident until the group was ready to board their buses and return to Davidson. But not to be fooled by even the most dignified visitors, the senior tour guide, Miss Nelly Beauchamp, caught Professor Brinkley with a flying tackle and wrestled him to the floor. Managing to pry a small briefcase from his grip, she then proceeded to empty its contents on her desk. She had probably been looking for newly minted dimes and nickels, but no incriminating evidence was turned up, so the group boarded their buses after profuse apologies were exchanged.

TRAVELERS BEFORE MINT TRIP
Pictured before their departure from Davidson are (l-r): John W. Fuller, Dr. William F. Frey, Dr. Winfred P. Minter, William E. Jackson, and Rupert T. Barber, front row, and back row: Major Harold E. Phillips, Alan B. Brinkley, Col. Virgil P. Foster Jr., Dr. Birrer, Dr. Albert A. Wolf, and Jon G. Holland.

Critic Criticizes Paper, Suggests Improvements

A REVIEW

It is, perhaps, inevitable that a peripatetic critic review his own publication, and this seems an appropriate time.

THE DRIBBLESONIAN has been distinguished during the past year by its accurate reporting. However, the leadership should pause and consider what direction the paper should take in the future. An improvement in the technical quality of the paper by the purchase of new equipment is suggested.

Additionally, a quotable quotes section, so that the entire college community can see what is being said, and an obituary column to report on the passing of Dribbleson landmarks, are recommended. In the past, Lingle Manor, Erwin Lodge, and Lingle Chapel have gone unmourned.

Critics are often accused of condemning without offering any positive advice. To refute this charge, may I make a few suggestions:

Hopefully, these new DRIBBLESONIAN features will lie in the future. An improvement in the technical quality of the paper by the purchase of new equipment is suggested.

And finally, a quotable quotes section, so that the entire college community can see what is being said.

Radio Station

(Continued From Page 1)

Our station will hook up with a regular station in New York. This station in New York will call up some controversial figures and any student will be able to talk to this guest if he wants to. Guests have included Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Trustees Select New Library Site

The Trustee Committee on the New Library Site has selected the location of the new library. The committee’s report describes the site as having "the advantage of major utilities." The report moves on to point out the nearby stream which provides drainage to the ground and says, "the site is in harmony with all other parts of the campus."

"I've seen their proposal," said sophomore David Grissett.“And I think it’s in directors for the station to find a new site as “by far the best creek adds to the homey atmosphere provided by the shade trees and presents no danger of undermining the foundations of the building.” Other people who are working on the project are freshman Scott Keeter and sophomore David Cook, publicity directors; freshman Terry Hirst and Phil Leon, business manager; and Earl Lawrimore and Grover Meetze, administrative advisors.

The report cited the plentiful shade trees and the fact that the new site will be in the general direction of campus expansion as the primary reason for the selection of the location. “This site,” said the report, “is close enough to major gas and water mains to obviate any major difficulties in securing the services. In addition, ample sidewalks can be provided at little cost to link the building to the dormitories, and not inconvenient to off-campus students who live in the area.”

“Deciding exactly where to put the new library building has been a puzzle to us for some time,” said Registrar Jay Ostwalt, “I’m glad to see the Trustees have finally come up with a suitable solution to the problem.”

The Trustees are optimistic that “sufficient parking space will be available at a suitable distance to the new library.” The report also claims that the facilities will be “in close proximity to the dormitories, and not inconvenient to off-campus students who live in the area.”

“I know there have been various and sundry proposals about where to put the new library,” said Dr. E. E. Brown, Professor of Biology. “We would’ve been in a very queer sort of mess if the Trustees hadn’t come through. I’m pleased.”

PRINCETON ALTERS GRADING SYSTEM

The faculty of Princeton University recently altered the school’s grading system, deciding to base evaluations on natural logarithms rather than numerical grades. This change marks the second alteration of the grading system in recent years. Just three years ago the school went to the A-F scale, changing from its unexplainable “mystical seven” system.

Under the new plan, first semester freshmen will receive a number-grade with the ordinate 1 and the abscissa from 1-10 with 7 decimals. Second term freshmen will receive an ordinate of 2, with an abscissa from 10-100 with 8 decimals. The infinite series continues up until the last term of the senior year, when the final grade will equal the cube root of the number of classes attended.

DAVIDSONIAN STAFF

Associate Editors:
ROBERT PYEATT
PAUL ROWLAND
DAVID SWEATT
TOM WHEATLEY

Assistant Sports Editors:
BILL BERRY
A. W. TURNER

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
JOHN MCLEAN
BILL LYLE

Photographers:
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS

Sports Editor:
DON PARMAN

Asst. Business Manager:
DON HOYT

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLE
STEVE CROSS

Assistant Copy Editor:
GREG SCOTT

News Editor:
JOHN FINE

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY

Assistant Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
CULLUM ROGERS

Contributors this week: Titus Andronicus, Peter S. Ney, William Styron, Bela Lugosi, Penelope Ashe, Ralph Quackenbush, Shrude M. F. Holdin, and Jerry Mathers as the Beaver.