INE

By A. W. TURNER JR.
Asst. Sports Editor

Call it charisma, call it luck—but everyone calls it winning. Maryland basketball coach Lefty Driesell, who carried Davidson to the
top of the Southern Conference in the late '60s, is now in his first year with the Terrapins. He suffered
through three straight losing seasons, with the worst one being last year when they went 8-18. But with Driesell at
the controls this year, Maryland boasts an 11-9 record and has given such teams as North Carolina and South Carolina
all they wanted.

The Terrapin team of this year is very much like the Davidson teams of past decades. “I haven’t changed my
basic philosophy on basketball,” said Driesell. “We run the same offense that we ran at Davidson. On defense, though, we
do play a little more zone than we did with the ‘Cats. So far, we haven't been pressing because we
don't have the personnel to press with.”

Two of the toughest losses for Maryland this year have been to North Carolina. The Tar Heels came from behind
to defeat the Terrapins in the Eastern Region, a tight contest behind Charlie Scott—a familiar Driesell nemesis. One player Driesell
is coaching is linked to his past coaching job. The leading scorer for Maryland this year is Will Hetzel, brother
of Davidson's first All-American, Fred Hetzel. Will has a chance to become the leading scorer in the school’s history if
he can get 128 more points before the season ends. He is hitting at a 16.5 ppg clip this year.

“Will and Fred can’t really be compared,” commented Driesell, “since Fred played at the post and Will is a wingman.
But Will is doing a tremendous job this year. He is greatly responsible for the success we have had this
year.”

Driesell spoke with reservations concerning this year’s recruiting. “We're right on there with a lot of good boys,” he said.
“But it’s too early to know how many of them we're going to get.” Freshman prospects for the Maryland squad
next season include Jim O’Brien, Howard White, and Darrell Brown.

T. J. Pecorak First "Cat Prospect Signed For '70

The Postma brothers will apparently be succeeded by the Pecorak brothers on the Davidson basketball scene as T. J. Pecorak
announced his intention to sign a grant-in-aid to Davidson at the Duke game Wednesday night. Pecorak will join his brother
John, who currently leads the freshman team in rebounding while averaging 17 points a game. T.J., a 6-6 forward, selected
Davidson after sorting through offers from over 100 schools, including several Southeastern and Atlantic Coast Conference teams. A three-year starter
at Fairfax, Va., at Woodson High, T.J. seems certain to become the first Cavalier player in history to score more
than 1000 career points. T.J. is hitting for 25 points a game and averaging 14 rebounds per outing.

From the field, he has connected on nearly 60 percent of his shots. He also passes out an average of
five assists. According to his coach, Red Jenkins, T.J. is the best all-around performer in the talent-rich D.C. area this
year, “certainly the most totally talented player in Woodson’s history.” Coach Morgan Wooten of nationally known Washington DeMatha Catholic called
Pecorak an “absolutely great player.” One national publication has referred to T.J. as the best basketball prospect in the Washington
area, long renowned for its high school competition. Davidson coach Terry Holland said, “We are very happy about this. He
actually hasn't signed yet, but he is announcing his plans to do so as soon as the rules permit.”

THE SMALL VICTORIES

The Davidsonian
February 20, 1970
Page Five

Dobbs, George Washington Look Strong

By DON PARMAN
Sports Editor

The Wildcats ended their winning season Tuesday with a nip-and-tuck victory over Appalachian State University, 53-51. The victory came behind
the freestyle relay team of Mac Davis, Hunter Brown, and Jim Newton, who won the race to give Davidson seven
points. Newton had a remarkable day, tying one school record and breaking another en route to victories in the 50
and 100-yard freestyle events.

Against the Cavaliers, Dobbs tried several innovations. For the first time all season, George Washington started both of their big
men, 6-10 John Conrad and 6-7 Bill Knorr. Davidson frequently used a two-guard offense. George Washington, although they use it
at times with both Conrad and Knorr in the lineup, primarily relies on Mike Tallent and the old standard.

Newton won the 50 with a 22.8 clocking and then shattered the 100-yard freestyle record with a 50.3 time. The
freestyle events proved to be little challenge for either team as the Appalachian winner in the 200 freestyle set a
new school record. Other individual winners for Davidson were Hunter Brown in the 1000-yard freestyle and Jim Brown in the
500-yard freestyle. Tom Stevens was relieved.

Pikas Finish Unbeaten, East IV Early Favorite

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

With only a few games remaining in intramural basketball, the Pikas have wrapped up the championship with a perfect 12-0
mark. A win over the Sigs last week assured them of a first-place finish and killed the second-place Machts’ chances.
Both teams were missing a key player.The number of unbeaten hopes for victory over the Sigs was paced by Mark
Pikas and Bob, as the quick, tough Sigs broke to a 6-0 lead. The Machis secured second place with a
9-1 record, nipping the Nus 74-68 in overtime and slipping past the upset-minded KA's 69-63. Mike Dickens upped his league-leading
average to 27.2 ppg with a 40-point barrage against the Nus and 25 more to pace the KA victory. Jim
Long weathered several rallies before a comfortable second half, tossing in 18 points to support him against the Nus, whose
ace Steve Hayes popped in 32. Hayes is right on Dickens' heels in the scoring parade, averaging 26.7 points per
game.

The Delts closed out their season at 10-2 by defeating the Gamms 57-53, as John McCammon tallied 18 points and
Gene Early and Garth Hampton chipped in 15 apiece. Charlie Parks had 23 to spark the losers, with Mike Mikolayunas
adding 15. The Sigs dropped into a fourth-place tie with the Betas, who were idle this week, after gaining a
forfeit over the Pi Kapps and the loss to the Kapps and Pikas. Both teams are 7-4. The Gamms' loss
to the Delts left them at 7-5 and in sixth place, only a half-game in front of the Indies, who
nipped the A's 50-49 and SPE's 59-55. Steve and Jim Maynor had 17 and 16 points, respectively, to lead the
KA's, who are now 2-9 after losses to the Machis and Indies.

The Indies, after a disappointing season, got 17 points from George Hannen and 16 more from Johnny Jewett to clip
the Sig Eps, who were paced by Dave Shepler and Kent Rhodes with 10 and 15 points, respectively. The Nus
lost twice, dropping a contest to the SAE's despite Hayes' 32 points, and narrowly to the Machis. Bob Meadows, Nick
Livengood, and Lynn Himes had 17, 15, and 14 points respectively for the SAE's, who improved their slate to 4-6
and took over ninth place. The SPE's nipped the ATO's in overtime to pull into a tie for 11th at
2-10, just behind the KA's. The winless Pi Kapps wrapped up undisputed possession of the cellar in typical fashion, forfeiting
to the Sigs.

The Machis play the Sigs and the Indies, and the SAE's meet the Betas and KA's in make-up games to
complete the schedule on February 19 and 20.

In freshman action, East IV took an early lead to establish itself as a favorite. They knocked off East I
74-62 as Scott Shipp and Mike Sikes fired in 26 and 14 points, respectively. East IV defeated East II 74-53
as Sikes tossed in 22 and Shipp added 19. Mitchell Johnson led all scorers with 27 points for the losers,
who led at halftime 36-27. Cannon I won twice, edging Cannon IV 61-58 as Dave Morrow flipped in 26 points.
Lynn Wagner had 23 for the losers. Cannon I knocked off Watts IV 66-57 as Morrow tallied 18 to lead
four teammates into double figures. Ed Seiber paced Watts IV with 25 points. Watts IV ripped Cannon II 82-43 as
Mike Tombari netted 22 points. Steve Suflas dropped in 18 for the losers and then came back with a 15-point
performance to pace Cannon II to a narrow 43-40 win. Dave Mehlen managed 12 for the losers. Suflas again paced
Cannon II with 15 points in a 63-44 loss to Cannon IV, which was led by Daryl Williams with 23
points.

Rounding out the starting team is 6-3 guard Ronnie Nunn. Leading the bench are forward Lenny Baltisky and guard Ralph
Barnett. Harold Rhyne, a starter last season, is expected to see a lot of action. When asked, he said, "I
wish I knew how. I've really been trying to develop my game. Right now, I do know by thrice."

The Wildcats toppled ASU in a close race, with Newton in the free and Davis in second place finishes in
several events.

Davidson built a point lead with 2:53 left in the game. The Davidson statement went awry, and a layup by
Brad Evans finally tied the game 63-63.

The youngest team in recent Davidson tennis history began spring practice to pull the Wildcats back above the .500 mark.
Head coach Harry Fogleman welcomed six freshmen back for spring practice on Monday to constitute what he terms "the youngest
team I've had in any place I've ever been." Four of the freshmen are tentatively listed as starting singles competitors
by Fogleman. Captain Randy Jones, the team’s only senior, is at first court, and junior Jim Cantrell is at fourth
court. John Koury is expected to open at second court with David Weaver, Jen Duman, and Harry Lankenau at third,
fifth, and sixth spots, respectively.

Attesting to the ability of the new freshmen, Jeff Chetwood and Frank Dana, both of whom played last year, are
not now slated for regular duty. Despite the youth of the team, Fogleman is very optimistic over the team’s chances.
"If they listen and do as I tell them, we will be near the top of the conference. The team
should be very strong," Fogleman said. The team aims to improve on last spring's record when the netters missed the
.500 level for the first time in Fogleman’s tenure as coach here. This year's schedule opens with the spring break
as the 'Cats face Cincinnati here on March 21. The team then travels to Florida for a five-match tour before
stopping to face The Citadel on the way back to classes. Included in the match schedule are several home matches.

Students! Faculty! Do Not Miss Our WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY SALE. Three Days, Feb. 19, 20, 21. Our Annual DOORBUSTER Event. Ridiculous
Prices On Men’s and Ladies’ Winter Wearables. John Mock & Son, Mooresville.
