Che Vol LX, No. Eight
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
November 6, 1970

TO RAISE FUNDS
Cornell Named Aide
By JIM HANNA
Staff Writer

C. David Cornell, with duties of “coordinating business and financial matters,” has been appointed to the new post of vice
president for finance and development at Davidson, announced President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Cornell will be “the chief officer in
a new structure for the non-academic side of our administration,” according to Spencer, and his duties will include “coordinating business
and financial matters, as well as fundraising, public relations, research, and planning.”

Cornell, who will begin his duties Jan. 1, is presently director of agency liaison at the University of Iowa, where
he is engaged in public relations work with government and national foundations. Cornell, 46, graduated from the University of Iowa
in 1947 with a BA in history, and stayed there two more years to earn his M.A. in the same
area. He also did work toward a Ph.D., and has had training in business administration at UCLA.

Cornell’s academic experience includes teaching experience at the Universities of Iowa and Idaho, California Institute of Technology, and a term
as director of speech at Pomona College in California from 1954-1956. From 1965-1969 he served as full-time director of development
for Scripps College in California. Cornell was also assistant to the president of General Dynamics’ California Division, where he handled
public relations and advertising.

FALL TERM EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
1970 - 1971

Monday
November 30
9 a.m. 3 o’clock Classes
2 p.m. 9 o’clock Classes

Tuesday
December 1
9 a.m. 4 o’clock Classes
2 p.m. 2 o’clock Classes

Wednesday
December 2
9 a.m. 1 o’clock Classes
2 p.m. 11 o’clock Classes

Thursday
December 3
9 a.m. 10 o’clock Classes
2 p.m. 12 o’clock Classes

Friday
December 4
9 a.m. 8 o’clock Classes

Self-scheduled examinations will not be in effect for this examination period.

Fraternities Plan Parties
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Final preparations for the open house this week on Patterson Court were made at a meeting of representatives from several
fraternities Monday morning.

Long Drop-Add Suggested

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan held a session of the faculty Tuesday to propose that the period
in which students be allowed to drop courses without penalty be extended from five days to five weeks. Bevan asked
the faculty to waive its requirement that information on proposals be circulated to the faculty five days before any action
could be taken by a meeting, but the faculty felt the matter was too important and docked the proposal until
a later meeting, according to Earl W. Lawrimore.

Robert J. Harris, professor of Government and History at the University of Virginia, will be lecturing Wednesday at 10 a.m.
and 2:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

The Leopards will bring a passing whiz of their own tomorrow when they meet the Wildcats, on page 6. Zack
Mobley returns with more ‘Paranoia’ on page 5.

Editorials 2
Paul Rowland 4
Joe Smith 4
Sports 6

EPC PROPOSAL

The Educational Policy Committee recommends that the Faculty modify the present regulation which states that a student may drop a
course through the end of the first academic week of each term to the following:

A student may...With the approval of the Registrar, DROP a course at any scheduled time prior to 5:00 p.m. of
the twenty-fifth scheduled class day of any term, i.e., through the end of the fifth week of any ten-week term,
regardless of the number of meeting days established by the professor. Harris will speak on the topic of "The Supreme
Court in a Turbulent World." He is regarded as an authority in the study of the American Constitution and the
judicial system. Among his books are "The Judicial Power of the United States" and "The Quest for Equality: The Constitution,
Congress, and the Supreme Court." Harris is a past president of the Southern Political Science Association and past vice-president of
the American Political Science Association. He is on the Board of Editors of Virginia Quarterly Review.

Bevan, director of the college news bureau, said the Educational Policy Committee, from which the proposal had come, felt that
it would place no hardship on the professor to allow a student to leave a course, since he would then
have only to teach one student fewer. However, a similar proposal to extend the "add" period for courses to the
same length was rejected by the EPC because a professor could not be expected to bring a student who had
missed five weeks of classes up to date, according to Bevan. The proposal was also expected to help students who
might want to change majors, since they would then be able to drop a course which they might be taking
for completion of a major they no longer wanted to pursue without penalty. The present penalty for dropping a course
after more than five days is a penalty grade of F.

Lawrimore also suggested that there was a possibility of extending the period for registration for the pass-fail option to five
weeks, but that this has not yet been fully considered by the EPC. Other happenings at the faculty meeting included
an appeal by senior Gene Early, chairman of the Honor Court, to have the members of the faculty clarify to
their classes precisely what they expected under the Honor Code from their students.

Seven of the twelve fraternities are involved in this first unofficial rush session, including Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Phi Epsilon,
Phi Delta Theta, Kappa Alpha, Sigma Nu, Kappa Sigma, and Alpha Tau Omega. The open house was scheduled for last
night from 9 until 11. Lyman Parrigin, who headed the meeting, discussed publicity for the program before the first party
to inform freshmen of the purpose of rush. Posters were to be placed in all freshmen halls advertising the party.
Parrigin said, "I think that there might be some reluctance among freshmen to come down, since it is not official."
He also mentioned the possibility of working with hall counselors in the future to explain the program to freshmen more
effectively rather than sending fraternity men into the dorms to encourage participation. "If you are a hall counselor you don't
want freshmen up until 3:00 in the morning just because IFC rules are suspended. We don’t want to use hall
counselors to legitimize this thing, but I think we have to go beyond mere advertising." Since the Interfraternity Council will
soon disband itself, Parrigin stated that any rules for the open house would be based on "good faith." The fraternities
involved will meet again Monday to evaluate the success of the rush program. Another similar open house will be held
on November 18, senior Jim Cantrell had previously announced. (Staff photo by Strand)

OUTLINING THE NEW RUSH
Lyman Parrigin explains SPE Plans.
