The Davidsonian
November 6, 1970
Page Five

Moderate Majority Must End Violence
Campus Unrest Disgusts

ED. NOTE: The following text was sent in the form of an open letter by U.S. Senator Charles H. Percy
to all college and university students, faculty, and administrators in Illinois. It was printed in the Congressional Record on September
14, 1970.

As a new academic year opens, I want to share with you some of my thoughts on why I believe
the next few months will be crucial ones in determining the future course of higher education in our country.

I do not have to tell you that many campuses are in ferment. That would belabor the obvious. Nor would
I presume to prescribe specific remedies for the situation on your own campus. I realize that different situations require different
responses, and despite my service on the Senate committee investigating campus disorders, I do not presume to be imbued with
any special insight that has eluded educational experts from New York to California.

Moreover, I am confident that the overwhelming majority of the approximately 80 college and university campuses in Illinois will adapt
themselves to a changing society within the flexible framework of the Constitution. Only a comparatively small number is likely to
attract the headlines through their excesses, but this potentially explosive minority has become a major source of concern throughout the
state and the nation.

As a United States Senator from your state, I believe I have a good grasp of the sentiment of the
public at large in Illinois and of the federal government toward campus unrest. Without debating the merits of the prevailing
attitudes, let me concisely and candidly summarize them. In my view, both the general public and public officials are, in
words I have heard a thousand times, “fed-up.” Their patience is exhausted. The majority wants order restored to our campuses,
by whatever means, and it is no longer interested in what it considers to be esoteric debates over “responsiveness,” “relevance,”
or “social consciousness.”

Perhaps you sensed this during the summer recess, and I may be telling you something you already know. I am
presenting the situation to you very bluntly, however, because, as I assess it, the non-violent elements on college and university
campuses have two choices open to them. They can permit relatively few radicals, bent on challenging the overall temper of
the country, to control their destinies. By their mute approval, they will in many instances be responsible for the transforming
of campuses into armed camps. Or, they can decide, as the largest component in the academic community, that their institutions
will remain open. They can choose to shape their own futures, rather than having them determined by external forces.

It is an indisputable fact that no free society can ever deploy sufficient numbers of policemen or guardsmen to put
down an irresponsible citizenry without resorting to repressive measures and sacrificing individual liberty and freedom. The majority of our citizens
must be committed to the preservation of order or there will be chaos. That is as true of the campus
society as it is of society at large.

Quite properly, I believe, institutions of higher learning resent outside involvement in their affairs. They believe that self-government can work
if allowed to flourish in an atmosphere of tolerance and reason. But on many campuses today, intolerance and irrationality have
grown to alarming proportions. Hisses and obscene chants bury the words of a speaker representing a different point of view.
Meaningless slogans camouflage an absence of independent thought. Non-negotiable demands destroy any effort at negotiation. Civility is a lost art.
Acts of terrorism—bombings, snipings, burnings—are regarded as acceptable expressions of free speech.

Perhaps most disillusioning of all, few voices within the academic population are raised in protest. Most of those who do
not condone such behavior—a majority, I would surmise albeit a shrinking one—acquiesce in it. Rarely does one hear a distinction
made between laudable ends and deplorable—or criminal—means.

Some moderates despairingly speak of their inability to influence the direction of American institutions, and especially government, by working “within
the system.” I take strong exception to this attitude. As evidence that such defeatism is unwarranted, I would point to
voter registration in the South, the impact of the McCarthy campaign in New Hampshire, the present policy of a steady
withdrawal of American troops from Southeast Asia, the new willingness in the Congress to thoroughly scrutinize military expenditures, and an
increasing national commitment to the preservation of our environment.

The academic community has played a major...Role in bringing about each of these historic developments, and similar examples could be
found. Yet, let me concede, for the sake of argument, that campus quickly and drastically alter the course of a
complex society consisting of more than 200 million people. The fact remains that the nonviolent elements can—and must—be instruments of
orderly, appropriate change in their campus societies. To argue that a numerical majority must sit idly by and watch its
institutions disappear in flames, clubs, and bullets, is wholly illogical. If radicals—on the left or the right, Weathermen or Minutemen—gain
control of life on a campus, responsibility for such a takeover is not theirs alone. It must be shared by
those members of the academic community who retreat in silence, and thereby give their tacit authorization to the most destructive
element in their society. Both the extreme left and right employ violence for a single purpose—to encourage repressive measures by
government. The radical right wants repression as an end in itself because of its distrust of the democratic process, civil
liberties, and free speech. The radical left wants repression as a means of encouraging a revolution of class warfare that
will destroy society as we know it. To stand up against those who would substitute force for reason on our
campuses will mean inconvenience and may require courage. But moderates must join together to stem the tide of campus violence
by firmly stating that they will not permit it. If they abdicate their responsibility, in all likelihood they will invite
swift and unwelcome intrusion into their affairs by the heavy hand of government. Make no mistake about it, given the
choice between anarchy and repression, government will always choose repression. And even a free people will support such measures, abhorrent
as they might be. My plea, then, is not for less involvement in matters of public policy. We in government
desperately need the contributions of young people and academicians. Nor do I urge anyone to refrain from expressing himself on
the obligations and the functioning of his public institution. College and universities are not exempt from the flaws that scar
the other segments of our society. But I am earnestly suggesting that all members of the academic community in Illinois
dedicate themselves to ensuring peace on their campuses in this academic year. With a strong commitment to non-violence, you can
rescue your institutions from an obstreperous minority who would sacrifice your right to teach and to learn to further their
own ultimate interests—interests that you do not share no matter how they are disguised. The future of this nation is
inextricably linked to the future of its colleges and universities. With the stakes so high, Americans will not and cannot
permit these institutions to cease their operations. The key question is whether the campuses will function as centers of free
inquiry, governed by the will of the majority, or as strongholds of anarchy, marked by riot and repression. In large
measure, the moderate majority holds the answer—and it must be decisive.

Up Pariscope

ED. NOTE: Emerson Bell toured France during his senior term last spring. Herein some of his impressions of Paris.

We live near the Eiffel Tower and every now and then, when I think this is all a dream, I
walk over to take a look. The Eiffel Tower is real—sometimes very ugly and sometimes very beautiful. It's an appropriate
symbol for Paris, the City of Light. At times, Paris is dirty and ugly—with people shoving in the subway, cars
bluffing one another for right-of-way. At times Paris is just a big city where no one has time to care
about anything but himself. But the coin has another side. My French landlady has ironed my shirts when I was
in a big hurry to catch a train. One Parisian family I met while hitchhiking invited me into their small
apartment for a drink. Another family has had me over for supper more than once. I could go on—these are
only a few of my memories of my French friends. An odd mixture of efficiency-inefficiency, aloofness, and warmth, these people
have made a deep impression on me. I shall be forever grateful to those at Davidson who encouraged and helped
me plan this quarter in Paris. My experiences here cannot be translated into quality points. Complemented by my Paris experiences,
my Davidson education has become a rounded unity. I can’t express it any better than that. I don't yet fully
understand all that I've learned—at Davidson or in Paris.

by ZACK MOBLEY

MATE I'D BETTER CALL SPENCER AND LET HIM KNOW WHO'S 2059!
