COBLE, BURNEY DESCRIBE PLANS
(Staff photos by Ramachandran)

KATHLEEN Tells of ‘dreamland utopia.’

Court Reverses Drug Conviction

In a dramatic and unprecedented move, the Davidson College Court of Appeals reversed itself this week and suspended the sentence
of a Davidson student who had been found guilty of selling hallucinatory drugs. The student had been found guilty of
the charge by the college Regulations Court during the fall term exam period.

His first appeal to the college Court of Appeals failed to overturn the conviction or the sentence of two years’
suspension from school. The defendant then pressed his appeal to the Davidson College Board of Trustees. The board did not
take up the appeal at its Feb. 3-4 meeting because of its heavy schedule, according to Dean of Students Richard
C. Burts Jr.

During the time that the appeal to the trustees was pending, the student withdrew his appeal. Instead, at the request
of the defendant, the College agreed to offer a retrial. The defendant asked that he not be retried by the
Regulations Court, since he felt he could not get a “fair trial” in that court. So the retrial was handled
by the Court of Appeals. The second Appeals Court verdict found the student guilty as charged, but it suspended his
sentence of two years’ suspension from school, said Burts.

The unprecedented request for a retrial was accepted because, according to Burts, the defendant had “changed his own outlook.” Burts
explained that the defendant had put up only a “passive” defense in the first trials, but then indicated a desire
to take an active part in his own defense.

The college Court of Appeals was somewhat ill at ease because one-year-old procedures had not been settled. According to Burts,
outside legal advice told the Appeals Court that it could act either as an appellate court, as it had before,
or retry the case.

In an interview this week, Burts spoke on some of the issues which have surrounded the current drugs case. He
stated that the College will “continue to enforce its own regulations” concerning the use of potentially harmful drugs. He said
that the question of whether to let the police force of the state of North Carolina have jurisdiction over instances
of alleged campus drug use was not at present under specific review by college officials. It is, however, a question
which is liable to “basic review” by the administration.

Burts was asked about an earlier report in THE DAVIDSONIAN to the effect that state officials had promised not to
investigate instances of drug use on campus. He said that the communication with the State Bureau of Investigation could not
be construed as a promise. However, he said he thought that SBI procedure in such matters was not to investigate
on campus unless requested to do so by college officials.

Burts specifically denied that Davidson College or its courts were making use of information on drug abuse gained from paid
or unpaid informers. He said that the College (See DRUGS, Page 6)

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036, FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1970

By NEIL COGHILL
News Editor

“From each according to his abilities; to each according to his needs,” was the way Kathleen described the commune at
Twin Oaks, Virginia. She briefly explained the operations of the settlement and answered questions Wednesday morning in the Morrison Room.
The colony is based on the book ‘Walden Two,’ by behavioral psychologist B. F. Skinner. The community of thirty-five lives
on a 125-acre farm; each member does a certain amount of work each day for which he or she earns
credits according to the “unpleasantness” of the job. The community shares all the products, and in turn supplies all the
needs of each member.

Kathleen explained that “the community is not self-sufficient in the best sense,” but is striving towards that goal. The main
industry is the manufacture and sale of rope hammocks. In addition, some members must periodically take jobs “on the outside”
to supplement the communal income. Kathleen said that, “Getting away from the outside job thing is our biggest hang-up.”

The commune is organized on a “manager system.” A board of three “planners” theoretically holds most of the authority. They
have the power to appoint “managers,” arbitrate disputes, and accept or reject new members. In practice, however, the “managers” run
the commune. Practically every person “manages” some aspect of the community life: gardens, cows, laundry, fences, and many more—and has
the responsibility to see that the job gets done. Each week, the managers decide how much labor they will need
in man-hours. Every member signs up for the job he wants. Originally, each hour is worth one credit, but if
the job is particularly unpleasant like mending fences in winter, the credit goes up. Thus the easiest jobs rate the
least credit.

The commune is held together by a few basic rules. The “anti-gossip rule,” or anti-put-down rule as she explained it,
forbids anybody to speak negatively of another. The “anti-bitch” rule guards against complaining. If you have a “bitch,” you put
it into the “bitch box.” The “Bitch Manager” is responsible for settling personal complaints among members of the commune. Drugs
are very strictly forbidden on the commune property. Kathleen described this as a preventive measure to prevent the commune from
being “busted.” She implied that there were neighbors who would relish the thought.

There is a “committed core” of six to eight permanent members. The rest is a continually changing population. For economic
reasons, Twin Oaks no longer has any children living there, and does not plan to admit any for the next
two years. The present members of the group are college age, and many are dropouts. Some are high school dropouts.
Kathleen said that they do not take people fourteen or fifteen years old without their parent’s permission, which is not
often given.

Kathleen emphasized that no one has any personal income at all—everything is shared. As a whole, the commune is financially
impoverished. It gets by with only the most essential needs and enjoys few material comforts. “However,” Kathleen added, “We love
what we don’t have. Our social life is what your dreams are made of. This world is a lousy place,”
she added. “The reasons are perfectly obvious. We can’t change it as a whole, but we can change it here.”

Senate Bill Advocates Responsibility Code Change

By SCOTT DAVIDSON
Staff Writer

Drugs, search warrants, and open dorms were all discussed in detail by the Regulations Court during the series of open
houses held this week. These periods were designed to familiarize students with the Code of Responsibility. The Code will be
brought up for review during the April meeting of the Board of Trustees.

Although legal authorities were consulted before the Code was submitted, many ambiguities exist as it now reads. Revisions of the
Code are

Burney Letter To Burts Hits Alleged Invasion Of Privacy

SGA Vice President Cecil Burney has released to the Residence Hall Council an open letter to Dean of Students Richard
C. Burts Jr. in which he calls for an end to alleged invasion of students’ privacy by college personnel.

The letter says, in part, that Burney has “become increasingly aware of student complaints about college personnel roaming through the
residence halls, opening locked doors of student rooms at various hours of the day and night.

“Many students suspect that someone in the college administration is conducting a search for violations of the open dorm regulations
and Code Responsibility violations. As President of the Residence Hall Association, I want to make it clear to you that
you and other college personnel are not welcome in the residence halls forPurposes of search without a written search warrant
in hand.” Burney was elected without opposition to the joint post of SGA vice president and RHC president last Jan.
20. In an interview, he explained that faculty and personnel are welcome in the dorms during periods of open house.
This is an “automatic invitation,” written into the RHC Manual of Order. Burney said that his letter was intended to
discourage college personnel from disturbing students’ privacy while they are entertaining guests.

In the RHC meeting Monday night, council members seemed to agree that some principle of privacy should be made explicit
to the administration. Several members felt that college personnel should be required to have written search warrants before opening any
student’s locked door. Janitors would not be expected to clean rooms whose doors were locked.

A distinct possibility in the immediate future. To amend it, acceptance by three diverse groups, the student body, the faculty,
and the trustees, must be achieved. The chief spokesman was Jerry A. Roberts, professor of associate mathematics and a faculty
member of the court. There were two points of view: a possible hard and fast set of rules enforcing moral
standards on everyone, or a “hands-off policy.” The latter would leave the college, with so much at stake, open to
criticism.

He stated that many rules today are unrealistic, particularly in light of the change in the moral climate. Part of
the problem lies in the fact that the student responsibility of self-policing is just not working. Violations concerning the misuse
of drugs or the open dorm privileges are not being reported. One of the chief areas of ambiguity is in
defining the position of the Code on the basis for issuance of search warrants. The Code does not specify the
limitation of such a warrant and members of the court, itself, are unclear on the subject. Also, the responsibilities of
maintenance officials who have access to all rooms are not clearly specified.

The legal responsibility of the court in drug abuse still seems to be an open issue. In the past, civil
authorities have generally maintained that colleges have the right to handle their problems in their own manner, provided that the
rules were clearly defined and that individuals were treated through a prescribed process. Recently, civil courts seem to have entered
a transition period in which the emphasis is being placed in the other direction. Roberts said that hopes of success
lie in the leveling of responsibility on the students, themselves. He stated, “You can't get anywhere trying to legislate morals.”

There is no definite stance on punishments prescribed by the court. According to the court members, every case is tried
on its own merits. First, a decision of guilty or not is made. Then the individual situation is analyzed to
reach a suitable solution. When the trustees meet in April, they may approve the Code on a permanent or tentative
basis. Roberts said that it was his hope to have it approved in principle, leaving the court free to iron
out the details of the individual problems as they crop up.

The meeting held in Belk dorm lobby this week was rather poorly attended. Only one student showed up to question
the court, and only two members of the court were there to defend it. The Regulations Court is composed of
twelve members—six students and six faculty. It has original jurisdiction in all cases where the Code of Responsibility has allegedly
been violated. Cases may also be referred to it from the Residence Hall House Committees, which have original jurisdiction over
petty property damage and infractions or violations of the RHC Manual of Order. The Regulations Court has been primarily involved
this year with charges of drug abuse under the Code. The court’s purpose in making its presentation in Belk dorm
was to explain its role under the Code and to explain its procedures to the student body at large.

24-Hour Open Dorms Measure Awaits SLC Approval
By JOHN FINE
Associate Editor

The SGA Senate and Residence Hall Council have passed a resolution which might prepare the way for 24-hour open dorms.
The RHC voted last week to amend the RHC Manual of Order to permit each house committee to set any
desired hours if approved by two-thirds of the residents of the dormitory. The revision was passed by the SGA senate
Tuesday night and will go into effect if it is passed by the Student Life Committee (SLC). It is scheduled
to be considered by the SLC at a meeting Feb. 18.

RHC President Cecil Burney said that he anticipates little difficulty in securing passage. “I think there is a moderately good
chance that the resolution will pass the SLC,” he said. Burney said that the resolution would strengthen the Code of
Responsibility by giving the RHC the responsibility of regulating dormitory life. “The RHC house committees cannot develop into a representative
government until they get the responsibility for government,” he said.

Former RHC President Tom Opie said that he anticipated some difficulty in getting this proposal passed in the SLC. He
said that he was expecting opposition from President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. According to Opie, Spencer opposes the request for
24-hour visiting in the lounges and fraternity houses. A proposal to effect this change encountered little opposition until it reached
his desk, but it appears to have been pigeonholed there, said Opie.

Most RHC members were unwilling to comment on the amendments, reflecting their decision to keep the issue as quiet as
possible until it was introduced to the SLC, thus preventing any opposition that might exist through organizing. Opie scrapped his
policy of secrecy at the RHC meeting Monday night. Burney said that he did not think that disclosure of the
action would in any way affect its chance of passage. The RHC also passed a provision which would permit dormitories
to be open from noon to midnight in the fall before house committees are elected.

Eu Hall To Host Seminar

The Eumenean Society will sponsor a symposium on “Science and the Humanities” featuring four Davidson College professors Feb. 16-17 in
the century-old literary hall on the second floor of the Eu Hall. Robert Manning, assistant professor of physics, will discuss
“The Politics of Particles: Totalitarianism and Time Travel,” at 8:30 p.m. A known expert in his field, Manning graduated from
Gettysburg College with a B.A. and received his M.S. degree from the University of Virginia. Following Manning's dissertation, Earl MacCormac,
associate professor of philosophy, will speak on “The Poetry of Science.” MacCormac graduated from Yale University where he received his
B.A., M.A., B.D., and his Ph.D.

On Tuesday night at 9:00, David Grant, assistant professor of biology, will open the night’s discussion with “The Ecological Middle
Man and the Technological Rat Race.” Frank W. Bliss, professor of English, will follow with “The Science of Poetry.”
