The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE TWO DECEMBER 18, 1970

Welcome Home

Welcome back, Dr. Spencer! You've been missed the past couple of months, and regrettably some hot tempers have boiled which need some cooling information. Perhaps your hottest problem will be dealing with the controversy over the recent administrative shuffle. Some faculty were understandably disturbed at what they felt was an unjustified lack of opportunity to participate in the decisions. Students generally approve of the newly-appointed dean of students, but deeply resent having had little part in the selection. Such a move not only hurts your relationship with students but also hampers the new dean.

Another problem you must deal with is the fraternity situation. The report of the Committee of 18 deserves your endorsement and active support. The effects of this year’s rush must be dealt with firmly for the best interests of all concerned. In your absence, restless freshmen have amassed impressive arsenals of fireworks and have offered almost nightly pyrotechnic displays despite illegalities and the disturbance of those who had other auditory desires.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Professor Congratulates Gridmen For ‘G

To The Editor:

Like State, Georgia, Army, Navy and many others, we didn't win them all this year, but, from the standpoint of quality of play, dedication, and brilliant performances, our “guys” had a tremendous season and will stand comparison with the best. In spite of heart-breaking losses to teams they outplayed on more than one occasion, our players never lost their desire to win, displaying throughout their schedule a courage and optimism, and a basic faith in their ability — “Modern Men of La Mancha," they might appropriately be called.

No doubt about it, these men deserve the respect, admiration, and appreciation of all of us who have been thrilled week after week by their display of fight, skill, and sportsmanship.

Your help is needed; what will you do when students return from their holidays with more fireworks? In conclusion, we hope your trip was profitable, but we hope you will supply the type of leadership badly needed here at home.

Three Blind Mice

Seasoned observers of Davidson’s social scene find it hard to believe that 110 freshmen were sucked into the dying exclusivity of the old fraternity system. One wonders which was greater, the salesmanship of the four participating fraternities or the gullibility of their victims. In light of the report of the Committee of 18 it made less sense to accept bids than it did to offer them. The report says specifically that over the Christmas vacation each freshman will be randomly assigned to one of the twelve houses to receive two measly weekly meals and full social benefits. Pledges have no guarantee of assignment to the fraternities they have affiliated with. As for the four fraternities involved, what they did to the rushees was at worst dishonest and at best short-sighted. Finally, recommendations specifically relating to this year’s rush should have been issued by the committee of 18 for the benefit of the fraternities and the protection of the freshmen. Despite this three-way bungle, a viable social pattern seems close at hand. The responsibility for success rests with all of us. Let us strive to make the transition.

Clearing The Air

The Committee on Campus Governance was created last spring by the Board of Trustees and given the responsibility of clarifying the nature of authority and responsibility in the organization of campus affairs. Unfortunately, committee action to date has been sparse. We have reached a point where the college system of “governance,” particularly the judiciary, has come under serious fire, to the point where community respect for it is at what must be an all-time low. Given the importance of their task, THE DAVIDSONIAN urges that the Committee on Campus Governance proceed as quickly as possible in the fulfillment of its mission and that it inform the student body soon of the role which it will be required to play in the approval of the reforms recommended.leaving Will Terry here and character. So, to this special breed of Cats (future leaders in many professions) and to Coach Fagg, Campagna, Todd, Brown, Couch, Stevens, and McEver, I, along with countless others, wish to express my deepest gratitude for the contribution these men have made to Davidson’s long history of “gutty football.”

Gutty Effort

Without question, a first year as promising as this one, in a period of rebuilding, gives us ample reason to be confident about the future of Wildcat football in the capable and dedicated hands of Coach Fagg and his great staff.

James Y. Causey
Davidson College

Cease-fire Demanded In Dorm Fireworks

To The Editor:

Three years ago I saw a fellow freshman literally climb the walls of his room in pain because he had sensitive ears and someone threw a single firecracker on our hall. This year my favorite senior, me, and other residents are figuratively being driven up the wall because we can't listen to music, study, or sleep. The clowns in the dorm next door think it’s the Fourth of July! Plan A was to yell obscenities at them out the window; plan B was to report specific rooms to the president of the RHC who, alas, was their hall counselor and mumbled something like, “If talking with them doesn’t work, then human life isn’t worth much;” plan C was a face-to-face confrontation on fourth floor Watts to tell them to cool it. Now, my band of supporters and myself are ready and willing to kick some people out of school, so I suggest an immediate cease-fire!

Bill Youkey ‘71
Davidson College

Something Of Value

Having led a sheltered life, it was only last weekend that I encountered Youth Culture: in Charlotte, of all places. It was a cut-rate showing of 2001, and all the “kids” were there. They were not impressive. The quality of conduct exhibited was similar to that of the cohorts of my unlettered youth, rather than a cultural avant-garde. The “kids” were little more than a herd when I encountered them. The continual interruption of a rather complex film by childish outbursts was only quieted by a scene near the end which involved an impressive display of colors. One poor specimen continually emitted a high-pitched, moronic laugh, obviously prompted by a stimulus more powerful than the film. All attempts to quiet him were met with the dazed response that he “just couldn’t stop laughing.”

It is, of course, unfair to judge a few individuals through external appearance and draw generalizations about a whole generation from this typecast group. The trappings of a counterculture do not necessarily indicate an understanding of its substance (provided, of course, the substance exists). Yet the point remains that great numbers of America’s youth have chosen a new lifestyle, the basis of which is a rejection of society’s traditional mores in favor of a personal way of life. And so what was once the way of life of a minute proportion of our society, usually artistically inclined, has been adopted by a mass.

Creation of a new lifestyle has usually implied a knowledge of what life ought to be which differed from that of society at large. The proliferation of this style, which now makes it the “in” thing to rebel against society, has resulted in a rejection of conventional morality without anything of substance to put in its place. The result of this development is that the evils against which part of the thrust of Youth Culture is directed have been transferred to the counterculture itself.

Maybe my response to the situation in question is, as noted above, the result of a sheltered life. Be that as it may, the conclusion is unavoidable that the old problems of insensitivity, unconcern for the rights of others, lack of identity, and loss of meaning in life are still with us, dressed in different clothes. We have only new forms of difficulty, not new men.

Merry Christmas.