Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” — Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO MAY 29, 1970

This Year And The Next

The Quips and Cranks, official death certificate for the academic year, has now been released, and we may sit back
and watch as the “continuing college community” (or more recently the “greater academic (w)hole”) settles into typical summer rigor mortis.
Your editors, however, cannot resist a few post mortem comments on the significant events, successes, and failures of the year
just passing.

PROMISES

There were several events during the past year that deserve special attention because they hold special promise and significance for
the future of the college over the next decades. Chief among these has to be listed the hiring of John
Bevan to be Davidson’s vice president for academic affairs. This man, if reports of his past successes are accurate indications
of his future in academic reform, could initiate great improvements in Davidson’s educational system.

Reactionary comments by Davidson’s more flagrant conservatives to the contrary notwithstanding, the Blue Sky Report has led to many significant
and much to be desired changes in the academic system at this college. More changes are in order though, and
a freer spirit of innovation such as that found at Florida Presbyterian where Bevan has served might actually make Davidson
a liberal arts institution worthy of its presently distorted and bloated image.

Along these same lines and of almost equal significance was the establishment of the Honors College. While the worth of
this institution also remains to be proved sometime in the future, it seems a valuable step in improving the often
pedantic atmosphere of education at Davidson.

Perhaps just as significant an advance for Davidson during the past school year was the establishment of WDAV—perhaps. We must
reserve judgment on this matter because the effect of the radio station will also be known only in the future.
As President Spencer pointed out in his remarks on the inaugural broadcast, WDAV will have primary impact on the college
only in the manner in which it influences the Davidson educational system. While this point was somehow missed or ignored
by the others who burned up the rest of the first ten minutes of air time, it is a point
which cannot be disregarded.

MOODS

To judge the mood of the campus as it might or might not have changed over the past year is
more difficult than to review past events, but signs are encouraging. It is time that Davidson ceased to be known
as a “safe” place to send one’s son. Rather, this school should be highly dangerous in the sense that one
could here be exposed to new and even radical ideas which view issues on the basis of merit rather than
popular support. No longer should it be possible for Davidson to be deemed safe even by the D.A.R.

In isolated instances the “official” picture was more encouraging than ever before (but in isolated instances only). Spencer’s flag-lowering resolution,
his statement to members of Congress and the faculty peace vigil all seemed signs of growing concern with extra-campus issues.

Hope-inspiring signs of greater activism among students were obvious over the past year. The two moratorium observances, the joining of
the National Student Association, protests over the President’s actions in Cambodia and Southeast Asia in general, and most recently the
ROTC protests were very encouraging signs. But the campus is far from radicalized, for to balance these apparent changes in
mood there were numerous indications of apparent moods that seemed to push the campus back for every step it might
have made forward.

Part of the Sigma Chi house disaffiliated from its national office last fall, and that was a good sign. But
now the house is again firmly in national control—a bad sign. Peter Hobbie led the largest anti-rush campaign ever, a
step forward, but 84 percent of the freshmen pledged fraternities (a step into the past). Students, or many of them,
were enraged at the injustices at Kent State, but similar violence at Jackson State was virtually ignored.

In short, the past year has shown that the minority of students trying to liberalize this campus face an almost
hopeless battle with entrenched conservatism and apathy. We wish them luck.

SETBACKS

It is unfortunate that official actions deserve all too much of the blame for stifling constructive change at this college.
What are concerned students to think when, for instance, the faculty refuses to eliminate compulsory examination requirements and further tightens
its rules on taking class attendance? What are concerned students to think when the faculty operates within a Code of
Responsibility at the same time that they are killing a proposal for 24-hour open dorms? Or what are students to
think of a Board of Trustees who affirm a plan for coeducation “in principle” but leave that principle with its
accompaniment of girls somewhere in the misty future by refusing to take steps to make the principle a reality?

Students just might begin to wonder (as the growth of ad hoc committees over the past year would indicate) exactly
how they can work to stop this undesirable course of events.

DELAYS

But in spite of a few promising signs however gossamer and many discouraging signs however concrete, significant changes are still
pending here at the college. We look to action over the summer and next fall to bring important progress to
Davidson.

Perhaps the greatest problem which will be hung over from this year to the next is that of fraternities. We
refuse to add further to the literature on the subject other than to say that the Student Life Committee (SLC)
is studying the matter. According to Spencer they are to propose significant changes for campus social life to the Board
of Trustees next fall. We look to the trustees for positive action.

Also still in abeyance are the three commission reports on Social Life, Extra-Campus Responsibility, and Church Relationship. In these areas
too we wait for significant action from the trustees.

The Code of Responsibility with its associated courts system is also due a review. In this area too the SLC
is contemplating action. At present there are both students and faculty who like to claim that the Code is not
working. We number ourselves among their opponents. In both positions certain changes in the Code are recognized as necessary, and
again we look to the trustees for specific action.

Finally there is the problem of campus governance. Davidson’s constipated bureaucracy is in desperate need of change simply because it
is not acting as it should to produce needed changes in other areas of the school. This too is a
problem expected to confront the trustees next fall.

A REQUEST

In short, the past year has been for Davidson one of some progress and indications of future progress as it
is hoped all years can be. It has been a year of some significant setbacks as no year should be.
And it has left us with a host of problems begging for immediate attention. We ask the trustees for the
attention these issues deserve. No one can be working more within the “system” than that. But no one can get
further out of the system than a group whose urgent needs are ignored.

THE FIRST STEP TO A SUCCESSFUL WEIGHT REDUCTION PROGRAM IS TO REDUCE THE SIZE OF YOUR STOMACH.
— © Field Enterprises, Inc., 1970

WELL THAT’S PRETTY STUPID, HOW DO I...

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Wheatley Acclaims War Protest, Disagrees With Limited Purpose

To the Editor:

I must admire and commend Professors Jackson, Kaylor, and Gaige for the sort of approach they have taken in their
anti-war discussion and protest. The nature of the protest is a new turn in protests that is the most healthy
thing I've seen in a long time. The normal or old style of protest cannot really be seen as attempting
to better a situation at all. This old form that I am referring to is the method of strike, sit-in,
violence, and vicious verbal attacks on those who disagree with the protest. I cannot see how it is possible to
influence others in the country to bring about an end to the war by...

Our Fans

To the Editor:

We were disturbed by THE DAVIDSONIAN article of May 15 pertaining to the peace vigil of May 6-8. The article
as published seriously distorted both the tone and the content of our remarks, and was consequently detrimental to campus communication.
Whether the distortion was due to the writer’s interpretation or to deletions made by the editor...

Activism

To the Editor:

As of May 25 it has been reported to us the sum of $2800.00 worth of stolen items from students’
rooms and cars starting this spring term. Whether or not those responsible are students or outsiders has not been ascertained.
Because of our lack of success in recovering these stolen goods, those involved may very well elect to play the
odds. Hence we would encourage all students to take the precautions they deem necessary to safeguard their property. If the
thefts were, in fact, committed by students, it is a pity that such warnings are necessary at an institution that
predicates its conduct on an honor code.

The Investigating Committee
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The following letter is in a sense a confession and also a charge to those members of the college community
who will continue on next year. Our class, like classes in the past, has been willing to accept with very
little questioning the...Insulting their way of life, their society, their cultural and moral standards, and their treasured institutions. A person
cannot be very easily influenced to see one’s point of view by calling him a fascist, a bigot, a chauvinist,
a reactionary, or even a hated member of “the establishment” or an effete honkey. The new turn taken by Jackson,
Gaige, and Kaylor is designed to do the opposite, to create communication between those who disagree on the issue, to
try to get others, whether Congressmen or townspeople, to see one’s point of view, not is of minor consequence. We
wish to thank those who supported us—both faculty and students; we were especially grateful for those who spent long hours
with us and for the large number present at the end of the vigil. We appreciate the fact that the
man who did not agree with us did not resort to insulting language.

Contrary to THE DAVIDSONIAN, we were not “angered” by anyone or anything; rather we expressed our appreciation for the fact
that many faculty and administration members signed the petition to President Nixon and that some actively participated with us. We
did state that we were disappointed more of those who shared our views did not participate. The opinion was expressed
by several faculty members who were in sympathy with our cause that there had been too many demonstrations and that
such demonstrations were no longer effective. We expressed to THE DAVIDSONIAN reporter our feeling that to discourage peaceful dissent on
the ground that it would be ineffective would encourage frustration and possibly lead to violent protests; therefore, we felt that
it would be irresponsible not to encourage those who oppose the present administration's policy to engage in peaceful dissent. We
were pleased by the student response to the vigil. Many students participated at various times, and at the end of
the 58-hour period, there were over one hundred students present. Throughout the vigil, there was constant discussion among faculty and
students, many of whom were sincerely attempting to reach their own conclusions about the war and related issues. In that
sense, we believe it was a significant educational experience.

We felt that community response was mixed. We were pleased by the overwhelming positive response of the black community. Nearly
two hundred members of the black community signed the petition, and a number joined us in the vigil. We were
sorry that the form of the protest did not encourage more dialogue with the white townspeople. We hope your readers
will ignore the article of May 15 and consider this letter to be a more accurate reflection of our real
feelings.

David Kaylor
Fred Gaige
Bill Jackson
Davidson College

However, I seriously question the possibility of such meaningful dialogue. This objective is thwarted by the emotion-laden nature of the
protest in the wake of the Kent State tragedy, which even led Kaylor to refer to those professors who disagreed
with the demonstrations as having “an irresponsive excuse” for not participating in the discussion. However, I felt that I could
not support this new protest either. First of all, I disagree with the limited aim of the protest. I am
against the war in Vietnam, but I feel that this protest is not against the war but against the Nixon
administration. I feel that the protest is an attempt to catch Nixon so that he cannot act either way. By
denying him room to act decisively militarily at the same time that he is withdrawing our troops, it leaves him
with the unfortunate choice of either withdrawing in an obvious move of admitting defeat in Vietnam or of continuing the
present situation. Either road he chooses should be sufficient to defeat him in the next election.

Even so, this would allow my participation in the discussions against the war, since the professors desired communication and discussion
on the subject.

Thomas B. Wheatley ‘70
Davidson College

Uncle Percival’s Wart Remover
By David Sweatt

The Bitter End?

The Frenchman Maillard reports, “It is always the violence of the oppressor that unleashes the violence of the oppressed.” Violence
is not essentially intertwined with tumult and brutal blows and human bodies writhing in agony. Violence is equally as real,
more pervasive, and more iniquitous in its quieter forms. There is violence here. For decades Davidson has had the idea
that every problem could be solved by rules and “good will.” This superficial idealism, refusing to recognize the quiet violence,
paves the way for violence to break out in retaliation.

Today, administrators and faculty members are stunned when students reward their “good will” and their “we-only-carry-out-the-rules” answers with revilement. But
that is because they have never examined the reality, because their ideals are based on a superficial idealism. What is
worse than the pap doled out to students in such condescending gestures as “open meetings” is the possibility that these
guys actually believe that they are saying something. Pull back the veil of smiles and gentle tones, and the meetings
turn out to be just a sop, a bribe to buy time and hope that the students will forget about
the whole thing. In the case of the Ad Hoc Committee, many of us are seniors (not playing our role—seniors
are supposed to be completely apathetic) and it is obvious that if things could be put off long enough, they
could be put off forever. Unfortunately for students, this strategy of attrition has been a complete success. And so the
hypocrisy goes on: students fall victims to the quiet violence of committees that are “only enforcing the rules.” The rules
may be stupid, even insane, but they are enforced with the utmost moralistic dedication.

It’s not criminal to make mistakes, it’s not even immoral. And it is axiomatic for men to believe that they
have always been fair, just, and all that other jazz. But at the cost of other peoples’ lives? The fog
of uncertainty that surrounded the first year of the Spencer administration has been burned away by the events of this
school year: drug trials, open dorms, the scuttling of the Ad Hoc Committee, and most recently by the strictures placed
on the performance of a student’s play. It is apparent now, even to those who long defended the new administration
from its critics, that the students don’t have a president of the College. It is the “Continuing College Community” that
has a president, deans, and administrators here. The College is run to please them and to “educate” the students.

Who knows? Some of the men in these positions might even like to see things different here, but because of
the real or imagined powers of the CCC, they have to run the College to suit those who control things
from behind the scenes. In little more than two weeks, some of us will undergo those sacred rites by which
we are metamorphosed from lowly members of the student body to become members of the exalted “Continuing College Community.” Perhaps
then we shall be given the revelation of why things have to be done so backwardly here. But the College
goes on, the senseless moralistic whole forges into the future with a seeming obligation to talk with any but “constitutional
groups” of students, with students being unnecessarily hurt by stupid rules, with the faculty having the arrogance to dictate the
lives of students in the most personal of matters, and with a farcical honors college that has been a choice
morsel for twenty students.

Seniors are bitter—but they’re leaving. Underclassmen are bitter—they’re not leaving. The bitter end may well be the bitter beginning.
