Page Two November 6, 1970

IN HOC SIGNO VINCES. It must be of some comfort to our Slater-fed readers to see this sign every day
as they pass through the line and to know that someone back there cares. But one wonders, do they really
obey the sign? Is everything in the food really on a recipe? Hmm....

Iverson Works In
By JEFF ALLENDER
Copy Editor

Bill Iverson, inner-city luncheonette owner and social worker, will speak at an Open End Thursday night at 10:15 in the
College Union. While serving as pastor of the First Reformed Church of Newark, Iverson, a 1949 Davidson graduate, decided that
the ghetto youth needed a place to come to and "someone to communicate with." So he decided to set up
the Cross Counter Luncheonette in the Newark slums to give a place where ghetto youths might be able to find
jobs, and also as a sort of "rescue mission" for delinquents.

The youth of the Newark community need someone to discuss their problems with, according to Iverson, and that is the
purpose of his being there, he said. The diner stayed open through the Newark riots of 1967, and throughout the
three days and nights it became a meeting place for National Guard and blacks of the community. More than 300
collegians have joined with Iverson in the Crosscounter program, assisting in the organization of block parties, house churches, coffee houses,
singing groups, teen clubs, and street encounters. Iverson is at Davidson partly to recruit some of a staff of 40
to 50 students to work with him during the summer months. Some students may be eligible to receive academic credit
for this work.

Senior Ron Stelzer joined the Urban Field College during the spring term last year and stayed on the staff for
the summer. He worked with delinquent youth, forming basketball clinics at various ghetto high schools, and received academic credit for
his efforts. In addition to the Open End talk, Iverson will speak in the Green Room of the Union at
10 am. Friday, November 13. Time will be allocated after the presentation to allow Iverson to answer any questions about
his work for possible student internships.

Chief Associate: PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editors: DICK ANDERSON, RUSS MERRITT, JOE SMITH
Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT, DON PARMAN
Sports Editor: ERNIE SHIPE
Assistant Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD WILSON
Copy Editors: JEFF ALLENDER, STEVE CROSS
News Editor: SCOTT DAVIDSON
Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE
Assistant Sports Editor: A. W. TURNER
Cartoonists: J. B. FAWCETT, ZACK MOBLEY, CULLUM ROGERS, DARYL WILLIAMS
Circulation Managers: BRUCE PUCKETT, HOWARD RAMAGLI
Photographers: DAVE DOTY, ROGER MANLEY, SAM RAMACHANDRAN, BOB STRAND

Contributors this week: Joe Earle, Dave Tierney, Howard Boyd, Hal Canter, Jim Hanna, Alec Hoon, and David Hanig.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

Ostwalt Explains Details
By RUSS MERRITT
Associate Editor

Acting in regard to a growing concern among members of the sophomore class, the Education Policy Committee stressed in its
meeting Monday that there have been no changes in requirements for that class under the Extended Studies Program. Dr. Jay
H. Ostwalt, associate dean of the faculty and registrar, said that the EPC emphasized that the present sophomore class will
be given the option of taking two courses to fulfill extended studies requirements. Already available to sophomores are options of
area exams, reading lists and evaluations, and special projects approved by area studies committees. The action by the EPC came
as a result of confusion among students regarding the new program.

By ALEC HOON
Staff Writer

The Honors College, one of the prominent innovations in Davidson’s curriculum, has made a "promising beginning," according to Frontis Johnston,
dean of the Honors College. Dean Johnston pointed to the fact that twenty-four students are already enrolled in the program,
and that more will be accepted later this month. "Most of those enrolled split their course load by taking one
or more courses in the regular college program and independent study in the honors program," he remarked. "Later in the
fall term, individual students will give public readings."of their research,” he said.

Convocation Composer

Heinz Werner Zimmerman and organ professor David Craighead will be guest artist-lecturers for Davidson’s eleventh annual Sacred Music Convocation on
Nov. 13-14. Zimmerman, a native of Germany whose church music in jazz idiom has received international attention, will speak in
Hodson Hall at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Friday on “Modern Music for the Church.” At 8:15 p.m., an organ
concert in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church will be presented by David Craighead, chairman of the organ department at the
University of Rochester's Eastman School of Music and organist of St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Rochester. His program will include
Marcel Dupre’s “Triptyque,” Bach’s “Prelude and Fugue in A Minor,” “Symphony in G,” and other works. The concert will be
free and open to the public.

Saturday will feature a 10 a.m. master class on style and registration led by Craighead, and a 1:45 p.m. workshop
on contemporary church music by Zimmerman.

Confusion over academic requirements among many sophomores. Similar confusion over academic requirements early last year led to a confrontation between
the concerned students and administrators. “Present sophomores,” Ostwalt said, “can meet their requirements with an extra course taken in the
spring terms of their freshman and sophomore years. Those students in the sophomore class who so desire can satisfy the
requirements by taking an examination in one of the four areas and by taking only one extra course. Requirements for
the present freshman class vary somewhat. Whereas the sophomores can satisfy their requirements with two extra courses, freshmen can get
extended studies credit for only one extra course. The remaining credit must be achieved by passing an area examination, by
passing an evaluation of an in-depth reading list, or by completing some approved special project. Extended studies programs in the
junior and senior years are to be done within the major departments of the individual students.

Ostwalt said that there are several alternatives that the EPC is presently working on under the extended studies curriculum. Among
these options are possible experimental programs such as special seminars, work projects, and college-wide programs, such as concerts and films
on relevant topics.

Meanwhile, sophomore class president Bob Edmunds has called for a class meeting Tuesday afternoon in Hodson Hall at 4 to
talk with Dr. John M. Bevan, vice president for academic affairs. Edmunds said that the primary topic for discussion will
be the Extended Studies Program.

Dean Sees Honors

Johnston also noted that four of the students are presently involved in studies away from the Davidson campus. Two of
these, Jimmy Trussell and Rich Cowart, are working in seminars at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. There
are five faculty members working with the program, he said, who split their time and energies between their regular departments
and the Honors College. “Each student has an advisor (one of the five faculty members) to help him arrange his
program and to guide him,” Johnston said.

Pointing to plans for the future, Johnston mentioned the “historically prominent” Carolina Inn, which the college owns. He said that
President Spencer had proposed to the trustees that the building be renovated to become the Honors College headquarters. “The trustees
approved the recommendation, but more money is needed before the project can be begun,” he noted.

Speaking on the prospects for future applicants, Johnston stated, “We invite anyone to apply for admission for the winter term
or thereafter. One can get a general statement of policy from my office in Eumenean Hall.” The application deadline for
the winter term is November sixteenth, he said. Interviews would be conducted later in the month followed by notification of
acceptance.

Commenting on the Honors College as it now exists early in its formative years, Johnston remarked, “In my judgment, it
has made a promising beginning. We have numerous individual programs underway upon which no permanent judgment can yet be made.
However, we believe that the flexibility and challenge of the Honors College program provides a great opportunity for the students
and meets one of their greatest needs. I hope to see it expand in the immediate future, both in numbers
of students and faculty.”
