Page Four January 23, 1970

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE: WINTER TERM 1969-1970

Monday
9 a.m. — 8 O'clock Classes
March 16
2 p.m. — 3 O'clock Classes

Tuesday
9 a.m. — 9 O'clock Classes
March 17
2 p.m. — 1 O'clock Classes

Wednesday
9 a.m. — 4 O'clock Classes
March 18
2 p.m. — 11 O'clock Classes

Thursday
9 a.m. — 2 O'clock Classes
March 19
2 p.m. — 2 O'clock Classes

Friday
9 a.m. — 10 O'clock Classes
March 20
2 p.m. — 12 O'clock Classes

Black Prospects Favorable To What Davidson Can Be
By JOHN FINE
Copy Editor

The reaction of the dozen prospective Black students who visited the campus several weeks ago was basically positive, according to
senior Calvin Murphy who organized the two-day program. "They seemed much impressed with Davidson in academic and social life," Murphy
said. Of the 12 attending, five have already applied for admission and the rest are in the process of filing
applications or are seriously considering applying.

"The students gave me the impression that they were very impressed with Davidson and the place it can become," said
Jim Parks. He cited the addition of more relevant courses, Black studies courses, black professors, and coeducation as the changes
about which they were enthusiastic.

Independent Campaign Ignored, Fraternities Take 229 Pledges

The following pledged themselves to fraternities after this year’s rush:

ALPHA TAU OMEGA:
Steve Black, Mike Shibley, Bruce Breard, Luther Johnson, Mike Ernst, Tom Talbert, Walter Kruger, Wally Tinsley, Bert Peterson, Bob Wright,
Jimmy Edwards, Bill Gupton, David Crump, John Thompson, Joel Bradley.

BETA THETA PI:
Bill Burwell, Clayton Daley, Tom Dover, Mike Stovall, Ralph Scoville, Rich Zimmerman, Blake Wood, Lewis Galloway, Hi Lankenau, Randy Ely,
Skip Auld, Ty Church, Alvin Strasburger, John Robinson, Charlie Williams, Drew Lemen.

KAPPA ALPHA:
David Shaffner, Elliott Savage, Jim Claunch, Bill Lawing, Sandy McLean, Dick Clay, Butch Barton, Gray Wilson, Robert Dawson, Brent Lane,
Jimmy Moye, Daryl Williams, Lee Salisbury.

KAPPA SIGMA:
Greg Webster, Randy Davis, Lynn Wagner, Pete Beasley, Fred Jorgenson, Joe Phillips, Rob Miller, Kenny Bello, Rollie Cameron, Sandy Finch,
David Griffiths, Al Cay, John Trostorff, Bobby Kelly, Bill Clark.

SIGMA CHI:
Fred Miller, Bill Cholok, Henry Brown, Dale Smith, Reggie Kennedy, Don Hague, Stanfield, John Wackman, Skip Holcomb, Charlie Moseley, Clay
Gatewood, Jason Soc, Jeb Henley, Doug Platt.

PI KAPPA ALPHA:
Dick Mehlen, Frank Smith, Seaton Taylor, Bob Ramsey, Bill Mayfield, Dennis Watson, Jim Campbell, Tom Howard, John Pecorak, Hunter Brown,
Ray Brown, Peter Spink, Gordon Graham, Joe Sutter.

PHI DELTA THETA:
Rich Moretz, Mike Sikes, Andy Ingles, Randy Lassiter, Bill Bracken, Mark Pandick, Scotty Shipp, Vic Flemming, Andy Davis, Bobby Koury,
Steve Wright, Jack Nichols, Drew White, Bic Halligan, Bob E. Lewis, Mike Deese, Tom Campen, Scott Davidson, Mait Browning, David
Mast, Robert Banta, Mike Kelly, Greg McCall, Jim Brown.

PHI GAMMA DELTA:
Ted Heefner, Tommy Lane, Mike Tombari, Rob Peterson, Fred Ourt, Carl Rizzo, Bill Nicklas, George Crowell, Harold Bailey, Garry Coulter,
Steve Akers, Bob Robinson, David Wymer, Jeff Dumansky, John Willits, Don Ploger, David Nash, Peter Morgan, Bruce Batter, Robert D.
Lewis, Nick Roberto.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON:
Keith Dull, Newell Robinson, Bruce Baird, Eddie Seiber, David Varner, David Weaver, Thomas Rhett Boyd, Stan Hassinger, Carl Patterson, Neil
Trask, Henry Jennings, Scott Sheftall, Tad Porter, Neil McGruder, Tommy Reed, Sam Mitchener, Neil Coghill, Dick Fort, George Saslow, Rusty
Vaughn.

SIGMA NU:
Jay Conoley, Sammy Gayner, Lee Farner, Skip Greathouse, Rick White, Bill Humbert, Tim Webster, Martin MacDowell, Jim Doss, Bob Potter,
Charlie Davis, Scott Beard, Gary Long.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON:
Bill Alexander, Rob Benton, Paul Caldwell, Ron Clark, Mike Collins, Mike Creasman, Mark Deininger, Brent "Mac" Donaldson, Dick Downey, Larry
Duncan, Bob Edmunds, Bill Endy, Ken Freed, Robert Gates, Dwight Grady, Jeff Graham, Craig Harris, Eddie Johnston, George Kaneklides, Rob
Krebs, Ralph Peeples, Bruce Puckett, Steve Shepard, Bruce Snyder, Larry Spears, Pete Stavrides, Sefton Stevens, Steve Suflas, Ben Towe, Rich
Wilson, Rusty Winchester.

‘Getting Involved’ Is Analyst’s Goal

Meredith Hall, Davidson's new clinical psychologist, has joined the Davidson community in the hope of improving communication between individuals and
campus factions.

"I have only one vested interest: to help people communicate," he said. The college community is an exciting place in
which people are becoming more aware of that which goes on in life, Hall said. "I'm looking forward to getting
involved. I am certainly going to express some proposals and hope that some of them catch fire," he said.

One idea which he would like to bring into action is a faculty open-end or encounter group involving faculty members.
These groups would be "just faculty members getting together discussing concerns they have about their work. I see myself as
facilitating the communication within that group, helping it to develop cohesiveness," Hall said.

Hall indicated that he would like to assist in expanding human growth. "Another way of looking at life other than
with the question 'Why?' Academic pursuits tend to impress this outlook on students, causing them to seek concrete answers to
subjective experiences which do not follow a discernible cause and effect relationship," Hall said.

Welsh Explores Music

Dr. Wilmer Welsh, professor of music at Davidson, recently defined a series of public lectures on the music of the
Far East. According to Welsh, "Each large culture group took these limitations on melody and exploited them in different ways.
The East developed a style based on melody, and the West adopted a style based on harmony."

Welsh then specified some of the varying musical traditions within the Oriental mainstream, the most significant being the Chinese, Indonesian,
Japanese, and Indian modes. Welsh illustrated the various uses of melody and harmony in the Oriental musical tradition by playing
tapes of Oriental musical compositions. His listeners found the technique entertaining as well as informative. At one point during the
lecture, students began tapping the table tops in time with the music.

"We in the West believe that when something is done differently, it is wrong," he concluded. "But we should realize
that each musical culture has its own unique contribution to make."

In addition to the series of lectures on the music of the Far East, a course titled "The Civilization of
Modern India" will be offered. Dr. Gaige hopes to eventually set up an interdisciplinary team-taught course on South Asia.Kes Woodward,
the visitors were most concerned. The visit was an outgrowth of Murphy's recruiting trip last summer. Ten of the 12
attending students had talked with him during the summer. Murphy was pleased with the results of the program, “I don't
think anybody was disappointed. As a matter of fact, I think it was a smash," he said. Some of the
guys were unable to attend because of previous commitments, Murphy said. “We are hoping to have at least another 10-15
guys come down, although probably not together as the others did.” Most of the prospective students live in the Southeast,
within visiting range of the school. According to Murphy, several of the students had been to visit other schools, but
none of them had had a group similar to the one at Davidson. The joint program allows the students to
meet their prospective classmates as well as tour the school, which is an asset in promoting the school, Murphy observes.
Money is the biggest drawing factor. “I hope that will not be an obstacle. We should be able to work
out something if they want to come here,” he said.

The visitors were screened before invitations were sent out so that no one who was not qualified for admission would
be deluded into thinking that he had a chance to be admitted. Screening was carried out by contacting the guidance
counselors of the schools for an assessment of each student's capability based on his academic record. “The guys were extremely
impressive,” Parks said. “They were the most together group I have ever seen in my life.”

Friday, January 23
8:15 p.m. Open Faculty

Saturday, January 24
9 a.m. Deferred Examinations
1:30 p.m. Basketball: Davidson vs. Princeton

Tuesday, January 27
7:30 p.m. South Asia Program
8 p.m. Basketball: Davidson vs. WVU

Wednesday, January 28
8 p.m. Foreign Affairs Symposium “Obligations and Limitations of U.S. Foreign Policy,” Dr. Peter M. Krogh, Assoc. Dean, Fletcher School
of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts U.

Thursday, January 29
8 p.m. Foreign Affairs Symposium
8 p.m. Lecture? Rep. Al Lowenstein (D-N.Y.)

Friday, January 30
MIDWINTERS WEEKEND
8-10 p.m. James Cotton
10:30-11:30 p.m. Stony Brook People
12-2 a.m. Movie “Blow Up”
2:30 a.m. Coffee & Donuts
3-5 a.m. Pervis Lee

Saturday, January 31
1:30-2:30 p.m. “Dracula”
5-6:30 p.m. Supper
8-10 p.m. Anthony and the Imperials
10-2 a.m. The Tropics
12:00 midnight “Dracula”
2-4 a.m. Movie “Blow Up”
3-4:30 a.m. Breakfast
3-5 a.m. Private Dining Room, The Southern Feeling

Seven Students Travel To Hellas, Italy On Classic Tour
By BILL ESKRIDGE Staff Writer

Seven students and a classics professor will travel through the Greece and Italy of ancient and modern times in the
Spring Term Seminar in Classics Abroad.

Faculty Meeting To Hear Area Studies Proposals
By GRAY WILSON Staff Writer

There will be an open faculty meeting this afternoon at 1:00 in the Morrison Room of the Union. Coffee will
be served. Dr. Johnston, Dean of the Faculty, said that the purpose of the meeting is to discuss the subject
of an area studies program which would replace the one rejected by the faculty earlier in the school year. In
its last meeting in December, the faculty voted to retain an area studies program at Davidson. Several members of the
faculty have prepared suggestions which will be submitted at the meeting today.

SPORT COATS
75.00 — 55.00
65.00 — 45.00
60.00 — 40.00
55.00 — 35.00

SHIRTS
8.50 — 6.00
8.00 — 6.00
7.50 — 5.50

Large Group of Shoes (Wingtips, Plain ties, and Tassels) Values to 34.00

DAVIDSON, N. C. WINTER CLEARANCE SALE THE RED HANGER Starts Thursday, Jan. 22nd, 1970 At 9:00

SWEATERS
13.00 — 8.50
16.00 — 11.00
16.95 — 12.00
18.00 — 13.00

Now 30% Off THE RED HANGER

Dr. George Labban Jr., professor of classics and director of the seminar, said that the seminar would “provide a first-hand
insight into classical culture and an opportunity to relate that insight on the scene to subsequent studies.” Labban stressed that
“the seminar is not a course designed for majors in classics, but rather it is a program in which individuals'
interests from many areas may be developed in a classical setting.” Much of the material of the seminar, which will
give two course credits in classics, will be presented by the students. Each student will be responsible for leading an
instructional session at two sites and for undertaking an independent project. “The results of the project may take the form
of a carefully authenticated report, a photographic or cinematic documentary, artistic compositions, or literary compositions,” the informational letter said. The
seminar abroad will give the participating students the opportunity to “learn how to maneuver in a foreign situation and to
deal with other people in the context of present-day situations," according to Labban.

Phone 892-2111 Davidson, N. C. Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. — Sunday 9:30 to 10:30
131 N. Main St.

The seven students of the seminar have been chosen from the sophomore and junior classes. In a letter sent to
all members of those classes, Labban stressed that “the seminar is not a course designed for majors in classics, but
rather it is a program in which individuals' interests from many areas may be developed in a classical setting.” Much
of the material of the seminar, which will give two course credits in classics, will be presented by the students.
Each student will be responsible for leading an instructional session at two sites and for undertaking an independent project. “The
results of the project may take the form of a carefully authenticated report, a photographic or cinematic documentary, artistic compositions,
or literary compositions,” the informational letter said. The seminar abroad will give the participating students the opportunity to “learn how
to maneuver in a foreign situation and to deal with other people in the context of present-day situations," according to
Labban.

The meeting is to be unofficial, and no action is to be taken. Suggestions will be forwarded to the Educational
Policy Committee which will take its proposals from the ideas expressed.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

“You don't have to be an egghead to appreciate Northwestern Mutual!”
The NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE Insurance Company
“Because there IS a difference!”
Bob Stone 892-1424 North Main
Ed Childs 892-1467 South Main

MID-WINTERS
We Can Help You To Look Neat For The Weekend
Bring Your Sports and Dress Clothes Along With Your Shirts
Jackson Cleaners DEPOT STREET

Sportcoats, Carcoats, Jackets, Slacks, Sweaters and more at greatly reduced prices! Now's the time! Come fill your arms with winter
wearables (All nationally known brands) at John Mack & Son, Mooresville.
