Page Four May 1, 1970

Crane Up ’n’ Coming

Friday, May 1
All day Tennis: Southern Conference Match Here
2 p.m. Track: Fort Eustis, Va. Southern Conference Meet
2 p.m. Lecture: Dr. George Wald, Love Auditorium, Nobel Prize Winner
7:30 p.m. Hungry Mara Loves

Saturday, May 2
Morrison Room
All day Tennis: Southern Conference Match Here
1:30 p.m. Baseball with E.C.U. Here
2 p.m. Track: Fort Eustis, Va. Southern Conference Meet
7:30 p.m. Hungry Mara Loves

Monday, May 4
10 a.m. Open Meeting with Admissions & Financial Aid Committee, Morrison Room
1:30 p.m. Golf with Wake Forest
8:15 p.m. Fine Film: “8½”

Tuesday, May 5
10 a.m. Nick Galifianakis, Winston-Salem, N.C., Love Auditorium
2 p.m. Ecology Teach-In, Perkins Auditorium
2:30 p.m. Tennis with Pfeiffer
7:30 p.m. Film: “Der Verschwender”
7:30 p.m. Seminar on Environmental Quality
8:03 p.m. Film: “Barbarella”

Wednesday, May 6
10 a.m. Open Meeting with Dr. Hight, Admissions Committee, Morrison Room
2 p.m. Film: “ODEM Watermelons,” Morrison Room
2:30 p.m. Tennis with High Point College
3 p.m. Film: “Awful Blacklash,” Hodson Hall
8 p.m. Reynolds Lecturer: Dr. C. Van Woodward, Love Auditorium

Thursday, May 7
9 a.m. Film: "Gift of Choice," Perkins Auditorium
9 a.m. Film: “Road to Santiago,” Perkins Auditorium
10 a.m. Dr. C. Van Woodward, Perkins Auditorium
11 a.m. Question and Answer Period for Dr. Woodward
11 a.m. Film: “Gathering Millions,” Perkins Auditorium
3 p.m. Baseball with Belmont Abbey Here
8 p.m. Open Meeting with President Spencer, Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. Drama Production: “Dark of the Moon,” Hodson Hall

Friday, May 8
10 a.m. Open Meeting with Admissions and Financial Aid Committee, Morrison Room
8:03 p.m. Film: “Barbarella,” Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. Drama Production: “Dark of the Moon,” Hodson Hall

Saturday, May 9
2:15 p.m. Drama Production: “Dark of the Moon,” Hodson Hall
8:03 p.m. Film: “Barbarella,” Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. Drama Production: “Dark of the Moon,” Hodson Hall

The Davidsonian

American Culture Invades Woodstock’s Dream Fare

A REVIEW By BILL DAVENPORT

You want to find the truth in life,
Don’t pass music by
Now I wouldn't lie
No I would not lie
Down in Monterey.
—Eric Burdon, “Monterey,” 1967

“Woodstock” is only a partial success. Though the movie attempts to make loaves for the multitude from the offerings made
upon the mammoth plywood stage (altar) at the rural New York scene near the home of the prophet, Bob Dylan,
it only succeeds in making one hungry for more. Pardon the dubious attempt to establish religious analogies. Yet in the
pop festival one can find manifestations of some distinctly All-American motifs. They are part Thoreau in the guise of the
Canned Heat singing “Going Up To The Country,” part Huckleberry Finn wanting to “light out for the Territories.” Read Twain’s
adventures of Colonel Bunkum sometime. This preacher’s gospel revival (Creedence Clearwater Revival?) camp meetings are fully as Dionysian as anything
staged in the Sixties.

To equip themselves for the three days of concerts, many Woodstockers made use of such arriere-garde accoutrements as Army tents
and Sears Roebuck Camper Trailers, just as they once undoubtedly did for Boy Scout Camporees. A further aspect of American
Culture is made apparent in the structure of the documentary itself. “Woodstock” is entirely a presentation of cyclic episodes. One
is presented with a brilliant rock act, then switched to a scene of heads or townspeople or preparations for the
show, and then back to more music. Implicit everywhere is Middle American social optimism, the desire to make everything “come
together,” as the Beatles say. The kids may have broken down a fence, but rest assured, theatergoers, they were not
violent. Bad trips may have been numerous, but the Army was right on hand with helpful medical teams.

Well so what! Who cares! Perhaps I am a lone maniac, but what I expected (and what “Woodstock” failed to
provide) was excitement. More specifically, I hoped for the excitement of vicariously living the lives of my rock ‘n’ roll
heroes. The movie presents only the final orgasmic moments of their performances. I wanted to know more about them, to
find out how they pick up girls or spend days off.

But what can a poor boy do
‘Cept to play for a rock ‘n’ roll band,
‘Cause in sleepy London town
There’s just no place for a Street Fighting Man
—Mick Jagger

Why am I so curious about these performers? It’s because there’s no one else for a kid to emulate. What
other young public heroes are there these days? The political young Left is, it seems, about to be liquidated. Few
of us want to follow the military model or become young Dagwoods in gray flannel suits or be really earnest,
tight-assed intellectuals—for reasons too ridiculously obvious to mention. Butch Cassidy has run out of frontier, and Jack Kerouac has been
followed by Alex Portnoy. The movie stars, long im-

Smith Claims ‘General Cutback’ Has Caused Placement Problems

By JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer

Union Placement Office head C. Shaw Smith said seniors have had the smallest job market since the late 1950s. He
cited a “general cutback in the economy” as the probable cause. “Companies say they are having to shift people around,
making use of what they have, instead of generally increasing their staff,” he related. Many of the technical fields are
devoid of new jobs because of a cutback in government spending, he added. “Accountants are having good luck, but engineers
are not doing well, as technical people have saturated the field.”

In the local situation, instead of students having three or more job offers to choose from, as has been common
in the past, students working through the Placement Office have not been reluctant to take a job at a going
salary, he said. “It makes us a little more humble, a little more grateful, for the opportunities we do have
this year,” Smith continued. “Some of our boys have, this year, taken starting jobs for $800, but they've been very
few.”

Possibly the major reason for this, according to Smith, is that instead of the normal number of more than 60
companies holding interviews on campus, only 40 to 50 companies came this year. “Some of the bigger and better companies
didn't come this year, including some of the standard ones which we could normally count on for several offers.”

A comparable drop in the number of seniors signing up for the placement service has been noticed, 49 this year
compared to last year's 64. “We thought there would be an increase because of the draft lottery, which would let
students plan with certainty,” Smith explained. “Some attribute this to the fact that the job market is not as good;
my impression is it's due to the growing interest in graduate schools and other education after graduation.

Davidson is not as strongly affected by the practical side of immediate placement as most schools, according to Smith, because
of the large number of students interested in graduate schools, and others with military service ahead. “Most of the students
who register with us each year are not seeking current employment but are exploring the job market two to seven
years away,” he explained.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

It is because the general employment picture is so different this year, we have attempted to be more personal than
usual with students still interested in exploring job opportunities, particularly current job opportunities. For this reason, the long-term outlook has
not been affected adversely. We still expect these men to get good jobs and to enjoy good opportunities ultimately.

After the publication of an analysis of the declining fraternity court membership, person or persons unknown stole papers and personal
effects from DAVIDSONIAN associate editor Russ Merritt. Missing was a Humanities theme and several personal letters. The thefts were reported
to the Honor Court, but as of publication, no action had been taken and members of the Investigating Committee had
not been officially charged to investigate.

In a controversial article published in last week's DAVIDSONIAN, Merritt had charged that disillusionment with fraternities was creating a crisis
among several houses around the court. Examples of houses facing a problem of brothers going inactive were pointed out.

Professor Loses House In Fire

A fire burned the partially completed home of chemistry professor H. Alden Bryan Monday night. The blaze at the Pine
Street site was noticed by neighbors about 9:30 p.m., and the Davidson volunteer firemen were called. The Cornelius firemen also
helped battle the blaze. The timber structure in the early framing stages was too dry and open to be saved
from the flames. Officials speculated that arsonists may have caused the fire.

Dorm Search Conflict Continues; RHC May Stop Forced Entrances

AN ANALYSIS By GRAY WILSON Asst. Managing Editor

“Except in extreme emergencies dormitory rooms and student vehicles shall not be searched except by a person so authorized by
Dean of Students or the chairman of the appropriate court.” This quote from the Code of Responsibility comprises the text
of the so-called “dorm search" policy at Davidson. The statement is a source of general apprehension among some students, who
feel that the Code may have been abused by prowling administration officers and campus employees. These accusations of an invasion
of privacy are particularly interesting in view of the recent student-faculty controversy over 24-hour dorms.

Stagg Newman, chairman of the Regulations Court, explained the procedures involved in a room investigation. “To enter a room in
order to obtain evidence, the person must have a search warrant issued in accordance with the provision of the Code."
In addition to a formal dorm search, Newman believes “that evidence obtained while a person is in a room with
the permission of the occupant would also be admissible in court.” But he added his interpretation that “if a person
enters a room without either the permission of the occupant or a search warrant, any evidence he obtained as a
result of entering the room would not be admissible in the court.” Newman pointed out that the dorm search policy
is roughly analogous to investigating procedures among civil authorities, but that any school action must take into account the provision
of the Code which states: “No evidence in violation of right of privacy shall be admitted.”

Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. denied that there have been any dorm searches recently, and that any investigations
to be made would proceed only with the proper authorization in the form of a warrant. He explained that the
campus policemen who make the rounds of the halls each night are not allowed to conduct any room searches. He
affirmed his belief that the “current paranoia” among students is quite unfounded because it has been over a year and
a half since a warrant was last issued. “The administration is interested only in matters of general concern to the
welfare of the community,” he said.

No More Spring Frolics?

By TOM VERNON Associate Editor

Two sophomores, Terry Hirst and Cecil Burney, have been carrying on informal discussions with students and members of the college
administration on prospects for reorganization of the social calendar. They hope to eliminate the three traditional big weekends at Davidson.
Much of the information used in their argument has come from Mrs. Peter Nicholls, Director of Student Housing. In an
interview last week, Mrs. Nicholls cited student dissatisfaction with having to move out of the dorms as a major factor.
In addition to this, however, Mrs. Nicholls noted a significant decrease in the number of rooms needed for dates over
the past few years, and an increase in the number of rooms being used for the dates of out-of-town friends.
Mrs. Nicholls stated there were enough places for dates in the surrounding community, and advocated use of these facilities alone
and leaving the men in their dorms. Concomitant with moving the men out is added security risks, which Mrs. Nicholls
sees as a growing problem. Hirst and Burney favor spending the money presently used for big weekends on a series
of concert weekends to supplement the Artist Series and the UCH.

Sgt. Louis Penley, supervisor of the maintenance department on campus, has been criticized for interrupting students in their rooms, but
he denies having ever intentionally interfered with their privacy. “As to searching rooms, I have never searched for anything other
than maintenance problems,” Penley said. “If I find any evidence, however, of drugs or theft, I report it immediately to
Mrs. Nicholls.” Penley is confident that a relationship of good faith exists between the employees and the students and is
proud that there have never been any complaints against the maintenance work he has performed. “I am here to see
that the janitors do their job and the students do theirs. This is my job.”

Complaints continue to be registered, however, and Mrs. Peter Nicholls, Director of Student Housing, has handled most of the accusations
which are aimed at the campus employees. The contention of some students is that a few of the janitors take
advantage of their ready access to rooms and often “case the joint” or barge in at any time under the
pretext of performing some maintenance service. The administration policy is based on the provisions in the Code of Responsibility, and
from its past record an authorized search can at most be labeled apathetic. The problem obviously rests on the random
indiscretion of a campus janitor. Cecil Burney, President of the Residence Hall Council, is considering a proposal to prohibit employees
from entering locked doors.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.

GALLEY FISH CAMP - TAPROOM
Wherrena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

MAKE YOUR FIRST STOP
C. W. STOWE'S ESSO
For All Your Motoring Needs
“We Know Your Car Like A Book”
Main & South Streets
Phone 892-9304

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI
OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY

The Hub

EUROPE $239.00
June 12-Sept 8
NYC/Amst/NYC
VERY FEW SEATS Remaining
For information Call 919-933-5271 or write:
Betty Saunders
408 Connors
Chapel Hill, N. C.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

Next Sunday is her day! A thoughtful way to thank Mom for all the wonderful things she does is with
an Ambassador Mother's Day card that’s as special as she is. Come see our complete collection . . . and
let an Ambassador card be your personal envoy of good taste.

THE VILLAGE STORE
Davidson, N.C.
