Kittens Blessed

With Deep Bench

By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

Although the great majority of Davidson students are quite familiar with "the starting five," quite often a truly important element
of basketball is forgotten.

No team can really possess great potential without an adequate bench. Perhaps this is why Coach Neill McGeachy and Coach
Terry Holland have called this year’s freshman team the best ever.

Head freshman Coach McGeachy has stated he has been more than pleased with Davidson's "unsung heroes" as he refers to
his bench. He is certain they are going to play a major role in the success of this year’s Wildkittens.

The Kittens' "unsung heroes" are led this year by such players as Gordon Glasgow, Peyton Prospere, Bob Vander Griend, and
Bob Bowman. "I have really been impressed with the play of these men," McGeachy has commented.

Glasgow, at 6-4, is one of the tallest members of this year’s team. "We don't really have a big man,
so we have to count on rebounds from everyone." Glasgow has been quite an effective rebounder for the Kittens. And
although he doesn't shoot much, he can be very effective from the floor.

Vander Griend at 6-8, the tallest man on the squad, is also being counted on heavily for defense and rebounds.

Bowman and Prospere, a pair of guards, have also really impressed McGeachy with their hustle and play. "Bowman looked really
great during preseason and I'm also quite impressed by Prospere," McGeachy commented.

The Kittens opened their season last Saturday, and sure enough bench support helped the team tremendously, as they defeated previously
unbeaten (3-0) Montreat-Anderson Junior College, 85-78. Glasgow played eleven minutes and had eight rebounds.

Everyone else also had a hand in the victory: Vander Griend had to start in the place of T. J.
Betorak, out with a torn muscle in his thigh. And Prospere played most of the game when some of the
starters got in foul trouble.

"I really was impressed with the play of our substitutes in last week's game," said McGeachy. "Of course our starters
also did a good job. You must consider this was their sixth game." Steve Gadaire was singled out as having
an exceptional performance.

"I believe we still have two important things to improve, our pressure defense and our man-to-man defense. Montreat forced us
to go to a zone defense to stop them," he commented.

The freshmen play their next two games here in the Davidson gym. Before the Mercer game tomorrow, they face Evans,
and next Tuesday they tangle with Gaston, preceding the Richmond game.

IN A PINCH

Ron Stelzer tries to take a rebound away from two ECU defenders.

EASY BASKET

Paul Wegner drives for a layup against the East Carolina freshmen.

Cats Sweep Opener

By ERNIE SHIPE
Sports Editor

If you made it a habit to leave ball games early last year or never bothered to see the freshmen
play, you wouldn't recognize the new look in Davidson basketball. A new group of faces played like the ones you
watched last season defeating East Carolina, 77-61, in Wednesday's season opener.

The victory meant a giant step in Davidson's quest for their fourth consecutive conference championship.

East Carolina had been tabbed by several experts as the most likely candidate to dethrone the Wildcats. Even with Bryan
Adrian and Eric Mirkin sidelined with injuries, the 'Cats looked like last season's edition in their win.

Eric Mirkin may find it even harder to break back into the line-up as his replacement, Joe Sutter, led all
scorers with 25 points. The 6-7 sophomore hit six of 17 shots from the field and was good on 13
of 14 free throws.

From there on out the scoring was balanced. Ron Stelzer and Steve Kirley each added 12 points while John Pecorak
tossed in 11. Jan Postma and Billy Pierce rounded out the scoring with nine and eight respectively.

East Carolina was paced by Al Faber, who tallied 18 and Jim Fairley with 12. The loss dropped the Pirates'
record to 1-2.

Davidson was in command from the outset of the contest, building their lead to 15 points with four minutes remaining
in the half only to see the Pirates trim it to 41-30 at the buzzer.

The only time East Carolina came close in the second half was at 6:32 when they pulled within ten points.
However, a fifteen-foot jumper by Sutter and a layup by Postma in a thirty-second span was enough to pad the
margin.

Both teams shot well from the floor as the 'Cats hit on 48 percent of their shots while the Pirates
managed a hot 51 percent.

The difference in the ball game came at the foul line. Davidson connected on 35 of their 41 charity tosses
while East Carolina only made nine of 15.

Tastee-Freez of Cornelius
10-9 P.M.

BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET
“It’s Incomparable”

Sandwiches — Pizza
Sundaes

50 FLAVOR SHAKES

Your Christmas Shopping with us -

the groovy clothes,

Gift Wrapped Free.

OPEN NIGHTS UNTIL CHRISTMAS
except Saturdays
