0 The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

PAGE TWO JANUARY 9, 1970

Green Grow The Rushes

Caught up in the Rush? Why not take a moment out from your trips to the smile factories, lay down
the biased literature you have received, and in your detachment consider the ludicrous spectacle taking place before your eyes. What
you will find, if you are American by nature, is two opposing factions, but it is not quite as clearly
defined as the effete snobs versus the silent majority dichotomy. In fact, the sides are not exactly clarified, with a
number of disenchanted people in both factions.

When the fraternity man says, “There is a great sense of unity in this house,” he is most likely lying.
In turn, when the independent tries to attach labels to the fraternities, he speaks from a distorted and unknowing viewpoint,
and this ignorance and bias leads to an equally untrue conclusion.

Numerous fraternity men are unhappy with the present system, saying “fraternities probably are not the best thing for Davidson,” but
unable to come up with a viable alternative. The Commission on Social Patterns, designed to come to some agreement on
the best system of social life for Davidson, couldn’t even reach agreement on the fraternity issue. With little prospect for
a Trustee edict in this area, it would be a good idea for the Interfraternity Council to join forces with
a body of independents in order to determine a better system.

The dialogue begun last year over the fraternity issue was excellent, but it faded too quickly, and the fraternities, with
a few notable exceptions, settled down once again into comfortable slumber. And it seems clear that the same issue is
going to produce much the same result again this year. It is time for someone to initiate the action.

It won't be accomplished by dirty-rush booklets distributed by the independents. It won’t be accomplished by the shallow concern cleverly
painted on the faces of rush-minded fraternity men. It hasn’t, and probably won't be, effected by the arbitrary decision of
a fraternity to disaffiliate with national offices.

On the other hand, the independent marches on in his anti-Greek fervor, but usually laboring under selfish motivation, disguised as
genuine concern. This cold war of social systems can go on endlessly. But it doesn’t have to do so. There
is some solution, and it can begin on an individual basis. Arbitration doesn’t hold much support in a day when
it has been so often proved ineffective, but it can work in this case.

It takes enough concern on the part of the individual to try to understand the position of the other side,
examining the problem from that side, and seeking a mutually suitable system of satisfaction. Then, on a larger scale prompted
by individual concern, a group of students, fraternity men and independents, can weigh the pros and cons of the present
system during this period of rush. Then when excitement and disappointment have waned next week, all look for it. And
there’s no time better than now.

PPC: Here They Come Again!

Gush Week

By ROBERT S. PYEATT

Your columnist feels qualified to write about Gush Week, since he has survived it for three previous years, the first
year sniffing around fraternity basements and furnace rooms, the second pushing a gluey smile and a limpid handshake through a
room full of clichés, and the third washing crystal and mixing punch in a deserted kitchen. From this perspective, Gush
Week appears in all glory: it is surely in the same category as the old traditions of apple pie, motherhood,
raccoon coats, and white powdered wigs. Atavistic and undaunted, let us Gush on.

One of the more revealing things about Gush is the language it inspires. Herewith follows a selection from the columnist’s
clouded memory:

“Good (ca. 1967) perspective, Gush dubious (guy). Likes to go to Hattie’s.”

“I just don’t think I could ever call this guy my brother.”

“When you get a bid from this fraternity, that means you are 100 percent acceptable to everybody down here.”

“John, I’m Joe Clodd. Glad to have you down to the house.”

“I’ve got a ball for his (posterior).”

“Have you gotten to meet all the brothers?”

“This house has a lot of diversity yet we also have unity.”

“We'd really like to see you down here Monday night.”

“We normally drift along with the status of the guys, but I'd also like to see as many of you
as possible back down here Monday night.”

“You’re evaluating us, and we’re evaluating you.”

“I can't stand this person (guy).”

“Put the sweet words on him.”

However, contrary to rumor, it is not true that IFC has hired Spiro Agnew to script Gush Week dialogues.

This week comes as a climax to a long period of hail-fellow-well-met, strategic handshaking, meeting hall counselors and freshman halls,
athletes, slick guys, flies, et al. Rush meetings, plans, charts with faces x’ed and blackballs drawn on noses; and don’t
leave that out where any freshman might see it.

For the fraternities, it is the continual drive for status, to establish themselves as one of the good houses, that
prevents them from letting everybody in. Nobody wants it said that some cloddy unattractive type is his fraternity brother. All
the fraternities could tolerate some guys that they refuse to give bids to, but they won't because that would diminish
their prestige, and prestige is the name of the game in fraternity circles.

And freshmen need to get in for the same reason, and it is important to them.

Sikes Hits College’s Role In Drugs Case

To the Editor:

I write this letter in concern to the attitude of Davidson College toward drugs on campus. During exams a student
was indicted and convicted by the Regulations Court for selling drugs. He was sentenced to be suspended for two years
and state authorities were notified. This case shows a need for a serious look at the attitudes of the administration
and faculty toward drugs and admitted illegal acts on campus.

First, there is the issue of privacy: do the accused and the witnesses have the right to anonymity? It seems
indicated by the fact that in the official transcript all names are deleted. Those involved in the trial and wishes
to read the 150 pages of testimony cannot take them from the Dean's Office—hardly a conducive place to read.

Second, what is the relation between the college, state, and federal authorities? In a case such as this one, which
involves the laws of all three, who has jurisdiction? What aid can the college give to federal and state officials,
and vice versa?

Third, what attitude should the college assume toward the townspeople—families of faculty, administration, and staff, and others who use drugs?
Is the purpose of the school to play the part of a great moral leader and say that all users
of drugs should be removed from campus because they might influence others to use drugs? It takes much gall on
the part of the administration to play the part of a great moral standard bearer.

The school should be a place where different ideas can be expressed and tested. As long as students pay their
bills and do no physical harm to the school, they should be left alone. (A notable exception to this would
be academic regulations). The actions of the Regulations Court for undertaking such measures and the administration for letting such actions
continue are putting Davidson College in a competing category with Bob Jones University.

Chris Sikes '72

Haynes Presents Option

To the Editor:the need to try to explain years with a group of guys of an opportunity here. The trial
of December 11-12 has, in any as well as of those unconnected with part of the school, to play. It's
a tremendous feeling, our youthful ideals to older who are like brothers to us. This idea has been denied this
right since the college. As the Code of Responsibility says, "either the government or to realize fully the beauty of
generations and understand the way know exists." I spent my term at the University of Kentucky, where I completed a
full semester's worth of credit at a fraction of the cost of Davidson College.

Second, just how much authority does the regulations court have? Does it have the power to offer immunity to witnesses
who, by testifying against the accused, incriminate themselves? ("Have you ever bought drugs from the accused?" is the sort of
question which might cause acute embarrassment to a witness.) Can the court, at will, shut off the tape recorder which
provides the official transcript, as happened during this trial?

The Code is unique in that it does not limit responsibility to any group of the community. Do both town
and gown have a right to protection? Finally, there is the central problem of drug use. Considering the current mood
of youth, some drug traffic at Davidson may be inevitable. What is a realistic attitude for the college to take
toward drug abuse? Has the college faced up to the problem? Most importantly, how should the college meet the problem?

This particular drug case was carried out in a gestapo-like style. The conviction was delivered at 2:30 in the morning
of the day exams ended. The convicted's work for the fall term might have been wasted. Only six copies of
the transcript exist, quite inappropriate when one considers that they must be available to any student who needs them.

It's with a sigh of relief that we realize that we can finally get away from it all after the
first ten weeks of our freshman year. We can finally get away from those guys who disagree with us or
those guys that are hard to get to know. Not only that, but we can grow for the next three
or four years without the emotional strain of having to confront females every day, no longer having to sweat finding
some great guy to watch the tube with and eat with. Where else can a man find the security of
a country club within a country club?

When I first approached Dr. Ostwalt and H. Edmunds White last spring, they were receptive to the idea. I was
able to enroll at the University of Kentucky for one semester under the heading of "transient student" without actually transferring
from Davidson, a program available at most large universities. Ever since coming to Davidson as a freshman, I have had
serious regrets about coming to such an isolated all-men's school. I now know exactly what a large school involves and
will spend the remainder of my time at Davidson not looking over my shoulder and wondering what if I had
chosen a larger school. My feelings on the two different situations aren’t really the point of this letter, but the
administration is open to individual changes in the curriculum, and if your scheduling permits, I strongly recommend anyone to take
advantage of the idea, if for nothing more than the experience of a complete change of pace.

Doug Haynes '71
Davidson College

---

To the Editor:

I wish to protest over the procedures used and the verdict delivered in the recent Regulations Court trial of a
junior on charges of selling drugs. The procedures were in some cases unfair, and the evidence did not warrant the
verdict.

Procedurally, the court dwelt on hearsay, with only one witness, the fifth, giving any substantive testimony. Even this fifth witness,
however, warned that his evidence was not conclusive, and that no policeman would send a case to court on only
such evidence. And on the possible exchange about which witnesses testified, no second person ever backed up what a witness
had said. And never were there any specific charges of when and where an alleged sale took place, or of
what was sold. In short, the Regulations Court tried a student for being a "pusher," but not for any specific
instance of selling was there evidence beyond reasonable doubt. It is similar to trying someone for being a murderer, producing
evidence that he probably killed several people, and very likely one in particular, but never conclusively proving any specific case.

But a sense of justice demands that one try specific acts, specific violations of the law, and not reputation and
possibilities. The court was also caught up in pettiness and in points irrelevant to the case. It questioned witnesses long
and hard about the prevalence of drugs on campus, a point quite irrelevant to whether the defendant sold drugs. Or
witness this exchange between a court member and the sixth witness (transcript, p. 89):

W-6: "Well, that’s pretty common knowledge! I think if X knew it, just about anyone would."
CM: "I’m going to tell him you said that."
W-6: "Well, you do that."

This points up two serious defects in the judicial system. First, the court must act as prosecutor. With no one
present who has the case coherently organized and who can question witnesses to obtain the information needed, the duty falls
to the court; in the performing of it, they cannot help but become prejudiced. If one doubts this, let him
read the transcript and note the emotion and heatedness of some exchanges. In addition, a court chairman, who by his
election is likely to be the most influential member of the court, has already seen the evidence before the trial
and has discussed it and has at least decided that it is sufficient to warrant a trial. Then he must
lead the court in the questioning, rule on objections, and in general deal with a defendant who is likely to
be quite hostile and who is likely to take the hostility out on the chairman. Accordingly, the most influential member
of the court is the most likely to be prejudiced.

Missing is the division of prosecutor and jury. This is an important separation because the court doesn’t act as defense
adviser, just prosecutor. Also missing is the judge and jury separation, important because the judge may become quite alienated from
one side or the other during the course of the trial. The jury may be dismissed from the room, and
at a minimum is not a party to or arbiter of disputes during the trial.

There were other problems also. Threat of state intervention prejudiced the case, and the concern of court members to prevent
such intervention was evident in the transcript. Also, the court offered to witnesses a rather questionable immunity in return for
self-incriminating testimony. Obviously, the court would not go back on its own promise not to prosecute, but a later court
might reverse policy. Or, a change in state policy might mean court members would be subpoenaed to testify that witnesses
admitted taking drugs.

Finally, the court's assumption that it could be above "technicalities" while indulging in the already noted pettiness and irrelevancies was
almost hypocritical. As to the technicalities, what the defense adviser said handles the subject (transcript, p. 66):

"Perhaps the judicial system of this country is technical, but the reason that it is technical is to protect people
who may perhaps be innocent, and I don't think that these technicalities would exist if there were no reason for
it."

Later a court member replied, "... this is not a court of justice; this is not an adversary proceeding." (transcript,
p. 71)

What it adds up to is that the recent trial was not fair, the evidence was not sufficient for the
verdict, and the judicial system as now constituted would have to have angels for court members to provide a fair
trial.

Franklin Anderson '70
Davidson College
