STUDENT HELPS * REFORM DRAFT LAWS
FAGG HAPPY ° d WITH NEW POST
Aauvuinsuotti {jee Page: Three
LIX (Staff Photos by’ Lyle)

STONE MAIDEN
Medusa’s spell is broken.

WDAV-AM To Broadcast Spring Term, Says Dobbs.
By NEIL COGHILL
News Editor

WDAV, Davidson's AM radio station, expects to begin broadcasting in the spring term, according to Ed Dobbs, station manager. Dobbs, who pioneered the project in his freshman year, stated, “If everything runs according to schedule, and if we encounter no financial or technical difficulties, we ought to be ready to go by the beginning of the spring term.” Dobbs stressed, however, that because of the immensity of the project and its technical complexity, “a lot could go wrong.” WDAV received renewed impetus from a $500 donation from the James F. Daniel Foundation in South Carolina.

WDAV will be an AM station rather than an FM as formerly intended. The reasons for the change, Dobbs said, were a “lack of funds and a lack of technical student help needed to get up and maintain an FM station.” The programming will be “block broadcasting,” a little of everything in blocks of about three hours. Dobbs emphasized that the programming will depend entirely on what the students want to hear; the station will be very receptive to ideas. A publication will be sent out each month for the listener’s convenience.

Much of the early broadcasting will be pre-recorded, Dobbs said. The plan is to start out with time broadcasting from twelve to twelve seven days a week. The broadcast will include commercials by local businesses, and Dobbs anticipates advertising from Charlotte businesses once the station is established. WDAV will operate on a “carrier current system.” Cables will be laid underground and will transmit the broadcast. It will be possible to pick up on a transistor radio inside or outside of a building.

Dobbs felt that the faculty and administration have been cooperative but skeptical about the station. He explained that the students working on the project, excluding disc jockeys, have been concentrating on the technical rather than business aspects so far. He said, however, that they plan to wage a massive public relations campaign preceding the first broadcast. “Most people don't realize that this is an immense project,” Dobbs said. “It’s not like appointing a committee or something. Once it gets under way, it will be one of the biggest things that has happened to Davidson College in a long time.

“A number of people such as Buck Lawrimore (Director of the News Bureau), Skip Smoak, and Dave Stimpson have done an extraordinary amount of work. We used a professional planner, Richard Crompton of Pennsylvania, to help us set it up.” The station sent its plans to Crompton, who works with numerous radio stations, and he sent them back suggesting the best possible setup. Several other campuses in the area already have stations, including N.C. State, St. Andrews, and Wake Forest. WDAV hopes to eventually emulate Wake Forest's AM-FM station. Hopefully, Dobbs said, the studio will be in the Union broadcast booth, presently the Interfraternity Council office. The adjoining old annual room will serve as an office.

Newman Receives Honor

Senior Stagg Newman has been named a Woodrow Wilson Designate for 1970-71. Two other students have been awarded honorable mention. Newman is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and is currently captain of the cross country team. He is the chairman of the College Regulations Court and is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. During 1968-69 he coordinated a course entitled “Perspectives on Poverty” for the Freer University.

Winning honorable mention are Joe Hughes, an economics major from Hillsborough, N.C.; and Joe Jones, a linguistics major from Wilkesboro, N.C. The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation named 1,153 finalists and honorable mentions from 12,000 outstanding graduating seniors nominated by more than 800 colleges in the US and Canada as their “most promising” graduates planning careers as college teachers. Winners' names will be sent to all graduate school deans in both countries with a recommendation that the schools provide winners with graduate fellowships. The foundation will provide 150 Woodrow Wilson fellowships for those who fail to receive funds from the schools of their choice.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1970
NUMBER EIGHTEEN

Queens Protest Compels Curfew Change
By JOE SMITH
Associate Editor

A unanimous vote of the student body has freed the Queens girl of one of the restrictions which has been characteristic of women's colleges, and Southern women’s colleges in particular, from their inception: the infamous “hours” regulations are no longer in full effect. The attention which has been given to the curfew change, particularly the student demonstration which is associated with it, tends to obscure the fact that it is the most recent of a series of changes at Queens which reflect a new attitude of involvement by its students.

“The hours change is a result of a recommendation by the Residence Student Council,” said Dean of Students Anne Gebhardt. “From there, it was taken to the Student Legislature, where it was approved and sent to the College Advisory Committee. The Advisory Committee, which consists of President Smilie, Dean (of the College) Babb, and myself, also approved the recommendation, with the provision that first-semester freshmen should abide by the standard curfew regulations.”

The amended proposal was returned to the RSC and Student Legislature,” continued Dean Gebhardt, “where the addition was accepted. The proposal was then voted on by the student body, and was passed.” The change will go into effect when classes are resumed after spring break.

The Dean went on to outline the proposal itself. “What we have established is a system of self-regulated hours for students twenty years old or older, and any other student, except first-semester freshmen, who has parental permission,” she said. “Those who do not qualify under the new rule will be subject to the regulations already in effect.”

The result of a lack of positive response to the student proposal, according to Charlotte “Charley” Carlock, past President of the Queens SGA and leader of the walkout. “I talked to her (Dean Gebhardt) a week before the walkout and the afternoon which preceded it,” said Miss Carlock. “She never gave a definite statement about a final decision on hours reform. We felt that the tentative air taken by the Administration was not appropriate, they had all the information necessary to make a decision. We felt that we could trust the Administration,” Miss Carlock continued, “But at the same time we felt that we were being led along. It got to a point where an action of some kind was necessary to move things along.”

“The Administration accepted the hours change as a step necessary in keeping in tune with the times,” Dean Gebhardt said. “Students today are much more independent and mature than they have been in the past; the rules changes are merely a reflection of this. With the increased responsibility which our students have taken in academic affairs, it is only right that new responsibility be given them in social affairs as well. In loco parentis is no longer a maxim at Queens.”

The Dean was not as sanguine about the changing role of students in college affairs with regard to the midnight walkout involving approximately half the student body which preceded the Advisory Council's approval of the hours. She maintains that the demonstration was unnecessary, and that it could have been harmful to the student cause. “The timing of the walkout was unfortunate,” said Dean Gebhardt, “Prior to its occurrence, we had told student leaders that we were going to meet on the question during the following week. I felt that the demonstration might hinder approval of their proposal, but, as it turned out, that was not the case. The demonstration is evidence that communication between students and Administration is not as good as it should be,” she continued. “Students are impatient; they are unwilling to let things take their course when it appears that the process will take more time than they would like. They fail to understand that the Administration has a great number of problems to deal with, that we have problems too. There is a certain amount of selfishness involved in student demands, in that they think only of what they want and not of the far-reaching effects which their demands may have.”

Student impatience with regard to the hours change was the result of a lack of positive response to the student proposal, according to Charlotte “Charley” Carlock, past President of the Queens SGA and leader of the walkout. “I talked to her (Dean Gebhardt) a week before the walkout and the afternoon which preceded it,” said Miss Carlock. “She never gave a definite statement about a final decision on hours reform. We felt that the tentative air taken by the Administration was not appropriate, they had all the information necessary to make a decision. We felt that we could trust the Administration,” Miss Carlock continued, “But at the same time we felt that we were being led along. It got to a point where an action of some kind was necessary to move things along.”

By RUSS MERRITT
Associate Editor

The Black Student Coalition at Davidson has secured from the college the use of the first floor of Lingle Manor to set up an Afro-American Black Culture Center, according to college officials.

Student Life Committee May Vote Today On 24-Hour Open Dorms

The Student Life Committee (SLC) continued its hearings on the joint SGA Senate-Hall Association bid for 24-hour open dorms Wednesday morning. They are expected to take a final vote on the measure at a special meeting this afternoon. In Wednesday's closed session, the committee questioned ex-RHA President Tom Opie and currentRHA President Cecil Burney on the proposal which would amend the RHA Manual of Order so that dorm residents could vote themselves 24-hour open dorms. Part of the SLC presentation to the Spencer Commission was an excerpt from their report on Coeducation:

“As for the sexual conduct of students on a coeducational campus, the Commission is aware that probably it will be useless to attempt to apply old standards to control sexual behavior. In all likelihood, the students will engage in a long war of attrition, to the detriment of everyone, as they press for freedom in line with contemporary morality. Perhaps there is a paradox here, that while the social lives of the students are the College’s responsibility to foster, the sexual lives of the students are their own responsibility. Some few students are going to live together for most, if not for all, of each day and night. Some students, but by no means all, Davidson will have to provide sufficient alternatives in dormitories and the like to ensure that no one way of life is forced upon everyone. It would seem to be the responsibility of the college these days to provide alternatives and not one way for all. It would seem also most beneficial, the Commission believes, to remember that most young men and women, including the academically talented, are decent and becoming.”

Members of the SLC are Richard C. Burts Jr., W. B. Patterson, R. D. Kaylor, Hansford Epes, A. A. Wolf, W. G. Workman, R. L. Avinger, and students Dick Allison, Ran Coble, and Joe Kilpatrick.

Regulations Court Announces

On February 19, 1970, the College Regulations Court found a Davidson student guilty of the section in the Code of Responsibility entitled “Misconduct Which Affects the Property, Person or Rights of Others,” specifically entrance into a locked fraternity house over Christmas break. Due to mitigating circumstances, the court moved that the defendant be verbally reprimanded and no further action be taken. However, the court would like to caution members of the college community about the potential seriousness of entering locked buildings. Furthermore, it has been brought to the attention of the Chairman of the Court that the intramural fields and cross-country course are being damaged by the riding of motorcycles over them. Therefore, in the future, the riding of motorcycles over these areas will be considered a violation of the above-mentioned section of the Code.

“I think that it is interesting that, even though they knew that the walkout was going to occur, neither President Smilie nor Dean Gebhardt indicated that it would not be necessary. They did not inform us that a decision would be made soon.” Miss Carlock concurred with Dean Gebhardt that a lack of communication among students, faculty, and administration exists, although her assessment dealt more with the institutional framework than the Dean's. “Although we do have some contact on this subject through the faculty Student Life Committee and its student counterpart, the faculty has never taken a stand on issues. We requested that they take a position because campus social issues have never been addressed.”

Lingle Manor To Be Used For Black Culture Center

To lose the unkempt look, Lingle Manor will be used for a Black Culture Center. Members of the coalition explained, “The need for such a center is fairly obvious from our standpoint.” Jim Parks, chief-of-staff for the coalition, explained recently, “It will bring the black experience more closely to the blacks at Davidson, and give us a place together for the brothers to interact.” The center will consist of four rooms and a hallway. Where the PRAM office once was, the coalition plans to make a reception room and an office for the organization. Across the hall will be a recreation, multi-purpose room used for meetings, parties, etc. In the back is a kitchen. The main culture section, including artifacts, drawings, etc., will be in the entering hallway. According to Parks, the center will have a stereo, card tables, and a library as well as being furnished with sofas, chairs, etc. Davidson's administration is handling all the details. The college has promised the coalition 3000 dollars for renovating and furnishing the center and will give more to the coalition later to strengthen its budget, according to Parks. The coalition will determine what goes into the center and how the budget will be spent. Upon its completion, the operations of the center will be handled solely by the black coalition. Meetings will be closed to the public, as well as the business of the coalition. The culture gallery displays, however, will be open to the public. “Hopefully the center will help the social life of the black student at Davidson,” Parks said. “Davidson’s social problem is compounded for the black, and so something like this center is necessary.” Also, it is the hope of the coalition that the center will aid in recruiting blacks to Davidson. Most of the present arrangements for the center are being made by Lester Strong, chairman of the coalition, and Mrs. Scottie Nichols, director of student housing.

Although they disagreed on particulars with regard to the change in curfew, Dean Gebhardt and Miss Carlock maintained that the reform is only the most recent of a series which have occurred during the last several years. Dean Gebhardt noted that changes in the College's drinking rule and the acceptance of student-owned cars on campus are two changes which have taken place over the last three years, the former being a gradual change. The Dean went on to point out that, for the last two years, Queens students have had a greater voice in the college as a result of the establishment of student committees on campus affairs which coordinate their considerations with those of faculty.

Appeal Overturns Honor Conviction

By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

The Davidson College Court of Appeals Tuesday night overturned the conviction of a student who had been found guilty of cheating on a biology review by the Honor Court. The student is the same person who had previously been convicted on a charge of selling hallucinatory drugs, but his sentence for that charge had also been revoked by the Court of Appeals earlier in the term. The Honor Court conviction had caused protest from a number of students. A letter endorsed by the SGA Senate was circulated among the college community which charged that the honor court trial had been based on “insufficient evidence” and bore “too many marks of a prejudiced and non-objective hearing.” Sophomore Mark Meza, one of the sponsors of the letter, said that he was pleased with the Court of Appeals’ reversal, but said that there is still a need to review the college judicial system. He said that the proceedings have been “indicative of a system set up with the best of intentions... but (which has) taken more power than it actually deserves.” Meza charged that the Honor Court had engaged in “moralizing rather than actual judicial review.” Meza stressed that his views represented his own personal opinions and not necessarily those of the other sponsors of the letter, or the student government committee charged with re-evaluating the Code’s judicial system and the student bill of rights. Meza said that he questioned whether this was the best system for getting justice. “The court has overstepped its bounds,” he said. “In the areas of drugs, alcohol, and sex, the courts shouldn’t touch these areas.”

Peterson Cites Election; Three Classes Involved

Two new elections and two repeat elections will be held next Thursday according to SGA Elections Board Chairman Allen Peterson. All three classes will elect members to the Regulations Court. The rising Sophomore class will elect three members, the rising Junior class two members, and the rising Senior class one member. Also to be elected next Thursday will be a defense advisor for the student courts. Included in the elections will be the run-off for editor of the Wildcat Handbook. This election has been delayed due to procedural difficulties. Running are Juniors Tim McCaulay and Reggie Whitley. Junior Lyman Parrigin ran in the first elections but has since withdrawn his candidacy. The election of an editor for the Quips and Cranks is scheduled to be held next Thursday. This has been twice postponed due to a lack of candidates.