**The Davidsonian**

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO APRIL 3, 1970

In Memoriam of David L. Morrow 1951-1970

A Gothic Turn

All of a sudden, Davidson’s government has taken a Gothic turn. How late may the mysterious houses of Patterson Court be occupied these dark and stormy nights? The answer remains hidden deep within the recesses of Chambers’ first floor.

The issue of curfews on the fraternity court has been a live one for years, each year bringing new proposals for changing the present situation. When the IFC and the RHC both decided, in the fall of this year, that the situation had been batted around long enough and proceeded to recommend complete abolition of fraternity court hours.

In light of the importance of student responsibility to those who presently attend this college and its clear manifestation in the Code of Responsibility, this action should have surprised no one. It now appears, however, that the recommendation not only surprised the Administration, but resulted in a severe state of shock to that estate of the realm which has brought with it a total paralysis of the facilities of rational thought. This diagnosis is based on recent statements by members of the Administration which place fraternity hours in “Limbo.” What does this mean? Well, it means that the recommendation has been made and that the rules in question are now in “The Twilight Zone.” Got that?

The reason for this obfuscation is obvious. Confronted with the uncomfortable choice between accepting the proposal, and thus drawing fire from the various groups who oppose the liberalization of campus regulations, or rejecting it, thus mobilizing student opinion, the Administration has created a third option: ignoring the situation entirely, old rules included. The matter is in the “Twilight Zone” and that’s definite.

What Davidson's students are confronted with, then, is not a policy but a non-policy, an antipolicy if you will. Those who are responsible, in the final analysis, for governing their school refuse to take any position on an issue related to student conduct. The course, for students, in the face of this purposeful obstructionism, is clear. The Code of Responsibility states that, save in cases where specific rules are in effect, the purposes of the College are best served by allowing the student to make his own choices on conduct, free from unnecessary restrictions. Since a non-policy can in no way be a specific rule, it must be assumed that the Code takes precedence in this case, and that, this being the case, students are no longer bound by the old regulations. It is our recommendation that students completely disregard all past dictates concerning curfews.

The entire case brings home points valid for all. It should show that men are ruled either by the dictates of conscience or by the specific rules established by their society or both, but never by innocuous non-policies or vague dictates from the “Twilight Zone.” It should also point out that a clear delineation of policy, even though unpopular, is to be much preferred to a hazy skirting of the issues, that disagreement and respect are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Whatever the consequences, it is to be hoped that this type of situation does not recur at Davidson. It does no credit to anyone involved.

The Faculty Side-step

The thoughts that come to mind concerning the recent faculty meeting are on the whole generally unpleasant. First there is the initial disappointment that the faculty did not act on the plan of the RHA that would allow students to establish open dorms on a 24-hour basis. We find the proposal entirely reasonable. The student plan cites moral justification in the Code of Responsibility and in the report of the Commission on Coeducation. THE DAVIDSONIAN supports the RHA plan and it is our hope that the faculty can act to approve the plan before the trustee meeting to be held April 24. A favorable position stated publicly by the faculty would do much to indicate a positive campus attitude to the trustees. The sooner such a stand is taken, the more likely it is that the trustees will realize the value of the RHA plan.

A second disappointment comes from a reading of the proposals, mainly concerning final examinations, made by the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) and adopted by the faculty. It is true that the new rules constitute a substantial liberalizing of past faculty policy toward exams. There is now an official sanction of oral exams, take-home exams, and independent papers and research as valid forms of a final evaluation of a student’s work in a course. However, there is no recognition that such a final evaluation is not necessary as a hard and fast policy. Instead it is stated that the department chairman must submit to the Dean of the Faculty a definite statement of the methods of evaluation to be used in their departments. It is further stated that “all faculty members will turn into the Dean of the Faculty a copy of their final examination in all courses.” This ruling is simply onerous and nefarious.

The issue of self-scheduled exams was also curiously and unfortunately omitted from the proposals. Reportedly the EPC had been told by various members of the Honor Court that such a system would put an unacceptable strain on the Davidson honor system. Not only do we question the validity of such testimony as being in any sense representative of real student situations, but we also seriously question the charge itself. We do not believe Davidson students to be that incapable of self-regulation. It seems that the EPC has just begun its work. The abolishment of the strict requirement of final examination and the institution of self-scheduled exams are two changes that must not be ignored. We hope the faculty does not consider itself sufficiently reformed in the area of final exams.

Patient Too Long

Mr. Bond’s Martin Lecture, while lacking anything of real significance, was nevertheless quite revealing of the character of this youthful leader. It is quite surprising, then, that some students expressed concern after his speech over the bitterness that Mr. Bond displayed in the opening moments of his presentation. Given the fact that he is a Negro and making the safe assumption that he is thinking seriously about the situation of Blacks in America, we find it surprising that he contained his bitterness as well as he did. Mr. Bond, and indeed every Black in the United States today, has a perfect right to feel bitter, extremely bitter, over the inane actions of white Americans over the past two hundred years. So why were some students surprised? We do not know. Did they expect to hear some Uncle Tom spewing back the pap that they have handed him and his ancestors for two hundred years? We do not know. As Mr. Bond pointed out, the speeches he quoted were over a century old and yet were frighteningly contemporary. Blacks have been far too patient in seeking their rights. We should realize that and not make them wait a second longer.

THERE’S A HIGH, FLY BALL GOING DEEP TO RIGHT..... THOR GOES BACK... BACK.... AND HE...... LOSES IT IN THE YELLOW SUN!!!

Thorton Labels Bond A Champion Of Liberalism

To the Editor:

I note from your March 13th issue that Julian Bond will lecture at Davidson on March 31st and April 1st. When a man spends most of his time on the lecture circuit, one naturally wonders what he is “selling.” It has to be an idea, or ideas. It should be a matter of record before he speaks that he keeps funny company. One tries to figure what is up when he is working so assiduously on the universities and the churches. Being a Baptist I hate to admit, that liberals within the Southern Baptist Christian Life Commission have ruthlessly held a “seminar” on Sex Education in Atlanta on March 16-18 at the American Motel. Three invited speakers (and by now they have already spoken so this isn't rumor) are Anson Mount, public affairs manager of PLAYBOY magazine, Joseph Fletcher, the father of the “new Morality” or “situation ethics” and Julian Bond. Of Bond it is written that he is one of the most controversial civil rights agitators, and perhaps no one in this country is loved and cherished by the Left-Liberal crowd more than he. He has championed the civil rights anarchists and the Black Power militants from the beginning. Like the other denominations, the Baptists are beginning to put on their armor against the onslaught of the insidious new left that is infiltrating and trying to take over the seminaries and in time the churches. These three men represent a good example of their strategy and their tactics. Bond is a paid speaker and is not due any “cover up” as to his speaking activities and associates.

E. P. Thornton
Murrells Inlet, S. C.

Hatfield Against The Draft; Calls For Volunteer Army

ED NOTE: The following speech by Senator Hatfield was excerpted from the ‘Congressional Record’ of April 3, 1969.

I have always been somewhat annoyed by people who consistently look disaster in the eye and announce that “something good will come of it in the end.” I generally suspect that such people either do not comprehend the calamity or are callous to tragedy.

So it is with certain misgivings that I assert that something positive may result from our involvement in the senseless and unpopular war in Vietnam. Without the war I doubt that opposition to our system of conscription would have gained the momentum it has, momentum which may eventually lead to the abolition of the draft and the establishment of a volunteer military, the only system that allows the maximum personal liberty and eliminates the major inequities inherent in conscription.

I feel strongly that each man has a moral obligation to serve his country, but he must be granted the freedom to accept his responsibility and the right to determine the form his service shall take. Individual liberty is not a concession that can be withdrawn or that must be paid for by military service. It is the ultimate right in a democracy.

The draft also fails to meet the criterion of fairness, for it is not equally applied. There has been a great deal of resentment because the Selective Service System is not adminis-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

tered uniformly throughout the country, because of the many inequities of the deferment system. But the most basic inequity is the fact that a smaller and smaller minority of our young men is carrying the burden of national defense. Even under today’s crisis conditions, the military services draft only about 350,000 men out of a draft-eligible pool that totals 12 million. We should not tolerate a system that capriciously requisitions two years out of the lives of some youths while allowing the majority their liberty. An all-volunteer force is usually first challenged on the ground that it would never provide armed services with the number of men needed. The evidence indicates otherwise. We are talking about small numbers of men. In peacetime, according to the economist Walter Oi, a volunteer military, with its reduced turnover, should need to recruit only about 333,000 young men into the enlisted ranks each year. Statistically, this comes down to less than 2 percent of the draft-eligible pool—young men between 18 and 26. Even if this pool were limited to men 18 through 20—the ages at which the majority of youths are making career decisions—the military would need to recruit only about 6 percent of the group into the enlisted ranks each year.

The volunteer army forces taxpayers to recognize the true cost of military activity. If they would be unwilling to pay this cost, it must be because the benefits from such activity are less than its cost. In such a case, the activity should be curtailed and not, as under a draft system, merely have its cost concealed. The volunteer army does not increase this real cost of national defense; if anything, because it is more efficient, it reduces that cost. What it does do, however, is make the cost apparent while distributing it more evenly.

A second common criticism of the proposal for volunteer military service is that it would produce an all-black army. (Sometimes the charge is that it would be a poor black army; the fact that the draft system produces a poor army is overlooked. It is the upper-lower class that are drafted in disproportionate numbers. A volunteer army, because of improved pay, status, and conditions, would be much more a middle-class army.) There is little reason to believe that black men would join the military in great disproportion to the number of white young men who would be drawn to this career. In fact, the national advisory commission on the draft stated in its report, “In Pursuit of Equity,” that qualified white and black youths volunteer at rates about equal to their overall proportion in society. (Blacks between 18 and 26 represent about 12 percent of their age group and they enter the service in approximately the same proportion.)

Another charge brought against the voluntary-military proposal is just as fallacious and emotional as the predictions of a black army. This is the argument that a professional military would be composed of “mercenaries”—men who would join the service only for the money and whose loyalty would therefore be questionable. This line of reasoning presupposes that young men would choose military careers solely because they were well-paid. But young people who pick careers as teachers or carpenters certainly don't reach their decisions purely on the basis of economics, and there is no reason to think that those who enlist in the military would be motivated entirely by good pay and improved benefits. John Mitrisn, a former research associate at the Institute for Policy Studies, recently pointed out in an article in Current History: “Monetary gain, and veterans’ benefits are not the only reasons men join the armed forces; if they were there would be almost no true volunteers today. Men join because of patriotism, family tradition, the military’s image of manliness and the chance to travel. These attractions are strong.”

Frankly, I believe that the method of recruiting enlisted men is unrealistic to the possibility of a rise in militarism. Draftees who are only in the service for two years and are at the very bottom of the military power structure, have very little ability to exert a “civilian” influence on the military hierarchy. The danger of military elitism comes primarily from the officers, who are and almost always have been volunteers or “professionals.” We should continue our tradition of drawing officers from widely divergent social, economic, and geographical backgrounds. We should also continue our Congressional selection of the student bodies at our military academy, maintain voluntary R.O.T.C. programs on college campuses, and provide for expanded opportunities for enlisted personnel to attend officer-candidate schools.

The Marburg View
By DICK ANDERSON

The Twain Shall Meet

VIENNA—The dominant impression left by this city is of the colossal buildings of the old Empire, monuments to one of the great motivating forces in European history.

This force is the drive toward German unification, which was for a long time led by the old Austrian state. Since 1866, however, the German people have been permanently divided into two states, the one in the North with its capital at Berlin and the Southern state with its capital at Vienna. This trend was partially reversed by the breakup of the Third Reich since the Second World War. But now that the north German state, sundered for twenty-five years, is again discussing union, as yet not on the official level but among the citizens of the two parts. This discussion has been awakened by the meeting of West German Bundeskanzler Willi Brandt and his East German counterpart Willi Stoph at Erfurt.

The two hardly met to discuss anything so radical as reunification. The subjects of their continuing meetings are a non-aggression pact, legal recognition of the DDR, and regularization of relations between the two states.

Despite the propaganda of right-wing groups in West Germany, all of these topics are steps in the general direction of reunification. It has become obvious that union will not be brought about by force of anyone’s arms, and it is also rather clear that the DDR would not be interested in union until the West Germans are willing to treat with it as an equal.

Far more important at the moment are the attitudes of the superpowers and of the various allies in the two blocs towards union. German federalists must face the fact that nobody outside Germany really wants to see the two halves come together. Especially in Eastern Europe, there is still fear of the Germans coupled with the memory of more than 30 million casualties in the Second World War. Western nations are already hard-pressed to keep up with the powerful West German economy. None of them desire to see East German industrial potential added to that of the West, and the same is true of the Eastern bloc in relation to East Germany.

However, in the course of the next decade, all of these obstacles are likely to lose force. Russian influence in East Germany is even more dependent on the Soviet troops there than is Western influence on the NATO troops in the Western half. But the Russians are going to be needing most of those troops in Asia to defend their long border with China. Moreover, the East Germans dislike being occupied, even by “allies,” as much as any other country, and as the fear of attack from the West recedes, they will pressure the Soviets to withdraw their troops.

East Germany’s own “economic miracle,” based on the same qualities which made for West Germany’s success, has already made them the Eastern bloc’s second economic power. Indeed, in many fields, the USSR is becoming merely a supplier of raw materials to more efficient East German factories; dependency of the Warsaw Pact countries on East German industry will increase with the accelerating growth of the East German economy, which may rise as high as fifth in the world during the next 30 years, according to projections made by Herman Kahn.

Partly from this economic dominance and partly due to other factors, there has been an increasing tendency for East Germany to assume the mantle of political leadership in the East. The Russian desire to avoid further widening of the breach between themselves and some of the more nationalistic Eastern European countries has led them to look for a conservative to represent them in Eastern councils: the obvious choice has been East Germany's Walter Ulbricht.

Ulbricht still fears West Germany, in my opinion largely because of East Germany’s inferior position. His part of the nation is far smaller, has had less success economically, and has achieved much less international recognition as an independent actor in world affairs. The combination of the new “Wirtschaftswunder” and increasing independence from the Soviets will change this inferiority. These factors are unlikely to change Ulbricht’s psychological approach to West Germany, for he is an old man and inflexible. But old men die, and the leaders who eventually succeed him may feel more secure in their relations with West Germany, assuming that much antipathy of the present leadership toward the West is in fact based on such feelings. This process will be helped along by decreasing West German bellicosity toward the East.

In short, at some time in the reasonably near future, the stage will be set for German reunification to depend almost exclusively on the wishes of the German governments. The question will then be one of desire, opportunity, and method. Still, it is not at all clear that the desires of the populace have significant effects on the policies of the East German rulers. And the stumbling block of Communist-capitalist rivalry stands in the way. There is no reason why the Eastern leaders should have to make immediate changes in their system to unite with the West, nor vice versa. A plausible method would be to adopt a confederal approach, with a national capital in Berlin, regional capitals in Bonn and Pankow, and each side continuing under the system it presently has.

Confederations are inefficient; pressure for a tighter union could arise purely from that circumstance. Once the first step of confederation is taken, further steps become easier. Is this column only pure speculation? Maybe, perhaps even probably. There are lots of objections to such a theory. One of them is West Germany’s relationship to the Common Market. Were the Six to become a closer union, then the whole question of German unification would be swallowed up in that of all Europe. Almost any sort of sudden cooling in East-West relations could severely hinder this program, perhaps even destroy its chances. Evolution of the nation-state system could make the entire question meaningless. If the Chinese either are quickly defeated or for other reasons let up on the Russians, there would be less reason for the latter to relax their hold on East Germany. Nonetheless, the scenario outlined in this column is a possible path towards a solution of the problem of the German division.