Page Two October 2, 1970

The Davidsonian:

AN EXCLUSIVE FORMAT

SLC Report Suggests Eating Clubs

AN ANALYSIS By TOM VERNON
Associate Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. released Monday recommendations of the Student Life Committee (SLC) which call for a major
revamping of campus social life. Spencer is forwarding the recommendations with his endorsement to the board of trustees for action
at their Oct. 16 meeting.

The recommendations call for “transforming the present fraternity system into a system of eating clubs, nonexclusive in nature, which would
serve as the basic social units for students after the freshman year.” The first change, if the recommendations are passed,
would eliminate rush this year through random assignment of the Class of 1974. Present freshmen would be allowed to vote
in the elections for next year’s officers.

The SLC based its report on two arguments. First, that present day campus social life is inadequate and that meaningful
“not merely superficial” changes are needed. Second, that the present fraternity system operates on the basis of exclusion, thereby shutting
out a significant number of students from a full social life. The SLC agreed that an “adequate social system should
not be based upon this principle” and they were backed by three other groups in as many years: the Blue
Sky Subcommittee on Student Life, the Social Patterns Study Commission, and the Academy for Educational Development.

The SLC also outlined specific changes for the next three years, allowing for the same random assignment procedures ending in
the 1973-74 academic year with all houses having been transformed into eating clubs with random assignment as the only basis
for membership.

In his speech Monday, Spencer not only mentioned this system, but also gave equal play to the idea of self-selection
as a basis of membership to the 12 houses. The SLC outlined three additional needs: Any new system should bring
the social and academic aspects of the college into a better partnership, for example, increasing faculty-student contacts outside the classroom.
The quality of life in the residence halls needs substantial upgrading—as far as physical plant and as far as its
social impact is concerned. There is a need for increased campus-wide social activities and for entertaining visitors, the SLC said.

Another feature of the SLC plan is the incorporation of faculty fellows (perhaps up to six) who “would be encouraged
to dine in the house fairly regularly,” serving also as faculty advisors to the house officers. The plan allows those
who do not wish to random assignment to continue eating in the college union.

AN ANALYSIS By JOE SMITH
Associate Editor

Although college president Samuel R. Spencer's Monday statement on Davidson's social system directly affects their existence, the national fraternities here
are not of one mind on the reforms which have been hinted at. This conclusion is drawn from interviews with
leaders of the campus’ social fraternities, whose attitudes on the president's speech ranged from strong approval to serious doubt.

“I thought it was an excellent speech,” said John Bruner, president of the Interfraternity Council (IFC). “The president did a
fine job of outlining the good and short points of the fraternity system. If we can retain the good points
while removing the bad, that will be fine. A number of details need to be worked out before the plan
can go into effect,” Bruner continued. “The method of membership allotment, whether at random, by self-selection, or some other method,
is one example. The end of national fraternities will also bring problems especially with regard to house furnishings, but these
are minor points.”

Bruner went on to say that the presidents and IFC representatives of Davidson's 12 national fraternities will meet with Spencer
at the first of next week to discuss the problems involved in a new system. The majority of officers questioned
agreed with Bruner that the speech was “in the right spirit.” Teddy Ravenel, Sigma Alpha Epsilon president, commented that, “I
was impressed by the reasonable, rational approach of the

Davidsonian Staff:

Associate Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
JOHN McLEAN
RUSS MERRITT
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH
TOM VERNON

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
DON PARMAN

Sports Editor:
ERNIE SHIPE

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
SCOTT DAVIDSON

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Assistant Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS
DARYL WILLIAMS

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
BOB STRAND

Contributors this week:
Alex Hoon, Jeff Allender, Robert Touchton, Andy Strawcutter, John Fine, Joe Earle, Howard Boyd, Windy March, Hal Canter, and Dave
Tierney.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. Yearly Subscription rate: $7.00.speech.
I was afraid that it would be an attack on the fraternity, but it was more like an open forum."
All of the officers agreed that the speech failed to provide any details on which discussion could be based. This
criticism spanned the spectrum from Steve Engstrom of the Beta Theta Pi, who feels that Spencer should have taken more
definite action, to Kappa Alpha Robert Truitt, who maintains that sweeping reform may do more harm than good. All seemed
to be waiting for a more definite proposal to be forwarded. Fraternity presidents were united in disapproval of the random
selection proposal, saying that it would create as many problems as it solved. Alpha Tau Omega president John Bolinger said
that his house would prefer a system based on self-selection. Jack Caldwell of Phi Delta Theta, although supporting fraternity reform,
emphasized the need for a degree of flexibility for those unsatisfied with their present assignment, allowing reassignment the next year.
Giving the residence hall renovation a high priority, the SLC specified dorms with public common rooms and at least some
suites which provide space for study and for entertaining guests, as well as space for sleeping. The committee felt the
most attractive idea was to convert the three bedrooms into two bedrooms with a living room in-between. Other suggested features
included kitchenettes, study-seminar rooms, and faculty offices. As far as the college Union is concerned, the SLC report recommended waiting
on decisions as to enlargement and coeducation before planning any extensive changes. The committee also looked into the problem of
married student housing, an area where there is little indication that the college has assumed any significant responsibility. They recommended
no specific changes, but suggested the college assume a much larger role as soon as the library and residence hall
renovations have been accomplished. An interim suggestion was making college apartments and Jackson Court available to married students as soon
as they are vacated by their present occupants, and meanwhile providing information about privately owned units available to students.

Cafeteria people, since most have already come at noon or 1. The solution to the problem is having a better
percentage of freshmen without a class at 12. In the past, Kleeburg said, if such a situation had come about
in the fall term, the assignment of students to certain classes and the decision on which hour a course is
to be taught have been juggled to leave fewer freshmen in class at noon, and hence also lighten the temporary
load on the cafeteria capacity. "We could handle quite a few more people here if they would spread themselves out
better, with people coming through from 12:30 to 12:50, when we now have practically no one coming through," Kleeberg added.
A straw poll of upperclassmen indicated that the quality of the food this year is neither better nor worse than
in the past.

Spring Seminar Abroad Planned

The on-location Spring Term Seminar in Classics Abroad will be offered again this spring. The first meeting for those interested
in attending will be held Monday, Oct. 5, at 4 in Chambers 310. The seminar is limited to a maximum
of nine students with all sophomores and juniors eligible. The program is not designed for majors in the classics. Sessions
will be held in Greece, Italy, and Southern Italy under both faculty and student leadership. The Educational Policy Committee has
ruled that those successfully completing the seminar will be given credit for three courses. George Labban, professor of Greek, is
the director of the program.
