Che Aauidsontsn -. “THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED BELL, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR OCTOBER 16, 1970

End Of Exclusion

In the curious rhetoric which characterizes all trustee actions, Davidson's trustees have neither abolished nor supported the fraternity system and have initiated a plan which will probably eliminate the inequities in the present system. Perhaps most significant in the action is the assertion that ultimately affiliation with a social group will be by the choice of the individual and not at the whim of local or national exclusive tendencies. We hope that the self-selection might be implemented right away even though mechanics are not yet on a definite timetable. Also of chief importance in the proposals are the requirements which seem sure to eliminate the possibilities of off-campus fraternities. It is quite important that these restrictions were made. All in all, we must congratulate the trustees on a good afternoon's work.

Slow Wheels Of Change

Change comes so slowly to the Davidson campus that when committee meetings, referendums, studies, referrals back to committee, faculty meetings, ad hoc studies, leafletted proposals, editorial endorsements, and midnight discussions are finished, it is hard to realize that action has actually touched this college. But when that action does occur it should not pass without notice of some sort. Such is the case with self-scheduled exams. A bit of gratitude must go to all those who finally pushed and persuaded the faculty to adopt a program for trial of self-scheduled exams. Somewhere back in the past of recent Davidson history, self-scheduled exams were recognized as a worthwhile goal of student concern. Nothing concrete happened, however, until the proposals became the cause célèbre of the student government in the senate. Through constant study, proposals, and re-evaluations, members of the senate were able to convince the faculty that a program which they seemed to eschew with vigor last spring would be worthy of adoption. Yet all the work is not done, and we would hope that the faculty will continue to be mindful of their proposals until the details are resolved. In this way, perhaps the trial will actually take place in the winter term. We would hate to see a lack of such concern allow this change, like so many at Davidson, to be stalled indefinitely.

Masters Of Hokum

Once again Davidson has embarked on the masters of hokum. Forget those great moments when hundreds of our members gathered on dormitory row to watch Major Ho Pin do his daring slide-for-life into the prickly bushes of Cannon dorm. Even faculty were thrilled. How about old what’s-his-name who, in the past, did it once again before live bar? The crowd thrilled on, and we need no further delineation. What is more, the discussion of the old system, and the one which will replace it, diverts attention from the really important question which now confronts us: How are we to ensure the continuance of Davidson as a social community in the face of a growing segmentation of the student body? The key word in the recent changes within the college is community. In its name, the Code of Responsibility was substituted for a more bulky set of rules. In its name, we bid fraternities farewell. Yet, for all the talk of community which permeates our official statements, there is little reason to suppose that the changes which have taken place over the last four years, and those which will take place over the next four, will do anything to further our progress toward this goal. In fact, there is more reason to suppose that it will set us back. For all its drawbacks, the Davidson which presented itself to the freshman of four years ago had a number of mechanisms which, however small a measure, helped to knit the community together. The existence of compulsory chapel ensured that, twice a week, the College Community was in thesame place at the same time. If the presentation was awful, we faced it together. Rush, insisted, if nothing else, that the freshman would get an opportunity to meet a number of upperclassmen whom he would never have known otherwise. I am not lamenting the loss of the "good old days;" they obviously weren't that good. Chapel was a pain which none among the student body was sorry to see go. The lack of interest in the Greek system in response to its impending demise indicates that the enthusiasm level here is not as high as it once was. 

Yet, this kind of program would tend to segment, rather than unite, the college community. It would center the attention of the student in his particular residential unit, rather than widening the scope of his acquaintances. The same kind of argument pertains with regard to non-selective eating clubs. Outside those with whom he became acquainted through his house, how many upperclassmen would a freshman have occasion to meet? Not many, to be sure. One of the obvious advantages which a small school has to offer is a closer sense of community than is present at bigger, more impersonal universities. Without careful consideration of the implications of future changes in the social system here, we may throw away this advantage by undermining the concept of community to which we now pay so much lip service. Let us, then, quit beating the dead horse of fraternities and start talking about getting to know each other.

Extravaganza? She just didn’t understand. But no matter how I tried, I couldn't even make it partially clear. Big Weekends, that is. During dinner, I told her about the wonderful plans for the weekend including the skydiver, card shark, Mark Twain impressionist, the First Edition, and everything. But she still couldn't fathom it all. She kept asking, "Why?" and I just didn’t know how to answer.

"Why have these extravaganzas you call Big Weekends?" she queried. "Female companionship for all us socially starved plebes," I promptly pleaded, adding that it gives good excuses to invite affectionate blondes from Augusta, Atlanta, and Houston to come to this lonely end of the earth. I was sure that would convince her, but she was unmoved.

"But what about all the boys not dating because they have law and med boards on Saturday?"

"They'll have their chance come Mid-winters and Spring Frolics," I rationalized. "We'll repeat this madness twice more."

"But why pour all your budget into only a few weekends, blowing it all in three big bashes?" she pressed.

"Lots of weather we have outside," I offered evasively. But some girls are obstinate.

"What do you do for social and interesting weekends?" she asked with an innocent drawl.

I was prepared for that: "There's flickerball, football, basketball, swimming, soccer, the cross country track. Why, most any sport you can name!"

"I mean girls," she clarified impatiently.

"Oh, well, Linds is just a half an hour or so down the road," I explained, "and Salem and Converse are only a few hours away."

"But you don't have a car," she observed and I tried to change the subject again: "Our football team is doing real well," I tried, "only lost two of our first five games."

"And how much does that fiasco of a program cost?" she snapped.

"About $200,000 a year, but it gives us something to do Saturday afternoons and the alumni something to bet on," I apologized.

"Like some salmon for dessert?" I asked, struggling to get her attention to matters at hand.

"Why doesn’t Davidson junk football and Big Weekends and spend that money on going coed?" she pondered. "Then you'd have female companionship all the time."

I just can’t understand her puzzlement. She had no appreciation for our academic monastery and time-tested traditions. I could tell she was one of those people who has a hard time remembering what mnemonic means.