PHI BETA KAPPA SELECTS SEVEN

TRAFFIC COMMITTEE CRACKS DOWN (See Page Four)

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

NUMBER FIFTEEN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1970

MAP OF SUGGESTED DEVELOPMENT of service roads and circulation. This map, presented by the Academy For Educational Development to the Board of Trustees, includes the following general suggestions: number 2, new south entrance to the campus; 3, proposed parking expansion; 4, new wing to Martin Science building; 10, 21, new east entrance to the campus; 12, suggested improved parking; 11, Library and Learning Resources Center; 13, campus pocket park; 14, reorganization.

AED Report Just North Of Campus

By Paul Rowland
Associate Editor

Davidson's Board of Trustees said Wednesday that they like campus development proposed by a $40,000 study, but took no action towards implementing them. A resolution adopted by the trustees voiced approval of a “North Campus” expansion plan and specifically set a site for a new library and learning center building to be located near Lingle Manor. The trustees also ruled that an enrollment figure of 1500 to 1600 be assumed in the “long-range projections for campus and financial planning.” Although there was no mention of girls, President Samuel R. Spencer indicated that a proposed boy-girl ratio of 900 to 600 might be feasible. Spencer said it was assumed that the size of the faculty would also be increased in long-range plans to maintain Davidson’s student-faculty ratio.

The plan prepared by AED for Dober, Upton and Peacock, Associates leaves the present campus pretty much intact, making its major innovations in the proposed North Campus. The addition of a wing to the Martin Chemistry building, and removal of the current Guest House and the old wooden college changes suggested for the present campus. The plan would close College Drive and reroute through traffic from the southeast via a belt road around the football stadium. The new North Campus would include new student housing, dining facilities, a new infirmary, and a “Davidson House” to serve as a center for continuing education, a restaurant and overnight guest accommodations, and recreational activities. The new library and learning center for which two million dollars have been raised already would serve as the architectural and functional bridge between the old and new campus.

Commenting on the proposed development map showing proposed campus improvements, Spencer observed that, except for the library site, specific recommendations are very tentative and subject to considerable change.

New Staff Named To Publish Paper

Rising Juniors David Grissett and John McLean will be the new Managing Editors for THE DAVIDSONIAN staff announced this week by editor-elect Ed Shoaf. Grissett, who has been working as an assistant news managing editor, will become the editor in charge of the editorial and feature pages. Assisting him will be freshman Gray Wilson. McLean will assume the post of managing editor in charge of news. He has been the editorial-feature editor for the past year and will be assisted in his new position by freshman Rich Wilson. Shoaf also has appointed freshman Neil Coghill as the new News Editor for the staff. Sophomore Don Parman will continue as Sports Editor, and Sophomore Steve Cross is assuming the duties of Copy Editor for the new staff. Heading the editorial board will be Associate Editors John Fine, Russ Merritt, Steve Roady, Paul Rowland, and Joe Smith. All of these Associate Editors are Juniors with the exception of Merritt who is a Sophomore. Shoaf also announced that Rowland would be featured in a column every other week on the editorial pages. He will alternate in this position with Seniors Robert Pyatt and David Sweatt who will write for the remainder of the year. Sophomores John Davidson and Bill Lyle, presently Photography Editors for THE DAVIDSONIAN, will continue in that capacity for the new staff.

Phase I of the North Campus proposal; 16, pedestrian bridge; 17, 18, reorganization of traffic patterns; 19, additional housing primarily for students and 20, proposed Davidson House. The site of the new library and learning center was the only specific item from those suggestions approved by the trustees this week. (Photo by Earl Lawrimore)

Trustees Modify Football Support, Set Future Goals

By RUSS MERRITT and JOE SMITH
Associate Editors

At the conclusion of a two-day special session, Davidson's Board of Trustees has passed a series of resolutions which set broad guidelines for the future development of the college as an institution and which set definite limits to varsity football's claims on the college's general fund. These decisions were announced by Board Chairman Walter Lingle and Davidson President Samuel Spencer at a news conference following the session's end on February 4. The trustees dispelled rumors concerning the pending death of subsidized football at Davidson by voting to continue the established level of the present inter-collegiate program with certain stipulations placed upon the college’s present financial support of football. In a move designed to reduce the immediate cost of football to the college, the trustees decided to reduce the amount of funds given to the football program from the general college fund. However, in compensation for limiting the funds given directly from the college, the athletic fund has been separated from the living endowment, making it now possible for financial aid to be given directly to the football program. For several years all such contributions have gone directly to and have been allotted from the general fund of the college. Under the new subsidization plan, the college will make available from its general funds a sum equal to 52 times the average grant made to non-athletic scholarship holders. In terms of the present value of scholarships, the effect of the new plan is to reduce expenditures on football from the general fund by $100,000. Lingle and Spencer both pointed out that the amount allocated would vary with the value of the average scholarship, a figure which is continually rising. To keep the football program at its present level, the slack would be taken by alumni contributions through the Wildcat Club. Lingle expressed confidence that the necessary funds could and would be raised. The trustees decided that the present inter-collegiate basketball program should be continued as is with a total of 18 scholarships. Also, the trustees decided to maintain Davidson's membership in the Southern Conference in all sports. A second resolution affirmed Trustee support for efforts by the college to enroll students from a variety of racial, economic, social and geographical backgrounds. Referring specifically to the recruitment of black students, the Trustees denied the necessity of a quota system and recommended that only those applicants be admitted who have a “reasonable and probable chance of academic success.” In commenting on the resolutions, Spencer said, “The Trustees have reaffirmed their commitment to the principle of equal opportunity for all students.”

(See TRUSTEES, Page 4)

SGA Senate Joins NSA On One-Year Trial Plan

NSA membership and the ever-increasing parking problem were the principal issues of the SGA meetings of January 28 and February 3. The Senate reversed a decision of January 21 by voting to accept a trial membership in NSA, and took action on the parking situation which indicates that it may be the leading issue of Davidson student politics in the future. By a vote of15-0 with two abstentions, the meeting of January 28 reversed its decision of the previous week on trial membership in the National Student Association. The membership will cost the SGA five dollars and will last one year. The motion passed in the Senate stipulated that a decision on full membership in NSA be made on or before March 1, 1971.

The parking issue was opened by President Hobbie at the meeting of Jan. 28. At this meeting, he read a letter which he had written to ‘Man In Control?,’ Lapp.

McHarg Featured Speakers
By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

‘Is man in control or has uncontrollability to his own ruin?’ That is the question with which the participants in Queens College’s symposium: ‘Man In Control?’ will grapple Monday and Tuesday. The two-day symposium begins at 10 a.m. with a lecture by nationally acclaimed Far Eastern specialist Dr. Alan Watts on the subject of ‘Mysticism and Ecology.’ The theme will be that man’s misconception of himself in the universe has resulted in grave environmental problems. Dr. Watts is a prolific author. Among his titles are “The Wisdom of Insecurity,” “Myth and Ritual in Christianity,” “Nature, Man, and Woman,” and “Beyond Theology.” He is a former Dean of the Harvard University graduate school.

Monday afternoon at 2 there will be panel discussions on “Control of the Mind” and “Population and Birth Control” in Suzanne Little Recital Hall. At 3:30 p.m. there will be a panel discussion on “Political Economics” in Jernigan Student Center. Among the panelists will be Professors Jon W. Fuller and William E. Jackson Jr. of Davidson College, and Col. Virgil P. Foster of Davidson’s ROTC unit. At 8 p.m. Monday there will be a lecture by Dr. Ralph E. Lapp on the subject of “Weapons Control.” Dr. Lapp is a nationally known nuclear physicist and a strong opponent of the ABM and extensive missile defenses. Dr. Lapp served on the Manhattan A-Bomb Project during World War II.

IFC Elects Bruner
Rising Senior Johnny Bruner has been elected by the IFC as its new president. Bruner was elected at a recent meeting of the council which also elected Jack Steele to be its vice-president. Bruner has stated that he hopes the IFC can go beyond administrative matters in its work to delve creatively into areas or problems facing the fraternity court today. He said he would rather see the IFC initiate action than react to outside pressure. Bruner said that in this consideration of issues he hopes to be open to all students including Independents. He listed some of the things he hopes the IFC will consider as including an IFC social weekend and some system of informal rush to begin before the normal second term formal rush procedures.

A “Meet the Press” style panel discussion will be held at 9:30 Monday night. Dr. Alan Watts and Dr. Ralph Lapp will answer questions fielded by newsmen from The Charlotte Observer, The Charlotte News, and WBTV Channel 3.

Tuesday’s activities begin in Dana Auditorium at 10 a.m. with a lecture on “Design with Nature” by Professor Ian L. McHarg, professor of landscape architecture and regional planning at the University of Pennsylvania. At 2 p.m. there will be a panel discussion on “Air and Water Pollution” in Suzanne Little Recital Hall. Among the panelists will be reporter Pat Smith of the Charlotte News, whose articles on the pollution of Sugaw Creek won him the North Carolina Press Association Community Service Award. Another panel at the same time will deal with “Changing Democracy” in which Dr. Karl C. Garrison, assistant professor of sociology at Davidson College, will participate. In the Dana Building there will be a panel on “Communications in Education.” The panel will include Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, President of Davidson College, and Dr. John D. Kelton, professor of psychology at Davidson. At 4:30, the two-day program will conclude with a summing-up session in Dana Auditorium entitled “So What?”

By RICHARD WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Dressed in a multi-colored outfit and wearing unzipped boots, large horn-rimmed glasses, and a leather hat, Dennis Strong, a professor of Black studies at Brandeis University, stood before a group of about 80 people who came to hear him speak on “The Role of White Society in the Black Liberation Movement.” Strong began his talk by noting that the white society harbors many misconceptions of the “Black Revolution.” And these misconceptions produce in society the ominous feeling that they are following a collision course. “They fear integration as well as polarization; yet, they do not realize that these terms are opposites,” he said. “Nevertheless they fear both. “The term ‘Black Revolution’ makes you think that I hate you,” claimed the black professor, “and you think that every black face has this hatred. But you don’t know. Society strikes out at things not because it knows them, but because it fears them.”

In his opinion, Strong felt that the purpose of the ‘Black Revolution’ is to stimulate thinking concerning society. “It is not an anti-white movement,” he noted, “but a pro-black one. It is a matter of self-preservation, the first law of nature and need of man. “But this brings up the question of wants and needs. “Needs are things which we would call crucial to our survival; yet, how many wants do people call needs? We feel that we need large sums of money, and we pursue this before anything else. “But if you are locked up in a room and you become hungry, can you eat money? Or if you are an infantryman in Vietnam, will a dollar bill stop a bullet? “The basic problem is that we are immobilized by things we don't have. If you are in a car, and you turn on the radio, air-conditioner, and lights without starting the motor, you will run the battery down. Energy is being wasted for your temporary comfort.” Strong termed this action as “hustling backwards.” People work for luxuries before they have the necessities. “But as for genuine needs,” he emphasized, “I haven't yet discovered one of my needs that has conflicted with other people.”

Turning to the subject of education, the lecturer stated that this institution has tried to indoctrinate every student in the country into the idealized American way of life. “Any similarity between the actual situation and what you learn in school is purely coincidental,” he quipped. “Education, though, is the key. If I control your mind, I control your body and every movement which you make. For example, the Negro schools in the country try to transform their students into (See STRONG, Page 4)

Robert Currie, Business Manager of the college. The letter protested fine increases and ambiguous administration of traffic regulations which had resulted from the transfer of parking administration to his office from the office of the Dean of Students. Currie appeared at the meeting of Feb. 4, pointing out that changes had been made in the system and that he was eager to confer with students about further changes. After his presentation, the Senate passed a resolution recommending that funds be appropriated from next year's (1970-1971) budget for the construction of a new parking area.

(Staff photo by Lyle)