PIKA’S TOP IMAC STANDINGS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 29, 1970

Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

NUMBER TWENTY-NINE

SWEATT PROBES ‘COMMITTEE VIOLENCE’

EPC Endorses Self-Scheduling

By RICH WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) at last Monday's meeting passed a resolution to recommend to the faculty some form of self-scheduled exams on a two-year trial basis. Although this resolution will not affect exams this Spring, the EPC hopes the program will be in effect for Fall term exams.

“The idea of self-scheduled exams involved two basic considerations,” said EPC student representative Danny Clodfelter. “The first was whether the honor system could bear the strain of a self-scheduled exams proposal, and the second concerned the actual mechanics of the program.

“This resolution resolves the first question. The EPC feels that if the Honor Court informs the students of their responsibilities during the exam week, the honor system will survive.

“What this resolution means is that the EPC is committed to the idea of self-scheduled exams. Now the committee must resolve the second question of the actual mechanics of the program.” Clodfelter said he felt that the committee would work out the details of the program in the remaining weeks of school so that the proposal would be in the hands of the faculty early next fall.

The resolution, however, contains a clause which limits the self-scheduled exams program to two years. The philosophy behind this restriction, according to EPC member Daniel D. Rhodes, professor of Bible and religion, is to ensure that the system be reviewed to see whether it is working well.

“If this program is instituted, we want to make sure that it just doesn’t slide along. This is why the EPC voted to restrict the program to two years. We want to review it to see whether it is worth the price,” Rhodes said.

“This idea of self-scheduled exams may be worth trying, but grave questions remain open as to whether the students will buckle down and really make the honor system function,” he said.

EPC member Bible and Religion Professor Max E. Polley felt that the system will work; however, he said that “the student may be at a disadvantage without access to the professor.”

“No matter how clearly I think I've made out a test, many times there is something vague which I don't realize. This could be a problem in some cases,” he said.

Executive Committee Responds

MEMORANDUM

TO: The Faculty
FROM: The Executive Committee

The Executive Committee has received a number of proposals from student leaders for college-wide alterations of classes and calendar for the remainder of this term and for next fall. The Executive Committee concludes that, in spite of extraordinary disturbances of recent weeks, the primary obligation of the College is to its educational program. We therefore think it unwise to agree to interrupt the college’s program by granting the request for a three-day holiday this week, or to abandon the basic educational requirements of the current term.

But because we recognize the acute concern of many students with current affairs, the Executive Committee authorizes individual members of the Faculty at their discretion, in addition to allowing term papers to be postponed until the end of the term, as presently authorized under faculty rules, to set aside faculty rules on absences and make-up reviews for those students who wish to participate in public affairs away from the campus between now and the beginning of the examination period on June 6.

The Executive Committee does not authorize changes in examination schedules or relieve any student from his responsibility for completing the requirements of his courses by the end of the term.

The Executive Committee also expects to recommend to the Faculty that some means be provided so that students who wish to do so may participate in public affairs in the fall, provided that no shortening of the term occurs.

Faculty To Vote Tuesday On Area Exam Substitute

The Freshman-Sophomore Extended Studies Program has been passed by the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) and will be considered by the entire faculty at their meeting Tuesday.

EPC student representatives Danny Clodfelter and Rich Cowart will hold an open meeting Tuesday at 10 a.m. in the Morrison Room to explain the proposal to interested students.

According to Clodfelter, if this proposal is passed by the faculty, the Class of ‘73 will be the first class affected by it.

Under this plan, freshmen and sophomores must complete 16 courses plus two extended studies program options before becoming a junior. In place of the ninth course each year, freshmen and sophomores must select one of three program options: to pass an area exam, to take a regular course from the curriculum on a pass-fail basis, or to select the experimental programs options.

This last option may involve seminars, school-wide programs, or independent projects; however, individual areas are encouraged by the proposal to be flexible enough to incorporate other new options as they are conceived.

This proposal calls for the addition of a fifth area to the existing four: language and literature, math and science, religion and philosophy, and the social sciences. This fifth area will be an interdisciplinary one dealing with topics and programs which overlap the established four areas.

The proposal maintains that “students will complete successfully at least one program option by the beginning of the junior year. These options will be in two of the five areas, or both may be in the fifth interdisciplinary area. All programs taken for Extended Studies credit will be taken on a pass or fail basis.”

Awards Banquet Cites Excellence

Davidson closed out one major part of its academic year with the presentation of academic and achievement awards to outstanding students at a banquet Wednesday night. Dean of Students C. Richard Burts Jr. presided over the ceremonies, which included the presentation of some of Davidson's more outstanding varsity players (see story on page three).

Presenting awards for the French department, Francis Ghigo honored freshman Robert Banta, sophomore Fred Wilson, and senior George Moskos for their excellent work in the study of French.

Tim Timmons was awarded the George L. Gladstone Award for outstanding contributions to the life and reputation of the college. Tom Opie was also awarded for exceptional contributions to Davidson with the Sentelle Brown Award.

Receiving the Davidson College Drama Award was Sterling Abernathy for his contributions to the technical quality of student drama productions. Tom Way and Cullum Rogers both received a Raleigh Turner Award for outstanding individual performances in an acting role over the past year.

An award combining athletic and academic recognition, the George M. King Football and Academic Award went to George Hannen. For his interest and work in the field of education, George Penick Jr. received the Teachers College Book Prize. The book presented to Penick was Margaret Mead’s “Culture and Commitment: A Study of the Generation Gap.”

Tom Opie was also awarded the David Howard Chemistry Award for his work as a chemistry major. The Sandy Black Memorial Award for an outstanding rising senior premedical student was given to Ed Shoaf Jr.

Two awards for excellent work in economics were given at the banquet. To Robert Harris went the A. K. Phifer Scholarship for 1970-71 for his promising achievement as a rising senior economics major. Randy Carter was awarded the Wall Street Journal Award as an outstanding senior economics major.

PUBLICATION CEASES

With this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication for the 1969-70 academic year. Publication must cease a week before the end of the formal academic year due to the beginning of exams on Saturday, June 6 without a pre-exam study day. The first issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN for the 1970 fall term will appear September 18, the Friday of the first week of the ‘70-71 academic year. Subscriptions to THE DAVIDSONIAN for the 1970-71 academic year may be reserved by writing to Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. The price of a subscription will remain at $7.00 for the year.

AGAINST THE WALL

Students Plan Journey To Washington To Discuss Peace With Congressmen

By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

About 40 Davidson students are planning to go to Washington, D.C. Monday to plead the case for peace to their Senators and Congressmen. The group, calling itself the Davidson Peace Coalition, plans to leave in a chartered bus or by private cars early Monday morning and return the same night. There will be a meeting of all thoseWho would like to go to Washington Friday at 10 a.m. in the College Union? Franklin sophomore Senior Ander Chris, capital son, and Sikes went to Washington Wednesday to make appointments and preparations for the journey. They are working there with the National Student Association and the Virginia Students Legislative Coordinating Committee to make appointments, according to Sikes. Sikes reported that the office of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D. Mass.) is open to visitors, but there would be little chance of talking with Kennedy since he will be acting Majority Leader that Monday. Sikes and Anderson have already secured an appointment with Sen. John Sherman Cooper (R.-Ky.), one of the co-sponsors of the “Cooper-Church Amendment” which would cut off funds for the war in Vietnam and Indochina. According to Sikes, 25 of the Davidson group will be able to meet with Cooper at 3 p.m. Monday. Anderson said that students who can should help by contributing to the peace groups that have been lobbying for the Cooper-Church Amendment. He said they will need volunteers during the summer to read mail and do research for peace candidates running for Congress. As of press time, it was not known whether the group would travel to Washington by bus or in private cars. The $624 necessary to charter a bus had not been raised from funded organizations on campus, although Peace Coalition spokesmen said they could raise some $250 from the SGA Senate and the YMCA. “That much would offset the cost to the individual making the trip,” Anderson said. Plans do not include an overnight stay in Washington, although Sikes and Anderson said arrangements could easily be made through universities in the area for those who did not want to return the same night.

Senate Challenges Officials to Respond to Grievances

The SGA Senate Wednesday night endorsed a statement of policy which challenges the college administration to be more responsive to students who have grievances with it. SGA President Ran Coble said he hoped it would encourage college officials to “open up a little more and loosen up a little more.” Several senators said that the administration is relying more and more on “hard and fast rules” rather than lenient interpretations of rules. They cited the experience of the Ad Hoc Committee for the Protection of Students, which earlier this spring failed to gain redress of grievances with the Requirements Committee. The policy statement in part: “We are going to select and publicize our priorities and if students or faculty-administration disagree with these concerns, then the responsibility lies with them to convince us of our mistakes. “It also means that every proposal will not be funneled through the Senate because students on ad hoc committees are likely to be more knowledgeable about and directly affected by their particular concerns. “This attitude is a change in that Senate endorsement is currently needed to ‘legitimize’ requests and proposals. “I might add, however, that the Senate will consider any future petition or request for help; an audience with the Senate can easily be obtained since Senate meetings, unlike faculty meetings, are open to all members of the college community.” Coble outlined Senate priorities for next year as being (1) a career-studies program, (2) self-scheduled exams, (3) student representation on the Admissions Committee, and (4) college finances. The policy statement also recommended that the College “place a particular emphasis on the recruiting of special people with special talents rather than the current trend toward admitting just the well-rounded All-American type.” Sophomore senator Danny Clodfelter proposed this compromise wording to heal a split between conservatives who wished to imply that admitting All-American types was also desirable and liberals who felt a stronger commitment to recruit other types was needed. The Senate also appropriated $75 to cover the costs of visiting and calling trustees to inform them about campus activities on Cambodia.

Policy Clarified on Readmissions

By TOM VERNON
Associate Editor

The Admissions Committee, after several sessions, released a full statement on their re-admissions policy. The statement, dated May 26, opens with its overall guideline: “Students in good standing who withdraw from Davidson ordinarily are re-admitted.” The policy statement was judged by one member as having come to a large extent in response to the questioning of the committee's actions by the Ad Hoc Committee for Student Grievances and as a result of open meetings held by the Admissions Committee several weeks ago. The statement provides for: Students withdrawing at the end of a term for extended travel, employment, or work at another institution and who meet the general requirements will be re-admitted not later than the beginning of the next Winter or Spring term. Students withdrawing for the entire year will be re-admitted for the fall term. In such cases, Associate Director of Admissions Jon Regen will act for the committee. Students withdrawing during a term for physical, motivational, emotional, or psychological reasons will be re-admitted according to the same guidelines as above “after the committee decides it is to the student’s advantage or best interests to return to Davidson.” The associate director may refer the case to the full committee or consult the individual members, the Dean of Students, or the Registrar. Students who are excluded or required to withdraw are to consult the Dean of Students concerning re-admission. Eligibility will be determined by the Faculty Executive Committee and the timing by the associate director or the full Admissions Committee. The new policy statement provides for all students in any other situation to be handled on an individual basis. Some general requirements apply to all students. These include a letter stating the reasons for withdrawing, how a student’s time has been spent in the interim, whether academic work has been undertaken and what credit is expected, a student’s major, expected time of graduation, and the term for which he desires re-admission. In addition to the letter, a student must have earned a grade of at least C in each course undertaken while away from Davidson, and have a brief letter of recommendation establishing good conduct to be written by an employer or college official. A doctor must send the appropriate information if a student withdraws for medical or emotional reasons. One member of the committee said that the codification was important for several reasons—first because it removes some uncertainty from the student's mind as to the operation of the committee and what he should expect, and secondly because it serves as a reminder to the Admissions Committee.

Demonstrators Watch ROTC Awards Drill

About 120 students joined freshmen John Wackman and David Sengel Tuesday in presenting the Davidson College ROTC department with its second protest within the past month. In a letter last week, Wackman and Sengel had warned Colonel Virgil P. Foster, professor of military science, of their intention to stage a peaceful demonstration during the ROTC drill. Foster had agreed to allow the protestors entrance to the drill field on the condition that the protest would be orderly and that demonstrators remain in the stands of the football stadium. Accordingly, the demonstrators gathered in the stands in silence and remained quiet through the 40-minute drill. Although some students complained after the drill that the protest had been too mundane to have a significant effect, Wackman and Sengel earlier had said that their aim was not to interfere with the ROTC program or infringe upon the rights of any academic members of this community. In their earlier letter to Foster, Wackman and Sengel had stated their purpose as wanting “to express our increasing concern over the national administration's policy of war.” They had hoped that the drill would include the traditional spring federal inspection and that government officials from outside the college would be on hand to witness the demonstration, according to Wackman. As it turned out, the drill included only a general review and the annual awards ceremonies. Twenty-three cadets were decorated in the ROTC ceremonies. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. presented six cadets with the Department of the Army Superior Cadet Decoration for outstanding performance of duty. Recipients of this award were George Hannen, John Bryant, Will Early, Kim Griffith, and David Mee.