Page Six February 13, 1970 The Davidsonian

UNCC Program Offers Government Internships

Due primarily to the efforts of junior Reggie Whitley, interested students will have a chance to work as governmental interns in the Charlotte area in a program to be initiated this summer. Known as the University of North Carolina Internship in Education and Community Service, the program will be administered by the Institute of Urban Studies at UNCC Charlotte.

According to Whitley, the program will provide 40 internships this summer. Of these, 25 will go to students at UNCC while the rest are open to students at any of the other eight schools in the Charlotte Area Education Consortium, which includes Davidson. Each position is to provide 12 weeks of study and work in Charlotte. In addition to the $1,000 dollars provided for each student, it is planned that the participants could transfer up to two hours of academic credit to their own schools, Whitley said.

The deadline for application to the program is Feb. 20. Once the students are selected, they will begin meeting to plan their summer work and the content of a seminar to be held for them at UNCC. The students will decide the format of seminars well in advance so that the speakers and leaders they request can be contacted right away. The object is to allow the students complete responsibility in designing the seminars.

Whitley said that the project grew out of research which he did last summer for the Southern Regional Educational Board and the North Carolina Resources Development Project. His job, Whitley said, was to study the concept of regional governmental internships for the Charlotte area. Eventually, the plan will include regional studies to cover the entire state. It is hoped that regional systems of internships can be set up in Greensboro and Raleigh to complement the program in Charlotte.

During his work, Whitley said that he defined over a hundred possible internships and studied the financing of the projects. The culmination of his work was a report to UNCC detailing his findings. It was out of these findings that the new program was evolved.

Whitley stressed that the program would give the students very personal insights into the operation of local government and give the participants a chance to take a vital part in such government. Also important, Whitley said, would be the interchange of cultures, black and white, and the exchange of ideas between the young and the old in the government.

Election Results? Computer Knows

“Progress is regress,” claimed one student who was a bit dubious about the idea, but the juniors and seniors who devised computer vote-counting maintain that Davidson’s IBM 1620 can tabulate election results not only faster but more accurately than the old hand-counting system. Three elections so far have been computerized by junior Tom Vernon and senior Frank Anderson, with only one mishap to upset the record. “That was when the computer was out of commission for maintenance work, and the ballots had to be sorted by other data processing equipment,” explained Vernon.

Ballots are printed on computer cards, and while the candidates' names are punched into the cards during the polling, after the polls close, the only task is to run the cards through the computer, which counts the votes, works out percentages, and compares totals to see who is elected. Results are printed out on ditto stencils, which are then run off and posted around the campus.

“It has been as late as 9 p.m. in the past before results have been known, and this system is certainly much better,” said Vernon.

Open Dorm Policy Set

The Residence Hall Council voted unanimously Monday night to extend the present open dorm hours for all residence halls through the end of the winter term. Belk, Duke, East, and Watts dormitories will be open from 12 noon until 12 midnight on weekdays, and from 12 noon until 2 a.m. Friday and Saturday nights. Cannon dormitory will not be open on weekdays, but will be open from 12 noon until 2 a.m. Friday and Saturday nights, and from 12 noon until 6 p.m. Sunday nights. The exact hours for open house were determined by a vote of dorm residents last fall.

CAST REHEARSES CLIMACTIC SCENE

Strutting and fretting hours upon the stage. (Photo by Charles Newton)

By JOE SMITH
Associate Editor

A brief swearing-in ceremony Monday ushered in a new administration of affairs. Stagg Newman, chairman of the Davidson College Regulations Court, administered the oath of office to the new YMCA cabinet, SGA Senators, SGA Vice President Cecil Burney, and SGA President Ran Coble. Davidson College president Samuel Spencer Jr. and outgoing SGA President Peter Hobbie were also in attendance at the ceremony.

President Coble said that the major emphasis of his administration will be educational reform. Coble’s first action toward educational reform will be a proposal for self-scheduled exams. He stated that the Educational Policy Committee will now occupy more student attention than before, taking the place now held by the Student Life Committee. This will be acted on at the second meeting of the new administration, the first meeting being purely organizational.

“There is not much disagreement over the theory of self-scheduled exams,” Coble said, “time is the issue. The Senate wants the exam period to cover five days, while a number of faculty members want it to run three.”

“It seems to me that the faculty proposal is not really self-scheduling,” Coble continued, “but I think that some action will be taken before the end of the term.”

‘Macbeth’ Stars Give New Look To Shakespeare’s Tragic Drama

By DAN GRAHAM
Staff Writer

At 11 p.m. only Maureen Lineaweaver, Tom Way, and Drama Director Rupert T. Barber are left in Hodson Hall. Barber smiles through heavy eyes after a 17-hour day. “Shakespeare is such a good playwright and I hate to say that, it’s such an understatement that a lot of a director's problems are solved.”

“But he has been studied so much and his passages are so familiar that it is a real challenge to present him in such a way as to make him theatrical.”

Tom as Macbeth and Maureen as Lady Macbeth are going through a scene. He is wandering around the stage too aimlessly. Their performance has not lost the sharpness it had 3 1/2 hours earlier. The scene feels better about his movements. He sits and relaxes.

“I think it is always fascinating to explore someone else’s personality,” he says. He smiles, “especially that of one of Shakespeare's imaginative, complex characters.”

“I would like to spend a year studying drama. Whatever you want to do — be a fireman, a lawyer, or whatever, it helps to find yourself, your capabilities, and feelings. I think acting is a good way to do that.”

Maureen says, “I think it is challenging to do a play like Macbeth because everyone has seen it before and knows it.”

“That’s not right,” Barber cuts in. “Everyone has read and studied Macbeth, but very few have actually seen it. That's the problem.”

Maureen has studied at the University of Florida as a dramatic arts major, and she is hoping to go back to finish her degree. “I don’t know if I will teach drama or act commercially, or model,” she says. Like Tom, she expresses enthusiasm in the future of the American theatre.

“There is a lot of emphasis on repertory companies now,” Tom points out. Companies are springing up in places where there has never before been serious interest in the drama. But the discussion and the rehearsal are over, and Maureen Lineaweaver, Tom Way, and Rupert Barber file wearily off the stage. “We'll be ready next week,” Barber promises.

A special preview performance for high school students is planned for 2:15 p.m. Wednesday, Barber said. Regular presentations will begin at 8:15 nightly Thursday, with a matinee Saturday at 2:15 p.m. Reservations may be made by calling the college drama department between 2 and 5 p.m. next week.

OPEN HOUSE

The following homes will be open Sunday evening at 8:
Grant 560
Lorimer McGeachy 309
Pinecrest Workman 209
Lorimer

LONG LEADERS OUTLINE

Coble For Self-Planned Exams, Burney Promotes Dorm Reformof the year, one way or the other. If all goes well, a new exam schedule could be in effect by spring term.” With regard to student involvement in SGA affairs, Coble pointed out that “Lack of communication between the Senate and the student body is our biggest problem. A great deal of this is the result of our transition to a new system of government, but the present situation is still unacceptable. “I don’t think that the problem can be solved overnight,” he said, “but we are going to try. Through hall discussions, flyers, and any other means available, the Senate is going to do all it can to inform the student body of its activities and to facilitate communication between students and their representatives,” Coble said.

The new head of the SGA said that the principal difference between himself and his predecessor is one of administrative style. He was critical of former President Hobbie’s “failure to differentiate his personal and public activities,” although he went on to point out that he did not necessarily disagree with either. Coble went on to point out that, with regard to his personal priorities, his duties to Davidson would come first. “Peter was willing to do a lot of work personally,” Coble continued. “As a result, a lot of people were confused as to what was actually going on. I prefer to spread out responsibility and to periodically check on the progress of the responsible committee or individual. Clear objectives and deadlines can help our committee system to work more effectively,” said Coble. “Effective delegation of responsibility will be a primary aim of this administration.”

“Our purpose is not just to pass legislation,” Coble said. “A student government should be measured by the services which it provides for students. We will seek to fulfill our obligation to the Davidson student body by remaining open to their suggestions and by doing all we can to see that these suggestions are acted upon,” he said.

Vice President Cecil Burney, new head of the Residence Hall Council, said that his organization would attempt to improve the living environment of the Davidson student through the encouragement of continued dormitory renovation. The RHC would also promote improved interpersonal relations in the dorms through a series of RHC-sponsored social and educational programs.

With regard to improving the living environment, Burney said that improved lighting and the addition of curtains and carpeting would be a step forward. He also maintained that painting dormitory rooms in alternating colors would also be an improvement. “Davidson is going to be in a state of change in the future and (it seems to me) that increased student participation in decision-making will ensure that the student of the future will be happy with the college.”

Concerning the expenses of his program, Burney said that “changes in the dormitories are going to be expensive. I think that the college should realize that it must have a more active fund-raising program among the alumni to finance the changes which will place Davidson at the forefront,” said Burney. “We should make every effort to improve the student’s environment without raising his fees,” he said. “One way to improve the college’s use of its resources, from the student’s point of view,” Burney continued, “is to place students on the committees which deal with budgetary matters.”

Burney’s ideas for the promotion of interpersonal relations involve the extension of present RHC programs and the creation of new programs to deal with what he calls the “sophomore slump.” “Sophomore slump,” according to Burney, can be traced to the break-up of the cohesive freshman hall as a result of dispersion to new living quarters and the effects of fraternity rush, both of which take place at the end of the freshman year. “My immediate suggestion,” said Burney, “is that we investigate putting all freshmen in Belk Dormitory. After the freshman year, each hall group would be moved, as a unit, to East, Cannon, and Watts. In this way, we could preserve the cohesiveness of the freshman hall and, hopefully, combat the ‘sophomore slump.’”

The creation of a situation similar to the freshman dorms can be achieved through minimal additional construction. Asked whether he thought that the RHC program was in competition with the fraternity system, Burney replied that he thought that the two systems were complementary rather than competitive. The Vice President is a member of a social fraternity, unlike his predecessor, Tom Opie. “I believe that there are other forms of social organization which are better than the fraternity system,” said Burney. “But I don’t think that Davidson should abolish fraternities until we have developed another program to provide equivalent social opportunities for the student body. We are not yet ready, in terms of facilities and overall program, to implement another system, so I am not in favor of immediate abolition of fraternities. The RHC should now be developing such a program so that we can be ready to act on the Trustee recommendations on social patterns, which will be released in the spring,” Burney said.

The Vice President said that the present student living environment is marred by unreasonable search of student rooms by college personnel. “While we are at Davidson,” said Burney, “our dormitory rooms are our homes. They aren’t much, but they are ours; and I don’t think that we want our privacy invaded by anyone.” “I have written a letter to the Dean of Students,” Burney said, “making it clear that unreasonable search is not acceptable and that a recurrence of past incidents will move us to action. I don’t want to try the Dean,” Burney said. “I merely want to work out a solution to our problem. College personnel should be welcome in the residence halls, but as friends, not raiders.”

Fellows Tap 6, Change Name

Following intensive interviews and group activity sessions at Montreat, N.C., Feb. 6-8, the North Carolina Fellows Program selection committee chose six Davidson freshmen: Spencer Clark, Bill Endy, Reggie Kennedy, Wally Kernodle, Gary Stephen Long, and Mike Wheeler. This North Carolina Fellows Program is the name of the newly reorganized Richardson Fellows Program. The Smith Richardson Foundation chartered a new organization known as the North Carolina Leadership Institute, Inc. so that the experiences gained through the fellows pilot program could be more extensively utilized.

Spencer Clark of Lumberton, North Carolina works in the “Y” program and is a member of the sailing team. Clark plans to use his fellowship by working in the inner city in the North. Bill Endy of Worcester, Pennsylvania plans to major in Economics. Endy is active in debating and hopes to use his fellowship by performing legal aid work in New Orleans. Reggie Kennedy from Charlotte, North Carolina is active in the recruiting of black students at Davidson and hopes to major in either sociology or political science. He is interested in an internship connected with some phase of city government, particularly housing, with this being a possible career choice. Wally Kernodle of Burlington, North Carolina tutors a young person in the STEP program and also works with a high school church youth group. He is unsure of his vocational plans but hopes to have an internship in some part of social work. Gary Stephen Long from Gastonia, North Carolina is interested in an internship of government work or the pursuit of a job in the French-speaking territory of Canada. Mike Wheeler of Blacksburg, Virginia is involved in the STEP program and would like to pursue an internship in the field of education.

Drugs (Continued From Page 1)

was not interested in using “undercover methods.” In Burts’ view, the college community should instead depend on a “concerned campus citizenship” of students who “feel responsible for each other” to enforce the Code’s sanctions against drug use. The College has not released information on the drug trials before this time because of a case in civil courts which would have been instituted by the defendant if he had been expelled from school. According to Burts, such a suit is “no longer imminent.”