Page Two October 30, 1970

The Davidsonian

Groups Receive Activities Funds
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Allocations for the Activities Fund have been made for the 1970-71 academic year at Davidson, pending the submission of a
revised budget by the trustees. Of the nine groups which received funds, the Black Student Coalition and WDAV are newcomers
to the list. Only the Pep Band was denied its request because it is covered by the Athletic Fund. The
group applied for funds to purchase new blazers for the band.

The percentages for the pie-pan illustration are taken from a total of $40,000 and are valued as follows:
- Miscellany $4500
- SGA 4090
- RA 985
- Quips and Cranks 12150
- Artist Series 4750
- DAVIDSONIAN 7475
- WDAV 1395
- Black Coalition 650
- Wildcat Handbook and carryover 4025
- Total $40,000

College Treasurer Robert A. Currie said he expected the carryover for next year to be a minimum of $2700, which
would leave $1325 from which the Wildcat Handbook might draw its funds. The carryover will be added to the 1971-72
school year to hedge against the predicted results of inflation. The student activity fee was increased from $25 to $40
this year, and Currie said he thinks the present amount can stand through next year without an increase.

Approximately $44,000 were requested by all the groups. Currie stated: "Cuts had to be made in a good many areas,
but I think the fund is adequate now, and I would judge that students do not want it to go
any higher."

(Staff photo by Manley)

THE ARTIST AND HIS WORK
Davidson's Herb Jackson pauses in front of his exhibit.

Jackson Art Features Windows
A REVIEW By CATHY ROSS
Staff Writer

Herb Jackson's showing at the fine arts center says as much about windows. One group of his paintings actually uses
a window pane motif. Many symmetrical squares of deep, backing-away air are framed.

Red Cross Sponsors Blood Drive
The semi-annual Red Cross Blood Drive will take place Monday and Tuesday, November 2-3, in the basement of Chambers Building.
The drive, sponsored by the college ROTC program, has been significantly reorganized, according to Cadet Brigade Commander Jack Steele.

"This year, for the first time, students are in charge of the blood drive," said Steele. "Although we are coordinating
our activities with the ROTC Department, we have made all the arrangements ourselves." Steele noted that the organizational change is
in keeping with the total program of leadership training which ROTC sponsors. "In the opinion of the department, allowing students
to take charge of the blood drive was a good way to give us practical experience in leadership," he said.
Steele added that the blood bank would be open on both Monday and Tuesday from 11 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.

Davidsonian Staff
Chief Associate: PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editors: DICK ANDERSON, JOHN McLEAN, RUSS MERRITT, JOE SMITH, TOM VERNON
Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT, DON PARMAN
Sports Editor: ERNIE SHIPE
Assistant Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD DY EUSON
News Editor: SCOTT DAVIDSON
Copy Editors: JEFF ALLENDER, STEVE CROSS
Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE
Assistant Sports Editor: A. W. TURNER
Cartoonists: M. J. B. FAWCETT, ZACK MOBLEY, CULLUM ROGERS, DARYL WILLIAMS
Circulation Managers: BRUCE PUCKETT, HOWARD RAMAGLI
Photographers: DAVE DOTY, ROGER MANLEY, SAM RAMACHANDRAN, BOB STRAND
Contributors this week: Hal Canter, Joe Earle, Charlie Terrell, Peter Michael, Dave Tierney, Howard Boyd, Robert Touchton, David Hanig, Andy
Strawcutter, Doug Brown, Cathy Ross, and Jim Hanna.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.by surfaces that
are themselves atmospheric. The contrast captures your eye into an automatic shift: first you feel depth, then you see surface.
Depth/surface shift. Not content to play only with your eyes, Jackson creates a second set of windows that seems to
take all of you through space and time. He supplies us a "Trap Door" up into air and "Trap Door
III" down, like falling out of heaven (that's in case you don't like his show). Jackson wrestles with the tangibility
of the intangible air... cubes and walls of it. He mirrors the invisible—in "Space Mirrors": overwhelms you with the heaviness
of his bluish, purple-grey fortress of atmosphere. The artist has an incredible way of knifing softness and sculpting airiness. It
is to Jackson's credit that the observer is affected physically by his work.

"Summer Wind" is a triptych of shaped canvases in gradations of orange, yellow, and green. The painting winds mechanically geometrical
shapes of space with gentle color and texture until you feel an undulating current, a soft wind, despite harsh edges.
The immense painting, "Down From the Mountain," works the same way, compelling you to throw yourself against that great wonderful
wall. Jackson has included some small, subtle pastels among his paintings. He's added shaped canvases and beveled panels, expanding the
expanses of space in "Flotation" and "Levitation" to seduce you into the main gallery where shapes of nothing become very
something.

Sterling Claims No Aid Cutbacks
By JIM HANNA
Staff Writer

There has been no cutback in Davidson's financial aid program, according to Financial Aid Director Peter V. Sterling. Sterling also
said that "next year we plan a program to meet the needs of all students who require financial aid." Sterling
noted that complaints from students about their aid grants could be traced to economic factors, a "lack of communication between
the financial aid office and the students."

Another cause of confusion, said Sterling, is that "Davidson offers financial aid equal to this office's calculation of a student's
need. Many times the student's estimate of his need will vary from ours, and so the student feels he has
not received an adequate amount."

Sterling characterized Davidson as "one of the few colleges who are able to offer such a complete financial aid program."
"Our contribution has increased over the years," said Sterling. "Fifty-six percent of the students here receive some sort of financial
aid." Sterling said that outside economic factors, including rising college costs, were "putting the squeeze on Davidson."

"There was a decrease from last year in the amount of Federal monies granted to Davidson, and I expect another
decrease next year." He also pointed out that two of Davidson's federal programs, including the Educational Opportunity Grants and Work-Study
Job Program, are designed for students whose family incomes are from $0-7500 a year. Only five percent of Davidson enrollees
fall into this bracket.

Sterling said that Davidson is making an effort to recruit low-income prospects, and that this requires aid money be redistributed
to allow for these students' greater need. Another factor in the tight money situation at Davidson is the "simultaneous, coincidental"
cessation of four private scholarship funds' contributions to the college financial aid program, said Sterling. Dana Scholarships, General Motors Grants,
Sloan, and Proctor & Gamble have all withdrawn from their programs at Davidson. The cost to the college of maintaining
the Dana Scholarships alone will be $40,000 a year, he said.
