Page Ten _October 16, 1970 The Davidsonian

ANALYSIS By JOHN FINE Staff Writer

Four men from different walks of life were featured in a leadership symposium Tuesday, sponsored by the ROTC department. But
from all indications, their performance on stage rather showed how not to lead.

Football coach Dave Fagg; Frederick McGlothlin, personnel director for Mecklenburg County; Ernest Fics, and Cpt. William M. Isom, assistant professor
of military science.

All the speakers emphasized the importance of preparation. There was

has brought four birds, nine faces, dots, a little color and much worth to the walls of the Chambers foyer.

TOO MANY COOKS (Staff photo by Strand)

Speakers talk but don’t practice leadership. Approximately 150 students, mostly ROTC cadets, read or languished listlessly in their seats while
conflicting descriptions were presented with varying cogency and conviction. No questions were asked by the audience or the panel.

Cadet brigade commander Art Rental Includes Birds, Faces

A REVIEW By CATHY ROSS Staff Writer

The Cocurricular Council

Whites play off against blacks, patterns twist and rebound, ultimately exploiting the tension between the mechanical birthing processes and the
breathing, laughing, yelling ink child. There is color—flippant in some squares and

The students’ rental collection at first seems a bit colorless, but the joy of the printing media (lithography, etching, woodcutting,
embossing, etc.) is in developing the subtle and the absence of color in the print called “Opus 16.”

Saturday, Oct. 17
4:00 p.m. Coach Fagg’s Post-Game Talk Morrison Room

Monday, Oct. 19
10:00 a.m. UNC Business School

Tuesday, Oct. 20
10:00 a.m. Don Wardlaw: “Stained Glass Clown and King” Blue Room
3:00 p.m. Soccer: Davidson vs. NC Wesleyan Here
3:45 p.m. Cross Country: Davidson vs. VMI & W/L Here
7:00 p.m. Film: “Don Quixote” Love Auditorium
8:00 p.m. “Celebration:” Don Wardlaw and Howard Hanger Trio Morrison Room

Wednesday, Oct. 21
10:00 a.m. CO Speaker: Bill Jefferies Morrison Room
12:00 a.m. Lunch Film Morrison Room
12:30 p.m. Mathematics Luncheon Blue Room
8:00 p.m. Fine Film: “The Cranes Are Flying” Love Auditorium

Thursday, Oct. 22
9:00 a.m. Duke Business School: Louis Volpp
10:00 a.m. Frank Getlein: “The Death of The Avant-Garde” Hodson Hall
4:00 p.m. Cross Country: Davidson vs. High Point
7:00 p.m. Volunteers for Mental Health Administration
8:00 p.m. Film Festival

Friday, Oct. 23
2:00 p.m. Football: Davidson vs. Wake Forest
3:00 p.m. Soccer: Davidson vs. Belmont Abbey

Saturday, Oct. 24
8:30 a.m. Graduate Record Exams
9:00 a.m. Area I Exam
11:00 a.m. Cross Country: Davidson vs. Citadel
1:00 p.m. Simulation Games: Blue Room
1:30 p.m. Football: Davidson vs. Wofford Spartanburg
2:00 p.m. Area II Exam Chambers
2:00 p.m. Sailing Knoxville
7:00 p.m. Concert: Mose Henry Morrison Room

Day-glo finds its way into the collection. A. K. Shields’ dots conspire quietly, the acidic green pattern slips your eye
out a little, then streaks it off the edges into the purple dots which disappear. Of the trilogy of woodcuts,
two are fairly traditional, effectively simple, but the third, “Wildflowers,” is nervous with shapes: craggy face and volcanic hair. “Urban
Sacrifice,” and “The Falling Temple,”Alumni Association last week elected two young men to key positions. John M. Trask Jr., '58,
was elected to the board of trustees, and W. Harrison Wellford, '62, was elected vice president of the alumni association.
Trask, one of the two youngest members of the board, was chosen to serve a four-year term. He recently completed
a one-year term as president of the alumni association. Wellford is currently executive vice president of the Center for Study
of Responsive Law, popularly known as "Nader's Raiders." Director of Alumni Affairs Howard A. Arbuckle cited Trask and Wellford as
examples of younger men who have succeeded in breaking the age barrier on the board and in the alumni association.
He said it is hard for young men to be elected because so many older men are candidates.

The alumni association also chose three other men to fill spots on the board. J. Dickson Phillips Jr., dean of
the University of North Carolina law school and vice president of the trustees, was reelected to a second four-year term.
Also reelected to a four-year term was Hubert N. Cannon, '53, a Rhodes Scholar at Davidson and assistant to former
North Carolina Gov. Terry Sanford. Julian L. McCall, '42, vice president of the First National City Bank of New York
City, was elected to a two-year term to fill a vacancy created by the death of Julian Clark, '27.

In addition to the trustees, the alumni association also elected its officers for the coming year. Former trustee chairman Walter
L. Lingle Jr., '28, was selected president. Lingle works as a business consultant and holds directorships in several corporations, including
Burlington Industries, Inc. He will take office one year from the date of his selection last week. Two vice presidents
begin their duties immediately. Champney A. McNair, '49, and Wellford will fill those spots.

OPEN HOUSE
The following homes will be open Sunday evening at 8:
Grant 560 Lorimer Rd.
Muthers Coffeehouse Theater
1225 Central Ave.
phone 376-7100
Folk Music, Blues, Drama
Cold Beer
Open 7 nights a week 6:30 to 12:00
Rock Bands Sunday only 15¢ bite
