Page Six. December 11, 1970

Text Of

ED. NOTE: As reported on page one, many of the fraternities have already decided or are deciding what response to
make to the fraternity reforms outlined by the “Committee of 18.” Because of the importance of these recommendations for the
future of social life at Davidson, THE DAVIDSONIAN is here publishing the complete text of the suggested reforms.

TEXT

The changes envisioned in the design of this program are aimed mainly at removing social, organized exclusion, and at making
a new non-exclusive social program work creatively and financially. It is hoped that all the main obstacles to a better
social program for Davidson have been covered. There are four possibilities as to what might happen to small group activity
on Patterson Court:

1. The fraternities might accept the college’s plan, keep their charters, and remain in their houses.
2. The fraternities might accept the college plan, lose their charters, but remain in their houses as locals.
3. The fraternities might refuse the college plan, keep their charters, and leave their houses on Patterson Court.
4. The fraternities might elect to cease operations, leaving their houses vacant.

There will probably be instances of all four situations on the court next year, and the college must be prepared
to meet each situation. However, for the remainder of this year and throughout next year, the chief concern of the
college must be directed primarily toward the first two possibilities and the need to guarantee the success of the houses,
both national and local, that elect to remain on Patterson Court.

The main thrust of these guidelines, then, will be directed toward ensuring the success of the new social program.

1. Over the Christmas Holidays, 1970, each freshman shall be assigned randomly to one of the twelve houses, to take
benefit of the social life of the house and to eat a lunch and an evening meal a week at
the house during the winter term. This is a part of the new orientation program for freshmen.
2. At the beginning of the spring term, each freshman shall be reassigned to a different house by means of
random selection, and he shall be allowed to take part in the social life offered and eat a lunch and
an evening meal a week at his house.
3. At the end of this year, each freshman, or upperclassman, who desires to do so, shall list his preferences
of houses with which he wishes to associate at the beginning of the next academic year.
4. For the remainder of this academic year no social organization occupying one of the twelve houses on Patterson Court
shall be required to admit freshmen to its meetings; however, on no condition shall certain freshmen be allowed to attend
the meetings while a freshman assigned to the house is excluded from such meetings.
5. The college wishes to maintain the officers of the houses on Patterson Court; their services as elected officials of
their houses will be vital during this transition period.
6. The college shall guarantee the continued employment of housemothers and cooks through the current academic year (June 30, 1971).

B. Financial:

The fraternity system, as it is presently constituted at Davidson College, should be eliminated as soon as a more adequate
social system can be devised to take its place.
Student Life Committee, June, 1970

Any house desiring the college to assume responsibility for financial obligations incurred prior to the present academic year, under point
four in the Trustee Resolution, must follow the regulations outlined below. (1-12).

1. The fraternity shall submit a list of receivables as of September 1, 1970, adjusted for collections subsequent to that
date.
2. A notice of the balance due shall be sent to each student. The student will be allowed 10 days
in which to take exception to the balance charged to him.
3. Any exceptions received shall be taken to the fraternity treasurer for substantiation and verification in order to determine the
correct balance.
4. Settlement shall be based on receivables collected.
5. The fraternity shall submit a list of payables as of September 1, 1970 adjusted for any payment subsequent to
that date.
6. Each vendor shall be asked to supply a statement of account to be compared with the amount submitted by
the fraternity.
7. Where discrepancies exist, the fraternity treasurer shall work with the Business Office to arrive at the proper balance.
8. The college shall not assume responsibility for payables incurred prior to September 1, 1970 if not included on the
list submitted.by the fraternity.

9. Cash and any other assets available at September 1 shall be turned over to the college in an amount
necessary to cover liabilities assumed or in total if not sufficient to cover liabilities, in the event that payables exceed
assets.

10. In case collections of accounts receivable subsequent to the effective date are in excess of payments of accounts payable
during the same period, the excess shall be paid to the college in cash, as part of the settlement.

11. In case payments of accounts payable made subsequent to the effective date are in excess of collections of accounts
receivable during the same period, the excess shall be reimbursed to the organization, as part of the settlement.

12. Current year losses shall be covered by assessments to members. Conditions pertaining to other financial matters are as follows:

13. The matter of furnishings shall be handled on an individual basis since ownership, conditions, debts, etc. vary between fraternities.
However, after debts have been paid, a fraternity may dispose of its furniture as it wishes.

14. It is felt that fraternity members should not benefit individually from the sale of furniture purchased from charitable donations
made in past years by alumni, parents, and students.

15. Should houses become vacant, the future use of the house shall be decided before refurnishing is considered. No refurnishing
shall be done before September 1971. Since the college has the obligation to furnish certain houses, it shall agree to
enter negotiations for purchasing furniture at the fair market value.

16. If the fraternity agrees to turn over its equity in furnishings to the college, the process shall start with
an inventory list prepared by the fraternity. Verification and mutually agreeable appraisal shall follow. The college will then make an
offer, ordinarily based on appraisal, and the fraternity can accept or reject the offer. If the house should accept, the
college would carry adequate fire and extended coverage insurance. Equity shall be paid at the time the college takes possession
of the furniture.

17. If furnishings are sold to the college at the appraised value, this amount shall be included in the net
settlement (I B 1-12).

18. If furnishings are sold to others, the proceeds will be included in this net settlement (I B 1-12).

19. In regard to board bills of this year’s freshman class, as established in I A 2, and I A
3, the college shall assume full responsibility and shall pay the value of meals eaten by freshmen in each house,
by direct negotiations with the house involved. Freshmen shall not duplicate meal payment.

20. In regard to the social program of this year’s freshman class, as established in I A 2, and I
A 3, the college (Continued On Page 7)

---

DATA PROCESSING MARKET REPRESENTATIVE

Here is an opportunity to earn money in your free time. Independent Data Processing Corp., an established data processing service
bureau, will provide you with the materials, training, and guidance to sell much-needed data processing service. You will earn commission
for one year on each contract you sell. As a representative of I.D.P., you will make contacts in your business
community; you will work with carefully prepared packages. When you have developed a prospect, a professional salesman will help you
close the sale. Your share is 15% of the sales contract, and a weekly expense allowance for travel. If you
are interested in this type of rare opportunity, contact:

Personnel Director
Independent Data Processing Corp.
Box 10234
Raleigh, N.C. 27605
(919) 834-0751 (collect)

---

Junior Year in New York

Washington Square College of Arts and Science of New York University sponsors a Junior Year in New York. The College,
located in the heart of the city, is an integral part of the exciting metropolitan community of New York City—the
business, cultural, artistic, and financial center of the nation. The city’s extraordinary resources greatly enrich both the academic program and
the experience of living at New York University with the most cosmopolitan student body in the world. This program is
open to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to which they will return for their degrees. There are
strong and varied offerings in many areas, such as fine arts, urban studies including non-European, mathematics in the College and
at the Courant Institute, psychology, and others. A qualified student may register for courses in all other schools of the
University, including the specializations in Commerce and Education. The University sponsors programs in Spain and France. Write for brochure to:

Director,
Junior Year in New York
New York University
New York, N.Y. 10003
