(Staff Photos by Lyle)

FROM OUT OF THE ORLANDO DARKNESS
Gordon Slade runs for yardage against Toledo

Sprint Strength Bolsters Davidson Indoor Season

With all the talk this winter of teams being run out of gyms, the one team taking that possibility most
seriously at Davidson is the indoor track team. Coaches Heath Whittle and Sterling Martin opened practice Tuesday for the three-meet
season. The first indoor meet is scheduled for VMI and the VMI Relays on January 31. Whittle indicated that there
is a possibility that Davidson will not compete in that meet because Tommy Richardson, a member of the Wildcats’ Southern
Conference champion 440 relay team, will be unable to practice in time for the relays. Other meets scheduled are the
Big 7 Meet at Chapel Hill and Southern Conference Indoor Championships, to be held in Lexington.

Whittle sees the team’s strength this year as the sprints where a deep and talented group returns. Rick Lyon, Richardson,
Carl Salcer, and Whit Morrow are the standouts of the group. The return of John Pu in German) from his
junior year middle distance is a valuable shot in the arm. Ray is looked to as a key performer in
jumps and the hurdles. Swetenburg also gives Whittle said that it is hard to predict the results of the indoor
season because the other schools frequently have the facilities for indoor track which the Wildcats miss.

By ERNIE SHIPE
Sports Writer

Before the Christmas holidays, John Pecorak must have been a pretty disappointed boy. In his first two games, the 6-6
center had contributed only 14 points and had been in constant foul trouble. Tuesday night was a completely different story.
John poured in 25 points and ripped off 18 rebounds. John’s quick rise is quite symbolic of the entire team’s
metamorphosis.

“Before the holidays we were a disappointing ball club," commented Coach Bo Brickles. “The team really changed after the break
and we're beginning to look like an impressive team. We're more stable now, particularly on defense.” According to Brickels, this
change has been common to him in his work with freshmen at Rice. “The hardest adjustment a kid has to
make is changing from high school to college basketball,” added Brickels. “The team really a boy up for a game
in high school, but when he gets into college more things enter into his life.”

The 100-76 win over Wingate placed all five of the Davidson starters in double figures. Ray Brown leads the Wildkittens
with a 19.3 average. Brown has been deadly from the field as he has connected on 50 percent of his
shots. The 5-9 guard from New Orleans was Davidson's first recruit and it appears the coaches have found a boy
who can direct the Wildcat's offense in the future. In all the games, Ray has shown considerable adroitness as a
ballhandler.

Following Brown in scoring is Joe Sutter. This highly touted forward from Marion, Indiana, has been one of the most
consistent and all-round members of the squad. Joe has hit on 22 of 44 shots while averaging 19 points and
11 rebounds. “Although he only scored 14 points against Wingate, Joe had his best game of the season,” commented Brickels.
“He played a particularly strong game on defense.” In high school, Joe led his team to a 28-1 record while
earning all-state honors for himself. He was also a member of the Indiana-Kentucky all-star game and was the recipient of
the Trestle Award, the second-best award an Indiana basketballer can earn.

A wing with striking similarities to Jerry Kroll, both in appearance and performance, is Gordon Graham. This freshman from Pella,
Iowa, boasts a 13.7 average with most of his field goals coming on long jumpers, shots much like Kroll. “Gordon
has not been shooting that well, but has shown he is an excellent shooter,” adds Brickels. “His shot selection has
not been that good and he also needs to improve defensively.” Davidson had to compete with Iowa and Drake for
Gordon's services. In high school, Graham scored at a 28-point clip. He is also a top-rate tennis player.

With his performance against Wingate, John Pecorak brought his average to 10 points per game. The strong center from Fairfax,
Virginia, is an excellent rebounder as he is averaging 10 per outing. Also, his 60 percent shooting ability has been
quite impressive. Bo Brickels hopes John has now found himself. “Tuesday night we were getting the ball to him which
we hadn't done before and he was going to the boards real well,” commented Brickels. John was one of the
most sought-after Davidson recruits as he considered offers from Tennessee, Rutgers, Seton Hall, Harvard, Delaware, Columbia, and William and Mary
before signing with the Wildcats. Earlier in the year, the coaches considered John could turn out to be one of
the year’s most pleasant surprises.

Davidson Freshman Team Adjusting To College Play

The fifth member of the Wildcat freshmen is George Brown. The guard from Springfield, Missouri, has averaged 10 points a
game. Another non-scholarship boy, Randy Ely of Durham, had an outstanding performance against Wingate as he hit on five-of-five field
goals late in the game.

RAY BROWN LOOKS FOR THE DRIVE
Freshman star surveys situation against Wingate.

Clearing The Desk
BY DON PARMAN
Sports Editor

The basketball season has proved to be an exciting one so far, with all the experts, and even myself, looking
forward to a wide-open scramble for the top spot, a refreshing change after the way Lew Alcindor and UCLA dominated
the game the last three years. South Carolina started off as number one and that lasted precisely until they met
Tennessee on the Gamecock’s home court. Tennessee parlayed a tenacious zone defense and only five players (hadn’t South Carolina seen
something similar to that recently?) into a one-point win. USC rooters were back to calling their team number one after
stopping North Carolina, but most people still need a lot more convincing. Meanwhile oldAdolph Rupp had his own brand of
Wildcats all set for another shot at the national title. But then Adolph Rupp always has his team all set
up for another title. The Kentucky boys, led by Dan Issel, beat North Carolina earlier to pass South Carolina when
the Gamecocks were toppled by the Vols. St. Bonaventure showed the nationwide television audience that there really are good big
men left, even without Elvin Hayes and Alcindor hanging around. Bob Lanier, big from the words size 19 shoes, dropped
in 50 points in crushing Rick Mount and Purdue. St. Bonny’s is unbeaten. Then there were the “up and down”
clubs. Davidson climbed toward the dizzying heights before losing to St. John’s and then nipping Georgia by only two. Ohio
University cashed in on Big Ten teams to rise to number five before getting gunned down by Texas. Marquette and
Duquesne dropped out of sight after early and frequent losses. Tennessee was dropped from the unbeaten ranks and the top
ten with their first loss. Just when it seemed that the sports writers would have to throw up their hands
in despair and concede that they might have to name a new number one team every week, along came Johnny
Wooden and his merry band of UCLAns to save the day. Meanwhile, the South Carolina Gamecocks have taken all the
chances they intend to take. No tickets have been made available for Davidson fans in the game between the two
teams in Columbia on February 11.

Gordon Slade, who has been on the receiving end of a lot of coaching there at Davidson, will take a
crack at giving the instructions himself this spring. Slade will serve as baseball coach in February until head coach Tom
Stevens finishes the swimming season. Slade will be shooting for his second Southern Conference batting title when the season gets
underway.

Smith Plans Offensive Design, Faster Football Team For Fall

Contrary to popular belief, Davidson head football coach Homer Smith is not off across the nation looking at head coaching
positions elsewhere, he's spending the winter in Davidson making plans for next year's squad which promises to be bigger, faster,
and better. When Frank Howard stepped down from the top spot at Clemson to full-time athletic director, it was said
that Smith was on the list to replace him. However, Smith has become widely known on the Davidson campus for
his dedication to the job. Smith said that he personally has no idea how the speculation started. “I was caught
in the middle of the situation,” said Smith. “If I were to resign, I certainly would not make a dramatic
production of it. It’s apparent that Clemson is not their man for the job.”

Three Key Losses Mar Stevens’ Swim Outlook

By BILLY COBB
Sports Writer

The Davidson College swimming team begins its fifth season under Coach Tom Stevens with a home meet against Clemson University
on Jan. 23, attempting to match last year’s record, an even 5-5 slate. However, Coach Stevens will be without the
services of several important individuals. Junior Bill Woodson, who was the top scorer last year, is still recovering from a
bout with mononucleosis and may miss the entire season. Also, the Wildcats will be without diver John Brawner and senior
letterman Ed Bartle, who both have decided not to participate this season. “Even though we will be weak in depth
and experience as a result of these losses, captain Mac Davis returns and will give us added strength in the
freestyles,” commented Coach Stevens. Davis, a senior from Jacksonville, Fla., holds the school records in both the 50 and 100-yard
freestyles. Doug Stott, a junior letterman returning from a year abroad, will offer strength in the butterfly. Other key returnees
include backstroke man John Cronin, breaststroker Kurt Geisinger, individual medley man Jim Wins, and sprinter Jim Newton. According to Stevens,
Newton, who is a junior from Atlanta, could really be a surprise this winter. Several freshmen who should help to
solve Coach Stevens’ depth problem are Luther Beazley, Scott Davidson, Walt Kruger, Matt Browning, Den Hague, and Hunter Brown.

Meanwhile, Smith is looking ahead to next fall's football team with a great deal of optimism. The biggest strong points
in the Wildcat outlook are the defensive unit, the experience of the offensive linemen, and the speed that next year's
squad promises. Despite the loss of several senior standouts, Smith said, “We could be better at every position next year.”
Biggest losses for the Wildcats are in the offensive backfield and at the offensive ends. All-Southern Conference performers Gordon Slade
and Mike Kelly will be gone. Biggest losses on the defensive unit will be Steve Butler and Whit Morrow. “The
defensive team will have to be better with all of that experience coming back. We lose Terry Esterkamp and Bill
Gammon in the interior line, but we'll still have a tremendous number of offensive linemen competing.” While Smith said, “We
can put a good team on the field with no sophomores,” a strong freshman team is being counted on, at
least for depth. Smith singled out Bill Garrett as particularly outstanding on the freshman team but pointed out that as
a team they had “good speed in the defensive backfield, good size in the front line, and an excellent quarterback
in Scotty Shipp.” The running back positions vacated by Hill and Zaharov could be difficult to fill. “Some runners are
going to have to do a lot of growing this summer,” Smith said. Smith indicated that the emphasis in spring
drills will be placed on giving several quarterbacks as much game-type experience as possible. This means more work in scrimmage-type
situations with the linemen learning their assignments. Smith reflected that the biggest regret about the past season was their failure
to design an offense which was better design-wise. “Our check-offs helped during the season, but we still had less than
the best offensive design possible. We needed it against Vanderbilt, Wofford, and William and Mary. You need something to go
to when the other team is outplaying you man for man for whatever reason. I think we can have that
design for next fall.” Smith predicted futures in professional football for several of the Wildcat seniors. Singled out were Slade,
Kelly, Hannen, and placekicker Ed Terry. “Hannen will make it because he’s a guy that you just can't cut. He
can play so many positions for you, running back or receiver. I don't think that George knows it yet, but
he could make it as a defensive cornerback.”

Smith also addressed the uncertainty surrounding the future of football on the Davidson campus, citing a de-emphasis of football as
one reason for the uncertainty. A more positive recruiting note is the fine record that the Wildcats compiled in the
past season along with their appearance in the Tangerine Bowl.

Dinner $1.25
Lunch Box $ .89
2 Pcs. of Chicken
2 Rolls
NEW YEAR’S SPECIAL
3 Pcs. of Chicken
3 Rolls
Potatoes, Gravy and Slaw
Potatoes, Gravy & Slaw
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken
503 S. Broad
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 664-1505

Spaghetti — La Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Phone 376-2576
(Located in the Wee Bid, off Remount Rd.)

LEARN TO DIVE
GET COLLEGE CREDIT

A college credit course in Scuba Diving will be offered on the Davidson campus this term. Use of Scuba equipment
and textbook included with course; students furnish their own mask, fins, and snorkel. The class will meet on Monday and
Wednesday evenings from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m. for nine weeks. Students completing the course will receive one hour of credit
in physical education. All interested persons are invited to an open meeting to be held in the Blue Room of
the College Union at 7:00 p.m. on Monday, Jan. 12. For additional information call Charlotte 333-5475 (Day) or JA3-4762 (Night).

SCUBATEER DIVER TRAINING
112 Sedgefield Rd.
$25.00
Charlotte, N.C. 2209
