SPENCER PROJECTS FOUR YEARS

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1970

AND THE ‘RUSH’ IS ON

(Staff photos by Davidson)

Freshmen wind up week-long orientation.

Officials To Delay Enforcement Of Restrictions On Refrigerators

By JOHN McLEAN
Associate Editor

College officials are expected to announce Friday that enforcement of the new rule against large refrigerators in dormitories will be postponed until next year. Mrs. Peter Nicholls, Director of Student Housing, decided that the new rule would be discarded after consultation with college treasurer Robert A. Currie and Residence Hall President Cecil Burney. Burney had objected to the new rule, saying he felt students should be allowed to keep refrigerators in their rooms and also small cooking appliances. Currie had said the registration of such appliances would create too many administrative problems, according to Mrs. Nicholls.

Students are to be advised of the rule revocation in a letter from Mrs. Nicholls Friday. The letter says, in part, that students may keep refrigerators of over 50 watts or 2 cubic feet in dorms only through this year. The letter also states that preparation of meals in dorm rooms is strictly forbidden. Mrs. Nicholls advised students not to buy new large refrigerators, since the rule will be in force next year. But at that time, she said, the Charlotte Chair and Equipment Rental Co. will be on campus to lease or sell students regulation size refrigerators. After this year, Mrs. Nicholls said, there will be no storage space available for oversized refrigerators in the rooms or storage areas.

The scuttled restrictions were made during the summer because of the increasingly large number of refrigerators and small cooking appliances being used by students, according to Mrs. Nicholls. Also, she said the wiring could soon be overloaded with the addition of more appliances. The old plan would have called for registration of all appliances. Each would be certified up on registration, and an inspection of rooms would be made periodically to find outlaw appliances. This plan was objected to by Currie because registration would have created “too many paperwork problems,” Mrs. Nicholls said. “The rule against large refrigerators remains college policy,” she said, but enforcement has been postponed until next year.

LARGEST CLASS EVER

CONVOCATION

The opening convocation will be held Monday at 11 a.m. in Love Auditorium. Former Atlanta mayor Allen will be guest speaker.

NUMBER ONE

Freshmen Begin College Careers

By RUSS MERRITT
Associate Editor

Amidst the fanfare of experimental coeducation, curriculum changes and revitalized freshmen dormitories, 291 freshmen survived the traditional orientation period for new students this past week. Several changes instituted by freshmen advisors Joe Smith and Herb Clegg were evident in orientation. Freshmen camp, held at Camp Thunderbird in recent years, was eliminated, and the orientation program was held in its entirety on campus. Also, the traditional lectures which have structured past orientations were removed from the program, with student-led discussion groups replacing them.

The freshmen, transfer students, foreign students, and 10 female exchange students began their Davidson experience last Thursday afternoon with a greeting from Samuel R. Spencer Jr., college president. Then after an afternoon of testing, the new students were treated to a picnic with the faculty followed by a keynote address by John M. Bevan, the new vice-president of academic affairs, on “Education at Davidson.” On Friday the freshmen were given a curriculum overview from Jay H. Ostwalt, college registrar, and attended “interest groups” in the afternoon to discuss with advisors possible courses of study. Spencer addressed the freshmen on Friday night, speaking to them on “Davidson 1970-1974; the President's View.” Saturday was highlighted by Bevan's second address, and by the annual mixer with the Queens freshmen. An open house in the freshmen dorms for the faculty members filled Sunday afternoon for the freshmen. Orientation periods on Monday and Tuesday were filled with short talks from student leaders on subjects such as fraternities, the honor system, and the Code of Responsibility.

Reactions to orientation were varied. Smith and Clegg, in charge of the program, saw it as being successful. “The freshmen and other new students were very responsive to the programs and to us,” Clegg said. “I feel personally that this freshman class is more mature and more prepared for college than some previous freshmen classes.” Freshmen in general seemed satisfied with orientation, although many felt that perhaps the program was too long. “There were several portions of the orientation that weren't needed, such as the lectures on the evils of alcohol,” one freshman commented. Attendance at orientation meetings, although not required, was high until the last few programs on campus activities.

Ex-SGA President Hobbie Employed As Administrator

JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer

After an active career in student government, Peter H. Hobbie returns with the title of Assistant to President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. As a special administrative assistant, former SGA President Hobbie is responsible for planning and coordinating public events, meetings of college-related groups, and visits of special guests, and liaison between the president and the students.

‘Continuing Community,’ Students Split At Parlay

AN ANALYSIS
By ED SHOAF
Editor-in-Chief

Meeting in Charlotte last Monday, a number of trustees, student leaders, administrators and faculty began to discuss some of the issues and problems facing Davidson in the coming year. The conversation was often hazy and more off the subject than on. No conclusions were sought or reached. Merely ideas and opinions were exposed which are certain to reappear in the campus rhetoric over the coming year.

Academic Vice President Stresses Experiences Outside Classroom

By RICH WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

A man of concern, a man of fascination, these are the first impressions of Davidson’s vibrant Vice President of Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. In an interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN this week, Bevan expounded on his educational philosophy as well as his personal feelings; however, he declined to comment on Davidson's present academic organization. “Since I haven't had time to evaluate and experience the courses here, I’m not ready to say what my aspirations are just yet. I think it is important to judge priorities before we spend a lot of money on things that have been long gone,” he said.

Bevan did, though, outline four areas where he hopes to concentrate his efforts. International study and career service will be two of these areas. Bevan said he thought that some career service programs should receive academic credit. “After all,” he said, “many students have questions that can and should be answered by working. Career service truly gives education breadth and depth. Not only are the students getting something out of this experience, but they are giving something as well. I get tired of professors telling their students that what they are studying in class will be important to the student sometime in the future. I've found that two-thirds of what was supposed to be important wasn't.” Bevan called for a balance between career service and classroom education. “In short,” he said, “I'd like to see outside experience validate classroom learning.”Davidson would include 150-200 students each year in the career service program. Independent study is another concern of the Academic Vice President. Bevan said he would like to see the student plan and organize his own course of study and then take it to the professor for approval. The professor would then judge whether the project is worth doing, whether the student is able to do it, and whether he (the professor) would be willing to evaluate the program. Once the professor approves, Bevan feels it is the student’s responsibility to do the rest. “Independent study doesn't cost much,” said Bevan, “and it really isn’t that time-consuming for the faculty. I think each professor could take on five or six students in addition to his regular teaching load.”

Interdisciplinary courses are also of prime concern to the former Davidson professor. “I think some students should have the opportunity for four years of interdisciplinary study rather than just two,” he said. Concerning the role of the college or university in society, Bevan feels that it must be continually critical, “Once the university stops being critical of society, soc- (See BEVAN, Page 4)

RIDING HERD ON FACULTY
Bevans starts work as first ‘academic vice president.’

Yet predicting campus topics was not the ultimate purpose of the meeting nor its importance to students back on the campus. Rather the discussions dramatically revealed the differences in presuppositions for opinions held by the parties in attendance. And the students or other interest groups must begin now in increasing dialogue and understanding if effective action on topics of major importance to Davidson is to be seen this year.

Underlying the entire series of talks was a concern with the sense of community that most participants agreed was vital to the existence of Davidson College. If a difference of opinion could be detected it was between those at Davidson part of the Continuing College Community (CCC), including everyone but students, and the students themselves. This difference was first seen in discussing the creating of a sense of community. The emphasis of the CCC seemed to be on an actual physical gathering of students as at meals or at required assemblies. Most seemed to agree that such gatherings of the body politic in the past had been responsible for the greatest sense of community. Student emphasis seemed more on the quality of the gathering rather than its quantity.

The Code of Responsibility, however, outweighed all other considerations of Davidson as a community. On the one hand was the feeling that the Code brought the students very close to harmful individualism while unifying the college as a responsible community. The position was taken that the Code is a document by students for students and should be maintained under a system of student enforcement. An opinion seemed to hold that if students could not be held to their own rules perhaps the sense of community demanded other forms of protection from individual license.

The student point of view seemed quite clear in viewing the Code as flexible in theory but inflexible in fact if the restrictions on drugs and open dorms are noted. It was consistent throughout the meetings that students sought more individual opportunity whether with regard to required gatherings or with regard to enforcement of rules. The student-CCC split was quite clear when it was noted that students condone massive drug violations and massive open dorms violations while the administration members who considered that the Code must be self-enforcing to be called successful also spoke.

Finally, the split in attitudes toward community appeared in student discussion of participation in policy making on the campus. One point of view was that present structures are actually not as bad as they are made to seem. It was held that radical changes in campus power would be neither legal nor practical. Students, on the other hand, argued that present conditions such as closed faculty meetings and paucity of student-faculty committees create (See CCC, Page 4)

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) will meet Monday to discuss details of a self-scheduled exams program to consider a trial plan this fall. Last May 25, the EPC passed a resolution to recommend to the faculty some form of self-scheduled exams on a two-year trial basis, setting as a target date the fall term of this academic year for the institution of the program. At that time, according to EPC student representative Danny Clodfelter, the issue was placed at the top of the agenda of things to discuss at the committee's first meeting Monday.

“The idea of self-scheduled exams involves two basic considerations,” said Clodfelter. “The first was whether the honor system could bear the strain of a self-scheduled exams program, and the second concerned the actual mechanics of the program.” Clodfelter added that last spring’s resolution solved the first problem, and that “the EPC feels that if the Honor Court informs the students of their responsibilities during the exam week, the honor system will survive.”

“What this resolution means is that the EPC is committed to the idea of self-scheduled exams. Now the committee must resolve the second question of the actual mechanics of the program.” These considerations are scheduled to be discussed at Monday's meeting. The committee will consider detailed proposals for the operation of the program. “I see no reason why we can’t have the program in operation for this fall’s exams,” he added.

Under the proposed system, a student would be allowed to take any written final examination in class whenever he chooses during the exam week. The original SGA proposal would require Senate and Honor Court members to distribute and collect exams between certain set hours. Responsibility for following the exam procedures, including responsibility for scheduling mistakes or violations of the examination period, would rest with the student himself, and he would have to take the consequences for any infraction.