Page Six April 24, 1970

The Davidsonian

Bevan Talks At Phi Beta Kappa Meeting, Says Students’ Preference Must Be Heard

Noting the convergence of student concerns and the concerns of America’s most depressed social groups, newly appointed Academic Vice-President John M. Bevan said Wednesday that it is time student preferences were heard. Speaking to Phi Beta Kappa initiates and members of the college community, academic vice president-elect Bevan said that before students can be heard it is vital to know their most basic concerns.

Bevan outlined the student situation as he saw it and attempted to show how they presented an unprecedented challenge to American education. The student scene, Bevan said, is characterized by a sense of ‘overwhelming concern.’ Evidences of this feeling are concerns about overpopulation, technological ravaging of nature, prodigal use of natural resources, urbanization, cybernetics, racism, and armaments.

Unfortunately, these concerns have trapped students in conflicts with the ultimate powers in colleges and universities. “The student was led to believe,” Bevan said, “that learning in college would be exciting, but he finds he has to look for excitement in peripheral activities.” The student finds little inquiry, purpose, and community in higher education. He is trapped between dogma and skepticism and finds that he gets his degree if he learns to play the proper tune. The college does not give him a chance to develop a philosophy of life.

The problem of the student is that he has learned that if he tries to change conditions through proper channels his words are drowned out by bigger and better machines. He has learned that editorializing and shouting are not enough, says Bevan. As a result, students have demanded and now command attention. The new purpose of the student, Bevan said, is to strengthen the university. The job of the community of education is to heed that purpose.

Bevan went on to outline some of the most important changes suggested by students. First, they demand a revitalized educational program including interdisciplinary value dialogue. If universities and colleges are truth-seeking institutions, it is important to consider what truths and values should be sought. It is the concern of students.

HERE THEY COME AGAIN

As spring comes, so does ROTC drill. Cadets here are going through the paces. Imagine that of a ‘40-yard crawl’ and... bullets were whistling past your head...

Fraternities In Crisis

(Continued From Page 1)

According to Cutchin, there is no real ideological split or financial trouble at the house, but the departure of the house’s leaders, not having anyone as capable to succeed them, will cause personality rifts. The Sigma Nu house has also shown that only 29 members will begin operation next fall, with 27 at the most. The Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, although slightly gaining financially, may have already dealt a death blow due to a small membership from bad rushes. According to Zack Mobley, the Pi Kaps’ IFC representative, the house, although in a state of flux, will have 25 members to begin next year. Financially, Mobley said, the house will not finish the year in the black, but it is not in any immediate financial trouble as many had assumed.

A curious case is the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. The SPEs have lost eight members this term, seven of them sophomores, having certain problems with their pledge class. Presently, the Sig Ep membership stands at 53 active brothers, with 68 expected at the house next fall. It is interesting to note that the SPEs, who were the envy of the general student elections for officers, have already lost the editor and associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, a class president, and a Phi Beta Kappa member, with recent inactives having a cumulative grade point average of 3.6.

The troubles at the Sigma Chi house have been expounded many times now. The present national brothers have no pledges and therefore are going to be desperate for a good rush next year. The present membership of the house is 28, with 25 members expected to begin next fall. There are no longer any financial problems at the house, according to treasurer Norm Hurwitz.

The membership at the other houses on the court, although reduced slightly from previous years, is not falling so rapidly. The SAEs, Phi Delts, Kappa Sigs, ATOs, Pikas, Phi Gamms, and Betas, although several of them are in some financial trouble, have felt no great membership loss this year, totaling approximately 312 members now and around 363 next fall.

The Davidson fraternity system, as the facts relate, is in the beginning pangs of a real crisis. But perhaps these pangs are in reality birth pangs, the first harbingers of deep reform and long-needed changes within the system. After all, it has already been demonstrated that change will have to come from within by conspiracy.

Martin Will Join Honors Faculty

Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston announced Tuesday the appointment of Associate Professor of Chemistry J. G. Martin to the faculty of the Honors College. Martin will replace Physics Professor Locke White Jr. in the Honors College position while White is on leave next year.

The Honors College will begin operation next fall with a complement of four faculty and about 20 students. Students who have filed for admission to the Honors College are viewed by the Honors College faculty: Associate Professor of Philosophy MacCormac, English Professor Frank W. Bliss, and Assistant Professor of Economics Robert L. Avinger. About 35 students have applied for admission to the Honors College, out of which about 20 will be chosen on the basis of their evidenced academic capabilities, feasibility of their educational proposals, and the ability of the Honors College to devise such a program.

Hungry I Features Folk-Pop ‘Mara’

The folk-pop quartet “Mara Loves” will be featured performers at the Hungry I coffeehouse next week from Monday to Saturday. The group, consisting of two men and two women between the ages of 19 and 25, met at a folk festival in Canada and developed a repertoire of many popular songs plus a few of their own compositions. Some of their favorite numbers include “Eleanor Rigby,” “Time For You To Go,” “But You Know I Love You,” and “Melancholy Philadelphia.”

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT, JOHN McLEAN
Sports Editor: STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor: JOHN DAVIDSON
Photography Editors: BILL LYLEBevan stated that human relationships, problems, and destiny should be actively pursued in the course of education. Students have found that existing course structures are too restrictive for this quest and are asking for reformulations of academic structure. Second, Bevan said students see programs in community involvement as part of any academic revitalization. Students think that they should engage and learn about problems rather than ignore them. They want guidance to help education while being part of the very living. Other demands include more individual educational planning, more knowledge of foreign cultures, and more fine arts. Institutional government ultimately in the company of the most high. The challenge presented by student concerns is to make college a process of inclusion.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SPRING TERM 1969-1970
Saturday a.m. June 6 p.m.
Monday a.m. 8 o'clock June 8 p.m. 11
Tuesday a.m. June 9 o'clock classes p.m. 9 o'clock classes 10 o'clock classes 12 o'clock classes
Wednesday a.m. 2 o'clock classes June 10 p.m.
Thursday a.m. 3 o'clock classes June 11 p.m. 4 o'clock classes
Morning exams are given at 9; afternoon exams at 2, in the regular classroom for the class.

This gives unprecedented opportunity to institutions of higher education. These are opportunities that must be met across the nation and, Bevan implied, especially at Davidson if colleges are to remain the custodians of the community's mind and spirit. Never before, Bevan said, has there been a more competent and concerned body of students. Never before has there been more of a desire to be a part of the solutions and less a part of the problems of the world. Never before have colleges had such important challenges and opportunities to increase their viability.

In American National Faith
By BILL ESKRIDGE
Staff Writer

Otts Lecturer Colin Williams, dean of the Yale Divinity School, delivered a series of lectures this week on America’s religious myths and its destiny. Williams opened his talks with an analogy between the faiths of his native land, Australia, and America. “While Australia’s church membership has been steadily declining in recent years, the church membership has been rising in America, which shows how pivotal religion has become to Americanism. For instance, when John Kennedy was killed, the people turned to the church; the same was true after the death of Martin Luther King.”

Following this analogy, Williams brought up the concept of the American myth of rational faith. He started with drawing out a historical perspective for the American myth. “New England is the center for the incipient American faith. Men like Governors Bradford and Winthrop set the pace for this. Then, a sense of mission was spread throughout the land by the religious fervor of many of the early settlers. American history became a battle for the American soul. The period of the American Revolution continued this trend in American development by the emphasis on divine Providence and nature’s God by the Founding Fathers. As America further developed, the church accepted the role of dealing with the private faith of the American people. For this reason, American churches became individualistic and pluralistic. Because the unity of the church was not necessary for the unity of the nation, the churches split into multifarious different factions.”

Williams noted that the nation continued to interpret the destiny of the nation along religious lines. He continued, “The church worked with the private faith of the people, and the church and the nation developed the public faith of the people. America does not have a national church, but it does have a national religion, with documents such as the Constitution at the center.”

(Staff photos By COLIN WILLIAMS)
Otts Lecturer notes rise in Americans’ religion.

Williams Analyzes Conflict
These notions from England. Ideas into two areas of analysis.

June 12 - Sept 8 NYC/Amst/NYC VERY FEW cite
Call 919-933-5271 Betty Saunders Chapel Hill, N. C.

American life became a FABULOUS International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead PIZZA Davidson, N. C.

ROBERT T. STONE, District Agent Announces The Association Of SID COTTINGHAM GUY JETER As College Agents THE NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY MILWAUKEE

DON PARMAN Circulation Managers HOWARD RAMAGLI GREG SCOTT News Editor SCOTT DAVIDSON Assistant Managing Editors GRAY WILSON RICHARD WILSON Photographers SAM RAMACHANDRAN GEORGE THOMAS Staff Writers Jeff Allender, Bill Beckman, Ron Crockett, Bill Davenport, Bill Eskridge, John Fine, Dan Graham, Rick Hart, Don Hoyt, George Kaneklides, Tom Sinks. Sports Writers Howard Boyd, Rick Bush, Billy Cobb, Dick Downey, and Charlie Terrell.

Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. Phone 892-2111 Davidson, N.C. Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — PARKS REXALL DRUGS Sunday 9:30 to 10:30 131 N. Main St. Cosmetics

INDEPENDENT YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT WILKINSON BLVD. ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Happiness is what I bring to your life. Graduate Student financial worries so you can “live a little.” You find this happiness through our special cash-value life insurance plans for Seniors and Graduate Students. Let us help you with your financial worries so you can “live a little.” You find this happiness through our special cash-value life insurance plans for Seniors and Graduate Students.

Frank A. Felton, Jr.

SRA STUDENTS: SEE EUROPE The way you want to see it... with a tour planned FOR STUDENTS ONLY. Spend 21 to 65 days with expert, multilingual European guides. Let us help you with your travel plans. We can assist you on all Domestic & International Travel Plans. Call Pat or Jack Trexler — 892-1643

WANTED: Student & Faculty Representatives