HOLLAND EVALUATES WILDCAT PROGRESS INDEPENDENT RUSH ATTACKED

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1970

NUMBER TWELVE

Usual Number Of Freshmen Join Despite Hobbie’s Anti-Rush Blitz

By BILL LINEAWEAVER
Staff Writer

This year's fraternity rush is over, and 299 freshmen, 84 per cent of the Class of 1973, have pledged a fraternity. Dan Herd, President of the IFC, released IFC rush statistics Wednesday night. The figures revealed that 246 freshmen, 88.38 per cent of a class of 277, went out for rush. Of the 246, 229 had pledged a fraternity. 17 of the freshmen out for rush either were on extended rush, did not accept a bid, or did not receive a bid.

“It was a very normal rush,” said Herd. “Many people have been saying it was pretty painless this year, although I suppose it could never be completely painless. Anyway, the overall percentages were about the same as they were for previous years.”

Referring to the campaign sponsored by some Davidson students to saturate the freshman class with literature giving what SGA President Peter Hobbie called “an objective view with a negative slant” on fraternities, Herd said that there was not a way of measuring any effects the effort may have had. “Statistically, practically no difference over last year,” Herd said. “There has been some effect on the minds of the people down at the court, and many more people this year seem to have taken serious note of the position of social affiliate. Perhaps the major difference this year has been an increased overall campus trend that has certainly not been pro-fraternity.”

Hobbie said that in evaluating the campaign of rush literature “it should be remembered that our aim was not to make Independents. I have talked to freshmen and fraternity men during rush, and I am convinced that we succeeded in raising questions about the system that will surface again and again. The results of our activities will probably be really felt when this year's freshmen get an inside look at the fraternities.”

(Mentioning last year's freshmen, the first class exposed to a “look at the other side of fraternities” campaign, Hobbie pointed out, “Last year everybody joined, but since the class has gotten a good look at the system, it has produced some of the most serious questioners of the system.”)

Hobbie's contribution to the printed barrage aimed at rush this year was a booklet entitled “A Freshman's Guide to Rush.” He maintains that the material used throughout the booklet was “correct as far as we knew. We chose to write it up in a negative style, however, to make it more readable. We knew that the fraternities would provide enough of their own slant to more than compensate for anything we did.”

REYNOLDS LECTURER PAUL HUME
Music critic examines arts in America

Paul Hume Lectures About U.S. Art’s Financial Crisis

By DAN GRAHAM
Staff Writer

Paul Hume, music critic for the “Washington Post,” summed up his remarks at the Wednesday night Reynolds lecture by saying, “I don't want us to miss what is coming in art because we can't pay for it.” The extent of the crisis in art, indicated by the 7 million dollar deficit of America's 5 major symphony orchestras, is equalled only by the excitement and the ferment going on in art, he said.

An article Hume quoted contended that the problem confronting those working in music, as well as the other fine arts, is one of finance and a rapidly changing culture: “the old longhairs don't support it, and the young longhairs don't dig it.” In fact, a definitive study carried out by two Princeton researchers has pointed out

W.E. Jackson Announces Plans To Run For Congressional Seat

By JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer

Endeavoring to challenge the formerly invincible position of Republican Congressman Charles R. Jonas, Assistant Professor of Political Science William E. Jackson announced recently that he would run for the Congressional nomination in the Ninth district of North Carolina on the Democratic ticket.

Jonas, who was first elected to his seat in the fall of 1952 and survived congressional redistricting, has been described as an “arch conservative” while Jackson characterizes himself as having “progressive ideas,” along the lines of late President John F. Kennedy.

Although many observers have commented on the difficulty of the task of ousting a man with the seniority that Jonas possesses, Jackson sees his election as being well within reach. “Based on what I've been hearing, my chances are better than I thought they were. I've been buoyed by the diverse range of people I've heard from.”

Jackson says he has heard from many groups, among them the reformed Democrats who “now have a democratic candidate they can respect.” He also claims support from young professional people, who were never before active in campaigns. “These people say, ‘he articulates that concern we all have.’” Young Democrats organizations are also being counted on, and he has even heard from individuals who say they have been active in Young Republican activities, but have not been happy with Jonas’ “negative approach” to politics, Jackson claims.

Candidate issues

Jackson is also counting on the traditional Democratic fundraisers in the area. Several of these “Checkbook Democrats” have commented, he said, that a strong opponent for Jonas would force him to come back and campaign more vigorously, thus helping lesser Republican candidates, but have said if he was determinedTo run, they'd support him. Jackson also hopes that the remains of the group supporting Eugene McCarthy’s presidential campaign in 1968 will fall in behind him. “I very much want to give a positive approach to my campaign,” Jackson said. “I have ideas, and I want to present them and bring attention to what I stand for. This will be the focus of my campaign. Only incidentally do I want to refer to the voting record of my opponent. I won't myself to Charley personality and character, which I feel is shipshape. Where between address Jonas’ controversy — be what people think of his voting record, and what it really is, appears, that I would not hesitate to point out to voters what those cases are.” He cited as an example Jonas’ reputation as being a fiscal conservative. “His answer to everything is ‘Balance the Budget’,” Jackson said. “That way, there is no imagination involved in trying to solve real problems. On December 20 of last year, he (Jonas) voted to give $54.5 million to Chiang Kai-shek. The President and Secretary of State, both Republicans, said that those funds were not needed. On December 22, he voted against increases in funds for education, pollution control, and medical research. This is an excellent example of what I mean by contradictions of his ‘fiscal conservatism,’ and a warped sense of national priorities. The focus must be principally on domestic problems—we cannot be the world’s policemen and also effectively deal with domestic situations for Chiang and the problems at home. I feel that Conservative and Liberal eng the Modern the free about th (See JACKSON, Page 4)

industry. Only about 1% percent of all Americans regularly participate in and give support to the arts. But new developments in informal concerts, electronic music, and better quality music reproduction in the home promise an increased interest in music. “Before habits of concert-going change, habits of performing will change,” he predicted. He mentioned performers who are now giving concerts in business suits, discarding white tie and tails, and sometimes traditional strictures of decorum. Hume is distressed by talk that since America must establish priorities in this age of crying need, attention to the arts can be deferred. He agrees with the thesis of Sir Herbert Read's recently published book “The Arts and Man”: The arts are “a vital, necessary part of society without which we do not exist as fully as we could,” he contends. He has long called for government support of the arts, pointing out that since the federal government has become so intimately connected with our lives in many other fields, there is no reason why it should abstain from subsidizing an area as important as the nation's cultural life. Hume also feels that industry should contribute heavily to the arts, commending such companies as Nieman-Marcus for their generous grants, but suggesting that most corporations could do much more towards a healthy cultural environment. As for developments in his field, Hume said, “We are in one of the most challenging, changing, revolutionary times in the history of music. We are hearing music which is being composed for the space age.”

COBLE OPIE PARRIGIN

Opie & Parrigin Plan Presidential Race Fine, Rowland, Shoaf Contend For Editorship

By RUSS MERRITT Staff Writer

The role of fraternities at Davidson, the revision of present trends in student government, and the office of the SGA Presidency itself appear to be the focal points in the campaign for President of the Student Government Association. At least this is the impression given in the platforms of each of the three candidates for the position. The platforms are as diverse as the candidates themselves. The trio of candidates are Tom Opie, a well-known politician and Vice-President of the SGA; Ran Coble, a crusader for campus reforms; and Lyman Parrigin, a relative unknown and by his own admission the dark horse of the election. Opie, once considered the protégé of the outgoing SGA President, Peter Hobbie, has recently come into his own as a student leader. As SGA Vice-President he has been Resident Hall Council President, chairman of the Senate general affairs committee, and a member of the executive, educational, and finance committees. According to Opie, he has been “active in the successes and some of the mistakes of student government,” and therefore has the experience that will enable him to make a unique contribution in the student government. The theme of Opie’s campaign is the “quiet revolution.” According to Opie, daily open dorms, late-night study in Chambers, and the new lounges and furniture in the dorms manifest the “quiet revolution.” “The college has been muddling through long enough in social and educational areas,” Opie said, impatient for change.” Opie supports the elimination of disadvantages of the fraternity system. “I feel the one hundred percent bidding system and a stronger Union will help alleviate the fraternity problem.” Concerning the student government and the office of presidency, Opie feels that many activities that diverted the president's time and energy this year, such as excessive concern with national issues, should be avoided. “Student funds should be used for relevant projects,” he contended. Parrigin has had no experience in Davidson student politics, yet feels he has as good a chance in the election as either of his opponents. “I consider myself the Phil Hazel of this election,” he has said. Hazel was the dark horse of last year’s election, and ran a surprisingly close second to Hobbie. “I support the fraternity system at Davidson,” Parrigin states in his platform. “I am against the trend towards making students feel they need to excuse their membership in fraternities.” Parrigin is the only supporter of the fraternity system among the candidates. Parrigin wants to end the reign of “a small group of students in the student body who perpetuate only the point of view to the detriment of the majority of the students. “The office of SGA President has been inflated beyond its intended scope,” Parrigin says. “The SGA President should not have the power to indulge his personal beliefs unchecked.” The third candidate for the presidency, Ran Coble, says that the main thrust of his ideas are devoted to the principle that too often students are not properly represented in the student government. Coble calls for more representation in more areas including on the Board of Trustees, on the Admissions Committee, and in departmental meetings. Less academic rigidity is another item in Coble’s platform. He would like to see more flexibility coming from interdisciplinary courses similar to Humanities and Unified Science, a system of self-scheduled exams which he has studied as head of the Educational Reforms Committee and the establishment of an Experimental College. Another item in Coble’s platform of concern for the students is the establishment of an Ombudsman Panel to meet once a week and act on student complaints or questions. Coble, currently a hall counselor, has served as president of the Belk RHC and in the SGA Senate as a member of the Senate Executive Committee. The general format of the newspaper seems to be the major concern of the three candidates for editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Ed Shoaf, presently the managing editor in charge of news for the paper, hopes to turn THE DAVIDSONIAN into an eight-page tabloid both for news flexibility and for financial savings. His major concern is the proposed radio station and its impact on news reporting. “It is my intention that the newspaper should meet successfully the challenge the radio station will present to it,” Shoaf said. Paul Rowland, an associate editor for the paper, has been writing professionally (See CANDIDATES, Page 4)

EDMONDS AND CURLEY AT THEd: Stand-up comics Edmonds and Curley are currently performing at Davidson’s Hungry Coffeehouse. The pair, who also appeared Wednesday on the Johnny Carson show, will give two shows nightly through tomorrow, beginning at 7:30 p.m. (Staff Photo by Davidson.)