The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

EO SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
OCTOBER 2, 1970

Final Fraternity Action

It is gratifying to be able to report at last that Davidson’s fraternity system seems destined for immediate and radical reform. With the public support of President Spencer, the recommendations of the Student Life Committee (SLC) which were meant by that group to be the definitive guidelines for change may actually be implemented as final.

Our only reason for caution is that the group with the real power to change anything at Davidson, that is the trustees, will not conclude the issue for another two weeks. It is to this homecoming meeting that all proponents of effective change must direct their efforts. The time before that meeting must be used to the best advantage to promote the current recommendations.

For these proposals have much in their favor. They offer an immediate outline of change, but it is a plan which allows adequate time for resolving problems which might arise. It has been said by some in response to the reports that a random distribution of freshmen into eating clubs will never be a workable solution to present problems. However, with evidence that such systems work elsewhere, the attitude to be taken is one that asserts that the method must be made to work. We have been given a final, authoritative, and well-justified program of reform, and now is no time to suggest that the search for an ideal system should be continued.

It is important to realize that the initial reform of the fraternities is not the final aspect of the SLC report even though that is by far the most important aspect of the plan for present students. The reforms continue long after that day when Davidson’s last student fraternity member has faded from the scene. Ultimately, the goal (and it seems to be a most worthwhile goal) is for integration of social and residence hall life. But even looking that far in the future we must join the SLC in keeping one eye to reforms in the present. The chance is before us. Surely we can do more, as Dr. Spencer said, than sit by and wait for total disintegration.

Ideas Worth Noting

In approaching issues of change with regard to fraternities or other issues on this campus it seems valuable to reemphasize several points made by Dr. Spencer in the conclusion to his address Monday. Basically, Spencer noted that colleges must remain somewhat better than and somewhat above the society whose ideals we seek to promote. The campuses of the world and this campus must remain sanctuaries of reason and rational disagreement in a society where these qualities are fast eliminated by the polarization of closed minds. For if colleges are to be effective liberal and educational forces in a world that needs these forces as badly as ours does, the colleges cannot allow themselves to join the society in its shortcomings. We cannot allow ourselves to succumb to the influences of intolerance and disrespect which make most impossible. We cannot let ourselves be blinded by the lack of perspective that binds society to false solutions and tired ideas.

Yet this need for perspective applies to issues endemic to the campus as well as to the broader issues of society. Only when we can see our own problems relative to the larger problems of life and society will we be able to treat them without exaggeration and with a rationality that precludes unnecessary strife. And only when campuses make it clear to the world that the method of reason is their approach will they regain the confidence that their leadership requires of society. Without this leadership, colleges and their members are needlessly frustrated in their pursuit of ideals. Yet without this pursuit of ideals, society can never prosper.

PAUL ROWLAND

Maybe Randomization

Charlotte and Davidson have more in common than you think. You see, Charlotte is one of those places where many of (if not most) of the restaurants (including especially the Italian and kosher ones) are run by Greeks. Up until recently, ‘Greeks’ ran the major food services for Davidson upperclassmen. Lately though, spiraling operating costs and accompanying bill increases have forced those in precarious financial states to adopt less expensive diets. And some were just tired of the menu. This in turn has reduced the revenue collected by the college from active fraternity members; overcrowded Kleeburg’s Union facilities; increased electrical bills and the possibility of fire from dorm cooking; and boosted the Coffee Cup's business. In the midst of the Bursar’s headaches even Darvon couldn't ease, the Student Life Committee has released its recommendations in an attempt to cure everyone's indigestion with Davidson’sfraternity situation. The SLC has recommended, with President Spencer's qualified endorsement, that the Greek restaurants be phased out with gradual replacement by a new chain. The proposed restaurant chain should solve more problems than it creates. We hope. But we'll have to spend a fortune on black ink for the business office; the data processing center will have to program the random assignment of the new chain's clientele and produce a billing system; and the Coffee Cup will have to learn to live without students' business. The really sad thing about it all is the loss of atmosphere. Without the quaint, squiggly letters, the houses just won't be the same. Randomization is likely to destroy the flavor of each house’s clientele. What will happen when we split up close-knit groups of jocks, eggheads, hotdogs, flits, cool guys, clods, and other common bonds found in each freshmen class? And think how dull Fall will be without upperclassmen sneaking around rush rules to get buddy-buddy with freshmen they want to be brothers. It's too bad we couldn't have salvaged some sense of community by inaugurating a massive food service independent of Will Cure Greek Heartburn in the basement of Chambers. That way all the old cliques could have been preserved and no one would have been omitted. Do I think the new plan will work? I ain't sayin’ yep. I ain't sayin’ nope. But maybe.

DICK ANDERSON

Will Nasser’s Death Help?

Paradoxically, neither nation can be sure it benefited. Nasser once mentioned that Egypt moved in three circles in the world; the same was true of him. His personal three circles were Egypt, the Arab world, and the so-called anti-imperialist movement. In each of these circles, Nasser was a leading figure (indeed the leading figure in two) and in each, the United States was perceived as a main enemy. Yet the United States can afford to have enemies, even needs them; what the U.S. could and cannot afford is instability in these areas. And in each, Nasser was a major force for stability.

ANDERSON

Especially, the Middle East is an odd area in which the security of Israel and other American interests are frequently best maintained by the counterbalancing of various hostile powers. Nasser balanced against the Soviets, defending the American interest that the Soviets not dominate the area, and he counterbalanced against his allies, but not friends, the Baathist parties of Syria and Iraq. Both of these roles were essential to the furtherance of American policy in the Middle East. At present, in that part of the Arab world, there is no leader in the Russian-aided countries who has shown himself capable of remaining fairly independent while accepting their aid. Nasser possessed prestige independently of his Soviet helpers, but especially the Syrian leadership can throw much less weight around among the Russians.

Nasser's enmity toward the Baathists, whose Egyptian branch he outlawed, may well have been a major factor in his general support for Jordan's King Hussein. The Baathists profess the ideology of radical socialism and have shown continued enmity toward the conservative Hashemite monarch—the invasion by the Syrian-sponsored Palestinian Liberation Army last week is an example—but since the days of Syrian participation in the United Arab Republic, they have also resisted their fellow socialist, Nasser. Nasser’s efforts to construct peace in Lebanon and more recently in Jordan halted Syria’s penetration of these countries, which are among the few governments in the area potentially friendly to the United States.

Nasser’s death also takes him out of the Egyptian equation, leaving only the army and the Soviets as the major actors. Whether the army, which is dependent on Russian arms and leadership, can represent Egyptian interests against the Russians seems highly doubtful. About the only area in the scene for the Israelis is that both Egypt and the Arabs have lost their leader and will for a time flounder while deciding the successor. The Soviets will be attempting to consolidate their hold over the new Egyptian leaders, while the Syrians, the Soviets, and the Palestinian guerillas decide on a new pecking order. Israel should get a respite in the meanwhile, but it will not get a peace treaty, as all parties to the intra-Arabic conflict dare not propose such a radical step; eventually, the Israelis may face a more determined, reckless foe than the essentially cautious Nasser. When President Nasser of Egypt died Monday, the United States and its lone Near Eastern ally Israel lost an important figure.