“Page Two "December 11, 1970: ore SET ae * Sh , ve iy =O i yi ee ater Sok Aas
Sai Ye tists” Fe ... Variety Of Options Chosen (Continued From Page 1) remain in their house for the rest
of the year, according to Jack Caldwell, fraternity president. “The fraternity members wanted to protect what they have because they
feel they have profited from and enjoyed the fraternity experience and wish to maintain the selective process,” said Caldwell.

The fraternity made no plans beyond the end of this academic year, according to Caldwell. Phi Gamma Delta voted to
accept the college plan, according to Charlie Parks, fraternity president, but the decision as to whether they will retain their
charter will be made by the national organization. “I am not sure the charter issue is this chapter's choice to
make,” said Parks. “Although our national has not made a decision yet, I am not optimistic that they will allow
us to keep our charter. Our national was upset about the whole thing. They even encouraged us to go off
campus. But there is a large faction in the fraternity that like the new proposal and want to remain in
the system,” he said.

Pi Kappa Alpha President Gary Cash said that his fraternity met with two directors of the national organization this week
and that the Pika’s will vote on the college’s proposal Monday. “The national directors who came down this week realize
the situation in which this fraternity is involved,” said Cash. “They recognize that we are not trying to fight the
national organization, but rather that we are trying to work out the best thing we can under the system imposed
by the college.” Cash said that the national directors gave their endorsement for Pika’s to keep their charter under the
new system but the final decision will be made by the Supreme Council of the national organization. “We decided to
wait to vote on the college’s proposal in order that each member could evaluate the comments made by the national
representatives,” said Cash. “I believe that whatever this chapter decides, the national will be as lenient as they can. They
understand we are under pressure from the college.”

Pi Kappa Phi voted to accept the college plan and remain in their house; however, they were to consider the
question of their charter last night, according to Fraternity President John Barbee. “As the situation now stands, the college plan
is in direct violation of the national constitution, but the national fraternity is contemplating a change in these rules,” he
said. “Basically we like Spencer’s proposal to eliminate selectivity. We have been against this for the last two or three
years,” Barbee said.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon voted unanimously to accept the college plan, keep their charter, and remain in their house, according to
Ted Ravenel, fraternity president. Ravenel noted that the national organization will act on a proposal this summer which would allow
for a simple plurality vote of the members in order for a person to receive a bid. “A national representative
said that the anti-fraternity movement on other campuses; consequently the national organization may agree to the college plan as a
sort of experiment,” said Ravenel.

Bevan Addressed Asian Meeting By JIM HANNA Staff Writer John M. Bevan, academic vice-president, is in Hong Kong attending a
planning session for the second All-Asian Conference in Higher Education. Bevan, who was chairman of the Conference’s first meeting two
years ago, will also attend the second meeting, to be held next summer. While in the Orient, Bevan will tour
various countries and “look at universities in Asia as possible points for Davidson students to study in years to come,”
said Earl Lawrimore, director of the news bureau. Lawrimore said that Bevan will look at universities in Taiwan, and make
a formal request to the Indian government for an exchange program between Davidson and schools in India. Bevan, who left
Davidson last Saturday, will spend Christmas in Tokyo and return to this country Dec. 28. In his absence, Dean F.
W. Johnston is acting academic vice-president.

Pauthconan Staff Chief Associate: PAUL ROWLAND Associate Editors: DICK ANDERSON, RUSS MERRITT, JOE SMITH Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT, DON PARMAN
Sports Editor: ERNIE SHIPE Assistant Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD WILSON Copy Editors: JEFF ALLENDER, STEVE CROSS Contributors this week:
Peter Michael, Alec Hoon, Doug Brown, Ken Parks, Jim Hanna, Dave Hanig, Cathy Ross, and Windy March News Editor: SCOTT
DAVIDSON Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE Ass’t Sports Editors: JOE EARLE, A. W. TURNER Cartoonists: J. B. FAWCETT, ZACK
MOBLEY, CULLUM ROGERS, DARYL WILLIAMS Circulation Managers: BRUCE PUCKETT, HOWARD RAMAGLI Photographers: DAVE DOTY, ROGER MANLEY, SAM RAMACHANDRAN, BOB STRAND
Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.‘Sigma Chi voted to
reject the college proposal and to cease operations at the close of this academic year, according to Rick Weddle, fraternity
president. “Our house has a strong fraternity tradition,” said Weddle. “Since this fraternity is one of the smallest on campus,
we feel we would be severely diluted by the number of freshmen which would come here.”

“We felt it was more important to have a good year and finish rather than go halfway and mess up
the system,” he said. Weddle noted that Sigma Chi presently has no sophomores and only eight juniors. The majority of
the fraternity is composed of 12 seniors.

Sigma Nu President Mark Hallenbeck said that his fraternity voted to accept the college plan, relinquish their charter, and remain
in their house. “Since we didn’t feel we could afford to move off campus, and since the people here wanted
to remain together, we decided to accept the plan,” he said. Hallenbeck noted that his fraternity has a selectivity clause
in its constitution; consequently, he did not feel the national organization would allow them to retain their charter.

Sigma Phi Epsilon will vote on the college's proposal Monday, according to Fraternity President Dave Shepler. “The main reason we
are waiting,” said Shepler, “is that we wanted to get the feeling of the freshmen during rush on how they
felt about moving off campus. We also want to check on some of the specific mechanics involved if we in
fact did decide to continue operations off campus,” he said.

In Admissions Decisions, Coble Asks Student Voice
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

SGA President Ran Coble has a new plan to put student representatives on the admissions committee at Davidson. He said
that the same admissions proposal which was rejected last spring by the faculty will be resubmitted because of new information
on other schools with student-faculty admissions committees and because the handling of the proposal last year was rushed.

According to Coble, “We were near exams, and faculty tempers with students were very short. There were even some faculty
members who were disturbed about the manner in which the proposal was presented.” The basic objections to the proposal last
year were that high school guidance counselors would not send recommendations if students were on the committee and that student
representatives would not keep the records confidential.

Coble added, “Right now we are in the process of trying to find schools comparable to Davidson with admissions proposals.
We have been working with Mr. White to form a questionnaire.” Coble stated that 13 other schools were being checked,
including Colgate, Berkeley, Emory, Amherst, Hamilton, Reed, Pomona, and Oberlin. He mentioned that Oberlin had run into difficulties over its
admissions proposal, and that an understanding of the problems there would benefit the handling of the proposal at Davidson.

Acceptance for the proposal would involve a change in the faculty constitution. In the absence of college President Samuel R.
Spencer Jr. and Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, both of whom are presently abroad, the proposal can
only be initiated by ten percent of the voting faculty in residence.

New Rush (Continued From Page 1)

Approximately 170 freshmen out of a class of 290 had signed up to participate in the rush program. “We were
pleased with this response considering that only one third of the fraternities at Davidson participated,” said Parrigin.

Informal rush parties were held Monday and Tuesday evenings during which participating freshmen visited all four of the fraternities, according
to Parrigin. Then on Wednesday these freshmen received the names of the fraternities who had given them redates, and the
freshmen returned the names of those fraternities which they preferred to revisit. Thursday and Friday were the redate parties where
the freshmen visited fraternities a second and third time.

Six fraternities originally agreed to participate in the informal rush program. These groups included Alpha Tau Omega, Kappa Alpha, Kappa
Sigma, Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Sigma Phi Epsilon. Since the program was initiated, two fraternities, Alpha Tau
Omega and Kappa Sigma, have discontinued participation in the rush proceedings.
