KENT STATE
Two professors from Kent State will speak in the Morrison Room at 9:30 p.m. Monday. These eyewitnesses to the massacre will propose a method of student response to the tragedy.

CHANGES COMING IN INTRAMURALS

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1970
NUMBER TWENTY-SEVEN

Dying Fraternities Thrive On College’s Indifference
AN ANALYSIS
By RUSS MERRITT
Associate Editor

(ED. NOTE: This is the last in a series on “Fraternities in Crisis.”)

“If you and I want to form a fraternity of bow-legged men, it is our privilege to do so. Our bow-legged fraternity does not infringe upon the rights of the knock-kneed men, because they, too, are free to form their own groups.”

In other words, the fraternities argue that man is by nature a social being and desires to belong to an intimate in-group to fulfill his sense of belonging. Furthermore, the fraternities contend, on a college campus intimate friendships with people of the same ideals are impossible without fraternities. Another argument that fraternities use to defend their policies is that, after all, man does have an inalienable right to select his ultimate friends, and thus a group has the right to perpetuate itself in such a manner as it desires. Selection of new friends, and ultimately fraternity members, is a demonstration of taste, not superiority.

In reflecting upon these pro-fraternity arguments, one observation stands out above all the others: fraternities through these explanations are defending an exclusive, selective, and by its very nature snobbish and undemocratic system. Even in these defenses the idea of selection and exclusion within an institutional system is a basic and accepted assumption. And it appears to be the major fault found in such fraternity systems. The psychological problem of institutional rejection, feelings of alienation, and the consequences can be indeed overwhelming, as any psychologist will contend.

Another fault of the present fraternity system is that “brotherhood,” as used by the fraternities in their rush speeches, etc., is only an empty phrase. This “brotherhood” concept is recognized by most fraternity members as something far from actuality, while it increases feelings of bitterness among those rejected by the frats.

A third criticism of the Davidson fraternity system lies in the realm of what it does to the college itself. For instance, past student body president Peter Hobbie cited before the Social Patterns Commission last year that no senior Independent that he knew of would send his son to Davidson. Also, it is reported that many students have chosen other schools over Davidson because of the fraternity system, and many alumni no longer give contributions to the school because it continues to house a discriminatory system.

As long as Davidson operates even nominally under a Christian ethic, then the Christian perspective should also be considered. The Christian ethic, first of all, demonstrates a respect for persons, a characteristic often lacking on the fraternity court. Second, along with showing each person respect, Christian doctrine teaches that each individual should be accepted as such — an individual — and should be accepted for his individual worth. Unfortunately, fraternities all too often fail to follow these principles.

So what are the alternatives to what now exists (See FRATERNITY, Page Four)

Spencer Endorses Suspending Class

As early as 1894, 54 non-fraternity members petitioned the college administration to abolish fraternities from the Davidson campus. Since that time more anti-fraternity movements have evolved, the strongest of which is still in progress. Yet because of indifference and lack of action on the part of the college itself, the fraternity system remains to a great degree unscathed and apparently secure in its present dying form.

There are numerous arguments that the fraternity system nationwide and at Davidson has used to defend its cause. Perhaps an analysis of these arguments would best clarify the fraternity attitudes. The college curriculum, stated the National Interfraternity Council several years ago, leaves a vacuum for the college student. Without social clubs such as fraternities, the student exists in a sort of void, a one-sided academic wasteland that fails to satisfy his needs. Expounding upon this, the national IFC, in the words of its president Claude Teagarden, argued that a

Hopes For CRC Reversal Come To Dead End
By JOE SMITH
Associate Editor

The Ad Hoc Committee for the Protection of Students has made its final appeal to several faculty committees, but with no result. In its efforts to promote a change in admission and curriculum policy, the Ad Hoc group met with the Curriculum Requirements Committee (CRC) in an open meeting on Thursday, May 7 and with the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee on Tuesday, May 12.

The open meeting resulted in what members of the administration called “good dialogue,” but brought no substantive change in policy. “It was sort of like a Youth Fellowship meeting,” said senior John Shott. “We would bring up proposals and the committee members would say it was a good idea and smile and that would be it. There were no promises of action at all.”

There being no substantive action taken on either curriculum or admissions, it is doubtful that the Ad Hoc Committee’s activities have succeeded in expediting the six cases, usually involving ROTC contracts, which brought it into being. Commenting on this, Ad Hoc Committee chairman David Sweatt noted that, as our original reason for existence is concerned, I consider that our efforts have failed.”

In the meeting with the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee, Sweatt and senior Hugh Baskin presented a proposal for reform of present policy with regard to readmission of a student who leaves school to terminate his ROTC obligation. The proposal stated that:

(1) Students who leave the college in good standing academically and socially should be guaranteed readmission, provided that they inform the college of their intention of returning well in advance of reentry.

(2) The creation of a separate committee, consisting of the Registrar, the Dean of Students, and an advisory group of students, to deal with controversial readmission cases.

The committee agreed with the intent of the proposal, although the majority opinion, solicited informally, favored the treatment of readmission cases by a subcommittee of the admissions committee rather than an independent body. William Hight, chairman of the admissions committee, noted that half of the committee dealt with financial aid while the other half had no specific duties, this being a good source for a new subcommittee. Hight said that some action would be taken on the proposal at an undisclosed future date.

Meager Did Not
By KURT GEISINGER
Staff Writer

The trip to the post office has been less eventful this week than last. The anti-war demonstration on the front campus is now over, and the three professors who organized the protest have had

ROTC Officers Get Short Hitch?

The Army Times has reported that about 40 percent of the students graduating this year with ROTC commissions will serve only 6 months active duty, unless they request to serve longer. The normal tour of duty is two years. According to the report, 7000 of an expected 16,000 ROTC graduates this year will be eligible for the shortened hitch. This will not affect the law which states that all able-bodied males owe six years’ service in the armed forces.

According to Col. Virgil P. Foster, professor of military science, the cutback is due to lower troop requirements abroad and the increased need for officers in the National Guard. He predicted that the number of men serving 6 month hitches will continue to increase “perhaps to 80 percent next year.”

Foster also announced a series of recommendations made to the Defense Department by its ROTC advisory panel. The panel recommended increasing monthly pay for advanced ROTC students from $50 to $125, and doubling funds available for ROTC scholarships.

Spencer wants week off
SIDING WITH STUDENTS right before November election.
(Staff photo by Lyle)

Students Could Use Week For Anti-War Candidates
By RICH WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

At Open End Monday night College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said he favored suspension of classes for a week next fall in order that students may campaign for congressional candidates. “I feel this would be a good means of political education for the students,” he said. “The faculty might consider this proposal if it has enough student support.”

Fielding questions on a variety of issues, Spencer commented on the subject of black admissions. “The figures speak for themselves. This year there were 16 or 17 completed applications,

Infirmary’s Records Procedure Raises Major Question Of Privacy
By STEPHEN ROADY
Staff Writer

A procedural difference between Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. and College Physician Dr. William A. Davis over the availability of infirmary records has raised a question involving the privacy of the student college-doctor relationship. Under present procedure, Dr. Davis reports into a Dictaphone the visit, complaint, and treatment of each student seen at the infirmary. This tape, along with each student’s personal card, goes to the Office of the DeanHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of Students, where the secretary types the recorded information onto cards. The secretary next types Faculty Turnout Slow Peace Vigil time to their three-day organize thoughts on the vigil. Professors R. David Kaylor, William E. Jackson, and Frederick R. Gaige were angered by the meager response of faculty, but encouraged by the support of students and black people in the town. They collected 1251 signatures on the petition to Nixon. Over 600 Davidson students signed, as did 350 North Mecklenburg students. In the town, 200 blacks, as against 100 whites, including 75 Davidson faculty, as well as Mooresville and Davidson residents signed. Gaige ran off three Xerox copies of the petition. One copy goes to each of North Carolina’s senators and one to Jackson’s “good friend” Charles Jonas. The original has been sent to President Nixon. Although all three professors said they were impressed by student support, they were disappointed that few faculty members showed up. Reportedly, some professors were “fed up” with demonstrations. Gaige said, “This just raises the level of frustration, possibly causing violence.” Kaylor called it “an irresponsible excuse.” The three were impressed with political science professor Jon Fuller’s response. Although he agreed with Nixon's action, he reported having “meaningful dialogue” on the subject. All three leaders felt that student-faculty barriers were down. Kaylor said that he talked with some of the 88 students that spent Thursday night by the post office until far into the night, and that he felt the demonstration had been a “learning experience.” Gaige was optimistic about the black-white relations that developed during the three days. Many blacks, besides signing the petition, demonstrated in the picketing of the post office. The three professors expressed hope that some of these relationships could be further developed. It was, Gaige continued, probably the first chance this year “to tap support from outside the college community.” Kaylor said that the vigil led to “dialogue rather than violence.” Many students who did not participate still wrote their congressmen, Jackson added. A triplicate copy of the recorded information sends one copy to the Director of Student Housing, one copy to the College Chaplain, and keeps one copy in the Dean's Office. The permanent cards, along with the erased tape, are then sent back to the infirmary. Dr. Davis contends that the procedure needs to be modified. “I think that there are many instances in which the student needs to know that the information will be kept confidential,” he says. In the Dean's defense, he comments that “there are some things which a student may have on a health basis which may affect his academic performance, and in those instances, the Dean is not only entitled to but needs this information.” However, he continues, when the health problems do not affect the student's academic performance, “his health matters ought to be between himself and the doctor.” Dean Burts argues that all the infirmary records are necessary to the optimum functioning of his office. He says that the information makes him better able to respond to personal inquiries from professors and others concerning the students. Burts further maintains that “Davidson is a close-knit residential institution with concerns beyond strictly academic ones. In this regard, it is highly appropriate that we have professional information about the student covering numerous aspects of his life.” The information, says the Dean, “is not sought with any harmful intention. As far as I know this information has never been unwisely used.” In reference to the problem posed by the divulging of delicate health matters, Burts states that the infirmary information is professional information and is not broadcast. He added, however, that “if there are certain things which Dr. Davis feels should be kept off the record, then he should keep them off the record.” Dr. Davis observes that such a procedure makes the keeping of complete records rather difficult. Davis notes that the American College Health Association booklet entitled “Recommended Standards and Practices for a College Health (See INFIRMARY, P. 4) and all but five were accepted here. Yet only six have enrolled.” Spencer said that Davidson attempted to recruit blacks through a number of different sources including the National Scholarship Fund for Negro Students, and the National Merit Achievement Tests. “Letters were not only sent to the black National Merit finalists and semi-finalists, but also to those who had achieved reasonably high scores,” he said. To improve our recruiting coverage, the college hired Calvin Murphy last summer to personally visit prospective black applicants. And this year we had a weekend of activities here for those blacks who seemed interested in Davidson,” he said. Spencer cited few social opportunities, small size, southern orientation, and rural location as unappealing factors which dissuade many blacks from enrolling. “However, we do need a black member on our admissions staff,” said Spencer. “Jobs have been offered to two people so far, but these men are hard to come by.” Spencer also noted that blacks are being sought for other personnel openings. He said that when openings do occur, blacks are the first considered. Concerning student dissent as a cause for suspension, Spencer said, “Any dissent which interferes with the rights of other people constitutes grounds for suspension. We've got to protect the rights of the individual in every case.” There are two methods by which this suspension is brought into effect. Either a case is brought up before the courts or the college president may personally handle the matter. Turning to the subject of self-scheduled exams, Spencer said that the proposal is presently before the Educational Policy Committee. He noted that the Honor Court has expressed grave doubts to the committee about possible honor violations under the proposed system. SGA Senate President Ran Coble asked if there was a possibility that faculty meetings might be open to students. Coble claimed that it was difficult to make a presentation to the faculty and to answer questions which might come up during debate. Spencer said that at most colleges faculty meetings are not open to students. Answering a query about a black studies program at Davidson, Spencer said, “We had hoped to arrange a program with Johnson C. Smith, but when it came to working out the details, problems arose. Black Study programs though have faced difficulties at other colleges in which they have been instituted,” he said. Incoming Freshman Class Will Include Six Blacks By GRAY WILSON Asst. Managing Editor As of this week, six black applicants have definitely decided to enroll at Davidson in the freshman class next fall. According to H. Edmunds White, Director of Admissions, the six have already sent in their deposits, while eleven other accepted black applicants have withdrawn. Of the twenty-three applications submitted, only five were rejected. One application is still pending, and White said it would probably be accepted. Several other incomplete applications were filed which could not be considered for lack of transcripts or necessary test scores. The applications ranged over a small geographical area, coming mostly from South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia. In comparison with statistics on black admissions over the past four years, this next year shows an increase of about four students. Of the 30 applicants last year, ten were accepted and two decided to come. Between 1966 and 1968, no more than ten applications were received from blacks each year with an acceptance of three or four and an enrollment of one or two students. Black students are actively recruited by White, Calvin Murphy, Bobby Allen, and other students. In addition, athletes and sons of alumni are also actively sought by the school. All of these groups show generally lower academic qualifications than other applicants, according to members of the administration. There has been some criticism of the admissions policy on blacks. Last week THE DAVIDSONIAN received a letter which asserted that one particular black applicant had been rejected for dubious reasons. Asked to comment on this case, White said: “It is the committee policy and it is a part of my professional ethics not to discuss the details of any particular application. One obvious reason for this is that recommendations are given to us in confidence, and the decision must be treated that way.” He added, “The decision on the applicant specifically referred to by letter was made by the full admissions committee.” Branch Receives Bell Award David Branch won the $50 first place award at this year’s Vereen Bell Award creative writing contest for his short story entitled “Uncle Arbie.” Bill Lineaweaver won the $25 second place prize for his short story “Apples.” The awards were made by John Carr, writer in residence at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, who read some selections from his upcoming novel. Two honorable mentions were awarded. One went to Ken Rice for his collection of poetry “Stumbling Upon the Essential.” The other went to Nick Livingood for his short story entitled “Jack Cricket.”

---