Page . Fight October 28, 1970 - {Fey Botente a Rese od Pee Upon’ Coming

Friday, 8:03 p.m. Film.
Saturday, October 24
8:30 a.m. Graduate Record Exam
October 23
9 a.m. Examination Area I
2 p.m. Examination Area II
7 p.m. Concert: Mose Henry
11:03 p.m. Film: “Murder Clinic”

Monday, October 26
10 a.m. John McLaughlin: “Conservation and Pollution”
7:30 p.m. German Film Program Perkins Auditorium

Tuesday, October 27
9 a.m. University of Georgia Law School
10 a.m. John McLaughlin: “The Ecology of the Future”
2 p.m. Temple University School of Law

Wednesday, October 28
10 a.m. Public Lecture: James Buchanan
2 p.m. Discussion with James Buchanan
3 p.m. Archaeology Club
3 p.m. Public Lecture: James Buchanan
7 p.m. Film: “Hamlet”
8:03 p.m. Film: “The April Fools”

Thursday, October 29
9 a.m. Vanderbilt Law School
10 a.m. N.C. Department of Corrections Symposium: Jim Ladd
12 p.m. Lunch Films
7 p.m. Eumenean Literary Society
8:03 p.m. Film: “Murder Clinic”

Friday, October 30
12 p.m. Lunch Films

Saturday, October 31
8:03 p.m. Film: A REVIEW

By SCOTT DAVIDSON.

Some books that show every indication of presenting the greatest difficulty in their transfer from a literary to a visual
art form have provided us with our most exciting and tearful cinematic moments. The all-time champ, “Gone with the Wind,”
supplied its director with innumerable difficulties in trying to contain the mood of the novel's sprawling vastness into a three-hour
sitting. Maintaining the correct juxtaposition of love against a turbulent background of war was realized in the Russian version of
“War and Peace.”

Now we have “Catch-22,” the mad, complex black comedy about war. “Catch-22” is the story of Yossarian, the bombardier who
doesn’t want to fly any more missions. His primary motivation is panic, thinking that on each mission everyone is trying
to kill him. He wants to be grounded, claiming himself insane. After all, Doc Daneeka says so. Chaplain Tappman says
so. Even Colonel Cathcart, who keeps raising the number of missions, says so.

But there is one catch. Catch-22. Anyone who wants to get out of flying missions by declaring himself insane is
far too sane to possibly be considered insane.

The action of Joseph Heller’s novel is located on the Mediterranean island of Pianosa, occupied by American troops during World
War II. The movie, like the book, is a composite of shots, of individual incidents, employing the frequent use of
flashbacks. Continuity is supplied through the central figure of Yossarian. The scriptwriter, Buck Henry, whose credits include similar chores for
“The Graduate,” has zeroed in on the same wavelength as Heller. His re-write for the screen has captured the same
manic, frenzied pulse that characterized the novel. He is adept at exposing raw nerves while maintaining a facade of black
comedy.

The uniformly competent acting suffers from the butchery of film editing. We are permitted only glimpses into the lives of
Nately, the rich boy from Boston, Major Major, the officer who hides behind a disposable mustache, and the sensual Nurse
Duckett. When a blustering Orson Welles, as Dreedle, commands that anyone not complying with his military vision should be “taken
out and shot,” we catch Heller at his best.

Milo Minderbinder is sadly miscast. Jon Voight’s boyish face betrays his effectual acting in the role of the ruthless capitalist.
The center stage is held by Alan Arkin as Yossarian. “Catch-22” should definitively establish Arkin as The Great American Actor.
Yossarian is

By JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer

Working to enhance the student life at Davidson, the chairmen of the groups making school social policy answered their critics
Tuesday by explaining their goals and priorities and giving their plans for “big weekends” and the other weekends of the
year.

Many of those critical of the current social plans have said that the $40,000 in the Union budget for entertainment
should be spread out more throughout the whole year, according to Weldon Schenck, president of the Social Council.

“What we are doing on the off weekends is exactly parallel to what many of these people have suggested. We
figured that just several big weekends was not enough, and that centralizing on those weekends left much of the year
blank,” commented Stuart Shelton, chairman of the Union Board. “Therefore, we have been trying to bring inexpensive but not cheap
entertainment on off weekends, and to spread out the entertainment.”

“So far this year,” said Schenck, “we have had the Josh White Jr. concert, two all-campus dances the first two
weekends, Petey Greene, Antiwar Alan Arkin as Yossarian. “Catch-22” should definitively establish Arkin as The Great American Actor. Yossarian isNot
an easy role to fill. His moods range from manic depression to frenzied terror, while constantly maintaining an underlying wisdom.
Arkin accomplishes all with ease and naturalness. The real magician of the whole production is director Mike Nichols. With careful
consideration of all the elements—the mood of Heller’s original, the chronology of events, the capabilities of Arkin and his co-star—he
has whipped up a treat for the eye and a challenge for the mind. From the opening frames of the
sun rising over the austere mountains of Pianosa, throughout the length of the film, to the closing shot of Yossarian
paddling toward Sweden, Nichols did not once lose sight of his objective. His manner has grown more stylized. There is
more concentration on technique as he has rejected much of the gimmickry that "The Graduate"—pop soundtrack; repeated zoom shots, tricky
scene transitions. But Nichols and company have permitted themselves one conceit: that the viewer has read the book. The sequence
of events, the series of flashbacks, and some of the basic symbolism (I’m thinking here of the repeated scenes of
Snowden’s death) require a greater elucidation than Nichols was willing to give. "Catch-22" is anti-war. The real theme lies in
questioning the panic of being alive. Unfortunately, comparisons with "M.A.S.H." are going to be inevitable. But this would be like
comparing "Richard II" to "No Time for Sergeants." "Catch-22" is an achievement of originality, depth, and style. It misses perfection
by a long shot. But it indulges in some of the finest moments on film we have been exposed to
in a long time.

Schenck, Shelton Defend Policy For Big Weekends

"These programs are especially important in the fall term when the freshmen, who are not members of fraternities, are looking
for things to do. Future plans include 'Your Fathers’ Mustache,' 'Brewer and Shipley,' and possibly some experiments, such as a
country and folk music week," he added. "We don't want Davidson to be known for three weekends, but for a
sound social system," Shelton said. Schenck expressed attempts not to cater to any one group. The attempt is being made
to plan a continual social program, not just a sporadic one based on just several weekends. "My problem now is
finding enough weekends," said Shelton. One problem, he stated, is that the college cannot project as far into the future
as other schools can because of the limited budget. Schenck and Shelton brought up the claims by some people that
the big weekends were "too big." "Big weekends allow the people that can't get away a chance for a good
social program," said Shelton. Some criticism has been leveled at them for such big productions as last year’s Spring Frolics,
according to Schenck. "Spring Frolics was as much a product of last year’s Council as this year’s," he answered, "but
we felt that the big name that 'Chicago' had would bring a lot of people on campus, so we wanted
something going on at all times. We don’t plan anything as big as last year’s Spring Frolics this year." Answering
attacks that the money spent on "rinky-dink" acts at this Homecoming could have been spent more profitably elsewhere, he added:
"As far as finances go, Bill Spooner did his card tricks in the Bar for free. None of the Union
funds went for his performance." Poet Diane Wakowski also performed at no cost. "And then there were the skydivers," he
went on. "I thought they were a great hit, and they only cost us $175. Out of a budget of
$40,000, that isn’t much. Steve Baron played Sunday morning, and cost us $1.50. During his whole performance, the crowd varied
from 50 to 200 people, and I'm sure there was some turnover in the crowd, so actually more people than
that probably saw him." About such acts as Spooner and the skydivers, Shelton said, "What we had hoped to do
is add the low-pressure entertainment to the big weekends." "What we want is not just passive entertainment—we want to try
to let them (the student body) have a good time," said Schenck. On the work of the Union Board and
Social Council, College Union Director C. Shaw Smith commented, "What they've tried to do is sharpen their knowledge of groups
and acts to be able to spread enough variety on these weekends so that people can be selective. Everybody’s not
supposed to do everything, and it's a relief to have some silly little things, plus big acts, and all kinds
of entertainment."

Special Student Price

A MIKE NICHOLS FILM ALAN ARKIN in CATCH-22 Based on the Novel by JOSEPH HELLER

"IT’S ONE HELL OF A FILM! A COLD, SAVAGE AND CHILLING COMEDY! Firmly establishes Nichols’ place in the front rank
of American directors." —Bruce Williamson, PLAYBOY

Reg. $2.00—$1.50 with Coupon Available at College Union

STARTS TODAY Oct. 23. PARK TERRACE Park Road Shopping Center 525-2121
