Page Four - January 16, 1970

The Davidsonian

Friday, January 16
7:30 p.m. Hungry I
Saturday, January 17
8 a.m. Graduate Record Examination
9 a.m. Area IV Examination
2 p.m. Area I Examination
7:30 p.m. Hungry I “Edmonds and Curley”
8:15 p.m. Oratorio Singers of Charlotte

Monday, January 19
8 p.m. Fine Films “The River”
Up ‘n’ Coming
“Edmonds and Curley” Morrison Room
Chambers basement
Examinations Chambers
Chambers Morrison Room
Ovens Auditorium
Love Auditorium
“Song of Ceylon” and “Battle of San Pietro”

Tuesday, January 20
3 p.m.
Wednesday, January 21
2:58 p.m.
7:58 p.m.
Friday, January 23
4 p.m. Open faculty meeting
Saturday, January 24
1:30 p.m. Basketball Davidson vs.

(Continued From Page 1)
sue. We must turn inward to spend more there.
“If there’s one issue that can unite people of different ideological persuasions, it’s this one.”
“In the aftermath of Vietnam, in probably the only good thing that has come out of that war, it has
made people question whether or not we had any business over there when we have so many problems over here—race
problems, creating a livable environment in our cities, and facing up to the depletion of our limited resources.
“We should choose our vital interests overseas and hold it to that.”

Asked about the outlook for the primary election, Jackson said that it doesn't look like he will have any serious
opponents. The primary will be held the first week in May, with the general election falling the first week in
November.

Jackson also cited his background as making him well-suited for the job. He served for two years in the early
sixties as assistant to the Director of the War and Peace Institute at Columbia University, which is concerned with studying
United States defense and arms control policies. He acted for a year as an aide to the leader of the
New York State Senate at Albany, who was a Republican. Then he went to Washington to work with the Bureau
of the Budget under Kennedy. He left there in early 1964 to teach at UNC-Charlotte, then went back to graduate
school for a while, then came to teach at Davidson.

“I have received a lot of my moral and organizational support, so far, from the students here at Davidson,” Jackson
commented. “A major part of my organization is to be staffed by politically-savvy students. I am very impressed with the
real sharpness and political insight in some people in my courses. These fellows can handle anything—partly because they keep believing
in the possibility of change.”

Jackson foresees no interruption of his classes because of political work this year, unless a tough primary race develops. “Once
the primary is over in May, though, and until November,” he said, “life will be very busy, so I would
not anticipate teaching a full load in the fall term.”

OPEN HOUSE
The following homes will be open Sunday evening at 8:
Bryan
Jackson Court
Davis
Lynbrook Drive
Polley
Ney Circle
Workman
209 Lorimer

New Line Cinema “Martyrs of Love”
7:30 p.m. South Asia Program Professor Wilmer
8 p.m. New Line Cinema “Martyrs of Love”
New Line Cinema “Martyrs of Love”
New Line Cinema “Martyrs of Love”
Princeton
Jackson
Love Auditorium
Choral Room
Welsh
Love Auditorium
Love Auditorium
Love Auditorium
Morrison Room
Charlotte Coliseum

Candidates (Continued From Page 1)
for some time. Rowland proposes to make THE DAVIDSONIAN “a force that will command the attention and respect of the
college community.” John Fine, news editor for the paper, is the third candidate for the editorship. Fine hopes to integrate
news from outside the campus into the newspaper, particularly news concerning the Davidson community. The only candidate for the SGA
Vice-Presidency is Cecil Burney, presently a sophomore class Senator.

WANTED
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE
UNLIMITED COMMISSIONS
NO INVESTMENT
NO PAPERWORK
Write for information to:
Miss Barbara Kumble
College Bureau Manager
Record Club of America
270 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10016

WOULD YOU LIKE TO START YOUR OWN CHURCH?
We will furnish you with a Church Charter and you can start your own church. Headquarters of UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH
will keep records of your church and file with the federal government and furnish you a tax-exempt status—all you have
to do is report your activities to headquarters four times a year. Enclose a free will offering.
UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH, BOX 6575, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021

Graham Reviews Past Annuals, Asks Prospective Editors To State Esthetic Plans
A REVIEW By Dan Graham
“We find that our needs are the same as they have always been. We continue in our haphazard way of
existence, flying from one trapeze to another, seldom stopping long enough to ask what is beneath appearances.”
“Meanwhile, the parties, firm handshakes, smiles, and guys with no socks go on forever. Somehow you make a few friends
you won't forget, tolerate the rest, and rush in spite of yourself.”
These two passages illustrate what is wrong with Davidson annuals. One is taken from a 1964 yearbook, and one from
a 1968, but no difference is discernible. This is not to say that the yearbook has not changed radically in
the past two decades. It has come a long way from the rogues’ gallery of serried photographs chronicled by an
aggregate of serried facts. The yearbook has changed radically because of two important discoveries made between 1950 and 1960: 1)
photography and 2) copy. The development of theseDiscoveries have made it possible to now review the yearbook as art. But
all too often the photographers have been unimaginative and the copy trite and platitudinous, and the yearbook has remained simply
a yearbook. The only thing to distinguish one yearbook from another for the student has been the class in which
his photograph was to be found. The heights to which a yearbook can rise have only once been seen in
Davidson history, in 1967. Ed Dwelle’s yearbook was controversial for any number of reasons, but it is time to take
it out, dust it off, and re-evaluate it.

It was controversial because:
1) It was a parody of yearbooks, including such devices as a page of “big men” on campus.
2) It had no copy, not a word, and it made you think to figure out why the collection of
pictures on a page or a few succeeding pages were there.

This is an important question, one that seems not to have been considered by the editors of pages 58-59 of
the 1968 yearbook, who laid out beside some irrelevant copy, the photographs of an elephant's derriere, a close-up of some
magnolia buds, some ice-glazed branches, and a summer view of the fountain near Elm Row. Finally, the 1967 yearbook was
controversial because it did not follow the neat compartmental organization which had characterized all previous annuals. The compartments of yearbooks—classes,
students, activities, etc.—might be used to express something significant about Davidson life, but more often they are an excuse for
merely collecting photographs. The often excellent photography of the 1968 and 1969 editions was put into the insufficient containers readily
supplied by compartments.

There are many details of the 1967 yearbook which show the hand of real craftsmanship. The flat, low-gloss paper gives
magnificent quality to the photographs reproduced. The 1967 edition reveals a sensitivity to the richness and expressiveness of the black
and white medium. Attempts at color reproductions in yearbooks have not shown an appreciation of the medium of color. Color
sections have often been reminiscent of Chamber of Commerce folders.

The yearbook is traditionally prized for its sentimental value. If, in addition to this inescapable value which is attached to
it, some significant feeling of Davidson life is expressed, it would indeed be a treasure to the alumnus. My point
in reviewing this time is to implore any candidate who runs for editor this Tuesday to state his aesthetic principles,
as well as his experience.

GO WITH NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL
EVERYTHING POINTS TO NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL
Insurance Company
Bob Stone North Main
Ed Childs South Main
“Because there IS a difference!”

“I think they're trying to tell me something!”
The NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE
892-1424 892-1467

Phone 376-2576

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass - Mooresville, N. C.

SHRUDE M. F. HOLDIN CO.
CHARLOTTE'S NO. 1 Boutique
200 Independence
Belts, Unisex, Body Shirts
Bell Bottoms, Leather & Incense

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

All winter wearables
SUITS, SPORTSCOATS,
TOP COATS, CARCOATS,
JACKETS, PANTS,
and SWEATERS,
Greatly Reduced
for Inventory Reduction
SALE

Have You Been To The SALE At John Mack's In Mooresville?
Shop Now and Save
John Mack & Son
Mooresville
Our 58th Year

If you don't like the way people talk to each other, change it. We'll pay you to:
We're in the communications business. And during the next 30 years we're going to upgrade all the equipment we now
have in order to provide even better service to our 6 million existing customers. As if that weren't enough, we're
also going to have to come up with enough new equipment to provide telephone service to about 26 million more
people, as well as equipment for a much more extensive data communications program.

We need enough people (electrical, civil, mechanical, and industrial engineers, designers, accountants, and economists) to plan, design, build, and operate
a company that will be four times bigger than we are today. We also need engineers, researchers, and scientists to
develop electronic switching equipment, laser and other communications systems we'll be using 10, 25, and 50 years from now.

But this is only one part of our communications business. Our Sylvania people, for example, are involved in other types
of communications, like color television sets, satellite tracking stations, and educational television systems. Automatic Electric, Lenkurt, Ultronic Systems, and some
of our other companies, subsidiaries, and divisions are working on advanced types of integrated circuitry, electro-opticals, and communications systems between
people and computers and between computers and computers.

So if you think you have something to say about the way people talk to each other, we're ready to
listen.

General Telephone & Electronics
International * GT&E Data Services * GT&E Communications
Sylvania Electric Products * Lenkurt Electric
Automatic Electric * Telephone Companies in 34 States
General Telephone Directory Company * General Telephone & Electronics Laboratories
