Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” — Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO APRIL 17, 1970

Vietnam: Peace Now

We now have 430,000 American soldiers in Vietnam. They have been kept there at a cost of 50,000 men and
$8 million per hour. Consider the Moratorium.

Undeniable Obligations

Though Davidson “believes that its purpose is promoted or hindered by the quality of the total life of the college
community,” we will welcome next week the members of the continuing corporate community and again skirt major crisis areas of
the college. The occasion is a meeting of the Board of Trustees which has not scheduled consideration of the commission
reports on Social Patterns or Extra-Campus Responsibilities in its agenda. None of us can forget that three times in the
past, major studies have been made on the state of the campus social life, and this spring will see another
board meeting pass without any substantive action more than five years after the first recommendations. Furthermore, the area of concern
considered most relevant to students, the question of 24-hour open dorms, will be sidestepped for consideration of board structure and
elections. Surely no one on campus could have thought that these were the most pressing matters. Have we had so
little foresight to set priorities, or worse just so little interest to pursue the urgent, albeit more difficult questions?

Some problems are of particular moment and should not wait six months for decisions. Outstandingly,

Too Long

The exciting problems in the Davidson Court system are now likely to continue to exist for another term. It is
unfortunate but true that the trustees will do nothing to relieve the situation at least until their general review of
the Code of Responsibility next fall.

Moving sluggishly, as most movements in older bodies tend to be sluggish, the trustees have apparently decided that the situation
is not serious enough to warrant special action this spring. We beg to differ. The situation is indeed serious and
every student in this school stands an all too frightening chance of being seriously hurt by the system.

Something must be done. While it is unlikely that the trustees could take effective action without prolonged study of the
issues, they should act at the meeting next week to protect students from potential danger. We recommend that the trustees
pass a resolution which would prevent a student being suspended from school by a college court until the present court
system is reviewed. Such a resolution would not prevent the courts from acting on cases during the next few months.
They would merely be prevented from issuing a sentence of suspension as long as there is significant doubt about their
powers and procedure. A student would be allowed to continue to take courses and receive credit until his case could
be reviewed by revised and competent courts.

It is all too evident that the courts which exist at present are not competent. They are hamstrung by a
few deficiencies which could be corrected but which will apparently be ignored by the trustees. All the courts desperately need
a complete and comprehensive set of written procedures. There needs to be a resolution of the problem of court bias
and a new system of prosecution is needed. The problem of college court authority with regard to drug cases needs
to be studied and settled. And the publication of court proceedings needs to follow certain written procedures. These problems (and
there may be others) need attention. If the attention is not forthcoming, the trustees should act at once to preserve
the sense of community on the campus. Not one student should be hurt because of an omission in the trustees’
agenda.

Student Protection

Faculty will usually say that student-faculty relations are excellent in Davidson's small college atmosphere. You will probably get the same
view from a member of the administration or from the college catalogue. But ask a member of the Ad Hoc
Committee for the Protection of Students about the same issues. He will probably say that yes, student-faculty relations are good.
And he will probably add, “But don’t get complacent.”

The treatment of several seniors by the Curriculum Requirements Committee (CRC), the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) and the Admissions Committee
fully justifies that caution. Students and faculty are not supposed to be in opposing camps and the hostility with which
several students were treated by the CRC and the FEC is neither excusable nor understandable.

The main issues in the controversy seem to be: first, apparent inconsistencies in administration of policy by the CRC, and
second, a mishandling of several students by both the CRC and the Admissions Committee. The documentation of cases by the
Ad Hoc Committee is apparently complete and accurate. If that is correct then it does seem that students should get
behind the Ad Hoc Committee and give it unqualified support. We see no reason for the treatment given students. Given
the transitional nature of the educational period through which we are going, it is inevitable that unusual cases appear. It
might have been expected that a degree of leniency would have been shown to those who were, to paraphrase Browning,
caught between two worlds. This was not the case.

Further it does not seem reasonable that students should have met hostility partly because of their views toward ROTC. They
say that such did happen in CRC meetings. We believe that the college should let the ROTC department handle its
own problems without confusing them in our own curricular struggles.

To prevent the present misunderstanding from recurring in the immediate future, two steps might be taken: (1) the compilation and
full explanation of rules regarding curriculum and readmission of students and (2) the recognition of a student's right to appeal
cases in this area to the full faculty. A careful answering of these questions would reduce the chance of further
incidents similar to the one now in question and would alleviate the need for an Ad Hoc Committee for the
Protection of Students.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Students Reprimand Orchestral Review; Critic Explains Humor

To the Editor:

The reaction I had after reading Tom Sinks’ review of the Princeton Chamber Orchestra concert must have been similar to
that elicited from the readers of the pre-Paul Hume Washington Post who discovered in a review of a National Symphony
concert that “Mr. Mitchell is a very versatile conductor. Not only can he conduct with his right hand, but he
can conduct with his left hand as well!” If, as I suspect, underneath Mr. Sinks’ baseball game review there lies
an attempt to review the event of the evening of April 3, THE DAVIDSONIAN, too, has finally reached the lowest
point of its critical efforts. If Mr. Sinks had intended his article to be purely humorous, he should have changed
the name of the orchestra to the East Cornelius Philharmonic. An orchestra of the quality of the group should not
be subject to a humor column diatribe. Moreover, if the article was meant to be a parody of a Princeton
review, it should have been discernible as such. Assuming he did not enjoy the concert and therefore chose to review
it humorously, an effort such as this requires comment.

The first task of a critic is to determine why his reaction to a concert is either favorable, indifferent, or
unfavorable. There are three possibilities which hold for each reaction. A listener should determine first whether his mood or physical
state affected his appraisal and whether his reaction might be due to any imbalance or shortcomings in his musical background.
Secondly, he must decide whether the compositions themselves contain any value. Thirdly, he must determine whether the performance of those
pieces was as successful as the music would allow it to be.

Humor without a well-defined target is humorless and pointless. Nowhere in Mr. Sinks’ article do I find any reason to
believe that he seriously attempted to differentiate between faulty music, or bungling performers. If he was bored by the Bartok,
for instance, was he bored because he did not understand it? If not, he should have explained exactly why he
was bored by it. Either the pieceor the conducting was bad, or both. A critic who speaks “about music which
drifts into “tedious bunches of sound, which was not resolved but merely allowed to die away,” leaves me uninformed, unamused,
and suspicious. From my viewpoint, the concert mistress played superbly in technique and in tone. Marion Davies certainly earned in
no way a description of the type she received. The program varied, the choice of music was stimulating. The orchestra
played with great precision, beautiful tone quality, good balance, and excellent phrasing. Mr. Harsanyi's ability to interpret the music was
memorable. In my opinion, the Vivaldi was marvelous. The interplay between the soprano and orchestra in a very sensitive execution
of Vivaldi’s style created an exciting experience for this listener.

I have difficulty in viewing Mr. Harsanyi and crew as a Charlie Brown aggregation. Maybe Mr. Sinks would find a
stint in Music 21 helpful. Anyone who has the courage to attempt a review in Neo-Dick Banks style deserves all
the help he can get. Perhaps the problem with Artist Series presentations has not lain with the performers but with
sandlot critics and audiences. Or, more generously, perhaps Mr. Sinks merely forgot to take his Pepto-Bismol after dinner. Such occurrences
do happen.

Robin Gottfried ‘70
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The review of the Princeton Chamber Orchestra in last week's DAVIDSONIAN can be criticized in many ways. I would simply
like to say that the review was an inaccurate and unfair evaluation of good music well played, written by a
student who apparently does not have enough understanding of music to discuss it in its own terms.

Daniel C. Vinson ‘70
Davidson College

To the Editor:

It is unfortunate that my critics were unable to ascertain the purpose of my review. The best jokes are those
that do not need to be explained. My review was an effort to satirize reviews and reviewers, not to criticize
the Princeton Chamber Orchestra. I am deeply sorry there was so much confusion over my quasi-literary effort. In the future,
I shall try to be less subtle.

Tom Sinks ‘72
Davidson College

ROBERT PYEATT

I think you show a commendable interest in world affairs and Davidson College affairs, albeit I think you are misguided.
But the rate at which mail has been pouring forth from your Murrells Inlet, S.C., sanctuary has been driving our
editor up the wall. Freedom of the press is one thing, but you, Mr. Thornton, are quite another. However, our
paper has a policy of printing all authenticated letters, and yours are authentic relics. If you write any more, Shoaf
will do more than mumble about canceling your subscription. Your brand of effete honkyism graces our editorial page with a
certain fertilizer-like quality.

Speaking of gracing the editorial page, if the fantastic oversight which allowed the printing of Sinks’ review last week is
repeated, I will resign. You may be interested in further events taking place on campus since your old friend Julian
Bond left. Right after that, we had Dean Rusk. Rusk, whom we refer to as “The Honorable” for his contribution
to the slaughter in Vietnam, left a number of questions unanswered in various question and answer sessions during his visit
here. Not the least of these was how much his Davidson experience contributed to his complete incapacity to see the
war as a moral issue. Norman Johnson says that Rusk really believes that the United States is a monarchy. He
must have imbibed it from the presidents he served under, particularly the latter. For example, several times during his visit
here, Rusk referred to the Cabinet as “the President’s court.” He thinks of the Secretary of State as the President’s
chief minister. Evidently, the Nixon Administration also holds this view. Tricky Dick frequently refers to his daughter Tricky Tricia as
“our Princess.” Having married one daughter off to political royalty, he is now scheming to get the other one married
to Prince Charles.

Mr. Rusk, at any rate, left us amazed by his exciting ability to mouth the platitudes we have been hearing
for the last ten years.

On other fronts, the Admissions Office—in a fit of escalating tokenism, proudly announced that 16 black students have been accepted
for next year. This truly magnanimous gesture shows once again what a liberal campus we are. And we owe our
liberality to a similarly magnanimous group that has been prominent in the news recently, the “continuing college community.” All the
residents of Davidson, continuing or not, know that the “continuing college community”—recently brought to our attention by Dr. Sam Spencer—consists
of Spencer and his continuing flunkies. With the continuing college community watching out for us mere transients here, you don’t
have to worry about us succumbing to evil influences, Mr. Thornton. The c.c.c. will protect us.

As we all know, the continuing college community is responsible for all of the many advances that have been made
in Davidson’s recent history. Among other things, they put over that curriculum reform they were all so pleased about a
couple of years ago. Recently, the Curriculum Requirements Committee has been affirming the sacredness of our wonderful new curriculum, and
some ungrateful students have had the temerity to resent this.

This past week at Davidson there were some noticeable divisions along the student front. Two groups appeared, the Ecology People
and the Anti-War People, with Straight Pat Mullen as their short-haired leader, and the Anti-War People, with Peter Hobbie representing
that ragged group as their self-appointed spokesman. While the Anti-War People have been fasting, the Ecology People have been taunting
them with comments about food and eating hungrily in front of them.

So Davidson is continuing along the path of greatness to which fate has destined it. We will try to keep
you informed of this amazing progress in the pages of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Mr. Thornton. And please don’t write.
