PUBLICATION CEASES

With this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication for the exam period and for spring break. Publication will resume with the
April 3 issue in the first week of the spring term.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1970

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

ROWLAND EXAMINES SPENCER’S MORALITY (See Page Two)

NUMBER TWENTY

MACHI’S EXTEND INVITATION (Staff photos by Davidson)

Local Machi’s will take members on a non-exclusive basis.

Students Favor Unlimited Hours By Four To One

Preliminary returns from the Residence Hall Council referendum on 24-hour open dorms show that 80 percent of the students voting
favor unlimited dormitory hours. Returns are nearly complete from East, Duke, Richardson, Watts, and about half of Belk dorm’s votes
have been counted, according to RHC President Cecil Burney.

Burney noted that almost all of the dorm residents have voted on the referendum, which will be used to determine
which dorms will be opened on a 24-hour basis if and when the faculty approves the proposal as sent from
the Student Life Committee (SLC). The proposal had called for a change in the RHC Manual of Order, which would
allow dorm residents to vote themselves round-the-clock open dorms. The proposal had passed the SLC, but the SLC felt that
it lacked final authority in the matter, deferring to the faculty. (See Mar. 6 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN).

The results of the referendum will be the basis of the RHC presentation to the faculty and determine the visiting
hours in the dormitories when the amendment is passed.

RHC contentions that the referral of the matter to the faculty by the Student Life Committee was unconstitutional have been
dropped. Burney said that he was requesting that he and Tom Opie be permitted to present the proposal to the
faculty. The presentation will include the complete results of the referendum and selections from the Coeducation Commission report, he said.

The proposal has a fairly good chance of passing the faculty, Burney said. “I don’t think this is a matter
of as much grave moral concern as some people think it is. It is more a case of clearing up
hypocrisies in the Code of Responsibility and setting up a system of student-determined dormitory life.”

Bond To Deliver Martin Lectures

Julian Bond, the outspoken young Black State Representative from Georgia, will speak on campus Mar. 31 and Apr. 1 as
a Martin Lecturer. Only 30 years old, he was one of the first Negroes since Reconstruction to be elected to
the Georgia House of Representatives in 1966.

Bond, when a Representative-elect in January 1966, irritated his colleagues when he said that he admired the courage of draft
resisters who burn their draft cards. He was refused his seat, however, by other legislators who objected to his antiwar
views. The Supreme Court later overruled the decision of the house and allowed Bond to take office.

Early in 1960 Bond joined the civil rights movement as one of the founders of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee.
He participated in the first sit-in aimed at integrating Atlanta’s lunch counters. He gained a nationwide reputation by leading a
dissenting delegation from Georgia to the national Democratic Convention in 1968. He seconded the nomination of Minnesota Senator Eugene J.
McCarthy for president, and was himself nominated by the Wisconsin delegation for Vice President, but declined because he was too
young to run for that office.

When the legislature is not in session, Bond spends much of his time on the lecture circuit, mostly visiting colleges.
He is considering running for the U. S. House of Representatives this fall against incumbent white Republican Fletcher Thompson of
Atlanta.

His main speech will be in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, March 31. He will also speak Wednesday
morning at 10 a.m. in the Morrison Room in the Union.

The partial returns are as follows: 81.43 percent favor unlimited hours seven days a week. 11.85 percent favor unlimited hours
on weekends, with dorms being open from noon to midnight on weekdays. 5.59 percent favored the present schedule, and 1.11
percent preferred an even more restricted schedule. Results are being tabulated on the college’s 1620 IBM computer.

No, it’s not this week’s mail delivery. Actually, persons unknown struck THE DAVIDSONIAN office Thursday night and emptied the sorted
mail and memos into the floor. Fact is, the newspaper hasn’t been receiving much mail lately, as a quick glance
at Page Two will show. THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. It has not in recent
history refused to print a tasteful letter whose authorship could be confirmed. Send us your letters, and we will try
to take better care of them.

FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS

By RUSS MERRITT Associate Editor

After attempting for five months to create the first successful local fraternity on the Davidson campus, officials at the Machi
house have decided to suspend present operations at the end of this term for financial reasons. The announcement followed closely
an open board invitation by the house to anyone interested, making it the first non-selective eating club at Davidson.

Norm Hurwitz, house treasurer, made the announcement concerning the suspension of fraternity activities to the members during lunch Tuesday, explaining
that the present organization operating in the house would not be able to continue its present operations. “At this moment
the financial situation at the house is such that it would be completely unfeasible for us to continue as we
are presently operating,” Hurwitz said. He pointed out that, although the house isn’t in any immediate financial trouble, there is
a strong possibility that it soon will be if present operations are continued.

However, Hurwitz’s announcement has not been universally accepted at the house. The night after his explanation to the house members
that for financial reasons the group would have to suspend present activities, several members, including newly-elected president Wendy March, welcomed
those students that had accepted the invitation to eat at the house. “I admit that I don’t know the financial
situation of the house as well as Hurwitz,” March said recently. “Norm has been the house treasurer and trusted financial
adviser for three years and has done an outstanding job. Therefore, we don’t question his financial statements, and he has
the equivalent of absolute control of the purse strings. However, I feel that if we can make the work as
a non-selective eating club we shouldn’t have to discontinue our operation. And I feel that possibly we can be financially
successful as such.”

March admitted, however, that there is a very real possibility that there will be several changes next term, including possibly
the return to the system used before the local-national split of the house. Apparently Hurwitz, despite some remaining shreds of
hope among the local group, has made such possibilities definite by his decision to close the financial operations of the
organization.

MAIL CALL

By STEPHEN ROADY Associate Editor

Davidson's long-awaited Honors College proposal has been released by Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston. Stating that the Honors
College is conceived “as an educational opportunity for the exceptional student whom we do not wish rigidly and automatically to
define—to travel as fast and as imaginatively as his abilities and maturity permit,” the proposal calls for a program which
would tailor an individual curriculum for each of its students.

The Honors College will begin operation next fall with at least four and possibly six faculty members. Any student is
eligible to apply for admission, which will be based on the demonstrated qualifications of the applicant, the quality and feasibility
of his personal educational proposal, the availability of faculty direction, and a personal interview. Applications may be obtained from the
office of the Dean of the Faculty, and must be returned by April 1. Each student admitted to the Honors
College will be relieved of all regular graduation requirements, and a special “contract” will be made between him and the
faculty of the Honors College as toWhat his field of study will be. Although emphasis will be placed on individual
educational projects, the proposal states that “probably not all of every student’s academic work will be in the College.” The
Faculty might specify that certain portions of the “contract curriculum” must be taken in regular college courses.

Honors

Each Honors College student will be assigned a faculty adviser from the staff of the Honors College. This adviser will
normally serve as the student's tutor, guiding the special educational project undertaken by him and maintaining records of his performance.
Grades of “Honors,” “Pass,” or “Fail” will be given to participants in the program.

ODK: Distinguished Leadership Is Recognized In College Community

National leadership fraternity Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) has tapped three seniors, seven juniors, and two professors in its spring initiation
ceremonies. ODK seeks to recognize campus leaders by considering eminence in five phases of campus life: scholarship, athletics, social and
religious activities, publications, and forensic, dramatics, music, and other cultural activities.

Selected to ODK were:

Mac Davis, who is a senior pre-med major from Jacksonville, Florida. Davis has been captain of the swimming team for
two years, a member of the Commission on Coeducation, president of Alpha Epsilon Delta (AED) pre-med honorary, and a member
of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon (GSE) chemistry honorary fraternity. He has also served two years as a hall counselor.

Pat Mullen, a senior from Gastonia, is an English major who has worked on the Miscellany and with the Eu
Society. He was a Junior Year Abroad student and he directed the symposium on the Humanities and the Sciences sponsored
by the Eu Society.

Jack Wellman has worked as business manager of THE DAVIDSONIAN and is a member of Omicron Delta Epsilon economics honorary.
Wellman is a senior economics major from Johnsonville, S.C.

Presently Junior Year Abroad, Gary Cash has been active in the SGA Senate and on the debate team. Next year
he will be a freshman advisor. Cash is from Oxford, N.C., and is a junior.

Newly elected SGA President Ran Coble has also lettered on the cross-country team and has served this year as a
hall counselor. He has been active in the Residence Hall Association (RHA).

John Bolinger, a junior from Knoxville, Tennessee, has been president of Alpha Tau Omega for two years. He is also
a member of the Honor Court and is a hall counselor.

A junior from Dallas, Texas, Peter Lutken is presently on the Junior Year Abroad Program. He is active in drama
and starred in “Oh, What A Lovely War.” Lutken was also on the cross-country team.

Debate team captain Gray Mason is a junior from Clearwater, Florida. He is investigating possibilities for a speech program on
campus.

Former Vice-President of the SGA and Chairman of the RHC, Tom Opie is first in the junior class scholastically. He
has also been active in the Young Republicans, the Conservative Club, Alpha Phi Omega (APO) service fraternity, and Phi Eta
Sigma freshman scholastic honorary.

Jim Trussell, a junior from Columbus, Georgia, is fourth scholastically in the junior class. He has taught in the Free
University, is a member of the track team, helped to plan the Honors College, and is a member of Phi
Eta Sigma. Trussell is also a Richardson Fellow and a hall counselor.

Selected from the faculty was Dr. Frank Bliss, professor of English. Bliss was Vice-Chairman of the Commission on Coeducation and
is nationally known for work with the College Board program.

Also tapped from the faculty was Gill Holland, assistant professor of English. He has worked with a writing seminar on
campus and with the wrestling team.

Operations pointed out that the local status of the house had no direct effect upon its lack of success. “Actually,
we'd have no financial problem at all regardless of the local status if all the members would pay their bills.
However, certain members for various reasons have refused to pay, and so the house is unable to meet its financial
obligations.” There are several members of the local organization that owe the house more than one hundred dollars, and one
member is in debt to the house for over four hundred dollars.

The proposal says that Honors College students “may take a significant portion of their work outside Davidson College by attending
another college or university, or by working in a research library or scientific institute.” The proposal envisions the Honors College
as “a cooperative enterprise with cohesion and unity.” Meetings of all Honors College students and faculty will be held periodically
for self-assessment purposes. In addition, it is proposed that some common experience, such as a seminar, unite the Honors College
students in a joint endeavor. When the Honors College has become fully established, the faculty will consist of about eight
professors, representing a variety of academic disciplines. A Visiting Dana Professor will be available each year whose primary assignment will
be in the Honors College. The Dean of the Honors College will have his office in the Eumenean Society Hall,
where general Honors College meetings and the proposed seminar will take place. The proposal makes it clear that the Honors
College must contribute to the overall educational program of Davidson. The goal of the College “must be not only to
provide enriched experiences for faculty and students in the Honors College, but also to enrich the life of the entire
institution by providing a model of excellence and by sharing its insights directly with the rest of the academic program.”

Honors

Hollins Picks 5 For Consortium

By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

Five sophomores have been accepted to go to other colleges their junior year on the Eight College Exchange Program. All
five will be going to Hollins College, in Hollins College, Va., a private school for women. The men are John
Cox, Billy Stagg, Chris Sikes, Joe Turner, and Bobby Allen. There are also two men whose approval by Hollins has
been held up for various reasons. Registrar Jay H. Ostwalt, Exchange Officer for the college, felt it would be “inappropriate”
to give their names at this time. Ostwalt added that eleven women have expressed interest in coming to Davidson College
next year as part of the exchange. They include four from Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Va., three from Randolph-Macon
College for Women in Lynchburg, two from Hollins College, and two from Sweet Briar College in Sweet Briar, Va. It
was not clear, Ostwalt said, how many of these women would come to Davidson. He expected letters shortly from their
home institutions giving definite information. All participants in the program were required to submit a $150 deposit to their home
institutions by Tuesday. Colleges in the Consortium will then notify the host institutions how many students they can expect. Colleges
presently participating in the Eight College Exchange Program are Davidson College, Hollins College, Hampden-Sydney College, Randolph-Macon College, Randolph-Macon Women’s College,
Mary Baldwin College, Sweet Briar College, and Washington and Lee University. The Eight College Exchange program will serve as a
device for partial coeducation of the Davidson College campus. As many as 30 coeds may transfer here from the schools
mentioned if that many Davidson students apply to transfer out.

Hannen Receives Grant

Senior George Hannen has been named this year’s recipient of the Rockefeller Foundation grant. The grant is annually awarded to
a senior at Davidson who is considering a career in the ministry. The Rockefeller Theological Foundation provides the funds for
one year for a student to attend seminary in order to decide whether he will go into the ministry. Hannen
is a North Carolina Fellow at Davidson and was a key member of the varsity football team. He has served
as a freshman hall counselor. Also named as runner-up in the competition was senior Cary Tucker. Tucker will be eligible
to receive the grant if for any reason Hannen is unable to accept it. Tucker has been active in various
causes on campus, including the fraternity cooks salary issue, the anti-ROTC campaign last spring, and the current controversy over the
campus judicial system.
