PAST AND FUTURE OF Q & C EXAMINED

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, April 24, 1970

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

DAYLIGHT SAVINGS TIME

This weekend will be one hour shorter than usual. Set your clocks AHEAD one hour this Sunday morning at 2
a.m.

NUMBER TWENTY-FOUR

Newest Figures Explode Fraternity Court Myth

AN ANALYSIS
By RUSS MERRITT
Associate Editor

ED. NOTE: This is the first in a series of four articles on “Fraternities In Crisis.”

One of the most pervasive beliefs at Davidson is that fraternities provide the social life for a vast majority of
the student body. To the defenders of the Davidson fraternity system, this belief has become dogma. In the light of
facts, however, it is nothing more than myth, and a grossly expounded and expanded myth at that.

For instance, when the class of '72 entered Davidson, it was told that 85 percent of the student body was
affiliated with the 12 national fraternities on campus. However, in actuality, less than two-thirds of the campus was at that
time active in fraternities, and next fall barely half of the student body will be paying fraternity bills. Excluding recently
pledges, Patterson Court now numbers only 474 active members, far less than the assumed 85 percent, or even the two-thirds
of last year, of the student body.

Next year the fraternity court will begin operation with approximately 538 members, possibly the fewest in many years. Also, there
will be at least four houses with fewer than the 30 members required by the college, with several more fraternities
being in financial trouble.

In fact, it is apparent to close observers of the court that Davidson fraternities are gradually beginning to follow the
nationwide demise of college fraternities. As the vice-president of one of Davidson's largest groups recently said, “The fraternity system here
is dying and will be dead in a couple of years if it doesn’t change from its present patterns.”

In short, then, the fraternities at Davidson are in the beginning stages of a major crisis. The court has been
attacked from the outside for years, dating back to a faculty vote outlawing fraternities a decade ago and up to
the latest unsuccessful attempts by Independents to ruin rush. Now, however, the problems are internal and the wounds are much
deeper, and it will apparently take a drastic change from the present system to save it from passing from the
Davidson scene.

The reasons for this slow death of the fraternity system are threefold: first, there is a growing disinterest among students
concerning fraternities, a disinterest produced by a feeling that fraternities do not satisfy their social needs; second, the fraternity ideology,
particularly in the national-local issue, is under vicious attack from within the national fraternities; and third, the changing personalities of
the Davidson students have caused deep personal dissension in several houses.

The Kappa Alpha house is a good example of a fraternity in trouble. Long one of the foremost fraternities on
campus, the KAs will open next fall with 28 members at the most, according to Fred Rose, a brother at
the house. According to Rose, there are just 17 juniors and sophomores now at the house due to a recent
house division over fraternity philosophy, a division that probably cannot be healed.

“The split in the house came over the Robert E. Lee tradition of Kappa Alpha and over the local-national issue.
Also, there was a difference in personalities,” Rose said. Just before the split, the house voted by a majority of
two to stay national and retain the traditional KA image. Around 25 inactive KAs partied together last week, demonstrating that
they did not need the organized house and did not intend to return to it as long as it is
run under the current philosophies.

“There is a tremendous amount of hostility between the KAs on campus,” Rose said. “People have been going inactive simply
because they can’t make this fraternity system work for themselves.”

At the Sigma Nu house, the problem is somewhat different. All fraternities at some time or another go through the
pains of losing an outstanding class at graduation, but the Snus were hit particularly hard last year and will be
hurt even more this spring. John Cutchin, one of the sophomores at the house, said that the seniors this year
“were great leaders for the house” and that their presence greatly influenced the fraternity’s rushes both last year and this
winter. Graduation will leave several very dissatisfied members at the Snu house.

(See FRATERNITIES, Page Six)

Hall Named New Trustee Chairman

Study-Committee Set Up On ‘College Governance’

At yesterday’s meeting of the trustees, Warner L. Hall, pastor of the Covenant Presbyterian Church, received the Distinguished Citizens Award
as secretary of the board. Graduating in the 1938 class of Davidson, Hall was elected as secretary of the board.

Spencer Willing To Hear Petition

The petition had called for White's replacement. Sweatt denied that this was a personal attack on White, or that it
was a grievance.

By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

College President R. Samuel Spencer Jr. and members of the administration have agreed to meet with students from the Ad
Hoc Committee for the Protection of Students to discuss a petition calling for redress of particular grievances with the faculty
Curriculum Requirements Committee (CRC) with respect to graduation credits.

Earlier, Spencer had refused to negotiate with students because he objected to the tone of a cover letter to the
petition and because he refused to talk with students in response to “demands.”

The petition and cover letter called on Spencer to meet with concerned students and to state what course of action
he planned to take, if any.

“We never considered our demands,” Ad Hoc leader David Sweatt said. “We are asking Spencer to consider these points and
express his position on the points.”

The Ad Hoc group has drafted another letter to Spencer, and as of press time, Spencer, the CRC, and others
of the administration named in the students’ complaints were planning to meet together Monday night.

Sweatt declined to meet with Spencer and others in “a closed session prior to the Monday night open meeting. According
to Sweatt, the closed meeting would have dealt with “personal attacks” on H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial
aid.

Students’ complaints seemed generally to grow out of confusion resulting from the changeover to the Blue Sky curriculum in 1968.
Several students complained that they were unfairly denied graduation credit for work done in the summer between the old curriculum
and new. Another complaint involved the reaction of the CRC’s ruling on transferring credits from other schools in the senior
year, in alleged violation of the senior residency requirement.

(See CRC, Page 4)

PART OF THE PROBLEM

Davidson students gathered this litter during the morning hours of Earth Day.

‘TO CHANGE ATTITUDES’

Earth Day Workers Car Boycott, Litter

By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

The anti-auto leafleteers, the theta-sign posters, the cans of plastic cups outside the Union Cafeteria, and the great heaps of
rubbish on the porch of the Union served notice to all comers Wednesday that Davidson College had joined the nation-wide
celebrations of Earth Day.

Davidson’s Earth Day effort included volunteer squads to help the Town of Davidson pick up garbage this week, to clean
up litter on the campus, to pass out leaflets urging people not to drive cars, and to distribute information on
the dangers of pollution both to the college and the community.

Freshman John Wackman, one of the leaders of the movement, explained that “the purpose of the Earth Day is to
get student participation and involvement, and on one day to get something done.” He added that it would not be
enough just to be tidy for one day. “We want to change people’s attitudes,” said Wackman.

‘Artists Series’: Should Students Do Selecting?

AN ANALYSIS
By TY TIPPETT

The Artist Series season is over for this year. This should not come as a surprising disappointment to the Davidson
student body, for most of our educated gentlemen regularly let the season pass without seeing a single performance.

The Artist Series program is handled by a committee composed of seven professors, two students, and four others from the
college administration.

At the present time, the selecting and booking of the artists are done almost exclusively by two members of that
committee — Richardson Professor of Music Donald Plott and C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union. These men differ
slightly on the future approach to the Artist Series. Smith would like to see the selection of the artists controlled
by students.

“The artists should be chosen and presented by theStudents, and only the contract negotiations should be handled by non-students,” said
Smith, who feels that the faculty could help in an advisory capacity, however. Plott agrees that greater student involvement would
be beneficial and that the faculty role could be reduced to an advisory one. But because of the educational and
cultural obligations of the Artist Series, he says, the faculty committee should have the right to veto any selection by
a student committee that they felt unwise. He also notes that agents prefer to deal with permanent contacts that they
can work with over a number of years, not students who pass through in four years. Smith agrees on this
point and feels that continuing contacts should negotiate with the artist to ensure, among other things, that students don’t get
robbed. Smith, however, leans toward a much greater degree (See ARTISTS, Page 6).

Everyone’s responsibility.” Whether anyone's attitude was changed by the Earth Day demonstrations is difficult to determine. Neil Coghill, organizer of
the anti-automobile leaflet campaign, found that only five students showed up Wednesday afternoon to leaflet cars. The car leafleteers were
posted at the entrances of the campus to pass out slips of paper requesting that people not drive their cars,
and to sell a green and yellow bumper sticker saying, “Did you thank a green plant today?” When Instructor of
South Asian Studies Frederick Gaige drove up to the Jackson Court entrance on Concord Road, he was approached to buy
a sticker for forty cents. “I’d rather save my forty cents for the war issue,” he said, “something with a
little less public support.” When Associate Professor of Bible and Religion R. David Kaylor rode up on his bicycle and
was offered a sticker, he said, “Isn’t it kind of inconsistent to pass out bumper stickers to put on cars
saying ‘Stamp out air pollution?’”

The College Union gave the organizers of Earth Day full cooperation in the day’s activities. The Union Cafeteria provided three
large garbage cans full of used plastic cups from the previous day’s meals as an exhibit of the huge amounts
of trash that industrial society produces. In order to keep the momentum of Earth Day alive, the organizers of the
movement are planning a teach-in on May 5, featuring Assistant Professor of Biology David C. Grant and Professor of Economics
Cora L. Nelson, with U.S. Rep. Nick Galifianakis of Durham, N.C. tentatively scheduled to speak.

Associate Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, was elected chairman of the Davidson Judicial District Association. The new committee The board set
up a blue ribbon panel to study the governance of the college, which will investigate structures of responsibility and authority
in the college and offer recommendations for clarification and simplification of the whole structure. In other action, the trustees recommended
that a session comprising representatives from the student body, the faculty, and the trustees be held prior to the Oct.
1970 meeting of the board in order that current college issues can be discussed.

Communications Hall moved into the chairmanship from the position of vice-chairman of the trustees. He was also chairman of the
Education Committee for the trustees. Educated at Memphis Southwestern where he received his A.B., D.D., and was a member of
Phi Beta Kappa, Hall also attended Louisville Presbyterian Seminary where he obtained his B.D., and then went to the University
of Edinburgh in Scotland where he received his Ph.D. In addition to serving on Davidson's board of trustees since 1955,
Hall also served on the board of trustees at St. Andrews College as well as that of Union Theological Seminary.

An active member of the General White Will Get New Assistant Peter V. Sterling, director of studies at a preparatory
school in New Hampton, N.H., will become assistant director of admissions and financial aid next fall. Sterling graduated from Davidson
in 1960 and received his master’s degree on a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship from Georgetown University. At Davidson, Sterling was a
member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, business manager of the Quips and Cranks yearbook, a staff member of THE DAVIDSONIAN,
and a member of the soccer team. He participated in the Washington semester program as a political science major and
was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He served for a year as an aide to Sen. Paul Douglas (D-Ill), then
taught history in 1962-63 at Fryeburg (Maine) Academy, a boarding school for boys. In 1963 he became a history teacher
at New Hampton School, was named chairman of the department in 1965, and assumed his present position in 1968. Among
his present responsibilities is the counseling of students, most of whom are preparing for admission to college. “Mr. Sterling’s valuable
experience in counseling and education will make him a welcome addition to our staff,” said H. Edmunds White, Davidson’s director
of admissions and financial aid. “I thought very highly of him when I knew him as a student, and I
look forward with anticipation to his return to the campus.”

Of trustees. An alumnus of the 1943 class of Davidson, Phillips also attended the University of North Carolina School of
Law receiving his J.D. in 1948. After practicing for ten years and teaching for 4 years, Phillips has served as
Dean of the UNC School of Law since July 1964. William F. Mulliss, an attorney in Charlotte, was re Lingle
as chairman. Trustee vice chairman Phillips will serve as the trustee representative on the committee. Representing the students will be
the president of the student body. A faculty member will be chosen by the Faculty Executive Committee, and President Samuel
R. Spencer Jr. will appoint a member of the college administration to the committee.

Trustees Approve New Professors Four new appointments to the faculty and two promotions were approved by the trustees in today’s
meeting. The promotion of Charles K. Lloyd, an assistant professor of English, to an associate and the Russell E. Walls,
a psychology instructor, to the position of status, promotion of assistant professor, were approved by the trustees and become effective
July 1. Edward L. Palmer, an assistant professor of psychology at Western Maryland College since 1968, is expected to teach
social psychology at Davidson. Palmer, who hopes to receive his doctorate in social psychology in August from Ohio University, is
a graduate of Gettysburg College and Gettysburg Seminary. He has degrees in Business Administration (B.A.), Practical Theology (B.A.), and Clinical
Psychology (M.A.), and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa membership while at Gettysburg. Twenty-six-year-old Thomas Lominac, a candidate for his
doctorate in mathematics from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill within the year, has been offered a one-year
appointment to the faculty. Larry L. Ligo will become an assistant professor of art next fall, coming to Davidson from
a graduate teaching assistantship at UNC, where he is completing work on his Ph.D. in art history. The addition to
the philosophy department is John Young, who is presently doing research as a Fulbright Scholar at the University of London.
Young, who has had previous teaching experience at John Carroll University and the University of Virginia, received an M.A. and
Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Virginia. He was elected into Phi Beta Kappa at John Carroll.

Admissions Proposal Passes Test A proposal to provide for student membership on the faculty Admissions Committee has received a favorable
vote in its first hearing before the faculty. The Admissions Committee proposal was taken up in last Monday's faculty meeting
as an amendment to the faculty constitution. An amendment must receive two favorable readings, of which Monday's action was the
first. It passed by a vote of 39 to 16, according to Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston. It
must face another reading, at which time a three-fourths vote is required. The trustees must approve the change. A move
to rescind the rule on reporting class absences was defeated by a vote of 26 to 20. The present policy,
upheld by the faculty, allows professors to set any policy on class attendance, but they must report the number of
absences along with the student's final grade in the course.
