Page Six

(Staff photo by Lyle)

EARL MacCORMAC ON SCIENCE
Drawing pearls of wisdom from the ‘Fabled Pool of Philosophy.’

(Continued From Page 1)

In the light of the illegible, it provides complex play. Perhaps “Macbeth” offers a solution to the problem of spiritual
pollution. The professional performance of Shakespeare’s text in Hodson Hall was the use of strobe lights. Also of notice is
Macbeth’s (Maureen Court) force in the final act.

(Continued From Page 1)

The defendant stated that he did not think the law could stop “the drug problem” by its present methods. “Drugs
should not be a legal question so much as a social question,” he said. “If Davidson College is going to
continue with any kind of court system, it needs to be drastically changed.” He continued, “I don’t think the school
is willing to back up those rules (drugs). If they did, they would have 200 casts lined up.” Also seen
under the piercing flashes of the strobe, the murder of Macduff's family has a reality which it could not otherwise
achieve. Any review of “Macbeth” must consider this.

SUBSCRIBERS
The editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN wish to apologize to our off-campus subscribers for the delay in mailing the Feb. 13
issue of the paper. Because of a little ill luck on that day, the papers were delayed in the printing
shop and did not reach our circulation managers at the proper time. Such delays are regrettable and we hope to
be able to eliminate them entirely in the future.

REPORTERS
To our campus followers, we would like to extend an invitation to join our staff as writers or reviewers. With
the staff reduced by the removal by retirement of many of our senior staffers, now is an especially good time
to begin working if you have the interest. If the idea sounds good, drop by our office this Sunday night
at 10 for our staff meeting or contact anyone on the staff.

ORGY OF THOUGHT: Humenean Symposium Ponders Particles, Poetry, Arts, Ecology
By NEIL COGHILL and STEVE CROSS

“An orgy of thought” was the phrase used to describe the discussion symposium on “Science and the Humanities” presented by
the Eumenean Society. Monday night, Dr. Robert Manning, assistant professor of physics, spoke on “The Politics of Particles: Totalitarianism and
Time Travel,” and was followed by Dr. Earl MacCormac, associate professor of philosophy, whose topic was “The Poetry of Science.”
Tuesday, the first speech was by Dr. David Grant, assistant professor of biology, who discussed “The Ecological Middle Man and
the Technological Rat Race.” Dr. Frank Bliss, professor of English, concluded the program with “The Science of Poetry.” Both nights,
the lectures were followed by an open question and discussion period.

The essence of Manning’s speech involved the totalitarian principle that “everything not forbidden is compulsory.” One must look at the
equations of the universe. If they do not predict a phenomenon, it must not exist. To illustrate this, he used
the example of certain subatomic particles emitted from the nucleus, postulated in the 1930s to rationalize the law of conservation
of energy in the light of Einstein’s theory of relativity. 18 years later, they were actually found to exist. Apparently,
this principle of totalitarianism can be applied outside the world of physics to the pattern of human thought; that which
is not disallowed by pre-existing law is necessarily so. Manning discussed particles which travel faster than light and their implications.

Senate Meeting
(Continued From Page 1)

Jackson Drops Congress
William E. Jackson, assistant professor of political science, dropped out of the 9th District Democratic congressional race, leaving Charlotte television
executive Cy Bahakel uncontested in the primary race for office. “A candidacy is a public trust,” Jackson said in a
prepared statement. “And I am now compelled to recognize that the time and resources necessary for a primary race designed
to bring victory on May 2 are beyond my reach. My responsibilities at Davidson College first claim upon me for
the duration of the school year; I would have it no other way,” he concluded.

Jackson teaches a political science course on “The Legislative Process” which deals with the functions and operations of Congress and
its relationship to the other branches of the government. When Jackson announced, many Mecklenburg Democrats were still hesitating whether the
party should support a candidate against Rep. Charles R. Jonas of Lincolnton, who has held office since 1952. Jackson was
sized up by local Democrats as a less than dazzling candidate. Had Jackson run, his campaign would have been financed
on a shoestring. His $425 filing fee was to be raised at a neighborhood tea. Nonetheless, he would have had
the enthusiastic volunteer support of many students on the Davidson College campus. He added in his announcement, however, that “I
find it both incredible and unacceptable that a seat in the House of Representatives should go uncontested.”

Robertson Fills Court Post
The SGA Senate confirmed Tuesday night the appointment of sophomore Tom Robertson to fill a vacancy on the College Court
of Appeals. The last vacancy was created last week with the resignation of sophomore Lawrence Wilkinson, who resigned in order
to study in Greece during the spring term and in France next year. Robertson comes to the court scarcely a
week before the court will hear its appeal from the Honor Court. (See lead story, page 1) He did not
participate in the drug cases recently decided by the Court of Appeals.

The Code of Responsibility specifies that vacancies be filled by a person from the same class as the person leaving
the court. Three students and three faculty members comprise the Court of Appeals, one student each from Sophomore, Junior, and
Senior Classes. Student members of the court are appointed by the Senate Executive Committee from the ranks of the SGA
Senate, and must be confirmed by the Senate. Current members of the court are Dean of the Faculty Frontis W.
Johnston (chairman), English professors Frank W. Bliss and Richard C. Cole, senior Cliff.

Associate Editors:
JOHN FINE
RUSS MERRITT
STEVE ROADY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
JOHN McLEAN

Sports Editor:
DON PARMAN

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

News Editor:
NEIL COGHILL

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Assistant Business Manager:
TED HEEFNER

Assistant Sports Editors:
ERNIE SHIPE
A. W. TURNER

Photographers:
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
CULLUM ROGERS

Contributors this week:
Bill Eskridge, Dick Downey, Bill Davenport, Rick Hart, Chris Johnson, Scott Davidson, and George Kaneklides.Duke, junior Tom Vernon, and sophomore
Tom Robertson, are frustrated in finding an outlet for their energies that would take advantage of such a policy. He
cited the fact that varsity practices and intramural games now monopolize the hours during which the gym is open and
students have no classes or any other study. According to Alexander, a number of schools are already providing such a
service for their students. After some questions and comments on the practicality of this action, Alexander and freshman Senator Bob
Edmonds were appointed to investigate the cost of an open gym and to consider alternatives such as extended hours.

In other matters, a treasurer’s report showed a surplus of $132.13 from the Hobbie administration, of which approximately $60 remains.
In addition to this, the SGA has a deposit of $2000 in the college treasury. The budget for 1970-1971 is
$2525. It was announced that Cecil Burney will attend the Southern Universities SGA conference in Charlotte on Saturday.

A request for funds by three students to visit Wellesley College in Boston to investigate student exchange similar to the
Eight College Consortium was denied.

Edmonson To Teach History

C. Earl Edmondson, assistant professor of history at UNC-Chapel Hill, will become assistant professor of history at Davidson College in
the fall of 1970. He received a B.A. with special distinction from Mississippi College; studied as a Fulbright Fellow in
Innsbruck, Austria; and studied at Duke University as a Woodrow Wilson Fellow and a James B. Duke Fellow. He received
his Ph.D. in 1966 from Duke in the field of Modern European history.

“We are pleased to have a man of Mr. Edmondson’s qualifications join our faculty,” commented College President Samuel R. Spencer
Jr. “He comes to us with very high recommendations.” Edmondson served as an instructor at UNC-Chapel Hill during 1964-66 and
became an assistant professor in 1966. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa at Duke in 1966 and is a
member of the American Historical Association and the Central European Historical Association. Both his master’s and his doctoral thesis concerned
the history of Austria in international politics. He is 33 years old, married, and has two children.

practical applications. “We could communicate with the nearest stars almost instantaneously,” he said. It would take about four years and
four months by conventional means. “I suppose that that has its benefits; I'm not really sure,” Manning said.

MacCormac rested his argument of the “poetry of science” on the idea that science, like poetry, is based on metaphor.
Just as a poet’s metaphors are dependent upon the interpretation of the words he chooses, the meaning of a scientist's
theory lies in the terms he uses. In both science and poetry, words change their meaning gradually “by their association
in context with other words.” Therefore, in both cases, when a new “metaphor” is introduced, its only “absurdness lies in
its suggestiveness” of things not yet experienced. Furthermore, MacCormac stated that “if the meaning of the term is dependent on
the theory, and the theory changes, the term changes with the new theory.” MacCormac concluded that science may be mathematical
or conceptual, but it is not too different from poetry.

Grant introduced his lecture on “The Ecological Middle Man and the Technological Rat Race” with a somewhat unromantic but realistic
interpretation of Omar Khayyam’s “a loaf of bread, a jug of wine...” The bread comes from grain, which requires fertilization,
which is a major source of fresh water pollution. Furthermore, insects attracted by the abundance of grain necessitate the use
of pesticides (DDT) whose dangers we are all aware of. The baking industry, like any other industry, makes excessive power
demands, besides contributing to atmospheric and water pollution. The food additives which keep the bread fresh have dubious effects on
the body. Finally, the internal combustion engines which deliver the bread are our greatest source of air pollution.

Using a “Science of Concrete points,” the ecologist, Grant, showed that poems are not unlike science. Applying this to man,
we see a biospheric system of land no longer suitable for most species, including dinosaurs. The final lecture, by Bliss,
presented a range of selections to illustrate his point that data for responding to what is. “Most people cannot, or
do not understand what the artist is doing. He has given the world new data, new evidence, for what it
is to be.” The poet is no different from a scientist presented with new material which he uses. His chief
objective is to achieve a balance before the limit is reached because it will be too late then.

Grant concluded with an analysis of the theory of succession. This is the procession of one form of life after
another, in which the species modifies the environment to the extent that it is suitable for another species. We know
a great deal about “man in space” now, Bliss concluded, but very little about “man in tenements.”

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristorante
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.

STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N. C.

MAKE YOUR FIRST STOP
G. W. STOWE'S ESSO
For All Your Motoring Needs
“We Know Your Car Like A Book”
Main & South Streets
Phone 892-9304

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

OWL'S LOUNGE
Located At Baker's Service Station
On Highway 115 Between Cornelius & Huntersville
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
Monday - Saturday 6 to 12 p.m.
Sunday 2 to 12 p.m.
HAPPY HOUR
Monday - Thursday 9:30 to 10:30 p.m.
Sunday 4 to 6 p.m.
WE WELCOME DAVIDSON STUDENTS BY FEATURING
The Blue Sky Committee
Friday, Feb. 20, 8 to 12 p.m.
Purple Paradox
Saturday 8 to 12 p.m.

ANSWER MAN BOB STONE
What is the easiest way to pay life insurance premiums?
A Northwestern Mutual Life has a unique plan which lets you pick your own payment schedule. What's more, you’re never
faced with a whole year’s premium all at one time. I'd like to explain how our insurance Service Account (ISA)
actually makes it easier for you to pay your life insurance premiums. Whether you have one Northwestern Mutual Life policy
or several, you may pay your total premiums in one standard amount, monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually. If you wish,
you may authorize your bank to handle these ISA payments for you automatically through your checking account. For full particulars
on this and other NML advantages, please get in touch with me. I will be happy to answer your life
insurance questions.
Robert T. Stone
Representing
The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company
North Main 892-1424
