TALE OF AN AFTERNOON (Staff photo by Davidson) Trinity’s LeFlore shakes loose from a Wildcat defender as was often the case in Davidson’s 20-9 loss.

WCU Runners Blank Davidson
By HAL CANTER
Sports Writer

The Davidson cross country team was defeated last Tuesday by an overwhelming show of strength on the part of Western Carolina University. Western Carolina demonstrated their proficiency in the five-mile race by taking the first 10 places, which left them with a perfect score. Coach Sterling Martin said that Western Carolina was much stronger than he anticipated.

Three freshmen from Western Carolina finished first through third. Second place Terry Helms and third place Tom Gibbons are from Charlotte. The first two runners, Ben Bailey and Helms, broke the record for the cross course at the meet. Bailey's winning time was 26:23. Martin concluded that Western Carolina will be a top contender at the North Carolina state meet this year. They have been building a strong cross country program for the past few years and their present team is the result.

One advantage Western Carolina had over the Davidson team was that the course run Tuesday was over pavement and asphalt, which the Davidson runners are not used to. The Davidson cross country team runs on a grass course. Martin said he was pleased with Howard Boyd, who was the top runner of Davidson. Martin also said that Joe Shibley is improving. Ran Coble had trouble with a stitch in his leg but he recovered during the race.

Today at 4 p.m., the cross country team will be running against Furman University and Berry College at Furman. Martin said that there is a hopeful chance of beating Berry. He mentioned that it would be a significant achievement to run strong and come out close with Furman. He said that Furman has two outstanding players. Martin thinks Boyd and Shibley will develop into front runners for Davidson. He says he is optimistic and has the basis of a strong team in three freshmen and the upperclassmen.

Betas Take Golf Tourney; Delts Dominate Flickerball

The Betas claimed the annual IMAC golf tournament championship, played Monday at Cowen’s Ford Country Club. John Doulas, Skip Auld, Bill Burwell, and Steve Engstrom combined for a 153-stroke total over the 6,814-yard course. Following the Betas were the SAE’s with a 158. The Sig Eps finished third by netting a 160. Jim Ray, a freshman from Waynesville, was the top individual as he carded a 79. Ray represented the Cannon I team. Tom Jeter of the KA’s finished second with an 80.

The Sig Eps and the Delts continue to dominate their respective divisions in flickerball. The Sig Eps upped their record in Davidson B play to 7-0 by claiming a 32-0 victory over the Gamms on Wednesday. However, the Kappa Sigs remained tied with them by maintaining a 6-0 worksheet. Both the Sigs and the SPE’s have the Pikas breathing down their necks.

TRYOUTS
Coach Neil McGeachy has announced that tryouts for the freshman basketball team are scheduled to begin on Thursday, October 15. Any freshmen interested in trying out but who has not contacted McGeachy should see him by October 12. Coach Tom Stevens has also announced that there will be a meeting of all persons interested in trying out for the swimming team. Anyone interested should meet with Stevens at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, October 13 at the balcony of Johnston Gym.down their necks. The Pikas own a 5-1 record. The SPE’s and Sigs face each other this afternoon in a contest that could probably decide the division title. The Delts picked up their seventh win on Wednesday by crushing the Sigma Nus, 53-0.

The Davidsonian - October 9, 1970

Poor Execution Disappoints Fagg

A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

“Poor execution,” said Dave Fagg. “We had poor execution on both offense and defense." The result was a disappointing 20-9 loss to Trinity College last Saturday in the home opener. After opening the season with a 14-5 win over Richmond, the gridders greatly disappointed the first-year head coach.

“We played well enough on defense to win a lot of games,” said Fagg, “but not the one against Trinity. We had a problem in executing our defensive stunts and we had poor tackling. We were not sharp in reaction or attitude.”

“There were several outstanding performers on defense in the Trinity game. John Barbee blocked two punts, Rick Hawarah saved a touchdown with an interception, and Mike Sikes ran back an interception for a touchdown.”

The offensive unit failed to score against Trinity. “We managed to stop ourselves every time we got the football," Fagg said. “We helped Trinity's defense every time we had the ball.”

“Mark Thompson is coming on real strong. He's gaining confidence and is on his way to having the kind of season we predicted he would have. I don't think he got the support he needed Saturday. The pass protection broke down. Rick Lyon and Mike Mikolayunas did look good catching the ball, but our offensive line play was below its capability.”

Fagg cited two breaks which went against Davidson and hurt them in the Trinity game. Jimmy Hardison, the outstanding sophomore defender, was injured early in the game, and Ken Totherow was forced to move to the middle linebacker spot, a position foreign to him.

The biggest break, though, occurred on one of the outstanding defensive plays by Davidson. With Trinity deep in its own territory, John Barbee blocked a punt. But the ball rolled all the way through the end zone, giving the ‘Cats two points, but depriving them of a chance for a touchdown. Then the Trinity punter booted a tremendous kick 70 yards, putting the Wildcats in a hole on their own 10-yard line.

Despite being so disappointed, Fagg was optimistic about the future: “We'll be back,” he promised.

JV Opens

Davidson’s junior football team opens its two-game schedule with a 2 p.m. game today at Western Carolina. Coach Gene McEver’s freshman squad will get its season underway on Oct. 16 against Evans College on Richardson Field. The freshman will play a five-game schedule.

Net Team Selected

Tennis tryouts were completed this week as Coach Harry Fogleman decided to carry a ten-man team. The team consists of senior Jeff Chetwood, Jim Cantrell, and Harlan Day; junior Frank Dana; sophomores David Weaver, Bob Koury, Hy Lankenau, and Gray Smith; freshmen Bill Allen, and Rene Castelein, an international student from the Netherlands. Team practice begins February 15, with the first match taking place in Florida on March 15.

HOMECOMING!

Let us freshen your impression with good cleaning of your sport clothes. Also, we handle your laundered shirts.

Jackson Cleaners
Depot St., Just beyond The Coffee Cup

PANTS EAST
1522 East Fourth St.
“Largest selection of flares, jeans, bell-bottoms in Charlotte”
Owned & Operated by people who know what you want.