Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR NOVEMBER 6, 1970

More For The Money

Anyone connected with Davidson knows that we could use more money. The cancellation of four major scholarship funds recently has
served to emphasize this need. Catalogue increases on a significant scale are as certain as death and taxes, even more
perhaps. For those reasons, the hiring of a new vice president, this one in charge of finances and fund raising,
seems to indicate a welcome determination to solve these problems. We welcome Cornell to our community and wish him great
and immediate success in his endeavors.

Yet at the same time, students cannot help but begin to wonder at the expanding corporate structure threatening to engulf
South Chambers. President Spencer now has an assistant and two vice presidents more than he had last year. We have
a large new computer, costing several thousand dollars a month, which is more noted for its failures than its successes.
We have a new football fund raiser who is still more than 75 percent away from his end-of-the-year goal.

What is most needed now from this expanding bureaucracy is action, not more expansion. If action does not come, some
serious fat trimming and consolidation of operations would seem to be in order. Otherwise, increasing tuition will soon push costs
beyond acceptable bounds, and rising financial aid costs or decreasing student diversity could well combine to push this college right
off the map of reputable liberal arts colleges.

Alternatives To Grading

Beginning this fall term, Stanford University has joined the growing list of colleges that have taken steps to eliminate emphasis
on grades in their educational systems. It is time that such changes were considered for Davidson as well.

Along with the elimination of the penalty F, the system provides for grades of A, B, and C with no
plus or minus grades and with no grade point averages. These changes too would be ones Davidson could well use
to improve the “exciting and challenging experience” which college officials claim Davidson’s education to be.

Too often courses here degenerate into a contest between professor and student. On the one hand, the professor is pretending
to produce tests that purport to be numerical indications of the student’s knowledge. On the other hand are the students,
worried over points, not knowledge, but points. By the time the end of the term arrives, most students can not
only quote their averages in every course but can also tell you how many points they need on the final
reviews or exams to get the total number of points that they, for one reason or another, want from the
course.

The nauseating absurdity of the whole procedure of a Davidson education is then officially promoted by the registrar’s office, which
not only requires these points totals to be reported but which refines them to the fourth decimal place. The fourth
decimal place, it is important to remember, is the exact precise value of one ten-thousandth of the knowledge to be
gained from any course here at Davidson.

Such a system is not in keeping with any claims of true educational excitement or challenge. Perhaps if these egregious
faults in our system could be eliminated, real progress could be made on further educational reforms including off-campus work for
graduation credit, more independent work, eliminating archaic attendance rules, and the complete abolition of the testing system as an accepted
method of educational measurement in any form.

It is time now, when Davidson is fond of boasting of its educational progress over the past several years, to
seriously consider adopting changes such as those at Stanford and elsewhere to make Davidson an educational institution rather than an
institutional education.

JOE SMITH

Power Of Youth Requires Impending Age Of Maturity

We have all heard it a thousand times. Over creamed chicken and apple pie at the yearly Good Citizenship Banquet,
on the hustings, and in church, the message is always the same. Our young people, it is said, are the
leaders of the future. Instant sentimentality and security in the knowledge of one’s mission in life.

In spite of the almost absurd triviality of the statement, it has become an article of faith in our society.
I suspect that the majority of Americans, even now, associate youth with hope rather than destruction. So all of this
talk about power strikes me as rather absurd. Sooner than many of us might wish, we will have power: our
public faith welcomes it, simple chronology demands it.

Now the question of what we will do with this power, once attained, has not been given the attention it
deserves by anyone on either side of the generation gap. Although some may believe that an Age of Realization will
dawn as the generation now in college reaches thirty, I imagine that we will see the same old difficulties confronting
some new faces. In light of the troubles which Americais enduring at present, an Age of Maturity would seem to
be more in order. By this is meant an era in which we learn to accept our limitations and to
work within them for the betterment of life in America. What we are speaking of here is, for one thing,
the death of Utopianism. As noted last week, we have promised ourselves too much and are now paying the price
for it. The task facing future leaders is to define those things the government can do and those with which
it can do nothing. This will involve a sacrifice which may be too much for politicians of all ages, the
toning down of rhetoric in favor of rationality. The public discussion which needs to be conducted on the nature and
extent of our limitations, for they are far from self-evident, cannot take place as long as mindless sloganeering and boundless
promises reign supreme in American political life. In order to avoid the kind of dissatisfaction which plagues us at present,
leadership in the future must involve teaching more than propagandizing, realism rather than false hope.

Yet the recognition of limitations does not necessarily imply impotence in the face of social and political problems. Limits, if
they can be defined, would be the boundaries within which effective action could take place. Thus, the second necessary characteristic
of leadership in the Age of Maturity would be the ability to achieve those things which it defines as possible.
The prime task of leadership would be to make its proposals work, rather than image creation. The pragmatic test would
be the basis of judgment: those things would be cast aside which did not fulfill their promised function. Programs, in
other words, would cease to be part of their sponsors’ egos. The Age of Maturity is a pipedream, of course,
based on the false assumption that man will somehow be better tomorrow than he is today. Yet, if we are
serious about justifying the public faith in our potential, it might not be a bad goal to try for.

Frankly Speaking

The following are the words and views of a friend and past editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Franklin Anderson.

Since the mid-October bombing at Harvard, there have been 80 bomb scares at Boston University where I am a student.
At first, evacuation of threatened buildings was required. Some people were bodily removed from their dorm. But with up to
12 scares a day, they now just notify occupants of the threat and let you leave if you want. Violence
isn’t the way, just and most obviously because it won't work. The people who have the weapons (the means of
violence) in this country are the army, police, national guard, etc., but advocates of revolution have alienated them, maligning them
as pigs and bombing them.

As I see it, we have three possible courses of action to change the American situation:

1. Revolution by abandoning the system may have some validity but is faced with two problems. First, as observed above,
the system is virtually unassailable from without, and, secondly, there is the very real danger of replacing one disaster with
another.

2. Renewal is basically patchwork. It is using rubber bands and scotch tape to keep a machine running even though
it should be replaced.

3. Reform involves stepping outside the system to examine it, figuring out what needs doing; stepping back in and doing
it. This is the most difficult of the three: it is most subject to the subtle treachery of circumstances and
environment. Nevertheless, reform does have the advantage of allowing one to keep the good that is present in this system
and in any system, while ripping out the evil within it. With revolution, you lose all of the system, but
in replacing, you may easily restore the evil in other forms.

We are frustrated because, in a sense, we are undertaking two transformations at once: lifestyle and politics. By lifestyle, I
mean everything from hair and dress to ethics, work, and the language we use. Often political transformations are hampered by
those in lifestyles, such as long-hairs campaigning for progressive candidates.

It is urgent that America be convinced that human life, love, justice, truth, joy, peace—in short, all that is worthwhile
and good—is more important than any economic or political institution. We need to change not just laws but also people.
Though structural changes do facilitate attitude alteration (for example, integration), and it is vitally important to incorporate these attitudes within
the system, the work is fruitless if the American psyche remains authoritarian, intolerant, and narrow.

P.S. Yes, I would like to get rid of the system and all its hassles and replace it with nothing.
It is an enchanting thought, but deceiving. You don’t have to believe in original sin to realize the impossibility—but conversely,
use every opportunity you get to dump the repressive, inhuman parts of it, and maybe we'll all be a little
better off.
