Page Four May 8, 1970 The Davidsonian

Foremost Colleges Scrap Fraternities

AN ANALYSIS
By RUSS MERRITT
Associate Editor

ED. NOTE: This is the third in a series of four articles on "Fraternities In Crisis."

As an American institution, the college fraternity has displayed an amazing resilience. Created as a tightly-knit Christian fellowship to fill the social and emotional void of college life, it has become a staple of campus life for hundreds of colleges and universities across the nation. Recently, however, the tide has begun to turn strongly against the national fraternities on college campuses, and by all indications, this anti-fraternity movement sweeping the nation is still far from its peak.

Parade Magazine was one of the first official publications to recognize it when three years ago an article appearing on its pages stated that the national fraternity system, as it presently stands, will not be either necessary or desirable in a very few years. Other sources have begun studying the situation, and most have come to the conclusions that the present fraternity system is indeed going to have to accept several very basic and radical changes or else pass from the college campus.

Already a great many campuses have witnessed the death of their fraternity systems. Throughout the Northeast, notably in the Ivy League, fraternities have either never gotten a foothold on campus or have long since been forced either by student disinterest or administrative decree to leave. In the West as well, the leading campuses are going through fraternity transition periods. Only in the Midwest and the South, where ritual and tradition still have great meaning to many students, are fraternities not dying by any drastic measures.

There are a great many reasons behind this demise of national fraternities that is growing more and more rapidly each school year. Foremost in the list of anti-fraternity grievances is the racial and religious discriminatory policies of many, if not most, of the national fraternities. Time Magazine in 1966 pointed out that racial exclusion by fraternities, besides being illegal, was causing many student liberals to shun pledging the selective groups and to take the cause of the anti-fraternity forces.

Another complaint concerning fraternities, closely related to discrimination, has been the means of selection used by fraternities, most commonly the blackball system. "Fraternities can rationalize and apologize forever," Jerome Rodnitzsky, a psychologist, wrote in School and Society, "but in actuality, the ability of one member to enact his secret prejudices will perpetuate discrimination and rejection practices within the fraternity system."

In other words, despite arguments to the contrary, the national fraternity is no longer as influential an element on college campuses across the nation as it once was. It is, rather, a rising power in lesser schools, and a dying or dead force in most of the nation's leading educational institutions.

By DAN GRAHAM
Staff Writer

Art of, or rather about, the backwoods South has given us much for moral rumination: raking over poverty, ignorance, the emotion and superstition and prejudice, it has turned over its Willie Starks and Elmer Gantries, sometimes with great success. But "Dark of the Moon," though richly endowed with the trappings of sociological art, resists moralizing. If one becomes indignant about accusations of witchery, the next scene will present a witch; or the harsh portrayal of prejudice will dissolve into a festive mood and catch the viewer up in its bawdy banter.

Ed Dobbs as John, the witch-boy temporarily turned human, dominates the stage with his stature. But he plays the role with a seasoned simplicity which at times belies the paradox of his character.

Program Probes Writer’s Dilemma
By BILL ESKRIDGE
Staff Writer

The Philanthropic Literary Society will present a symposium entitled "The Christ-Haunted South" in Phi Hall at 7:30 p.m. on May 11 and 12. The name of the symposium was taken from an essay by Flannery O'Connor; the symposium itself will deal with an author's predicament writing in the South.

In addition, the Philanthropic Society will delve into the religious situation in the South and the influence of religion in the writings of the South. The guest lecturers include Walter Sullivan, professor of English at Vanderbilt University; Lewis Simpson, the editor of the "Southern Review" and a professor of English at Louisiana State University; and George Core, former Davidson professor and new director of the University of Georgia Press. Two Davidson professors will also lecture: J. W. Cannon, Professor of Bible and Religion, and Chalmers G. Davidson, professor of history.

On Monday, Davidson will open the symposium, to be followed by Rhodes, who will discuss Southern religion. Sullivan will then discuss "Religion in Southern Novelists." On Tuesday, Simpson will discuss "Order and Alienation in Southern Letters." Core will then consider the particular case of "Flannery O'Connor, a Christian Novelist."

Robert Bryan, president of the Phi Society, said that the subject was "of great interest to all of us and to all members of the student body. It is a new...

Senate Endorsement
(Continued From Page 1)

and Bob Edmunds voted against the measure. The Senate also passed resolutions concerning the vigil held by three professors at the Post Office and the massacre of students by National Guardsmen at Kent State University.

The Kent State statement expressed "deep sympathy to the families and friends of the four Kent State students slain this Monday." "This incident points to a question which goes beyond the Kent State campus and challenges the general academic community." Mills, Norris, Clodfelter, Bailey, Cliff Duke, Upchurch, Alexander, Peterson, Mayfield, and Price voted for the Kent State resolution. Senators Burney and Ralston opposed the statement on grounds that it was not strong enough in pointing the blame to authorities such as the National Guard.

The resolution supporting the Kent State campus and the Post Office vigil passed by a vote of 10 to 3. It states: "We deplore the unwillingness of the President and his administration to admit the right of such dissent from policies which have doubtful justification and are dangerous to the prospects of peace both in Asia and in the United States."

The Senate decided not to collectively endorse a stronger statement against Nixon being drafted by Senator Clodfelter. He instead circulated the stronger statement as a petition among senators and students.

The Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors:
RUSS MERRITT
STEVE ROADY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH
TOM VERNON

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
JOHN McLEAN

Sports Editor:
DON PARMAN

News Editor:
SCOTT DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Assistant Sports Editors:
ERNIE SHIPE
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Photographers:
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS

Staff Writers:
Jeff Allender, Bill Beckman, Bill Davenport, Bill Eskridge, John Fine, Dan Graham, Rick Hart, Don Hoyt, George Kaneklides, and Tom Sinks.

Sports Writers:
Howard Boyd, Rick Bush, Billy Cobb, Dick Downey, and Charlie Terrell.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

approach to the study of letters.” Symposium writer's in the Georgia professors. They are Timmons Chosen Editor Tim Timmons was elected to be the editor of the 1971 Quips and Cranks in last week's election. Timmons is a rising senior from Charlotte. Also selected in the election were cheerleaders from the classes of '71, '72, and '73. Senior cheerleaders for next year will be Jim Blair, Charlie Brown, and Will Ravenel. Rising juniors chosen to be cheerleaders were Bill Gupton, Bill Moseley, and Mike Stovall. Two senators were also picked in the elections. Bill Mayfield was elected without opposition to be a senator from West Belk. Chip Price was the victor in the race for senator from Center Belk.

PUT 'EM UP Jeff Allender challenges Ed Dobbs to a fight in “Dark of the Moon.”

Graham Praises Spirit Of ‘Dark Of The Moon’ situation. Ann Holland as Barbara Allen, town tramp reformed and become John's wife, acts out her part with a blazing intensity which gives force to the entire play. And the townspeople are so effective in their folksy interactions that the town seems to take on a life of its own. They coax and scold John and Marvin when they square off to fight, they trade gossip, and they are shocked and delighted by wrongdoing. The rich, human life of the town stands in sharp contrast to the cold peak where the Conjur Man (Sam Johnson) eerily creaks about. The magnificent silhouette of the twisted, gnarled, and blasted tree against a blue backdrop seems symbolic of the wild world of the imagination that exists away from town. The sound effects of whistling wind, good simulations of lighting, and the lithe forms of Nancy Smith and Betsy Blackwell as witches complete the scene. “Dark of the Moon” is about the South, but not by way of criticizing it, or even presenting Southern life. It is a leap of imagination which, like the ballad which twines through the play, captures the spirit of the backwoods—it combines its intense vitality with its dark uncertainties. Just when you think you grasp the life of the backwoods, like John the witch-boy, it slips away, as evanescent and impalpable as the mountain mists.

(Continued From Page 1) at the tragedy at Kent State.” Spencer was drafting a personal letter to Nixon, and he authorized the college flag to be flown at half-mast Thursday and Friday, in response to the student Senate’s resolution on Cambodia. Spencer also stated that “Concern for rights and freedom elsewhere must not be used to rationalize a denial of rights and freedom of those about us.” “There must be no interference,” Spencer added, “with legitimate activities of anyone on the campus.” Spencer’s authorization to lower the college flag apparently ended a free-for-all which went on between students and the ROTC Wednesday morning. When students lowered the flag, ROTC cadre raised it again, and finally locked the flag at full mast. When the flag was taken down at sundown, students put up another American flag at half-staff, and locked it in position with a padlock of their own. During the night, some students not sympathetic to the protests broke the padlock and removed the flag. It flew at half-mast, as Spencer directed, most of the day Thursday. Davidson students were invited to participate in a mass rally and peace march to be held in Charlotte on Saturday. Plans of the Charlotte Peace Coalition called for a march from the post office on Trade Street to a rally at Freedom Park. Several Davidson students were also to be involved in the anti-war demonstration in Washington, D.C., the day. On Tuesday afternoon the YMCA sponsored a memorial service for the four students slain at Kent State on Monday. Thursday morning a black-draped casket and a dozen or so wooden crosses were placed in front of Belk dormitory. After the Tuesday drill, several students began plans for demonstrations against the presence of ROTC on campus. In a speech Tuesday night, Jackson had called for a moratorium on ROTC drill until the end of the academic year.

AED Selects Members: Fredericksen To Advise Alpha (AED), pre-med society, has selected 22 rising seniors for membership. After their initiation, the new members selected James M. Fredericksen, professor of chemistry, to be the advisor to the group. Selected for membership were Dick Allison, Mark Baker, Jack Ballenger, Leonard Baugham, Mort Chiles, Herb Clegg, Ken Dixon, Rick Gourdin, Tate Holbrook, Reif Kessler, Gray Mason, and Andy Pickens. Also selected were Charlie Ralston, Bruce Rogers, John Saunders, Ed Shoaf, Floyd Strand, Robert Truitt, Duncan Postma, Tim Timmons, Steve Wilson, and Paul Sawyer. The new members selected Paul Sawyer to be the president of the group.

Woodward Sees Failure Problem By JOHN FINE The legend of corrupt and harsh Reconstruction cannot obscure the fact that the problems which the Reconstruction program attempted to solve are not yet solved. The celebration of the Civil War Centennial, Woodward said, generated little enthusiasm outside of the South because it was in fact a celebration of the legend of Reconstruction which rationalized the Compromise of 1877. For Northerners, he said, it was a reminder that Reconstruction had failed and for Negroes it was a commemoration of the event which led to the forfeit of the rights they had obtained as a result of the Civil War. Early histories of Reconstruction stressed the ineptitude of policy implementation, Woodward said. They reached the conclusion that mores could not be legislated, a conclusion which was accepted uncritically by Revisionist historians and was inscribed in legal decisions as the law of the land. Two subsequent Revisionist schools, one imputing base motives to the proponents of Reconstruction and another stressing the positive achievements of the period, have effectively cancelled each other. Woodward, one of the country’s leading historians of the South, examined two outstanding failures—the Confederacy and the Reconstruction—in “Emancipations and Reconstructions: A Comparative View,” the first of two Reynolds Lectures given Wednesday night and Thursday morning. The significance of these events in the fabric of American thought is evidenced by the controversy which surrounds the statutes and judicial decisions of the period, he said. In the present decade, which has been characterized as the Second Reconstruction, most of the old arguments have revived as a testimonial that the problems have neither been confronted nor solved. Americans have been evasive and disingenuous in dealing with failure, Woodward said. “These very shortcomings are the very bases of our present crisis.” “So successful have the Revisionists of the 1960s been that they have wiped the Revisionists of the 1930s off the map,” Woodward said. The older interpretations, with their allusions to change through the passage of time, reemerge. These are part of a strategy of evasion practiced by the middle-aged, Woodward said. They have “passed the buck to junior,” who has not yet stopped it. Events such as the transcontinental expansion are heroic achievements in spite of some rather ignoble episodes. But the legend of “heroic struggle” by the Confederacy cannot obscure the fact that it did not survive just as the legend of corrupt and harsh Reconstruction cannot obscure the fact that the problems which the Reconstruction program attempted to solve are not yet solved.

Campus Protesters PETER HOBBIE to confront people with the facts. Today. College Today The World CHAPMAN COLLEGE, ORANGE, CAL. World Campus Afloat IS A COLLEGE ON A SHIP An Undergraduate Transfer Semester For International Study - TALK WITH THE Admissions Counselor On Campus Main St. Tuesday: 9:30 Speer

---

