Page Four May 29, 1970 The Davidsonian

THE HOW AND WHY OF CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION

Rhodes, Lippard, Johnson, Schoonmaker, and Geisinger (l. to r.) field questions on the draft. (Staff Photo by Davidson)

CO Panel At Open End Counsels 1-O Applicants

By PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editor

More than fifty students gathered in the Union Lobby Monday night to question a panel of conscientious objectors (CO) and
would-be CO's. Most of the questions were friendly quests for advice on obtaining CO classification.

“It is easier if you apply when you become 18," said Sam Johnson. Although there are cases of classification being
granted even after induction, according to Johnson, sending a CO application upon receipt of a 1-A classification is like sending
up a “draft me” flag. As for non-combatant service, 1-A-O, Johnson said, “Once you're in the military, you're under military
law: they can do anything but put a gun in your hand.”

Dan D. Rhodes, J. W. Cannon professor of Bible and religion, was moderating the session. He observed that medical service
was usually granted. Must a CO profess non-violence? Johnson distinguished a CO stand against military-political and extreme cases of personal
violence.

Coming Events

Saturday, May 30
9 a.m. Area II Exams Chambers
2 p.m. Area III Exams Chambers
8:03 p.m. Movie: “Me, Natalie” Morrison Room

Monday, June 1
8 p.m. Middle East Crisis Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. Fine Film Love Auditorium “The Golden Age of Comedy”

Tuesday, June 2
7 p.m. Movie: “The War Horse” Love Auditorium
8:03 p.m. Movie: “The Reivers” Morrison Room

Wednesday, June 3
8:03 p.m. Movie: “The Reivers” Morrison Room

Thursday, June 4
8 p.m. Drama Workshop Production: Hodson Hall “Accidental Judgments, Casual Slaughters”

Saturday, June 6
9 a.m. T-Sections (10-10:50) Classes Exams
2 p.m. Fourth Period (12-12:50) Classes Exams

Monday, June 8
9 a.m. First Period (8-8:50) Classes Exams
2 p.m. Third Period (11-11:50) Classes Exams

Tuesday, June 9
2 p.m. Second Period (9-9:50) Classes Exams

Wednesday, June 10
9 a.m. Fifth Period (2-2:50) Classes Exams

Thursday, June 11
9 a.m. Sixth Period (3-3:50) Classes Exams
2 p.m. Seventh Period (4-4:50) Classes Exams

Kurt Geisinger said the law says a CO is one who is against war in any form in “this present
world.” “I would never try to kill anyone,” said Bruce Schoonmaker. The pacifistic stands led to numerous hypothetical questions. For
example, would you have fought against Hitler? “You all are too young to remember with clarity,” Rhodes said. “I don't
think any war has accomplished anything,” said Johnson. When confronted by hypothetical cases, “the best thing to tell them is
that their questions aren't relevant, and they aren't.”

Is the almost fad status of conscientious objection due to the Indochina war? Mike Lippard said Vietnam “had a great
deal to do with my feelings” and Kurt Geisinger said that America’s constant involvement in war has sped up maturation
processes. Johnson said he had applied for a CO before Vietnam became an issue but rejected arguments that conscientious objection
in response to Vietnam is less valid.

What about religious requirements to be classified CO? Lippard said atheists could get by religious regulations. Johnson said many cases
are still in court. What about interviews by local draft boards? Johnson said it was best to request an interview
in case of later legal appeals.

Computerized Registration Proceeds Despite Problems

An entire optical scanner system, using a computer developed by National Cash Register, is being used to process registration for
next year’s courses.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
RUSS MERRITT
STEVE ROADY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH
TOM VERNON

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
JOHN McLEAN

Sports Editor:
DON PARMAN

News Editor:
SCOTT DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Assistant Sports Editors:
ERNIE SHIPE
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Photographers:
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS

Staff Writers:
Jeff Allender, Bill Heckman, Bill Davenport, Bill Eskridge, John Fine, Dan Graham, Don Hoyt, George Kaneklides

Sports Writers:
Howard Boyd, Rick Bush, Rick Hart, Tom Sinks, Billy Cobb, Dick Downey, Charlie Terrell

Registrar Jay Ostwalt admitted that there were difficulties in adapting to the new system. Chief among these, he said, were
the problems of misunderstanding and vaguely worded instructions. Some people were unable to follow directions.

Said Ostwalt, “This optical scanner sheet enables us to use the records much more quickly.” Moreover, he added, the Registrar's
Office hopes “to be able to expand this system in the future to complete all registration by computer to foster
efficiency and quick handling.” The Registrar's Office, according to Ostwalt, has taken great care to make late changes in schedules
and course offerings known to the students. “It would be a good idea for the men to keep an eye
on this information outside the office,” he said.

Is cooperating with Selective Service justified? Lippard and Johnson agreed that it was the only way to remain socially active.

‘DOGMAS’ OUT

‘Non-Scholar’ Hays Feels Students Better Equipped

By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

“You're listening to a non-scholar, but it’ll do you good,” ex-Congressman Brooks Hays assured his audience Tuesday. At 10 a.m.,
throwing away his prepared text, Hays spoke extempore to his listeners in the Morrison Room. An ex-president of the Southern
Baptist Convention, he attacked “the dogmas that restrict our intellectual growth.”

Moving on to the present student unrest, Hays cited his own personal experience with a young man he had in
a seminar at Rutgers when he was Arthur Vanderbilt Professor of Public Affairs. “There was a young man there,” he
recalled, “who challenged things I thought were unchallengeable.” The two argued for four hours. From this experience, Hays said, he
learned that students today are impatient with clichés. “We cannot sloganize our solutions,” he added.

As for the much-debated law and order issue, Hays said in a ringing voice, “Public order we will have. People
don't tolerate disorder. Hitler had order but it didn’t last because there was no justice.” Hays is therefore opposed to
the current law and order rhetoric, he said, because it ignores the need for justice, which is the other half
of the picture. He affirmed his belief in “the moral solvency of the American student body.”

He told his listeners that “you're so much better equipped than we are.”1:30 p.m., Hays apologized for keeping his audience
in after the beginning of the 11:00 a.m. class hour, saying that like Disraeli he was “inebriated with the exuberance
of my own verbosity.” Hays said that Georgia's Bible-quoting Governor Lester G. Maddox reminds him of the man running for
County Clerk in Texas who said, “I believe in the tocas MOTE = (Continued From Page 1) Scott Beard, Bruce
Rogers, Ken Hill, and Robert Norris were cited for excelling in leadership. American Legion awards went to Stagg Newman and
Tom Opie for scholastic excellence and to Ed Dobbs and John Puckett for military excellence. CAR Ae was honored for
continuous leadership development throughout his ROTC career, in applying Student Aid Seen As Key To Control Campus Thefts By DAVID
GRISSETT Managing Editor According to Security Officer Ed N. Linker and records on file in the Dean of Students Office,
hundreds of dollars worth of cameras, stereo tape players, personal items, and car parts have been stolen from students’ dormitory
rooms and cars. Linker said that he believed “a ring in the area” is responsible for the thefts. He added
that the thieves have also been striking the towns of Davidson and Cornelius. “There is a steady pattern about one
per week,” Linker said. He stated that their usual procedure was to enter locked cars through side vent windows by
either forcing them or breaking them. “Some convertible tops have even been slashed,” Linker added, “so that the vandals may
gain access to articles in the cars.” Linker said that there has been a gradual increase in theft from year
to year due to more people in the area. He added that the wave of such thefts last year shows
a connection between thefts from cars and thefts from the dormitories. Director of Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze, Jr. stated
that the security guards have “watching duties for the physical plant security against fire,” and could not completely control all
property on the campus. However, he added that the security officers “have been most helpful in times past” in reporting
thefts and evidence and in working closely with the local police to apprehend the vandals. Meetze noted that the security
force is “limited in size; only one officer per shift,” but anticipates that the force will increase at the same
rate as other local police forces. Meetze recommended that “the work-study program be expanded to include a student security force,”
and that “the SGA should vote on who would become officers.” To reduce the number of thefts, Meetze stated that
“everyone needs to help.” He suggested, for example, that students take notice of parked cars, since “you can tell a
lot about who’s on campus from parked cars.” Johnny Bruner, a junior concerned with the car thefts, stated that the
areas most frequently hit are the parking areas on the fraternity court and the lot behind Johnson Gym on Friday,
Saturday, and Sunday nights between 11 p.m. and 2 a.m. He noted that “similar situations have occurred at Presbyterian College
and Wake Forest,” but that “informed student organizations patrolling the parking lots” greatly reduced the number of thefts. EUROPE $239.00
June 12-Sept 8 NYC/Amst/NYC VERY FEW SEATS Remaining for information Call 919-933-5271 or write: Betty Saunders 408 Connors Chapel Hill,
N.C. Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Risteranti BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
— CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N.C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd. OPEN 9-8 The
Hub MONDAY - SATURDAY COLLEGE STUDENTS AND TEACHERS COMPLETE SUMMER EMPLOYMENT Choose Your Own Area: Charlotte, Greensboro, Raleigh, Durham, Greenville,
S.C., etc. “Syntopicon” program needs intelligent, ambitious, and aggressive students and teachers who want to earn up to $300 a
week. No experience necessary. $500 merchandise bonus after 6 weeks employment. For interview call Mr. Marrash 377-4973 or 377-4974 and
exhibiting high standards of self-discipline, initiative, judgment, and integrity. Sons of the American Revolution Awards went to Fred Wilson as
the Outstanding Band Cadet and to John Barbee as the Outstanding Martin Honor Guard Cadet. The Daughters of the American
Revolution Award went to Tom Hart. Other honors went to the following cadets: Harry Goldman for outstanding leadership in summer
camp, Jim Hinshaw for outstanding performance as a platoon leader, and Nelson Abell for exemplary spirit of service and outstanding
citizenship. Awards also went to David Williams for military excellence, Bill Cockrill for the best company, and Bill Lattimore for
excellence in military history. “The total segregation of the races and all the other tenets of the Christian faith.” “The
Constitution means what the Court says it means,” he went on. Hayes is thought to have lost his seat in
1958 by coming out against segregated school systems in Arkansas. He pointed out that Robert E. Lee said at the
end of the Civil War that the South would obey the Constitution and be kind to the “emancipated Negro.” Hays
feels that there is excessive criticism of the South by the North, but far too little criticism from the people
from the South. “The paternal kindness of the nineteenth century is not adequate for this dynamic twentieth century,” Hays pointed
out. America cannot survive “eighty percent affluent and twenty percent poor,” he warned, adding that the proximity of poverty to
general prosperity was what makes poverty in America so bad. Hays said he hoped that some of Nixon's advisers will
get the President to fulfill his campaign promises to “bring us together” and feed poor children. WESTERN AUTO Main St.
Davidson, N.C. Phone 892-1496 FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead PIZZA FILL ‘ER UP C.W. STOWE'S ESSO
For All Your Motoring Needs “We Know Your Car Like A Book” Main & South Streets Davidson, N.C. SPRING CLEARANCE
SALE CONTINUES AT THE RED HANGER Suits, Sport Coats, Slacks Short Sleeve Dress Shirts and Shoes REDUCED Make us your
headquarters for graduation gifts. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all seniors and to wish everyone a
nice summer. THE RED HANGER DAVIDSON, N.C.
