‘Cats Face Hard-Running Mountaineers In Battle Between Powerful Offenses

The West Virginia Mountaineers will bring a run and shoot offense to the Charlotte Coliseum tomorrow night when they challenge the Wildcats’ own offensive power. The Mountaineers’ new Schuler Plan Keye

By DON PARMAN
Sports Editor

Everybody loves a winner, but perhaps nobody appreciates a winner as much as the coach who has to face one. VMI Coach Mike Schuler was in the position of deciding how to play the Davidson Wildcats when he and his VMI Keydets walked onto the floor last night with the forces of Terry Holland looking for their fifty-first in a row in friendly Johnston Gym.

As far as Schuler is concerned there is no such thing as a problem in getting the VMI team up psychologically for a game like the Davidson game. “No matter what, it is not tough to get the team up for the game. Davidson has a great team. They rank high in the national polls. There is very little to do psychologically. If the team isn't up for a game like this one, they are not going to be up for any other.”

Sonny Moran will use a young lineup in an attempt to defeat the Wildcats for the first time since 1968 in the teams’ two-year rivalry. The probable starters for the Mountaineers are Bob Lowe at center, forwards Dick Symons and Larry Woods, and guards Wil Robinson and Bob Hummell. Robinson, a sophomore, is the team’s leading scorer hitting for 18 a game while backcourt mate Hummell is scoring at a 17 a game pace. The two forwards each contribute about 10 each. Other possible starters are Curt Price and seven-foot Mike Heitz. Moran has said that Price is improving rapidly and will start a game soon, possibly the Davidson clash. Although not a starter, Heitz has played in about a third of every ball game. Leading rebounders are Woods, 9.5, and Symons, 6.8. Heitz has contributed six rebounds a game in his limited handling. Despite a mediocre record, they have averaged 88.4 points a contest. Losses have come to such powers as West Virginia in the opener, St. John’s, and Notre Dame. In the Notre Dame game, the Mountaineers led by as many as 15 points before falling by an 84-80 count.

The West Virginia points have been coming off a fast break, free-lance offense. The fast break is slow getting started at times due to poor rebounding which the team has suffered. Robinson and Hummell generally lead the fast break although occasionally Woods takes it down the floor after recovering a rebound. Moran has stuck to a free-lance offense in order to let each of his players get open as best he can without complicating the game more than necessary. On defense, the Mountaineers have tried to keep the opponents guessing by switching from zone to man-to-man on different trips down the floor. West Virginia also utilizes a full-court press, with two men on the man with the ball. Moran ran the team into shape in practice and has called the team the best conditioned West Virginia team in years. One man who cannot run the whole game is Lowe, who generally comes out after six to eight minutes. Heitz replaces him but the Mountaineers lose a great deal of mobility.

In looking ahead to the big game, Moran was somewhat less than optimistic. “Davidson will have one of the strongest front lines that we'll see anywhere. Maloy, Cook, and Kroll are all experienced performers. We'll have plenty of problems with them and playing in Charlotte makes things worse. We always have trouble there.”

The Wildcats stopped the second-place team in the conference, the George Washington Colonials, Tuesday night. The Wildcats broke open a tight 55-49 game at the half as they pulled to a 112-88 final score. Mike Maloy and Mike O’Neill scored 36 and 18 points respectively. Maloy ended the game with 36 while O’Neill notched 35. The big difference between the two clubs, however, lay in the rebounds, where the Wildcats had a massive 64-28 margin. Maloy led the way with 19, followed by Cook with 12 and Adrian with 11. Coach Terry Holland substituted freely, replacing all five members of the first team in the first half. Impressive off the bench were Steve Minkin and Steve Kirley.

The Davidsonian
January 9, 1970
Page Five

Maloy (Staff Photo by Lyle) OVER THE TOP Pointman Fox. Demoisey hit on jumper. Pointman Ron Stelzer is still out of action with a foot injury. Stelzer is expected to miss about two weeks. The Wildcats scored on 52.8 percent of their shots. Maloy hit only 15 of 23 in scoring his career high. Cook added 21 and Adrian scored 23. The Colonials had been 3-1 in Southern Conference action before the game and started a lineup which showed a lot of promise for the future with sophomores Lenny Baltimore, Ronnie Nunn, and Maurice Johnston.

Berry Poll Marks Delts, Pikas As IMAC Basketball Favorites

By BILL BERRY
Assistant Sports Editor

IMAC basketball competition begins next week, and although it is likely that no team will go undefeated, the Berry Poll will have to rate the defending co-champions Phi Delts as the clear favorite. TheDelts return four of last year's starters, most of their bench, and add some excellent sophomore talent. Returning starters from 1969 are Gene Early, John McCammon, Ed Dobbs, and Garth Hampfen. James Brice played as much as anyone last season and really should be included in this group of starters also. Other returnees are Jack Caldwell and Jimmy Wright. To this nucleus, the Delts add one of the strongest sophomore groups in the league. John Porter and Grey Sikes both played on the Davidson freshman team in 1969 and will help the Delts immensely. Other sophomores with promise are Duff Bruce, Parker To Rely On Freshmen As Wrestlers Open At Guilford.

"We've got no seniors, just a few juniors, and we'll be starting several freshmen this year, so I just don't know what to expect. We could be great, and we could be bad." With this statement, Davidson wrestling coach Charlie Parker described the prospects for the upcoming collegiate wrestling season. Gone from last year's musclemen are Southern Conference champion Kerry Keith and league runner-up Dean Cromartie, and under such conditions, many coaches would worry. Yet Parker doesn't know whether he'll have to worry, because of a very promising group of untested freshmen.

Leading the list of rookies is Jeff Dumansky, in the 134-pound division. Dumansky, who last won the national prep school championship wrestling title while attending school in New Jersey, is considered a year contender for the conference championship in his weight class. Several other promising freshmen also very possibly will be starting in Davidson’s matches this year. Rob Benton, who wrestles at 118, Bill Moseley at 126, and Rusty Winchester at 134. All have shown a good deal of potential in practice and are being counted on by Parker to control the lower weight classes.

Several of the upperclassmen will also be counted on heavily to lead the matsmen. Ronnie Williams, a fast-finishing sophomore who finished fourth in the conference last year while running up one of the few winning records on the Davidson team, will hold down the 167-pound weight class. Among the returning juniors are Frank Rader, an experienced wrestler at 190, Jack Jacobs, who finished fourth in the conference last year at 158, Tim Ricks at 142, Allen Kirkpatrick at 177, and Sean McCormick at heavyweight.

Parker has reserved hopes concerning this wrestling season. "The potential is there, but we'll have no seniors for leadership and the freshmen are still untested. It’s difficult to say now just how we'll do. By the end of the year, we could really have a strong wrestling team, once the freshmen get experience and the team jells. But by then all we'll have left on the schedule are Duke, North Carolina, and N.C. State, plus the conference tournament, so we'll be facing the toughest part of the schedule."

Actually, the opening matches for the Wildcats will be difficult too. The grapplers will open against Guilford, one of the state's strongest small colleges, next Friday, and then must face an unusually strong UNC-C team 10 days later. UNC has three North Carolina state champions this season. Five of the nine matches will be wrestled at home this year.

The Pikas lost by only one point to the Delts last year, and the odds are that their meeting will be close again. The Pikas are picked for second but have a chance of displacing the Delts. The Pikas also return four starters, a strong bench, and some excellent sophomores. Mark Affeldt, Joe Lansinger, Jack Ballenger, and Floyd Strand return to give the Pikas strong rebounding and sharp shooting. The Pika sophomores, Gary Scibal, John Calhoun, and Grier Newlin, may be stronger than the Delt’s sophs. Scibal will be one of the best rebounders in the league, while Calhoun and Newlin are both good shooters and ball handlers. The bench will feature Tom Hendren, Chuck Sparks, Bill Holl, Ray Swetenburg, Pat Bray, and Sumter Bell.

In third place, but also with an excellent chance at the league title, are the Kappa Sigs. Their weakness may be outside shooting, but they certainly will have enough muscle to work the ball inside. Mike Kelly, Gordon Slade, Bob Niebauer, William Brown, Bill McKenzie, Terry Millar, and Tom Norwood played for the Sigs last season. The Sigs are strengthened by the addition of sophomores Bill Barnhill and Bill Colvin, and by Gary Hemric, who was injured last season.

The surprise team of the basketball season could be the Independents. They were good in flashes last season and have added some new talent which should aid them immensely. Returning from last season are Mark Thompson, Jim Trevathan, Bill Funderburk, Tom Merrill, and John Fine. The addition of the height of Frank Soos, Davis Liles, and Dave Wasserman and the ball handling of Jim May will strengthen the Indies.

Coterie is the choice of the Berry Poll for fifth place. They will be only moderately large but will have speed. Returning from last season are John Saunders, Herb Clegg, Doug Haynes, Jim Long, and Bill Horton. The addition of sophomores Paul Nelson and Tim Groom will help the Coterie, but there is not enough height to win in the IMAC.

The Betas play more deliberate ball than perhaps anyone in the league, but they are short on depth, so this is necessary. The Beta Superstar is Johnny Baker. He led them to quite a few upsets last season and without Baker, the Betas are horrible. With him, they are good. Jay Bowen, Henry Marrow, Ken Crews, Mike Culbreth, Hunter Rice, and Bill Gammon are Baker's supporting cast.

In seventh are the Phi Gamms. The condition is that conditionally, Ricky Snipes plays. Snipes, the former varsity player, will give the Gamms the best big man in the league. Unfortunately, his only help is Mike Mikolayunas, who had to carry the whole scoring load by himself last year. Other Gamm players are Nicholson, Richard Neal, Ro Lane, Scott Jerry, Dean, and Charlie Parks.

Number eight is the KA’s. The KA's will again be small and fast: too small and not fast enough. John Chalk, George Hanner, Sid Moody, Rich Saunders, Danny White, compose the KA team. Griffith, Roy Gray, Kim Stuckey, and Steve Williams compose the rest of the KA team.

In ninth place will be the SPE’s. The SPE’s were hurt by graduation and did not have the bench to make up for the losses. Kent Rhodes will anchor the team, but he is the only big man. Wade Shepard returns as one of the best sophomore guards in the league. Other players for the SPE's will be John Bruner, Buzz Tarver, Dan Spencer, Rob Hoy, and Marvin Bethune.

In tenth place are the SAE’s. If the SAE’s could set a lineup, they might be fairly good but the odds are that they will not. Bob Meadows, Steve Himes, and Charlie Lynn return from last year. Sophomore Nick Livengood, David Faison, Armfield Cannon, and Charles Pope compose the rest of the team.

In eleventh place will be the ATO’s, who are beset by lack of size and experience. Brian Tarr, Bob Peel, Jim Hawkins, Mort C. Wile, Mark Baker, Jim Montgomery, Doug Hickman, Spencer Redding, and John Kenyon make up the ATO team.

The best bet in the league is that the Sigma Nus will not repeat as co-champions. They lost four of their top six players and have no one to replace them. Steve returns but is sidelined with an injury at present and the Nus are in big trouble. Calvin Murphy returns as the other starter. Other possibilities for the Nus are Bob Stubbs, Tom Wheatley, Clark Nickerson, Keith Sykes, and John Heitman.

And in last place will be the PiKapps. In all fairness, it must be stated that the PiKapps play the toughest schedule in the league—they don't get to play themselves. Julian Quattlebaum, Chris Stanley, Sam McNeely, Zack Mobley, Jim Smoak, John Huggins, Frank Kirtley, and Mack Hobby play for the PiKapps.

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT (Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N.C.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

ARMY & NAVY STORE
170 N. Main Street
MOORESVILLE
BOOTS & BELL BOTTOMS
ALSO JACKETS AND BLANKETS
PHONE: 666-7081