Page Eight © October 2, 1970

ODK Selects 10 Members
By SCOTT DAVIDSON
News Editor

This week Davidson’s chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, the society honoring leadership on campus, selected eight senior students and two faculty members for association:

Johnny Bruner, a senior from Atlanta, Georgia, serves as president of the Inter-Fraternity Council. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon and plays on the soccer team.

Herb Clegg, from Cockeysville, Maryland, is a pre-med major. He is assistant chairman of the Honor Court, a freshman hall counselor, a freshman advisor, and a member of Sigma Chi Fraternity.

From Radnor, Pennsylvania comes Rich Cowart, the founder of the Free University at Davidson. A member of Phi Delta Theta, Rich has served on the student senate as well as the Educational Policy Committee. He is now enrolled in the Honors College.

Ed Dobbs, from Winston-Salem, is the founder and director of the radio station at Davidson. He has also been active in drama work.

Gene Early, from Memphis, Tennessee, serves as chairman of the Honor Court. He is a member of the Honors College and is treasurer of Phi Delta Theta, in addition to being active in intramurals.

St. Petersburg, Florida’s Allen Peterson transferred to Davidson in his junior year. A Sig Ep, Allen was elected president of the senior class and also serves as a hall counselor.

Cullum Rogers, from Bennettsville, South Carolina, has carried major roles in drama productions at Davidson, besides being responsible for much behind-the-scenes work. He is also a cartoonist for the DAVIDSONIAN and is a member of Pi Kappa Phi.

Greg Scott, of Madison, Indiana, has been an active member of the YMCA at Davidson. He has served as its vice-president and is currently serving as president. Greg is a Sig Ep.

The two faculty members selected were Rupert T. Barber, Jr., B.S. (Louisiana State), M.A. (Columbia), Ph.D. (Louisiana State) and Robert Bruce Jackson, B.S. (Davidson), Ph.D. (Duke). Both were cited for outstanding competence in their field, work with students, and contributions to college life.

‘Paintings Communicate Thought’ Says Saltzman

Artist Marvin Saltzman is a vivid man.

The paintings he is showing presently in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center are bright in tone. “I used that red stripe there because I like that red,” Saltzman said. “I like to squeeze it from the tube, I like to paint it on, I'd like to taste red like that.” As Saltzman sat discussing his work with Davidson students and faculty, his green, European-length bell bottoms, yellow shirt, and purple candy-cane tie outshone the paintings.

Saltzman's talks during the several discussions ranged over widely varied subjects but centered around the problem of the artist’s communication with the viewer.

“The painting is an extension of me,” he said. “What might be termed honest painting is a personal expose, a self-conscious, knowledgeable expose. I am extending my personality onto a surface.” However, Saltzman said he could talk about himself and his life for extended periods without the viewer knowing any more about his paintings than the viewer would at the beginning. “Paintings communicate thoughts, but not necessarily the painter's thought,” he said. “I paint as an expression of my ego. Yeah, I want peopleto my work, but I’m going to communicate perfectly only with someone who speaks the same language, thinks and acts like I do and has the same background, who is my twin. “It’s the same as the difference between sexual intercourse and masturbation. Sexual intercourse is not the same to me as it is to my partner. But masturbation is the same to me as it is to me.” Saltzman feels that there is a sharp division between the audience of a work of art and the man who created that art. He therefore also describes art history and art criticism as fields distinctly separated from the creation of art. 

“Art critics are parasites of the painter,” he said, “just as dancers are parasites on the choreographer, singers are parasites on the composer and so forth. I’m not built for that sort of thing,” he added. “I’m not built for the contemplation of somebody else's navel; I'm built for the contemplation of my own things. I can paint a stripe on a canvas and just sit there for hours contemplating that stripe.”

QUEENS CORRECTION
The phone number for the first floor of Harris Dorm at Chicane is 332-9656. The number was published in error in the “Wildcat Handbook” and the error was copied in THE DAVIDSONIAN directory. Students are urged to note the correction.

October 2
8:03 pm. Movie: “The Cheyenne Social Club”

Saturday, October 3
2 p.m. Football with Western Carolina
7:03 p.m. Movie: “The Cheyenne Social Club”
9 p.m. Entertainment: Rock/Jazz
11:03 p.m. Movie: “The Cheyenne Social Club”

Tuesday, October 7
3 p.m. Soccer with Pfeiffer
4 p.m. Cross Country

Wednesday, October 7
8 p.m. Fine Film: “Alexander Nevsky”
9:30 p.m. Discussion of Fine Film

Thursday, October 8
10 a.m. Lecture: Dr. Herbert Stroup, Morrison Room
8:03 p.m. Movie: W. C. Fields Festival

Friday, October 9
4 p.m. Soccer with Trinity College
4 p.m. Cross Country
8:03 p.m. Movie: W. C. Fields Festival

Saturday, October 10
2 p.m. Football with Bucknell
7 p.m. Concert: Josh White, Jr.
8:03 p.m. Movie: W. C. Fields Festival

Up ’n’ Coming
“Cheyenne Social Club” Comedian, with Furman University
Soccer Field, Cullowhee
Love Auditorium, Green Room
Morrison Room, Soccer Field
Greenville, S. C.
Richardson Stadium, Love Auditorium
Morrison Room, Richardson Stadium

Stroup To Speak
An expert on Middle East affairs will present a lecture next Thursday morning as part of the college's Public Lecture Series. Herbert H. Stroup, a consultant in the College Visitor Program of American Viewpoint, Inc., will speak on “An American Looks at the Middle East.” A professor of sociology and anthropology at Brooklyn College, Stroup has had first-hand experience with the problems of the Mideast. He served in 1967 on an advisory committee to government officials on American policy in the area.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.

Changing Clothes for the Changing Man
Mansfields by Bostonian
Swing with fashion in this new and exciting shoe by Bostonian. For flare pants, tapers, or stovepipes - or anything a guy wants to wear. Come browse and see our other wearables that are right for you.
Mooresville, N.C.