Page Ten® - is. LA Pe 11, 1970

She Mavihsantare

* MAN OF ALL MEDIA (Staff Photo by Manley) Thom Seawell shows work as part of his “American Album” exhibit.

Gavras Creates Semidocumentary

ART REVIEW By SCOTT DAVIDSON News Editor

“Any resemblance to real people and events is purely intentional.” So state the opening titles of the Academy Award (Best Foreign Film) winning thriller, “Z.” The military regime in Greece is the hard-hit target of this adroit, suspenseful film, created by artists whose own lives were affected by Greece's political conflict. It is based on a novel by Vassilis Vassilikis and directed by Costa Gavras, both exiled Greeks. The music is by Mikis (“Zorba the Greek”) Theodorakis, and was supposedly composed by Theodorakis from his Greek prison cell, then smuggled out of the country.

Gavras calls “Z” an “indictment against a system that calls itself revolutionary, but in which everything is a parody, including justice.” The source material for “Z,” derived from Vassilikos’ novel, is drawn from a true-life segment of recent Greek history known as the Lambrakis affair. Lambrakis, a professor of medicine at the University of Athens, was an articulate spokesman for liberal-pacifist causes. On May 23, 1963, he appeared in the port city of Salonika to preside over a gathering of the Friends of Peace to protest the deployment of Polaris missiles. When he left the assembly, he was run down by a three-wheel delivery truck. He died three days later, having never regained consciousness. The local police sloughed it off as a regrettable incident. Lambrakis’ supporters called it assassination. Lambrakis’ autopsy revealed that death had not come from being struck by the truck, but from a blow on the head by a blunt weapon. Undaunting examining and re-examining of witnesses disclosed a carefully plotted assassination that implicated the government of Premier Konstantinos Karamanlis. The government fell and several leaders were jailed, but after...

Friday, December 11
8:30 p.m. Film: “Z”
10:30 p.m. Film: “Z”

Sunday, December 13
7:45 p.m. Christmas Vespers Presbyterian Church

Monday, December 14
All Day Art Rental Display Morrison Room

Tuesday, December 15
All Day Art Rental Display Morrison Room

Wednesday, December 16
10 a.m. Randolph Junior High Visit Morrison Room
12 a.m. Lunch Film “Bar Dana 114 Bar”

By DAVID HANIG

“The Problems and Opportunities of North Carolina Education in the 1970s” will be North Carolina State Superintendent of Public Instruction A. Craig Phillips’ topic when he speaks in Hodson Hall on Jan. 18, at 8 p.m. Following Phillips’ talk, there will be a question and answer period. As state superintendent, Phillips has had a major role in setting up an experimental kindergarten program and a student task force of 16 high school students which serves to keep the state education department in touch with student opinion. Phillips is also noted for his attempts to make education, especially vocational education, more meaningful to students. Before being elected to the state superintendency in 1968, he served as the administrative vice president of the Richardson Foundation, the first superintendent of the merged Charlotte-Mecklenburg school system, and as superintendent of Winston-Salem schools.

Phillips Speaks On Education Jan. 18

8 p.m. Dr. Suydam Osterhout Voice Recital: Christine Ligo Morrison Room Hodson HallHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The military coup d’état in April 1967, five of the imprisoned senior officers were returned to their duties. Gavras has directed “Z” masterfully. His taut direction effectively follows the plotting of the murder, the assassination, and the denouement, leaving the audience limp and gasping. The 1956-ish technique of using music to heighten the action is put to good effect thanks to the flavorful compositions of Theodorakis. The truck.

A REVIEW By CATHY ROSS Staff Writer

The print works of Thom Seawell are hanging neatly at Stowe Gallery. Seawell has remarkable control of the mechanical intricacies of the printing processes; interweaving colors and patterns, he has put out a lively series of prints. There is a wide stretch to his craftiness with his media. He has cleverly superimposed photographs and experimented with textures of papers and inks. Seawell has done well in combining techniques; the woodcut “Idaho” has particular success in becoming an etching at its interior.

The camerawork of Raoul Coutard is powerful and rich, capturing the mood of turmoil and conflict. The acting is smooth and well-coordinated as the familiar faces of the actors blend into the uniformity of the film. Yves Montand is a sympathetic pacifist leader and Louis Trintignant is an unswerving investigator. Surprisingly, the film evokes a remarkable Gallic atmosphere. The presence of Montand and Trintignant is responsible. Also, the film was made in Algiers. Somehow “Z” loses some of its mobility when the French version is dubbed into English. What Gavras has done in “Z” is to create an extremely subjective semi-documentary. But it almost treads on the rhetorical. Sometimes his methods are too black against white: the good guys — the honest, sincere, liberal pacifists — against the bad guys — the pompous, slimy Fascists. Fortunately, Gavras makes no pretense at clouding the persuasive slant of “Z.” But couldn’t the Fascists make a movie as persuasively anti-liberal, too?

Seawell Exhibits Media Craftiness

The exhibit is a part of the American Album: States and Provinces, Monuments and Mementos. It is to this purpose that much of Seawell’s work misses its potential. The printer has labels, words, or digits on almost all his surfaces: “Virginia,” “Tenn.Ga. Line,” “Ghost Town,” “Yukon.” The letters are often too purposelessly obtrusive, turning some of Seawell’s prints into distant cousins of the old Orange Crush posters. This is not to say the exhibit is a failure. The northern provinces are exceptional prints: the colored woodcut of “Alaska” and silk screens of “Alberta” and “Manitoba” are superb. Printing is a phenomenon experiencing a metamorphosis of favor. Some consider these media — etching, engraving, lithograph, aquatint, woodcut — perfectly valid modes of rendering works of art. But others view printing as craft, requiring only skilled labor. If your purpose is to confront this art-craft dilemma facing modern printmaking, it is questionable that Seawell’s work will make apparent any great turning points in your consciousness. But if you haven’t seen Manitoba or the Yukon, you can find happiness at the Seawell show.

CHRISTMAS CARDS The Village Store Davidson, N.C.

FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead 1522 East Fourth St.

“Largest selection of flares, jeans, bell-bottoms in Charlotte” Operated by people who know what you want.

---