Vol. LX, No. Eleven Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 December 18, 1970

FALALALALALALA LALA

Union Board Chairman Weldon Schenck puts finishing touches on the Christmas tree at the Big House. (Staff photo by Doty)

Informal Rush Nets Over 100 Freshmen
By RICH WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Approximately 40 percent of the freshman class pledged one of four fraternities as a result of the rush held last week, according to Lyman Parrigin, rush spokesman for the fraternities.

“The figures speak for themselves,” said Parrigin. “Out of a class of 290 freshmen, 112 pledged a fraternity. As far as I am concerned this leaves any editorial criticism invalid. When one considers that only one third of the fraternities were participating, I think we could consider this rush successful."

Parrigin also noted that the six freshman class senators joined fraternities including the Freshman Class President and Vice President, who were both members of the Committee of Eighteen.

“The figures are very encouraging for the four fraternities,” said Parrigin. “It seems that the strength of the selective fraternity group may have been underestimated.

“What fraternities are asking for is a reasonable chance to operate as they choose and then stand or fall on their own merits in philosophical and economical terms,” he said. “These four fraternities will continue to press for modifications of the college program or if necessary possibly move off campus and withdraw from the plan entirely,” said Parrigin.

Faculty Adopts One Week Extension Of Drop Period
By DOUG BROWN
Staff Writer

The faculty has adopted a proposal extending the “drop-add” period. Effective with this winter term, students will be allowed to drop a course within two weeks (ten academic days). This is an extension of five academic days to the old “drop” arrangement. It will be required that a student add a new course within five academic days. Those who drop a course after five academic days will be unable to add a new course to their schedule. For the remainder of the term, they will be without a third course, and this course will be paid for although they do not take it.

According to J. H. Ostwalt, registrar, very few will probably take advantage of the new procedure. Only in a few crucial cases have major problems developed because of the old “drop-add” method. However, Ostwalt feels that it will be beneficial overall despite a few minor problems. The counting process will be slowed down, class rolls will be made available at a later date, and the revised schedule will not be compiled as soon as previously.

The Educational Policy Committee originally proposed a five-week “drop” period, but this was not accepted by the faculty. Ostwalt was unable to give a definite reason why a five-week “drop” period was unacceptable to the faculty, but he did theorize that the faculty felt that a two-week period was long enough.

In this two-week period, it is felt that a proper assessment can be made of a course, and additional time will serve no beneficial purpose. Ostwalt stressed the point that a student will be unable to pick up a new course after the first week, and that caution should be exercised in this area.

McKelway Joins Theologians In Honor of Barth

Alexander J. McKelway, associate professor of Bible and religion and author of the award-winning book “The Systematic Theology of Paul Tillich,” recently joined several of the most noted theologians in America for a colloquium honoring the late Karl Barth in New York City.

Barth, a German theologian whose voluminous work “Church Dogmatics” is considered one of the greatest theological masterpieces ever written, died in December of 1968. The colloquium at Union Theological Seminary commemorated his contribution to theology and the world.

McKelway was to speak at 8 p.m. Friday night on “How Karl Barth Changed My Mind” along with Dr. John C. Bennett, president emeritus of the seminary. Other noted theologians participating included Marcus Barth, John Deschner, Hans Frei, Frederick Herzog, Paul Lehmann, J. Brooke Mosley, James Smart, Gabriel Vahanian, James Wharton, and others.Students Richard C. Burts Jr. said, "As it stands now, this rush will have no effect on the random assignment of freshmen over Christmas. Freshmen will be randomly assigned to houses whether they have accepted a bid from a particular house or not." Burts refrained from commenting, however, on the implications of the rush. When asked whether the recent rush was successful or unsuccessful, Assistant to the President Peter H. Hobbie said, "I think it was irrelevant; I don't believe it will have any effect. I personally feel this will be one of the last rushes we'll see on this campus," he said. Hobbie also said that the figures from this rush would very likely have no effect on the trustees. "The new plan hasn't even started, yet some fraternities are looking for reasons why it will not work. It staggers my imagination that the trustees will make a change." Hobbie also said that the fraternity situation has been debated by the trustees and a decision has been made. "I don't believe there will be any basis on which to judge the new system by the spring meeting of the trustees," he said. Freshman Class President Bill Ralston said he felt the rush was successful. "I was surprised at the number of boys that went ahead and pledged," he said. (See 112, Page 4)

Most Fraternities Adopt College’s Affiliation Plan

AN ANALYSIS By GRAY WILSON Asst. Managing Editor

With the December 15 deadline this week, all of the twelve fraternities on Patterson Court have responded to the recommendations of the Committee of Eighteen. Only two houses were still undecided last week, but on Monday Pi Kappa Alpha unanimously agreed to accept the college plan, keep their charter, and remain in their house. This decision came after a meeting last week with a representative from the national fraternity, who agreed to let the house keep its charter under the college plan. The only other house undecided at the end of last week was Sigma Phi Epsilon, which has taken three votes this week in an effort to determine the future status of the fraternity. On Monday, Sigma Phi Epsilon voted to reject the college’s random assignment plan. However, a group within the house petitioned for a second meeting on Tuesday. At the Tuesday meeting, Sigma Phi Epsilon voted to accept the college plan, retain their charter, and remain in their house at least until the end of the year. Further plans were delayed for later consideration. Sigma Phi Epsilon voted Wednesday afternoon to nullify Tuesday's vote and to reinstate the decision of Monday: Sigma Phi Epsilon will reject the college’s plan by refusing to accept random assignees. The reason the vote was overturned, according to fraternity president Dave Shepler, was that a national representative notified the fraternity that they would lose their charter "as soon as a random assignee set foot in the house." It was also noted that the fraternity would lose their furniture soon thereafter. Phi Gamma Delta, which had originally accepted the college's plan, reversed its decision also after a visit by a national representative. At present, Phi Gamma Delta intends to move off campus. The national representative reportedly told the fraternity and the college dean of students that legal precedents would ensure the success of such a move. Kappa Alpha is the other fraternity so far which has decided to give up their house, keep their charter, and move off campus. A verbal agreement has been made to lease a house off campus beginning next fall. Phi Delta Theta was the only fraternity to completely reject the college plan. They have decided to keep their house and charter until the end of the school year, during which time they will consider a plan for the future. Sigma Chi rejected the college plan, but they plan to cease all operations at the end of the year, which in effect is statement IV of the proposal. Sigma Alpha Epsilon has found itself in a particular dilemma because it is under the college plan on campus and has successfully participated in rush. The house is determined to keep its pledges.