(Staff photo by Lyle)

THE PARADE TO THE LINE
Kroll shoots one of 17 missed free throws.

STILL NOT AT PEAK
The Davidsonian
Page Three
January 16, 1970

Holland Points Cagers To Tournament
By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

After a few early season struggles plus one loss, the Davidson basketball team seems to be off and running to
another fine season and yet-to-be-known post-season honors. “The team is at least as far along as we expected,” said head
coach Terry Holland, “Especially when you take into account the loss of Ron Stelzer.” Despite the absence of the small
point man in six of the team's eleven games, the Wildcats have run up an impressive 11-1 won-loss record.

After running off three quick wins to start the season, the ‘Cats met a fired-up St. John’s squad in Jamaica,
N.Y. The Redmen were gunning for Davidson who had knocked St. John's out of the NCAA playoffs in each of
the last two years. Holland added, “We didn't get the breaks when we needed them,” and Davidson returned to the
South smarting from a 74-42 loss.

Another real struggle followed, as Georgia fell 72-70, on a field goal by super-soph Bryan Adrian with six seconds left.
Then came the Charlotte Invitational, and the Wildcats’ first-round opponent was Holy Cross. “The Holy Cross game was the turning
point,” said Holland.

High-Flying Hawks Await Rematch With ’Cats Tomorrow
By DON PARMAN
Sports Editor

“We're down this year.” Those are the words of St. Joseph's head basketball coach Jack McKinney as his Hawks prepare
for a rematch with the streaking Davidson Wildcats tomorrow night at the Palestra in Philadelphia. Davidson defeated St. Joseph's last
year in Charlotte.

Despite McKinney's pessimistic words, the Hawks returned four of last year’s starters and have compiled a winning mark, defeating highly
regarded teams such as Cincinnati and Colorado while falling to St. Bonaventure. Leading the Hawks are Dan Kelly, a 5'11”
guard, and Mike Houer, a 6'4” forward. Kelly has been hitting at a 21.2 point per game clip while Houer
has contributed 19 points and 12 rebounds. Rounding out the starting team are returnees John Connolly and Jack Snyder and
6'7” center Bruce Marks. Connolly is the number two rebounder with eight a game.

The Hawks normally deploy in a 2-1-2 offense with Marks at the high post. They look underneath for Houer or
else try to hit from the outside with Kelly. St. Joseph's likes to run when they have the opportunity but
have encountered troubles on the defensive boards. Houer is a big, strong rebounder on the lines of Doug Cook but
is not an exceptional leaper. In fact, McKinney said that Houer cannot even dunk the ball. On defense, the Hawks
change after every basket. The most common defenses are a man-to-man, a zone press, and several varieties of the zone,
chiefly the 3-2 and a 2-2-1. The Hawks have dropped five of their last six. The chief weakness of the
team has been the disappointing play of the other three starters. The biggest strong point has been the play of
Kelly and Houer whom the St. Joseph's staff regard as two of the finest players in the East.

Perhaps an indication of things to come in the East Carolina game was the ECU sports information director. He passed
out the Pirates’ football brochure instead of the basketball book. On the court, there was a great resemblance between the
two. The Pirates picked up 34 fouls in the course of the game as the entire ECU starting team fouled
out, and the Wildcats won 91-76. Davidson needed their foul shots to hold off the Pirates in the first half
as East Carolina hit on 57.6 percent of their shots. The Pirates held their last lead in the game with
1:18 to go in the half.

For the Wildcats, the story of the game was once again a balanced attack with four players in double figures.
Doug Cook led the way with 26 followed by Bryan Adrian at 20, Mike Maloy with 19, and Jerry Kroll
with 13. Maloy and Duncan Postma each handed out five assists as the Wildcats handled the ball much better than
they had in previous games. The ‘Cats turned the ball over only 11 times. The difference in the game actually
came at the line, as the Wildcats converted 31 of 48 foul shots. East Carolina picked up one more field
goal than Davidson but shot only 21 free throws and made 14. Tom Miller of the Pirates showed that he
is a genuine candidate for all-conference honors.

Varsity Marksmen Aim For Late Season Wins
With the largest portion of the season already completed, the rifle team is still shooting for a successful final mark.
Captain Harry Blalock of the ROTC department and his marksmen have compiled a 3-4 mark in their matches with the
wins coming at the expense of Wake Forest and Wofford. The shooters travel to Clemson to face the Tigers and
Furman and then conclude the regular season at home against Presbyterian on January 25.

The team coach, Sergeant Louis Penley, has stuck with a lineup consisting of David Felkel, Max Thomason, Larry Crowell, Mort
Chiles, Vance Simpson, and Tom Maxwell. The Wildcat shooters compete in the Western Carolinas Conference along with Clemson, Furman, Presbyterian,
and Wofford. The Wildcats also participate in the Southern Conference tournament and the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament. The team is
sponsored by the college and exists as a club sport.varsity sport. The college provided all equipment with the exception of
any military rifles that the team may use. The U.S. Army supplies the team with ammunition. Penley named Chiles and
Simpson as possible all-Western Carolinas selections. The leading marksmen on the freshman squad are George Thomas, Jay Gaynor, and William
Gates.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N.C.

New York to London
Summer Vacation Trips
Round Trip $169
Now Filling
Small Deposit & Payment
Send for Free Details
Student Globe Roamers
Box 6575 Hollywood, Fla. 33021

NEW YEAR'S SPECIAL
Dinner $1.25
3 Pcs. of Chicken
3 Rolls
Potatoes, Gravy, and Slaw

Lunch Box $ .89
2 Pcs. of Chicken
2 Rolls
Potatoes, Gravy, & Slaw

COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken
503 S. Broad
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 664-1505

honors as he hit for 29 points. Miller hit for 18 in the second half of long jumpers, keeping East
Carolina close with 16 in the last 12 minutes. "This is the turning point of our season," said Holland. He
cited the great improvement in defense that was evident in this win. Since then Davidson has been untouchable. Except for
the first half of the George Washington game, the ‘Cats have appeared worthy of their recent eighth place national ranking.

"Playing together more and more has effected a great improvement in our defense as well as our offense," continued Holland.
"And I still don't think we've reached our peak. Of course, we want to be at our peak at the
end of the season for the post-season tournaments.

"We have not changed our offense from the first of the season. We still feel that the most important thing
is to have our big men in good rebounding position. Bryan (Adrian) is such a great freelance player that we
have not had to alter it to give him more shots. We let him freelance within the structure of the
offense, and he'll get the shots."

Many fans do not feel that All-American Mike Maloy is playing as well as he should. "We feel that Mike
is more of an All-American this year than he was last year," commented Holland. "Mike is not concentrating quite enough,
but he is a very unselfish player." Holland noted Maloy's performance in the romp over V.M.I. In the previous contest,
he had tallied a career high of 36 points against George Washington, but against the Keydets, he scored only nine
points, preferring to pass off to Adrian and Doug Cook for easy baskets. "Mike does not mind passing up his
own shots in order to give teammates an easier shot," Holland went on. "He is also a great leader off
the court. He really worked to get the team up for the game."

Holland was very pleased with Doug Cook so far this year. "Doug has never really been a consistent player, but
this season he has been more consistent than ever before. Usually, he starts off slowly and comes around at the
end of the year. For example, Doug was the MVP in last year’s Southern Conference Tournament. But this year Doug
got off to a very fast start. He slumped a little later on, just as a baseball player suffers a
hitting slump. Now, though, he seems to have come out of it and has had some strong games recently."

There is a possibility that the team will have a new face before the season is over. "We don't know
when Stelzer will be back," said Holland. "If for some reason the doctor said he might be through for the
year, Randy Jones practiced with us Monday, and he could help out." Jones was the back-up point man behind Fox
DeMoisey on the 1967-68 Freshman squad that went 16-0. Late in the season, Jones started.

Holland said he was very happy in his first year as head coach at his alma mater. When asked if
he ever wondered if he had done the right thing by leaving Maryland and coach Lefty Driesell, Holland smiled and
said, "Oh no. The only reason I went there is because I thought I would have a better chance to
get the head post here from that position."

What are you going to do with yourself over winter break? Go to the Bahamas? Go to Atlantic City or
Fort Lauderdale? Or—worse yet—go nowhere?

Now, the purpose of this hype is to get you to talk your folks into financing a little getaway to
the mountains. Read on.

Being from the South, when you think of skiing, you naturally think of water skiing. Forget it. This is snow
skiing. The best. Ah, but you say that that means Vermont or Colorado or some other foreign place like that?
Nope. We mean Beech Mountain, N.C. Yeah, North Carolina. Beech has the highest slopes east of the Rockies, and that
includes Vermont. And Beech has ten different slopes, from beginner to advanced, with lifts to service each one. There are
cozy places where you can get some good chow and something to drink, or maybe just sit around and get
warm. Beech also has a lot of single people all over the mountain, all winter long. If you are male,
that means that there are a significant number of females with whom you can become acquainted, and vice versa, if
you can dig it.

If you don't know how to ski, we'll teach you. If you don't have any equipment, we'll rent it to
you, cheap. If you do have your own equipment, what are you waiting for?

So here's the pitch: Beech Mountain features a gift certificate which entitles you to two days of skiing. The package
includes your lift fees and complete equipment rental. All for under thirty dollars. (A lot less if you have your
own skis and stuff.) You'll also get a jacket patch and a button which bears the catchy ad game phrase
"what's happening."

O.K., send me all those brochures and things so I can ponder this skiing business in my heart of hearts.

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE ZIP

BEECH MOUNTAIN
DEPT. “E”, P.O. BOX 277
BANNER ELK, N.C. 28604
TELEPHONE 704/898-2141

(This offer good anytime during the 1969-70 ski season except December 27-28, 1969)

COPYRIGHT 1969 CAROLINA CARIBBEAN CORPORATION

Beech MOUNTAIN
“One Good Beechkommer Deserves Another.”

Wear it proudly and all that jive. Even when you figure up your own food, lodging, and transportation, it’s still
cheaper than the Bahamas. Now, cut the coupon out, write your name on it, etc., and mail it to us.
We'll shoot through with some brochures and stuff that will explain everything.

Bahamas? P.C.? Lauderdale? Tell those scenes to kiss off. This winter, go to Beech Mountain and ski. End of ad.
