Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$7.00.

PAGE TWO MAY 1, 1970

Nixon On Draft

It would be absurd to think injustice is mitigated when spread abroad equally, and such was the initial reaction to
President Nixon’s executive order ending the granting of occupational and (if Congress approves) student deferments. But certain effects of the
President’s action deserve commendation.

For one thing the President has acted to eliminate an artificial motivation for seeking higher education through his removal of
colleges and universities as sanctuaries of protection from the draft. The result will probably mean a pause in the rise
of college enrollment, if not a drop off. (But graduate schools did survive the ending of graduate deferments, so it
is likely the effect will not be too severe on undergraduate institutions.)

It is indeed unfortunate that the plan submitted to Congress would still allow student deferments to those committed to taking
ROTC. While a core of “civilian” college-educated officers helps keep the Army bearable, students should not be forced into ROTC
as the only means of avoiding the draft.

One of the most unjustified exemptions is that remaining for ministers and ministerial students. We wonder why the President did
not strike down this well-known but legal draft dodge along with the other occupational-educational deferments. It seems clear that non-religious
moral objections to war should have as much consideration as religious objections. It is not clear why the religious ones
are preferred.

Politically, the executive order seems a bid for support for a volunteer army. Assuming the President is sincere in his
opposition to conscription in peacetime — an assumption very few are willing to grant the President — it is only
natural to end unfair ways of avoiding this “presently necessary evil.” Perhaps when the college age group, those in the
population who are the brightest and most opposed to the draft, are directly confronted, the political machinery will start to
move.

We do not condone the draft. It is an unnecessary evil used to fight an unjust and immoral war. It
has little if any excuse for continuing. But we also do not condone exemption from the draft for a select
few who are smarter or better-born than most. We hope that by the ending of this exemption the President has
struck a fatal blow at the peacetime draft.

Out Of The Haze

Out of all the smoke and confusion of the open meeting between students and members of the faculty and administration,
several issues emerged in much clearer form than they had before.

Most dramatically there was the issue of graduation credit for work done in the 1968 summer session. Both sides in
the dispute had valid points to make. On behalf of the administration, it must be admitted that the rules saying
that no such credit would be given were to be found in material available at the time. The problem would
have been in putting all the rules together. One rule says that a student with 58-72 semester hours of credit
at the end of the summer would need 16 courses for graduation. A second rule says that summer school work
would count in terms of semester hours. Thus a student could do extra work (but not exceeding the 72-hour limit)
and still need the same amount of courses to graduate as before.

On behalf of the students, however, it must be said that the rules were not stated in conjunction thus making
the correlation not as obvious as it might seem. Furthermore, there was a rule which said that transfer credits would
in the future be counted as 3.3 semester hours equalling one Davidson course. It would have been easy to confuse
this rule as having applied to the summer session in 1968. Two faculty members admitted that they may have made
this inaccurate assumption at the time. A question also exists as to whether the complete rules or merely a summary
were distributed to the students.

Thus it seems quite clear that significant doubt about the problems exists — enough doubt to warrant a favorable reconsideration
of the student cases involved by the Curriculum Requirements Committee (CRC). If the aims of education are to be furthered
it must be realized that the students involved felt that their education would be enhanced by an opportunity to graduate
early. While it may be too late to help members of the class of 1970 at all, prompt action might
still significantly benefit those present rising seniors who were involved.

A further point to come out of the meeting was that students could benefit the CRC by their presence on
that committee. Students would be able to help faculty members become fully aware of the concerns involved when grievances come
before the CRC.

Fee For All

“Justice delayed is justice denied,” the English used to say. This aphorism appears to be singularly applicable to the College’s
handling of a current laundry fee dispute.

The College has a rule stating that every student is required to pay a laundry fee — currently amounting to
$110 per year — unless he has been excused by the Dean of Students. It seems that a trio of
students who are presently living off campus felt such an excuse to be implicit in a September conversation with the
Dean, at which time permission to room off campus was granted. One of the main selling points the students used
in the conversation was the fact that living off campus would be cheaper than living on campus, and the avoidance
of the college laundry fee was specifically mentioned in this regard.

However, upon receiving their first set of college bills in the fall, the students discovered that they were being charged
the fee after all. The students, who in fact have yet to use the college laundry this year, attempted to
meet with the Dean on several different occasions during the winter and spring terms, only to have him break each
appointment. They were finally able to see him this month, at which time they received a definite “no” answer to
their request to be relieved of the laundry fee obligation. The students are carrying their case to the Court of
Appeals.

It hardly seems fair that students should be forced to maintain an institution such as the laundry from which they
do not benefit or attempt to benefit. The condition seems even less fair in the case of a laundry whose
inefficiency and paternalism are a source of complaints to even on-campus students. But aside from the basic question of the
fairness of the College rule in this instance, there exists the disturbing feeling that justice can be thwarted by delay.
We therefore sincerely hope that the appeal is taken up a good deal more quickly than was the original attempt
to petition the Dean of Students.

‘Waiting For Godot’

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Estragon: He should be here.
Vladimir: He didn’t say for sure.
Estragon: And he’ll come.
Estragon: And if he doesn’t come?
Vladimir: We’ll come back tomorrow. Then the day after tomorrow.
Vladimir: Possibly.
Estragon: And so on.
Vladimir: The point is —
Estragon: Until he comes.
Vladimir: You’re merciless.

Bryan Defends Courts; Boyd Justifies ROTC

To the Editor:

I am not absolutely certain what Mr. McLean was attempting in his interview of several members of the College courts
(THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 17), but whatever it was, I fear he failed most grossly. If he was attempting to embarrass
the gentlemen with whom he conducted his interview by inappropriate and almost insolent questions such as, “Do you believe that
Davidson can still have an efficient ‘community court’ system?”, then he failed because of their adept and courteous answers. The
questions McLean has asked are totally beyond the purview of any man not second-sighted. But he received his answers, if
not his pound of flesh. (Our courts do not operate that way.) I fear that Mr. McLean would have us
to believe that they do, however. At least he would like us to believe that we cannot trust them.

The main thrust of the article was not in the interview itself, but in the accompanying note. But we will
say to that, that this newspaper cannot do anything further to damage adjudication at this college than it has done
already. It can only serve to remind its readers of a situation which it created — almost entirely out of
whole cloth. The events themselves were quite true, but the interpretation placed upon them was at once misplaced and meretricious.

If, however, it was Mr. McLean's purpose to accentuate the need for reform I must agree. Nonetheless, I rebuke him
still, for, as one member indicated when he entered the court, this is not a political matter, but one which
judges must settle themselves. All we need is some good will and that is a quantity strangely lacking in these
supposedly liberal halls.

Robert Gray Bryan ‘70
Davidson College

To the Editor:

It never ceases to amaze me how individuals who consider themselves “liberal” (i.e., open-minded) can justify their demands that ROTC
at Davidson must be discontinued. It is one thing to attack ROTC because you personally do not agree with its
purpose, or that you think it is “immoral,” or whatever. But it is quite another to say

by Johnny Hart

A MEXICAN FARMER WITH A GUNFIGHTER?HOLE-IN-JUAN. = that 30 per cent of the student body, who do not happen to
share your belief that ROTC is a travesty of the liberal arts education, should be prohibited from participating in such
a program. I see little difference between banning ROTC and banning hippies. Why can’t liberals live up to their name
and realize that there are at least two sides to every issue?

Howard Boyd ‘72
Davidson College

Art Interpreted: Reporter Raided

To the Editor:

Dear Sir:

In response to frequent questions and comments on the mural I painted in the Davidson College Union, I am making
the following statement: There are no words nor parts of words to be found in the mural. Because its content
is purely non-objective, there are also no objects included in the composition. Any other statements as to the mural’s content
or meaning are false and have developed over the last few years as part of a mythology about this painting.
I have great affection for the painting, and would hope that in the future new students and visitors to the
campus will be allowed to approach it on their own terms without being prejudiced by the present interpretation.

Herb Jackson
Davidson College

To the Editor:

In last week’s edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN there was a very good article on the current membership situation at the
fraternities on campus. The reporter went to great trouble to gather the information on active and inactive brothers, brothers returning
from Europe next year, and the number of recently initiated brothers at each house. And what did he receive for
all his efforts? Two sets of destroyed class notes and a stolen Humanities paper. Such an action is inexcusable. It
violates every presumption of honor a Davidson student has pledged in the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility. Apparently,
the article offended some fraternity members. Some of the information published might have been inaccurate. But this is no way
for such errors to be brought to light. There are some fraternity members who refuse to admit that what was
printed about their house is correct. It is lamentable that they have this visual block but it gives no one
the right to act as someone did.

John Davidson ‘72
Davidson College

Earth Day Percept

By PAUL E. ROWLAND

The Porpoise And The Published

B. F. Skinner is a megalomaniac of sorts. In Walden Two Dr. Skinner does not claim to be God, a
Kennedy, or even a Nixon; but he does have delusions of grandeur: he thinks he can write decent fiction. Lots
of people have the same delusion, but somehow they don’t allow their mistakes into sixteen printings. Perhaps Skinner took the
same correspondence course in creative writing as Ayn Rand (of Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged fame). If so, it would be
interesting to know how much they had to pay for passing grades. At least Miss Rand’s characters have features—even though
all the good guys have metallic faces made of sharply defined angles and all the bad guys have fat, free-form
figures. At least one can see Miss Rand’s characters going about their mechanical motions while Skinner’s abstractions sort of float
around doing things such as “nodding rapidly.” Now just how does one nod rapidly? The very idea of nodding rapidly
just doesn’t become the nature of Frazier, the deus in machina who guides our narrator through this 300-page visit to
wonderland. At least Miss Rand’s books contain some semblance of an interesting plot, and where her story is lacking at
least she manages to throw in a little sex to keep things interesting. Skinner’s book can get along without sex—or
rather it could have if it had had even a modicum of suspense; you know what will happen from the
first pages of the thing. At least Miss Rand’s works are cleverly contrived so that there are occasional profundities, but
the only quotable thing Skinner says is in the vague voice of Frazier who announces, “You can hear my mind
creak in the pompous cadences of my prose.” (Physician, heal thyself.) All this leads me to groan, “Why did the
greatest psychologist of the century write something so awful?” “To suggest a utopian society based on his analysis of behavior,”
the naive answer. But if that was the intention why not publish a straightforward essay setting down his recommendations? Profit
motive, perhaps? That hardly seems likely since the excellence of his non-fictional works makes all his writings “must reading” for
anyone interested in current psychology. Of course, without the novel form Skinner would have missed the pleasure of setting up
Professor Castle as the all-purpose straw man to be cast as dogmatist, reactionary, and chauvinist; but was such an obvious,
vindictive maneuver worthy of a respected psychologist’s treatise on utopia? Should Dr. Skinner, or you, gentle reader, care to write
Walden Three, I highly recommend the prologue to Don Quixote which not only exposes Skinner’s pompous ploy of numerous literary
and music allusions, but also presents the goal of anyone who would write to communicate rather than just to publish.

Grol Erupts Into Controversy Over Cups

To the Editor:

On Earth Day observances at Davidson were small and undemonstrative, and only one of them seemed to move people at
all. Some members of ECOS distributed one paper cup at each meal to everyone who ate in the Union. The
goals of this small exercise were to make people aware that it was Earth Day, and to show them that
they needed only one cup per meal. Normally the Union uses plastic cups and normally almost 3000 are consumed per
day. On April 22 only 1100 cups were consumed and they were paper. The cafeteria and its daily functioning offer
us an excellent example of a small and common problem of solid waste disposal. There were two aspects to the
problems of the cups after we accept the fact that it is much cheaper for the Union to use the
cups because of the great scarcity of dishwashers. One aspect was the substance of which the cup was composed—plastic, and
plastic is forever. It simply will not decay. The other aspect was or is the amount of consumption. No matter
what kind of cup you use, the voracious Davidson student will consume four of it—and the consequent volume of things
you have to dispose of becomes frightening. The Union will begin using paper cups shortly. The problem is far from
solution, and the students who complained about the exercise on April 22 showed this vividly. At breakfast one freshman bitched
because he had to interrupt his feeding to walk the ten feet to the milk dispenser to refill his cup.
Dan Johnston complained on the Wailing Wall because the individual was not given the right to choose to take one
cup and because he had to drink coke in the same cup from which he had drunk milk. The freshman's
case is obvious—walking ten feet is better than consuming an extra cup needlessly. It is no inconvenience to use only
one cup and his irritation showed very simply that he is spoiled. Dan's case is more subtle. He is certainly
correct in objecting to forced limitation of consumption. This does nothing but anger people. Control must come from within. But
for this one day we had to make our point and the most effective way to do it was the
way we did it. Some people have stopped using so many cups, but there are still those who use four
and five at every meal. A simple sign would not have sufficed to call the problem to their attention. Another
speciously legitimate gripe against the exercise was that it was too narrow. The “real” polluters are big business and industry.
This is basically true—but not fully. The real polluters are mindless consumers. The enormous problems must be solved at higher
levels, but there are a great many problems which are no more spectacular and no more complex than the one
with the Union and the cups. People care too much about petty and demeaning conveniences—the kinds plastic cups and disposable
containers (which aren't really disposable) offer. It is consumption without thought of the consequences. Certainly packaging methods will have to
change, but until then, we must voluntarily limit our consumption. One other thing that was dismaying was the number of
people watching the CBS special on the environment at 10:00 that night—zero. The TVs in the lounges of Belk, Watts,
Little, East and Cannon were all tuned to stupid pablum shows. People just don't care enough to inform themselves. It's
sad and frightening.

Patrick B. Mullen ‘70
Davidson College

To the Editor:

This letter is to cast an affirmative vote for the idea of Earth Day. Pollution is an imminent danger and
recognition of the problem is long overdue. However, as a great German philosopher said, “No man must have to.” I
refer of course to the militant ecologists in the cafeteria who rationed drinking cups at meals on April 22. I
say “militant” because of the forced participation required of students eating at the Union. Forced participation is abhorrent (remember required
chapel, upperclassmen?). Accordingly, I must protest the tactics employed by the junior ecologists of Davidson College.

Pervi Williams ‘73
Davidson College
