Ayres, the man responsible for the formation of the chapter, opened the meeting with a brief statement of the aims
and goals of the movement. Ayres emphasized that this country must change. He said that the two basic aims of
the movement are to change United States war policy and to reorder national priorities. William E. Jackson Jr., assistant professor
of political science, was then introduced by Ayres. He spoke briefly of the history of the movement since its conception
at Princeton, stating that there are now more than three hundred affiliated chapters. Jackson went on to explain that the
prospects are improving for the college student who wants to effect change from within the system, saying, “Let's make an
honest attempt to make this system work rather than first declaring it unworkable.”

Coble, Burts See Campus Leaders

By SCOTT DAVIDSON
News Editor

SGA President Ran Coble and Dean of Student Richard C. Burts were among the students and administrators from across the
nation who attended the President to President's Conference held at the Sheraton-Park Hotel in Washington, D.C., last week. The objective
of the conference was to help stem the gap begun six years ago between students and their elders at Berkeley
with the Free Speech movement. The concept was stated as an attempt “to listen, to communicate, to understand.”

Honors Reading Offered

A speed reading course applying the Evelyn Woods method will be offered under the auspices of the Honors College according
to Dean Frontis W. Johnston. The optimum size for such a class is somewhere between 20-30 people, he said. At
present, approximately a dozen Honors College members have enrolled.

“I hope there will be some others. We could have 18 or 12 from outside the Honors College,” Johnston said.
The course consists of eight weekly sessions of two and a half hours each. It costs $125, but guarantees a
refund if a participant does not triple his speed as a result of the course. The skill taught in the
course is that of reading by context. Over 500,000 have taken the course. Ninety-eight percent of these have tripled their
speed. Registration for the course is open until Tuesday at Johnston's office in Gu Hall. Classes start Tuesday night at
6:30 p.m.

According to Coble, the most valuable aspect was “meeting other student body presidents, from a standpoint of perspective. It was
amazing how some problems were solved, such as student representation and how to handle dissent.” Coble noted that “the program
consisted of administration talks, not problem-solving. Our objections are to be voiced in another meeting in March. In between, we
will be deluged with material from various sources. Our opportunity in March will be unique.”

Coble went on to describe the speakers as being rather patterned. “The general pattern was to start off placating students.
Halfway through, they started to speak out against violence and to emphasize the importance of support in favor of the
American system as it stands by working quietly within the system. The most interesting speaker was Curtis Tarr (Director of
the Selective Service). He was a former college president. He attempted to explain his decision-making process with an all-volunteer army
and the removal of deferments for college students. John Mitchell was disarming. He had a very quiet manner. He expected
to be dealt with harshly and was determined to promulgate the best information for the administration. He cited several examples
of Agnew’s use of specious reasoning. Coble's impression was that ‘Hickel was the only one there to have an immediate
rapport with students. He stuck basically to issues. He was careful to delineate what was in his department’s realm and
what was not.”

Specifically to the amendment of that act giving eighteen-year-olds the right to vote after January 1st, which is now being
tested in the courts. He expressed optimism that the act would be upheld and that eighteen-year-olds would be enfranchised. The
result is the prediction that almost twenty percent of the American electorate will be under twenty-one.Voters who will vote in
1973 did not vote in 1968. Jackson observed that even if only eleven percent of the new voters chose moderate
dovish candidates, it would still make a definite impact on the outcome. Jackson concluded by mentioning several local candidates that
the movement would support. Two notables were Cliff Blue, a Democrat running for Congress from the eighth district, and Congressional
incumbent Richardson Preyer from the sixth district. Ayres then returned to the podium and outlined the approaches that would be
taken in the local campaigns. He said that this would consist of door-to-door and telephone canvassing in the Concord area
for Cliff Blue primarily. He advised a tactful approach in dealing with the prospective voters, including coat and tie, and
a reasonable haircut. Ayres closed by saying, “This movement can do a great deal to close the chasms that exist
in our society."

The Davidsonian
October 2, 1970
Page Three

(Staff photo by Davidson)

THE START OF A NEW CONGRESS
William Jackson talks at organizational meeting.

Ten Students Drive Buses For Embattled Charlotte
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Staff Writer

In response to requests from the college administration, approximately 10 Davidson students have volunteered to drive school buses for the
busing-stricken Charlotte-Mecklenburg County School District. After two weeks of classes, 16 Davidson students had indicated an interest in driving buses
and 10 began training Tuesday. Several freshmen applied, but they were advised against burdening themselves too heavily their first term
at Davidson. Peter H. Hobbie, assistant to college president Samuel R. Spencer Jr., who was in charge of the drive
to get bus drivers, told THE DAVIDSONIAN that he was very happy with the response. Hobbie further said that those
students driving buses were performing what is virtually a public service since driving requires about four hours (6 a.m. to
10 a.m. or 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.) and students are not paid for their travel time to and from
Charlotte.

Nicholls Says Tight Budget Forces Early Store Closing
By WINDY MARCH
Staff Writer

Peter Nicholls, manager of the Davidson Student Store, said Monday heavy accounting work and a tight budget force him to
close the store early during rush periods of book sales. Besides regular work-study students, Nicholls employs other student workers during
periods of heavy book sales at the beginning of each quarter. The amount of help he can hire is limited
by the budget which the college gives him. Nicholls said heavy bookkeeping work and limited help often force him to
close before the store's usual closing time of 11:00 p.m. during rush periods. He further said that most school stores
he has seen are closed all weekend and after about 5:30 on weekdays. Asked if the student store shows a
profit, he said he didn’t know; he merely keeps within the budget the school gives him. As yet, he has
had no serious help problems. The early closings, he said, did not result in many dissatisfied customers or long lines
during the day. Nicholls urged all students to buy their books for this quarter soon.

Artist Series Schedules Pop, Classic Performers
By ANDY STRAWCUTTER
Staff Writer

Sponsors of the Artist Series announced Tuesday their schedule of activities for the coming year. The New York Electric String
Ensemble, the first Artist Series performers of the year, will appear in concert Friday, Oct. 16, the first night of
Homecoming. This New York-based musical troupe specializes in everything from Bach to the Beatles with electric instruments. Students will be
admitted free to the concert, and date tickets will cost one dollar. The Piedmont Chamber Orchestra will perform Nov. 10,
led by guest conductor Leon Fleisher. Fleisher was widely acclaimed as America's greatest young pianist. Then his right hand was
crippled by disease, and he lost control of the fingers of that hand. He began playing left-handed piano repertoire. Slowly
some of his original powers began to return to his right hand. Eventually, he hopes to be able to play
with both. The Artist Series and the South Asia studies program are jointly sponsoring an Indian Kathakali theatre performance on
Nov. 18. Kathakali is characterized by elaborate costuming, singing, and dancing. William Workman, baritone soloist of the Hamburg Opera in
Germany, will sing on March 31. He is the son of psychology professor William G. Workman.
