Visiting Oceanographer Cites ‘Continuum Life’
By DICK ANDERSON
Associate Editor

The present threat from pollution is the result of man’s failure to realize that he lives in a continuum, according
to Dr. John J. A. McLaughlin, an oceanographer from Fordham University in New York.

“Man was lulled into a false sense of security by nature's ability to recover from limited abuse,” McLaughlin said during
his Danforth Lectures in the college union Monday and Tuesday. “But there is a principle of ecology that not many
people understand: I can kill indirectly by killing a factor of the food chain. I don’t have to kill the
fish to kill fish,” McLaughlin said.

McLaughlin explained that although fish are not affected by some forms of water pollution, their food sources may be killed
off by damage to factors affecting organisms which feed the food of the fish. He cited the example of baggies
covering the bottoms of streams and preventing the essential interchange between organisms in the stream floor and those floating in
or on the water.

Another result of the fact of living in a continuum was that nothing was ever lost, according to McLaughlin, except
in the sense of chemical changes. “A spit in the Mississippi,” he said, “may someday wash the shores of the
Maldive Islands.”

McLaughlin’s second lecture was on the possibility of reversing the effects of pollution. “There is nothing that cannot be accomplished,”
he said.

‘Mini-lab’
Charles L. Palmgren, an associate with the Center of Creative Interchange in Des Moines, Iowa, will visit campus Tuesday to
speak and to lead students in a mini-lab participation experience.

Palmgren, who holds a B.A. in philosophy and psychology and an M.A. in theology and psychology from Drake, will speak
at 10 a.m. on ‘The Human Potential Movement.’ That afternoon he will conduct a mini-lab dealing with such topics as
personal growth, problem solving, decision making, and sensory awareness.

Palmgren has done extensive counseling, both for individuals and groups, and has conducted a variety of workshops.

Buck’s Speech To Relate Social Science and Math
By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

R. Creighton Buck, professor of mathematics at the University of Wisconsin, will reexamine the origins of calculus and relate the
mathematical and social sciences in two Piedmont Visiting Scholars Program lectures Monday.

Both lectures will be held in Dana 114. His first lecture at 10 a.m. will be entitled “Newton Revisited.” It
will examine the origins of calculus, the branch of mathematics invented by Sir Isaac Newton in the sixteenth century. At
3:30 p.m., a reception will be held for Buck in the lobby of Dana Science Building, followed at 4 p.m.
by the second lecture, “Mathematics and the Social Sciences.”

Buck is the author of more than fifty technical articles and books dealing with analytical mathematics. From 1964 to 1966,
he was chairman of the mathematics department at Wisconsin where he has taught since 1950. He was a junior fellow
at Harvard from 1942 to 1943 and 1945 to 1947. He was also a Guggenheim Fellow from 1958 to 1959
and worked for the Institute for Defense Analyses from 1959 to 1960. Buck was recently appointed by President Richard M.
Nixon to the National Advisory Council on Education Professions Development.

The Visiting Scholars Program of the Piedmont University Center was established to provide its member institutions with...Distinguished lecturers from colleges
and universities throughout the United States and Canada. Buck's itinerary includes Mars Hill College, Catawba College, and High Point College
as well as Davidson. "Given a reasonable effort in that direction," he said. "This is something that scientists believe with
heart and soul."

However, McLaughlin warned that the decision to clean up pollution must be made immediately. In his opinion, environmental decay was
not an inevitable by-product of an industrial society, but this decay needed to be arrested within the next 20 years
or the damage would be irrevocable.

Planned labs. A lecturer in psychology, religion, and philosophy in Des Moines, and across the country, Palmgren is a former
director of the Center of Creative Interchange. He has done graduate study at Chicago, Indiana, and the College of Osteopathic
Medicine and Surgery.

(Continued From Page 1) Sigma Phi Epsilon; Charlie Parks, Phi Gamma Delta; and Rick Weddle, Sigma Chi. The freshmen will
now be represented by Class President Bill Ralston and Vice President Chip Davidson.

Bevan said that the committee had been split into two subcommittees. One, with College Treasurer Robert A. Currie as chairman,
will deal with the "financial aspects of the problem." The other, headed by Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr.,
will handle the "procedural aspects for phasing."

When asked about the status of fraternities, Bevan responded that under the trustees’ proposal fraternities had four alternatives: 1) to
remain national and in their present house, 2) to disaffiliate from nationals but remain a local fraternity, 3) to remain
nationally affiliated and move out, and 4) to disaffiliate and dissolve. Bevan stated that his hope is "that basically fraternities
will appeal to their nationals to continue their affiliation within the definition of affiliation defined by the college."

He added that a letter issued from Dean Burts’ office stating this ideal has been sent to the officials of
the national fraternities represented at Davidson. However, another committee member stated that Bevan said during Monday’s meeting that freshmen should
know that if they presently accepted bids from these fraternities, there would be no assurance that they would be eating
there next year.

Bevan said that the committee will be meeting every Thursday in the E.L. Baxter Davidson Room in Chambers and that
the meetings would be open. However, Bevan stressed that they are open "as audience, not as platform" considering that the
purpose of the committee is "to expedite matters within the limits of the trustees’ action."

Muthers Coffeehouse Theater
1225 Central Ave.
Phone 376-7100
Folk Music, Blues, Drama
Cold Beer
Open 7 nights a week 6:30 to 12:00
Rock Bands Sunday only 1-5

AT NO ADDITIONAL COST TO YOU
Let us Send You...
On A European Theatre Tour
Skiing In The Alps
Sunning on The Costa del Sol
Or Anywhere in The World!
We Represent all Airlines & Steamships
Reserve Your Hotel Rooms
Make Car Rental Arrangements
Arrange Foreign Car Purchases at Great Savings
Plan Group & Individual Sight-Seeing

For Your Convenience We Have Opened A Travel Information Desk In The Village Store
Mon. 1 to 5
TREKKER WORLD TRAVEL SERVICE
Pat & Beck Treater, Owners
SUITE 515 CHARLOTTETOWN MALL - SECOND FLOOR
CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA 28206
PHONE 704/332-6101
Wed. & Fri. 9 to 12
