She Davidsonian September 25, 1970 Page Seven

The 36th Annual Freshman Cake Race

(Staff photo by Davidson)

A HANDSHAKE FOR THE WINNER
Winner George Edwards is greeted by Karen Quant as he crosses the finish line.
(Staff photo by Davidson)

TO THE WINNER GOES THE SPOILS
Edwards gets his choice from over 80 cakes for his victory.
(Staff photo by Davidson)

OVER THE RIVER AND THROUGH THE WOODS
Nearly 200 freshmen break for the woods on their one and a half mile jaunt for cakes.

BEST POTENTIAL EVER
Recruits Bring Coach Joy
By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

With the start of practice less than a month away (Oct. 15), Davidson’s basketball power certainly won't be deficient. Coaches Terry Holland, Bo Brickles, and Neill McGeachy have done a job par-excellence by nabbing several outstanding freshmen.

Five four-year scholarships were awarded to John Falconi, Steve Gadaire, Paul Wagner, T. J. Pecorak, and Mike Sorrentino. Head Freshman Coach McGeachy confidently admitted that “pure ability-wise, this team has the best potential ever.” He also foresees adequate depth and fine balance. With this, he believes he has assembled a challenging schedule, including South Carolina, Duke, Wake Forest, Clemson, VMI, and Furman.

Coach McGeachy was quick to point out, however, that these boys have yet to practice or play together. “There is a great difference between having the potential and developing and delivering it,” he stated. “Also, we the coaches have a natural responsibility in our field to help these boys,” he commented.

As he lounged comfortably in his chair, McGeachy calmly announced that lack of height will be the primary problem. Paul Wagner, at 6'6", is the tallest of the five scholarship players. The coach expects to employ a tenacious defense along with a colorful running offense to compensate for this lack of height. “All of these boys can run and maneuver exceedingly well,” McGeachy commented.

The 'Cats have added two...

GADAIRE

Martin Remains Cautious In Viewing C-C Prospects
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

“Over the river and through the woods” may be familiar lyrics to a children’s Christmas carol, but to the members of Davidson's Cross Country team, they take on an added significance as the harriers race against the clock and across the countryside.

Coach Sterling Martin, who is beginning his first year as head coach, is approaching the coming season with cautious optimism. He cited three main reasons for his apprehension. “We are faced with the old nemesis of competing against schools who give scholarships and who have many strong runners, and this is a very difficult schedule for us also,” said Martin.

Regarding the schedule, he rated St. Andrews, VMI, Washington and Lee, The Citadel, and Campbell as teams which the Wildcats have a good chance of beating. The tougher opponents are Wake Forest, Western Carolina, High Point, and William and Mary. Martin chose the latter team to win the conference championship, noting that “they have a strong program, far superior to the other schools in the conference.” The Indians also claim the best known individual performer in Howell Michael, who won the NCAA mile last year.

The third obstacle which the team must overcome is the loss of John Puckett, James Puckett, and Stagg Newman through graduation. “We will be thin in upperclassmen,” said Martin.

Concerning the members of the team, Martin expressed pleasure with the great number of freshmen out for this year's team, noting that “this is the most we’ve ever had to try out and we should have plenty of depth.” This year’s captain is Ran Coble, a senior from Graham who is following in the tradition of recent illustrious captains. Randy Phillips and Stagg Newman are former leaders who were very active in campus affairs and Coble is no exception, serving as SGA President. Coach Martin described Coble as a “good leader who helps hold the team together. His experience is a big asset.”

Analyzing the other runners, Martin called junior Howard Boyd “the best bet to be our number one man; he is also a good leader and is in excellent condition.” Also counted on heavily are experienced sophomores Joe Shillito, Richard Fort, and Ron Clark to be among his top five performers. Seniors Jim Upchurch and Rob Hoy “could help give us added leadership,” said Martin. Bill Naylor, a junior, could break into the top five if he stays healthy.

Sixteen freshmen are out for the team and Martin singled out John McElveen, Steve Bonville, Dave Duggins, Pete Kyle, Jim Lehnberg, and Sam McAliley as youngsters that “these boys will be hindered by a lack of experience and most of them are making the big jump from two to five miles.”

Commenting on his goals in his first year as head coach, Martin remarked that it is taking him longer to work with so many individuals, and he relies on Coble for help. “When I run with them, I try to observe their technique and instill some spirit,” stated Martin. He tries to teach them the proper stride and make sure they are running in a relaxed manner. Martin stresses a quantity of running at first so the runners will be able to perform beyond...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

their limit. “Once the fundamentals are learned, then we work on pacing and strategy,” he added. The cross country program is not subsidized, and it operates on a low-pressure level. “It gives an individual a chance to make a varsity team and provides the opportunity for a physical outlet at Davidson,” he cited. Finally, Martin commended the fine job that senior Peter Lutken has done as the team manager. In addition, Martin stated, courses in the conference, with its variety and pretty surroundings and I would like to urge students to keep their motorcycles off the course. These vehicles are not to be ridden on any of our athletic fields.” It seems that the harriers can have a break-even season, and if a fast front runner emerges they may surprise some teams. Straying cyclists may find themselves being pursued by runners in an effort to clear the course as well as lower the times.

“I think we have one of the best pivot from Brandenton, Fla. and Gordan Glasgow, a 6'7" standout in San Francisco. Coach McGeachy emphasized that Davidson is more limited in recruiting than most other schools. In fact, he estimated that “only one-third of the potential scholarship players can be recruited by Davidson due to academic requirements. We require at least a 1000 on the College Board tests before we will recruit a boy,” he stated. Of course, the image projected by Davidson College, both academically and basketball-wise, has advanced greatly since 1960. Coach McGeachy believes this has brought much success, anytime and anywhere a Davidson coach recruits. Verifying this statement are the players themselves. When asked why they chose Davidson College they stated almost unanimously that it presented a fine academic atmosphere along with a top-notch basketball team. Mike Sorrenino, a six-foot guard with all Brooklyn-Queens honors in New York City, is expected to lead this year's attack. Mike played two years of varsity and received other scholarship offers which he turned down.

Much help will come from John Fatconi, an excellent all-around shooter. At 6'5" he was a Catholic All-State performer for Iona Prep in New York. Edwards Leads Frosh In Annual Cake Race By HAL CANTER Sports Writer MRS. GARNER Mrs. Bob Garner felt apprehensive Tuesday when her cake was chosen first by winner George Edwards. The prize-winning selection was described by Mrs. Garner as a “white cake with buttered cream icing.” The icing was decorated by a wildcat head and the words “Davidson.” Paul Wagner won metropolitan awards in Washington, D.C., where he played varsity ball for four years. The fact that Davidson had the best academic atmosphere in which I felt I could fully develop as a person influenced Wagner. Steve Gadaire was Catholic, All-American, New England, All-State, and All-district in his three years in Northboro, Mass. He is a 6'5" man who wanted a university with big-time basketball. T. J. Pecorak, All-State in Fairfax, Va. and All-Metropolitan in Washington D.C. is another 6'5" man. His brother is playing for the varsity.

Approximately 170 freshmen took off at the sound of Coach Heath Whittle’s pistol to compete for one of the 80 cakes at the end of a 1.7-mile race. The 36th annual Freshman Cake Race was a smashing success, organized by Coach Whittle. The race commenced at the city limits, down unto Concord, through Jackson Court, and into the football stadium. First-place George Edwards said, “the highway was the most difficult because it was a continuous incline.” The first 80 runners received a handshake from Coach Heath Whittle and their choice of the remaining cakes. The best time recorded for the race is 8:34.5 which was run by Pete Ashcraft, ‘66. This year’s best was 10:17.1. Coach Sterling Martin said, “the heat had something to do with that.” Martin also added that the race attracted “probably one of the largest spectator crowds,” for such a race. He said that the race had traditionally been established to help find cross country prospects. Now the race is run as an annual event for the freshmen. Martin mentioned that the race had the “greatest number of cakes ever.” Winner George Edwards said, “in speaking for the Class of '74, I would like to thank all the ladies who baked such fine cakes.”

The first 10 freshmen and their times in the Tuesday cake race are George Edwards 10:17.1, Mike Sorentino 10:32, Steve Bonville 10:34, Eldon Bosham 10:40, Don Butts 10:41, Chris Holly 10:44, Bob Whaling 10:47, David Reed 11:00, Peter Kyle 11:00, Ken McEveent 11:00.

FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS available for only $2.35. PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY MEMBER FDIC 200 imprinted checks Wildcat Checkbook Covers PLUS 200 Free Imprinted Checks when you open a Piedmont Savings Account Only at Piedmont Bank—a handsome vinyl checkbook in official Davidson red. Open your Checking Account now at the know-you bank. No service charges if you maintain a $100 balance! YOUR CHOICE OF TWO DAVIDSON CHECK DESIGNS: Wildcat or College Seal. FREE if you open a $300 Savings Account.