Changing The Marquee

Sew a ° oe Ss LETTERS

Peterson Says Queens Girls Are Underrated

I often became fearful that the Davidson student, once here, fabricates a curious intellectual elitism, seemingly content to sit around on his fat SAT score and do nothing. Along with the fear comes the wish that you just wouldn’t do that! After all, damn few of us are as smart as we'd like our mothers to believe. Point being, due to this intellectual snobbery a whole lot of us feel it would be below the belt-level of our dignity to engage a Queens girl in “heavy” conversation, and most of us would much prefer to engage her in a session of heavy breathing. Surprise! Surprise!

From a statistical analysis of this year's Queens freshmen class (Queens Current, September 4, 1970) I deftly surmised that “they just ain’t as dumb as we think.” Eighty percent of that class ranked in the top two-fifths of their high school graduating class. Mean SAT verbal for these coeds was 526.2, mean SAT math was 509.4, which totals 1033.6. Not bad. I can recall being told last year, before my first blind date at Queens, that my SAT scores would be almost twice that of the average Queens girl. Ain’t true, just ain’t true. I have come to the conclusion that part of the stigma we hold for Queens is due to the fact that a great many Davidson gents are selective and cunning enough to ferret out the not-so-bright one from “that school” in Charlotte (By the way, SAT scores are not the end all of intelligence). It might be plausible that through our hum-drum stimulus we tend to encourage stay-in-your-rightful-place responses from these girls? Maybe we ought to rid ourselves of our false intellectual elitism, beginning with a renovation of the Davidson-Queens relations. That would seem to be the truly enlightened action on our part. Like our janitor, Herman, said to my roomy Tuesday morning, “What it all boils down to is that there is good women, and there is bad women, and the man got to choose.”

Allen Peterson ‘71
Davidson College

Student Wishes He Could Be Freshman Now

To The Editor:

In regard to Dr. Spencer's speech, the Honors College and other recent developments:

I can honestly say that I wish I were a freshman entering Davidson rather than an upperclassman preparing to leave. (My first, and hopefully last, letter to the Davidsonian.)

Thomas R. Opie ‘71
Davidson College

B. C. the first time I

BOBBY. ALLEN

The Davidsonian
October... Page Five

Davidson Man At Hollins Finds New Home Familiar

I begin by refusing to answer the question I have been asked more than five thousand times since February: “Why are you going to Hollins for a year? Isn’t it a girl’s school?” Figure it out for yourself. There are nine of us here: five of us from Davidson, two from Washington and Lee and two from Randolph-Macon. We're living in an old house on Rt. 11, one-half mile from the Hollins campus.

Hollins geographically is a schizophrenic place. Rt. 11 running north out of Roanoke is a seemingly endless stretch of prole food places, service stations, and motels—even worse than Independence Boulevard in Charlotte. I also suspect that Route 1 is the only north-south route this side of the Mississippi. Several hundred yards off this thoroughfare is Hollins College—pastoral, quiet, bounded by sloping pastures and mountains.

Hollins is in some way much like Davidson. Founded in 1824, its average student tends to fall into broad categories. There is the W&L--UVA--Every-Weekend Crowd. Members of this group are easily spotted every Friday afternoon scampering across campus, American Tourister in hand. When engaged in conversation, they reveal encyclopedic knowledge ofEvery fraternity (and its notable members) at every college in the area. If one doesn’t happen to catch a representative of this species on Friday, or talk to her during the week, just look for a girl with a guy wearing black-and-white shoes and a three-pound fraternity pin sagging down his monogrammed alpaca sweater; sitting inside a late-model GTO. It’s a dead giveaway. 

One-hundred-eighty degrees away is the Hip Squad (a social, not anatomical category). Favorite pastime of this genre seems to be sitting on the Main Quad in bells and tee-shirts groovin’ on the trees and grass (take it either way) and really being “into” things. I learned from a hip person that we are either in the midst of “The Revolution” or on the verge of it. I forget which. 

Between these two poles are various other student types, including the Connie College variety, who wear a half-dozen different hats and is constantly collecting money for something; feminists; and Pseudo-Hip People, who are distinguished from Non-Pseudo-Hip People in that they drive Porsches to and from the Main Quad. Fortunately, there are many students who don’t fall into these and other narrow little niches. These are individuals who don't fit neatly anywhere on my categorical spectrum—the real people you want to get to know. 

Reactions to our being here vary from “Don’t you feel strange here?” (to which I have learned to reply, “No, do you feel strange here?”), to mistaking us for W&L freshmen trying to pick anyone up, to real attempts at making us feel welcome. 

Revelation of the Week: any institution which separates men from women and thus reduces their relationship to weekend marathons is by nature perverted.

Readers’ Forum
This page is reserved for your letters. THE DAVIDSONIAN welcomes letters to the editor on any subject, regardless of the views expressed. Letters should not exceed 250 words in length, and we reserve the right to correct for grammar and style. THE DAVIDSONIAN has never in recent years refused to print a letter which was in good taste and whose author could be confirmed.

LETTER
Thorne Defends Noise As ‘Friendly Rivalry’
To the Editor:

Will Rogers once said, “All I know is what I read in the newspapers.” In the Sept. 25th issue of the Davidsonian appears a letter, which if taken seriously would cause one to believe a great rift is present in the class of 1974. The subject under condemnation appeared to be noise. Yet, the overtones of the letter connotated the enthusiasm thus far exhibited by our freshman class. 

The friendly and enthusiastic rivalry of the freshmen in East and Cannon dormitories is neither new nor alien to the Davidson campus. Enthusiasm is a vital and necessary force to any successful campus individual, class, or institution. The Class of 1974 has thus far exhibited much enthusiasm, yet a few individuals wish this to be quelled. The question of noise can no longer be the issue. The real issue is a challenge to the freshman class—will it be an enthusiastic and outgoing class or a stagnant pool of effete individuals scared to be even slightly human? 

Robert Louis Stevenson once said, “A dash of enthusiasm is not a thing to be ashamed of. If St. Paul had not been a very zealous Pharisee, he would have been a much colder Christian.” The blossoms of these newly planted seeds will either bear the fruits of greatness or freeze in the chill of uniformity. So, to those members of the Class of 1974 who have that precious seed of enthusiasm, I say ‘Right On.”

Dan Thorne ‘74
Davidson College

by Johnny Hart

You know, BG,...you ought to do a talk show.
You're charming, personable and witty...
That, and a couple million insomniacs.