Yearbook Staff Fights Problems That Beset It
By STEVE ROADY
Associate Editor

In theory, Davidson’s yearbook is a product of many well-coordinated hours of efficiently divided labor. In practice, however, the publication
that appears on campus each spring is the creation of the editor and a small number of helpers, who crank
their pages out in short bursts of frenzied activity just in time to meet various deadlines.

Each year the incoming editor arranges a contract with the printing company that fixes between three and five deadlines for
the upcoming school year. About fifty pages are due at each deadline, and the week preceding each sees the drawing
together of all the materials needed to create the numerous layouts.

In order to piece together the story of the mechanics of producing the QUIPS AND CRANKS, this reporter interviewed four
of the 1969-1970 staff members: Sports Editor Johnny Bruner, Organizations Editor Fred Wilson, Photography Editor Rich Howard, and Business Manager
Craig Garner. All agreed that the position of general editor is of critical importance. Bruner observed that in past years
“the editor is the guy who has done most of the work on the yearbook,” and stated that in many
cases the editor naturally takes over the position of layout manager, simply because it is easier for him to project
his ideas directly onto the page, rather than work through someone else. He stated that in his case, the editor
decided how many pages would be allotted to each sport, then left him to his own devices until about a
week before the particular deadline.

A major duty involved in putting out the sports pages was the collection of rosters, schedules, and results. This information
was obtained from the College Information Bureau as well as from the various coaches, and did not always prove easy
to get.

Organizations editor Wilson used the computer to obtain complete lists of the members of the respective fraternities, and contacted faculty
advisers in order to secure the names of people in other organizations on campus. Other than name-collecting, Wilson’s main job
was the scheduling of fraternity pictures. This, he said, presented a two-fold problem. First, several fraternities were not overly cooperative
in showing up at the appointed times, and second, coordinating fraternity free time with photographer free time proved difficult. He
noted that in several cases the general editor ultimately had to set a final “now or never” time in order
to meet a deadline.

Photography editor Howard also commented on the fraternity scheduling difficulty. Of the three major tasks which the yearbook photographers had
to handle — finding two hundred seniors for individual portraits, locating each faculty member for an individual picture, and taking
the fraternities — Howard stated that the last involved by far the most difficulty.

Business Manager Garner began his work last spring when he submitted a budget for this year’s QUIPS AND CRANKS. But,
as is apparently the common practice, this budget was not reviewed until mid-October, when the Student Finance Committee cut it
substantially. Garner observed that the school routinely cuts proposed publication budgets while keeping a reserve on hand to meet the
resulting expense which occurs over and above the lowered final proposal.

Major revenue sources for the Quips and Cranks include advertisements, sales of yearbooks to faculty members, the Admissions Office, and
other extra-student bodies, and the collections made from all organizations that receive space in the yearbook. Garner finds this last
method of raising money “tawdry and repulsive,” but has been frustrated in his attempts to do away with it. While
acknowledging that the QUIPS AND CRANKS owes the school quite a bit of money, Garner revealed that this year’s edition
will definitely finish in the black. The problem here, he said, is that “you don’t find out how much you
are going to run in the black until the last deadline has been met,” and by that time it is
too late to go back and add “extras” such as more color.

The general mechanics of QUIPS AND CRANKS production this year involved the combined, often all-night, efforts of the general editor,
the photography editor and the business manager several days before each deadline. The photographers would work up a contact sheet
for each page included in the particular deadline, and the editor and helpers would decide which prints to use. The
layouts were done around the photos after they had been printed and cropped. Each layout sheet had to be done
in triplicate, the necessary copy had to be typed, and finally the entire bundle had to be shipped to the
printer in Maryland. Several times this year the editor had to dash to Winston-Salem to catch the 3 a.m. bus
in order to ensure the on-time arrival of the material.

As the job develops, the editor’s position demands both the talents of a creator and the skills of an administrator.
The editor must be able to produce original introductions, commentary and division pages, as well as ride herd on the
sometimes recalcitrant printing company. There seems to exist a need for a much better operating division of labor. One solution
might be the installation of co-editors, one to create, the other to administrate. The present situation calls for an inordinate
amount of work from one man.

The Davidsonian
April 24, 1970
Page Three

Historical Annual Shows ‘Self-Portrait’ Progress
By JOE SMITH
Associate Editor

“In this, our first issue, we have striven to produce a volume worthy of our institution, and while we realize
our imperfections and shortcomings we ask of our readers an indulgent criticism and that recognition and appreciation merited by all
honest endeavor.” With these words the editors of the first QUIPS AND CRANKS opened their issue of what was to
become an institution of the college for more than seventy years. For the inaugural issue, published in 1895, was the
first of a series of efforts by Davidson students at capturing and memorializing their experiences here. These volumes are a
fascinating collection because of this fact, for they mirror the ways in which Davidson men have regarded themselves over the
years.

In the first place, the inaugural edition reveals an interest in history and literature among the Davidson students of that
year. Published under the auspices of the two literary societies, Philanthropic and Eumenean, a great deal of space is devoted
to poetry. Various histories occur throughout as well: those of the college, classes, fraternities, and literary societies. Copy is the
predominant factor in this volume with photography taking a decided second place.

With the exception of the professors, all eight of them, the rest of the pictures in the ’95 QUIPS AND
CRANKS are of groups. The Davidson man portrayed himself as a member of a class (only the seniors were pictured),
a social fraternity, or an athletic team. A lighter side of the class of '95 is revealed in the nicknames
which its members possessed: Bones, Nuts, Old Soul, Goat, Baby, Mush, Lightning Rod. These brash students even had the temerity
to call their professors such names as Tilt, Project, and Old Puss.

The nature of extra-curricular activities also says a good deal about the Davidson man of 1895. Along with the usual
variety of varsity sports, a large number of clubs were available for the whiling away of idle hours. Notable among
these are the Whistling Kentz Cites Student Apathy Toward Quips And Cranks; Proposes Possible ChangesHARRELL RENTZ
Editor of Quips and Cranks

ED. NOTE: Harrell Rentz, editor of this year’s Quips and Cranks, was requested by THE DAVIDSONIAN to write about the
nature of his publication. In doing so, Rentz reveals the interest shown in QUIPS AND CRANKS by the student body
in a recent survey. Here he also discusses the crisis that QUIPS AND CRANKS faces next year since there is
as yet no editor or official staff, and offers some possible alternatives that could be implemented to give QUIPS AND
CRANKS new life.

Memory book, record of achievements and events, artistic creation, portrait of the college — throughout the years the QUIPS AND
CRANKS has played all of these roles to some extent. The first of the two major problems confronting the yearbook
today is an identity crisis: What should the yearbook be? The second problem is whether or not the time and
money spent is justified by the end result and student interest in the book. Had there been a candidate for
editor, he would simply have started to work continuing the tradition, and very little would have been said about the
yearbook one way or the other. In the present situation it is still true that very little is being said
one way or the other, but at least a few people have begun to think about whether or not the
yearbook is a tradition worthy of continuation.

Of the roles listed above, only that of “memory book” is truly unique to the QUIPS AND CRANKS. The Wildcat
Handbook, THE DAVIDSONIAN, and the Miscellany contribute more effectively to each of the other areas. “Instant nostalgia for the years
ahead.” This is one description of the yearbook proposed by the '68 editor. “The yearbook will be a nice thing
to have in fifteen or twenty years to remind me of old school days, old friends, and good times.” This
seems to be the main reason for having a yearbook, according to most defenders. Like it or not, this does
seem to be the yearbook’s reason for existence.

The extent to which the yearbook is a record of achievements and events is directly dependent on the dates of
the deadlines, which occur earlier and earlier each year. Certainly, THE DAVIDSONIAN is a more complete record. In terms of
artistic and literary qualities, The Miscellany is a highly superior publication. As a portrait of the college, the book succeeds
or fails according to the perceptions of the staff. However, good or bad, the yearbook will continue to be a
memory book as long as it contains pictures of Davidson and Davidson students.

Are students interested in having a yearbook? The results of a recent questionnaire indicated that only forty-two students were interested
enough in having a book to return the questionnaire. Of the forty-two, only twelve had the time and the interest
to serve on the staff. Of the twelve, one had limited experience working on a college yearbook, seven had experience
working on a high school book, and four had no experience. This certainly indicates a very limited amount of interest
on the part of the student body and a definite lack of experience on the part of staff members.

The future of the QUIPS AND CRANKS is shaky at best, and, in the opinion of this editor, this is
not necessarily bad. The alternatives appear to be discontinuation of the present book, a drastic change in format, or continuation
in the present form. The last may not be an alternative at all, considering the lack of experience and interest
noted earlier. Perhaps the best answer lies in a drastic change in format. The ’67 QUIPS AND CRANKS was a
step in this direction, but even this edition contained tiring group shots and lists of names. If the burden of
picturing every student in the school, listing the achievements of the seniors, and cataloguing various groups could be shifted to
a paperback spring handbook, the QUIPS AND CRANKS could be a free-form publication whose function could be capturing the spirit
of a year in photographs, artwork, poetry, and prose. It could rise to the literary and artistic level of The
Miscellany and at the same time serve as a memory book of a year in the life of a school.
Who knows, it might even be a memorable book.

HARRELL RENTZ

Club, with a membership of seven strong, and the Whist Club. A number of the mystic organizations were also available,
the most notable being the Psychical Club, which held seances every Sunday night at midnight. The issue of 1922 showed
a new emphasis on photography, although copy was still a major facet. Publication of QUIPS AND CRANKS was now the
responsibility of the senior class, so literature for its own sake was replaced by functional copy: the history of the
college, of the fraternities, and of the classes. The Davidson senior was now portrayed singly, this individual treatment being augmented
by the inclusion of his favorite saying and a character sketch in the information below his picture. Although the sketches
bordered on the frivolous (“Breaking the precedent of his native townsmen, this prodigy of Kershaw is a clog dancer of
no mean repute”), the sayings got you closer to the true character of the student who was, in the words
of one, “An upright, downright honest, honest man.” The Davidson man was serious about life, and possessed a sense of
purpose and responsibility for those around him. With this kind of attitude prevalent, it is not surprising that the interests
of most lay in the area of preministerial studies. This vocational preference is attested to by the presence in the
advertising section, along with Pride of Winston Tobacco, of the Columbia, Louisville, and Union (Richmond) Theological Seminaries. In 1922, chances
were good that the Davidson man would soon be your preacher.

In 1950, chances were good that he would be your partner. Although a number of students remained in pre-ministerial fields,
a greater number concentrated on the areas of business and/or economics. Clean-cut and smiling, it is not hard to imagine
these men on the committees and boards of the future. The copy is of the sort familiar to most possessors
of yearbooks, starting off in the traditional “Memory Lane” mode and continuing that rather banal tone throughout the book. There
is no longer any kind of history or commentary, a running monologue taking its place. The senior is presented without
any of the individualizing material which was present in earlier volumes. No nicknames, slogans, or character sketches in this issue;
only a list of organizations and honors. Written indicators of what the school was like were eliminated.

Although more radical in its departure from the traditional yearbook format than any other QUIPS AND CRANKS in history, the
1967 issue best represents the recent trend away from “Memory Lane” sentimentality. Disregarding copy altogether, the '67 edition presented itself
as a work of art rather than a mere chronicle of events. Widely discussed in terms of its value as
both chronicle and artwork, the 1967 edition certainly marked the end between the predominance of copy and predominance of photography.
Here, most clearly, it can be seen that QUIPS AND CRANKS should cease to be a formal record of happenings
at Davidson, becoming a self-portrait instead.

Quips and Cranks editor explains the publication's situation and possibilities.
