GETTING A KICK OUT OF SPRING (Staff Photos by Lyle) Placekicker Harold Wilkerson kicks a conversion in spring drills.

Spirit, Multiple Offense Breed Optimism In Drills

“With each practice you can see something new falling into place. I can't help getting excited.” Quarterback Mark Thompson reflected
the enthusiasm of this year’s football team as he commented on the excellent progress the squad has made in spring
drills.

There are problems. There are new people learning a new offense under a new coaching staff with the new pressure
as the defending conference champions for the first time in Davidson history. The players see the coming season as one
with every possibility of being a very successful one.

Thompson believes that the 1970 Wildcats will produce a more total team effort than last year’s team. “There is a
lack of a superstar, which may change before the season is over. Last year before the season started we realized
that there were some outstanding players. In a tight situation you knew that these guys would produce. Next season we
won't have anybody like that to turn to. Everyone must suck it up and realize that they must do their
part. I'm optimistic about next year. Being the quarterback I'll be expected to produce.”

Offensive guard Frank Rader added, “The morale has been very high. This is due to Coach Fagg. He knows us
and our problems.”

“The team is working harder than ever before, more conditioning and more hitting,” said Jim Hovis. Hovis, a running back
last year, will be the freshman defensive back coach.

The key topic of the spring drills has been the institution of the new multiple offense, the wishbone. It was
designed to fit this year's personnel and it seems to be working very well in practice so far. “I enjoy
it much more than anything I've ever run in the past,” Thompson said. “I love to throw, but to rely
entirely on our passing game would be ridiculous. We won't have the passing threat, but it would be stupid not
to gut it out with power runners like Mike Mikolayunas, Johnny Ribet, and David Mockbee. All these guys lower heads
and knock through the line. If these guys are consistent we will be just as well off as if we
relied on the pass.”

Rader also sees the running game as more effective this fall. “We should have a hellacious running game. We have
the material to move the ball effectively.”

Hovis also believes that the team is picking up the new offense well. “It’s amazing how well the new multiple
offense is being picked up. Thompson has a more natural arm than Slade, he just needs to get his timing
down.”

The Wildcats are in for a new experience this fall, the other teams will be aiming for them from now
on. “We may have to play over our heads in a few games next year, but I expect to repeat
as champions,” said Rader. “Our key game will be the opener with Richmond. From what I understand their whole spring
practice has been geared against us. If they should win they say it will make their season.”

Footballers Ink Final Prospects

Davidson football coach Dave Fagg knew when he took the job in February that he was getting a very late
start in recruiting. Putting together a representative freshman team for next fall would be a sizable task, he reasoned. But
Fagg announced 25 signings Wednesday, bringing the total to 44 for the year. The announcement completes this year's signings and
Fagg believes it is the best group of incoming freshman football players ever enrolled at the school. “I just can't
find the words to say how pleased I am. Our assistant coaches have just gone out and worked as hard
as they possibly could,” Fagg said. “We've got 44 of the finest players Davidson has ever had.”

Cantrell Credits Coaching, Attitude For Perfect Personal Season Mark

By A. W. TURNER Asst. Sports Editor

Winning is nothing strange to this year’s Southern Conference number five tennis champion. Jim Cantrell has played on Davidson's tennis
team for three years, and his cumulative singles record for that time is 50-3. The junior netter has never lost
to a conference foe.

Cantrell, who hails from H. B. Plant High School in Tampa, Florida, has played number five throughout most of his
three-year college career. This year he won 22 consecutive matches in an undefeated season. Asked why an undefeated player would
be number five, Cantrell said, “This year's team was very balanced. Instead of having one real good player, one not
quite as good as the number one player, and so on down through the six places, we had a team
on which almost anyone could have played three or four, no one really good enough to play number one, and
anybody good enough to play through number five opponents undefeated.”

Cantrell was all praise for tennis coach Harry Fogleman. “Coach Fogleman is a great help in helping us plan tactics.
He helps you get the most of what you've got. I know he has made me a much smarter player.
Coach Fogleman also puts a great deal of stress on temperament and court attitude. You have to be able to
accept the fact that you aren’t the best tennis player in the world, and that you’re going to miss some
shots. It really gets funny sometimes if I’m playing someone who can’t hold his temper. But as far as I’m
concerned, the more he yells and throws his racket the better, because the madder he gets the worse he plays.

“Something also a tennis player has to remember is to never let up. Sometimes if you're winning too easily you
tend not to try as hard. But if you let up, you may lose three or four points right in
a row. What it amounts to is that you have to try to beat your opponent as badly as you
can and get the match over with. Coach Fogleman leaves the training mainly up to each individual. He has enough
confidence in each of us to know that we're going to keep in shape and not stay out too late
the night before a match.”

It would seem that a netter with a record such as his would like to be playing for some big
university with a subsidized program, but Cantrell disagrees. “I picked Davidson because I wanted to come to a school where
I could get a good education and play tennis. I like the situation as it is here. It gives me
the chance to play against guys in my competition range. Since the program is not subsidized, I am under no
pressure to be out on the court practicing three or four hours every day. Academics come first.”Coach Fogleman feels very
much this way. In charge of the physical education program as one portion of his duties, he believes that the
current program is largely successful in its present form. “There has been a lot of improvement in the program over
the last few years,” said Scott. “It's better now than it ever has been in the past. I think it
is successful, but you could always find fault with anything. It could be worse,” but it could be better.

Colonel Frederick Outlaw, Athletic Manager, agreed with Scott's position. “I would say that the program accomplishes its mission but that
it could be improved.” At the same time, Sterling Martin, an instructor in the program who is currently handling most
of the administrative details such as class roles and grades, did not condemn the present program but warned that it
seems to be drifting without a definite purpose at the moment. “I think that the program hit a low point
a few years ago and right now we are on the rise,” Martin said. “We are at a point now
where we must make some decisions as to how the program is to be structured and run.”

The question of the form of the physical education program is perhaps the key one which remains to be resolved.
There is no consensus among the administrators of the program as to just what they hope to provide in the
class periods. Outlaw came out in favor of the idea of physical development as the chief function of the program.
“It is my own personal belief that the physical education program should place its primary emphasis on instruction and physical
development. Intramurals have been established as the recreational portion of the program.”

Scott and tennis instructor Harry Fogleman saw a different task for the program. “As I understand the program, it is
to be recreational,” said Fogleman. “In a college of this type, a recreational period is the best possible alternative.” Scott
concurred, “A lot of the program is just for fun. We would like to place the emphasis on sports that
the student can carry over; we'd like to introduce more sports.” “We're running a planned recreation program,” Martin said. “The
premise is that it is desirable to introduce various activities.”

Scott added, “The college has to decide what it wants. If we want an extensive program, we will need a
regular physical education instructor to handle it.” This points to a problem within the physical education department. The instructors double
as intercollegiate coaches. Although both Martin and Scott said that there is a serious attempt made to ease the load
on a coach during the season in which he has coaching responsibilities, there is still considerable pressure on each coach.
Martin pointed out, “Each coach naturally is more concerned with his team than the physical education aspect. We need qualified
instructors if we want to really expand and make the program valuable for more students.”

Scott agreed that the presence of a full-time physical education instructor would be beneficial but said, “Our big need is
a woman who can give the weeks of instruction. That would be ideal, but in the meantime, we're okay.”

The perennial question of the students is why the program is required. The consensus of the administrators is that the
program should be continued as required. Scott said, “I think we should maintain the required aspect. There are a lot
of boys who wouldn't appear for any kind of activity.” Outlaw added that he favored four years of instruction. “You
have to look beyond the program and to the continued development of the individual. No program can be cut off
after two years and be called successful or unsuccessful.” Martin concluded, “Personally, I would like to see a more voluntary
situation. We're the kind of place that can make things so exciting that the boys will be interested, like the
skiing and lake campus. I hardly think it could reach people any more ineffectively than what we are doing now.”

Unique Attractions Feature Summer Tennis Programs

The large response for the summer tennis camp on campus can be attributed in large part to the unique plans
which Director Harry Fogleman has laid out for the occasion. One feature which is of interest to many of the
better players in the region is the special section for tournament players. This section will be open only to ranked
players. In this concentrated section, Fogleman will go over the particular situations which face the tennis players in tournament competition.
Not only strategy but also training and psychological preparation for tournament competition will be covered in the clinic.

Another unusual feature of the camp will be the complete testing program which will be administered to each individual camper.
Fogleman designed the test himself and the college has such a high opinion of the test that it will copyright
it. The test is designed to analytically evaluate each phase of the individual's game in order to make individual instruction
as profitable as possible in terms of correcting the most serious flaws in the player's game.

Another unusual aspect of the camp, at least as far as Davidson is concerned, is that it will be coeducational.
Several members of the Davidson varsity will serve as counselors with senior Randy Jones serving as Fogleman’s assistant. Fogleman’s only
regret with the program is that he will not be able to go to Europe again this summer. “This precludes
any clinics in Europe,” he said. “And I will have to miss Wimbledon this year.”

Cat Schedule Ranked 96th On Basketball List

Now that the basketball season is over, Professor Gordon Wise of Wright State University has made his year-end compilations of
the toughest schedules in the country, and Davidson's schedule slipped them just barely into the nation's top 100. The Wildcats’
regular season opponents were regarded as the ninety-sixth toughest slate in the nation. Of the teams listed in the top
twenty-five teams in the country by performance, only seven played easier schedules. All eight ACC schools placed schedules in the
top 32 in the nation. In the Southern Conference, the Wildcats played the hardest schedule without the benefit of playing
themselves. Richmond was only two spots farther back in second place. Wise indicated that major conference teams generally have the
toughest schedules and placed at least part of the blame for the performance of Clemson on their second hardest schedule
last winter. Virginia, Duke, and Wake Forest also finished the year with schedules regarded as among the ten hardest in
the country.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-1496

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 to 10:30
Davidson, N. C.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies
Phone 892-2111
131 N. Main St.

THE HUB
OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY
FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA FILL ‘ER UP
C. W. STOWE'S ESSO
For All Your Motoring Needs
“We Know Your Car Like A Book”
Main & South Streets
Davidson, N. C.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.

THE BODY SHIRT
New Shirts, long sleeves and half sleeves by Sero and Van Heusen
Come browse and select yours today.
John Mock & Son
Mooresville
Our 58th Year
