In IMAC Tournament
By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The rain-plagued IMAC flickerball tournament resumed play Wednesday, as the Sigma Chi’s stopped the ATO’s 14-0 and Cannon II outscored
the Betas 40-32 in first-round action. This set the stage for Tuesday's quarter-final round, with the Machis (7-4) meeting the
Sig Eps (9-1), and Cannon II (8-5) taking on the SAE’s (9-1).

In yesterday's other two games, the KA’s (6-4) met the Kappa Sigs (9-1) and the Pikas (1-9) locked horns with
the Delts (9-1) in a game which should go a long way toward deciding the outcome of the tournament. Semifinals
are slated for today, with the Machi-SPE winner facing the Sig-KA victor and the winner of the Delt-Pika clash squaring
off against the SAE-Cannon II winner.

Tailback John Saunders flipped two TD passes and threw for both extra points to pace the Machis past the Taus.
Walt Walker and Reif Kessler were on the receiving end of Saunders’ aerials, and Herb Clegg grabbed both PAT’s. Clegg,
Kessler, and Jim Hudson spearheaded an aggressive defense which kept the Taus bottled up all afternoon. The ATO’s had advanced
to the match via a sudden-death verdict over the Indies last Monday. Doug Hickman passed to Mort Chiles and Jim
Roy hit Jim Hawkins for the ATO TD’s, and Chiles ended the overtime with an interception on the third series
of downs. Regulation play had ended 13-13.

Surprising Cannon II, behind the running and passing of tailback Calvin Allen, ran up a 40-12 lead and then held
off the Betas to chalk up the tourney’s first upset. Allen threw for two touchdowns and started three flicker plays
which went for scores. Gary Bressler snagged three scoring tosses and Chris Holly, John Brandon, and Larry Rudell each scored
once. Brandon, Holly, Todd Eaves, and Raybun Williams led the defense which held the Betas in check while the offense
roared away to a 34-6 halftime lead. Dick Allison, Henry Marrow, and Jay Bowen sparked the late Beta surge, but
it was too little, too late. It was the sixth straight win for Cannon II, which knocked the Phi Gamms
out on Monday 14-7. Allen threw for one score and Robbie Little scored on a punt return for the winning
tally after the Gamms had rallied to tie the score 7-all.

The winner of the tournament will receive five points in the IMAC standings. The league championship is determined by overall
won-loss percentage, including tournament games.

Freshman Football:
Davidson's freshman team travels to Charleston tomorrow to meet The Citadel’s freshman. Kickoff for tomorrow’s contest is set at 2
p.m. Gene McEver’s Wildkittens will carry a 1-4 record into the game.

Holland Plans Scrimmage
By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

Head Coach Terry Holland has announced that the first major basketball scrimmage has been set for Nov. 19 in the
Charlotte Coliseum, when the varsity Wildcats meet the freshmen Wildkittens. “This will be a very important scrimmage, since the team
needs to work under game conditions,” Holland commented. “We plan to add a few new wrinkles to last year’s offense,
the basic change involving shifting the stack offense to the right side of the court.” Holland stated the presence of
left-handed shooters was one of the reasons he decided to switch the stack. He plans to invite all the high
school teams in the Charlotte area, and the general public is also invited. There is no charge.

Concerning the starting team, Holland stated, “I can’t begin to give you an idea of the starting five.” He said
that each day two or three different players have outstanding practices. Overall, Holland stated Eric Minkin has shown the greatest
rate of improvement. He also had high praise for sophomores Gordon Graham and John Pecorak. “John Pecorak is just doing
an exceptional job,” stated Holland. “I’m having problems finding a spot to fit him in. He may be a post
man, though he is a little short at 6'6". He also could play open wing.” He also thought that Graham,
a 6’3" guard, had shown a lot of promise in practice.

Booters
By ERNIE SHIPE
Sports Editor

Head Coach Harry Legleman stated Davidson's soccer season “rests between eleven and one o'clock tomorrow” as they meet The Citadel
here. Saturday's game will be the last Southern Conference match for the booters and should be a preview to the
championship game later in the season.the month. The Wildcats will be out to snap a two-game losing streak tomorrow. Wednesday,
the ‘Cats dropped a 5-0 decision to Jacksonville. Jacksonville topped The Citadel 13-4 earlier in the season.

Grid Club Interest
By JOE EARLE
Sports Writer

Students interested in playing football on an intercollegiate level, but unable to play on the varsity team, may find an
outlet in club football. Some members of the Davidson community have expressed interest in organizing a Davidson football club. Several
schools in the area have organized clubs, including The University of North Carolina, North Carolina State University, and East Carolina.

“This is real football, played by boys who would like to play football on a collegiate level, but cannot find
the time to participate on the varsity,” stated C. Shaw Smith, director of Student Union. Smith has been very involved
with the club at UNC because his son is a kicker for the team. He is very interested in seeing
a program organized at Davidson because he feels that there are many students on campus who would be interested in
playing in a football league, but for various reasons are unable to participate in the present system of varsity athletics.

“Most of all, the club system allows a player to have just a great amount of fun,” he said, “without
the usual pressures that accompany regular varsity athletics.” The team at UNC includes students, graduate students, and members of the
faculty. The operating money for the club is raised by the club members, and each player is responsible for supplying
his own equipment.

Smith said he felt a system of club football at Davidson could be most easily organized through some existing organization,
such as the Union, the YMCA, or the SGA. He feels it best that the team be coached by interested
faculty members. The club at UNC was organized through the Dean of Student Affairs office. Smith emphasized the fact that
the football club was to be in no way in competition with regular varsity athletics. “This is for people who
love football,” he said, “but are unable to play on the varsity level.” “It is in no way intended to
supplant what now exists,” Smith stated, “but is to enlarge upon it.” The club at UNC claims that they are
organized to play “football for fun.”

Smith commented on the excitement that accompanied one of the games he attended. He stated it was a game in
which everyone played just for the pleasure of playing, and every team member participated. According to UNC literature, there are
plans for two teams, a regular club and a 160-pound club.

Semifinals Begin Today
November 6, 1970

Jacksonville picked up three quick goals in the first period on their way to the victory and added two in
the final stanza. However, both Fogleman and assistant Peter Sterling were pleased with Davidson's effort in the loss. “Jacksonville has
to be rated among the top three soccer teams in the South and included in the top twenty in the
country,” Sterling said. “They passed real well and were very quick. They had to be the best team we faced
in a long time,” Fogleman added. Neither he nor Sterling could explain the fast scoring attack Jacksonville mounted in the
first period. “We had terrible lapses on defense,” Fogleman said. “I think we should have played them to a 1-0
or 2-0 game.” Fogleman explained that Davidson gave Jacksonville four of their five goals. “Three of their goals bounced off
our fullback and the other came on a penalty kick,” Fogleman and Sterling both praised Guamundur Kartsson and Joe Yochem
for their effort in the loss.

Davidson suffered its second loss of the season last Friday as they were downed by East Carolina, 3-1. John Bruner
registered the only goal for the ‘Cats. Several of the players and the coaches felt the squad was looking ahead
for the Jacksonville and Citadel games in the loss. They also explained that East Carolina played one of their best
games of the season. Coaches Fogleman and Sterling said they felt the loss of Tim Winter and Dick Spinner have
hurt the squad in the past two games. Both have been out with injuries and are expected to be able
to play in tomorrow’s game with The Citadel.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA
