Press (ACP). ~ highest possible mark of distinction.

A PREVIEW
By TY TIPPETT
Staff Writer

The Artist Series attraction for next Friday's Homecoming activities will be John Chappell, in a special production of Hal Holbrook’s
famous “Mark Twain Tonight.” The New York Electric String Ensemble has had to completely reorganize itself and will not be
prepared to perform at Davidson during Homecoming as was scheduled.

John Chappell is Holbrook’s protégé and carries on the famous Samuel Clemens impersonation where Holbrook left off. Chappell makes every
effort to assure the most realistic portrait. The makeup alone, the same kind Holbrook used, takes over three hours to
apply. The white suit he wears is carefully tailored to resemble the one Samuel Clemens wore when he was alive.
Rare actual photographs of Mark Twain lent to Chappell by the Special Products Division of NBC Television provide detailed studies
of the humorist’s characteristic mannerisms in standing, smoking, and sitting.

Chappell has received excellent reviews. He recently received two standing ovations at the University of South Carolina. “To see John
as Mark Twain,” said Don Smith of Atlanta Magazine, “is to be convinced that the old man is living, breathing,
and talking. The stories are wonderful, the style felicitous, and the impersonation amazing.” He kept a really big crowd shaking
with laughter and listening with alertness, splitting our sides, and making shivers go down our back," said Dowling of The
Beaufort Gazette.

Hal Holbrook, originator of the “Mark Twain Tonight!” presentation, is now one of the stars in the NBC drama television
series “The Bold Ones.” Student tickets for the performance are free and date tickets are $1.00. Tickets will be available
at the Union desk starting Monday, and all students should pick up their tickets by noon Thursday to be sure
of getting a free seat.

THE DAVIDSONIAN received 3,580 points out of a possible four thousand, qualifying it for a first-class honor rating. In addition,
the judges awarded the newspaper a mark of distinction in four of five areas, making the All-American rating. Excellence was
cited for coverage and content of the news, the writing and editing of the paper staff, editorial leadership, and physical
appearance. Only in the quality of photography was the paper denied a mark of distinction. The present problems in this
area are mainly due to technical difficulties, the judges said.

College newspapers from across the nation are rated twice yearly by the ACP and the National Student Press Association. For
the first time this year, it was decided that newspapers could not receive an All-American rating on the basis of
technical skill alone. The papers must show, the judges decided, liveliness, creativity, and appeal beyond the fundamentals of good journalism.
The change in the basis for the award was necessitated by the continuing rise in the quality of collegiate journalism
according to the ACP.

“Quips & Cranks” Funds Approved

Campus radio station WDAV reported Tuesday that funds have been approved for the “Quips & Cranks,” ending speculation that the
yearbook would be scrapped this year. The news report said the exact appropriation from the student activities fee had not
been fixed by the college finance committee, which this year is planning student activities budgets. “Quips & Cranks” usually receives
some $13,000 each year. Its publishing contract is renewable each year. There remains some speculation that the yearbook may be
discontinued after next year unless student interest in its publication increases. Last year, election deadlines had to be extended before
a candidate signed on for the editor’s post.

Films Sponsored
By DAVID GRISSETT
Managing Editor

The Cocurricular Council this week began one of several new activities that it has planned for more completely coordinated campus
programs. The short film series began during lunch Wednesday in the Morrison Room of the College Union. “Moods of Surfing”
and Charlie Chaplin’s “Sparring Partner” were shown. A series of such short films is to be shown during lunch hours
by sophomores Robert Banta and Charlie Williams.

Rich Cowart, vice president of Union Cocurricular, stated that the next project to be launched is the art rental service.
This program features twenty pieces purchased from Lakeside Studios to be rented by the term for a small fee. Eleven
pieces have been framed and will be on display soon in Chambers Lobby.

Cowart said that Cocurricular’s short-term programs are designed for “improving by stimulating and coordinating.” He further stated that presently there
is much duplication of scheduling and funding of various programs on campus. Besides sponsoring stimulating events and programs, Cowart said
that Cocurricular hopes to be a fifth area of the Extended Studies Programs.As a film seminar with critical viewing and
creating of films could be submitted for credit in the other areas, thereby reducing the stress on isolated departments. By
relating several programs to a topic and to a coordinated media pool, such as the successful Vietnam Week held last
spring, Co-curricular hopes to eliminate the "secondary and haphazard" learning experience offered outside the classroom, said Cowart. The council has
representatives from Free University, the Union, YMCA, the art department, Black Student Coalition, Radio Station, and interested faculty Rupert Barber
and Frederick Gaiige. Open council meetings are held in the Union Blue Room every Tuesday during lunch. All those with
ideas and suggestions are invited to attend or post their ideas on the Co-curricular bulletin board now in the Union
lobby, Cowart said. Cowart added that faculty cooperation with Co-curricular "has been excellent." Though there is no official director for
co-curricular affairs, Cowart said that College President Samuel Spencer and others have considered the idea, but a definite proposal has
not been made.

Students Enjoy Seminar Abroad
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

What do the students who spent their spring term last year in Greece and Italy think about studying classics in
the space of Western culture? "Exciting is the word to use," says Mark Affeldt, and his fellow students agree that
it was an unforgettable 72 days in high gear. Sample their reactions to this new program.

Greg Gandee: It was one of the most educational, well-spent things I've ever done in my life—a worthwhile experience.

Roger Powell: We lived and ate classics. It was a more intense program than anything you get at Davidson.

Bob Wood: As far as a total learning experience goes, I don’t think Davidson can equal the program with anything
else—not even the year abroad.

Tom Ross: It’s the greatest thing I ever did. I learned more than I've ever learned in a period that
short before.

Affeldt: It was educational but on a different level. The idea of being away from campus was good. It gives
you an opportunity to continue your education outside this college, which as everyone knows is not the whole world.

The seminar, headed by Dr. George Labban, traveled in Greece, Italy, and France, and some even took short visits to
Crete and Turkey during some free time. But what is it like trying to pack a knowledge of Southern Europe
and thousands of years into ten weeks?

Ross: We worked hard, but it was worth every minute. I didn't even notice the time. My education in classics
was so poor before I went—I learned so much about history, art, and even modern situations.

Gandee: Some days it was 8:00 in the morning to 10:00 at night. You had to allow an hour just
to get to some of the sites from where you were staying. We had to read a lot and classes
were long, but they were all outside and in different locations. Each student conducted one class in Greece and Italy,
and sessions lasted up to four hours. But the experience had no substitute in the classroom.

Wood: When you get beyond books and memorizing facts you can still learn a lot. Studying a ruin is much
more relevant when you're sitting on top of it.

Powell: Take Miletus, for example. You see rocks sticking out of a flooded pasture, and this is all that is
left of a great civilization but it means something then.

Gandee: Greece was the prettiest country I saw and it had the friendliest people. The food there was better than
anywhere else I went. Every student did an overall project, and the format ranged from studies in temple architecture and
city designs to a thumbnail sketch of the trip with taped dialogues and slides. One student wrote impressions of the
different people he met abroad, including their perspectives on inter- (See CLASSICS, Page Ten)

60 Join Step Program
By DOUG BROWN
Staff Writer

Sixty students showed their social awareness by volunteering to become tutors for the Student Tutorial Education Program (STEP). Freshmen have
shown a particular interest in this YMCA-sponsored program, and the number of tutors involved in helping elementary school children from
Davidson and Cornelius is the largest in its history. Originally, it was planned to make STEP somewhat limited this year
because some tutors have found it necessary to leave the program in the middle of the year. This has had
a detrimental effect on the elementary school students, but it is hoped that with such a large number of participants
this year that this can be avoided. This is one of the most successful YMCA projects, and its chairman this
year, Adrian Long, has been involved in STEP for two years. "We are very pleased that Adrian Long is handling
STEP this year because of his long experience and dedication," said Gregory Scott, YMCA president.
