Che Vol. LX, No. Five

Trustees Approve Self-Selection

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
October 16, 1970

College Cancels This Year’s Rush
By RICHARD WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The Davidson College Board of Trustees voted Friday to maintain a social system of small groups according to the principles
of affiliation and equal participation in all activities on a self-selection basis. The board did say, however, that national fraternities
may stay on campus as long as they conform to these principles.

“We are not abolishing fraternities," said College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. after the meeting. “They may remain, in fact
we hope they will stay, as long as they adhere to these standards.”

(Staff photo by Davidson)
CHARTING A COURSE
Spencer, right, confers informally with trustees.

Dorm Renamed
In other action Friday the board voted to rename East dormitory after Dr. Mark Edgar Sentelle, former dean of students
and a man long associated with the life of the college. College president Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said Sentelle is
“remembered by most alumni over a long period of time as one of the really significant personalities of the college.”

The trustees also designated the old Carolina Inn next to the post office for renovation and use by the Honors
College. Spencer announced a $50,000 grant from the Surdna Foundation of New York would be used for that purpose. He
said a total of $80,000 would be needed for a complete renovation, so work would not begin until the remaining
$30,000 could be raised. After renovation, the inn will house offices for the Honors College dean and his secretary, a
lounge, dining room and kitchen, seminar rooms, and a bedroom suite for special guests of the Honors College.

The trustees did not give final consideration to the proposed recomposition of the board. That measure is now slated for
action at the trustees’ spring meeting on campus.

Self-Exams Approved
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

The proposal for self-scheduled exams passed its last administrative obstacle by a faculty vote of 45-26 a week ago last
Tuesday and will be instituted in the winter term. Student Senate President Ran Coble hailed its passage as “an example
of the fact that student government can work; I am encouraged by the initiative capacity of the faculty.” Vice President
for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, chairman of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC), pre- (See SELF, Page Two)

The board outlined the following policy:
“1. The college will continue to make available the present fraternity houses in Patterson Court for small group dining, social
and extra-curricular purposes.

“2. After a possible initial period of random selection, affiliation with the groups occupying the houses will be based on
the choice of the individual rather than on invitation from the groups. As a part of the phasing process into
the new arrangement, which will go into effect in September 1971, there will be no ‘rush’ supervised by the college
during the current academic year for fraternities occupying houses on Patterson Court.

“4. The college will assume responsibility in Patterson Court for financial obligations incurred prior to the current academic year by
any fraternity chapter which wishes it to do so, provided that accounts receivable are also turned over to the college.

“5. The college will assume responsibility for furnishing the houses in Patterson Court. (It is proposed that the college put
into a Furnishings Fund an amount equivalent to the professionally appraised value of the furnishing of any fraternity willing to
leave its furnishings in the house for current use. A chapter not wishing to enter into this arrangement would have
the privilege of disposing of its furniture as it wishes.

“In the case where debts are owed to the college or where the college assumes outstanding financial obliga-tions of a
fraternity, such amount would be applied toward a settlement involving the furnishings.)

“6. That any fraternity wishing to continue operation on Patterson Court in accordance with the above principles of affiliation and
equal participation in all activities on a self-selection basis will be able to retain the house it now occupies.

“7. Any fraternity which wishes to leave Patterson Court and have its meetings elsewhere may do so, so long as
its meeting place does not include the operation of living or dining facilities.”

Both Spencer and Warner L. Hall, board chairman, hope that Davidson will lead in a new type of fraternity affiliation."

LRA, Dhkere

Friday, Oct. 16
8:15 p.m. Artist Series: Love Auditorium Mark Twain Tonight
10:00 p.m. Card Tricks: Bill Spooner Union Bar
10:15 p.m. Movie: “The Sterile Cuckoo” Morrison Room
10:30 p.m. Poetry Reading: Diane Wakoski Union Bar
12:00 a.m. Festival on the Porch Union Porch
1:30 a.m. “Mara Loves”

Saturday, Oct. 17
12:00 p.m. Barbecue
1:50 p.m. Skydivers
2:00 p.m. Football: Davidson vs. Furman Richardson Field
4:00 p.m. Reception & Refreshments Union Lawn
8:00 p.m. Concert: Kenny Rogers & First Edition Love Auditorium
10:00 p.m. All-Campus Dance: Freeway Chambers Dining Hall
10:15 p.m. Movie: “The Sterile Cuckoo” Morrison Room
12:00 a.m. “Celebration” Morrison Room
1:30 a.m. “Mara Loves” Morrison Room
2:14 a.m. Movie: “The Sterile Cuckoo” Morrison Room
2:30 a.m. Concert: Baron Morrison Room
5:30 a.m. “Celebration” Morrison Room

Genetic Would Ban Selective Houses
By JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer

Calling for “an immediate change in the social system,” the student senate Monday night recommended keeping national fraternities which agree
to operate on a nonselective basis and constituting nine houses as eating clubs.

Juniors Cecil Burney, Danny Clodfelter and sophomore Robert Dawson led the fight for the acceptance of the proposals, according to
senate President Ran Coble.

The recommendations read: “In our proposal for a social system there are three guiding principles:
“(1) The most important concern is to provide an adequate social life for everyone;
“(2) An immediate change in the social system is needed;
“(3) The specifics of the change should be decided by the students, faculty, and administration on campus with the trustees
in a yea-or-nay saying capacity. The power is theirs to approve or disapprove the change, but they should not dictate
a specific change.

“The student senate recommends a system of nine eating clubs on a nonselective membership basis. National fraternities which allow nonselective
membership should be allowed to stay on campus.

“With three houses vacated, one of these houses might be study-oriented, perhaps with seminar rooms and faculty offices. Another house
might be used for a snack bar or delicatessen. The third might contain the pool tables, billiard tables, and ping
pong tables from the Union, thus providing a recreation house with TV and card room and also the opportunity to
enlarge the bookstore.

“As far as the national fraternities off campus are concerned, rush would still be regulated by the college.

“With regard to finances, all members of the student body must pay a basic social fee to support this new
system whether they are members of on-campus houses or off-campus national fraternities.

“Only those affiliated with the on-campus houses, however, would pay the housing fee. Boarding will be on an ‘individual vs.
organization’ basis, that is, the individual will decide with the organization as to what the charges for that person's board
will be.

“We also recommend the (See SENATE, Page Two)

Inside
The Homecoming Queen: candidates’ pictures are on Page 7 along with a pre-game analysis.
Mrs. Nicholls denies that a date housing shortage exists, on Page 6.
Editorials ............... Page 4
