ROWLAND CASTIGATES NIXON

MAY 8, 1970

Davidsonian

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY

GRAHAM VIEWS DRAMA PRODUCTION (See Page Four)

NUMBER TWENTY-SIX

(Staff photo by Lyle)

SAT-IN ON ROTC

ROTC officer grins, and bears it.

Committee Tells Of Policy Details

By SCOTT DAVIDSON
News Editor

Negro admissions, recruiting, and readmittance after leaving the college were prime topics of discussion in the series of open meetings of the Admissions Committee held over the past week. A final meeting is scheduled for this morning. Richard C. Burts Jr., William B. Hight, H. Edmunds White, Jon W. Regen, Anthony Abbott, Ralph W. Gable, and L. R. King were the committee members present.

In an opening statement on Monday, Hight explained the general policies of the Admissions Committee in evaluating an application. He said that the application forms were all assembled into a manila folder. Each folder was then individually reviewed by several committee members.

One of the initial questions from the floor was whether the committee advocated a policy of lowering standards to permit admission of minority group members. Abbott said that standards were not lowered for athletes, alumni, blacks or anyone else. From the floor audience, David Sweatt suggested a hypothetical situation. He asked whether a black student with high boards but radical political views would be discriminated against. Hight answered negatively, saying that such a situation would require a look at the total application.

The committee was questioned about the extent of recruiting. Regen said, “We have been hindered by the size of our staff.” He explained that they had been doing a good job in the state, in surrounding states, and in major metropolitan areas.

Students then questioned the committee on their policy toward readmission of students who had left the college in good academic standing. White said that it is always possible to return to the college. The only time it was not guaranteed was in the fall term because they always reached their highest enrollment at this time.

Senate Backs Boycott

By GEORGE KANEKLIDES
Staff Writer

Although the Faculty Executive Committee refused to act on the matter, the SGA Senate Wednesday night passed a resolution endorsing a nationwide student boycott of classes on Thursday to protest the invasion of Cambodia.

Boycott organizer Peter Hobbie asked for Senate endorsement of the class boycott. Cecil Burney, who made the formal motion for adoption, pointed out that a student strike might conflict with the college administration’s dissent policy. That policy states that “immediate suspension” would be justified for any student who disrupts the “normal processes or activities of the college.” A final vote on the boycott endorsement showed nine senators in favor with three opposed.

Those in favor were Burney, Roger Mills, Al Norris, Danny Clodfelter, Bill Alexander, Charley Ralston, Don Bailey, Jim Upchurch, and Chip Price. Allen Peterson, Gerry Bello (See SENATE, Page 4)

TELLING IT TO NIXON

(Staff photo by Davidson)

Jackson, Kaylor gather signatures for telegram to the President.

Campus Erupts In Protest Cambodia, Kent State

Three Professors Hold Peace Vigil

By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

Like other campuses across the nation, the Davidson College campus saw a week of protest against the invasion of Cambodia by armed American troops and the massacre of students by Ohio National Guardsmen at Kent State University. There were many groups staging demonstrations, holding vigils and memorial services probably involving about half of the student body.

Three professors conducted a peace vigil in front of the Davidson Post Office from Wednesday morning through Friday night, collecting signatures for a telegram to President Nixon and distributing information on the war.

Anti-War Protesters Force Cancellation Of ROTC Drill

A group of about one hundred students forced the cancellation of part of ROTC drill Tuesday afternoon. Col. Virgil Foster, professor of military science, cut short the afternoon exercises because in his words, “We didn’t want a confrontation.”

(Staff Photo by Lyle)

WHERE NOT TO CATCH YOUR FISH... Rocky River water proved fatal to several silver minnows.

‘Environment Tuesday’ Features Galifianakis, Panel, Fish-Killing

By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

The Davidson ECOS, in an effort to bring the pollution problem to the public eye in a dramatic way, poisoned some fish in a tank on the Union porch of ‘Environment Day’ Tuesday morning. Minnows were placed in a tank of water from the Rocky River, which many older people in the Davidson community can remember swimming in. The water was a dark green murky color. Assistant professor of Biology David G. Grant explained that there is no life in Rocky River except “bacteria by the gross ton.”

The ECOS also brought to the campus as a featured speaker Fourth District Representative Nick Galifianakis of Durham, who spoke in the Morrison Room at 10 a.m. Galifianakis, joking that “after 3000 years we Greeks are fashionable again,” said that the solution to the pollution problem was people—especially young people organizing to do something about it. Galifianakis said that the only pollution problem to be solved in the streets is picking up litter, and doubted that many revolutionaries would “stoop to conquer.” Unfortunately, he added, people, as well as being the solution, are also the problem. He cited the survey of students at Cornell University which showed that while 84 percent felt the size of families should be limited, 65 percent also wanted to have more than two children.

During the question-and-answer period, Galifianakis expressed the hope that the population problem could be solved without too much government intervention, “I want to keep the government out of the bedroom,” he said. He also encouraged the audience to write their Congressmen. “You’d be surprised,” he assured the audience, “how much a letter from a constituent can do.”

“Environment Day” activities continued with a panel discussion on pollution in Charlotte. There were some analyses of the problem and some novel suggestions for solving it. Assistant Professor of Economics Robert L. Avinger said the problem was basically an economic one. Air and water, he said, are becoming “rare resources,” yet people use them as if they were free. He theorized that the costs of driving a car or polluting rivers are higher to the society than to the individual polluter. Therefore, he said, people should be made to pay for the right to pollute resources. A tax on gas-eating cars, for example, would stimulate industry to make cleaner engines or refine better gasoline, he said.

The panel's only representative from industry, Frank Dowd, president of Charlotte Pipe and Foundry Co., reported that his business has installed anti-pollution devices which are largely effective. The half-million dollar equipment pulls fly-ash and grease from thick foundry smoke. Dowd said the company bore the cost for this equipment without raising prices or cutting wages.

Mecklenburg County Commissioner Dr. James G. Martin said the county is looking for space to build landfill stations for garbage disposal. The problem, he said, is not in getting people to comply with landfill ordinances, but in finding places to put garbage dumps.The students were protesting the invasion of Cambodia and the massacre of students by National Guardsmen at Kent State University in Ohio. The demonstration was virtually unorganized, but began when a small group decided at lunchtime that some public protest was in order. About 70 students held a sit-in at the ROTC headquarters right before drill was supposed to start. ROTC cadre officers appeared to be nonplussed by the whole affair. They stepped over and around the bodies sprawled in the hallway, usually asking if everyone was comfortable. One student said that the reason students were demonstrating at the ROTC headquarters was to confront people with the fact that ROTC was the place where students learned to kill following orders from military superiors. There were chants of “Pull out of Indochina” and “Pull out of Ohio.” Someone brought along a kazoo, so they played and whistled the Marine Hymn and other patriotic songs. When drill started, the group marched to the drill field. About 30 students joined them along the way, bringing their number to about 100. Demonstrators often remarked that although there was no publicity for the demonstration, it drew 10 percent of the student body. Once at the drill field, the protestors did not break into the ranks of the ROTC troops but stood on a hill overlooking the field, shouting at individuals to leave the drill and join the demonstration. A quick headcount showed there were as many protesters as there were non-officer-rank students drilling. Tuesday’s ROTC drill was not a regular uniform drill, but an exercise in physical training. When the ROTC troops fell in at the football field, the demonstrators began to march around the track which circles the gridiron. When the protestors reached the far end of the field, cadre officers gave the order to fall out, and the ROTC troops filed out of the other end of the field, cutting short the drill. Although it is not general practice to lock the doors after drill, it was done because, Col. Foster said, “There was no need of having outsiders in the department due to the situation today.” The demonstrators took up positions at each of the four entrances to the ROTC offices but were refused entrance. There was one dramatic encounter when students tried to gain entry with Maj. Frederick Brigham, who had been locked out. One student held the door for Brigham and then asked to be admitted. He said, “No, this is a place of business,” and tried to block the doorway. The student holding the door asked if the officers thought they were “under siege.” Then the major reached for the door handle, jerked, and slammed the door shut in the students’ faces. Col. Foster later explained that ROTC troops would be using practice grenades that day, and he did not feel it wise to involve protestors in that.

By RICH WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Interpreting current social issues through science, Harvard Professor and Nobel Prize Winner George Wald in last Friday’s lecture called for a constant review of technology as well as increased student activism. Concerning contemporary politics, Wald said, “Policy should be made in the streets. Why is the smoke-filled room any better than a smoke-filled city? American people must express what they want. No charismatic figure is needed. We can formulate and deal with things ourselves. Know what you want. Say it loud. And keep on saying it. Violence is a symptom of despair. At Harvard last year there were four major confrontations. What is student violence? It is law and order that sends people to the hospital,” he said. Wald also noted that this is an election year, and that now is the time for students to go into action. He advocated students’ taking part in the various congressional and senatorial campaigns. “One thing students can do is ring doorbells,” he said. “After all, any man will leave his television if a pretty girl is at the door!”

According to Wald, the threat of nuclear warfare and the population explosion are the two most pressing problems of today. The Harvard Professor emphasized that no one can win a nuclear war. But when asked what his solution to this problem was, he said, “I’m afraid you’re going to have to find yourself another administration.” Wald noted that at present there are nuclear warheads equivalent to 15 tons of TNT for every man, woman, and child in the world. “I think that’s enough,” he replied. In relation to this idea, the Nobel Prize winner said he couldn't resist quoting Georgia Senator Richard Russell’s statement that if we have to get back to Adam and Eve, I want them to be Americans. Concerning the population problem, Wald said that man is the first living organism threatened by his own reproduction. “Most authorities expect a doubling of population and famine by the end of the century,” he said. Wald’s solution is to make contraceptives available free for every woman in the world. He also favored abortions, saying that “No woman should have to bear an unwanted child.” Establishing the relation between science and current social issues, Wald said, “Science attempts to understand all reality. One can gain knowledge from books, but wisdom only from things. That is what science is. It extracts wisdom from things.” Wald thus concluded that science is “altogether good,” but it is technology that should be under constant review. “Know all you can,” he said, “but do only those things which are socially useful.” Wald ended his speech by quoting Deuteronomy from which he extracted his speech title, “Therefore Choose Life.” “I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that I have set you before life and death, blessing and curse; therefore choose life that you and your descendants may live.”

Col. Foster kept the college administration informed of the events but did not ask the college to respond to protests, according to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. They were Southeast Asian expert Fred Gaige, religion professor David Kaylor, and a former executive assistant to Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, William Jackson. The three professors were joined by students who set up picket lines in front of the post office after they obtained a permit to parade from the town of Davidson. The permit gave them the right to have ten people marching at a time on the sidewalk in front of the post office, according to Peter Hobbie, who obtained the permit from the town. Gaige organized a group of students who took the telegram to Nixon door-to-door in the town of Davidson. They gathered 129 signatures there in about two hours and also received commitments from several black people to march in the picket lines with students Thursday and Friday. As of press time, some 700 signatures had been attached to the telegram, including that of College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., students, and townspeople. In a letter to the college community, Spencer said he is opposed to the invasion of Cambodia and appalled. (See CAMPUS, Page 4)

(Staff photo by Lyle) After students tried to lower it to half-mast, ROTC cadre secured ‘Old Glory’ from attack.