THE SCORER. 
By DON PARMAN 
Sports Editor 

For when the One Great Scorer comes 
To write against your name 
He marks—not that you won or lost— 
But how you played the game, 
—Grantland Rice 

To Play For Pay 

The trustees have come and gone. What was left behind has its most important implications for football and athletic programs in general at Davidson College. With the proposals of the Academy for Educational Development and the reports of the Spencer Commissions along with the committee work of the trustees themselves, it seems that more action could have been taken, but all that remains of their visit is the new football subsidization plan. 

At first sight, and perhaps at second sight, the new policy is one which Richard Nixon would have been proud of. There were two definitely opposed camps on the issue and the trustee resolution seems to have effectively met the demands of both groups. In the long run, however, I think that the trustees might see their decision in a new light. 

First of all, the new plan puts subsidized football squarely in the hands of the alumni. This year and next there is no doubt that the alumni will come through for Homer Smith and the football team. There is still the flush of success from last fall’s team and the challenge from the trustees to pull the funds in from the alumni for the 1971-1972 season. The challenge comes from the new system that the trustees have implemented. The alumni have, in effect, been told to put up the funds for the subsidized football program which they demanded when the Athletic Commission report came out last fall. 

What happens, however, when the Wildcats come across those lean years that all major football schools, let alone a newcomer to winning football like Davidson, suffer through? The football program has a guaranteed base of only the equivalent of 52 average grant-in-aid stipends. Quite conceivably the funds from the alumni after a poor season could drop, leaving funds to cover upperclass scholarships and none for freshman scholarships. 

If the trustees want a subsidized program, they should not leave that program to the hands of the alumni who can, quite realistically, expect a winner for their money. The alumni are paying for results. Of course, there are those alumni who are interested primarily in the value that the players get from participating in the sport. But will these men earmark their money for the football program rather than another of the many areas at Davidson from which the student can also derive valuable experience? 

The trustees have not really decided anything in my estimation. If they want to have subsidized football on the Davidson campus, they should expect the school to pay for it. They have saved the general fund the controversial $100,000 but the price was not worth it. 

Unbeaten Rader Leads Wrestlers To Two Wins 
By DICK DOWNEY 
Sports Writer 

The Davidson wrestling team, led by 190-pound junior Frank Rader, captured their second win in three meets last Friday as they defeated Furman 26-14. Rader is undefeated so far this year and is one of three team members who are. 

Coach Charlie Parker's team has two other undefeated members, they are 126-pound Rob Benton and 142-pound Bill Mosely. Benton and Mosely both won by falls in the meet last Friday. Jeff Dumansky, a 134-pound freshman, and Ron Williams, a 167-pound sophomore, also pinned their adversaries. Jack Jacobs, a 158-pound junior, notched a victory to round out the scoring. 

Regarding the match coming up at the Citadel tonight, Parker observed that the Citadel traditionally had a stronger team than Davidson, and that they have three starters back from last year’s team. Citadel has the 130-pound Southern Conference champion of the last two years, and so he...

Swim Season Shortened As Two Teams Cancel 
By TOM STEVENS 

Swimming coach Tom Stevens has watched his schedule drop from seven meets to five as one opponent cancelled and another is nowhere in sight. The swimmers' opener with Clemson was postponed two weeks ago due to unexpected snow which prevented the Clemson team from reaching Davidson. Stevens indicated that Clemson's schedule is so crowded that no possible date for a rematch was available. 

A match scheduled with the Citadel had to be cancelled because the Citadel's team disbanded due to lack of interest. This leaves only four schools in the Southern Conference, Davidson, East Carolina, William and Mary, and VMI, with swimming programs. Stevens added that the coming week now holds the bulk of the Davidson schedule. The swimmers meet VMI at Lexington, Va., on Monday, then return home for a meet with Emory on Tuesday and a Thursday encounter at William and Mary. 

VMI features one of the top freestyle sprinters in the Southern Conference, Bob Costigan, as well as defending conference 100-yard breaststroke champion Rory Frey. Nine lettermen return from the team which topped Davidson 54-50 at Davidson last season. The William and Mary meet is on Friday the thirteenth but the Indians should prove to be more bad luck than the date. Stevens described them as “loaded.” Along with East Carolina, the Indians are expected to dominate the Conference championship held March 5, 6, and 7. 

The Wildcats have won their only meet so far, walloping J. S. Smith by a 66-36 count. Stevens, however, was not satisfied with the team’s times. “With a few exceptions the times weren't very good. Mac Davis had a good time in the 50-yard freestyle and Jim Winn had a good time in the 200-yard individual medley. Jim Newton had an excellent time in the 100-yard freestyle for this early in the year."

(Staff photo by Lyle)

WHY PLAY WAY UP THERE 
Jerry Kroll hits on a jump shot. 

Pikas Stop Delts For First 
By HOWARD BOYD 
Sports Writer 

By virtue of a 69-59 victory over the previously undefeated Delts, the Pikas have moved into undisputed possession of first place in intramural basketball. In a week which saw eight games postponed, the Pikas upped their unbeaten string to eight, and left the rest of the league hoping for an upset. 

Joe Lasinger paced a third-quarter surge and clutch free-throwing staved off the Delt comeback. In other games since the last report, the Pikas ripped the SAE's 76-56 as four players hit double figures, and set a short-lived league scoring record with a 105-40 pasting of the Pi Kapps. Floyd Strand led the scoring with 28 points as all thirteen Pikas tallied. 

Mark Affeldt fired in thirty points to pace the big win over the Delts in a game which was close for a half before the winners broke it open in the final minutes. The Pikas grabbed an early lead, and after the Delts took command in the second quarter, spurted near the end of the half for a 33-31 lead at the break. Affeldt and Early hit 26 and John McCammon 25. The halftime score was a horrendous 62-19. 

The Machis, behind the league-leading scorer, Mike Dickens (25.0 ppg.), won twice to move into third place with a 4-4 mark. Dickens had 20 in a 67-37 trouncing of the Pi Kapps, and then dropped in 29 as the locals romped past the...Should Taus 75-50 provide a major headache for the Kappa Sigs and the ‘Cats, the Gamms follow in a tie for fourth with 4-2 records. Davidson's next match after tonight comes as they take on a tough VMI team. The Sigs ripped the disappointing Indies 56-43 behind Bill Barnhill and Mike Kelly with 17 and 15 points respectively, and then edged the SAE's 61-55 with Barnhill tossing in 19 markers with Bob Niebauer adding 18. Nick Livengood paced the losers with 19. The Fijis whipped the Baker 59-48, as Charlie Parks tallied 23 points, and then Snipes stuffed in 20 to win over the Betas (sans Snipes) spearheading a 71-61 victory over the Taus. With the nets at a bomb rate of 43, Steve Hayes is in seventh place, averaging 22.4 points per outing. Hayes gunned in 24 in the loss to the Delts, and hit for 26 as the Nus edged by the Spes 44-40, before tallying 24 more against the Indies in a 64-41 upset win shocker.

Indie “B” star John Baker's team lost to the Betas and the KA’s 53-51 behind Baker’s 21, holding Lou Williams to only 12, and defeated the official team 50-39 with Henry Marrow pitching in 14. Steve Saunders matched the game-high with 22 points, but the Indies’ 54-52 win won't count, as Baker and Culbertson scored 11 points respectively for the losers.

According to Parker, VMI beat Furman much worse than Davidson did. To make matters worse, D.C. meets VMI on February 13, which happens to fall on Friday this month. The Wildcats have three matches left other than the previously mentioned, and then comes the Southern Conference Tournament, which is to be held on March 6 and 7 at William and Mary. Coach Parker noted that his team this year is the youngest he has ever coached, but that the group had as much potential as any he had ever seen. Wrestling fans expect spectacular performances this year, but next year, the Wildcats should field one of their best teams in recent years.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN - FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N.C.

Coach Howie Shannon’s squad dropped four of their next five games but have since brought their record to 7-9. Two of VPI's wins came over William and Mary and Richmond. The Gobblers are expected to start three sophomores and two juniors against Davidson. Junior guard Lloyd King has led their scoring with a 17.6 average. King's running mate at guard will be sophomore Bill McNear (10.8), and at center, another sophomore, Charlie Lipscomb, who is the team's top rebounder with a 10.5 mark and is scoring at a 12.3 clip. Probable starters at the forwards will be Tom Trice and Wayne Lockett.

Against South Carolina, the Gobblers chose to run with the ball instead of deploying a slow-down game plan, which has frequently been used against the Gamecocks. It will be interesting to see if VPI resorts to the same game plan.

Wednesday night's contest has been built up into the biggest game of the season. After losing to Tennessee, South Carolina has gone undefeated and is presently ranked second in the AP and UPI polls. The starting players, John Roche, Bobby Cremins, Tom Owens, Tom Riker, and John Ribock, have become household names throughout the South. The Gamecocks have two outstanding reserves in Bob Carver and Rick Aydlett. Roche has consistently been worth twenty points per outing and was last year’s MVP in the ACC. Owens currently leads the ACC in rebounding.

Tuesday night against William and Mary, Davidson eased their way to a 93-87 victory. The game was marred by poor ball handling as each team committed 20 turnovers. Neither team took a substantial lead in the first half as Davidson took a 43-39 lead into the dressing room. Jerry Kroll sparked the team with three quick jump shots and a layup to put the Wildcats out to an early second-half lead. It wasn't until the half that William and Mary scored to bring the score to 58-41. Davidson stretched their margin to 18 points with 11:59 remaining, but the Indians went right to work on the lead. At 3:47, William and Mary had erased the deficit to four. Eight charity tosses in the final minute of play ensured the Wildcats’ conference win.

Smith Is Satisfied
“I’m very pleased with the decision of the trustees.” That was the first response from Davidson head football coach Homer Smith to the trustee resolution on subsidized football. Smith indicated that the recruiting program has not lost any ground and that he expected the trustee decision to more than offset the initial reaction to the Spencer Commission report on athletes. He pointed specifically to the unanimous vote for the resolution as an indication of the support of the school for the present football program.

Bryan Adrian and Kroll finished the game with 24 points each to share top scoring honors, with Bob Sherwood and Mike Maloy registering 18 and 16 respectively, while Tom Jasper (21) and Harry Kent (22) paced the Indians. The Wildcats overpowered William and Mary on the boards 47-22.

As expected, the Wake Forest game was a battle between Mike Maloy and Charlie Davis. Unexpectedly, the Wildcats were upset, losing 74-73, as Dan Ackley completed a three-point play with 17 seconds left. Davidson had the chance to win in the closing seconds, but a slippery floor brought Bryan Adrian down as he was driving the baseline. The Wildcats plummeted with him as he fell, dropping in the polls from 11th to 16th.

Tracksters Skip Indoor Inaugural
While other track teams ran at the VMI Indoor Relay, the Davidson Wildcats stayed at home because “We just weren’t ready for that stiff of competition.” Track coach Heath Whittle made that comment as his team prepares for the two remaining events on the indoor track calendar, including the Big 7 Meet to be held in Chapel Hill on February 21. Whittle indicated that the team is working hard to get ready and singled out several individuals as looking strong in the early practice sessions. “John Puckett has looked unusually good this spring in the 600-yard run,” said Whittle. He also singled out triple jumper Tom Rogers, shot putters Bill Garrett, Leonard Baugham, and Sandy Carnegie, and distance men Howard Boyd, Chris Sikes, Stagg Newman, and James Puckett. Other schools participating in the Big 7 Meet are Duke, UNC, N.C. State, Wake Forest, East Carolina, and North Carolina College.

Some office jobs are more interesting than others. In the old days, if a man wanted to be an executive and craved adventure too, he could skipper a clipper ship. Today, the clippers are gone, but the supersonics are here. And swashbuckling executives still get their chance. If you'd like to mull or roll at 1,400 mph, try for Officer Training School after you graduate from college. Also, remember the nice idea of yourself, an Air Force pilot, captain of all you command, getting to visit foreign ports like the clipper captain of yore. An Air Force officer's life is a great life! Why just be skipper of a desk? That's maybe a million bucks worth of plane. And when you fly it, the responsibility's all yours.

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
Box A, Dept. SCN 72
Randolph Air Force Base, Texas 78148

NAME
COLLEGE
GRADUATION DATE
ADDRESS

I UNDERSTAND THERE IS NO OBLIGATION.