Page Four April 24, 1970

Up’n’Coming:

Friday, April 24
2:30 p.m. Tennis with Emory Here
8:00 p.m. Movie Morrison Room "Barefoot in the Park"
10:00 p.m. Union Coffee House Union Bar Robin Williams

Saturday, April 25
8:00 a.m. Graduate Record Chambers Basement Examinations
2:00 p.m. Tennis with Presbyterian College Clinton, S.C.
3:00 p.m. Baseball with Richmond Richmond, Va.
10:00 p.m. Union Coffee House Union Bar Robin Williams

Monday, April 27
1:00 p.m. Golf: Southern Pines Southern Conference Tournament
3:00 p.m. Baseball with V.M.I. Lexington, Va.
3:00 p.m. Track with W. Carolina Richardson Stadium
7:30 p.m. Hungry d Morrison Room Mara Loves
10:00 p.m. Open Meeting Green Room Curriculum Requirements

Tuesday, April 28
1:00 p.m. Golf: Southern Pines Southern Conference Tournament
2:30 p.m. Tennis with Appalachian State Here
7:30 p.m. Hungry d Morrison Room Mara Loves
8:00 p.m. Fine Film Love Auditorium "All the King’s Men"

Wednesday, April 29
1:30 p.m. Baseball with the Citadel Here
7:30 p.m. Hungry d Morrison Room Mara Loves

Thursday, April 30
All day Tennis: Southern Conference Match Here
7:30 p.m. "The Householder" Perkins Auditorium
7:30 p.m. Hungry d Morrison Room Mara Loves
10:00 p.m. Stammtish Snack Bar

Friday, May 1
All day Tennis: Southern Conference Match Here
2:00 p.m. Track: Fort Eustis, Va. Southern Conference Meet
2:00 p.m. Lecture Dr. George Wald, Love Auditorium Nobel Prize Winner
7:30 p.m. Hungry d Morrison Room Mara Loves

Saturday, May 2
All day Tennis: Southern Conference Match Here
1:30 p.m. Baseball with E.C.U. Here
2:00 p.m. Track: Fort Eustis, Va. Southern Conference
7:30 p.m. Hungry d Morrison Room Mara Loves

Judge Looks To Rebellion Innovators Advocate Change At Davidson

Small audiences were one of the hallmarks of the symposium on Current Trends in American Education sponsored last week by
the SGA, the YMCA, and the Free University. But there was no scarcity of ideas as the speakers left behind
them a wealth of suggestions for the radical change and dramatic improvement of Davidson's academic system.

First to speak was John Holt, currently a consultant with the Fayerweather Street School in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Having been called
by Time Magazine American education's “damning iconoclast,” Holt rapidly set an iconoclastic mood for the rest of the symposium. Holt
began by asserting that the American system's tendency to grade and classify the students is completely divergent with the aim
of educating the students. The priorities of learning become confused with the priorities of achieving graded success.

Another problem with our educational system, Holt said, is that it trains our students to do something often before they
know what they want to do. Instead, we should stop looking upon learning as a sort of material exchange (e.g.,
learning for dollars) and start seeing it as a lifetime endeavor not linked to any formal institution.

Dr. Edgar Whan followed on Tuesday night with suggestions he felt were of specific value for Davidson. Most of them
were taken from his work with the serious college and advanced study programs at Ohio University. Whan’s main emphasis was
on positive programs for the student. In keeping with this positive attitude, Whan described a system for the Ohio freshmen
which drops “D” and “F” grades from the transcripts. Immediately, Whan asserted, transcripts become less of a hierarchy of struggle
and more of a record of achievement. This same emphasis on what the individual can achieve was found throughout Whan's
ideas. The colleges, he said, have become too much like farm clubs for the big leagues, i.e., businesses and graduate
schools. They should instead give real personal opportunities for advancement in learning to those “beautiful people” who want it. And
in that group, he hoped he could place over half of the Davidson student body.

Among specific programs, Whan listed work-study programs and the popularization of exchanges with large universities. Of particular interest were the
work programs in which Whan suggested that the institutions give breaks to the students doing socially useful work. He also
recommended a plan in which the students pick one Wednesday a month on which they...

Led By Nonviolent Youth

A REVIEW By STEVE CROSS COPY EDITOR

My first reaction after reading Associate Justice William O. Douglas's controversial new book “Point of Rebellion” is one of mild
disgust at the faction in the House of Representatives headed by Rep. Gerald Ford (R-Mich.) which wants to have him
impeached. The charge is that “Point of Rebellion” advocates revolution. It certainly does, but not revolution in any form that
the Weathermen would recognize. There is not one word in the book which condones violence as a tactic of revolution
in America. True, Justice Douglas does quote Dom Helder Camara, Archbishop of Recife in Brazil, as saying, “I respect the
option of violence” as a method of throwing out the landed aristocrats of Brazil. But can an American judge be
impeached for encouraging a revolution in another country? If so, I would like to see the law.

The revolution which Justice Douglas advocates is neither violent nor illegal. He says flatly that “violence is not protected by
the Constitution,” but that to many young people it looks “inviting, and seems to the discontented to be the only
effective method of protest.” Douglas documents in considerable detail the list of the ills which have plagued the people of
this country. Among these are pollution, the entrenched vested interests of the military machine, the meddlesome questionnaires which applicants for
jobs must fill out, and the unresponsiveness of regulatory agencies entrusted with our natural resources. For Douglas, these are all
areas where revolutionary changes need to be made.

Douglas looks upon youth despoiling the earth and filling people with goodies merely to make money. “The search of the
youth today is for ways and means to make the machine—and the vast bureaucracy of the corporation state and of
the government that runs that machine—the servant of man. That is the revolution that is coming.” But since people today
still “hold the residual powers of government,” Douglas feels that another violent rebellion is unnecessary. He hopes for “an explosive
revolution of political regeneration” instead. Whether an armed revolution will break out “depends on how wise the Establishment is.”

This book is not without its faults. Much of the statistical data which Douglas cites in his catalogue of ills
is familiar, but some of it is not, and some items, like “For the poor, interest rates have been known
to rise to 1000 percent a year,” need footnoting. There are also some patches of flabby prose that try the
reader’s patience and waste Douglas’ words. All too often Douglas, after stating the problem in detail, asks a rhetorical question
to which the answer is obvious, and then answers it for us anyway. He hopes for a peaceful revolution at
the ballot box and places his faith in a strict constitutionalist interpretation of the Bill of Rights. That is his
only crime.

The impeachment movement against Judge Douglas is unlikely to get anywhere. The 51 senators who voted against Carswell are unlikely
to vote for Douglas’s impeachment. But any self-seeking “Establishment” which would attempt to remove him from court for his political
views will only succeed in vindicating the charges Douglas makes in “Point of Rebellion,” and in bringing civil insurrection one
step closer.

ROTC Sponsors Drive For Blood

The second semiannual Davidson Community Blood Drive will be held next Monday and Tuesday. All blood collected will be for
civilian use only. The drive will be held in Johnston Gymnasium from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday and Tuesday.
It will be sponsored jointly by the American Red Cross and the Davidson ROTC unit. According to Sam Darby, the
faculty and administration of the college community benefit from the drive, since they and their families receive free blood when...Discuss
topics of interest with their professors. Similarly, students could elect a number of faculty every year who would be allowed
an open course each term in which they could teach anything they wanted. In both of these plans, it is
hoped that the professors picked by the students and faculty would be ones outside the professor's major field of learning
so that he and the students could learn the material together. Such a situation would place much greater emphasis on
student initiative than at present.

Whan also mentioned the Cutler program at Ohio, which did not base entrance requirements on any grades. In it, a
person was free from all graduation requirements but the ones he set for himself. Whan's emphasis on all proposals is
that they require little curricular upheaval and very little money to implement. Administrators are denied a budget cop-out when considering
the programs. The changes can be made within the system and dramatically emphasize the role of the teacher as a
resource for the student and the role of the student as a person who is really trying to learn.

The third speaker was Dr. William C. Archie, Director of the Mary Reynolds Babcock Foundation, who again turned to student-faculty-administration
hangups. He reemphasized the role of the student as one trying to learn, the sole purpose of the college being
to help him in that task.

Closing the program was Michael Vozick, a Dwight Hall Fellow at Yale and a member of Transition Associates, a learning
collaborative. Vozick’s talk was an attempt to create in his discussion group a sense of community. This sense is, according
to Vozick, vital to real educational dialogue. It is an attitude he wanted the members of his discussion group to
carry with them to the rest of Davidson.

A PENSIVE SCHOLAR (Staff photo by Davidson) Louis D. Rubin lectured Monday on the language of black poetry.

Black Poetry Now Able To Assert Black Identity

Louis D. Rubin, professor of Southern literature at the University of North Carolina, told Davidson and Johnson C. Smith students
Monday afternoon that black literature is now at a stage where it can move beyond social protest to an assertion
of black identity. Rubin talked about the language of black poetry and how the white public's expectations divorced black poets
from their subject matter: what it is like to be black in America.

He noted that early Twentieth Century black poets were expected to write dialect poetry about homely, watermelon-loving, church-going black folk—a
caricature that prevented the poet from dealing with the realities of blacks’ experience in “Jim Crow” America. Breaking out of
this straight-jacket was, Rubin said, an important task for black poets. “There could be nothing of black pride and rage
in a poem,” said Rubin, “if the language is to be that of a philosophizing uncle.” The dialect writings about
stereotypes led to a “folksy skepticism” in black minds, Rubin said, and it could not touch the “biting cynicism” appropriate
to political betrayal and the bitterness of poverty.

Rubin talked primarily about the poetry of two early Twentieth Century blacks, Paul Dunbar and James Weldon Johnson. Johnson was
typical of the poet who had to write in the customary dialect, crooning style. But in Dunbar, there was a
movement from dialect to ballad and language more suited to the black folk tradition. The literary discovery of the black
folk tradition was what enabled black poetry to move from stereotype to protest, according to Rubin. The black folk tradition,
revivalism, could deal with black people's emotions without using the language of white genteel abstractions. After Dunbar, the goal of
black poets was, said Rubin, to unite social protest with artistic craftsmanship in a poetry “whereby the poet could render
the subtleties and exigencies of the blacks’ experience in America.”

Now, black poets can look to symbols within their culture and folkways instead of from outside it in order to
write about their racial experience. Black poems’ language is, Rubin said, “sensuous” and “steeped in the earth.” Its potential is
to go beyond stereotype, beyond protest, and toward assertion of identity.

Librarian Retires After Ten Years

Miss Carrie Brittain, Circulation Librarian, has decided to retire because, “There are so many things I would like to do
now that the time has come.” Miss Brittain observed that “the library has grown so much since I came here;
just the periodical circulation has grown from 249 subscriptions to over 1500.” This is only one of many areas of
improvement Miss Brittain has seen. She has enjoyed her tenure at the college library because “the young men here are
so alive and full of varied interests. Working in the library at Davidson has also been rewarding because of my
meeting all those fine young men.”

A native of North Carolina, she received her A.B. degree in English and History at the University of North Carolina.
She then attended the Presbyterian School of Religious Education in Richmond for a time. She received her B.S. degree in
Library Science from the University of North Carolina, and her M.A. in English from West Virginia University. She also studied
for a time at Columbia University.

Miss Brittain’s first assignment as a librarian was at Davis and Elkins College in West Virginia; she served from 1942
to 1959 and came to Davidson in 1960. She has served as Treasurer of the West Virginia Library Association and
as Secretary of the Association of Librarians in Presbyterian Colleges and Seminaries. She is also active in the activities of
the Presbyterian Church. Miss Brittain belongs to the Daughters of the American Revolution, the Huguenot Society, the National Society of
Magna Charta Dames, and the Daughters of Colonial Wars.

Miss Brittain’s favorite quotation is from the Psalms: “This is the day the Lord has wrought. Let us rejoice and
be glad in it.” She also likes what West Virginia Senator Jennings Randolph once said: “I shall pass this way
but once. Any good that I can do let me not defer it nor neglect it for I shall not
pass this way again.”

Miss Brittain is active in the Women of the Church and the Bible School of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, for
which she spends much of her time preparing lessons. She has also served on several Presbyterial Boards and Synodal Boards.

CRC (Continued From Page 1)

Several students had tried to drop out of school in order to terminate their legal obligation to the ROTC program
while still doing coursework at another school. CRC member T. A. Williams told this reporter that no student had given
getting out of ROTC as a reason for leaving school to the CRC. Spokesmen for the Ad Hoc committee denied
this.

Other points in the petition involved the reorganization of the admissions office and student representation on the CRC.

THURSDAY, APRIL 30

Shows: 2:00-5:15-8:30
Capri Theatre
3500 E. Independence Blvd.
Charlotte, N.C.
Technicolor

All seats $3.00
RESTRICTED
Under 17 requires accompanying Parent or Adult Guardian

Be there, on stage! In person!
Fashion show and live band
Woodstock
The Shrude M. F. Holdin Co.
8:15 p.m. Thursday evening
One show only

Starring Joan Baez, Joe Cocker, Country Joe & the Fish, Crosby, Stills & Nash, Arlo Guthrie, Richie Havens, Jimi Hendrix,
Santana, John Sebastian, Sha-Na-Na, Sly & the Family Stone, Ten Years After, The Who, and 400,000 other beautiful people.
