= Up 'n' Coming

Friday, April 17
1 p.m. Golf, N.C. State
Charlotte Country Club
2:30 p.m. Tennis with E.C.U.
Greenville, N.C.

Saturday, April 18
12:30 p.m. Track Here
2 p.m. Tennis with N.C. State
Raleigh
2 p.m. Baseball Here
with William and Mary

Sunday, April 19
10 p.m. Open Meeting
Ad Hoc Committee for Protection of Students

Monday, April 20
Morrison Room
1 p.m. Golf, Wake Forest
Charlotte Country Club
2:30 p.m. Tennis with Duke Here
3 p.m. Baseball Here with George Washington
3:30 p.m. Piedmont Lecture: Union Lounge
Dr. Louis B. Rubin “The Negro in Southern Literature”
7:30 p.m. French Film
Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Union Coffee House
Robin Williams

Tuesday, April 21
p.m. Track with Furman
7:30 p.m. “A Journey to the Himalayas”
8 p.m. Otts Lecturer:
Dr. Colin W. Williams
Union Coffee House
Robin Williams

Wednesday, April 22
Union Bar
Greenville, S.C.
7 p.m. Choral Room
Hodson Hall
10 p.m. Union Bar
10 a.m. Otts Lecturer:
Morrison Room
Dr. Colin W. Williams
2:30 p.m. Tennis with Furman Here
3 p.m. Baseball with E.C.U.
Greenville, N.C.
10 p.m. Union Coffee House
Union Bar
Robin Williams

Thursday, April 23
10 a.m. Stammtisch
Wildcat Room
10 a.m. Otts Lecturer:
Morrison Room
Dr. Colin W. Williams
8:03 p.m. Movie
Morrison Room
“Barefoot in the Park”
10 p.m. Union Coffee House
Union Bar
Robin Williams

Friday, April 24
2:30 p.m. Tennis with Emory Here
8:03 p.m. Movie
Morrison Room
“Barefoot in the Park”
10 p.m. Union Coffee House
Union Bar
Robin Williams

Saturday, April 25
Graduate Record Examinations
2 p.m. Tennis
Clinton, S.C.
with Presbyterian College
3 p.m. Baseball with Richmond
Richmond
10 p.m. Union Coffee House
Union Bar
Robin Williams

April 17, 1970

Phi Beta Kappa To Initiate 17 Members

Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, has selected 13 seniors and four juniors for membership in its annual spring
selection. All new members will be initiated next Wednesday, and following the ceremonies Dr. John M. Bevan will deliver the
annual oration to the fraternity. Bevan was recently selected as Davidson's vice president for academic affairs.

Seniors selected to Phi Beta Kappa are:
Hugh Alan Baskin, a French major from Brighton, Colorado. Baskin has participated in the Male Chorus and last year was
on the Junior Year Abroad (JYA) program in France.
William Edmund Bowman Jr., a pre-med major from Colfax, N.C., also was on the JYA program in France. Bowman's other
activities include membership in Gamma Sigma Epsilon (GSE) chemistry honorary and work on the Freshman Council and as an athletic
trainer.
Stewart Wright Caughman is an English major from Columbia, S.C. In addition to going to France on the JYA program,
Caughman is in advanced ROTC and has served on the IMAC.
An economics major from Concord, Daniel Branson Coltrane is in the Omicron Delta Epsilon (ODE) economics honorary.

(Continued From Page One)
to 24-hour open dorms at a student-faculty hearing Wednesday and Thursday. Prospects for extensive restructuring of dormitories appear dim in
the foreseeable future. President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said that the library had priority and that incoming funds would be
devoted to this project.

W.G. Workman, a member of the Student Life Committee, presented what he termed a “minority report” of objections that had
caused him to vote with three other SLC members against recommending the open dorms proposal to the faculty. The college
needs greater continuity in rules and regulations than can be provided by a majority of students voting on any given
matter, Workman said. He deplored the increasing student sentiment favoring a separation between residents and academics and the subsequent loss
of community.

Philosophy Professor George L. Abernethy charged that students were considering the matter in a superficial way which failed to consider
the legal angle. “The RHC has failed to demonstrate that it is capable of the responsibility of self-government,” he said.
Abernethy contended that faculty rejection of the request would force students to think more deeply about its consequences. He challenged
students to seek solutions to the practical problems caused by the change. Several professors said that sexual morality was at
the base of the decision. But one professor said he thought the students had improved conditions at all by having
24-hour open dorms under present dormitory arrangements.

Review Of Davidson’s Courts (Continued From Page One)
Vernon: This (adversary system) is anti-community.
Bliss: That is a different game which belongs to a different community ... than the college community.
Vernon: All this leads back to the problem of not having a defined legal system, of course this is just
the first year of this court system, but I think we would have been helped by (having a written out
procedure). This would help anyone involved in the courts and those not involved.
McLean: After these recent controversial events, do you believe Davidson can still have an efficient “community court” system?
Bliss: I think we can.
Baker: There is a great number of people who feel that the defendant should have taken the tack he started
out on ... determined to sue the college. He didn’t present any defense the first time; it looked like it
would go straight through every appeal body up through the trustees and then it would come in a civil case.
Certainly this is not an attitude of community.
Roberts: If you're going to an adversary court system, you simply can’t have a court of amateurs. You have to
have trained legal people. I don’t know of any one member of the Regulations Court who feels competent to even
consider that sort of case.
Bliss: I suppose that if we are going from one to another, that we are going to suffer for some
time from the conflicting demands of the adversary system. I think that the college community system can work. I think
its chances of working very effectively would be greatly enhanced if this kind of spelling out of responsibilities came about.
Vernon: There’s a problem in drug cases of evidence, also what can be used by the defendant in the trial
(in the way of methods of active or passive defense).
Roberts: (Traditionally colleges have not been required to come up with hard evidence of the nature required in civil court.)
Baker: I don’t think the student reaction was as intense against the actual drug trial as it was in the
events which happened afterwards. The morale in the college court system hit its lowest point with the course of the
appeal, I mean the retrial on the drug thing, coupled with this honor charge, one on top of the other.
I think the combination of events is what lowered the students’ morale or the respect for the courts.

SLC Ponders Big Issues Despite Students’ Disinterest
AN ANALYSIS By TOM VERNON Associate Editor
The Student Life Committee is currently probing into some of Davidson's most pressing problems, apparently without the interest of the
many students concerned. Their current work ranges from the Code of Responsibility to the fraternity court, and their task is
considerable. By June they must submit reports on both topics to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. These reports will
be based on the committee’s study of and work on the Freshman Council and as an athletic trainer.Addition, he is
a Dana Scholar. Dorm Policy: the stronger argument in this case, and he said professors who claim premarital sex is
inherently evil ought to be made to show why. Students roundly applauded the director of college housing when she said
she “didn't want to enforce” limited visitation hours. “We've had enough unenforceable rules around this place,” she said, “Let’s not
make any more.” and has worked on the 1967 Inklings and THE DAVIDSONIAN. A member of Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-med
honorary, Arthur Jackson Crumbley III is from Atlanta. Crumbley also belongs to GSE and Scabbard and Blade. Marshall McClanahan Feaster
III studied under the JYA program in Germany. Feaster is a pre-med major from Brevard, N.C. Thomas Monroe Hart studied
at the University of East Anglia during his junior year. Hart is an English major from Collinsville, Conn. and a
member of Phi Eta Sigma freshman scholastic honorary. A member of the JYA program in Germany, Henry McCager Hobby is
a pre-med major from Washington, Ga. Hobby is a Dana Scholar, a member of GSE, and has been active in
the Male Chorus and debating. Having studied in France on the JYA program, Joseph Crosby Jones Jr. is a French
major from Wilkesboro, N.C. In 1968 he placed third in the Vereen Bell creative writing competition. George Michael Moskos is
a French major from Greenville, S.C. He spent his junior year in France. John Lawrence Puckett, who studied JYA in
Germany, is from Davidson. He is a German major and is in the Delta Phi Alpha German honorary. Puckett is
also active on the track team. One of Davidson's leaders in education and social reform is Edward Cary Tucker. He
is a math major from Arlington Co., Virginia. Daniel Castile Vinson from Laurel Hill, N.C. studied as a JYA student
in Germany. He is a pre-med major, a Dana Scholar, and a member of GSE and the Wind Ensemble. Juniors
elected to Beta Kappa are: Robert Shields, an economics major from Eden, N.C. He is in Phi Eta Sigma, the
Wind Ensemble, and the Pep Band. A chemistry major, he has been active in student government. Thomas Ransom Opie, who
hails from Staunton, Va. He has been in Phi Eta Sigma, the Conservative Club, and the Young Republicans, and he
served as vice president of the SGA in 1969-1970. Editor-in-Chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN Edwin Huss Shoaf Jr. is a pre-med
major from Charlotte. He is also a member of the GSE Chemistry honorary and is a Dana Scholar. Thomas James
Trussell Jr. is a math major from Columbus, Ga. He is a Richardson Fellow, a Hall Counselor, a member of
Phi Eta Sigma, and a McConnell Scholar.

Trustee Investigation (Continued From Page One)
they are necessary. The trustees said, in turn, that a number of the objections being raised against the Code were
the result of faculty-student activity to begin with. One trustee noted that the prohibitions related to the Code were set
out by students, not the trustees. Harley Branch, chairman of the committee, followed up this point, noting that the students
who had originally presented the Code to the trustees had argued that it would promote student self-enforcement of rules, specifically
those on drinking, which were being ineffectively enforced at the time. Branch went on to maintain that the most direct
method of rules change had been in existence when the trustees had full responsibility in that area. As authority issues
apathy, social life this week or the full board at its meeting Friday, April 24. “The basic problem,” Opie said,
“has been a lack of direction and coordination within the higher administrative levels. Perhaps they have not had the willingness
or the foresight to give the college direction in this matter.” Opie added, “There appears to have been a constant
effort on the part of the administration to concentrate authority and weaken various code agencies, and this effort has been
pretty successful.”

The committee has excerpts from the SLC report and the AED study. In addition, SLC has this year been studying
the Sigma Chi question and in the Social Patterns Commission's report. In light of this experience, the committee is inviting
proposals on the usage of any fraternity houses which might in the future become available. The Committee, composed of six
faculty and three students, has been meeting regularly since mid-February after receiving directives from Spencer to study the Code and
the social life. Usually sitting with the committee also are Mrs. Nichols and three former student members, Dick Allison, Peter
Hobbie, and Joe Kilpatrick.

Even considering the large workload, however, it seems to some students and faculty both within and without the committee that
work is progressing slowly. Indeed, Spencer originally requested reports to be due in mid-April. One member thought the delays were
due to two factors: first, the slim information given to faculty and students, procedures became more complicated. On the question
of open dorms, Branch said that the student proposal has not reached the trustees, having been defeated by the faculty.
With regard to a student's right to a personal moral code, Branch noted that, “Whatever you personally feel, there is
an institutional obligation here to support the laws of the state.” The students agreed that the College could not condone
disobedience to state law, but maintained that this did not mean that the College should search out violators. When asked
about the possibility of civil authorities on campus, especially with regard to drugs, a number of students said that this
was preferable to the present situation. “The situation is unacceptable,” according to Prestwich, a member of the Student Regulations Court.
“We just aren’t equipped to deal with things like drugs.” Prestwich also pointed out the need for specific rules to
guide court consideration of cases involving property.

Senate Seats To Be Filled
Elections have been tentatively scheduled on Apr. 30 to fill two student Senate vacancies. The Senate seats from center Belk
and west Belk were vacated by the transfers of sophomores Lawrence Wilkinson and Jody Turner. Three cheerleaders from each rising
class will be chosen in the same election. Filing deadline for applicants in both races is next Thursday, Apr. 23,
according to Elections Board chairman Allen Peterson. The election is scheduled for Thursday, Apr. 30.

We Want You To Join Our Church As An Ordained Minister And Have The Rank Of Doctor of Divinity
We are a non-structured faith, undenominational, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Our fast-growing church is actively seeking new ministers
who believe what we believe. All men are entitled to their own convictions; to seek truth their own way, whatever
it may be, no questions asked. As a minister of the church, you may:
1. Start your own church and apply for exemption from property and other taxes.
2. Perform marriages, baptisms, funerals, and all other ministerial functions.
3. Enjoy reduced rates from some modes of transportation, some theaters, stores, hotels, etc.
4. Seek draft exemption as one of our working missionaries. We will tell you how.
Enclose a free will donation for the Minister's credentials and license. We also issue Doctor of Divinity Degrees. We are
State Chartered and your ordination is recognized in all 50 states and most foreign countries.
FREE LIFE CHURCH
P.O. BOX 4039, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33072

unacceptable,” according to Prestwich, a member of the Student Regulations Court. “We just aren’t equipped to deal with things like
drugs.” Prestwich also pointed out the need for specific rules to guide court consideration of cases involving property.

Deliver Oration To Fraternity
ton, Va. He has been in Phi Eta Sigma, the Conservative Club, and the Young Republicans, and he served as
vice president of the SGA in 1969-1970. Editor-in-Chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN Edwin Huss Shoaf Jr. is a pre-med major from
Charlotte. He is also a member of the GSE Chemistry honorary and is a Dana Scholar. Thomas James Trussell Jr.
is a math major from Columbus, Ga. He is a Richardson Fellow, a Hall Counselor, a member of Phi Eta
Sigma, and a McConnell Scholar.

Duke Gets Coed Dorm
An experimental college to be started at Duke University this fall will include coeducational housing facilities. Planners say 54 men
and women students will occupy adjoining suites on two floors of the faculty apartment residence units on Duke's East campus.
“It is hoped that this environment will allow the men and women of the college the opportunity for mature interactions
rather than depending on the Saturday night date for their only opportunity to meet with the opposite sex,” they said.

PHONE 892-9308
Cashion Gulf Service
ALL BRANDS OF OIL
PICK-UP & DELIVERY SERVICE
P.O. Box 422
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Main St.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Come browse and see our fine spring and summer selections in clothing and accessories for campus and town.
BOTANY 500
HUNTER HAIG
FARAH
HAGGAR
IZOD
SERO
JANTZEN
VAN HEUSEN
LONDON FOG
BOSTONIANS
CONVERSE
GOLD CUP
DANBURY
SWANK
AMERICAN TOURISTER
LEVIS
JOCKEY
THE CHOICE OF CHAMPIONS
Izod’s Lacoste Knit in banded crew neck 100% cotton lisle from John Leck & Son
Only 6 miles North Mooresville
