‘Cat Cagers Ink Initial Prospect
By B. B. BARREL
Sports Writer

In an all-out effort to avoid the late recruiting start which cost the Wildcats so many basketball prospects last season, head coach Terry Holland announced the signing of this year's first prospect, Joel Frost.

Frost, a 6-9 pivotman, paced his Milford High team to the New Jersey state championship last season as they dropped only one of 23 games. Frost averaged 25.8 points per game and snared 18.7 rebounds. In the second half of the title contest, he exploded for 21 points to clinch the Milford win.

Bo Brickels and Neill McGeachy, Davidson assistant coaches, have nothing but words of praise for Frost. Brickels, who saw him perform last season on a scouting trip for Rice, said, “Right now I think that Joel could step into the lineup and take Mike Maloy's place. His mental attitude has slipped a bit this season, but he can do everything on the basketball court.” Brickels added, “I think that Joel could be the next all-American here at Davidson. He has that much potential.”

McGeachy pointed to Frost’s extreme agility and quickness for a man his size. “He has all the moves. I think that Joel could be the real big man that Davidson has been looking for."

Frost, who received offers from over 90 schools, including UNC, South Carolina, and UCLA, said that the school was what led him to choose Davidson. “I wanted to go somewhere I could be accepted as a student as well as an athlete. Davidson is a good school and everyone I met there was just great.”

Gil Thorp, Frost's high school mentor, was perhaps the key individual in Frost's decision to attend Davidson. Thorp said, “I've met all of the Davidson coaches and I have been very impressed with them and the program at Davidson. Joel is still trying to find himself and I encouraged him to look at Davidson as an institution as well as a basketball power. I just wanted him to find the right school.”

In an unexpected move, the NCAA has taken action against Davidson College for illegal recruiting practices. The college has been barred from any postseason competition for this season and next season as well. The suspension came out of an investigation of the recruiting practices of head swimming coach Tom Stevens. Stevens allegedly broke several of the NCAA statutes concerning relations between college coaches and high school athletes.

In announcing the decision of the NCAA, Vice-President-at-large Wilford H. Ketz pointed specifically to violations of sections nine, ten, and eleven of the article concerning recruiting in the NCAA bylaws. The rules govern the conduct of the college on a prospect's visits to the school. A prospect is limited to two paid on-campus and two off-campus visits by and to the prospect. A student visiting a campus must eat his meals on campus and live as a regular student, with students responsible for arranging his entertainment. Finally, a prospect may visit a school as often as he wants but NCAA rules severely limit the amount of money that the institution can spend on him at such visits.

Stevens, according to Ketz, has made up to seven paid visits to several prospects. In addition, when the students were on campus, Stevens reportedly paid for meals at the Wildcat Den and the Coffee Cup instead of making use of the school’s cafeteria resources. Stevens is also accused of arranging dates for the prospects at several of the nearby women's colleges and has organized other off-campus entertainment for the visitors.

The suspension will especially hurt the Wildcat basketball team which is barred from the NCAA tournament as part of the suspension. Coach Terry Holland said, “Of course it is a disappointment for the boys and me, too; but we'll just have to make the best of it.”

Football Builds For National Crown Bid

“Well, I've never thought that the NCAA has put and our football program. Now that we have been suspended, we might as well make hay while the sun shines.” That was the reaction of Davidson head football coach Homer Smith to the announcement that the NCAA had placed Davidson under a two-year suspension for illegal recruiting activities on the part of the swimming team.

“We can build up quite a program in two years with no restrictions,” Smith said. “The suspension was absolutely the last straw. Now we can go big time all the way.”

The suspension and a change in the NCAA rules have caused considerable changes in the football schedule for next season. Most of the conference schools refused to honor their commitments to play the Wildcats, but Smith and Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott have been able to line up replacements since the NCAA has made it possible for each team to schedule 11 regular season games. The Wildcats have contracted with six new teams to replace the conference schools.

REVISED 1970 GRID SCHEDULE
Sept. 26 Richmond Richmond, Va.
Oct. 17 Florida Charlotte
Oct. 24 Wofford Spartanburg, S. C.
Oct. 31 VPI Blacksburg, Va.
Nov. 7 Lafayette Davidson
Nov. 14 Ohio State Columbus, O.
Nov. 21 Baylor Davidson
Nov. 28 Toledo Davidson
Dec. 4 Presbyterian Davidson

Leading the list of newcomers are Florida at Charlotte, Virginia Tech at Blacksburg, Ohio State at Columbus, Ohio, and Baylor and Toledo at Davidson. “We feel that several of these teams can give us a very good game on any given Saturday,” Smith said. “A couple of them will serve as a very good indication as to just how far along we are in our drive for a national championship.”

Woody Hayes, Ohio State head coach, said of Davidson, “The game should be a real game for the crowd. I have nothing but the highest regard for the fine things that Homer has done down there with the limited resources available. I am very concerned about his ground game and I'm sure that my boys share this concern. I just hope we can move the ball against their defense.”

One unusual feature of the game is its designation as the Davidson Homecoming. This is particularly hard to understand since the game is being played at Ohio State. Scott and Union Director C. Shaw Smith defended the decision saying, “We're sure that we can have a much better time in Columbus with all the co-eds and night spots there.” Scott added, “We certainly didn't want to lose our homecoming on our home field, that could have been embarrassing.”

Smith, however, has been laying careful plans for the big games scheduled for next year. “Last year against some of the teams like Toledo and Vanderbilt, we found ourselves outmanned both on offense and defense. I vow that this will not happen this year.”

Taking advantage of the NCAA suspension handed to Davidson, Smith has retained seniors Gordon Slade, Mike Kelly, George Hannen, Whit Morrow, and Steve Butler. In addition to these Wildcat standouts, he has also actively recruited graduating seniors from other major college powers and has reportedly landed running backs Steve Owens and Bob Anderson to bolster the running game.

An NCAA spokesman said that the organization was very unhappy with the Davidson football situation but that the group could take no action since Davidson is already under suspension. Smith said that he expects the Board of Trustees to approve subsidized football at their meeting next month. Trustees have indicated that they will not only approve of subsidized football but that they are also willing to pay more if Smith can mold a national champion here at Davidson.

Upsets Muddy Play As IMAC Opens

The International Mafia Athletic Club opened up two new seasons this week and the early favorites were upset in both. In the pool action, the form chart was upset at the beginning as outgoing SGA president Peter Hobbie dumped heavily favored President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. Spencer said, “I was as surprised as President Nixon would have been if someone had hit the first ball back to him. But I have no excuses, Peter just played a fine game and deserved to win.” Hobbie termed the win the “high point of my athletic and political careers.”

After the ceremonial game between the two presidents, the pre-season picks followed Spencer's example and fell with amazing regularity. The top-rated ATO's were downed by the sixth-rated Pi Kapps while the Phi Delts and the SAE's were also ambushed. The Pi Kapps followed their initial victory with conquests of the Nus and the Pikas, to tie for first place with the Betas who stopped the Indies, the Gammas, and the SPE’s by wide margins. The two powerhouses meet next Thursday in a showdown for the top spot.

In action in the pool rather than on the pool table, the Sigs have virtually cinched their fourth straight championship in giant squid harpooning. Led by several outstanding sophomores, the Sigs polished off their first squid in new record time. In addition, the Sigs' top rivals, the Machis and the KA's, were both victims of early upsets.

There is still some question as to how the points for the Independent “B” team will be scored. Since neither of their divers returned from the pool, it has not yet been decided whether they get entry points or not. IMAC director Sterling Martin indicated that the points might be awarded to the squid for its excellent defensive work.

In other actions on the IMAC blotter, the IMAC all-star basketball team accepted a bid to the Southern Conference basketball tournament. Martin said, “We're very proud of our boys and we think they can go all the way.”

Massive Construction Set For Johnston Gymnasium

The “House that Cazzie Built” at Michigan will have a counterpart here at Davidson which may...Fittingly be called the “House that Lefty Built” according to plans released Thursday morning by Dr. Tom Scott, Davidson athletic director. Scott disclosed plans for a massive overhaul of Davidson's athletic facilities with major construction slated to begin next fall on both Johnston Gym and Richardson Field. The work on the Gym will be the most intensive ever attempted in the country according to the architects in charge, Blasel and Hollinsford of Chapel Hill. James T. Blasel said of the plans, “We're really looking forward to the project. Basically what we will be doing is enlarging the pool area and increasing the seating capacity for basketball games and other events held in the gym. This means that we are going to have to expand both upward and downward at the same time.” Blasel indicated that the Johnston Gym project will be the most ambitious undertaking of its type in the country, but is now quite workable due to advancements in plastic technology. Final plans for the gym include seating capacity for another 21,555 for basketball games which leads to a possibility of more home games on campus instead of Charlotte. Currently, however, no plans have been made for additional parking for the future fans. Robert Currie, Davidson College business manager, said that the parking at present is capable of sustaining the needs of the school. The gym is also to be renovated with considerable attention given to acoustics so that Johnston Gym rather than Love Auditorium can be used for the concerts on big weekends. The swimming complex will require the most construction work as current plans call for an entirely new pool on the site of the old one. The new pool will, however, be at a much lower level so that seating for home meets will be arranged on a sort of stadium basis, with seats rising on both sides of the pool. The new capacity of pool seating will be in the area of 900 according to the blueprints. Blasel indicated that the college has retained the option of requesting an underwater observation window. The purpose of the window would be for watching the technique of the varsity swimmers as well as serving as an excellent location for watching synchronized swimming.

While the work on the gymnasium complex will be more revolutionary, the work on Richardson Stadium may be more spectacular to the casual observer. Following the plans which the University of Toledo is using to convert their Glass Bowl stadium into a domed field, Davidson also plans to construct a domed complex. The domed stadium would be the first in the Southeastern region. Blasel and Hollinsford indicated that the Richardson dome would encompass approximately eight thousand more seats than the current 3500 capacity. Scott denied that Davidson has contracted to sponsor a post-season bowl game in the stadium, but admitted that since word of the project has leaked, several parties have contacted him. The stadium will also serve as one of the largest indoor track facilities in the world. Track Coach Sterling Martin and Heath Whittle are both looking ahead to its construction with eagerness. “It will give us some of the finest facilities we could have hoped for,” said Whittle. Martin added, “It will sure be a lot warmer to run in there than outside in the winter.” Football coach Homer Smith was also optimistic about the new facility's effect on the Davidson athletic program. “This stadium will be one of the finest in the country. I think it will fit in with the football program we're building here at Davidson. Several fine football schools who didn't want to schedule us before on a home and home basis because of the game which we would have played here, have gotten back in contact with me since the announcement.” Construction is scheduled to begin on the gymnasium this fall and work on the stadium in the spring of 1971. Quicklyme and Mortar of Charlotte is the chief contractor. The work on Johnston Gym is slated for completion in early 1972 while the Richardson work should be finished several months later. Funds from both the Duke Endowment and the Ford Foundation will be applied to the cost of the construction which was not revealed at the announcement but which has been estimated in excess of 1.5 million dollars.

Stevens was unavailable for comment on the suspension and on the alleged violations, but sources close to Stevens indicated that he intends to resign. Davidson Athletic Director Tom Scott termed the suspension “out of proportion to the offenses. I know Tom Stevens and I know that he would not do anything that was less than in total compliance with the spirit as well as the letter of the rules. He has done a tremendous job in building up the swimming program here at Davidson in the last couple of seasons and I want him to stay on.” President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. has notified the NCAA that the school will take care of the problem immediately. The Southern Conference members will meet tomorrow morning in Lexington, Virginia, to decide on Davidson's future participation as a member of the conference. Several schools, notably The Citadel and East Carolina, plan to submit a proposal to drop the Wildcats from future participation in the conference. Just last year Marshall was suspended from the Mid-American Conference after the NCAA disclosed recruiting violations at the West Virginia school.

Driesell Confirms Accepts Davidson By GRANT RICE Sports Writer Athletic Director Tom Driesell announced today that University of Maryland Head Basketball Coach Lefty Driesell will return to Davidson next year as an assistant coach in the Wildcat coaching ranks. Driesell left Davidson last spring to become the coach of the Terrapin squad, but after some negotiations with Scott and Maryland officials, has decided to return to Davidson as an assistant to Head Coach Terry Holland. The vociferous coach who gained national recognition for raising Davidson basketball team from the joke books to the Top Ten, had recently expressed displeasure with the Maryland system. “Shucks. It’s not that they're against basketball at Maryland,” Driesell said. “Actually it’s just the opposite. They expect too much out of them Turtles.” “Besides,” Driesell added, “up there I'm recruiting against all kinds of congressmen and fancy people; I want to come back here where I can compete against people like (Duke coach) Bucky Waters, (Carolina coach) Dean Smith and (referee) Otis Allmond.” Expressing an extreme fondness for Davidson, Driesell noted, “It will be good to get back to my old stomping grounds.” Holland, the first athlete recruited by Driesell, was asked about the problems that may arise from having his former coach under his wing, but seemed unworried about any problems. Rather philosophically, Holland commented, “If it hadn't been for Lefty, I wouldn't be here today.” “He's a great recruiter and he'll add a lot of color to the coaching staff,” Holland said. “I'm pleased that he has made the decision to return.” He noted that the recent signing of high-school All-American Joel Frost was aided by Driesell’s indication that he was returning. In conclusion, Holland noted, “It'll be just like old times.”

The most successful team in Davidson football history impressed the pro football scouts Tuesday as pro football teams conducted their annual draft of college talent. Gordon Slade went second in the draft to the New York Jets. Receivers Mike Kelly and George Hannen were the first and second picks of the Dallas Cowboys, who are desperate for receivers. Ed Terry and Steve Butler were both picked to fill strange roles. The Steelers dubbed Terry as a defensive lineman while Cleveland selected Butler as a safety.

HOW TO GET A DOCTOR OF DIVINITY DEGREE Doctor of Divinity degrees are issued by Universal Life Church, along with a 10-lesson course in the procedure of setting up and operating a non-profit organization. For a free will offering of $20 we will send you, immediately, all 10 lessons in one package along with the D.D. certificate.

UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH
BOX 6575
HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N.C.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Steak — Salads — Cocktails
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1340 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.