Reenter (Staff photo by WILDKITTENS WORK OUT A freshman cager has an outside shot in practice. Doty)

*Cats Seek Second Win Against VMI Tomorrow*

By HAL CANTER
Sports Writer

Davidson will be out to break a four-game losing streak and to collect their second conference win tomorrow as they
clash with the Keydets of V.M.I. Kickoff for tomorrow’s game at Lexington, Va. is set for 1:30. Sports Information Director
Bob Currie said the Keydets rely heavily upon a running attack. Most of the rushing is supplied by running back
Mac Bowman. The “most outstanding individual” on V.M.I.’s squad, said Currie, is Don Cupit, a field goal kicker. Currie ranked
Cupit as the second or third best kicker in the country. He has been successful on nine out of 15
field goal attempts and is presently one away from tying the Southern Conference record.

SORRENTINO TO CAPTAIN

McGeachy Praises Squad

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

Perhaps the best freshman basketball team in Davidson history has begun practicing for the 1970-71 season. According to Coach Neil
McGeachy, this edition of the Wildkittens has the potential to become the finest in a long line of fine teams,
due mainly to exceptional team balance. “We lack overall height,” said McGeachy, “but we have excellent quickness and people who
can run. We'll stress the running game and do a lot of pressing.”

Mike Sorrentino, 6-0 playmaker from Molloy High School in New York City (22-1 last year), has been elected team captain.
McGeachy calls him “a coach’s dream in the backcourt, better than Dave Moser. He could be one of the top
guards in the country with steady improvement.” Sorrentino will direct the attack, and “can see all” on the fast break.

John Falconi, 6-5 high school all-American and first team all-New York City with a 26-plus average last year, “is the
complete player” says McGeachy. “He is a great shooter, sound defensively,” and compares favorably to Bryan Adrian and other top
New York City players.

Another high school all-American is Steve Gadaire, 6-5, strongboy from Northboro, Mass. All-New England and the leading scorer in his
high school’s history, Gadaire is “real quick inside.” McGeachy will play him at the post in the stack offense he
plans to employ, hoping to take advantage of “a host of offensive moves” that Gadaire boasts.

T. J. Pecorak, 6-6 217-pounder from Fairfax, Va., where he was named first team all-Metropolitan (Washington, D. C.) is an
“excellent ball-handler for his size, and will complement our running game,” said McGeachy. Pecorak is “an outstanding outside shooter and
strong defensively, and will probably draw the top inside defensive assignment.”

Paul Wagner, 6-6, Washington, D. C., made first team all-Metro as a junior and played on the top high school
team in the D. C. area last year. He will be the team’s tallest starter, and is described by McGeachy
as “a vicious rebounder.” Wagner will play the corner in the stack.

Three non-scholarship players have looked good and will help tremendously. Nate Bowman, 6-2, from Ridgewood, N. J. “will be an
outstanding point man who would start for any other team,” according to McGeachy. Gordon Glasgow, 6-7, from San Francisco, has
the size and bulk inside and a soft touch, and will definitely see a lot of action. Bob Vander Griend,
6-8, of Bradenton, Florida, “was one of Florida’s top big men last year,” and came to Davidson because of its
pre-med program. McGeachy labeled him the “hardest worker on the team. He might start.”

Peyton Prospere, 5-11, and Bob Horton, 6-5, have been “most pleasant surprises.” Sam Upchurch, two-time all-Alabama, and Davidson native Oscar
Huntley round out the squad.

McGeachy, in his second year with the freshmen, is being assisted by Major Thomas Dixon of the ROTC department. A
former Tuskegee Institute star, Dixon coached in Georgia high schools before joining the army.

The schedule has been toughened up, with USC, Duke, Wake Forest, Furman, and newcomers Clemson, East Carolina, and UNC-C, among
others.

Asked what could be expected of this obviously talented group, McGeachy replied that “If the lack of height can be
compensated for, the sky’s the limit.”

The Davidsonian
October 30, 1970Page Seven

rie, added that in one game Cupit “scored nine points to win.” V.M.I. has four players on the defensive squad
now who had been playing offense earlier. This is due to injuries on the defense. Murphy Sprinkle, who was playing
quarterback, is now at safety on the defensive team. Gary Shope has replaced Sprinkle at quarterback, and Currie said that
he has performed satisfactorily for the Keydets. He gained more yardage in his first game than the Keydets had previously
averaged per game.

On defense, V.M.I. employs a seven-man front with an extra safety. According to Currie, defensive end Mike North is the
man to watch on the Keydets' defense. Shope and Bowman are joined in the offensive backfield by running back Dorsey
Smallwood and wingback Don Reisch. Currie rates tackle Pete Ramsey and center Bobby Lockridge among the outstanding interior offensive linemen.

Last year, the Keydets had an overall record of 0-10. Their conference record of 0-4 gave them sixth place in
the conference. This year they are 1-2 in conference games. Currie said, “V.M.I. is at the bottom of the conference
in all categories.” Currie said Davidson has had “some tough games. Nobody in the Southern Conference wants to play Wofford.
You cannot look at the record to view Davidson correctly.” Fagg said V.M.I. is a tough football team and their
record is misleading. “They'll hit us as hard as anyone,” he said. “The Keydets have good team speed, fine kicking,
and good coverage.”

Fagg said that the Wildcats came off in reasonably good physical shape after their game with Wofford. However, Jim Buchanan
will still be kept out of the game with a broken hand. Offensively, Andy Davis will start at split end
for the second straight week.

Promoters in Norfolk, Va. have backed down from sponsoring Davidson's football game on Nov. 28 with East Carolina. The game
has been switched to Richardson Stadium with a 1:30 kickoff scheduled. Tidewater Realtor Bowl Inc. had planned to back the
contest with profits going to the Drug Abuse Council. No official reason for their withdrawal has been received here. “We
are disappointed that the game will not be played in Norfolk,” said Athletic Director Tom Scott. “This is an extremely
late date to make this kind of a change and promote a game. It will be particularly difficult for us
since it will be Thanksgiving weekend and our students will be gone for the holidays.”

Card’s Work Toughened By Fraternity Decision
By ERNIE SHIPE
Sports Editor

November will be the critical month for the Wildcat Club’s drive to raise funds for football scholarships, and the trustees'
decision on fraternities has made their work even more difficult. “The trustees' decision hasn’t helped our drive,” commented Steve Heckard,
director of the Wildcat Club athletic fund drive. “Several alumni are frothing at the mouth over the decision.” Heckard explained
that none have called him, but in his talks with other alumni, many of the older ones are very upset.
“I don't know what the effect of the trustees’ decision will be, but I do know that it will make
our work tougher,” Heckard said.

Heckard and the Wildcat Club are in the process of trying to raise $150,000 for football scholarships before the first
of January. The drive was kicked off with a banquet for Wildcat Club members in Charlotte during homecoming weekend. “Around
forty members were in attendance and these represented a geographic range,” said Heckard. Heckard explained that many of these people
will head local fundraising committees. He added that each committee will have four or five members. Each member would first
contact Wildcat Club members about giving and then move down to local alumni and others interested in helping the program.
Heckard is now spending a good deal of his time on the road talking at area alumni meetings.
