OVER THE BAR (Staff Photo by Davidson) Lester Strong clears the bar in early high jump action.

Pikas Hold IMAC Lead With Track Meet Crown

By BILLY COBB
Sports Writer

The Pikas maintained their slim lead over the Delts in the annual IMAC standings by capturing the track meet Monday
afternoon, topping the Delts by 10 points. The Sigs and the surprising Indies, led by Pierce Irby, finished tied for
third. The results of the meet centered around Irby, who garnered the most individual points in the meet. Irby put
new life in the usually weak Indies with first places in both the 120-yard low hurdles and the shot put
while adding a second in the 200-yard dash behind the Betas’ Jay Bowen, who finished in 24.2 seconds. Irby edged
out the Betas’ Trip Adams in the hurdles with his time of 13.85. In the shot put, he upset runner-up
Steve Butler with a winning throw of 48 feet 7¾ inches.

IMAC Overall Standings:
1. Pikas 756.1857
2. Delts 747.9051
3. Sigs 657.8252
4. SPE’s 578.9475
5. Gamms 503.9083
6. SAE’s 453.5765
7. Machis 444.8873
8. Indies 429.3291
9. ATO’s 411.6035
10. Nus 407.6035
11. KA’s 405.3820
12. Betas 375.1131
13. Pi Kapps 207.0254

Billy Pierce, one of three double winners in the meet, paced the victorious Pikas with first places in the 660-yard
run and the mile run, both races held in the rain. In addition to dominating the distance running, Pierce took
a third in the broad jump. Although the Pikas squeezed by the Delts to win the 880-yard relay, the meet
was won with key seconds and thirds that the Pikas amassed. The Delts took several firsts. Carl Salter won the
broad jump at 20' 7". Sig Cooper Geraty joined Pierce and the meet’s other double winners with a 10.6 time
in the 100-yard dash. Jack Hartman toppled Independent Tom Maxwell with a 5' 9½" leap to win the high jump.
The Sigs took the other two first places as John Harper won the discus with a 113-foot toss and Randy
Parker swept the 440-yard dash with an unusually fast time of 53.9. The Sig chances for the championship were damaged
when Mike Kelly did not run in the 220-yard dash finals and Geraty was injured in the broad jump.

The SPE’s and Betas tied for fifth with 10 points. The ATO's, the Gamms, and the SAE’s each mustered three
points. The Pi Kapps failed to score. The Sigma Chis, the KA’s, and the Nus did not participate.

With volleyball underway and tennis and softball still on tap for later in the spring, the race seems to have
settled down to the Pikas and the Delts again this year. The Pikas hold a very tenuous nine-point lead at
the completion of the track meet. The Sigs are 99 points off the pace.

Wildcats To Host 22 Teams In Eleventh Annual Relays

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The eleventh annual Davidson Relays will be held tomorrow, with a record twenty-two schools entered. Davidson track coach Heath Whittle
predicts, “This should be the best one we've ever had.” The relays were conceived in 1960 with the purpose of
providing a meet for schools with non-subsidized track programs. However, as Whittle says, “We wouldn't be able to have the
Davidson Relays now if only non-subsidized teams were allowed to compete.” Nevertheless, most of the teams entered give few scholarships.
A few, like Davidson, give none. Whittle feels his squad will be a strong contender for the team championship it
has won six times. He listed Appalachian, Cumberland, defending champion Western Carolina, Pembroke, and West Georgia as other favorites. In
1969, the only year it has rained on the event, Western Carolina splashed to victory with 52½ points. Pembroke followed
with 52, Cumberland 46, Davidson 43, and West Georgia 36.

Whittle considers Davidson’s best chances to be in the 440, 880, and sprint relay teams. He is counting on them
to either win or place near the top. He gave the four relay teams a good chance of scoring well.
In the field events, Whittle noted that “Steve Kirley has a good chance to place in the shot put and
discus. Ray Swetenburg should have a fair chance to win the triple jump and might place in both the high
jump and long jump. Tom Rogers also has a fair chance of scoring in the long jump.” Tommy Richardson, Whit
Morrow, either Jimmy Trussell or Carl Salter, and Rick Lyon form the Wildcats’ 440-yard and 880-yard relay teams. The sprint
medley quartet, which should be Davidson's strongest entry, is composed of Richardson, Morrow, Trussell, and Lyon.

NETTERS TOP WAKE

Davidson's unbeaten netters knocked off one of the toughest opponents on their schedule and began to grace

‘Cats Sign QB Allport

Mike Allport, a quarterback and defensive safety from Pulaski, N. Y., has signed a football grant-in-aid with Davidson, Head Coach
Dave Fagg said yesterday. “We are very pleased that Mike will be with us in the future,” Fagg said. “He
is a fine student and there is every indication that he could become a fine quarterback for us.” Allport, a
6-2, 195-pounder, is the first announced signing for the Wildcats since Fagg replaced Homer Smith as head coach a month
ago. “But we will be releasing some more names soon,” Fagg said. “Right now we have more than 40 boys
we have recruited for next year’s freshman team. We got a late start but our assistant coaches have done a
fine job of catching up and this may be the best group of football players we have ever brought into
Davidson.” Allport was an all-conference player for Pulaski High School. Last fall he completed 85 of 168 passes for 1,328
yards and 17 touchdowns.

The Davidsonian April 17, 1970 Page Three

Baseballers Split Four Contests

for the hardest week of the season, Harry Fogleman’s tennis team toppled WakeForgst ment which was “very well received,” according
to Davidson. Rusty Boyd gained a 5-4 decision, while Danny avenged last year's 2-1 loss. David Weaver, Jeff Fogleman, Dumansky,
Jim Cantrell, and Jeff Chetwood all won singles, and Cantrell teamed with Hi Lankenau to win the clinching doubles. “There
were better than 500 people there, and we had quite a few good comments about the boys.”

It was a so-so week for the baseball team, as they split doubleheaders with Furman and The Citadel. “We've just
been a little erratic in our play,” said Coach Tom Stevens in explaining the ups and downs of the Wildcats.
Saturday’s action at Charleston saw Davidson capture the first game 5-4, as they banged out ten hits. Lynn Wagner, three
for four, and Mike Frye were the big men with the sticks, but the biggest play of the day was
turned in by senior mainstay Gordon Slade. Slade, mainly noted as a hitter, cut down the tying run, and four
‘Cats conducted a 9-0 loss.

Davidson went down in the second game, however, as they were limited to three hits in a 3-1 loss. They
started out strong again Tuesday with a 7-4 victory over Furman. Wagner again led the ‘Cats at the plate, collecting
two of the team’s five hits. Two wild pitches proved decisive, as they brought in two runs in the four-run
third inning, as Davidson managed only two hits en route to a 5-0 loss.

The golf team failed to follow up on last week’s victory over UNC, as they dropped two matches to ACC
powers this week. Last Friday they journeyed to N.C. State’s home course in Raleigh, where they were walloped, 15-6. Sophomore
Toby Dawson swept his match 3-0, but Coach Tom Scott pinned part of the blame on the course. “State doesn’t
have a good course. It’s one that requires a lot of local knowledge.” He predicts a better showing in today’s
rematch at the Charlotte Country Club.

The results of the Duke match were much the same. The visiting Blue Devils, the strongest team Davidson faces, defeated
the Wildcats 16-5 on Monday. Scott bewails the lack of a low scorer like Mike Spann, but points to balance
as the strength of his squad. “I think we'll be ready for Furman and East Carolina at tournament time.”

Fogleman singled out next week as the second hardest week of the season behind the week of the Southern Conference
tournament as the netters face Furman, Presbyterian, and W.N.C. State. “They were one of our four remaining hard matches,” Fogleman
said. “We are playing excellent tennis now. We're developing into an excellent tennis team. We're playing well, but the competition
is getting tougher.”

Fagg Sees Rebuilding Problems As Spring Practice Approaches
By DON PARMAN
Sports Editor

The stars are gone, but new head coach Dave Fagg is welcoming back 28 lettermen to spring drills. “Most people
would say that they are rebuilding in a situation like this. At Davidson, we say ‘we're starting from scratch,’” said
Fagg. “But we will be defending a championship and we will be competitive in 1970. The challenge is even more
exciting than in 1969.”

The chief trouble spot will be the backfield. Despite the graduation of Southern Conference Player of the Year quarterback Gordon
Slade, halfbacks John Zaharov and Ken Hill, and fullback Mike Mikolayunas return. Leading candidate for the quarterback position is Mark
Thompson, Slade's understudy for the past two years. “We think he is an excellent prospect,” Fagg said. “He is a
fierce competitor and has better speed than either Gordon Slade or Jimmy Poole.”

At the receiving positions, Fagg will be looking for replacements for all-conference performers George Hannen and Mike Kelly. Leading contenders
are speedster Rick Lyon, freshman Andy Davis, and Greg Sikes. Sikes is recovered from his bout with illness that sidelined
him all last season after an outstanding freshman year.

Fagg counts a veteran offensive line as one of his assets. Leonard Baugham, John Harper, and Steve Baldwin lead the
returnees. Fagg is looking to last year’s 4-1 freshman team for help at several positions. In addition to Davis at
end, Jimmy Hardison is counted on to help the defense. Quarterback Scotty Shipp, halfback Bill Bracken, and tackle Bill Garrett
should all provide help next year.

The ‘Cats mile relay team will probably be Billy Pierce, John Puckett, Hill, and Trussell. Bill Naylor, Richard Fort, Howard
Boyd, and James Puckett will make up the two-mile relay, with Hill, James Puckett, Boyd, and Stagg Newman carrying the
home colors in the grueling medley event (440-880-1,320, mile). Davidson’s entry in the shuttle-hurdle relay is not yet complete.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk’s Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N.C.

World Campus Afloat is a college that does more than broaden horizons. It sails to them and beyond. Again in
the 1970-71 academic year, the World Campus Afloat program of Chapman College and its associated Colleges and Universities will take
qualified students, faculty, and staff into the world laboratory. Chapman College currently is accepting applications for both the fall and
spring semesters. Preliminary applications also may be made for all future semesters. Shipboard classes are held between ports aboard the
s.s. Ryndam, which has been equipped with classrooms, laboratories, library, student union, dining room, and dormitories. In-port opportunities, integral to
accredited coursework taught aboard ship, add the dimension of on-the-spot field research experience to formal classroom learning. Fall semesters depart
New York for port stops in the Mediterranean and Latin America. Art student Leana Leach of Long Beach sketches ruins
of the once-buried city during World Campus Afloat visit to Pompeii.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St.
Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-1496

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

Happiness is what I sell! Happiness is getting rid of worries so you “live a little.” You find this happiness
in our special cash-value life insurance plans for Seniors and Graduate Students. Add this special kind of happiness to your
life — I'll be glad to help you do it.

Frank A. Fitzpatrick, Jr.
Southwestern Life
376-8588

WORLD CAMPUS AFLOAT
Director of Student Selection Services
Chapman College, Orange, Calif. 92666

Please send your catalog and any other material I need to have.
