Janson Lectures On Art

By ALEC HOON And ROBERT TOUCHTON

Staff Writers

H. W. Janson, Davidson's first Reynolds lecturer of the year, opened his series of lectures with a talk on “Art and Religion” Tuesday afternoon. In contrast, he said that the style of the Northerners, and in particular that of the Dutch painter Bosch, portrayed figures lacking in dignity. Bosch, he pointed out, used his figures to suggest man oppressed by greed and lust, contaminated from the beginning of time. A large part of his lecture consisted of contrasting the art of the Italian Renaissance with that of the Northern European Renaissance.

His main point was that whereas the Italians revealed a remarkable confidence in man, the Northerners exhibited a singular pessimism in that respect, being obsessed with thoughts and fears of death. To illustrate this idea he pointed to the self-dignity in the figures of the Italian painters, using Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel as an example.

Janson, a professor of Fine Arts at New York University and author of the textbook, “A History of Art,” which is presently being used at Davidson, returned to speak in Hodson Hall on Tuesday night. The topic of his lecture was “The Role of Chance in Artistic Creation.” By “chance,” Janson meant the emergence of a form in a work of art by the combination of random brush strokes, through no intention of the artist.

He began by presenting the ideas of ancient Greeks and others on chance. He said that to them “chance was equivalent to inspiration or genius,” being considered “a sign of divine favor.” Janson pointed to the Greeks’ ornamentation of their gravestones with leaf foliages which through some unknown artist’s inspiration assumed facial characteristics. Through time, the making of faces out of foliage became a common practice. The faces thus became “institutionalized chance images” which were repeated by later artists, he said.

Janson then turned his attention to the presence of chance images in the work of Renaissance artists. He said that while the images sometimes assumed some meaning in the artistic creation, they often served to inspire the artist. The artist saw a resemblance to a face in a cloud or in other backgrounds which he then touched up to become a recognizable likeness.

Janson concluded by mentioning the modern Abstract Impressionists, whom he defended against the claims of many conservatives that their work was not really art. “Out of the prompting of the muse of chance” art is created, he finished.

Janson continued his lectures on Wednesday morning with a presentation on the famed Italian artist and sculptor Donatello. Later Wednesday morning, with the aid of slides in a darkened Hodson Hall, Janson presented the art of the Modern School, which he defined on the basis of the distinctive features of this new period in art.

He showed slides where the modern period in art began during the second half of the 18th Century, influenced by the revolutionary changes occurring at this time. The first of the distinctive features between modern art and the art which preceded it was the feeling of modern artists that they were separate from their classes, serving instead as social prophets and philosophers, rendering criticism and judgment on the modern world.

The second characteristic was what Janson called the “monumentalization of private adventure,” a major change from the former emphasis on religious and Biblical themes. The third of these distinctions was the substitution of nationalistic scenes and characters for formerly Biblical creations. Janson termed...

“Who’s Who” Selects 19

“Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges” will include 19 Davidson seniors in its 1971 edition. Selected by a committee of faculty, staff...and junior class members, these students represent "the cream of the crop," according to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr. John Bruner, president of the Interfraternity Council, plays varsity soccer, counsels freshmen as a hall counselor, and is a member of the activities grant foundation. Honor Court member Herb Clegg spends his time as freshman class advisor and is a member of the Phi Literary Society. 

Student Senate President Ran Coble spends his time on the track team and YMCA cabinet. He is also a member of ODK and was president of Belk Residence Hall Council. Founder of the Free University, Rich Cowart is a student member on the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) and a former member of the student senate. Cowart is presently enrolled in the Honors College. 

Ed Debbs was the founder of the campus radio station WDAV, and is presently its station manager. He has been active in campus drama productions and is a member of the Red and Black Masquers. Gene Early is presently chairman of the Honor Court and has remained active throughout his career at Davidson. 

Hall counselor Alan Kirkpatrick has wrestled for Davidson during his four years here and is presently a member of the Honor Court. Football and track are the major accomplishments of Rick Lyerly, who won the freshman athlete award in 1969 and collected numerous track awards. Gray Mason has been active on the debate team throughout his career at Davidson. Elected as president of the honorary debate fraternity, Mason has served on the EPC subcommittee on speech and speech arts. 

Mike Mikolayunas has played on Davidson's football team during the four years he has been here. Tom Opie, enrolled in the Honors College, served as vice president of the student senate last year. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, Opie had the highest average in his class during his freshman year. Senior class president Allen Peterson transferred to Davidson in his junior year. He is presently a hall counselor. 

THE DAVIDSONIAN cartoonist Cullum Rogers has actively participated in numerous drama productions and is a member of the Red and Black Masquers. A columnist and associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Paul Rowland has been a member of the YMCA cabinet, the Eumenean Society, and the psychology club. Welden Schenck is presently president of the Union board and chairman of the activities grant foundation. He also is a North Carolina Fellow. 

Currently serving as president of the YMCA, Greg Scott also spends his time as a freshman hall counselor. Scott has been active on various student-faculty committees. Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN Ed Shoaf is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Alpha Epsilon Delta honorary fraternities. He is also secretary of the publications board. 

Tim Timmons is presently editor of "Quips and Cranks" and a member of the male chorus. Timmons has also been active in various drama productions and is a member of the Red and Black Masquers. Timmons starred on the college bowl team and has helped with the "Wildcat Handbook." A member of Phi Beta Kappa and president of Omicron Delta Kappa, Jimmy Trussell is a member of the track team and is also enrolled in the Honors College. 

Sherrill’s Jewelry Watch & Jewelry Repair Davidson, N.C.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 to 10:30 Davidson, N.C. Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Changing Man 181 N. Main St.