The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO APRIL 24, 1970

The Good Earth

This week's Ecological Do-In is an effort worthy of commendation in that it seeks to bring home the immediacy of the problems which have occurred through man’s unthinking neglect of his environment. The work details and the request that automobiles not be used in Davidson will be valuable object lessons in the sacrifices which must be made if our environmental problems are to be solved. Yet, when all is done, a great deal remains to be said. The ecological disruption which now confronts us is inextricably bound up with the un-paralleled technological advance which has occurred in this country over the last half century, an advance from which all of us profit in one way or another. And since all of us have profited from this technological prostitution of nature, it follows that all of us must be in some way inconvenienced by controls on this technology. A “Do-In” is not the answer. Basic personal attitudes must be changed. A teach-in has been scheduled to take place in May, hopefully to fill the information gap. Its organizers are working diligently to make it a worthwhile venture, but they cannot succeed without the support of the student body. The participation of students who have taken the time to do a minimal amount of reading about the ecological crisis will advance the teach-in as a truly educational experience; lack of such preparation will make it, at best, a source of cocktail information. The bookstore has obtained a number of works on the environmental crisis; numerous national magazines, notably Saturday Review, have devoted space to it. The free time available between now and the May teach-in would be well spent in familiarizing oneself with what may be the most important issue of this century.

Circus Daze

“A forty-eight hour scramble to cram as much socializing and entertainment into two days as possible.” This is the definition given to big weekends at Davidson. Really? It seems more like an overextension into carnival-like fakery to cover up for the dead weekends in between. Actually, spring frolics was not particularly bad — it’s just the idea. Why have a social life consisting of little or nothing on most weekends and then be forced into making the giant dive for tension relief — a dive which extends for some from Thursday noon until the following Tuesday? We certainly do not advocate less social life — rather we should have it more regularly scheduled. One proposal might be having a concert weekend every other week and surrounding these times with UCH, the artist series, and the like. The reasons: First of all, we would not feel on these weekends that we had to fill up every hour beginning Friday morning — eliminating such occurrences as $1000 bands playing for fifteen people considerably after midnight. In addition to very late-night entertainment, we would also be removing such paddings as The Great Boros to the tune of $500. Secondly, there’s the inconvenience. It is more than a little irritating for some of the upperclassmen to move out of their dorms for the weekend — especially the ones who could find no other shelter than to wrap up in Will Terry’s robes and sleep on the altar. Thirdly, this change in the social calendar would eliminate the big review trap that inevitably follows on the week after one of our blow-ups — some don’t even find their books until Tuesday — some don’t even look for them until then. Lastly, such a change would hopefully revamp the social life in such a way as to improve our attitude toward the opposite sex which hits an all-time low on these occasions — and also our whole emphasis as far as social life — less strenuous and less of a sham, but perhaps more frequent, and really more enjoyable.

Cut Time

Faculty academic logic is still alive and well at Davidson College. It was last seen at Monday’s faculty meeting. First, the faculty voted down a proposal which would have allowed students unlimited cuts. Perhaps their conservatism is sound since professors can generally set their own cut rules. However, a second move, one which reaffirmed the rule that professors must turn in to the registrar a list of every student's cuts, deserves unqualified ridicule. If a professor is satisfied that a student has passed his course, of what use is a record of cuts? Perhaps in spite of the Blue Sky attitude, rules still precede educating students when it comes to administrative priorities.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Controversy Over CRC Rulings Draws Varied Student Reaction

To the Editor:
It is an unfortunate situation for a college student body when it has to tolerate a smaller minority whose only intention is to cause trouble in the student-administration channel of communication. This is particularly true of faculty committees regarding the curriculum at Davidson. Responsible student leaders are trying to push student-backed proposals through legal and sensible channels while a small number of students “can't wait” and demand immediate, radical action and special rights for themselves. The eight demands of the so-called Ad Hoc Committee for the Protection of Students are the ultimate of immaturity. The committee seeks the reversal of three decisions of faculty committees regarding the curriculum at Davidson. Apparently, several people were upset by the decisions which most likely were made after careful consideration of all factors. Hence the committee expects and demands that President Spencer take corrective action.

Mullen Supports

To the Editor:
Goethe has said: “How many years you have to keep doing, until you know what to do and how to do it.” I would like to think that I have best expressed my feeling of deep frustration by my choice of opening quote.

Beckmann Doubts Faculty Logic; Baskin Asserts ROTC Must Go

To the Editor:
Quite recently on this campus there have occurred two events which I find totally perplexing. In the first case, the faculty voted to deny that what was actually happening was actually happening, and in the second, the students voted to ignore the fact that the faculty did not mean what it had said. I refer, of course, to the seething issue of open dormitories. From what little second-hand information I have, the first reason could be called the “Moral Argument.” The argument is that there are certain basic moral standards that an individual professor has; by voting for open dorms, the professor feels that either (1) this will enable (or cause) the student to transgress those morals more easily, or (2) in so voting, he has violated his own sense of morality. As to the first point, a student should, of course, respect the moral standards of a faculty member (or anyone else, for that matter) as a set of personal beliefs. But by the same token, the faculty member should so respect the student’s morals — needless to say, these two sets of personal beliefs need not coincide. In the second case, a faculty member may feel that by voting against open dorms he is condoning a proclivity toward homosexual activity (given the present composition of the Davidson student body) which, in our progressive society, is objectionable under any circumstances. The second reason could be called the “Argument from Design” — the present dormitory structure does not provide suitable conditions for open dorms. This is probably true, but (1) students have been living under such “unsuitable conditions” for some time, and (2) even though they (and not the faculty) will be the ones to suffer from such circumstances, nevertheless they still appear to desire open dorms. The primary point is that adoption of the open dorm program will not appreciably increase student housing problems simply because whatever problems might arise probably already exist. To use the argument of design is simply a case of denying that what is actually happening is actually happening. As I see it, the main question to be considered is: if the faculty rejects the plan, how will it enforce its stand? But, of course, this assumes that the faculty really means what it says. I suppose the best solution is to continue under the existing program, perpetuating our life of complacency under the Hypocritic Oath.

Bill Beckmann ‘72
Davidson College

To the Editor:
While the return of spring brings the cyclical surge of bold life, at Davidson it is accompanied by the muffled tramp of mercenary soldiers. Their ponderous rhythm reminds us that while ROTC has often been attacked, it has never been eradicated. In light of the recent moralizing from the hazy heights of the academic community, another examination of the moral labyrinth is necessary. The old lie “Everybody has to go, so why not get a good deal in ROTC,” remains a lie. War has not been the inevitable fate of every individual, for the conscientious objector could choose emigration or prison, both preferable to murder. And with recent changes in the draft laws, the old lie becomes even more nefarious. Further, the chimera of involuntary servitude obscures the fact that the murder of Vietnamese is anything but service to this country. If Davidson College assumes the responsibility to set the moral tone of the community, this leadership is eroded by the continued presence of ROTC. The college’s allegiance to training soldiers discourages students from seeking moral alternatives to militarism. How much more desirable would be a program allowing students on-campus training for peaceful service such as the Peace Corps and VISTA. Moral consistency demands the removal of ROTC.

Hugh A. Baskin ‘73
Davidson College

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that week. All letters must be typed and double-spaced. We reserve the right to edit letters over 250 words in length. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.

The quote obviously having to do with mastering a task, is used to refer to something we all know and love — our friend, but our clothes’ enemy, the apparel makers.- apparel/seller, tailor-haberdasher complex’s best friend: The Davidson College Laundry. I am, I promise Mr. Stacks, attempting to make his life easier by pointing out “to whom it may concern" that our college citizen’s costume caretaking corporation, which is located behind our beautiful maintenance building, is to many of Davidson’s cosmopolites a calamity. Not only does it squander much of what we bring to it, but often some of what it returns to us is indeed eradicated, razed, obliterated and in a very real sense “sacrificed” beyond identification. I have, fortunately, escaped much of the preceding brand of assassination of one’s wardrobe. But I have often been the victim of the worst tragedy of them all: THE SHRINK. It is true that in this technique the laundry does not kill or maim beyond recognition, but it inflicts upon our unfortunate threads the horrible destiny of living the rest of their lives in a perverted dwarf-like form. This in itself is gruesome, but the laundry adds insult to injury by such antics as charging the exorbitant fee of $1.50 per pair of slacks to have the length let out. This is sinful. Seriously, let’s see a few changes for the better.
Jim Crouse ‘71
Davidson College

To the Editor:
Normally THE DAVIDSONIAN is a fine college newspaper, and normally it prints the important news. But last week it made a heinous error — there was not one word about Earth Day, April 22, in the entire newspaper. That is inexcusable. Admittedly, our ECOS organization did not choose to do spectacular things on April 22. We chose to help with the community clean-up and to try to call people's attention to the whole problem by circulating pamphlets and petitions. We didn't burn an automobile nor did we lynch an industrialist. That might have gotten a little publicity, but it would have helped nothing. The famous apathy of Davidson students is palpable in regard to this issue—almost no one volunteered to help with the automobile boycott. Perhaps because they didn’t understand exactly what it was to be, but more likely because it meant that they wouldn't get to drive their cars from the dormitory to the fraternity house at lunch and supper. Quite a few people did volunteer for the clean-up and maybe we picked up all the litter that was deposited during spring frolics. But I'm being unnecessarily bitter. The whole point of the movement, the whole point of Earth Day, was to make people understand that everything rests on the individual. Now, on May 5, we are going to have our teach-in on the environment. We have an excellent program scheduled and the publicity for it will come out shortly. After that, the real job begins. ECOS must continue as a vital organization on campus—there is an infinity of ways we could help solve some of the problems of the county and the state. There is a wealth of talent and influence on this campus and it needn’t be as slothful as it has been up to now. THE DAVIDSONIAN can help enormously if it would give the effort the coverage it needs and deserves.
Patrick B. Mullen ‘70
Davidson College

To the Editor:
As a member of the Ad Hoc Committee for the Protection of Students, I wish to express my great displeasure with an article in last week's DAVIDSONIAN. While the editorial and the cartoon were fair, I feel that the article on page one grossly distorted our position. The headline was particularly inflammatory and did not reflect the committee's major concern in this matter. The article strengthened this false impression by briefly summarizing the petition and focusing undeserved attention on an exaggeration of a minor item. Proposal eight in the petition, which THE DAVIDSONIAN badly misconstrued, does not represent my views nor does it represent the views of many committee members. My purpose in writing is not so much to castigate the DAVIDSONIAN staff as to make known our true position.
L. Stuart Allan
Davidson College ‘70

To the Editor:
I am writing this letter in response to the pamphlet recently circulated to the student body concerning errors by the CRC, the Executive Committee, and the Admissions Committee. What disturbs me are the references to “dropping out of school to get out of ROTC, the only legal means to do so.” This indicates to me a lack of moral courage and intellectual fiber on the part of the student involved in the attempt to get out of ROTC. There is another legal means to get out of ROTC, which takes more courage and initiative, but is a much more honest approach, and in the long run has greater benefits in improvement of the social matrix in which we find ourselves in this country. This means is resignation from the ROTC program. Dropping out of school to get out of ROTC seems to be somewhat intellectually dishonest, because:
1. It is an avoidance of facing the issue with the ROTC department personnel on the basis of an intellectual or moral conviction on the part of the person resigning which is antithetical to proper service as an officer; and/or
2. It is taking advantage of the benefits of the ROTC program (i.e., $50 a month) without proper intent of fulfilling the contract: ethical considerations implicit in the nature of a contract call for at least an effort on the part of the one who is resigning to offer to pay back part or all of the money paid to him if he does not wish to fulfill the contract. A frank resignation will at one and the same time illustrate disillusionment with the military, forcing reform in order to run the Armed Forces at all, and, if the basic complaints are stated clearly and enough times, will give a basis on which to build reform. In this case, dropping out is copping out and seems to me to be a very poor approach to the problem of getting out of ROTC.
Norman M. Cary Jr. ‘70
Davidson College

Uncle Percival’s Wart
By David Sweatt

Guys: Finish Nice
One myth prevalent at this and other small colleges is that students enrolled at such institutions enjoy certain benefits by virtue of the smallness itself. While the advantages of a favorable faculty-student ratio are evident, it is a deception to say that comparable advantages exist on academic rules and regulations beyond the classroom. What the fantasy boils down to here is the grim promise that somehow it’s more gentlemanly to put the screws on students individually than to do them in plurally. The students involved have customarily said, “what the heck! I just want to get my dagnabit (This is a family newspaper, written so that members of the Continuing College Community can avoid no-no language.) degree and get the heck out of here. And after I get out they’ll never get any kind of support from me.” Contempt? Yes. What could be done about it? A similar situation has arisen recently on a college campus much like this one. A group of students there felt that a number of wrongs had been done to students and set out to relieve the situation of several individuals and make some changes that would give students a better chance in the future. Having pursued the “proper channels” without any hint of relief, the student group circulated a petition among students which asked the president of the college to direct his attention to several specific points and to meet at a later date to tell students in an open meeting what actions he had taken or would take on all the points. Supported by a resolution from the student government, the petition was taken to the president by a small delegation representing the group of students. To their shock and dismay the president refused to even accept the petition. The students were dumbfounded: “Yes,” they responded, “the article in last week's definitely misrepresented our position but that small problem, along with objections to tone, explain the refusal?” The students knew that their concern was what it had always been — relief for some students and some changes that might affect students in the future and thereby make a better college. Thus at last report the students were said to be sitting down to eat crow once again. The powers that be could afford to talk about “saving face” but the students would have to pursue the less ego-satisfying task of eating. Surely such accounts have no bearing on the sublime campus of Davidson College, where students are treated with respect and fairness, and not as inferiors. Of course not. We are indeed fortunate to be in a place where there is no reason to fear that such events might transpire if students tried to bring about similar changes here. Count your crows... I mean blessings.