.arid independent social existence. The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” — Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO
SEPTEMBER 25, 1970

At the end of last spring, THE DAVIDSONIAN promised to still, at least temporarily, its editorial voice with regard to
several issues in anticipation of future action in these areas. Among these issues, perhaps chief among them from our point
of view, was that of fraternities. After an analysis published in the midst of some bitter reaction, we concluded that
fraternities had been adequately exposed and that direct action was required. Several recent developments have compelled us to break our
editorial truce.

First, there are the ideas that have come out of a consideration of the abortive refrigerator restrictions. While these restrictions
were eased, the prohibition on cooking in the dorms remains strictly in force. Yet this problem has been officially approached
only from the angle of official sanitary restrictions. This retreat behind the skirts of a higher unimpeachable authority demonstrates the
unwillingness on the part of the administration to consider or to admit the existence of the real problem of determining
why students are cooking in the dorms.

It seems to us that an approach from this angle will reveal that students have been turned away from the
fraternities to fend for themselves in record numbers. The rhetoric of last spring’s eruption of student concern over national and
international issues included much talk on this campus and elsewhere of working for peace candidates in the November elections. Unfortunately,
on this campus especially, the talk quickly died to vague promises to do something without it ever really being clear
exactly what that something was. And over the summer even this talk died from most lips.

Yet now there is a valid opportunity for students to work in this area for candidates who promise to offer
new viewpoints to the 1971 Congress. With the organization of a branch Movement for a New Congress on this campus,
students have the chance and the challenge to put their earlier promises into practice. And while rules on cooking may
“protect the health of this mass of upperclassmen,” they ignore the main problem of decreasing acceptance of Davidson’s fraternity system.
And it is this problem which needs to be met now.

Fortunately, there are signs that the problem will be met in the very near future and these indications are the
second factor compelling us to speak again to this issue. President Spencer’s speech to the freshmen suggested rather immediate steps
might be taken to reform Davidson’s social system. Furthermore, quite reliable rumors indicate that the Student Life Committee (SLC), which
has been studying the problem, is ready to release their report on the study calling for quite drastic, though needed,
changes.

Should these rumors be realized as true in the next week or so, and indeed we hope that will be
the case, we would like to urge sober consideration of whatever changes may be projected. We have reached the point
where one study will have to be accepted as final, and one set of changes will have to be implemented.
After decades of study and delay, a little finality is hardly too much to ask.

Concrete Chances For Future Hope Rests With Davidson Student Body

The need for a new Congress is as strong as ever. After the defeat of the “amendment to end the
war” and with the Mid-East crisis looming in front of every bit of draft bait on this campus and across
the nation, it is imperative that the voices of dissent with American military interventionist policy be heard as never before.
As Whit Ayres, organizer of the local movement, has pointed out, we do not have a Kennedy or a Lowenstein
to work for, but we don’t really need one. The change that must come in America involves not only a
new Congress but also a new set of priorities and presuppositions for action. Such a change can only come at
the lowest level of national politics. And God knows that piedmont North Carolina is part of that lowest level.

A Snail’s Pace

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Student Believes Rowland Has Gone A Bit Too Far

To the Editor:

I always have serious misgivings about a letter to THE DAVIDSONIAN critical of something on campus because I am naive
enough to think that when opinions are put into print that they are given a certain credence which may be
unjustified (a point well made in last week's lead editorial). It is even harder for me to bring myself to
verbally castigate a student, but this time Paul Rowland has gone a bit too far. It is difficult to give
attention to someone precocious enough to title his column “PERcept,” even if that title employs such a really catchy use
of his initials; but having to digest what appears beneath the masthead is worse! Without going into detailed criticism of
that inane piece of work (too bad he didn’t find the column he was attempting to write), nothing much ever
seems to happen at Davidson outside of a great deal of complaining among students both on and off THE DAVIDSONIAN.
This year, however, seems to be a particularly slow start. No ad hoc committees abound. There are no meetings of
the student senate. There is no evidence of fiery rallies or mounting crusades. But the spirit of delay that is
particularly disappointing is so often shrouds major issues on this campus.

Once again this continuing tradition has crawled into the Ante. The Committee on Campus Governance. Conceived last spring and quickly
filled with the proper appointments, the committee just as quickly (or so it seems) delayed its first meeting until October
29, almost two months into the school year. By delaying the first meeting until after the fall meeting of the
trustees, effective and final action may have been delayed even further since that body surely will need ample time to
consider the main issues of conversation even before they consider the specifics of change. The issues do press us in
spite of the spirit of leisure which seemsTo surround the schedule of the committee. The need for more flexible, responsible,
and representative forms of government for all at Davidson is critical. Therefore, we urge this committee to get on with
the business at hand and to propose as soon as possible after meetings are begun some real solutions to Davidson’s
government problems.

Dorm Commotion Annoys Redding

To the Editor:

There has been much debate in the last several years concerning the eighteen-year-old vote. Apparently, those against this reform have
visited the verbal battles between East and Cannon—the freshman dorms. These attacks, constantly led by the same verbose and obese
Davidson students, usually begin after 11 p.m. This is when the studious students are beginning to go to bed and
the “cool guys” are beginning to show the effects of their beer.

by Johnny Hart

Unable to maturely cope with the beer and the freedom afforded them at Davidson campus, they begin showing their “manliness”
by shouting a fifteen-minute dissertation of four-letter words. Although humorous at first, this action becomes rather monotonous after a few
minutes and can be extremely annoying when trying to get some sleep. These “fine” Davidson students usually succeed in disrupting
the whole evening and are creating a gap within the freshman class—a real benefit to this institution!

One might argue that the majority of eighteen-year-olds should not be kept from voting because of an immature few. This
might be so if it weren’t for the fact that those capable of voting aren’t allowed sufficient rest to think
clearly. A mature vote requires clear thinking.

Thomas Redding ‘74
Davidson College

We must love justice more than we hate injustice, or at least we must try. We must destroy the power
of the dead letter over the living deed. I know of administration officials who have given of themselves for years
toward the goal of defining and bending rules to student advantage. Yet, when they say “no” to a student demand,
they are dealt with derisively. I know of a senior—of outstanding qualities—who contributed much to Davidson; yet, he left embittered
over a single incident in his last term. Why do we let these things happen? Is it because we don’t
work hard enough to build a community of trust?

On the other hand, I know the genuine joy that professors felt in meeting seniors’ parents at the President’s reception,
and the pangs of parting with some of the best men one will ever know. I know of students, still
here, who already are helping to create a better life for others. Why? Because many are committed to building a
community that will set Davidson apart as a special place. A by-product of looking for better ways of living together
will be a new civilization.

Do we know what is the responsible role for the academic community in society at large? Somehow we have to
work at restoring the faith of America in her institutions of higher education; for we do bear part of the
responsibility for the anti-intellectualism that is rampant in the land today. It seems to me that part of the answer
lies in convincing “the real majority” that at Davidson we are committed to the pursuit of the public interest—not as
some kind of pre-existing platonic idea but, rather, that which emerges out of differences of opinion, reasonably propounded. We must
not let a revolution in lifestyles or the current revolution in politics undermine our rightful function of critically examining society
and government.

Finally, to achieve this sense of common purpose would argue—Davidson as an institution must set about to re-examine and shape
up its moral-religious commitment in our time. John Gardner has expressed the ideal so well: “The idea of individual fulfillment
within a framework of moral purpose must become our deepest concern... our passion, our obsession.” Freedom without moral commitment is
aimless and promptly self-destructive. It is my earnest hope that my colleagues and fellow students will vigorously argue with me
over the ideas presented here.

William B. Jackson, Jr.
Davidson College

I would like to mention one literary gem that was especially irksome; the reference is to Rowland’s remark that “Slick
Sam” hadn't had enough time “to make an ass of himself.” Obviously, Rowland’s only “perception” was in discovering a way
to achieve the metamorphosis he prognosticated for Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. in a shorter time than he thought possible for
the president. In an issue of the paper which contained the editor’s own comments about the need for increasing dialogue
and understanding between trustees, students, faculty, and administration, these sorts of ad hominem statements are intolerable. No administrator should have
to begin an academic year with that sort of innuendo preceding him into whatever contact situations he may be seeking
with students. And how can dialogue begin when the intellectual level of discussion has been reduced to name-calling?

Before anyone should get the wrong idea, I must hasten to point out that I myself am not necessarily supporting
the actions of Dr. Spencer and other members of the faculty or administration, for that matter. I prefer to wait
for those actions to occur before taking my stand (a practice Mr. Rowland wants to avoid, perhaps on the grounds
of his clearer “perception” of the matter). Some may remember, however, that at least once in the past I have
put into print criticism of Spencer on the matter of his statements concerning the continuing college community. My point is
that one does not have to agree with everything a man says or does to give him the benefit of
the doubt at least some of the time. We are living in the Age of Agnew and are likely to
be reading many more pieces containing the sort of slight of which Paul has been guilty. This calls for likewise
increasing responsible newspapermanship, and last week's editorial about the purpose of THE DAVIDSONIAN was a step in the right direction.
I am also interested in seeing some hell raised from time to time, and I laughed with everybody else when
I first read Rowland’s epigrammatic labeling. A little reflection, however, will point out that no party to negotiations is bettering
his chances by bringing to the conference table a record of having caricatured the other side as incompetent.

Robert Folger ‘71
Davidson College

This week’s Convocation brings to mind a melange of thoughts which, although disconnected, reflect on this school and the society
which surrounds it. Herewith a few for your consideration:

It is fortunate that the Convocation already existed as an idea in the mind of Samuel Spencer, else the Educational
Policy Committee, Faculty Executive Committee, Ad Hoc Committee of Concerned and/or Committed Students, the Ladies’ Bible Class of the Concord
Presbyterian Church, or one of the remaining scores of august bodies without which this school would not be what it
is, would have had to invent one. For sparing us that arduous process, and, more importantly, for adding a valuable
event to the college calendar, thank you Dr. Spencer.

The pageantry of the Convocation ceremony says more about the idea of “community” than all of the hot air which
is now being expended on that subject in the rhetoric of the current generation of student polls. The trappings of
a formal academic ceremony are more than just showpieces or indicators of position in the academic Great Chain of Being;
they are representative of membership in a community which transcends time and place, defining itself through the common quest of
its members for understanding, if not Truth; the community of scholars. As indicated by the regalia, the search has been
going on in the universities since the Middle Ages, with new discovery opening the door to further investigation. In this
light, it is hard to see how the ceremony could fail to evoke a sense of humility and awe in
the inheritors of that tradition. College “governance,” codes of conduct, curriculum, and administration are certainly the legitimate concern of the
members of the academic community at Davidson, but unless the community concerns itself first with the goals represented by the
cap and gowns, it denies its primary raison d’etre, making the rest meaningless.

Presentation of the Thomas Jefferson and Alumni Association awards was an important part of the ceremony, for it underlined the
best side of the university tradition: excellence in teaching and scholarship. The present curriculum is in no way sacrosanct, yet
the personal qualities encouraged by the awards will always be necessary for the fulfillment of this college’s academic goals. The
reforms now contemplated may revitalize Davidson, but they will never obviate the need for sacrifice, diligence, and enthusiasm in the
pursuit of knowledge.

The tremendous response of everyone present to Ivan Allen, former Mayor of Atlanta, and James Rouse, builder of the new
city of Columbia, Maryland, was a result neither of their abilities as public speakers, nor the presence of “charisma” in
either, but because both have succeeded in confronting the problems of urban life in a time when the outlook in
that area is gloomy, at best. Allen and Rouse were well received because they have made optimum use of the
institutions of government and the free market in the betterment of the urban environment, and because they have succeeded. What
this country needs, as evidenced by the achievement of these two men, is leadership which is concerned less with its
image and more with making its programs work.
