Swimmers Sink Emory For Win

The Wildcat swim team travels to Williamsburg this afternoon to battle conference power William and Mary. The swimmers will all
have to turn in outstanding times to stay in the pool against the highly favored Indians. As usual, the big
men for Davidson are expected to be Jim Newton and Mac Davis in the sprints. These two offer the best
chances of victory and team with Jim Winn and Doug Stott to contend for the relay honors.

In action held earlier this week, the Cats split a pair of meets, bringing their record to 2-1. Monday, the
swimmers journeyed to VMI only to be thrashed 71 to 33. Tuesday, they reversed themselves, topping Emory 64-39 in the
friendly confines of the Johnston Gym pool.

“We don’t ever swim well against VMI," stated swim coach Tom Stevens. “Every time we go down there and our
boys see that place, all they can think about is getting back home.” In this way, Coach Stevens voiced his
disappointment with the times turned in by the team. VMI dominated the entire meet, as the Wildcats were held to
only two victories. Mac Davis picked up the lone individual victory in the 50-yard freestyle, then teamed with Winn, Stott,
and Newton for the other winning performance, the 400 freestyle relay. The only other bright spot for the Cats was
Hunter Brown, who picked up a second place in the 500-yard freestyle.

Tuesday's meet was an entirely different story, as the team garnered several 1-2 finishes in an all-around strong performance. Jim
Newton, fresh despite swimming on Monday, beat out teammate Davis in the 50 and 100-yard freestyles. Doug Stott and Scott
Davidson swept the 200 freestyle, continuing the cleanup in the sprints. Stott also picked up a win in the 200-yard
butterfly. The other double winner was Hunter Brown, who chopped twenty seconds from Monday's time to win the 1000-yard event,
then improved another ten seconds in the 500 freestyle for his second victory.

Pikas

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The Pikas clinched at least a tie for first place in intramural basketball this week, as they trounced four foes
and upped their record to 11-0. The Pikas drubbed the ATO's last Wednesday night to the tune of 81-54, behind
John Calhoun’s 19 points. Mort Chiles and Jim Roy each tallied 12 for the losers, who never seriously threatened. The
following night the league leaders routed the Betas 79-36, as Floyd Strand hit for 25 points and six of the
winners scored in double figures.

Actions End Grid Doubt

“We are delivered from uncertainty.” Those were the grateful words of Davidson head football coach Homer Smith as he assessed
the meaning of the recent trustee decision on subsidized football for the Wildcat team. Smith pointed out that the uncertainty
over the football program had a negative impact on recruiting. “We couldn't get many of the very best players because
an opponent could always say that the Davidson program was about to be deemphasized. A boy doesn't want to go
to a school where he can't have support from underclassmen because the school has stopped giving scholarships.”

Smith added that the situation arising from the commission reports has hurt the chances for recruiting this year. “We had
a very uncertain position and most of the very best players have already signed with other schools. But recruiting is
like anything else, if you get all excited, things go well.” Smith added, “We're relieved. This has been a very
long year and the uncertainty has taken a lot out of us.”

Smith said that he anticipated no problems with the funding of the program from donations through the Living Endowment. “The
alumni have assured me that Davidson wants the football program. The program can be and will be as good as
it has been this year. We should never go back to the kind of years that some of the sports
writers have predicted for us. I'm not worried about supplying funds if the alumni are behind it.”

Athletic Director Tom Scott also indicated pleasure with the trustee decision. “The decision is a good one, much better than
basing it entirely on need.” Scott, too, was unconcerned with the role of the alumni under the plan. “It doesn't
give the alumni any control at all. They have stressed in their talk with me that they believe that they
can raise the money to keep the program well funded.”

The Pikas defeated the Machis 92-55 on Tuesday, with Mark Dickens scoring 25 points and Doug Scott adding 22, although
they yielded game scoring honors to Steve Williams, who banged in 23 markers for the Machis. The Pikas slipped into
second place with a 10-1 record. Mike Dickens was too much for the Nicholson team as he dropped in 32
points. Wade Shepard and Kent Rhodes led the SPE's with 19 and 17 points, respectively.

The Delts dropped into third with a 9-2 mark. Garth Hampton and John McCammon tallied 19 points each as the
Delts, who were preseason favorites, downed the Indies 68-56. Frank Soos, Steve Salyer, and Johnny Jewett all had 11 points
in the losers’ well-balanced attack. The following night the ATO's blew a 27-13 halftime lead by going scoreless in the
third quarter, enabling the Delts to escape with a 41-38 triumph.

The battle for fourth place tightened up with four teams jammed up behind the Delts. The Sigs currently occupy that
spot with a 6-3 slate, followed by the Gamms and Betas at 7-4 and the Nus at 6-4. The Sigs
destroyed the KA’s 94-45 last Wednesday as Bob Niebauer burned the nets for 32 points.

Lewis Mills

By ERNIE SHIPE
Asst. Sports Editor

Saturday is Valentine's Day and with it comes the lovable Lewis Mills. Mills, if you don't know, is the colorful
head coach of Richmond, whose antics often divert the spectators’ attention away from the game to himself. This might be
a good thing for Mills.As his squad has managed only five wins against 15 defeats in South Conference, the Wildcats
are set for a Valentine's contest. Randy Denton will start at center, with Dick DeVenzio and Brad Evans or John
Posen in the backcourt. The Wildcats nipped Duke in overtime last year in the Coliseum by a score. Duke will
probably open with Rick Katherman and Larry Saunders at the forward positions.

Richmond has been plagued with injuries and other problems throughout the season. Stan Ryfinski has missed two ball games due
to mononucleosis and will probably miss more. The Wildcats will be a young group with captain Gordon Slade as the
only senior letterman returning. Slade is organizing indoor workouts for bad weather sessions while Stevens is occupied with the swimming
team.

The Wildcats face one of their toughest challenges of the season when they face Duke at the Charlotte Coliseum. The
game will be a Blue Devil home game. Richmond has been plagued with injuries and other problems throughout the season.
Stan Ryfinski has missed two ball games due to mononucleosis and will probably miss more.

The Wildcats will be a young group with captain Gordon Slade as the only senior letterman returning. Slade is organizing
indoor workouts for bad weather sessions while Stevens is occupied with the swimming team. Along with the potent hitting of
Slade, the strength of the team may lie in the nucleus of a strong pitching staff. Wade Shepard, Mike Frye,
Marshall Case, and Rick Pipan all return from last season's starting rotation.

If Mills chooses to start Foster inside, the Spiders will open with Picot Frazier and John Welsh at guards. Frazier
is a constant outside threat and sports a 12.9 scoring average. Welsh has been a pleasant surprise for the Spiders.
The 6'4" sophomore has been a real hustler and will also see service at forward.

On Wednesday night, the Wildcats face one of their toughest challenges of the season when they face Duke at the
Charlotte Coliseum.

Main St. Davidson, N.C. Phone 892-1496

WESTERN AUTO

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

LUNCH BOX SPECIAL ONLY 89c
2 Pieces of Chicken
Potatoes & Gravy
Slaw & Rolls
COLONEL SANDERS’ RECIPE
Kentucky Fried Chicken
503 S. Broad
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 664-1505

Student Globe Roamers
Box 6575
Hollywood, Fla. 33021

ANSWER MAN BOB STONE
Once life insurance is purchased, are physical exams needed for additional policies? Yes, in most cases. However, Northwestern Mutual's “Additional
Purchase Benefit” (APB) enables policyowners at six separate times in their lives to acquire additional insurance without a physical examination.
If you are a young man, I’m sure you'll find APB of particular interest. I'd like to point out that
the six regular purchase dates are at ages 25, 28, 31, 34, 37, and 40. There’s more to the story.
For 90 days following marriage or the birth of a child, you may anticipate the next regular purchase date and
obtain additional insurance immediately without taking a physical examination. During these 90 days, the insurance under this privilege is automatically
in effect. For complete details on APB, as well as other NML advantages, call or write me. I will be
glad to help you with your life insurance planning.

Robert T. Stone
Rep
Phone 892-1424
The NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE Insurance Company

Introducing..... the elegant new PENTHOUSE COLLECTION by Sero. A “royal” grouping of London-inspired shirt stylings in a smashing range of
colors, patterns, collar, and cuff ideas. All exclusive with Sero in crisp durable press Kodel polyester and cotton. We have
the Penthouse Collection for you to see right now... along with an opportunity to win a LONDON HOLIDAY FOR TWO.
There are entry forms at our store for you to enter Sero’s London Sweepstakes. You'll fly aboard a fabulous BOAC
airliner, spend seven days and nights at the lavish LONDON HILTON, dine and dance nightly at the luxurious new PENTHOUSE
KEY CLUB, and enjoy London hit shows and sightseeing trips. Come Register. For The FREE TRIP For Two.

John Mack & Son
Mooresville, N.C.
