Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

BOB DUNHAM, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036.

PAGE TWO JANUARY 16, 1970

Rush Returns

It is extremely difficult to tabulate the total returns of this year’s fraternity rush at this time, for the normal
discontent over pledge programs has not yet had ample time to arise, but the overall picture of this year’s program
is a favorable one. In the final analysis of rush itself, it appears that there was an effort on the
part of fraternities to make their system work to the benefit of the freshmen. However, that analysis also reveals a
small number of individuals who remain excluded from the system. And in that sense, very little has changed.

Now is the time for action to be taken. While freshmen are still concerned about their classmates and independents and
fraternity men are still open to change, this is the time to initiate the long-awaited response to the cry for
a change in the system. Waiting to “let things cool off a bit” is not a workable approach. It is
time for the fraternities to reopen discussion on bidding procedures and the system’s nature in general. It is time for
the Interfraternity Council to initiate a joint program of social reform with the independents. It is time to maintain what
seems to be the current level of interest in finding a better program. It is not time to forget the
openness to change which made initial appearances during rush week. If there is a better system, now is the time
to find it.

Student Counsel

Dr. Meredith Hall will be an important new addition to our community. Davidson has long needed a professionally trained psychological
counselor who can devote his time to dealing directly with the emotional needs of the students and the faculty on
campus. Many other schools have already hired professional counselors, and it is good to see that Davidson is finally bringing
Dr. Hall here.

Dr. Hall is the right man for the job. He is a warm person, he is a competent professional, and
he is a valuable resource person. Hopefully, he will give valuable assistance to faculty advisors and hall counselors. He will
also be available to students on a personal, confidential basis. It is quite unfortunate, however, that Dr. Hall is being
hired on such a limited basis — only a few hours per week. We can certainly use such talents here
more than this. But even this much time is a good start. Meeting the personal and emotional needs of our
community is just as important as meeting academic needs. Moreover, it seems that academic progress cannot be made in a
meaningful way without personal progress.

The acquisition of the valuable talents of Dr. Hall is a progressive step in the development of the school, and
those responsible for bringing this man here are to be commended for their insight and thanked for their concern.

Lots And Lots

We would like to invite the college administration to join us on a tour of Davidson’s improvised parking lots at
the earliest possible time. The new lots have been in use since early fall, but they are becoming more and
more visible now that the snow is melting and the tire tracks are showing up. For the college to insist
that there is still no major parking problem is ridiculous. That tour of which we spoke would easily reveal the
seriousness of the shortage of available parking space. The students in search of parking have literally torn up the grassy
areas near Richardson Dorm; they have packed into “No Parking” areas; they have lined the roads. It looks like a
busy community college, jammed with commuting students’ cars. And there is no real reason why it should.

Late Bowl Thoughts

Someone in Orlando asked us after the Toledo game if we had lost our taste for tangerines. The joke wasn’t
particularly funny; the answer was simple. No. No one was embarrassed by the game (which, if you don’t read sports
pages, Toledo won 56-33), unless it be the Toledo supporters who predicted a shut-out. Slade was fantastic, and the Toledo
players were the first to admit it. The final three-touchdown victory was one touchdown less than oddsmakers had predicted, but
what no one had counted on was the comeback ability of Coach Homer Smith’s STP charges. The passing was brilliant.
The running was very admirable. The only thing lacking was a break or two, and perhaps some momentum in the
first half.

Unfortunately, and perhaps ironically, Davidson’s passing power turned on just as television power went out, and those who avoided the
Florida trip for the comfort of home missed one of the best efforts of the season. A vote of confidence
and thanks to the members of the 1969 Wildcats for their positive contribution to the Davidson experience.

New Left Disapproves

Encounter Groups: Hope Or Hell?

Sensitivity training as an aid or detriment to the individual, his education and occupational environment was evaluated recently by speakers
on the University of Santa Clara campus. The conference, “Encounter Groups: Hope or Hell,” was sponsored by the Center for
the Study of Contemporary Values under the direction of Dr. Stuart McLean, assistant professor of theology at Santa Clara.

Conference keynote speaker, Dr. William Schultz of the Esalen Institute in Big Sur, defined sensitivity training as a “tool in
social revolution of openness and honesty. The result will be a new way of relating to self and others.” He
traced the patterns of repressive behavior inculcated in the individual during childhood and the methods the encounter group employs to
counteract this conditioning. In enumerating the guidelines used in the sensitivity “session” he said, “participants are to be open, honest,
talk about the ‘now’ and express when possible physically what could have been expressed verbally.”

Chairman of the Santa Clara Psychology department, Dr. Roland Lowe, responded to Schultz with the deficiencies inherent in the encounter
group method. He questioned the qualifications of group leaders and asked for evidence to prove that sensitivity training does what
it claims. He also challenged the value of total honesty in relation to the importance of an individual's privacy and
added “coping with aloneness is a valuable part of maturity.”

The New Left’s position on sensitivity training was cited by former S.D.S. member, Mr. David Salsom, editor of the underground
Mid-Peninsular Observer. The encounter’s exclusive concern with individual problems in lieu of...

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Students Hit Independent Rush

To the Editor:

Before I get started into the text of my statement, let me give some background information. I am an Independent,
by choice (I did not participate in rush), and have spent maybe a total of 15 minutes inside fraternities in
my whole college career. Therefore, I have no special interests, and no axe to grind. This may lend somewhat more
weight to my statements.

Personally, I disapprove of the fraternity system strongly. But such an obscenity as the so-called “A Freshman's Guide to Rush”
cannot be ignored by anyone, whether fraternity or Independent. The statistics are fine, as is the excellent speech by Joe
Murphy. I find nothing objectionable in either of these. Where the obscenity comes in is the section entitled “A View
of the Twelve.” I have rarely seen such a biased misstatement of information. Take, for instance, the analysis of Sigma
Nu—and I quote “...this chapter of Sigma Nu has been involved in two of the most serious incidents of hazing—putting
one pledge in the hospital and leaving another on the floor of his room in convulsions. We will be glad
to fill you in on the gory details—they are available.” Right!! Go check the gory details—from a Sigma Nu. Surprise!!
They aren't so gory after all. Isn't that amazing? Could my fellow sanctimonious, Holier-than-Thou, self-righteous, egotistical Independents be wrong? Could
they have exaggerated somewhat? Yep, they sure could have. And did. I have been told by others that there are
yet more misstatements of fact in the booklet. I am sure there are. How about that, Hobbie and Company? Any
comments?

And then, there is the sickening attitude pervading this volume of the innate and God-given superiority of the Independents in
all things. The volume is almost condescending—almost, nothing—it is condescending! Since this is a family newspaper, I will quote the
Governor of Ga. (not, incidentally, that this is an endorsement of his politics) “Phooey!” That is a lot of bunk.
The difference is largely one of attitude; the self-righteousness of the writers of this section has no justification in fact.
Only in their minds.

I do not endorse the fraternity system, but I realize that it does perform a social function on this campus
of great value, in spite of its many defects. What...I am aiming for there to be tolerance on the part
of the Independents. Slander and confrontation with political issues were described by Ransom as the Left's basic objection to sensitivity
sessions. He found them a middle-class phenomenon and the openness policy described as fallacy-ridden. "Equals can be honest — unequals
cannot," he stated. The obligation of society to support the development of the individual "which it does not do" and
called it "a cruel hoax to say we can esteem social institutions."

Dr. Schultz refuted the futility of revising social institutions and cited the encounter as a means of effecting change. He
considers sensitivity training instrumental in clarifying the individual's image of his political self. "It avoids the projection of personal problems
on the political level and action for the sake of enhancing a liberal image," Schultz said. The chairman of the
Advisory Committee on Guides for Moral Instruction in California schools, Dr. Edwin Klotz, labeled sensitivity training "old-fashioned nihilism, a breakdown
in the individual's value system" and antithetical to individualism in its creation of dependency on a group. "It is a
source of rebellion destined to be controlled by the community."

Dr. Joseph Powers, professor of theology at the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, offered the following theological-ethical evaluation of sensitivity
training: Religious and encounter purposes are basically compatible. Both seek "to find freedom within a group and accept feelings as
an assistance in making free decisions." At present, "we still don't know the people we're educating and what we're educating
them for."

Our residence hall program is very similar to that proposed by the commission, and since I graduated three years ago,
I feel that I can realistically compare the two social systems. Our residence hall complex houses twelve hundred co-ed students
in nine buildings with living units ranging from suites for six students to floors with fifty students. Each living unit
has its own lounge, kitchenette, and study room in addition to large lounges, recreation rooms, television rooms, and laundry facilities
for each building. Student government in the halls sponsors an active program of social, cultural, athletic, and recreational activities. Each
living unit includes students from all classes and new students are randomly assigned in a manner which provides for a
balanced representation of various ages, races, nationalities, personality types, and interest groups.

The advantages of the fraternity system at Davidson are also available in our own residence hall program but without some
of the disadvantages. Both systems offer an opportunity to identify with a small group on the campus and to develop
close personal relationships within this group. Both systems provide for participation in social, cultural, athletic, and recreational activities and a
chance for individuals to develop leadership and organizational abilities through the government structure. I have found, however, that a more
broad-minded, tolerant attitude is developed when students are part of a group which contains a diverse cross-section of individuals rather
than a group such as a fraternity which tends to include people with the same general backgrounds. Also, in our
residence hall program, students who are socially less advanced than others when they first arrive have a chance to develop
social confidence without the stigma of rejection or exclusion. Finally, there seems to be less pressure to conform to certain
patterns of behavior and greater appreciation for a variety of interests, personality types, and activities in the residence hall system.

Although fraternities are still playing a necessary role on large campuses where people need a small group to identify with,
I feel that a strong, active residence hall program is the best system for a small campus such as Davidson.
Although I realize the problems inherent in changing something with as much tradition and emotion associated with it as the
present fraternity-dominated social system at Davidson, I hope the students, faculty, administration, and alumni can unite behind the recommendations of
the Committee on Social Patterns to develop the best possible system.

Paul Marien Jr. '67 Davidson College

To the Editor:

I was amazed at the decision of the college concerning next year's academic calendar. It would seem that a reasonable
uniformity would be maintained from year to year. Such changes from 1968-69 and 1969-70 procedure are inexplicable and, in two
specific occasions, based on inept forethought. First, the college's decision to begin the fall term more than a week earlier
than in the previous two years has taken everyone by surprise. I personally know of students who have already contracted
work for the summer through the projected date for the beginning of classes. Are these students to suffer the penalty
of cuts in all their classes until they are released from their jobs just because the college has decided we
are to start earlier than usual?

Secondly, the policy to begin the winter term before the Christmas break is bewildering. North Carolina State University has found
that a policy of dividing terms by the Christmas holiday so unsatisfactory that next year it will abandon the system.
And now our college officials have decided to recall this old idea. As the calendar is this year (and was
last year), the break divides the fall and winter terms, giving students an opportunity to work if necessary, or just
rest. I realize that perhaps the college is trying to substitute studying for the latter, but by doing so, they
restrict those who need money badly enough to do the former. It is ridiculous for me to think that the
calendar will be changed just because students are opposed to it. I do hope, though, that such opinions as the
ones I express will be considered when the 1971-72 calendar is planned.

A. W. Turner Jr. '72 Davidson College

To the Editor:

Even though mascots in general are just not my bag, I feel Davidson could be better represented than by the
silly-looking getup the current cat sports. I'll be glad to contribute $1.00 toward a redesign fund or if you don’t
find that feasible, you can use it to send the current cat to Eldine Powers.

Robert C. Rapp Jr. '48 Greensboro, N. C.
