REPLIES EVASIVE POW Alumnus’ Plight Uncertain

By DICK ANDERSON
Associate Editor

Davidson graduates have had varied post-commencement lives: one published a nudie magazine, one became Secretary of State, and one has been a prisoner of war for the past five years. Porter Halyburton, '63, married a Queens College co-ed and became a Navy pilot. While flying a reconnaissance mission over North Vietnam in October 1965, he was shot down.

“I received the first information that he was still alive in February 1967, a year and four months after he was shot down,” said his wife, Mrs. Marty Halyburton. Mrs. Halyburton is small and blonde and appears fragile, her eyebrows arching in a china-doll face. She has a five-year-old daughter named Dabney, whom her husband saw only shortly before he went with his ship to the Tonkin Gulf.

Davidson Student Sells Art Work To Museum

By JIM HANNA
Staff Writer

A Davidson artist, already prominent in campus art circles, has recently won critical acclaim with the purchase of one of his works by a Charlotte museum. Talented sophomore Ken Freed's piece entitled "Birth 4" was added to the permanent collection of the Mint Museum in Charlotte, where it will be shown, along with other new art recently acquired by the museum, starting Oct. 25.

"Birth 4," a charcoal piece, was among ten entries, out of 500 total works submitted, which were given “purchase awards” by the museum. Judging was done by an independent professional art critic. Freed's art is no stranger to Davidson students and faculty: “I had about twenty paintings in last year's student art show in Chambers,” said Ken. “Several of them were purchased." He will have a personal showing in the Chambers foyer sometime at the end of this month. Freed also painted the wall mural in the dining room of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house. Ken, who calls his work “abstract expressionist,” is currently working on a “series of paintings involved in abstract landscapes.” He presently works in acrylics, woodcuts, and “all kinds of drawing media.” His paintings, Ken says, “have evolved from when

(Staff Photo by Doty)
STUDENT ARTIST KEN FREED displays one of his other works.

Danforth Lecturer Will Deal With Conservation

John J. A. McLaughlin, an eminent oceanologist and ecologist, will deliver three lectures as a Danforth Visiting Lecturer next week. His presentations are “Conservation and Pollution” at 10 a.m. Monday and “The Ecology of the Future” at 10 a.m. Tuesday, both in the Morrison Room, and “Contemporary Conservation: The Marine and Fresh Water Environment” at 7:30 p.m. in Chambers 228.

McLaughlin is chairman of the Department of Biological Sciences and director of the Louis Calder Conservation and Ecology Center at Fordham University. He has received important research and facilities grants from the U.S. Public Health Service and the National Science Foundation and has written over 55 publications in marine phytoplanktology and ecology. The visiting lecture program is sponsored by the Danforth Foundation to assist colleges in strengthening liberal education. Each year several people of high intellectual stature from both the U.S. and abroad are made available to colleges through the program.I was younger—from impressionism to more abstract forms." They have had plenty of time and chance for evolution. Ken did his first oil painting at the age of 13; at 17 he was the youngest artist to ever have a personal exhibit at the Civic Art Center in his hometown of Battle Creek, Michigan. Ken's plans for the immediate future include exhibits at Southeastern Gallery of Contemporary Art in Winston-Salem, until the end of this month, and next spring at the Spring Art Contest and Show in Lancaster, S.C. He also hopes to have a painting in the North Carolina Annual Art Show in Raleigh in December and January, although he says that “it’s not a sure thing,” since the works to be shown are chosen by a judge, much the same as the Mint Museum competition.

October 23, 1970
Page Three

“One of the biggest things”—she would not say “worst” in describing her reaction to her husband's captivity—“is not knowing for so long whether he is well, not knowing anything about his condition.” Three letters have come from North Vietnam; short and bland, they tell only that he is well and ask about her and the daughter he barely knows. According to returned prisoners with whom Mrs. Halyburton has spoken, so much is all their captors allow the prisoners to write.

“I just sort of live each day at a time,” she explained, “because I have no idea when to expect him back.” Yet Mrs. Halyburton would not say much about how she felt. “I have a small child and hobbies to keep me busy.” Instead, she stressed the isolation and hardship which her husband undergoes. “The only medical treatment they get is what’s absolutely necessary to keep them alive,” she said of the prisoners. “Their diet is poor, and they’re constantly subject to mental and physical tortures.

“I’ve had a way to occupy my time, but Porter has had virtually nothing. He’s been deprived of everything.” One of the chief ways Mrs. Halyburton has occupied herself has been activity in the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia. “We got started a year and a half ago,” she said, “when President Nixon and Defense Secretary Laird gave us the go-ahead. Before it was felt that there might be repercussions against our husbands, but now that seems unlikely.”

Mrs. Halyburton said the group had two main purposes: to put pressure on the North Vietnamese to release the prisoners and to get them to observe the Geneva Convention on treatment of prisoners of war. “I came to Davidson to get students to write letters to the North Vietnamese government and negotiators in Paris, to show there was concern in this country about the prisoners,” she said. “This is a strictly humanitarian concern; we feel that it transcends the issue of the war.”

REMEMBER!
Eastern Standard Time returns Sunday, 24 at 2 a.m. Set your clocks back one hour.

Changing Clothes for the Changing Man
Come See All The New Ideas
Use Your Account Charge
John Mack & Son
Mooresville — 6 Miles North