Page Eight

Davidson. Terms

A REVIEW. By SCOTT DAVIDSON News Editor

Coleridge classed Ben Jonson’s “The Alchemist,” Sophocles’ “Oedipus Rex,” and Fielding’s “Tom Jones” as “the three most perfect plots ever planned.” In modern times, this perfection of plot has been one of “The Alchemist's” great assets in performance. Such is the case with Davidson's Drama Department production, their first of the season.

In “The Alchemist,” Ben Jonson satirized greed in its many forms and guises. We discover again that the themes of Elizabethan society are relevant to us in our contemporary perspective. There is the knight who wants gold, the clergy who want power, and the clerk who wants success in gambling.

Jonson manipulates his characters through the mechanisms of Subtle, the alchemist, and his two cohorts, Face and Dol Common. Subtle has set up his alchemy trade in a vacated house. He, Face, and Dol work together to intrigue, embezzle, and embroil the customers that appear in his house. Subtle and his crew suffer great discomfiture when the owner of the house returns unexpectedly. The manner in which Jonson turns the tables provides an amusing and satisfactory conclusion to the play.

November 6, 1970

Anthony Abbott, professor of English, and V. Cullum Rogers, senior English major, have edited “The Alchemist” for this production. Many topical references have been deleted, including references to the great London plague, which threatened the citizens of London the year “The Alchemist” opened.

What would Jonson himself have thought of this production? One must remember, as an aid to understanding Jonson, that he was the first Elizabethan dramatist to have the audacity to publish his own collected works within his lifetime—an unheard-of liberty. Jonson would, doubtless, be flattered at the presentation of such a competent production of his 360-year-old play. But he would have been disturbed by the inconsistencies of this interpretation.

The Drama Department has elected to update the period and locale but retain the 17th-century situations and language of Jonson. This conceit works to create an aura of incongruity that, at many instances, seems perfectly ludicrous. The inconsonant atmosphere pervades all aspects of the play, even down to the set, an Elizabethan interior, very effectively designed and constructed by Peter Latkin. But the walls of this early English interior are covered with an assortment of very current posters—the very same posters we've seen hanging in the Student Store for months! Also, the 17th-century period situations could not possibly exist in a contemporary setting. Their modern counterparts are very much with us today, so why not refashion the roles and situations to fit our current age, if such an emphasis on the contemporary is deemed necessary.

The primary circle of characters is extremely well cast. Cullum Rogers employs all the quirky mannerisms and expressions we've seen in previous performances to create a shrewdly delightful, conniving Subtle. If there were weak spots in the casting, they were not easy to notice.

LAST MINUTE INSTRUCTIONS: Drama Director Rupert T. Barber adds final touches to “The Alchemist.” (George Draughon), and Tribulation Wholesome (Ed Dobbs).and often hilarious portrait of Subtle.

10 p.m. Movie: “True Grit” Morrison Room

Saturday, November 7
Peter Lutkin, as Face, is excellent in a role that demands the portrayal of three different characters.

8:15 p.m. Drama Production: “The Alchemist” Hodson Hall
10 p.m. Movie: “True Grit” Morrison Room

Tuesday, November 10
10 a.m. Lecture: Dr. Robert J. Harris
12 p.m. Lunch Films
8:15 p.m. Piedmont Chamber Orchestra
8:30 p.m. Hungry d: The Argir Group

Wednesday, November 11
10 a.m. Piedmont Lecture: Dr. Robert J. Harris
12 p.m. Davidson College Wind Ensemble
2:30 p.m. Piedmont Lecture: Dr. Robert J. Harris
8:30 p.m. Hungry d: The Argir Group

Thursday, November 12
7:30 p.m. Movie: Group
10:15 p.m. Open End: Bill Iverson

Friday, November 13
All Day
10 a.m. Bill Iverson
7:30 p.m. Movie: Group

Saturday, November 14
All Day Sacred Music Convocation
7:30 p.m. Movie: “El Condor”
10 p.m. Hungry d: The Argir Group

Richard Petty
10 a.m. Speech: Dr. Cliff James
8:15 p.m. Organ Concert: David Craighead
10 p.m. Hungry d: The Argir Group

The supporting cast is also competent. One began to find himself eagerly awaiting the reentrance of such characters as Drugger.

Blood Donations Undergo Slump
By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

Almost one hundred fewer students gave blood this year than last year, according to Maj. Robert W. Garner of the ROTC Department, coordinator of the drive. He added that more than half of the contributors were students taking ROTC. Garner said that the drive, sponsored jointly by the Davidson College ROTC Department and the Charlotte chapter of the American International Red Cross, collected 211 pints of blood, compared with approximately 390 collected in the last drive.

The only possible criticism of the acting that I could register is the difficulty I, as well as other members of the audience at Wednesday night's performance, experienced in hearing during the first few minutes of the first scene. A mad, carefully choreographed battle takes place between Subtle, Face, and Dol in the opening scene. The dialogue that follows maintains the frenzied pace of the fight, to the audience’s loss. The play seems to have been directed with an effort to squeeze the most hilarity from real situations.

If you don't see “The Alchemist” this weekend, you will be slighting yourself, for it is a superb play that is being very well performed. My only regret is that the powers that be did not permit Jonson to stand alone on his own merits, as they did so successfully last season with Shakespeare. “The Alchemist” continues running tonight and Saturday evening at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall.