Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
JACK WELLMAN, Business Manager

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

PAGE TWO MARCH 6, 1970

On Our Own

For those students who delight in following the machinations of the Davidson bureaucracy, the administration has offered up a real gem in their actions concerning the proposal that would allow the students to vote on 24-hour open dorms.

According to the constitution of the Residence Hall Association, a move to make such a major rules change must be approved by the Student Life Committee (SLC) and once such approval is given, the Residence Hall Council (RHC) can act to implement the change. However, this power is subject to one major qualification. According to the constitution, the rules changes must be approved by the faculty and trustees if the new rules would be in conflict with established faculty or trustee policy.

Thus, while the RHC took its ideas to the SLC last week hoping to get permission to allow students to vote on the liberalized open dorms, they found themselves thwarted by the above qualification. President Spencer, letting his opinions on the subject of 24-hour visitation be known, influenced the committee to move that the proposal be passed on to the faculty.

That there would be some doubt about this move must have crossed the minds of the members of the SLC. In the minutes of their last meeting, there is a specific reference to “the press” asking that two of the committee members explain to “the press” the necessity of sending the proposal to the faculty.

However, we retain our reservations on this subject. Just what are the areas of conflict between the student proposal and the established policies of the faculty and trustees? It would seem to us that the general thrust of the Code of Responsibility was and is toward allowing students to determine their own policies. Surely the proposal is along those lines. It also seems that the Code was designed to allow and to help the students to mature by giving them greater powers to determine their own positions here at Davidson. Surely the proposal is along these lines. It further seems that the major point of the Code is to accept the students as responsible for their own actions. And certainly the liberalized dorms proposal would be trusting in the responsibility of the individual student. So where are the areas of conflict?

Admittedly, there is some highly specific conflict in that the Trustees approved only 12-hour open dorms in their original action. However, they did approve open dorms in principle. The whole conflict seems to boil down to two questions. One concerns administrative constitutional prerogative, but the greatest issue is over the correct interpretation of the Code.

Dr. Spencer has expressed the opinion that one of the major points in the Code can be seen in the following statement, “The Code of Responsibility... also recognizes... the individual's involvement in and responsibility for the corporate well-being of the college community.” And he is right to say that the Code places significant emphasis on student responsibility for the whole community. But we do not see the RHC proposal as an attack on this responsibility to the college as a whole. Rather, we would like to submit that the major emphasis in the Code can be found in such statements as, “Responsible maturity is more likely to develop when a member of the college community is both free and obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to accept full responsibility for his own actions and decisions.”

But the Code is obviously open to these two interpretations and is unclear as to the relative importance of each. It may be that the move of the RHC to test the constitutionality of the SLC action will serve only to obfuscate an already muddled picture. Perhaps what is more needed is an expression on the part of the students to the faculty as to how they interpret the Code and its implementation. Such an expression might allow future changes to occur with more openness and less administrative backstage lobbying.

The Last Quip

Quips & Cranks is slipping slowly into oblivion. Although this has only become evident recently when no one put his name in nomination for the editorship, the slide has been in progress for some time. Recent editors have had difficulty obtaining staff members and have had to bear the brunt of the work of publishing the book. Students have been uncooperative in submitting pictures, making it necessary for the editor to spend much time running down routine shots rather than planning new approaches.

The absence of an editor presents an opportunity to analyze the desirability of continuing the Quips & Cranks without having to contest with a vested interest. It is our opinion that the Quips & Cranks has become a tradition in which students have little interest in perpetuating, either in its present form or in some novel one. Quips & Cranks does not fill its ascribed role as a record of the year because most of the book is made up by the end of the first term and the rest is completed by February. Neither is it a commentary on the year or a complete catalog of achievement for the same reason.

In light of these facts, it might be best if the Quips & Cranks died with this spring's issue. If students are not willing to cooperate with those who publish it and if no one can be found to publish it, perhaps Davidson does not need an annual at all. It is unlikely that the demise of the yearbook will stir any more than the usual disgruntled reaction that accompanies the cessation of any service to which people are fundamentally indifferent.

Unhappy New Year

On last Monday, the Faculty Executive Committee rejected the final appeal of students who wished to change the calendar which had been announced for the 1970-1971 academic year. The schedule which will be in effect is the one previously announced in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Under that calendar, exams will be held when the students return from Thanksgiving break.

In an effort to discern student opinion of the published calendar, the SGA held a referendum which indicated two general student attitudes. First, the plebiscite showed general displeasure with the published schedule. Second, the vote showed that many of the students would favor a similar schedule but with exams held before Thanksgiving.

Unfortunately, the Faculty Executive Committee felt it could not change the proposed calendar because of the late date for the proposed changes (even though the referendum was held over a month ago). Also, the committee said it would be impossible to hold exams before Thanksgiving because it would conflict with part of the football schedule that had already been drawn up. We regret that the vast power of such a minority vested interest as football will be part of the cause of an inconvenience to the student body.

In light of the problems and dissatisfactions that have come out of the calendar proposal this year, we applaud the desire of the Faculty Executive Committee to adopt a calendar for the 1971-1972 school year before the end of the present session. We also applaud the committee’s decision to hold an open meeting on the calendar question, and we urge students to attend. Only in this manner can student desires be taken properly into consideration when the 1971-1972 calendar is put together.

With regard to student preferences, the three major opinions about an ideal calendar cannot be satisfied simultaneously simply because of time limitations between January and June. These three student desires seem to be: no split winter term, at least a week for spring break, and the ending of school by the first of June.

The advent of self-scheduled exams might alleviate the problem. It might not. What seems to be needed is an expression of priorities by both students and faculty. A clear idea of majority opinion would allow the Faculty Executive Committee to forge a calendar which would be the best possible for the most people.

“Any More Questions?”

Impact Of Social Changes Not Good For Lindenwood (I.P.)

“Today’s college community cannot abandon itself to drift with the tide of social change,” writes Dr. John Anthony Brown, president of The Lindenwood Colleges, in a position paper distributed recently. The paper was written in response to a student request for intervisitation privileges in student rooms in both the men’s and women’s residence halls. After a month-long study of the issues involved, the women's student government withdrew their request. The men’s proposal was turned down by the administration in the four-page position paper prepared byPresident Brown,

The following are excerpts unparalleled in recent history. We cannot pretend that what we do on this campus is our own affair, unless we are to abandon all claims to relevance.

“We now reach the most important stage of our review of this issue. The right decision can only be the one which relates positively to the mission of The Lindenwood Colleges. What are we supposed to be doing in these times? What is a relevant academic and social milieu in the 1970s?

“The birth-control pill, in the absence of other restraints, does not free the young, unmarried woman but enslaves her to a relationship which should be responsible first to affection rather than physical desire. The freedom to do ‘one’s own thing’ creates an infinity of choice quite beyond the ability of many people. They stop deciding what to do and do the popular, the ‘in’ thing. They are caught by what Erich Fromm long ago called ‘the ambiguity of freedom.’

“It stacks the cards in favor of the so-called ‘new morality.’ The impact of the moral drift in our times is part of our concern as a college which involves its students in realities. We see the institution of a policy for intervisitation at this time, at either college, as abandonment to the drift itself.

“We choose, therefore, to maintain the privacy of dormitory rooms. We ask those students who have chosen to study with us to enter into the intellectual and social life of The Lindenwood Colleges in such a way that they may find their direction in these changing times.”

ROBERT PUGATT

Caretakers Of Dark Old Men

The government of these United States is in one respect far more akin to Western, more Chinese than American. It is the way in which it venerates age on the part of its members in the Congress. The representative legislative assembly of this country is more of a gerontocracy than an example of a democratic body in action. Age and seniority give it the tone of a rest home more than a vital center of debate. The spectacle of doddering old gents like Carl Hayden of Arizona, for many years president pro tem of the Senate and high in line of presidential succession, makes one wonder if the two parties recruit their candidates from hospital geriatric wards. And the list of committee chairmen in Congress makes it look as if they were chosen on the basis of infirmity and incipient senility rather than on the basis of ability.

The good old seniority system, which the founding fathers had the good sense not to write into the Constitution and probably never expected to develop, has come to be one of the most important factors in the working of the whole government and of the democracy itself. One man-one vote is a myth. Power in Congress rests on seniority, and seniority belongs to the old fellows who come from backwoods America, the economic and political backwaters of the country. They come from the safe districts and out-of-touch constituencies which return them election after election. These constituencies, the most far removed from reality in the country, have by far the most power and influence on what legislation goes through Congress.

The old men in Congress who come from Charleston or Mississippi or North Carolina have little or no responsibility to the national party platform, because their constituents will return them all the more cheerfully if they ignore the party platform and remain as reactionary as possible. Strict party discipline is not desirable, but strict party responsibility is. And the responsibility of a party to the public is impossible to maintain when the most powerful members of that party in Congress can do as they please. The old goats ought to be removed from power and the seniority system done away with. The seniority system and the politically and culturally remote districts do the most damage in making the government unresponsive to the popular will. The government lives in a little American Dream of its own, set apart from reality. The government has a lot of built-in safeguards to keep it responsive, the electoral processes, an opposition party, vociferous press, disgruntled intellectual community, and plenty of insipid public opinion polls. But, all these lapse into impotence in the face of the seniority system. The time has come for power in Congress to be allocated on the basis of ability, party responsibility, and popular support rather than age and years in office. And we should put the more useless old codgers to playing shuffleboard and talking about the good old days rather than running the Congress.

Pledge Classes Make The Grade

(I.P.) — National scholarship commissioner of his own social fraternity, Delta Sigma Phi, Associate Dean of Students Paul McQuilken of DePauw University has completed a study to find out what makes the difference between strong, mediocre, and weak fraternities, academically. Dr. McQuilken set out to find out why freshmen pledge fraternities, how freshmen evaluated fraternities before and after 10 weeks, how the pledge spent his time for 70 consecutive days, and how the fraternity experience affected the pledge classes’ grades.

Dr. McQuilken says he thinks and hopes fraternities will flourish. He pointed out that since 1940 the number of chapters has more than doubled. Over 400 institutions have invited fraternities and sororities to establish chapters on their campuses in the last six years. From 1962 to 1967 an average of 80 new chapters has been started per year.

Probably his most startling conclusion was that there is little apparent significance between how much time a pledge class spends studying and how high its grades are. (The average freshman pledge class spent 52.7 hours per week and spent 52.4 hours per week in class or in study, according to his report.) The research that required some 100,000 IBM cards revealed these significant signposts about the health of the fraternity system:

1. After 10 weeks pledges did not feel their chapter was as concerned about them as they initially thought they were.
2. Fraternities do not seem to extract undue amounts of time to fulfill pledge obligations.
3. Pledges in general seemed to be more dissatisfied with their physical study environment than with the total academic atmosphere in the fraternity.
4. Rushes asked more penetrating questions about fraternities than ever before and were unwilling to be hurried into pledge decisions.
5. To be of maximum appeal fraternities may have to give strong consideration to developing programs for small interest groups.
6. A large majority of pledges felt there was a need to narrow the gap between what a fraternity ideally says it is and what it actually is.
7. Freshman pledges want to interact with people who are friendly, interesting, loyal, and intelligent and who do not create artificial barriers based solely on years in school.

“If fraternities are to survive and be relevant they must contribute to the educational purposes of the institution,” he concluded.

SIX POEMS

TO SHELLEY

Winter

I
A brown flutter becomes a sparrow
Blinking, turning; he glances—
Still, I watch him
Through dried paint splotches on the glass top.
I see him (speckled, white on brown)
Choose then grip a seed.
He cracks the shell in half;
The chaff falls to dry earth.
A flutter becomes a brown line
To an oak branch.
Watching from my picture window,
Warm air from the heating duct
Blasts me from my dream.

II
Larger blackbirds, which the feeder bars,
Peck cold ground for stray bread crumbs.

III
Fat ridges of white fur,
A squirrel, hunched,
Stares through the window with black eyes,
Nibbling on an acorn.

IV
Nesting season in the garage attic,
A wing is wedged between roof boards
A ball of angry feathers fights my grasp
A beak pecks at my gloved hand.
Regaining my balance, I climb down the ladder—
I have broken his wing,
The sparrow contorted as a newborn—emerging.
Returning to that place, I stand
On a stump
Where once a white oak stood
And I look
At that limp body
Which an hour ago fought to avoid me.

V
A flock of blackbirds in budding oak trees
Rain.

VI
A squirrel skeletal
With bulging eyes
At the roots of his tree—
A feast.

—DON PLOGER