The Bavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” — Marshall McLuhan

BO SHOAF, Editor
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR DECEMBER 11, 1970

Fraternities Kicking

One of the most widely recognized evils of the old fraternity system was the institution by which it renewed itself every year, namely, rush. Unfortunately, the new rush, the informal rush, “rush 1970” is no different.

The old rush was nefarious by virtue of its method. It seems hard to believe, but even as late as last year fraternities really did involve themselves in desperate efforts to out-stud each other. No matter how hard the fraternities may deny it, talk of brotherhood always entered the rush parties at some time. As if the hypocritical facade of the parties was not enough, the “brothers” then subjected themselves each night to several hours of cutthroat struggles known to the outside as balling sessions.

This year we are told things are different. Sponsors down at the SPE house stress the informality of the be seg. They assure us that bidding procedures will be different. The president of the freshman class, displaying his expertise, only refers to “rush” within quotation marks as if it really were something different this year.

Unfortunately, the new rush only superficially looks different from previous rushes. It is still, pur the time-honored (or should we say archaic?) object of insuring the self-perpetuation of the fraternity system.

Before any freshman accepts a bid to join a national fraternity we hope he will seriously consider the possibility of accepting no bid at all. Perhaps it would be best if the freshmen reconsider the Report of the Blue Sky Subcommittee on Student Life (from 1967), the Report of the Social Patterns Study Commission (majority report submitted in 1969), and the Student Life Section of the Report of the Academy for Educational Development (also from 1969). These reports as summarized in the Student Life Committee recommendations of June 1970 call for the elimination of the fraternity system.

It is true that the report of the “Committee of 18” allows for the continued existence of national fraternities at Davidson provided they eliminate selective membership requirements. However, it is time for the student of 1970 to decide whether the national fraternity is a necessary or even desirable adjunct to a social existence. Is the mystic word, secret grip, or high initiation fee vital to a sense of community? While this year’s rush will supposedly prolong the lives of Davidson’s national fraternities, perhaps it would be more realistic to say that it is only prolonging the process of their deaths.

Innocent Abroad

As a part of the incredible administrative shuffle and creation of new positions which began early in the fall term, the last week before Thanksgiving saw three further staff changes.

Actually, the move was very slick indeed. President Spencer announced the changes from a distance of several thousand miles during a week in which students were already preoccupied with the impending holiday and exam periods. Yet perhaps the move was just a bit too slick. For one thing, students played only a passive role in the changes, learning of them as they were announced. Not even in the selection of a new dean of students did they have a voice, although students had been allowed participation in the selection of President Spencer two years ago.

In an equally unfortunate situation, there is real evidence that the faculty were not properly consulted in these major administrative changes. According to some sources, such a lack of confidence violated properly established procedure. While none of this argument is meant to condemn the changes or the men involved, it cannot be assumed with absolute certainty that the changes would have occurred exactly as they did had more consultation been allowed.

We urge the committee now studying governance to establish procedures which would properly avoid such problems.

Activists A Disappointment

Now to humiliate these activists, I thought, when word came from on high that a column of my own was in the offing. Oh, to stick them with barbs of Right Reason; what fun. Gotcha Burney, etc. Tantalized by the possibilities, I kept close by my typewriter and waited. And waited. And waited. I have now waited for an entire ten-week term for the big issue to arise, as have, I suppose, those members of this community who can muster the energy to follow the activities of the student government. All of us have been disappointed. Thanks to the senate, we now have self-scheduled exams; but that has been discussed for several years. Not exactly an epic political victory.

Thanks to the RHC; its leadership in particular, we now know that we should not throw firecrackers in the dorms and that we should seek positive, creative relationships rather than negative, destructive ones. Besides this earthshaking piece of information, little activity of any kind can be seen developing in the RHC.

A look at the roles of the SGA legislative organizations reveals that a sizeable number of students represent their peers in these august bodies. Yet little or nothing is being done. All of this suggests that: (1) The members of the sen-ate, and RHC cannot, at present, conceive of any substantive action to improve the life of the college, (2) there is nothing wrong with the college, (3) the SGA leadership finds meetings a bore, and so has called as few as possible, (4) all of the above. Whatever the case is, one thing is certain: we have too much government at present. Why a campus this size should have two governing organizations is a mystery. The leadership of the college is apparently mystified as well, for it has established a Committee on Campus Governance to review, among other things, the senate and RHC. Whether any student legislature exists after the committee returns its findings is questionable. If it is decided that effective campus governance includes such a body, it is hard to see why more than one is necessary, and why that organization should include more than fifteen members. By reducing the number of student representatives drastically, student politics and government would both profit. Student office would be more sought after in that they would be much more powerful. It is even possible that the new prestige of student offices would lead to energetic campaigns to attain them based on substance.

SMITH

Unless I miss my guess, the report of the Committee on Campus Governance will result in a total reform of the present SGA set-up. This process will probably not be a swift one in that it will involve numerous meetings, reports, a constitutional convention (probably), and other obstacles yet to be discovered. It behooves all those interested in the college to follow the process closely and to participate actively, when possible. Until the eschaton arrives, however, the student legislatures will be in need of problems to solve. May I suggest the revival of the proposition that what the Davidson College student body needs most is more and better vending machines.

DICK ANDERSON

Numbers

Football is just a numbers game. There are won-lost records, yardage totals, scores, averages, and retired jerseys. When I was in junior high school, we even had a game for boring classes in which won-lost records were determined solely by random number selection. Some football numbers—by far the largest ones—are prefixed by dollar signs. Most of these have six or seven figures, which is more than O. J. gained, even in inches. My fellow columnist Paul Rowland (rue though I may that status) added up Davidson football numbers (the large ones, not two-and-eight, 16 or 2,100-plus) and came out with a negative sum, from which he derived his thumbs-down on the Wildcat gladiators. I can hardly quarrel with Paul's figures, but, in the interest of better relations between THE DAVIDSONIAN and the campus mesomorphs, I will disagree with his conclusion.

Paul claims we spend too much money at Davidson on an activity which brings no positive benefit to the college and indeed impedes support of more worthwhile academic endeavors. Admittedly a team which wins only two games is not a major factor in college life, the way a big winner could be (and is in basketball). But I think nonetheless that the program in fact does make real contributions to the college. Senior Frank Rader, who plays offensive guard and may justly be singled out for the tremendous effort he puts into the game, has said that the real benefit of Davidson’s football program is in the people whom it brings to the college, who could not have come without the chance to play football here. Rader also submits that the football players provide a link between Davidson intellectuality and the characteristics of the world outside the campus; since according to him they more nearly resemble the non-college population than do the academically oriented.

Davidson is designed (perhaps not very well) to foster precisely this intellectual approach, not to represent the attitudes of the populace as a whole. However, about half of the Davidson student body participates in one or another inter-collegiate sport. Since these sports invariably require an expenditure of time and energy, they apparently provide something for participants which other college activities do not provide. And since an undergraduate college such as Davidson exists only in the interests of its students (at least it ought not exist for the sake of employment opportunities for paper-shufflers), it is a proper function of the college to support activities which are meaningful to its students. There is no reason to discriminate against football. Admittedly football is much more expensive than most other sports. But if the college is to support an inter-collegiate program, then it ought to give the participants the chance to compete meaningfully. Under present conditions, it is impossible for a football team to compete at the major college level without subsidization. This statement is not true of soccer, nor is it true of wrestling or of the rifle team. But it is true of basketball and football, and therefore if the college can find the money, it properly ought to subsidize these sports to a far greater degree than it does others, whether directly or through an alumni fund arrangement such as the present one.