Page Six, January 23, 1970

The David smitian outa, ‘The Reivers’ Embodies The Best U.S. Film Art

A REVIEW By DON HOYT

Fashionable Americans hold tenaciously to two unfortunate beliefs: 1) the only good film is a European film, and 2) any film from Czechoslovakia is, simply by being Czech, great. Even established critics contradict these firmly entrenched theories only when prepared for mortal combat, and then with fear and trembling. In times of the “new,” the “daring,” and the “unusual,” critics are frequently cowed into silence; for the creators of the bad and the indifferent never tire of pointing out that Beethoven, Tschaikovsky, and all of the Impressionists were excoriated in their time by ignorant men who did not understand what they heard and saw.

Modern critics discover themselves in the situation posed by Anderson's fairy tale, “The Emperor's New Clothes”: they are all afraid to say that the emperor is naked. Nevertheless, someone, like the little boy in Anderson's story, must risk pointing out that the emperor doesn’t have any clothes on, or we will be committing the worst sin of all: in fear of being considered gauche, old-fashioned, and square, we will allow the purveyors of the inane, the inept, and the shoddy to pass off their trash as art.

Any damn fool can buy a movie camera, put some film in it, expose and develop the film, and claim he’s created a masterpiece. This is his prerogative. We cannot be irritated, however, when this fresh-ripened genius implies that our lack of appreciation for his new masterwork is due to our inadequate knowledge, inadequate experience, and our inadequate taste.

There is something wrong with this situation when the audience is expected to communicate with the artist, rather than the artist with the audience. When, after attempting to enter into the spirit of “Martyrs of Love” and “Apprenticeship,” attempting to appreciate them on their own terms, we still find them terrible, we should not hesitate to pronounce them unadulterated Czechoslovakian ordure. These two films, from this week's New Line Cinema program, deal devastating blows to the idea of unfailing Czech magnificence since both are Czech and both are excruciatingly bad. What more can be said?

“The Reivers” should kill for once and for all the belief in a European monopoly of cinematic excellence. For “The Reivers” is American, in everything from Steve McQueen's “Imagine me, a white man, having to drive a nigger all the way to Memphis!” to the score, which combines the best of Aaron Copland, Flatt and Scruggs, and Dixieland. If the producers of “The Reivers” wanted to be crass they could advertise their film with the slogan: “Three men went in search of America, and found it right where it had always been.”

Indeed, “The Reivers” has its foundation in traditional American pieties. Boss, the God-like, white-haired grandfather gives 11-year-old Lucius this advice: “I know you are sometimes afraid to sleep by yourself. Don’t be; trust in the Lord. He's up all night.” Lucius, however, falls under the spell of Boon Hogenbeck (played by McQueen), who knows that “the rewards of virtue, which are cold, odorless, and tasteless, are not to be compared with the bright and exciting pleasures of sin and wrongdoing.” They set off in Boss’ new automobile, a 1904 Winton Flyer, toward Memphis and, eventually, the most stunning horse race sequence in film history. These 85 seconds, which are the climax of the movie, give us a close-up in time; we see the play of the horses’ muscles as they gallop around the track seeming for all the world like dancers in an exquisitely choreographed ballet. We feel the joy and exultation of the riders as they glory in their exertion and the whole is captured forever in a timeless world.

A great deal of the credit for “The Reivers” goes to Faulkner for originating the story, and to Irving Ravetch for adapting Faulkner to the screen, but the greatest praise must be reserved for Mark Rydell, who did an expert job of directing, and Rupert Crosse, who played Ned, an outrageously funny character and, at the same time, that cinematic rarity: a black man with the human warmth that makes him more than just black.

“The Reivers” is a product of perfectly coordinated acting and direction, photography and editing, screenwriting and composing. It exemplifies the best of American filmmaking, and our best is not to be surpassed.

One of the most active students at Davidson College is not really a student at all. Although he attends classes, attends athletic contests, and does other things which students normally do, George Goudy cannot be rightly termed a student. Goudy is a man of retirement age, and thus he is set apart, but he is anything but retiring. With a tremendous amount of energy, he has an academic schedule as tough as any (it includes both freshman and sophomore humanities), and he is no slouch when it comes to extracurricular activities. He and his wife can be seen at virtually every basketball game, every football...

Policy (Continued From Page 1)

sity and Dr. William C. Olson of the Rockefeller Foundation, both of whom will participate in the symposium.” Salyer pointed out that a broad spectrum of opinion will be represented in the symposium. “Although I would be hesitant to type our visitors,” he said, “I would say that their positions range from ‘liberal’ to ‘traditional.’ The presence of two students, Dave Sweatt and Joe Kilpatrick, on the program will also add to the range of opinion presented.”

“The format of the symposium will be rather informal,” Salyer noted. “The programs on both evenings will begin with talks by the participants, most of which will be given from notes rather than from prepared texts. A short coffee break will follow the talks. There will then be a period for give and take among the panel members and the audience. This will be especially important on the second night when the discussion will attempt to summarize the issues which have been raised on that night and the night before. This format offers the college community an opportunity for stimulating discussion with experts on a very important topic; I hope they will take full advantage of it.”

Salyer noted that the Union Board is the principal source of revenue for the symposium, other sources being the Activities Grant Foundation and the college's speaker fund. “I think that the Union’s contribution is very important,” said Salyer, “in that it is the first donation of this size which the Board has ever granted to a non-social function, to my knowledge.”

Lown (Continued From Page 1)

rather it is...The recognition that change is inevitable and that change should be controlled, and thereby directed toward favorable rather than unfavorable results.” It plans to work through existing town agencies, and to “avail itself of existing plans and studies.” No authority is held by the group, as such, according to Spencer, but it does “have the approval of the Town Council to make its studies and submit proposals to the various agencies in the town government and the town Planning Board. ‘Talking has been the main thing, up to now,” Spencer added. “The next step is to have a serious study by competent people who can tell us about the economics of the situation, the type of development that might be possible, and that sort of thing. The committee has been in touch with a number of companies who might make this feasibility study.” “The basic idea is that the community is certain to grow and we must therefore plan for this change; entering into it unprepared.” instead of (Staff Photo by Thomas)

AND, HUMANITIES IN MY SPARE TIME

Mr. George Goudy leads his Wednesday Bible Class.

Retiree Assumes Role As Students’ Associate

By BOB DUNHAM
Editor-in-Chief

The Goudys are constantly involved “in the work of making students feel more at ease at Davidson, whether it be through conversation or home-cooked meals. They came to Davidson several years ago with that purpose well in mind. Originally from New Jersey, they had sent their son to Davidson years ago, and they came to be with the students.

In a time when the barrier between youth and the over-30 group is at a relative high, the Goudys are trying to increase communication and understanding. Results indicate that they have enjoyed success in that undertaking. They count a large number of close acquaintances in the Davidson student body, acquaintances made largely through the Goudys’ initiative. Each student who spends an evening with the couple is in turn asked the names of other students, and thus the chain of students is perpetuated.

George Goudy has accomplished something in the past year which few persons would ever have thought possible, the formation and maintenance of a weeknight Bible discussion on campus. The response, according to Goudy, has been quite favorable, and it has given him an extra opportunity to establish contact with students. “I've been quite pleased with the turnout,” he said. “Recently we've had a dozen to 15 students attending each week.”

Quite active in the life of the church, Goudy has maintained a working knowledge of Biblical thought as well as a thriving interest in the social concern of the world. He and his wife have innumerable accounts of experiences through church work, and are well acquainted with a number of prominent clergymen and seminarians. Goudy came to Davidson agreeing to operate a small religious bookstore on Main Street, but he has realized the fact that it is their home and not the store which is the center of their activity.

CHARLOTTE’S NO. 1
M. F. HOLDING CO.
200 Independence South Ave.
Belts, Unisex, Body Shirts
Bell Bottoms, Leather & Incense

TOWN & COUNTRY RESTAURANT
(Formerly Elk's Restaurant)
STEAKS & SEAFOOD
West Wilson at 21 By-Pass
Mooresville, N. C.

Alumnus Seigler Examines Foreign Development Policy

By STEVE ROADY
Staff Writer

Bill Seigler, a 1968 Davidson graduate presently attending the John Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies, has recently helped to create the Youth Task Force for International Development.

The Youth Task Force was formed by a group of students in the Washington area who are concerned about the present trends in United States development policies, which they think are leading to a sort of isolationism. Co-chairman Seigler sees the Task Force as a parallel to the Presidentially created Peterson Task Force on International Development, which is scheduled to report to the President in March.

Stating that “much of the young people's talent today is being directed inward, and we'd like to direct it outward,” Seigler cited several goals for the Task Force: First, to stimulate interest among young people in development; Second, to provide an avenue through which they can voice their concern; Third, to become a factor in United States development policy-making.

The Youth Task Force is pursuing two courses of action in attempting to reach its goals. The students in Washington who make up the core of the Task Force are conducting an intensive study of United States development policies, and interested students from across the nation have been asked to submit essays on a number of selected development topics. The authors of at least fifty of the best essays will be invited to Washington to participate in the International Development Conference to be held February 24-26.

Seigler says that the Task Force has received the enthusiastic support of many in the Agency for International Development (AID), as well as from Robert McNamara, present head of the World Bank, Senators Javits, McGovern, and Ribicoff, and numerous Congressmen. He is quite hopeful that the recommendations made by the Task Force will be incorporated into future United States international development planning.

OPEN HOUSE

The following homes will be open Sunday evening at 8:
119 Lorimer Road
412 Concord Road
203 Lorimer Road
552 Lorimer Road

Yearbook Problem Studied

The Publications Board is in the process of re-assessing its by-laws in order to alleviate the problem caused by the lack of qualified persons available to edit next year's Quips and Cranks. The problem arose when no rising seniors signed up for the election. By-laws require that the editor be a senior. The board will meet again next week to consider the problem.

SGA To Hold Referendum Tuesday To Determine Opinion On Calendar

A student referendum on the proposed academic calendar for 1970-71 will be included on Tuesday’s ballot to test student opinion on the calendar, according to SGA President-elect Ran Coble.

The referendum will poll student preference on three plans: the current schedule, the new calendar, and a third proposed calendar which makes a single change in the new calendar, shortening the Christmas break by one week.

“The alternative plan was suggested so that we could find out how many students are interested in finishing the spring term earlier for summer jobs’ sake,” Coble said. “It has one disadvantage, though, in that winter term exams fall during the Southern Conference (basketball) tournament.”

The new faculty calendar was printed in the Jan. 9 DAVIDSONIAN. Coble said that a number of students had voiced displeasure over the calendar proposed by the academic scheduling committee and adopted by the faculty.

“The fact that we are holding the referendum does not mean that the new calendar will be changed,” Coble said, “but we are interested in sampling student opinion on the matter.”

The new calendar contains such innovations as fall term exams the week after Thanksgiving, two weeks of winter term work prior to the Christmas holidays, continuation of that term on Jan. 11, and spring exams in June.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St.
Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-4496

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

ENGLAND, FRANCE, HOLLAND, AUSTRIA and ITALY
An unforgettable experience
Completely organized
Wake Forest Students
10 A. M.-4 P. M. Monday, Jan. 26 ONLY

FINE GRAPHICS AT MODERATE PRICES
OLD MASTERS AND CONTEMPORARY ARTISTS
CUNNINGHAM FINE ARTS BUILDING
PRESENTED BY LAKESIDE STUDIO