HOYT REVIEWS ‘THE REIVERS’ (See Page Three). Published Weekly By Davidson College Students LIX DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, JANUARY 23, 1970 NUMBER THIRTEEN

Betas Sponsor Rep. Lowenstein

As a part of the Beta Lecture Series, sponsored by the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, Rep. Allard K. Lowenstein of New York will speak in Love Auditorium next Thursday night.

Lowenstein is a graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and of Yale Law School. He then taught international law at Stanford and political science at North Carolina State and City College of New York.

Lowenstein was elected to the House of Representatives in 1968 as a Democrat from the 5th District in Long Island, New York. The district had long been a Republican stronghold.

Speaking in Raleigh last spring, Lowenstein said, “Violence is totally unacceptable. We must work within the system.” Acting on this assumption, he has appeared before the United Nations to plead the case of nonwhites in the Mandate of South West Africa. Lowenstein has also written a book on the subject, entitled “Brutal Mandate.”

Asked about his political philosophy, Lowenstein once said, “I think of myself as a liberal. You're not told by anyone how to stand on issues; you find your own truths, if you can.” Lowenstein found his by serving on the staffs of former Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey and former North Carolina Sen. Frank Graham. He is also a past President of the National Students Association, a past director of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and a past President of the National Youth Organization for Adlai Stevenson.

Drug Case Conviction Sustained

The Davidson College Court of Appeals has sustained the conviction of a Davidson student for selling hallucinatory drugs in violation of the Code of Responsibility. The student has been found guilty on the charge by the college Regulations Court last December 12th. The Court of Appeals sustained the guilty verdict as well as the sentence of two years’ suspension from school.

According to the defense advisor, the case will now be appealed to the Board of Trustees, which will hold its next regular meeting on the campus February 3 and 4. College officials, including President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston, and Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr., refused comment on the case.

By JEFF ALLENDER Staff Writer

In order to plan more effectively the future of the Davidson community, a group of men from the town and College have formed a Committee to study the effects of the growing Charlotte region.

In the summer of 1968, some interested citizens started holding discussions about the future of Davidson. They saw that “due to its location within the greater Charlotte area, the Town of Davidson will become progressively more subject to urban influences. It is the consensus of this group that these influences will inevitably lead to changes, many of which might not be desirable.”

This original group consisted of President Samuel R. Spencer, President Emeritus D. Grier Martin, current Mayor T. S. Sadler, Assistant Professor of Economics Robert L. Avinger, Associate Professor of Chemistry James G. Martin, local business executive and Town Council member H. B. Naramore, local businessman R. T. Stone, and J. A. Tate, president of the Piedmont Bank and Trust Company.

They sent a letter to the Davidson mayor and Town Council, suggesting that a committee be set up, called the Committee for Planned Development of the Davidson Community, or the Davidson Long-Range Planning Group. This group, organized under the initiative of Tate, listed as one of its priorities “to protect Davidson as a pleasant place to live and work, and to preserve its traditional atmosphere of a small college community, it appears necessary to anticipate current trends and developments, to make plans for the future, and to implement a positive program for the community.”

The committee members represent many different areas in the college and town life, according to President Spencer. The members are appointed by the President of the College and the Mayor of the town, jointly, and the group is to consist of five to seven members representing the college, town, county, community, business, and so forth, he added.

“It was Mr. Tate's belief, shared by the committee, that rather than be subject to the forces of urban sprawl, we should attempt to plan the growth of the community in constructive ways, and thereby make it an even more desirable community in which to live," Spencer stated.

The original organizing letter listed the basic purposes of the committee as to determine the “type of community best suited to serve the residents of the Town of Davidson and Davidson College, and a practical and orderly way to effect and control the development towards an agreed Community objective.” Some of the factors listed to be considered were the economic situation, such as jobs and retail sales;

Board Receives AED Proposals

The report of the Academy for Educational Development will provide the primary stimulus for consideration of changes at Davidson when the Board of Trustees meets Feb 3-4, according to President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

Rexford Moon, director of the study and Vice-President of AED, will present the report at a plenary session of the Trustees at 10 a.m. Feb. 3. Dr. Chester Alter, chancellor emeritus of the University of Denver and a member of the AED panel will assist in the presentation.

The afternoon session will begin with the section of the report concerned with campus development, including plans for the library and other future construction. Future development of the campus will take place on the North side, Spencer said. The AED recommends that the library be situated between the existing campus and the area to be developed. Displays of the recommended construction sites will be placed on the grounds after the meeting, he said.

Spencer stressed that the AED report, like the Commission reports, is not a mandatory blueprint, but an advisory report to be used at the discretion of the Trustees. “It is a confidential report to the trustees. They will have to decide what parts to release for publication,” he said.

Before the trustees split into their various standing committees for consideration of proposals within their area of jurisdiction, Spencer will summarize his position on reforms. “I will comment on the major questions that are included in both the Commission and AED reports,” he said. “I intend to outline alternatives to the Board which include recommendations with my judgments on those matters.”

The Board will meet again in plenary session on Feb. 4 at 10:30 a.m. to consider the recommendations of the committees. “Because of the complexity and far-reaching nature of most of the questions involved, there could hardly be neat and final decisions on all of these matters,” Spencer said. “What they are more likely to do at this meeting is approve some things in principle so that they can be brought back and worked over later,” he said.

Spencer said that the delay in the submission of the AED report occurred because the panel had not completed the section on campus development at the time of the autumn deadline. The first draft of the report was submitted shortly before Christmas for a routine check to see if all the areas to be studied had been treated, he said.

Spencer indicated that recommendations for administrative reorganization will be included in the report, but said that matters dealing with personnel would not be made public. The Trustees will dine with members of the faculty Feb. 3 and attend a student reception at 10 p.m. in the Morrison Room following the basketball game.

BULLETIN

Ed Shoaf, a junior pre-med major from Charlotte, will edit THE DAVIDSONIAN during the next year as a result of a run-off election for the editorship Monday. Shoaf defeated Paul Rowland, 225-127, to gain the position.

In other races, run-offs yesterday, Wally Tinsley was victorious over Bick Halligan for the seat of YMCA treasurer, two honor court seats were decided and a run-off was set for two more honor court seats on Tuesday. Rising seniors Mort Chiles, George Wagoner and Alan Kirkpatrick picked up a close number of votes to gain places in the honor court run-off. Rising juniors Will Ryan and John Porter were victorious in their honor court election, barely edging out Alan Frierson, the other run-off candidate.

By RICH WILSON Staff Writer

“Oh beautiful... Thank you... This is sweet... sweet!” Ran Coble, newly awakened from his afternoon nap, uttered these words when he learned he was president-elect of the student body. Coble captured 57% of the votes Tuesday, while Tom Opie received 27% and Lyman Parrigin, 16%. Since Coble had amassed a clear majority, a runoff was unnecessary.

“Although elections can be creative experiences, I thought that this election produced few new ideas,” admitted Coble. “However, I do feel that Lyman may have pinpointed the problem of the SGA in that the style of joint administration...the population-growth rate and makeup by age and economic groups; the Character of the Community, its physical appearance and atmosphere, Facilities along the residential, retail and commercial, recreational, and utility lines; Traffic and Parking, including the road system, and municipal action; Land Use, including zoning problems; and its relation to other communities. The group states that “underlying the basic purpose of the Committee is not the need or the desire to change the nature of the Community” (See TOWN, Page 6).

of the past three student body presidents has alienated many of the people.” Projecting into the future, Coble stated that his main goal will be to encourage interest in the SGA. “If enough people are interested, we will get results," he said. One of these may be that of self-scheduled exams which he affirmed would be the first order of business in his administration. Cecil Burney, who ran unopposed for the vice-presidential office, voiced the goals for which he will strive as president of the RHC. “I hope to encourage the RHC to provide a series of programs which will offer a relief from the tensions of the Davidson students," he said. “This idea was started last year with basketball games, speakers, and the lawn supper; however, I hope the RHC will extend these activities in order to provide a program which will be different yet will supplement those of the Union and the fraternities.”

Burney is also considering the idea of painting the rooms in the residence halls different colors as well as improving the lighting. “These rooms are terribly drab," he said. “They must be improved.” The “sophomore slump” is another question with which he is concerned. “This condition may be avoided by not breaking up the freshmen halls after the first year," he reasoned. “I believe the unity of the freshmen halls should be maintained until the students are fully adjusted to the school. Another solution may be to place all the freshmen in Belk Dormitory, thus achieving class cohesiveness rather than fostering the disjoint system of spreading the class over three buildings.”

In addition to student government elections, YMCA officers were elected also. Greg Scott captured the presidential office, while Lester Strong won the office of vice-president, and Tommy Campen triumphed as secretary. Scott's first task as president will be to re-evaluate the freshman camp. “The possibility still exists that we may have the camp here, on campus,” he revealed. “But this will be decided by the YMCA and the freshmen advisors.”

He also hopes to introduce a Great Issues Symposium. “I hope to make this a two-day event where a variety of current issues can be discussed. I am going to project this plan into 1972 so that we will have enough time to plan and make it worthwhile.” Other election results were that Herb Clegg and Joe Smith were elected as freshmen advisors, and freshmen Scott Davidson and Neil Trask were elected to the Honor Court.

Senate Votes Down NSA Membership

After weeks of bickering and discussion, the student Senate has voted down a proposal that Davidson resume its membership in the National Student Association. The proposal was rejected by a vote of nine to six at the meeting of January 21, although, according to SGA President Peter Hobbie, the last word may not have been said on the subject. The proposal was the result of feelers recently sent out by NSA, offering a one-year trial membership to schools agreeing to participate. President Hobbie, who attended the organization's last national convention, said that the NSA was established on the Davidson campus in the 1950s. The organization became the focus of national attention in 1956, when an article in Ramparts Magazine revealed CIA subsidization of many of its activities, specifically its sponsorship of delegations to international youth conferences. It was during this period that Davidson discontinued its membership in NSA. In the interim, NSA has dropped its CIA connection and has taken positions on major national issues.

Discussion on the issue centered on the necessity. Senator Danny Clodfelter questioned the need for NSA membership, claiming that no definite benefits had been presented. Vice President Opie noted that the organization was handicapped by institutional difficulties and by debts totaling $180,000, basing his argument on an article from “Moderator” magazine which had been distributed to Senate members (six of the Senators present had read the article). When the motion for acceptance of the trial membership was brought to a vote, Senators Hobbie, Ralston, Bello, Kruger, Nichols, and President Hobbie voted yes; and Senators Clodfelter, Claunch, Lane, Bailey, Wilkenson, Hinshaw, Upchurch, Vernon, and Vice President Opie voted no. Senators Bynum, Goldman, Irby, Ruke, Burney, Rogers, Turner, and Coble were not in attendance.

President Hobbie said that, in light of the Senate's earlier treatment of the issue, he was surprised at the outcome of the vote. He said that he planned to bring the issue up for another vote at the next Senate meeting. The only other action taken by the Senate was the arrangement of poll workers for the next election and the appointment of Gerry Bello as student member of the Traffic Court.

Officials Hit Illegal Parking

It would be wise for students owning cars to get in walking shape, because the administration is planning a crackdown on illegal parking beginning Monday. According to college business manager Robert Currie, parking tickets will be given to all cars illegally parked, effective Jan. 26. “We have to clamp down,” Currie said. “We can't tolerate the parking as it now exists.” Currie was referring to the parking in undesignated areas, in no parking areas, and along the side of the roads where parking is not allowed.

A large student complaint has come forth this year regarding the lack of parking space, but Currie scoffed at the idea and indicated that no plans for increased parking space have been made. “There is always plenty of parking available in the lot behind the Fine Arts building and behind the gym,” Currie said. He had no comment on the distance between these parking areas and dormitory facilities.

Classes Pick Senators In Tuesday SGA Election

Elections for class senators will be held Tuesday, Jan. 27, in the lobby of Chambers from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. The term of office for those elected will begin Feb. 9, and run until next February. Three senators will be elected from each class; however, the one with the most votes will become the president of the class.

Those running for the rising Senior class are: Mike Cole, Kim Griffith, Ted Heefner, Doug Hickman, Roger Mills, Bob Niebauer, Allen Peterson, Charlie Ralston, and Tom Vernon. The rising Junior class Senatorial Nominees are: Bobby Allen, Danny Clodfelter, Kurt Geisinger, Doug Gentry, Charles Price, Chip Hinnant, Tom Robertson, and Vance Simpson. For Sophomore class senator those running are: Bill Alexander, Jeff Allender, Gerry Bello, Jim Campbell, Jim Claunch, Ronnie Conoley, Bob Edmunds, Bill Eskridge, Tom Giesecke, Dwight Grady, Jack Nichols, and Newell Robinson.