PYEATT EXAMINES ‘GUSH LIX WEEK’

ROTC Students Placed

ROTC branch assignments for the year’s MSIV students have come in, and of 113 assignments made, 28 seniors have been
assigned to infantry; Field artillery will get 21 students and Medical Services will get 18. Of the 28 infantry assignments,
five have been sent back to Third Army Headquarters to be changed.

Candidates for branch assignments are rated by the Army on a 90-point scale. A candidate can have a possible 30
from his class standing, a possible 20 from his rank in the ROTC Department, a possible 20 for leadership, and
20 from his work in Summer Camp.

ACADEMIC CALENDAR, 1970-1971

FALL TERM
September 10-15 Thursday through Tuesday Orientation
September 14-15 Monday through Tuesday Registration
September 16 Wednesday, 8:00 a.m. Fall Term Classes Begin
September 30 Tuesday, 5:00 p.m. Fall Term Ends
November 4 Tuesday, 5:00 p.m. Thanksgiving Recess Begins
November 4 Monday, 8:00 a.m. Thanksgiving Recess Ends
November 18 Monday, 9:00 a.m. Fall Examinations Begin
December 4 Friday, 5:00 p.m. Fall Examinations End
December 4 Friday, 5:00 p.m. Fall Term Ends

WINTER TERM
December 18 Monday, 8:00 a.m. Winter Term Begins
January 1 Friday, 5:00 p.m. Christmas Vacation Begins
March 5 Monday, 8:00 a.m. Christmas Vacation Ends
March 8 Friday, 5:00 p.m. Winter Term Ends
March 9 Monday, 9:00 a.m. Pre-Examination Study Day
March 1 Tuesday, 5:00 p.m. Winter Examinations Begin
March 1 Saturday, 5:00 p.m. Winter Examinations End
March 22 Monday, 8:00 a.m. Winter Term Recess Begins
March 22 Monday, 8:00 a.m. Winter Term Recess Ends

SPRING TERM
Monday, 8:00 a.m. Spring Term Begins
Saturday, 5:00 p.m. Friday Classes and Lab End
Thursday, 5:00 p.m. Spring Term Ends
Friday, 5:00 p.m. Pre-Examination Study Day
Saturday, 8:00 a.m. Spring Examinations Begin

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036

Firm, Flexible To Solve Problems, Says Brewster

NEW HAVEN, Conn. (AP) — Kingman Brewster, Jr., President of Yale, in his annual report sets up the claims of
firmness versus flexibility and argues that both have their place in university governance. Specifically, he presents guidelines by reviewing Yale's
experiences in the past year in three sensitive areas: student power in university affairs, black power and arrangements for black
studies, and protection of dissent and prevention of disruption.

Yale's recent experience demanded “both firmness and flexibility. It is extremely important to know when to be firm and when
to be flexible, for firmness misapplied can be intransigence, and flexibility misapplied can be softness,” he states.

But President Brewster re-emphasizes his belief that “a university cannot be a democracy of equal voices of students and faculty
all on the same matters that matter.”

No Change Seen

The Yale President also outlined his opposition to students and faculty being elected to the university board of trustees. The
credibility of trustees depends on the widespread confidence by faculty, alumni, and the public that “they are not spokesmen for
any special interest, inside or outside the University. Any representation of faculty, student, or anyone else directly affected by their
decision would immediately corrupt the essence of trusteeship and turn it into a legislative forum of blocs,” his report warns.

The impact of the black revolution on Yale and other traditional universities is evident, according to President Brewster. New studies
involved black students and black student arrangements, which have increased black student enrollment and as many in ROTC Rolls.

Col. Virgil P. Foster, professor of Military Science, has received notification from Third Army Headquarters that “while draft laws have
been changed, there are no provisions for disenrollment and discharge on this basis alone.” Cases of disenrollment and “evasion of
the terms of the contract” will continue to be handled as before.

Advanced ROTC students with high lottery numbers, which normally would exempt them from the draft, are nonetheless bound to two
years of military service by their ROTC contracts with the Department of the Army. Asked about this, Col. Foster said
that the ROTC Department is making every effort to accommodate each individual.

For instance, Col. Foster cited one senior who will fulfill the two-year requirement in the last two terms of this
year. Afterward, he will attend graduate school.Court of Appeals ruled that ROTC students need not drop out of the program
despite the Nixon administration’s reforms.

FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1970
Anti-Lottery Case Brought, COED EXCHANGE PLANS ARE SET
Page Six
NUMBER ELEVEN

By STEVE CROSS
Assist. Copy Editor

Recent criticism of the draft system continues to mount. The 3rd United States Court of Appeals in Philadelphia ruled on
Saturday that the reclassification of deferred men who have turned in their draft cards is unconstitutional. Meanwhile, a Federal Judge
agreed to hear a case arguing that the recent lottery drawing was not random.

Judge Harry Kalodner and Judge Stahl charged that the lottery drawing in December was mixed. Judge Bucher suggested to local
boards that individuals who protested the draft should be reclassified. Despite the Nixon administration’s reforms, the draft system continues to
face legal challenges.

IN NO HURRY

Studies have shown that the first six months of the year have higher draft numbers on average than the last
six months. The average number for a month is computed by adding up all the numbers assigned to birthdates in
that month and dividing by the number of days in that month. If the number drawn for each month is
put on a bar graph, the draft number will rise from 201 to a peak of 226, then decline to
204 in April and May. After that, numbers decline from June to December, with the only aberration being October's sudden
leap.

White House spokesman Bill Lineaweaver dismissed all charges of unfair drawings as “purely speculative” and said there would be no
new drawing for young men between 19 and 27 this year. Last month, Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts asked the
National Academy of Science to determine if last year’s drawing was random. The Academy has not decided whether to honor
that request.

John Smith, a Statistics Professor at American University, commented that there are numerous mechanical means to draw birthdates, such as
“throwing dice or using a computer.” He also mentioned the old fishbowl method, which presents the problem that the capsules
might not be well mixed or might break while being stirred.

On Nov. 26, 1969, President Nixon issued an executive order calling for a random selection of prospective draftees' birthdates but
did not specify the method to be used.

Attack on Fraternity Rush with Rushee Guide

For the second straight year, a group of Davidson students has sponsored a broadside of literature aimed at informing the
freshman class about the fraternity system. According to Peter Hobbie, SGA President and one of the sponsors, the aim is
to give freshmen a perspective on the system. Hobbie compiled a booklet entitled “A Freshman’s Guide to Rush,” which gives
an unflattering look at the fraternity system.

Anti-rush forces are preparing their strategy. The EPC is staging a comeback, though its purpose is not yet known. Hobbie
expressed optimism about their campaign, emphasizing that they are not necessarily against fraternities but want freshmen to have an informed
perspective.

Hobbie’s group has received support from Dan Herd, KA and President of the IFC. Herd stated that the anti-rush movement
has had a healthy influence and that there is now a viable alternative to fraternity affiliation. He emphasized that the
college has ignored the social problems of its students, leading to entrenched fraternities facing no opposition until recently.

Hobbie hopes to continue activities to participate and comment upon the fraternity system. There will be a meeting in the
Union on Friday at 1:30 PM to discuss the situation. The meeting will be informal, with no coats or ties
required, and no one will be escorted from the cafeteria. Anyone who wants to come will have to find their
own way.

HANDSHAKE

And the rush is on.
