Page Four, September 18, 1970

The Davidsonian

Saturday, September 19
5 p.m. Salem Mixer

Monday, September 21
11 a.m. Convocation
12:45 p.m. Luncheon
7 p.m. Tryouts for "The Alchemist"
7:30 p.m. Hungry I

Tuesday, September 22
4:30 p.m. Freshman Cake Race
7:30 p.m. Hungry I

Wednesday, September 23
7:30 p.m. Hungry I

Thursday, September 24
7:30 p.m. Hungry I
8 p.m. Fine Film "The Seven Samurai"

Friday, September 25
7:30 p.m. Hungry I

Up 'n' Coming
7 p.m. Tryouts for "The Alchemist"
7 p.m. Scuba Diving Class Meeting

Union
Love Auditorium
Chambers Dining Hall
Fine Arts Bldg.
Morrison Room
Cross Country Course
Fine Arts Bldg.
Morrison Room
Green Room
Morrison Room
Morrison Room
Love Auditorium
Morrison Room

Bevan (Continued From Page 1)

iety is the one that loses. The big problem is that too many universities consider themselves the caretakers of society. "The university must look down the road to what is ahead; the past may offer cherished memories, but other than that it is invaluable."

Bevan did, however, encourage students to work in the fall election campaigns. "I hope that faculty members won't mind if a student who is serious about elections wants to work in a campaign for a week. I don't believe in closing down the college for a week, but if some feel the elections are more important, by golly, they may be! I'm sure the faculty would help the student make up his missed work."

Bevan also expressed the role which he hoped Davidson would play in the development of its students. "When a man walks out of here, I feel he should have attained a certain level of competence and that he should be a concerned and sensitive human being. If Davidson was a contributing factor in the development of these qualities in its students, by God, we'd have the strongest alumni this world has yet seen."

Bevan was then asked that if he was confined to a hospital bed for six months, who would he want beside him. Bevan immediately said, "My wife. I go home at night and unwind in the WCAT Club by talking with her. She is a patient sounding board, and a sympathetic listener as well as a critic." He paused for a moment and said, "Of famous persons I'd like Robert Frost in the bed next to me because of his sensitivity and response to individuals. Adlai Stevenson is another possibility because of his humanity and sensitivity. That's pretty remarkable after treading the path of the politician which is often a rough and dismal route."

Bevan was also asked what he felt his greatest virtue and weakness were. His answer to both questions was the same. "I get interested and involved in many things," he said.

Spencer Predicts Current Proposals To Be Realities For This Year’s Freshmen By Time Of Graduation

Many changes now most sought and discussed by those at Davidson will become reality for the class of 1974 according to President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Addressing the freshmen last Friday, Spencer described an era of physical, educational and social change which had not until this time been placed in the immediate future of the college. Included in the projected reforms were some form of co-education and action in the very near future to improve Davidson's social system with relation to fraternities.

Spencer issued to the freshmen a plea for involvement in these changes bypassing both non-involvement and "atomizing individualism." He urged students to seek local rather than exclusively distant social concerns.

First referring to the physical plant, Spencer said that although the estimated cost of the library-learning center has risen from two to three and one-half million dollars, architects will go ahead with definite plans for construction. Also within the next four years Spencer predicted a new conference center to be built on I-77 and the renovation of the Martin Chemistry Building.

Possible within the near future is the construction of a new dormitory and a new student center.

New Academic Dean, Seven Faculty Members Join Davidson This Year

Davidson College adds eight new faculty members to its staff for the 1970-71 academic year. John M. Bevan is the new vice president for academic affairs. Formerly the academic vice president at the University of the Pacific during 1967-70 and at Florida Presbyterian College in 1959-67, Bevan is a graduate of Franklin and Marshall College, Duke Divinity School and Duke University. He is a member of the high-level policy and planning committee of the American Council on Education and of several other educational and professional organizations.

J. Harris Proctor will become Pana Professor of Political Science. Author of several professional articles on Africa and the West Indies, he has traveled and taught in numerous areas.

Heckard Will Implement Trustee Football Policy

By JOHN McLEAN
Associate Editor

The trustees’ new plan for financing Davidson football got its start this summer with the hiring of a special fund raiser for football scholarships. Former captain and three-year professional player Steve Heckard, a Davidson football player, was appointed executive director of the Wildcat Athletic Fund by College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. on Aug 26.

At their winter meeting last year the trustees decided to finance football through a smaller amount from the college general fund, the remainder being made up through earmarked contributions. The plan goes into effect in 1971-1972, with $40,000 from the general fund and the rest from whatever Heckard can raise. Last year, the total football scholarship budget was about $120,000. The new program is expected to save the college about $100,000 per year. The college releases contradictory figures on "football expenditures," sometimes including coaches’ salaries, sometimes not.

Heckard’s salary will come from the money he raises, according to Sports Information Director. Football officials are confident that a strong program can be funded.

Governance Panel To Open Hearings

The Committee on College Governance, a special committee instituted by the trustees last spring to untangle the structures of responsibility in the college community, will convene Oct. 29 to reconsider the views of student and faculty governing bodies. Chaired by former trustee board chairman Walter L. Lingle, the committee includes representatives from the administration, faculty, students and trustees.

Academic vice president John M. Bevan is the choice of President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. to represent the administration. The faculty executive committee appointed philosophy professor George L. Abernethy as faculty representative. Student voice on the committee is SGA President Ran Coble. The trustees appointed their vice chairman, James D. Phillips, last spring.

The committee is scheduled to meet with the Faculty Executive Committee and selected student government representatives, but Lingle says that the committee will consider the ideas of any other interested parties if they are submitted in writing before the date of the meeting.by contributions. So far, some $25,000 in contributions has been earmarked for the football fund. The adoption of this way of athletic financing was considered a victory for the Wildcat Club, which lobbied with the trustees against proponents of plans to de-emphasize football by reducing official college financial support. Proponents of de-emphasis feared that the new plan would mean contributions will go to football instead of the general fund. Davidson head coach Dave Fagg was “elated with the appointment,” according to Parker. “This is one of the best things that has happened since I became coach,” Fagg said. “The fund raising has been on my mind a lot. Now I can concentrate more on coaching the football team.” “I think Davidson needs football very much," Heckard said. “I think the solution the trustees came up with is ideal and workable. I think we can raise the money.” Heckard, a 27-year-old native of Winston-Salem, has just completed a tour of duty with the army. He was stationed at the U.S. Military Academy where he served as assistant football coach. He played end and quarterback for Davidson from 1963 to 1965 and after graduating spent three years with the Los Angeles Rams. He has done graduate work at the University of South Carolina in business administration. Heckard is married to the former Mary Jane Addison of Clinton, S.C. They have one son.

With the first issue of the 1970-'71 academic year, THE DAVIDSONIAN will begin to reveal the effects of a number of over-the-summer staff changes.

Associate Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
JOHN McLEAN
RUSS MERRITT
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH
TOM VERNON

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
DON PARMAN

Sports Editor:
ERNIE SHIPE

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
SCOTT DAVIDSON

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Assistant Sports Editor:
A.W. TURNER

Cartoonist:
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Photographers:
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS

Junior Don Parman is now working as managing editor in charge of news. Formerly sports editor, Parman replaces John McLean who was managing editor for last year. McLean is remaining with THE DAVIDSONIAN as an associate editor. Also joining the staff of associate editors is senior Dick Anderson who last year was in Germany on the Junior Year Abroad program. Junior Ernie Shipe has taken the position of sports editor replacing Parman. Shipe worked last year as an assistant sports editor. Leaving THE DAVIDSONIAN will be senior Steve Roady, formerly an associate editor. He has left the newspaper staff to become news director for the campus radio station WDAV. Next week THE DAVIDSONIAN will publish its annual eight-page directory issue.

(Continued From Page 1)
ate a “situation antithetical to a strong sense of community. In summary, even if the talks were congenial and often productive it was obvious at almost every turn that student and CCC views toward the Davidson community are quite different and will demand much discussion and exchange before really serious student and college concerns can be resolved.

Proctor, in future, are a new college union building and new residence units emphasizing small unit design and more lounge space. Turning to educational life at Davidson, Spencer predicted a turn of emphasis from the traditional with efforts toward increasing the learning experience beyond the classroom. Possible changes include increased international study both in Europe and in South Asia, a shift to greater independent study rejecting the “over-cautious” Blue-Sky approach, and greater interdisciplinary work. Spencer also emphasized that greater opportunities would be offered for work off the campus approaching a situation where the majority of the junior class would be away from Davidson. As for social life on campus, Spencer said coeducation in some form would be a reality by 1974. He cautioned, however, that we “should not be talking about coeducation just for the social convenience of Davidson men.”

Geraldine A. Dwyer, who obtained her master’s degree in anthropology from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, will serve as instructor in sociology and anthropology. The history department receives C. Earl Edmondson from UNC-Chapel Hill as an assistant professor of history. After receiving his B.A. from Mississippi College, Edmondson studied as a Fulbright Fellow in Innsbruck, Austria. He received his Ph.D. from Duke. Larry L. Ligo will teach in the art department as its first professional art historian. A graduate of Muskingum College and Princeton Theological Seminary, Ligo studied in Paris during 1966-67. Having completed work for his Ph.D. in mathematics at Chapel Hill, Thomas Lominac will be an instructor in mathematics. He received his A.B. and M.S. degrees from UNC and has held a NDEA Fellowship for three years. Edward Palmer will be a new assistant professor of psychology, and John J. Young will serve as instructor in philosophy. Young recently received his Ph.D. from the University of London. Spencer, referring to Davidson's fraternity system, also predicted official efforts soon which would seek to provide programs equally for all in the realm of social activities. He has previously taught at John Carroll University and the University of Virginia.

LEARN TO DIVE
GET COLLEGE CREDIT

A college credit course in Scuba Diving will be offered on the Davidson campus this term. Use of Scuba equipment and textbook included with course; students furnish own mask, fins, and snorkel. The class will meet on Monday and Wednesday evenings from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m. for nine weeks. Students completing the course will receive one hour of credit in physical education. All interested persons are invited to an open meeting to be held in the Green Room of the College Union at 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday, September 23. For additional information call Charlotte 333-5475 (Day) or JA3-4762 (Night).

$25.00
SCUBATEER DIVER TRAINING
1012 Sedgefield Rd.
Charlotte, N.C. 28209
332-3014

No. 1
2129 Central Ave.

No. 2
2905 Selwyn Ave.
376-6370

IF YOU ARE AN ALUMNUS, A FRIEND, A PARENT, OR A STUDENT WITH PARENTS WHO WANT TO KEEP UP WITH YOU, A SUBSCRIPTION TO THE DAVIDSONIAN IS YOUR BEST WAY TO KNOW DAVIDSON OVER THE ACADEMIC YEAR. SUBSCRIPTIONS ARE $7.00 PREPAID (MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO THE DAVIDSONIAN) OR WE CAN BILL YOU FOR $7.50. MERELY ENCLOSE THE FORM BELOW WITH YOUR CHECK OR REQUEST:

Name
Address
Check enclosed
Bill me later