Page Six October 2, 1970

Cats Surprise Richmond, 14-5.

By HAL CANTER
Sports Writer

Head football coach Dave Fagg called Saturday's 14-5 victory over the University of Richmond “a magnificent triumph” and added that
the entire staff and all players had made a great effort.

“We have the greatest confidence in our men,” said Fagg. “The 1970 team has a unique and different pride in
their team and school. It is proof of the strength in the football program that such a team could be
produced after losing a head coach and many outstanding players last year.”

Asked if Davidson had a psychological edge over Richmond, Fagg said that last year was the first time in five
years that Davidson had defeated the Spiders. “That’s not much of an edge,” he concluded.

The Wildcats scored the first time they got their hands on the ball. Mike Mikolayunas topped the 64-yard scoring drive
as he raced 21 yards down the left side with a Mark Thompson pass. Key runs by Johnny Ribet and
Bill Bracken sustained the scoring drive.

Richmond began threatening late in the first quarter and marched to the Wildcats' six to see Jim Livesay drop a
touchdown pass. The Spiders kicked a field goal from there to bring the score to 7-3.

Early in the third quarter, Rick Lyon raced 73 yards with a punt return to the Spiders' seven. Three plays
later, Bill Bracken slammed across the goal from the one to widen the lead to 14-3. Later in the quarter,
Richmond tagged a safety on the Wildcats when Mark Thompson was called for intentional grounding from the end zone.

The Spiders only threatened once in the fourth quarter when they drove to the Wildcats' eight only to see a
field goal attempt fall wide to the right.

Fagg heaped praise on the Richmond club as he termed them among the two top teams in the conference now
who should be there at the end of the season.

The Southern Conference named senior Rick Lyon runner-up offensive player of the week as a result of his performance. In
addition to the long punt return, Lyon caught three passes for 33 yards.

Senior Ken Totherow was named the Southern Conference Player of the Week for his defensive effort. He, Jim Buchanan, and
Sean McCormick kept more pressure on quarterback Charlie Richards than the passing whiz had been exposed to so far this
season. Richards only managed to complete 15 of 37 passes for 143 yards. Three of his passes were picked off
by seniors Chris Giles and Rick Hawarah and sophomore James Hardison. Fagg also cited sophomore linebacker Mike Sikes for a
strong defensive effort.

Foreign Students Aid Soccer Team

By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

Foreign students Tesfaye Demmelash and Gudmundur V. Karlsson, both at Davidson this year on Foreign Fellowships, promise to brighten the
soccer scene in what looms as a year of inexperience.

Demmelash, from Ethiopia, and Karlsson, from Iceland, have both been playing soccer since they were kids. Each has been in
the United States for three weeks. Demmelash played soccer for his school in Ethiopia. A center-forward, he is extremely quick
and has a good foot. When asked about the team he stated, “They are beyond my expectations. I didn't believe
they would be this good.”

Karlsson is the second...Richardson Fellaw: "He played locally in Selfoss, Iceland. He lives there. 'The team is really better than
I'd heard; soccer wasn't very good,' he quietly laughed. 'I really didn't practice very much this summer,' he said. When
asked what kept him occupied, Karlson said he worked in a dairy. 'The one thing I really like about Davidson
is the honor system,' stated Karlson. Three other foreign students have also joined the squad. These include Nick Lynch of
Wales and Rainer Langenburg and Peter-Josef Hans of West Germany. Nick has played quite a bit of soccer and expects
to be a center halfback. Today is the big day for Coach Harry Fogleman's squad as they open the season
in Fayetteville against Methodist College. Dick Levan, a junior halfback, has been chosen captain of the team and with both
of last year’s goalies overseas, Sophomore Paul Caldwell will get his first shot at goalie."

(Staff photo by Lyle)

IN PREPARATION FOR TRINITY
Wildcat defenders go through drills for their home opener tomorrow against the Tigers.

Trinity To Feature Dangerous Tailback
By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

Trinity University will bring a 1-2 record and a ground-minded offense to Richardson Stadium at 2:00 p.m. Saturday for Davidson's
home opener. It will be only the second meeting between the schools. Davidson edged Trinity 17-16 last year on Ed
Terry's last-second field goal. The visiting Tigers, members of the Southland Conference, will be seeking to snap a two-game losing
streak. After opening with a 35-10 win over Wisconsin State, they lost to Texas A & I (defending NAIA champs)
23-0 and last week were beaten 13-4 by Southwest Texas on a last-play touchdown.

The Davidson defense turned in a superb performance last week in stopping Richmond's aerial-minded offense without a touchdown. It will
be faced with another rugged task this week, trying to stop Trinity's overland assault, which is spearheaded by sensational tailback
Earl Costley. The 5'8", 170-pound freshman has amassed 448 yards in three games, and carried 32 times for a whopping
212 yards last week against Southwest Texas. He is averaging 6.0 yards per carry. Costley has Davidson Coach Dave Fagg
worried. 'He is just one tremendous football player,' Fagg said. 'Our defense was fine against Richmond. But you have got
to be worried when you face someone who can run like he can.'

Fullback Greg Oliver, a 6'0", 190-pound junior, is the Tigers’ second leading rusher, with 105 yards on 33 tries. Regular
quarterback Mike Curry is listed as a doubtful starter, and freshman Charlie Bump will start if he is unable to
play. The two combined have completed only 8 of 43 passes for 133 yards. Wingback Shawn Meagher, the team’s leading
receiver with seven catches, rounds out the Tiger backfield.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1818 W. Morehead

PARKS DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 to 10:30
Phone 892-2111
Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Muthers Coffeehouse Theater
1225 Central Ave.
Phone 376-7100
Folk Music, Blues, Drama
Cold Beer
Open 7 nights a week 6:30 to 12:00
Rock Bands Sunday only 1-5
