Page. a _ Orton. 30, 1970 = 7 bet ew Ye Friday, October 30 12 p.m. Lunch Films 8:03 p.m. Movie: “The April Fools” Saturday, October 31 2, 8 p.m. Concert 10:15 a.m. Movie: “The April Fools” Monday, November 2 11 a.m. Red Cross Blood Drive Tuesday, November 3 11 a.m. Red Cross Blood Drive Wednesday, November 4 8 p.m. Fine Film: “On the Waterfront” Thursday, November 5 10 p.m. Movie: “True Grit” Friday, November 6 10 p.m. Movie: “True Grit” Saturday, November 7 9 a.m. Examination Area III 1 p.m. Examination Area IV 8 p.m. Brewer and Shipley Concert 10:30 p.m. Student Organ Recital Monday, November 9 10 a.m. Piedmont Lecturer: R.C. Buck 3:30 p.m. Piedmont Lecturer: R.C. Buck Tuesday, November 10 10 a.m. Speaker: Charles Palmgren Wednesday, November 11 8:15 p.m. Major Drama Production: “The Alchemist” Thursday, November 12 8:15 p.m. Major Drama Production: “The Alchemist” Friday, November 13 6:15 p.m. Major Drama Production: “The Alchemist” 8:15 p.m. Major Drama Production: “The Alchemist” 10 p.m. Movie: “True Grit” Saturday, November 14 All Day Freshman Parent Day

Locations:
Morrison Room
Chambers
Love Auditorium
Dana 114
Dining Hall
Presbyterian Church
Hodson Hall

Dwyer Critiques Works on Anthropology
By Peter Pesci, Staff Writer

Miss Geraldine Dwyer, a member of the Sociology Department at Davidson, spoke to an open meeting of the Philanthropic Society last Monday night. She discussed two recent books, “The Naked Ape” by Desmond Morris and “African Genesis” by Robert Ardrey, which have proved immensely popular with the general public. Miss Dwyer, a graduate of Hunter College in New York with graduate work at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, had disparaging words for both books. She said that neither is considered a fine work by anthropologists, which she is, even though she teaches sociology.

Miss Dwyer began her lecture with a brief explanation of anthropology, which she defined as “the study of man,” and then she listed its four major subdivisions: linguistics, prehistoric archaeology, ethnology, and physical anthropology. She then began the major portion of her talk, discussion and criticism of the two books. She said that both writers simply gave the public what they wanted — sex and violence. She said the two writers “bend the facts to fit the public diet.” Her harshest criticism was for “The Naked Ape,” which she said had the most inaccuracies. For instance, Morris's statement that man went through some kind of monkey stage, which has been proved virtually impossible. Morris further appeals to the egoism of his readers by insinuating that “Americans and Westerners are on top.”

OPEN HOUSE
The following homes will be open Sunday evening at 8:
Wolf 204
Woodland

Nationals Decide To Rush
(Continued From Page 1)

...refrain from rushing and bidding freshmen at present. “I ask for the cooperation of the national fraternities until we can work out an agreement in the committee.

“For the sake of this year’s freshmen, I will say that if you are bid from a fraternity, there is no guarantee you will be eating with them next year. You may be randomly assigned to another house,” he said.

Escapists Delight In ‘April Fools’
A REVIEW
By Ken Parks, Staff Writer

Still depressed from flunking your last four reviews? Say you just called home and the operator said your new number was unlisted? If you want to console your psyche and spend a couple of hours in pure escapism from this mortal world of woe, go see “The April Fools.” It’s on in the Morrison Room this weekend.

Set in New York, “The April Fools” will make you forget those nasty little problems the city faces by dazzling you with shots of only the most beautiful and posh apartments. Here, our characters spend their time in lives only recently updated from “Alice in Wonderland.”"Devenue" starts as the jaded wife of a jet-set swinger, Peter Lawford. His life ebbs to be literally one constant party. Jack Lemmon plays the hen-pecked husband, whose shrewish wife in Darien is trying to check up on his activities. One night at a cocktail party, Jack meets Catherine (music sounds, lights twinkle) and the two of them exit for a few drinks. At a wild discotheque, they run into Myrna Loy and return with her to her Long Island estate. There, Jack fences with Myrna's wacky husband (Charles Boyer), and the four of them pass the night spewing comments on the transitory state of life and the need for true love. Well, by now, Jack and Catherine know they've each found their own true love. They decide to elope after a ten-hour engagement. Then comes the proverbial twist in the plot. As we've all known for about sixty-five minutes, Catherine's husband is Jack's employer. But we shouldn't let a little problem like that stand in the way of romance. Jack doesn’t as he bids farewell to old what's-her-name and his three kids in Darien and climbs slowly into the western sky in a TWA with the heroine at his side.

Bevan added that he hoped fraternities would remain on campus. “I hope they will be elastic enough to accept the new basis of affiliation,” he said. Bevan was then asked why the board of trustees made the provision that fraternities could not eat off campus. He replied that this had been tried before and was unsuccessful. “There are two reasons for this. First, there is the question of control. If fraternities are off campus, we will lose the sense of community desirable in this college. Secondly, there is the matter of economics. When this was tried before it was not financially successful,” he said. Bevan said that it may be possible for fraternities to go off campus, but he doubted whether the national chapter would invest its money without knowing the outcome of the situation. Regarding the financial prospects of setting up this new system, Bevan said, “The college will go to any expense to institute this social program.”

Some students were concerned about the active role taken by Presidential Assistant Peter H. Hobbie. Bevan had said that although the meetings of the committee were open, only those on the committee could take an active role. Those who wanted to observe may do so. Yet some who attended the financial subcommittee meeting noted that Hobbie had taken a “very active role” in explaining the intent of the recommendations of the board of trustees. It was also revealed that Hobbie is serving as secretary of the committee.

Among these are basically first, the main stream of the evolutionary line and that those considered less advanced are off that mainstream. Miss Dwyer further said that Morris uses Western norms in sex as correct and brands all others as deviates while, in fact, Western man is in a minority. Miss Dwyer said that as one finished "The Naked Ape," he is supposed to stand up and thank God that he is an American—a Pharisee rather than a publican. The speaker considered "African Genesis" a much better written and documented book than Morris’. She commended him for getting one fact right—that Africa is man’s birthplace, although she disagreed with some of his other conclusions about apes, chimpanzees, and the idea that all tools are really weapons. Miss Dwyer did not recommend either book as a good one on such questions as evolution, aggression, violence, and man. When asked what she would recommend, she promised those assembled that she would post a list of books outside the Alumni Office Tuesday morning.

After a brief pause to allow guests to leave, the Society held a regular business meeting.

The Changing Clothes The Changing Man Just arrived—A new shipment of Flared Blue Jeans Benck & Sons Mooresville