LLETIN BU CARY HITS Aautsonian Homer Smith announced yesterday that he was resigning as Davidson's head football coach. For details see story on COURT ACTION Page 1. Published Weekly By Davidson College Students LIX: DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1970 NUMBER SEVENTEEN

Honor Court Conviction Stirs Reform Protests
By JOHN McLEAN
Managing Editor

The student who has been involved in the two-month-long series of drug trials at Davidson College has been found guilty of an honor offense and has been sentenced to be expelled from school. The defendant last week received a suspension of his sentence in the drugs case. He was previously found guilty of selling illegal drugs on campus. On retrial, he received a suspended sentence, with the provision that he be permanently expelled should he ever again be found in violation of the Code of Responsibility.

Shortly after this retrial ended, the defendant was charged with cheating on a review. Evidence in the case which favored conviction consisted of the testimony of one student, who said he had seen the defendant examine some notes during the review. There was no corroborative evidence from other students in the class. The chairman of the investigating committee examined the notes and the review and found that although the notes did cover material on the review, the defendant had left blank some of the questions whose answers were on the review. The student received a grade of 47 on the review, hardly a sign of cheating.

In an interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN early in the week, the defendant indicated that he thought student involvement in his behalf might initiate a review of the whole judicial system. "What is needed most is a separation of prosecution and jury," he said. "The burden of proving guilt is on the court."

Last Sunday night, a group of about 35 students gathered in the Green Room in the College Union to protest the Honor Court’s action and to form a committee which would present information on the trial to members of the administration and student body.

The chairman of the investigating committee, which is charged with gathering the facts of the case, said, "There was no indication from the review itself that the defendant had used the notes in answering the test questions."

Text Of Court Letter
To members of the College Community:

Within the past week, a student was convicted of cheating on a review by the Honor Court. We think the conviction was based on insufficient evidence, and that the case bears too many marks of a prejudiced and non-objective hearing for us not to be disturbed. We wish to bring the facts of the case to your attention, hoping that in your concern you will discuss the case with members of the faculty, administration, and student body who are involved in the prosecution, hearing, and appeal.

These are the basic facts: The student was previously found guilty of selling illegal drugs on campus. On retrial, he received a suspended sentence, with the provision that he be permanently expelled should he ever again be found in violation of the Code of Responsibility. Shortly after this retrial ended, the defendant was charged with cheating on a review. Evidence in the case which favored conviction consisted of the testimony of one student, who said he had seen the defendant examine some notes during the review. There was no corroborative evidence from other students in the class. The chairman of the investigating committee examined the notes and the review and found that although the notes did cover material on the review, the defendant had left blank some of the questions whose answers were on the review. The student received a grade of 47 on the review, hardly a sign of cheating.

The Senate, with only one dissenting vote, passed a resolution calling for a review of the case and establishing a student government committee to examine the judicial system.

Macbeth’ Still Satisfies Despite Its Difficulties
By DON HOYT

The problems faced by the department’s winter production of “Macbeth” have been expertly overcome by the creation of three of the witches. Joe Gardner's set as if they were hovering in medieval Scotland. The witches wear something that looks like old, brownish Army blankets, yet cut so that when the witches are in their usual low gliding posture it's hard to tell where witch begins and blanket ends.

The witches not only looked strange, but talked strangely; their average fell to about 10%. It is much less irritating, however, to listen to someone you can't understand at all than to someone you understand two-thirds of the time. Nevertheless, I didn’t understand a word until the second scene and Malcolm’s speech “This is the sergeant.” My attention was torn away from the spectacle of the wounded soldier lying on the stretcher to search for the single articulate player.

The Student Life Committee (SLC) met on Wednesday morning and heard a proposal from the Residence Hall Council and the SGA Senate which would enable students to vote to have 24-hour open dorms. The committee took no action on the measure, but according to Dean of Students Richard C. Burts Jr., the proposal will be taken up at the next meeting on Wednesday, Feb. 26.

Former SGA Vice President Tom Opie and current SGA Vice President Cecil Burney made the presentation, and then answered committee members' questions. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. made a brief statement on the matter to the SLC before the proposal was formally made. According to Burts, Spencer...

1970 Calendar Change Appears Unlikely—Coble
Only a slight chance apparently exists that the...1970-71 academic calendar published in THE DAVIDSONIAN earlier this quarter will be changed. The calendar will be brought up again before the Faculty Executive Committee, but SGA President Ran Coble is skeptical of the chances for revision. If the proposed calendar were altered, probably the only schedule which could be put in its place is the one which the school is using this year. Another possible calendar, which like the already published one would include the split winter term but would allow for a late May graduation and would also have the fall quarter finished before Thanksgiving, has already been rejected by the Executive Committee. The main reason for its demise was a football scheduling conflict with the fall exam period.

Coble talked with Dean of Faculty Frontis W. Johnston soon after the proposed 1970-71 Calendar was released, informing him that many students had voiced displeasure with it. At that time, Johnston stated that there was little hope of changing what was already public. Coble then asked whether the calendar might be reconsidered if a referendum were held and the results showed obvious student discontent with the proposed schedule. Johnston said that such an event might prompt reconsideration, so the Senate at Coble’s suggestion conducted a referendum on the calendar Jan. 27.

The results of the referendum showed student disenchantment with the Executive Committee’s calendar. Given three schedule choices and asked to list them in order of preference, 44.8% of the students who voted listed the proposed calendar as their last choice. Only 20.9% listed it as their first choice. Confronted with these results, Johnston agreed to reintroduce the calendar before the Executive Committee. But the relative lateness of this school year, among other factors, makes it rather unlikely that the much-maligned 1970-71 calendar will be changed, said Coble.

This week THE DAVIDSONIAN pointed out the provision in the Code of Responsibility which states women visitors are permitted in residence halls only under conditions and at times which the faculty, administration, and the appropriate student organization prescribe. He also mentioned the rules-change procedure from the RHA Constitution which reads, “The RHC with the advice and consent of the Senate and the Faculty Student Life Committee may agree upon such regulations governing residence hall life as they deem wise, so long as such regulations do not conflict with the policies of the Student Government or the Trustee.”

The proposal presented by Opie Burney does not institute 24-hour open dorms as such, but changes the RHA Manual of Order so that each hall could vote to have round-the-clock open dorms if it so desired. The Student Life Committee also decided to organize itself for an “in-depth review” of the Code of Responsibility before the Trustees meet in April.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Report explores the situation in housing in the town of Davidson. The plight of the married student, the general condition of low-rent housing in ‘the other Davidson’ and off-campus housing for students and the college’s role in housing—these subjects are analyzed on Page Three this week.

Among the important issues considered by the SGA Senate in the meeting held Tuesday night were the student judiciary system, area studies, and student representation at the departmental level in the College. The judiciary system was called into question with the presentation of an open letter to the college community. The letter, which was prepared by Franklin Anderson, Sam Johnson, Tom Opie, and Cary Tucker, stated that in the belief of those who prepared the letter a miscarriage of justice had occurred in a recent Honor Court case and that the handling of the case presented a dangerous precedent.

Sophomore Senator Danny Clodfelter presented a critique of the action involving area studies, saying that he felt that many of the problems currently confronting the College on this subject had arisen because current problems and long-range plans had not been considered separately when the faculty acted on area exams. Currently, he said, the faculty is offering a number of proposals dealing with area studies. In conjunction with the action of the faculty, he proposed six criteria for the planning of area studies and asked that his list be endorsed by the Senate. He suggested that the area program be regarded as experimental, that the requirements not be universal but scaled, that the program apply only to freshmen and sophomores, that the programs stress conceptual knowledge and method rather than data, that evaluation of examinations be made more subjectively, and that the present consolidated three areas be broadened into four areas to stress conceptual learning.

Clodfelter warned that not a great deal should be expected as a result of representation, saying that on the basis of interviews with two departments, he had found that as such there were not a great many formal department meetings. He did say that he thought student representation would create new lines of communication between students and faculty. The recommendation was passed unanimously.

Pointing to a need for more recreational facilities, freshman Senator Bill Alexander suggested that the Senate recommend a policy of (See SENATE, Page 6).

In a day of lightning-fast developments, Davidson head football coach Homer Smith announced his resignation and assistant coach Dave Fagg was named to the position by President Samuel Spencer Jr. and Athletic Director Tom Scott. Fagg was very optimistic about the outlook for Davidson as he accepted his new post. “There were times when we were discouraged to a point. But we thought our football program was a good one and was good for Davidson. It looked tough for a while. But we are pleased with the way it has worked out.

“I think Davidson is losing a tremendous professional in Homer Smith. I have never had the opportunity to work with anyone more dedicated to college football.” Both President Spencer and Smith had nothing but words of praise for the new head coach. “Dave is one of our own and one of our best. He has the respect of the team and of the entire college community. The football program will continue under the policy recently adopted by the trustees and we are confident that he will do a fine job,” said Spencer.

Smith said that his decision was the result of deliberation “for some time now.” He said, “The strain of the year was a factor. I want to stay in it and I want to find a place where I really fit. I've been in contact with several schools, but there is no hurry. I would like to have a chance to recruit the best football players.”