Page Four April 8, 1970

The Davidsonian

Series Sponsors — Concert In Love

By BILL ESKRIDGE

Tonight at 8:15, Nicholas Harsanyi and the Princeton Chamber Orchestra will present a concert in Love Auditorium.

Junior Pleads Guilty

By GEORGE KANEKLIDES

A junior has pleaded guilty on a charge of stealing from the Student Store. The Honor Court has sentenced him to suspension for the remainder of the spring term, but according to Ken Crews, chairman of the Honor Court, he will be “acceptable for readmission in the fall of 1970."

Crews said the decision is consistent with the clause in the Code of Responsibility which “states that any students found guilty of an Honor violation will normally be suspended for two years." According to Crews, the wording suggests that a shorter suspension is permissible.

In 1962, however, the faculty set a precedent by ruling that no sentence shall be imposed for less than two years. Crews expressed hope that the faculty would clarify or overturn this previous stand in the next meeting of the Faculty Executive Committee.

Crews would not release further information concerning the case, but stated that transcripts of the trial are available on request from the office of the Dean of Students.

‘Operation Sidewinder’ Illustrates Youth Influence On Modern Plays

A REVIEW By DON HOYT

A Black Panther plot to drug the reservoir supplying an Air Force base; an amazing computer built in the shape of a rattlesnake which takes on a life of its own and rapes a comely blonde tourist; Hopi Indian cosmology prophesying the arrival of a star which will destroy the earth. All of this combines in the Lincoln Center Repertory Theatre production of Sam Shepard’s “Operation Sidewinder” to produce the effect of a hip Action Comic.

Sam Shepard is 26; “Operation Sidewinder” is the closest thing on the New York stage to “Easy Rider;” nightly a large contingent of casually dressed, long-haired students (student tickets are only $2) mingled with regular Lincoln Center patrons fashionably dressed society sophisticates from Fifth and Park Avenues. “Operation Sidewinder” is a phenomenon of the post-“Hair” theatre, for “Hair” was a watershed indeed.

According to Herbert Barrett Management of New York, “The Princeton Chamber Orchestra is a brilliant addition to the roster of great orchestras in the country, and has been acclaimed by press and public alike at numerous appearances. One hand-picked ensemble of the finest professional musicians is fashioned into a great instrument of distinction by its director, Nicholas Harsanyi, and many of its players have been associated with leading symphony orchestras and chamber ensembles throughout the country.

The conductor of the Princeton Chamber Orchestra is Nicholas Harsanyi. Hungarian by birth, Harsanyi studied at the University of Budapest Academy of Music under the celebrated master Hubay and under Leo Weiner. At Budapest, Harsanyi also became a member of the Budapest Symphony Orchestra. But in 1938 he came to the United States on a teaching fellowship at Westminster Choir College. Harsanyi accepted an invitation to become a lecturer at Princeton University in 1953; in the same year, the Princeton Chamber Orchestra made its debut. Now Mr. Harsanyi is music director of the Princeton Chamber Orchestra, the Philadelphia Chamber Orchestra, and the Colonial Symphony at Madison, New Jersey.

Clive Barnes of the N. Y. Times, for example, testified in Boston during a censorship trial that “Hair” was the most important musical since “Oklahoma.” What was important about “Hair” was even more important than its inclusion of nudity — “Hair” was for, by, and about young people. It was the first major youth musical.

Like “Hair,” “Sidewinder” makes use of a rock band, the Holy Modal Rounders, and, importantly, deals with situations young adults encounter today. Both are self-consciously modern and deserve most of their effect from spectacles of sight and sound. “Sidewinder” makes use of an incredible array of devices for its effect, all the way from ultraviolet and strobe lights to the creation of a mechanism which animates the sidewinder. Technology is much more a part of our lives than it ever can be for our parents, and sheer technical brilliance.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
JOHN FINE
RUSS MERRITT
STEVE ROADY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
DAVID GRISSETT
JOHN McLEAN

Sports Editor:
DON PARMAN

News Editor:
SCOTT DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Staff Reporters:
Jeff Allender, Bill Beckman, Neil Coghill, Ron Crockett, Bill Davenport, Bill Eskridge, Dan Graham, Rick Hart, Kes Woodward, Don Hoyt, George Kaneklides

Copy Editor:
STEVE CROSS

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Assistant Sports Editors:
ERNIE SHIPE
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
GREG SCOTT

Photographers:
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
GEORGE THOMAS

Sports Writers:
Howard Boyd, Rick Bush, Billy Cobb, Dick Downey, and Charlie Terrell.

Up ’n’ Coming:

Friday, April 3
2 p.m. Lecture E. Dr. Wohrmann L. Baxter Room, Chambers

Free University Spring Term To Begin On Tuesday

By JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer

With the stated goal of “attempting to develop an educational framework which will begin operation for the spring term,” the Free University program is meant to be a “clearinghouse of things that are needed here and, primarily, what people want taught—things you can't get in a normal curriculum."

The guidelines set up for the Free University are listed as follows: 1) Courses are non-credit, non-graded; 2) Anything can be taught; 3) Anyone who wishes can offer a course; 4) Each course group selects its own program of study, meets as long as it wants, and learns what it is interested in; and 5) Anyone can participate.

“We encourage students, members of the college community, and members of the community at large to take part.”

The committee also stated that “there are two assumptions about education, however, that lie behind the ideals of the Free University: one is that the desire for knowledge should spring from aroused interest in the subject matter rather than from aroused interest in grade points; the other is that true learning is the understanding of concepts rather than the memorizing and categorizing of data.

“For these reasons, we have attempted to present courses which are both meaningful and realistic. The Free University intends to complement the educational processes and curriculum of the college as much as possible,” the committee stated.

Some old and new courses are planned for this spring. An astronomy course will be offered, led by professor Robert J. Manning, plus a discussion course on Contemporary Theology with the Rev. R. Scott Woodmansee. Jack Crumbley will lead a group in learning what is needed to pass the written exam for a license as a private pilot, while professor Karl C. Garrison will explore viable alternatives to current educational environments to better fill the needs of people in society. Professor Robert Jackson will lead his students in a tour of the music of the 20th Century. Bart McCormick heads a group of students intent upon learning or enhancing their skill in and understanding of the guitar.

WESTERN AUTO
Main St. Davidson, N. C.
Phone 892-1496

Saturday, April 4
8 a.m. Graduate Business Test Chambers Basement

8:15 p.m. Artist’s Series Love Auditorium Princeton Chamber OrchestraProvide as total Scott serves as co-chairman 9 a.m. Area II Examination 310 Chambers an education as possible,” of the Free University Co- 9 a.m. Area V Examination 120 Chambers the Free University will be- ordinating Committee, the 8 p.m. Track Richardson Stadium High Point College Courts Declares 10 a.m. Tennis Lexington, Va. University of Virginia 3 p.m. Meeting Perkins Auditorium Dean Rusk with History Classes 9:30 p.m. Morrison Room

AN ANALYSIS By ED SHOAF Editor-in-Chief

Tuesday, April 7 10 a.m. Meeting Perkins Auditorium Dean Rusk with Political Science Classes 2 p.m. Meeting Perkins Auditorium Dean Rusk with Political Science and Economics Classes 3 p.m. Track Winston-Salem Wake Forest 8:15 p.m. Reynolds Lecture Love Auditorium Dean Rusk: “Reflections of the Present Scene”

Wednesday, April 8 10 a.m. Meeting Lexington, Va. George Washington University 10 a.m. Meeting Baxter Room, Chambers Dean Rusk with Political Science Classes

Thursday, April 9 10 a.m. Movie Morrison Room “The Schizophrenia of Working for War” 8 p.m. Concert Hodson Hall The Agnes Scott Glee Club 9 p.m. Party Union Lobby Morrison Room

Friday, April 10 8 p.m. Easter Drama Morrison Room “In the Dark a Candle Lit”

Saturday, April 11 8 a.m. Law School Admissions Chambers Basement 9 a.m. Make-Up Examination for Winter Term 9 a.m. Area I Examination 124 Chambers 9 a.m. Area II Examination 124 Chambers 3 p.m. Track Richardson Stadium The Citadel

Sunday, April 12 4 p.m. Concert Hodson Hall Comfort Ensemble

Curfews for women in the fraternity houses have been persistently maligned by Burts for their recommendations. After considering the matter, the IFC sent a resolution back to Burts suggesting that curfews at the fraternity houses should be abolished. According to current IFC President Johnny Bruner, students then claimed that the IFC ideas were inconsistent with the philosophy of the Code. The Administration defended the curfews on the grounds that they were necessary for the welfare of women visitors. Burts publicly defended the midnight curfews in a question session between students and members of the administration during a meeting. Burts said that he would not state that curfews now existed. Neither would he state that curfews did not exist. Instead, he told the reporter that he could only say the rules were in a state of "limbo."

Shortly after that time, the Dean's Council began considering the entire question of rules on student conduct as such were affected by the Code. The Dean's Council voted to suspend experimentally curfews for the 1969 Midwinters and Spring Frolics weekends. The responsibility for permanent revision of the curfews was passed to the Student Life Committee in early May of that year. At that time, it was announced that a decision would be given to the students before the end of the academic year. No decision was reached, however, and action on the matter was deferred until the start of the present academic year.

Senate Approves Proposal For Student Representation By JOHN FINE Associate Editor

SGA on Wednesday night the Senate passed without opposition a proposal to seat two seniors on the Admissions Committee. Implementation of the proposal requires a change in the Faculty Constitution to permit student representation as well as concurrence from the faculty and trustees. An earlier proposal calling for non-voting students was withdrawn by the SGA leadership because it did not give students an active voice in policy and had not been formulated with Admissions Committee cooperation, Coble said.

The present representation proposal creates two student positions on the Admissions Committee filled from the rising senior class by a selection committee composed of three members of the SGA Senate and three members of the Admissions Committee. A majority vote of the selection committee would be required to confirm nominees, who would then serve their entire senior year. The Senate defeated an amendment to the proposal which would have seated a junior and a senior on the committee. Opposition to the amendment centered around the handling of confidential information about applicants.

The Faculty Constitution amendment procedure requires two weeks' written notice before the first date of consideration and three weeks' lapse between initial proposal and final passage by a majority vote and confirmation by a 3/4 vote. The spring meeting of the trustees is scheduled for April 23, ruling out passage of the proposal until next fall.

In other action, a tentative self-scheduled exams proposal and a skeleton SGA-sponsored summer internship program were committed for further study. Both of the alternatives submitted on self-scheduled exams suggested that the registrar’s office act as the intermediary between student and faculty.

OPEN 9-8 The Hub MONDAY - SATURDAY

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST IN PIZZA and SPAGHETTI FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA and brochure at NO OBLIGATION Send coupon below MI-CON LABORATORIES, INC. 520 Bonner Road Wauconda, Illinois 60084

NAME ADDRESS CITY

LEARN TO DIVE — snorkel. The class will meet on Monday and Wednesday evenings from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m. for nine weeks. Students completing the course receive one hour of credit in physical education. All interested persons are invited to an open meeting to be held in the Blue Room of the College Union at 7:00 p.m. on Monday, Apr. 6. For additional information call Charlotte 333-3475 (Day) or JA3-4762 (Night).

SCUBATEER DIVER TRAINING 1012 Sedgefield Rd. Charlotte, N. C. 28209

GET COLLEGE CREDIT A college credit course in Scuba Diving will be offered on the Davidson campus this term. Use of Scuba equipment and textbook included with course; students furnish own mask, fins and snorkel. $25.00

Holiday Magazine New York

Some people will say “The Damned” goes too far. We don’t think so. New York Times doesn’t think so and neither does Saturday Review, Playboy, TV's Today Show, The Village Voice, Group They call it “The year’s ultimate spectacle, a rare treat, hypnotic and fascinating, a shattering experience, a masterpiece, a monumental achievement!" NO ONE UNDER 17 ADMITTED (Age limit may vary in certain areas)

STARTS FRIDAY, APRIL 3rd PLAZA THEATRE 1610 CENTRAL AVE. PHONE 334-1414