The Vol. LIX No. Nine
Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
NOVEMBER 5, 1971

(Staff photo by Barnes)

IN ABSENCE OF THE PRESIDENT...
Vice President Bevan referees Faculty meeting.

Governance Causes
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

Concerned over the direction of campus governance, the faculty Tuesday vetoed all proposed amendments to their constitution and delayed the appointment of two professors to the Trustee Governance Committee.

The faculty vote on the second reading of a proposed amendment which would have allowed student membership on the Admissions Committee failed to meet the three-fourths requirement. The faculty vote on the second reading of an amendment which would have allowed student membership on the Budget, Building and Grounds Committee also failed to meet the three-fourths requirement. The first reading of a third amendment which would have allowed student attendance at faculty meetings failed even to get a majority vote.

However, Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, who chaired the meeting in the...

Clodfelter Questions Article In New Trustee By-Laws
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

Student Body President Danny Clodfelter expressed concern over the tone and some specifics of the newly-adopted trustee by-laws in a letter written this week to Board Chairman Warner L. Hall.

Clodfelter referred specifically to the new section (Article VI) of the by-laws which deals with the chartering and operation of faculty and student organizations. Concerning section 1, which says that all faculty and student constitutional documents must be approved by the trustees, Clodfelter asked whether such constitutions are now invalid, or does the constitution remain in force pending Board action or further recommendation from the governance committee.

He also expressed puzzlement as to why this provision was included when in no other portion of the by-laws or in any other document does the board recognize the SGA as an official body with its own area of delegated authority. “Rather than clarifying the status of the SGA on campus, the provisions of section 1 only serve to further confuse an already impossibly complex authority structure,” Clodfelter said.

Concerning Section 2, which allows the president to suspend action of any student or faculty organization, Clodfelter said he could not understand why the president should have such authority over a constituted group if their action is within the powers granted to that group. Or if this section is to be taken to mean that all power on campus centers in the president or remains residual with the president, this “violates every notion of shared authority on the campus and creates potential dangers against which there are presently no guarantees save goodwill.”

Speaking to the final section in Article VI which subjects initial chartering of all campus organizations to approval of the president, Clodfelter said, “this strikes me as particularly abhorrent in giving the power to open or close the campus to an organization to one man without further specifying the conditions under which charters are granted and the process which must be followed in suspending such charters.”

“Particularly sensitive... is the issue of the independence and freedom of student publications,” Clodfelter said, “I know that in the past there have been expressions of disapproval of THE DAVIDSONIAN in particular and while I’m not imputing any serious intentions here, I can only be uneasy about the absence of guarantees which in extraordinary circumstances might prove necessary.”

Clodfelter expressed fear of the failure of campus constituencies to understand the new by-laws in the midst of present campus turmoil involving campus governance. “For this reason alone I would question the wisdom of passing the new by-laws at this time,” he said. “What I am really saying is that more than anything else the changes embodied in Article VI are inopportune and impolitic,” he said.

Clodfelter’s statements are the second blast which the trustees have received this week concerning the newly-adopted by-laws. The faculty Tuesday expressed similar questions regarding the broad powers given to the president.Absence of the president, indicated that faculty concern over the appointment of two professors to the governance committee may have influenced the previous votes. "When we came to these appointments on the agenda, I made a statement of what I understood to be the function of the Governance Committee, and I read the definition of the committee as defined by the trustees," Bevan said. "Following my presentation, Dr. Brinkley made a prepared presentation," Bevan continued. "After deliberation, it was moved to table the motion to appoint the professors to the committee. This motion was adopted. It was felt that the implications of discussion of total college governance was a matter of deliberation at a time when the president is here," Bevan said.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. had left for India Tuesday, where he will finalize plans for the Baroda University program. "Many faculty members also felt that they should look at the total academic governance before they make individual changes," Bevan said. The faculty recessed without consideration of the co-curricular board proposal, another amendment to the constitution, and without considering the report from the honorary degrees committee. Bevan said he felt the meeting was a "healthy airing of points of view and differences," and he said the faculty will consider the appointments when the president returns later this month.

Student Body President Danny Clodfelter expressed disappointment over the faculty’s actions. "It is unfortunate that our proposals had to be the basis for their debate on campus governance," he said. "But I think we have got to see the failure of these amendments to pass in the context of the question concerning the governance committee. We will try to reach a resolution on some of the doubts raised on campus governance and then come back to these specific concerns," Clodfelter said.

During the debate on the Governance Committee issue, Associate Professor of Philosophy Alan Brinkley presented a report in which he declared that "Davidson College has been seized by a severe crisis of confidence." "Recent events have made it clear that the trustees of Davidson College do not have confidence that the members of the faculty are qualified to share responsibility in the government of the college," Brinkley said. "Without the confidence and (See FACULTY, Page 8)

EPC Changes Exam Period To Wednesday-Saturday

By DON PARMAN
Editor-in-Chief

Don’t trust the Davidson College Catalog. At least don't trust the calendar which is printed in this year's book. Actions taken by the faculty’s Educational Policy Committee have changed the examination period from the dates listed in the catalog. Examinations are now set to run from November 17, a Wednesday, to November 20, a Saturday. There will be no pre-exam study day, although a student may choose to take one under the self-scheduled examination policy.

Revelation of the change has provoked considerable dissatisfaction among the student body, many of whom had planned on the scheduled period which was to run through Tuesday, November 23. Among the complaints are those that students with three exams have little time for study between their examinations and the football game on Saturday. The football players will not be able to take exams on Saturday, creating a three-day exam period for those involved.

Senior Jody Turner, student member of the EPC, raised a question over the examination schedule at last week’s EPC meeting. His motion for an extension to include November 22 in the period died from lack of a second. Sophomore Doug Brown, the other student representative, did not second the motion. "I was not aware of any dissatisfaction on the part of the students with regard to the examination period. I'm sorry to find that these conditions exist," said Brown.

Turner stated, "I used the football team as an example of the sort of problem that many students have with the present schedule. The thinking of the committee seemed to be that the cost of keeping the physical plant open and the cost of conducting the examinations was too high for the 20 or 30 students who usually take the exams the last day."

With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for the fall term.