January 15, 1971

The Davidsonian

Friday, January 15
Saturday, January 16
Sunday, January 17
Monday, January 18
Rehearsal:
Tuesday, January 19
10 a.m. Howard Hughes
7:30 p.m. Symposium:
8:03 p.m. Film:
Wednesday, January 20
8 p.m. Film:
8:15 p.m. Artists Series:
Friday, January 22
7:30 p.m. Hungry
10:03 p.m. Film:

Coble Talks About Term

With elections drawing nigh and the frantic pace of his administration somewhat slowed by an after-Christmas lull, SGA President Ran
Coble agreed to sit down with THE DAVIDSONIAN and review the past year politically. Relaxing over coffee in the Hub,
Coble confided that he saw the last year as one of consolidation for the still young SGA. “We turned in
new directions,” Coble said, “and as a result, the Senate was able to take far more meaningful action than ever
before.

“By avoiding off-campus and national issues we were able to circumvent much of the controversy and bickering of past years.
Similarly, by avoiding on-campus issues we cleared the Senate floor of debate to make way for action,” Coble said.

When asked about his or rather the SGA’s greatest accomplishment over the past year, Coble remarked that it had to
be the extension of the “course drop” period from one to two weeks. “Of course I had to be disappointed
that the proposed five-week period was rejected,” he said. “I would have compromised with a period of one lunar month
in length, but apparently the faculty decided to be more cautious than that.”

Astute observers of the Davidson political scene have long speculated on the long-range effects of Coble’s victory last year over
Tom Opie and Lyman Parrigin in the SGA election. Giving his own views on that campaign, Coble said, “Tom was
certainly a good candidate for the position but perhaps it's just as well that he lost. I hear he is
at work in the Honors College synthesizing some sort of drug for the chemistry department. Personally, I would not like
to see that word (drug) mentioned in the Senate because it might cause a needless consideration of campus issues: First
drugs then sex, really the Senate should not bother it.”

Midwinters (Continued From Page 1)

The three acts are Ma Ho Pin and her “death-defying” slide for life, the Great Bolo and his swing-bar show,
and the Special Forces paratroop team from Fort Bragg. Said Smith of the plan, “I think it is a good
one. More people turned out for the parachutist show (at Homecoming of this year) than I have ever seen at
a big weekend event. Also,” Smith said, “with the extra money we can now spend on these acts it will
be possible to have at least one of them going at almost every minute during the weekend.”

All three men interviewed said they felt these changes should stifle completely former criticisms of their work. “I hope especially
that THE DAVIDSONIAN will cease its unfounded and destructive criticisms,” Skelton said.

Relics of Noah’s Ark

According to the preliminary findings released yesterday by a special archaeological investigative team, the artifacts discovered last summer by Davidson
religion professor Dr. Max E. Polley are in all probability relics from Noah's Ark. The investigative team, which has been
intensely analyzing and evaluating Polley’s findings, drew special attention to three articles discovered by Polley during his archaeological dig near
Mount Ararat in the Middle East last summer. First, the archaeologists cited a large earthen oven, believed to have served
the dual purpose of heating the living quarters of the Noah family and cooking the food forthe ship's human occupants.
It was also pointed out by the investigators that such an object would serve to protect the family from some
of the more aggressive carnivores that shared the Ark’s quarters.

A small bronze nail was also described by the archaeologist as being a "very significant find." The nail was very
rusty and appeared to have been put through much use. Furthermore, inscribed on the side of the nail were the
remaining etchings of an ancient Hebrew phrase which scholars have loosely translated as "in Yahweh we trust."

Finally, and most significantly, the archaeologists noted a much-decayed axe-hewn plank of wood. Through chemical analysis, the wood was determined
to be from the cedar forests of the fertile crescent of the Middle East, used primarily for boats. The fact
that the plank had been gnawed from the inside greatly impressed the investigating team, especially since the teeth markings appear
to have been made by at least five different species of animals. Through Carbon-14 dating procedures, the archaeologists have determined
that the relics are dated from 4021 to 4033 B.C., around the same period of time when Biblical scholars have
traditionally placed the Great Flood.

The three artifacts, along with Polley's other findings, have recently been placed on display for the general public in the
Stowe Galleries of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Abraham Goldstein, leading Hebrew archaeologist representing the University of Upper Brooklyn, confirmed
the findings as being authentic during his recent visit to the Davidson campus. "This is possibly the greatest archaeological discovery
since Napoleon's men unearthed the Rosetta Stone in Egypt," he said. "The significance of such a find is staggering. We
may now actually have within our grasp the key to discovering the missing link." Goldstein would not elaborate, however.

Religious leaders throughout the world have reacted to the discovery in varied ways. Christian and Jewish leaders, however, have been
most enthusiastic. The Rev. William Graham, noted Biblical expert and friend of God, when informed of the conclusions of the
investigative team, said that Polley's discovery "simply proves what God has been telling me for years, that He does work
in mysterious ways, even to the extent of using human science and technology. This just all goes to show that
science does prove the authenticity of the Bible and the existence of God."

Pope Paul VI, notified of the discovery in his Vatican headquarters, went immediately into seclusion for "prayer, meditation, and celebration,"
according to Vatican sources. However, it has been reported that he plans to make a pilgrimage to Davidson to view
the artifacts, after which he will retire from public life.

Tastee-Freez of Cornelius
892-8468
10-9 P.M.
BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET
“It’s Incomparable”
Sandwiches — Pizza
Sundaes
50 FLAVOR SHAKES

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA PANTS
1522 East Fourth St.
“Largest selection of flares, jeans, bell-bottoms in Charlotte”
Owned & Operated by people who know what you want.
