| 4 Page Two February 5, 1971 @be Davidsontas

Feminists Speak At Queens

Two nationally-known proponents of women's rights will be the keynote speakers for the Queens College Symposium, “The American Women: Feminism-Femininity," to be held Monday and Tuesday.

Kate Millett, the militant and controversial spokeswoman for the women’s liberation movement, will be the featured guest, along with Elizabeth Koontz, the director of the Women’s Bureau of the U.S. Department of Labor.

Ms. Millett (“Ms.” is a term adopted by the women’s liberation movement which does not indicate marital status) is the author of the best-seller, “Sexual Politics,” and was recently featured on the cover of “Time” magazine. She will speak at 10 Tuesday morning on the role of women in society.

Mrs. Koontz, who has been director of the Women’s Bureau for two years, is also a delegate to the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women, and was the first black to serve in either position. She is also a former president of the National Education Association. Mrs. Koontz will speak Monday morning at 10.

At 1:30 Monday afternoon, a panel discussion on “The Concept of Femininity” will be held. Five men will make up the panel, including Joe Smith, associate editor and columnist of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

At the same time on Tuesday afternoon, another panel discussion, entitled “The Female Body—Man in Control?” will be held. Jimmy Trussel, a Davidson senior and author of “The Loving Book,” a manual on birth control, will be one of the participants.

Martha Talley, Julie Pristash, and Becca Hodges are serving as co-chairwomen for the symposium. All three see the symposium as potentially having an important effect on the Queens students and on all others who attend.

“Hopefully, the symposium will serve to make the Queens students aware of the potential of the American woman," Talley said. “Also, we hope that it will make each woman more aware of her own potential and of the discrimination that she must overcome because of her womanhood.”

Hodges pointed out that the symposium actually has a very broad focus. “Contrary to popular belief it is not a symposium on Women’s lib, per se. We want to expose the potential of the American woman and make the girls around here more aware of their own potential. Koontz and Millett simply represent various facets of this potential.”

Senate Schedules Davis Lecture

Rennie Davis, one of the notorious Chicago Seven, has been contracted by the SGA to speak on the Davidson campus March 1. SGA President Ran Coble said, “He’s inflammatory and anti-establishment, which is something this campus has never seen. From what I understand, he’s one of the more articulate of the Chicago Seven. We want somebody from that genre so that the speakers the SGA has sponsored this year will compose a balanced program.”

Coble remarked that getting speakers is always a haphazard task, and that this case was no exception. A former Davidson student Tom Thompson contacted Davis last summer and wanted him to come to Davidson to speak. Thompson got in touch with Coble soon after and attempts to get Davis began early in the school year.

AN ANALYSIS By STEVE CROSS Copy Editor

For various reasons, 15 Davidson students have left school since the start of the year. According to the Dean of Students’ Office, they include five who transferred to other schools, four who left to take jobs, and six who reported a “loss of educational motivation.”

Associate Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
ADRIAN LONG
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

Copy Editors:
STEVE CROSS
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Contributors this week:
Scott Davidson, Peter Michael, Howard Boyd, and Windy March.

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Ass’t Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS
DARYL WILLIAMS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
ROGER MANLEY
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
BOB STRAND
Dave Tierney

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

A REVIEW By SCOTT DAVIDSON

This week, the Hungry I is featuring a slender gangling country-folk singer called Townes Van Zandt. Spotlighted against the black curtain backdrop of the Union Bar, Van Zandt presents a small, intimate performance that is often quite pleasant. Pleasant, but not moving or exciting or stimulating.Most of his songs are, apparently, his own (he did a nice rendition of "John Wesley Harding," though). With the exception of a haunting ballad called "Nothing," they are undistinguished and quickly forgotten. The music can be lifting and sweet, and often was possessive of a rhythmic throbbing that propelled the song comfortably through to its conclusion. But the lyrics were simple-minded, poorly rhymed, and soporific. Van Zandt seemed to have attempted a fusion of humor and profundity, and achieved neither.

Leave Davidson

One of the work dropouts was senior Jack Caldwell. According to his brother, sophomore Paul Caldwell, Jack took three courses at Georgia Tech last summer to make up for the Winter term absence, and left school to work at the end of the Fall term. His brother Paul expects him to return at the beginning of the spring term, and graduate with his class. Friends of seniors Jeff Brantley and Chris Bickley say they too will be back later in the year. The other student who dropped out to work was Marshall Case, a junior pre-med major, who is now working in a hospital in Washington, D.C. Danny Clodfelter, a former roommate, said that Case would return to school in the Spring term.

Of the five transferees, four were freshmen who were dissatisfied with Davidson for various reasons. Freshman Darrell Bailey transferred to Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio, in order to get better music courses for his music major. Freshman William Raman transferred to the University of Texas at Austin to take engineering courses which he could not get at Davidson. Two other freshmen, Randy Stepp and Greg Strong, transferred to schools closer to their homes. Junior Keith Lindloff, according to his roommate, transferred to the University of Texas at Austin "because his girlfriend lives there."

The six who left because of a "loss of academic motivation" appear to have hit the nail on the head. Among this group were two seniors, two sophomores, a junior, and a freshman. The freshman was Jack Parker, who, according to a hallmate, was hospitalized early in the term, got behind in his courses, cut them a great deal when he came back, and dropped out before the end of the term. The hallmate recalled that he was very apathetic about Davidson in general. The junior who lost his "motivation" was Ovid Bailey, Darrell's brother. Friends of Bailey recall that he just wanted to "get away" for a while.

No information is available on the attrition rate for past years. The Dean of Students' Office, the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid, the Academic Vice-President's Office, and the Registrar's Office denied any profile or tabulation of students in past years who have dropped out of Davidson. "I've only been in this office for three weeks," said Dean of Students William H. Terry.

What resulted were lines like, "Heaven ain't bad, but you don't get things done," and, "Went back to the house in about an hour, everybody drinking whiskey sours." Van Zandt's running patter between songs didn't transcend his material. He clinched a long, drawn-out narrative of a weekend drunk with, "It would have been embarrassing if I hadn't passed out." That was the funny line. Or he provides background for songs by explaining that they were written in an economics class, or with his pet fly ("a weird fly").

Despite his shortcomings, Van Zandt still has a nice musical style. His voice is mellow and soothing; his manner is quiet and subdued. I would suspect that this intimacy would be hopelessly drowned in the more spacious surroundings of the Morrison Room, where he plays this weekend. Townes Van Zandt does not live up to the standards of previous Hungry d performers. But it is, nevertheless, a pleasant performance. Pleasant, not moving or exciting or stimulating.

Berry (Continued from Page 1)

system: will work out. Given a freshman class which does not come in as opinionated on the fraternity question and a senior class not as torn by the issue as this year’s, the new system can work." He acknowledged the fact that it was going to be extremely difficult for the houses to survive off campus. Fraternities that choose to move off campus will be confronted by the tremendous expenses of property and house, compounded by the rising costs of college. "The groups now labeled national fraternity, if they remained on campus, could maintain the same kind of characteristics that their houses take pride in with a system of self-selection."