FEC To Contemplate Open Faculty Meetings
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

The Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) will consider Tuesday three proposals drafted by a subcommittee of students and professors which would allow student participation in faculty meetings. The FEC will presumably act on these proposals Tuesday and send recommendations to the faculty for consideration at their meeting on May 4.

“The purpose in drafting three separate proposals is to allow the faculty to pick and choose what they like and do not like about the different suggestions,” said Student Body President Danny Clodfelter. “The subcommittee recognizes the problems involved in opening these meetings; however, we feel there are ways to solve these difficulties,” he said.

The first proposal recommends that the faculty designate a certain number of seats, not fewer than 15, that would be open to any member of the student body. Students desiring to attend faculty meetings would sign up in the Academic Vice President's office in advance of the meeting. The first names on the list would be permitted to attend. These students would be given certain floor privileges but no vote. Faculty meetings could be closed only by a three-fourths vote of those present. “Under such a vote,” said the proposal, “visitors shall leave the meeting, but shall be permitted to return when the matter which led to the desire for closing the meetings has been disposed of. When appropriate, visitors shall be informed of any official action taken by the faculty in closed session.”

The second proposal allows for the attendance of the Student Body President and Vice President as well as all students on faculty committees. Under this proposal, the faculty would allow these students certain floor privileges but no vote. And as stated in the first proposal, the meetings could be closed by a three-fourths vote of those present.

The third proposal allows for attendance and voting privileges of the President and Vice President of the Student Body and student representatives on the Educational Policy Committee and the Student Life Committee. Faculty meetings could be closed only by a three-fourths vote of those present. “It is my feeling that the faculty has no business meeting behind closed doors when they are deliberating on issues which directly affect the students,” said Clodfelter.

Vol. LX, No. 23

EPC Drafts New P.E. Program
By WINDY MARCH
Staff Writer

The physical education department and the Educational Policy Committee have drafted a plan for a new P.E. program at Davidson. The plan will go to the Student Body and student representatives on the Educational Policy Committee and the Student Life Committee.

Houses Lose Social Funds
By ALEC HOON
News Editor

A resolution to cut off social funds to the fraternities excluding freshmen from participation in their social life overwhelmingly passed the student senate Monday night. The SGA version of the proposal was then sent to the Student Life Committee (SLC), where on Tuesday afternoon it was approved with one minor addition. The final SLC version reads: “Any freshman with a complaint about exclusion from participation in the activities of a house to which he is assigned should notify the Dean of Students or may register a complaint with the SLC. If fifty percent of the freshmen assigned to a given house sign a statement that they are being excluded from the social life of the house, all college-provided social fees to the house shall be suspended immediately, pending final action from the SLC.”

The Dean of Students was requested to notify fraternity presidents of the senate’s resolution and the SLC action. When asked about the immediate repercussions of the action, Dean of Students Will H. Terry stated, “We will pay the board bills to all fraternities participating in self-selection as soon as possible. However, the social fees will be withheld for one week.” If no complaints are registered, the normal fee of ten dollars per student per month will be sent to the houses involved in the new social system.

In other senate action, 20 dollars was appropriated to arm student volunteers with flashlights and whistles to prevent any further theft of auto parts from college parking lots. Reporting to the SGA, senior Frank Rader stated that approximately 30 car gas caps and miscellaneous motorcycle parts have already been stolen this year. Rader stated that presently “there is only one man on security duty at night. It is physically impossible for him to provide adequate security for all parked cars in addition to his other responsibilities.”

Rising sophomore Woody Connette, reporting for the Union Food Committee, outlined a budget request for 106 dollars to investigate the food catering services at seven other schools. The senate unanimously approved the request.

Rising Senior Senator Cecil Burney introduced a motion in the senate for the college to rehire Dr. Meredith Hall as the clinical psychologist next year. Burney urged an immediate change in the budget priorities to allow Dr. Hall to return. The motion passed by a unanimous vote.me there is something to be gained by the introduction of student ideas in faculty discussion. Admittedly, this should be balanced by the experience of the faculty, but I don't feel the faculty has a monopoly on experience,” he said.

Davidsonian: Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

The faculty on May 4 for a final vote. Some required P.E. would continue under the new plan, but Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan estimated that about half the new students would be exempt from requirements. Under the new program, the student would have to show proficiency in four individual sports and one team sport.

The student would be required to take P.E. to achieve proficiency in up to four of the individual areas and one team area. The full length of the entire course would be six quarters. Bevan, who was confident that the faculty would agree to the new program, said in an interview Wednesday that the emphasis in the P.E. program was being shifted from simple attendance to proficiency. This, he said, expresses the college policy that physical activities are an important part of normal life and therefore of education. He further said that the college could now deal with the P.E. students as individuals, treating each according to his needs.

“The success or failure of the program,” Bevan said, “will depend on the enthusiasm of the staff, and the enthusiasm they are able to generate in the students.” He said there were no plans to add additional staff to the P.E. department, and that the new program was formulated so that the existing staff could handle it. The student will plan his own courses, with voluntary attendance. He will receive one grade, “S,” upon satisfactory demonstration of proficiency in that area. There will be regular classes and tutorials. Service classes in lifesaving and first aid will be available. Those who have partially completed the present P.E. requirements will probably have their requirements adjusted on an individual basis, Bevan said. Participation in intercollegiate athletics will count as one activity toward fulfilling the requirement.

White Still

Professor of Psychology John D. Kelton, who was a faculty member on the subcommittee, said he is “hesitant and apprehensive” about the issue of open faculty meetings. “On the one hand there ought to be an avenue for student input; however, the quality of relationship and mutual understanding within faculty meetings might be lost if nonfaculty were present,” Kelton said.

APRIL 23, 1971

Plan

The individual sports could be gymnastics, intermediate swimming, Senior Lifesaving, Water Safety Instruction, Red Cross first aid, weight training, canoeing, scuba diving, sailing, water skiing, fencing, handball, tennis, golf, bowling, or snow skiing. Team sports include varsity sports, flickerball, softball, and volleyball.

Optimistic Despite Slow Deposits

Despite a slow start in tuition deposit returns, Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White remains confident that next fall’s freshman class “will be within five of what we expected.” After yesterday's morning mail, the college had received the hundred-dollar deposit from only 95 applicants with the May 1 deadline drawing near. White indicated that while this is somewhat lower than previous years, there are circumstances which may have contributed to the low initial response.

“The number we receive has risen steadily over the past several days,” White said. “Thursday we received 15, Wednesday nine, and Tuesday just four. We frequently get a large number of deposits at the deadline date.” Another problem which has hampered the early returns has been a mailing mix-up. According to White, the acceptance letter which was mailed urged all applicants to wait until they received a copy of the Code of Responsibility before they made their final decision. A mix-up in the mailing room resulted in the later mailing of the code by third-class mail. Many applicants received their copies in the last several days.

“I am concerned, worried is too strong a word, about the size of next year's class, but in both directions,” said White. “Any time you overaccept as we do, you run the risk of a class too small or too big. But the experience of the last 10 years tells us that with the waiting list we will come within five of our goal.” White said that the admissions office is planning on a freshman enrollment of about 310 in the fall, one of the largest classes in the history of the college. The housing office has already reserved all of Watts, Cannon, and East dormitories for the freshman class.

In an attempt to influence applicants, the admissions office is furnishing postpaid postcards for present students to write to those accepted. Faculty members are also being asked to write to those who have been accepted. President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan have sent a joint letter to those accepted, terming Davidson a “great institution.”