KOURY SERVES.

Sophomore Bob Koury

The Davidsonian

April 9, 1971

Page Seven

(Staff photos by Lyle and Doty)

AND RETURNS

is the youngest player in recent years to hold the number one spot for Davidson.

Sophomore Koury Leads Netters

By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

For the first time in recent history, Davidson's number one tennis player is only a sophomore.

Coach Harry Fogleman said, “Bob Koury is the youngest number one player I've had since I’ve been here.”

Koury, a resident of Burlington, was urged to begin taking tennis lessons by his mother when he was just nine.

“I won some little tournament in New Orleans where I was taking lessons,” Koury said, “and that made me feel
like I was really hot stuff. I began playing a lot in the summer after that.”

He played in many tourneys after that one, and won often. He took the North Carolina twelve years and under
title when he was twelve, and later added the sixteen and under and eighteen and under crowns.

Koury also won the state high school tennis tournament his junior and senior years after having been runner-up his sophomore
year.

Last year, Koury played at the number three spot for Davidson. This season, he plays at the number one position
in the doubles along with Jeff Dumansky as well as being the top singles player.

“I play mainly from power,” Koury commented, “I have a pretty good serve, and I don't use much finesse.”

Fogleman seemed very pleased with the progress of his young star and said, “Koury can become one of the best
college players I have had in my 26 years of coaching. He has improved a lot and his net game
has gotten much better. He still needs to work on strategy and court sense, but he has a classic stroke.

“Bob is very coachable,” Fogleman continued, “He has a good temperament on the court.”

Koury likewise praised his coach, “Coach Fogleman helped me with my forehand and volleys a lot,” he stated, “and he
always helps with strategy.”

As for future plans in the world of tennis, Koury is unsure. He helped at the Davidson summer tennis camp
last year and will do so again this year. “I think maybe I'd like to work at a tennis club
as a pro some time too,” said Koury.

Last week the netters beat Wake Forest here and then took two from Furman and Emory on the road.

Tuesday after, they tied Indiana 3-3 in a match that was called for rain.

This afternoon the ‘Cats face a full week as they meet Harvard and tomorrow they take on the Cavaliers of
Virginia.

The netmen face a full schedule next week as they will tackle three Southern Conference rivals, meeting VMI Monday, Richmond
Tuesday, and The Citadel Wednesday.

‘Cat Skippers To Compete In Two Weekend Regattas

By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

The Davidson sailing team made an improved showing over its season opener in taking second place in the Davidson Regatta.

The regatta, held March 27 at the Lake Norman campus, saw Davidson finish behind The Citadel and ahead of South
Carolina, Clemson, and Tennessee.

The Wildcats, in the first regatta of the season, had lost to all these teams except Tennessee.

Davidson was steered to its second-place finish by Jim Hunter and Daryl Douglas in the “A” division and Al Lundy
and Mark Leonard in the “B” division.

The boatsmen will try to continue their upswing this weekend, when they participate in two regattas.

Saturday morning the Wildcats will race the Lake Norman Yacht Club at the lake campus.

Sunday, the ‘Cats journey to Georgia to sail in a regatta sponsored by Georgia Tech.

Although the races in Georgia will be run in a type of boat which the Davidson team has never used,
Hunter was not pessimistic about the team’s chances.

“This promises to be a real good regatta. I think our chances of winning are as good as anybody else’s.”

Hunter will skipper the Davidson “A” division entry, while Al Lundy will probably fill the same post in the “B”
section.

Hunter said that all the teams which sailed at Davidson March 27 have been invited to the Georgia Tech contest.

“I’m real optimistic about this regatta and the rest of the season,” said Hunter, “but there are so many variables
in sailing that it is impossible to predict what will happen.”

(Staff photo by Doty)

THREE YEARS BEHIND THE MAST
Allen Lundy skippers his boat on Lake Norman.

Whatever you want, we’ve got

ARMY - NAVY STORE

Boots

Hunting and Fishing Supplies

Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus

Camping Equipment

170 N. Main

Mooresville, N. C.

The Hub

OPEN 9-8

MONDAY - SATURDAY
