LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Foreign Students Criticize Davidson

To The Editor:

The first thing that struck me on seeing Davidson College was the classical-revivalist style of architecture; a uniformity of design
that with regard to a few buildings is harmonious, but in others it becomes painfully contrived. However, the drawbacks of
the architecture, which of course is only a matter of taste, can easily be tolerated unless one considers what these
may symbolize about the life of the College within those buildings.

As I became more acquainted with the life at Davidson, I found that the traditionalism and conformity were not merely
characteristics of the facade. I found that a large proportion of students here are sons of Davidson alumni and also
a significant section of the faculty are former Davidson students. This of course maintains a sense of continuity and links
with the past but also creates an amount of in-breeding which may not be healthy for the College. Many of
the students are from similar backgrounds, mostly middle- and upper middle-class, which gives the College its elitist flavor. It was
also noticeable that there were only a very few black students attending the College.

I found also that the atmosphere at Davidson was almost Spartan. One soon realizes that the paucity of social life
is not only due to the lack of women, but that there are no facilities provided in the town of
Davidson and virtually none on the campus. By this time such pleasant aspects of being in a sleepy little town
as the unhurried and relaxing atmosphere, people always having time to say a few words, the advantage of being far
removed from the dirt and bustle of a big city, soon turn sour as the unrelieved dullness of College life
makes itself felt. The only facilities that are offered are the fraternities, which themselves are experiencing a period of transition.
It seems a pity that these small places, which are perforce restricted in what they can provide, are not supplemented
by a more active program given by the student’s Union.

The academic life also seems to be lacking in stimulation and vitality. It appears much emphasis is placed upon lectures
that give little opportunity for constructive feedback from the students. When discussion groups are used it appears that both students
and faculty are unfamiliar with the technique to derive sufficient benefit from them. In addition, the courses on the whole
are rigidly structured owing to the importance given to periodic tests and final examinations. This does not allow for much
digression and gives students little opportunity to pursue in depth particular areas which interest them because it is necessary to
cover all the required course work (unless you are one of the fortunate few in the Honors College). It also
leads in some degree to a mirroring of attitudes of the teacher because students have to regurgitate in the examinations
what has been spoon-fed to them by the professors, and there is little time to cover controversial areas in the
subject or the incentive to express unorthodox opinions.

Something else which I discovered at Davidson was the almost moribund state of student politics. I found that student representation
on important policy-making committees was small or non-existent, and in many cases the students only had observer status. There are
no meetings of the student body to provide a forum for debate about issues concerning the College, nor an effectual
means of communicating to the students what happens in the SGA and in the College administration. THE DAVIDSONIAN appears more
like a church magazine rather than a student publication. I was told how many of the decisions affecting student life
were influenced by the opinions and wishes of the alumni, another means whereby traditionalism is able to become entrenched. I
am not trying to denigrate tradition per se but when it subordinates the needs of the students then I feel
it has a deleterious influence upon the College.

After a few weeks at Davidson I was introduced to the cattle-market that goes under the name of dating. I
carefully avoided the more blatant illustrations of this which were the “mixers” at the beginning of the autumn term, where
the girls are loaded off the wagons and paired off with the heavy-breathing freshmen. This artificial means of meeting girls
can prove to be unsatisfactory if, for example, one is thrown together with a girl for a whole weekend with
whom one has absolutely nothing in common. This is just sheer agony for both parties. For myself, I have been
quite fortunate, but this unnatural state of affairs will continue until reason prevails and co-education is introduced. However, what is
more obnoxious about the system is the attitudes which it seems to generate. The girls are hardly considered as people
but as sex-objects by the frustrated monks of Davidson.

The Davidsonian
December 17, 1971
Page Five

I should like now to say something concerning the international students...generally. While eating in the Union one day, all of
us were admonished for not making an effort to mingle with the American students instead of remaining in a group.
This, however, is only symptomatic of what has been happening overall, that many of us have found it difficult to
integrate with the rest of the student body and thus have formed our own clique. The difficulty does not only
lie on our side but also with the Davidson students themselves. Maybe the Davidson students have enough difficulty relating to
each other, let alone with people from different cultures? I do think, though, that the problem is already being ameliorated,
and it only takes time. I would suggest, nevertheless, that to improve the situation further, the Office of International Education
should allow each foreign student to become a member of a fraternity. This way, he will meet more people in
more relaxing circumstances and also relieve the common complaint of there being little social life.

Phil Fleming
Davidson College

To The Editor:

As all the International Students were eating supper in the marvelous school cafeteria one day, a member of the staff
came up to us and told us that he was going ‘to penalize’ us for eating together and not mingling
with the rest of the American students, and that we ‘should try’ to do it and not just ‘stick together.’
There were quite a few reactions among us such as—“What else is there to do when we hardly know any
of the students that eat here”; “Do you expect us to go sit at a table and say Hi!, I'm
from Mexico, and I’m an International Student,” (Big Deal), when there is no hospitality, or when we get a reaction
such as ‘What is it to me?”

The main problem is that we all feel left out of the community and with the only alternative of ‘sticking
together’ and learning about the different countries that we represent; not that this is bad, but that makes us realize
that we simply have to say “so much for the American cultural experience that I was supposed to get here.”
It is hard on exchange students to compare U.S. hospitality to that of our own countries. Phil Fleming and I
went to a party that was supposed to be open to anybody. We got there and had to find our
way around as we were being looked down upon, and even though 99 percent of the people there had seen
us around, or at least knew that we were exchange students, nobody was hospitable enough to give us a remark
of friendship.

Some of you might wonder: “Why is he complaining since all of them have a nice scholarship?” This is my
answer: I believe that this is part of the ‘international experience’ that I came to get here, so I am
going to have to put up with it whether I like it or not; therefore, I am not complaining, but
I am only trying to create some awareness of what an International Student has to go through. The solution? I
do not know one, but you as hosts, may think of one (but please do not come up with the
archaic answer — “you don’t like it, leave!”).

Carlos Arturo Sanchez Rendon
Davidson College

Huller Deplores Damage Inflicted By Snowballs

To The Editor:

During last year’s rioting on the college campuses, not many students seemed to care about the property damage they were
doing; that is, until an innocent student was killed in a bomb explosion. Here at Davidson, as evidenced last weekend,
not many students seemed to care about the glass windows they were breaking; luckily, no student (to my knowledge) was
seriously injured.

Dormitories are not the places to have snowball battles near. Any person with common sense (apparently lacking in quite a
few Davidson students) would realize the potential dangers. Under the right conditions, a snowball could be as lethal (or as
damaging) as flying glass. Those who used the doors and windows for protection to throw snowballs from were just as
guilty as those throwing at these students. While freshmen may be ‘restrained’ by their hall counselors, the upperclassmen are subject
to no such ‘restraint.’ It hardly helps our image when the town children see (and participate in) this wanton and
potentially dangerous destruction of property by supposedly ‘top-notch students.’

Notwithstanding the fact that tuition may increase next year to pay for this damage (though, not solely for this reason),
many students were oblivious to the ramifications of their snowball fights near the dorms. One student was almost hit by
flying glass in his room. There was a snowball fight outside, and one was thrown too high. Despite the fact
that the snowball was thrown some fifty feet away, it sent glass flying ten feet into the student’s room. The
glass missed the student this time. But, next time?

Such crass conduct is disgusting.

Jerry Huller ‘75
Davidson College
