| Princeton of the South Peddles Its Wares
By CULLUM ROGERS
March 15, 1971

Mr. Vernon Vortex
894 Tartop Road
Sudge, N.C.

Dear Sir:

This is to inform you that your application to Davidson has been received. After much consideration, we have decided to
allow you to enroll in the class of 1975. A 100 dollar tuition deposit must be received by our office
before May 1, or your place will be given to another applicant. An early reply will, of course, be most
helpful. Due to other financial obligations, we will not be able to offer you any financial assistance for the coming
year.

Sincerely yours,
H. Edmunds White

April 12, 1971

Dear Mr. Vortex,

This is to remind you that you have been accepted at Davidson as a member of the class of 1975.
Congratulations! Also, recent events have made it possible for us to offer you some financial aid under the provisions of
the work-study program. However, we can only hold a place for you until May 1, so we must receive your
tuition deposit before then.

Sincerely,
H. Edmunds White

P.S. The college catalog that you requested is enclosed. We apologize for the delay.

April 19, 1971

Dear Vernon,

Just another reminder that you have definitely been admitted to Davidson. Again, many congratulations, and (if I may anticipate) welcome
aboard! You'll be glad to hear that the committee has met again and we've decided (because of your really outstanding
qualifications) to award you a 50 percent scholarship with absolutely no strings attached. Isn't that great! Just try to get
that little tuition deposit (we’ve reduced it to $12.50 by the way) in before May 1, however, or we may
be forced, regrettably, to award your place to another, undoubtedly less deserving, applicant. Just to help you, I’m enclosing a
few more attractive, colorful brochures detailing some of the many advantages of attending "the Princeton of the South."

Regards,
Ed White

P.S. Woodrow Wilson studied here, 1873-74!

April 23, 1971

Vernon,

Tired of overcrowded classes? Sick of jammed accommodations? Hungry for lots of individual attention? Perhaps you’re looking for DAVIDSON! Located
in the heart of dynamic, coeducational Metrolina, DAVIDSON still preserves an atmosphere of unhurried, scholarly — yet far from bookish
— repose. Activism, alcohol, and academia all combine to provide "with-it" young swingers with a unique lifestyle they can truly
call their own. Timely as tomorrow; spacious as the past; that’s DAVIDSON! Come on up, no introduction needed. Think about
it, Vern, and drop us a line. Don’t even bother about the deposit; it’s taken care of under your full
scholarship. We'll even let you have a single room.

Ed

Hell, we'll even give you a single hall.

April 28, 1971

Dear Vern,

The administration wants me to write you a postcard so here it is: If you know what’s good for you,
come to Davidson.

Signed,
“A Friend”

APRIL 30, 1971

VERN COMMA FINAL OFFER COLON WILL PAY YOU TWO HUNDRED PER MONTH STOP ALSO A CAR AFTER TWO YEARS STOP
IF YOU HAVE ALREADY RECEIVED A COPY OF THIS TELEGRAM PLEASE PASS ON TO FRIEND STOP

ED

May 3, 1971

Dear Mr. Vortex,

Congratulations on your decision to attend Davidson. We look forward to seeing you in the fall. We realize that you
may think it’s a little early to be getting this kind of letter but as you know...

DICK ANDERSON
The Davidsonian
April 30, 1971
Page Five

Head Spender Establishes Supersmall Academic Body

Once upon a time—let us say, oh, in 1967—there was a small academic community in the backwoods of Idaho. This
small academic community was indeed small, numbering 70 professors, 1000 students (all of them more or less male, so that
the community would remain academic and not licentious) and four primary administrators. Though small, however, it was good.

At the head of the community stood the Head, who in conjunction with his primary advisors Dear Fronds, Dear Birds,
and Reggie Eastwood, decided that what was already good should become better; a laudable decision, don’t you think? For one
thing, although good, the academic community was said by Eastern Eggheads to be too limited in its ability to motivate
students to do unstructured work. As a result, Head Spender set up what was called the Supersmall Academic Community and
Dear Fronds was moved from his original post to become Dear to this new structure.

Dear Fronds was the natural choice to head up the Supersmall Academic Community. For one thing, his long experience of
closely organized academic endeavor had prepared him excellently to supervise its opposite. For another thing, Dear Fronds was about to
be replaced, and there was simply nowhere else to put him. Dear Fronds was set up in a large office
in one of the campus’ least frequented relics of more genteel days and began...the creation of the Supersmall Academic Community.
Immediately he stipulated that no student from the small academic community might enter the Supersmall Academic Community for unstructured work
unless he had been highly successful in structured study. This avoided lazy students in the Supersmall Academic Community, although some
objected that structured success might be an irrelevant criterion.

Thornton Draws ‘Neutral’ Reply

To the Editor:

After having read the advertisement which Mr. Thornton ran in THE DAVIDSONIAN, I couldn't resist the temptation of presenting what
one might call a "neutral," third-party opinion. Mr. Thornton's effort to avail himself of the pages of THE DAVIDSONIAN in
order to impart to the Davidson College community a "balanced viewpoint" is commendable and constructive, though it seems starkly clear
that if the balance needs tipping, it is on the other side. However, Mr. Thornton seems to have, to my
mind, considerable misinformation and confusion regarding the Vietnam War and American public resentment which has been picking up momentum recently.

Reduced to its basic aspects, the Vietnam War is, as many critical Americans have come to realize, a war of
nationalism. This fact is historically substantiated. What divides Vietnam into two halves is simply a "temporary military demarcation line," not
a boundary between two sovereign states. In view of this fact, it wouldn't make much sense to talk, as Mr.
Thornton did, in terms of "the communist aggressors" unless one is prepared to call the successful effort of the Yankees
in the American Civil War "aggression against the southern states." The analogy may not be perfect but a substantial parallel
is quite discernible.

At a time when American public opinion has justly become critical of the policy of the Administration on the war,
and at a time when an increasing number of responsible Americans (Professor Patterson, for one) are engaged in a concerned
peace effort to end the ghastly war, it is a pity to see the whole effort being branded a "gangster
warfare against our President." The Nixon Administration is not infallible. And when it errs, the people are obligated to correct
its mistakes. It is sheer naivete to equate every peace effort with "communism" and "disruption" of the government. People can’t
exercise their influence by complacently and "loyally" fashioning their thoughts after that of the government but by being critical and
objectively informed of their country’s affairs and its dealings with other nations. This, I think, is the essence of freedom.
Freedom is not a museum piece only to be carefully kept away and be proud of for its own sake.
If it can't be put into practical use, it is as good as nonexistent.

Tesfaye Demmelash
International Student
Davidson College

Dear Fronds and his panel of advisors furthermore declared that, although all work in the Supersmall Academic Community was to
be ungraded (pass-fail), all members must receive one Supergrade each term or else go back to the small academic community.
By the end of 1971, the Supersmall Academic Community contained all the best students in every class. The creative students,
however, had returned to their natural habitat at the bottoms of their classes. Upon their return, the Eastern Eggheads noted
how remarkably Dear Fronds had succeeded in distilling the small academic community into the Supersmall Academic Community.

In the meantime, there was a crisis situation about the person of Head Spender. For one thing, Head Spender was
also Head Breadwinner for the small academic community, but a bakery crisis had made it increasingly difficult for the Head
to continue to make headway in both roles. Therefore, a new Subhead Breadwinner was brought in, a much-experienced man by
the curious name of E. David Corncob. Corncob, by Mrs. Parkinson's Law, needed two Subsubhead Breadwinners to fulfill his bread
quotas. Also, Dear Birds had changed his name to Reggie, Eastwood had dropped the Reggie and become something ill-defined, and
the new Dear of Studs was named Wildberry.

At this point, an alert young student noted that the administration had increased itself by doubling plus one in four
years (four top-level to 9 from 1968 to 1972). This alert young student, having read Herman Kahn, extrapolated to discover
that by the year 2000 there would be 1295 administrators at the top level. From this, the alert young student
concluded that by that year the small academic community would either (1) no longer be small or (2) contain nothing
but administrators. However, as the alert young student was about to leave the small academic community in Idaho for the
wider world, he decided he didn’t care, anyway.

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that
week. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.
