The Davidsonian October 22, 1971 Page Nine

Booters Take Homecoming Win 5-1
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The Davidson soccer team kicked off the Homecoming weekend with a 5-1 win over Guilford College. The game, the first
athletic contest of the Homecoming weekend, was played this afternoon. This victory was the third racked up by the booters
during the past week.

Joe Yochem scored the first goal for the Wildcats early in the first quarter. In the second period, Brian Tarr
scored once and Dick Spinner tallied twice. Jack Linnard added the final point in the third period. Guilford's sole score
came in the second quarter.

Tuesday at 4 p.m., the booters will host St. Andrews. Coach Hally Fogleman predicted “a good game with a good
team.” St. Andrews, like Belmont Abbey, places a strong emphasis on their soccer team. Neither school fields a football team.
Last year the ’Cats toppled St. Andrews 7-2. Tuesday the Wildcats hosted Belmont Abbey and defeated them 6-2.

BAIN BOOTS BY BELMONT
(Staff photo by Barnes)
Freshman fullback Donnie Bain passes downfield as Joe Yochem joins the attack.

Blue Imps Destroy Punchless ’Kittens
By SCOTT McMICHAEL
Staff Writer

It was a tie ballgame through the first two minutes of the first quarter when the Wildkittens hosted the Duke
freshmen in Friday's football game. However, two quick scores by the Blue Imps put the ‘Kittens in a deep hole.
Forced to play catch-up ball, Davidson never recovered from the early scores, losing to the tune of 38-13.

The Wildkittens, now 1-2, have a good chance to even things at .500 when they meet the Wake Forest freshmen
here on Monday. Wake has been severely trounced by both Duke and the University of North Carolina.

On the fourth play run by Duke, their bull fullback burst loose for 51 yards and six points. The next
Duke series saw the quarterback run for 40 yards and another touchdown.

Davidson was held scoreless until early in the second period when David Harper, the quarterback, scrambled eight yards on a
pass play for the score. Duke added another and the halftime scoreboard showed Duke out ahead, 19-7.

The second half was more of the same. The ‘Kitten defense, hitting harder than before but still missing tackles, gave
up three more touchdowns after long drives by the Blue Imps. Harper scored Davidson's second touchdown in the third quarter
on a one-yard run.

After the game with Wake Forest on Monday, the Wildkittens will close their season against The Citadel on November 5.

Gridders
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

Here's a quickie-quiz for today: When was the last time the Davidson Wildcats won a home football game? Readers with
sharp memories will recall that on November 1, 1969, the Wildcats demolished VMI 59-6 in the Homecoming game.

The 'Cats entertain the Wofford Terriers tomorrow at Richardson Field in an appropriately-named Homecoming contest, and will be trying to
break the two-year home victory drought.

Wofford has been an inconsistent team this season, posting a 2-3 record. The Terriers have knocked off Lenoir-Rhyne and Furman
while suffering losses to Elon, Presbyterian, and Newberry.

The Terriers run the Wishbone offense, which the 'Cats have already faced against Appalachian. Executing the tricky offense are three
backs from Wofford.Food Mart Monday - Saturday Special Case Prices on Beer

Tarr led the scoring in the Belmont-Abbey game, kicking in three of the ’Cats six goals. Spinner, Steve Culbertson, and
Mike Tanner each added one. Last Saturday, the booters took an 8-0 win from Pfeiffer in Pfeiffer's Homecoming contest. The
team is still suffering from injuries and will probably not be back to full strength for at least another week,
according to Fogleman. Seraphin Gbari, who scored five goals until his leg injury at Furman, may be able to return
for Tuesday’s match. Both Johnny Robison and Charlie Heiner, the starting goalie, will be out for another week or more.
Fogleman said the team particularly misses Robison because he is quick and works well with a “garbage ball,” a loose
ball in the goal area.

Wing Dick Spinner has led the soccer scoring so far in the season, booting in nine goals. He is followed
by Tarr with six goals, Gbari and Tornee with five each, and Joe Yochem and Jack Linnard with four.

Tackle Wofford, last season’s NAIA runner-up team. The man to stop, according to Wildcat assistant coach Alex Gettys, is powerful
fullback Clifford Boyd. Boyd has averaged 4.2 yards per carry to date and is very effective on a straight dive
play up the middle. Replacing graduated quarterback Harold Chandler has not been an easy job for newcomer Eddie Woody. Woody
is a strong runner but not a very imposing passer. Defensively, the Terriers will rely on quickness to try to
stifle the ’Cats, who have tallied only 60 points in six games.

Gettys expressed pleasure that defenders Woody Montgomery and Jim Hardison will see action tomorrow, after being sidelined with injuries. “The
sophomores who took their places will certainly not be put back on the shelf,” Gettys explained, “because Ross Manire, Eddie
Williamson, and Jim Purcell have all done great jobs.”

Last week's 41-6 loss to Furman was a bitter pill for the ‘Cats to swallow. The offense accumulated plenty of
yardage but was victimized by four fumbles and four interceptions. Tomorrow's game shapes up as a real battle, for as
Gettys says, “Wofford always seems to get psyched for us, and they will really be angry since Newberry beat them
so badly last week.” As far as the Wildcats are concerned, they must win if they are to keep any
hopes of a break-even season alive.

If you crooned with the early Elvis Presley (“Love Me Tender”) ... let your radio blare out “So Rare” by
Jimmy Dorsey ... wore white bucks, pink shirts, peg pants, or bobby socks ... bought all the Platters records; later,
the Lettermen, Association, and Vogues ... and today Chicago, Blood, Sweat, & Tears ... and still Elvis, you understand why
WBT Radio's ‘Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame” is such a hit. Nostalgia is invading fashion, art, and literature, and
WBT now invades the world of music, as far back as 1950. Mike Ivers, Music Director of WBT, hosts the
five-hour show ... spinning discs. Between each song, he tells about the artists and relates other interesting tidbits concerning style,
era, etc. Mike receives an avalanche of mail from up and down the eastern seaboard, filled with requests for “Special
Favorites.” You might say that WBT Radio has become a thing of the past... at least for five hours a
week. The “Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame” ... from 7 til Midnight.
