We Shall See What We Shall See

The Davidsonian
May 7, 1971
Page Five

Mendenhall Scorns Apathy; Gillie Desires Coeducation

To the Editor:

Well, it’s that time again, that barefoot, shirtless, sun-shining time when spring fever strikes once again. Unfortunately, the Davidson brand of spring fever packs an extra punch — it’s called apathy. The term apathetical is a handle which has come to fit the Davidson student all too well, and it seems to have reached a new high this spring. I have seen the day when a class of sophomores rallied in Love Auditorium to protest against Area Exams. I have seen D.C. students fill the Union Lobby for an Open End on coeducation. But these days are long gone by. Last Monday night four people showed up for an Open End on the food service, and not one of them was a freshman. Amid the continual gripes about the food and cafeteria service, there doesn’t seem to be anyone who cares about anything except griping.

It’s easy for some brave soul to yell obscenities at Kleeburg from a crowd of students across the union, but when it comes to sitting down and talking with him face to face, there doesn’t seem to be many people with enough guts or concern to bother. These aren't the only examples. Less than 15 students showed up to talk with Spencer about coeducation. Not more than 10 students showed up to talk with Will Terry about

“Say Hello to Yesterday”

By DAVID WELLS

“Say Hello to Yesterday,” starring Leonard Whiting in his first role since he played Romeo in “Romeo and Juliet,” is, roughly speaking, the story of an affair. Sound familiar? It is. Picture the handsome, devil-may-care hero, the black sheep of his hard-working, lower-class family, jobless and practically penniless, yet possessing a dauntless spirit and an all too ready wit: in short, the archetypal stud. Enter the once beautiful, now sagging middle-aged housewife from the right side of the tracks, as she is played by Jean Simmons. She has it all, successful husband, lovely family, house in the country, security. But is she happy? Of course not! With all of that, who needs happiness?

On the packed morning commuter train, he accidentally catches sight of her, and immediately decides to “climb Mount Everest,” a somewhat Freudian euphemism for his intention to seduce her. Through innumerable trials and tribulations he pursues his prey, never accepting no for an answer, until finally, at long last, she capitulates. After an unusually sterile bedroom scene (why do they bother wrapping up in the bedsheets after making love, unless it’s to keep their GP rating?), she sees the futility in trying to continue the affair, and decides to go back to her home in Colbin, the English equivalent of the Country-Club Estates.

“But I love you,” he protests, sounding almost as believable as Spiro Agnew commending the VVAW for their patriotism. By the end of the picture, however, he succeeds in convincing himself that he does love her, and chases after her departing train, holding out a yellow balloon as a farewell present, no doubt a symbol of his carefree, child-like heart. But alas, too late! The train pulls out too soon, and he is left broken-hearted, holding the balloon, so to speak. It's all right, though, the sadness lasts only a few moments. As the music swells to its climactic forte, he impetuously buys fifty more balloons and releases them over Victoria Station, thereby signifying his jubilant acceptance of the realization that “memories are forever,” as well as contributing to the atmospheric pollution over the city of London.

The primary weakness of “Say Hello to Yesterday” is that it tries to embellish a little too heavily on the hackneyed theme of the extra-marital affair. The problem is one of credibility. On the one hand, there is an obvious attempt made at offering some kind of relevant criticism of modern society. The question seems to be, “Why can’t one be both ‘successful’ and ‘happy’ at the same time?” but there is no palpable explanation or acceptable answer suggested, and even if there were, it would be obscured by the trivial, often embarrassingly contrived stabs at humor and spontaneity. Despite its numerous, glaring absurdities, “Say Hello to Yesterday” still proves capable of imparting that warm feeling of momentary euphoria, very much similar to that experienced after the first reading of “Love Story,” before one realizes completely what kind of trick has been pulled.

Yearbook In Trouble

By ALEC HOON
News Editorthe policies of the Dean of Students. Now I hear gripes about cuts in the budget and the financial priorities and policies of the college, but I wonder how many students will bother to show up and talk with C. David Cornell, vice president of finance and development, about it on May 17. Well, it just goes to support the theory that it’s easier to criticize if you don’t have to do anything about it.

Ray Mendenhall ‘72
Davidson College

To the Editor:

During my two years at Davidson, I have come to feel more and more strongly that the most important issue facing the Davidson community is coeducation. I am sure that the reasons for coeducation must be obvious for anyone who has ever been a part of the Davidson College community. The most important arguments are probably that education should be a part of the real world, that education involves the development of the whole person rather than just the mind, and that the most important purpose of a liberal education is to lead us to a greater degree of self-knowledge and to a more complete realization of our human capabilities as we seek to live more fully—purposes which can best be accomplished in a coeducational environment.

One argument that is often made for delaying coeducation is that we should approach the issue from the standpoint of what Davidson can do for the girls as well as what the girls can do for Davidson. I agree. But I think that we should also consider the coeds who are now coming here under the Eight College Exchange Program. If we believe that Davidson doesn’t have anything to offer for the education of young women, it is sheer hypocrisy to continue to admit even five or ten exchange students each year.

Another point that should be brought out is that a girl who wants to attend a coeducational college with an excellent academic reputation has very few schools to choose from in this part of the country. By going coeducational, Davidson would therefore be helping to fill an important educational need.

The really important question here, I think, is a matter of attitudes. Once we commit ourselves to the goal of coeducation, ways can be found to overcome the economic difficulties. One possibility would involve an exchange program whereby Davidson students could take courses at Queens and vice versa. I am told that such a program already exists, under the Charlotte Area Consortium, but that “unfortunately, few students have taken advantage of it.” If the administrations of the two schools would make an effort to inform students of the opportunities of participating in this program, it could provide a means to achieve a significant degree of coeducation, at little cost and with no detrimental effect on the quality of education. Other means of achieving more coeducation could also be worked out.

If you agree with me that coeducation is desirable at Davidson at the earliest possible date, please take a few minutes to write a letter expressing your views to either President Spencer or the chairman of the Board of Trustees, Dr. Warner Hall, 1000 E. Morehead St., Charlotte, N.C. We, as students, can have a significant influence on the making of important policy decisions by the college. But we must let our voices be heard.

Kemp Gillie ‘73
Davidson College

A survey was taken among 259 West Virginia students in two classes concerning the school yearbook, The Monticola, and the proposed revisions in it, the school newspaper, The Daily Athenaeum, has reported. The poll revealed that only 54 students out of 259 had ever bought a yearbook (costing nine dollars), and that 92 of the remaining 199 said that they would never buy one under the present system. Among other things, the proposed changes would include tripling the number of color photographs (to 48), dropping all advertising, and financing the new yearbook by an increase of 20 dollars per semester in student fees. The proposal will go to the student legislature, and if passed, will be presented to the students in the form of a referendum.

Peace Treaty Challenged

Chairman of the Chapel Hill chapter of the Young Americans for Freedom, David Adcock, has called for a public expose of the People’s Peace Treaty, challenging UNC radicals to an open debate on the treaty. Adcock claimed, the Daily Tar Heel learned, that there are twenty different copies of the treaty circulating throughout the country, and that the South Vietnamese Student Union cited in the treaty as having ratified it does not exist.