“Take Four.” LETTER RANDOM ASSIGNMENT

The Davidsonian
December 10, 1971

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Freshman Praises System: Spencer Blamed For Trouble

To The Editor:
As a freshman at Davidson, I would just like to come out and say how proud I am to be a part of the new social system implemented by the college last year. I think the Class of '75 is fortunate indeed to have a choice of houses into which they may self-select. I feel that in this way I may find a compatible socio-economic, emotional, intellectual, and hormonal niche in which to contemplate my un-

Is Student Parking Vital for Davidson Community?

To The Editor:
A lot has been made recently of the issue of student parking, if not because of a limited amount of available space then certainly because Cop Linker has been giving out those damn tickets like he just came from a confetti party. Since the college was making a lot of money off the deal, they didn’t want to do a thing about the situation. So the SGA comes in and publishes a pretty blue leaflet about parking spaces, rules, and their very own traffic court, which probably makes them feel like they are doing something useful. But what I want to talk about are the bad points about student parking and cars on campus in general. Instead of lamenting a dilemma that we cannot change, why not listen to a few suggestions as to how to improve the campus in other ways.

First, there are more cars registered at Davidson than there are available parking spaces. Therefore the situation is absurd and one should face it realistically by acknowledging a mathematical impossibility that the college will do nothing to remedy. Next, cars are bad for the ecology, particularly on a campus with such lovely landscaping and verdant scenery. If we would do away with cars on campus and the roads they ride on, then Davidson would have the nicest walking campus since Hong Kee irrigated the Gobi Desert. The exhaust from car engines around campus may be linked to the recent snow which fell for hours last week under an ominous gray sky. Also, it is a known fact that if all of the exhaust pipes from student cars were linked into one big funnel and the engines attached were raced above 4500 rpms, then it would be possible to create enough pressure to cause a tidal wave on Lake Norman. There would be enough carbon monoxide poisoning to kill all the ducks on the lake. It would also be loud as hell. But now you say, what will people

Student Defends Name Of Frisbee

To The Editor:
I, like my distinguished predecessors in this column, wish to refrain from personal attacks, nasty digs, and mud-slinging (not to mention scratching and biting); however, there is a matter (and that is no overstatement) that needs urgent attention, and if in the process a few heads are bloodied... well... shucks... it’s worth it if Depot Street is to remain the place it once was and the place it was destined to be. The matter is simply this: Frisbees — that is correct, the same frisbees that we associate with our youth, life, justice, and a real good time — are being defamed.

“Who would do that?” you may ask. I refuse to tell and lower myself into the stench and (excuse my language) “pootie,” but if you insist — Bruce Batten and John Robison have repeatedly slurred the name of Frisbee! These two “men,” masquerading as hall counselors with their dangerous, paranoic, sadistic, warty hands on our freshmen, have been known to refer to frisbees as “yellow discs” and “things” and “whiz-rings” (may the Lord have pity on their souls). Above and beyond that, Bruce’s great-aunt (three times removed) had been known to frequent motorcycle shows with a man named “Speedy.” As if that isn’t enough, John’s grandmother’s maid used to root for the Wofford football team over Davidson! Well... I hated to make this a personal attack, but doggone it — they personally attacked frisbees! I only hope that some good ol' mob action will be taken against these two psychopaths, so that once again Depot Street will be safe for you and me and for Jerry Mathers as ‘The Beaver.’

Peter W. Morgan '73
Davidson Collegedo for transportation when all the cars are gone. Personally, I would like to see a train depot or rapid transit system constructed which would offer all Davidson students an expedient means of transportation to and from the campus. North Carolina State already has a set of railroad tracks running through its campus, and Davidson could be the same way with a little extra money. Just think of all the fun people could have placing pennies on the rails and waiting for the train to come along and flatten them. Finally, think of Cop Linker. He used to have a quiet life sitting in his blockhouse next to the laundry eating cheese and pumpernickel and dodging water balloons in his white truck on his way home each day. Now he has to run around so much that he is a case for the coronary ward. Let’s keep all of these things in mind the next time we feel like getting uptight over such a selfish luxury as student parking.

Ju Ju Frigg ‘73
Davidson College.

differentiated aesthetic continuum as well as my navel. Let me tell you what happened to me. I was to be sent down to one of those eating clubs, so my hall counselor calls us together and lines us up in single file and we go marching down there together singing “All Along the Mohawk” and “Massa's in de Cold, Cold Ground” in 3/3 time. When we get to the house the president comes out to welcome us and invite us in to eat. Everybody in the house comes to meet each one of us and we all sit down to a delicious meal with roast beef, potatoes, broccoli, chicken pot pie, French beans, Spanish rice, biscuits, loganberry jam, and spam with Hollandaise sauce. After dinner we go into the living room with our dessert (Refresho delight) and sing songs with the other brothers in the house. Then some of us go downstairs to watch the tube, others go to play bridge and poker, while still others remain in the living room to rap about how to make Davidson “relevant” and the psyche of kazoo playing. We all stayed there for about an hour until it was time to go study in the library and then we left. But now I’m really looking forward to taking advantage of all the parties and things because the guys down there are so glad to have somebody like me that they don’t even know anything about or have a choice even if they didn't want me. I tell you, this new social system is far out. Unreal, you know what I mean? Better than Disney World. Better than life.

The Past Revisited

Page Five

So let's all go out and kill ourselves to find that meaning beyond, which is so relevant to the new social system.

Hose Grunchbottom ‘75
Davidson College

To The Editor:

President Spencer sure has taken some wild trips since I’ve been in school, and I’ve got this little theory I want to explore with regard to it. Last year he dumps this new social system on us and adds three new vice-presidents to his staff to answer all his letters from people wanting to kill him for throwing out fraternities and adding all these new guys to his staff. But where is Spencer during all this mess which he caused? Over in England and Germany swimming in wine and sauerkraut. But everybody goes “What ho, this is good politics, set fire to the place and run like hell all the way to Europe.” Now look at things this year. Spencer and Gaige the Goob rent an elephant and go to India to sign for an exchange program. And what happens? Fighting breaks out on the border with Pakistan. The whole country is thrown into civil war, and insurgents rape the countryside. Who caused all this? Spencer, who else? Just like he did last year, only there are no fraternities to throw out over there. Well, now he is back home safe and sound, dreaming up a visit to God knows where. Maybe he'll go to Red China to complete the Sino-Soviet split or to Belfast on a religious pilgrimage. Personally, I suggest that he travel to the mid-Atlantic 300 miles from nowhere. And stay.

Nito Bozareef ‘72
Davidson College

MYSTIC GOODIES? MUCH MORE!