@The Davidsonian §8 December 2, 1971 Page Seven

Inexperienced Cagers Host Clemson

By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Davidson Varsity coaches have come to rely on early season games to evaluate their players. Prior to the season, Coach Holland predicted a year of prominence for the Wildcats.

(Staff photo by Rodriguez)
UP OVER THE AUSSIES: Mike Sorrentino squeezes by former Wildcat Rocky Crosswhite in preseason action with the Australian Nationals.

Optimistic 'Cat Wrestlers Open With UNC Tourney

By SCOTT McMICHAEL
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestlers return to action, posting a 6-2 record from last year, one of the three best records in their history. With ten lettermen returning, the grapplers have hope for an even better season than last year. They are led by team captain, Ronnie Williams, who along with Rusty Winchester was undefeated in dual team meets last year.

The season begins this weekend in Chapel Hill where Coach Charlie Parker is taking the team for the North Carolina Collegiate Tournament. This tournament will not affect the team’s conference standing. It's simply a chance for the men to loosen up and acquire some experience before the dual meets begin.

At this moment, however, there is a measure of uncertainty concerning who will be wrestling at each of the ten weight divisions. It seems that the line-up will not be stabilized until after Christmas. At that time, all of the wrestlers should be close to their fighting weight.

Wrestling fans can then expect to see Rick Stansbury at 118 and one of two seniors on the squad. Injury-ridden Rob Benton will be at the 126 spot. A letterman, he hopes to complete his first season on the Davidson mat without an injury this year. There is every indication that Benton will have a successful year. Winchester will wrestle again at 134 and John Scandling, a sophomore letterman, is back at 142. Weight divisions 126, 134, and 142 should be positions of strength this year.

There are four or five strong men at these weights. Benton, Winchester, and Scandling will be backed up by letterman Allen Tillman, Sefton Stevens, and freshmen Robert Jacobs, Knights, and Leonard Gilles. Sophomore letterman James...

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Phone 692-2111 Davidson, N.C.
Complete Prescription Service—Sundries—Cosmetics—Russell Stover Candies

THE RED HANGER
“After Church” Sunday Buffet
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
All You Can Eat
Beef - Chicken - Salads - Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
Across from the Hospital
Discount On Any Merchandise
OPEN 9-8
MONDAY - SATURDAY