Page Six September 17, 1971

The Mavihantiiat Sidelines with CHARLIE TERRELL Assistant Sports Editor

There it was, sitting squarely in the middle of my desk blotter. I could guess without looking at it what
it would be. I was right: it was a note from Joe Earle asking me to do a story on
the coed soccer managers.

“Here we go again!” I thought. Another one of those big assignments. I had almost mastered the style of writing
about coed cross-country managers and tennis work-study boys last year, so this task appeared to be a snap. There was
one catch to the matter. To the eloquent note, Joe had appended these words: “try to be different.” How in
the world can you be different about something like this?

Anyway, Tuesday afternoon I wandered down to watch soccer practice, anxious to meet two new friends and hoping they would
tell me enough to make the story readable. Joe likes stories that are readable.

Well, I introduced myself as being from THE DAVIDSONIAN and their anguished cries told me that was my first mistake.
We seated ourselves on the bank and they proceeded to inform me of the basic biographical information which is normally
the meat of such stories. Both girls are sophomore students from Mary Baldwin, they are history majors and they hail
from Charleston, S.C.

Realizing that a good provocative question was needed next, I asked them what their duties as managers entailed.

“We keep track of the eligibility papers for the boys, we make publicity posters and we take orders from Kim
Jones, our immediate boss,” commented Marie Ferrara. At this juncture, Jones called for an ink pen which Jennet Robinson hurled
in his general direction.

Resuming my poignant line of questioning, I asked them how they got interested in soccer. Marie derives her love of
the sport from being a cheerleader for football and soccer in high school, and she broke into a rousing chorus
of “GO WAHUS GO,” apparently indicating a few visits to UVa. Jennet is also a fan of the sport, noting
that “this is my first time in college that I've had a home team to yell for.”

I couldn't let the interview end without asking the most relevant question of all—“Why are you here?” Jennet was quick
to point out that they were fed up with hearing that question, and she related one incident in which she
triumphed over an astute Davidson student who asked her, “Are you a coed?”

“You're very observant,” she replied.

“Why did you come to Davidson?” he queried.

“To find a husband,” she shot back, “and you look like a prime candidate.” She admitted that she had been
wanting to do that for some time, and simply could not resist when the student fell into the trap.

Well, that ended the interview—almost. Each girl is extremely excited about the scrimmage Sunday afternoon at 2 p.m. which will
find the Wildcats hosting the Charlotte Soccer Club on Sprunt Field. Marie came up with the following suggestion: “Why don't
you let us write our own story about the match instead of boring everyone with all these details which make
us sound like Bobsey twins?”

Realizing the dire need for something different in the sports pages, I readily agreed to their proposal. Joe also agreed
(in fact, he relished the thought), so next week Marie and Jennet will contribute their own story about what it’s
like to be managers.

Freshmen To Run Tuesday

It can be very hard to change a tradition at Davidson, particularly one that has lasted for 35 years. The
freshman cake race is a tradition that withstood any effort to be changed. The race was initiated in 1935. It
was decided that it was not necessary this year because of the quality of...The cross-country team. But the race has
become a regular feature in the opening of every school year by track coach Heath Whittle, in an effort to
discover potential cross-country runners in the freshman class. The race will be run Tuesday afternoon at 4:15 on the soccer
field. Originally it was scheduled for last Tuesday, but the coach- It has become a popular event with faculty wives,
the donors of the cakes, and a vivid memory for the students that have run it. Martin expects to have
about 80 cakes, roughly the number from last year, donated as prizes in the 1.7-mile marathon.

NOW, NEXT... (Staff photo by Davidson) Soccer managers Jennet Robinson and Marie Ferrara confer.

Deacons Outlast Wildcats With Fourth Quarter Win

AN ANALYSIS By Frank Soos Staff Writer

“A great fight,” said Wildcat coach Dave Fagg of his team’s effort in their 27-7 loss to Wake Forest last
Saturday night. The ‘Cats, preseason picks for the lower ranks of the conference, held the Demon Deacons scoreless for three
periods. The perturbed Deacons had their sights set on their second straight ACC title. Lots of luck, guys.

As for the Wildcats, Fagg praised their defensive execution as flawless. The Wake offense was powerless after reeling off an
eighteen-yard run on the game's opening play. Linebackers Woody Montgomery, Robert Norris, and Jimmy Hardison consistently contained the deadly veer
offense and option-master Larry Russel. Co-captain Montgomery’s performance earned him conference defense man of the week.

Davidson scored on their first attempt in eleven plays from their own 49. Running back Johnny Ribet chewed up yardage
on the ground while Scotty Shipp tossed two passes to Richard Neal, including the touchdown.

Half-time festivities in “Deacon-land,” as the announcer charmingly put it, included a plaque presentation to the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco
Company for their service to Wake Forest U. and all humanity. A plywood chapel surveyed the ceremony benignly from the
end zone.

The punting game proved to be the greatest weakness in the Wildcat attack. Shipp’s seven punts averaged almost 34 yards
and were high. The downfield coverage was just not there. Wake Forest was able to return the ball well into
‘Cats territory, putting pressure on the defense and at the same time forcing the offense to follow a more conservative
attack. Gradually the defenders were worn down, receiving little rest the entire third quarter.

The Deacons failed in a field goal effort from the nineteen, but still managed to keep the ‘Cats against the
wall. Finally, they scored on the second play of the fourth quarter. Wake fans finally rose to their feet (after
three quarters of pleas from Deacon head cheerleader, winner of the coveted broken megaphone award for most obnoxious performance by
an opposing cheerleader, (ref. previous winner Duke b-ball game, Jan. 1970) that were actually more of a dramatic monologue) only
to find themselves still behind as the ball rebounded from the goalpost. Davidson still led.

From then on, the Wildcats were plagued with errors. They suffered their only two penalties of the night, were intercepted
twice, and once more allowed good punt run-backs. Wake Forest capitalized on each opportunity.

DEAL'S RESTAURANT AND GRILL 663-4141 4 Miles North of Davidson Steaks — Seafood — Plate Lunches 6 a.m. ‘til Midnight
Closed Monday

posted in the dorms. Kelton on or before

The North Carolina Fellows Program Davidson College Invites Applications from Members of the CLASS OF 1975

Information Sessions will be held in each Freshman dormitory September 21, 22, 23 on a schedule to be posted in
the dorms. Application forms may be obtained at these meetings or from Dr. Kelton’s office. B-2 Chambers (North basement). Completed
applications should be returned to Dr. Kelton on or before Tuesday, October 5, 1971.
