Who’s Afraid Of Registration?

AN ANALYSIS
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

Most of the students and a few faculty are generally hacked at the administration over the overnight rush to register.

College Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. explained that with the new system “students can know right away what courses they are in as opposed to earlier registration where students requested courses through their advisors and found out in the summer what they could not take.

“We can have a much tighter schedule by taking registration term by term rather than for the whole year.”

Burts added that students registering for the fall term now would register for the winter term in October and for the spring term of next year in February.

“The reason for the push this time,” he said, “was mainly that the course of instruction booklet we had counted on getting and on which registration largely depends was delayed.”

This booklet was due at the college last Friday. It has not yet finished publication, however. In its place, the registrar's office ran off a substitute shorter booklet.

Burts said that he hoped next time to have a minimum of two weeks advance notice for students before registration, and that the foul-up this time was only procedural.

SGA President Danny Clodfelter believes that “in principle the system is better than the one before, but the simple fact is that it is not an effective working system yet.

“It is ridiculous to mail out these registration forms two days before you declare a major and without a course booklet to look at. The good thing about the system is that it will give the professor a chance to waive the ceiling on a particular course, instead of the registrar's office."

Faculty reaction to the new registration was far from complacent. Several professors were distressed that they would have to keep such long hours while students wandered around looking for prospective advisors.

Assistant Professor of German Hansford M. Epes Jr. said, “It's not nearly as bad as it looked like it was going to be.

“We've been setting the ceiling before on class sizes, but the good purpose of the system now is that the professor can make exceptions whereas it was left up to the registrar before."

Also new in the registration gambit is the limiting of such courses as Drama 21 to freshmen and sophomores only. For the first time, upperclassmen must take second place in the choice of certain courses.

102 Self-Select Into Eating Clubs

Over 102 freshmen self-selected into the following houses:

Alpha Tau Omega
Chris Allison, Doug Berry, Hutch Brown, David B. Doty, Joe Earle, Jerry C. Godber, Raymond Grubb, Pete Kyle, John T. McElveen Jr., Duncan Lee McGoogan, P. Kent Nearing, Lewis T. Rogers Jr., Hall B. Whitworth Jr.

Beta Theta Pi
Owen Dickens, Scott Dimon, David Duggins, John Gnann, David D. Hanig, Dennis W. Jones, W. H. Ralston, Jim Reynolds, Peter G. Smith, Edgar Weir.

Kappa Sigma
Frank Bell, Nate Bowman, George Edwards, John Falconi, Greg Funk, Neal Gregory, Richard Hendrix, Joseph B. Hudson, John Johnston, Jim Lehnberg, Tony Martin, Steve Morris, Michael Sorrentino, Bill Vaughn.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Robert E. Bolick, Robert Chapman, Mark Myers.

Pi Kappa Phi
James Collins, Herb Dimmock, L. Tyler Dowing III, Charles Hutchison, Alton A. McCallum, Richard Spinner.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Eldon Basham, Scott Candler III, Chip Davidson, Jim Dorsett, William DuPont, Mackie Horton, Steven D. Johnson, Steve Keller, Tom Kent, Cliff Kirk, John Knox, W. Earl McCall, Mark D. Monson, George Poe, Peyton Prospere, Jim Ray, Donald Trask, John Webel, Bob Whaling, J. Cooke Wilson.

Sigma Nu
Andrew Bailey, John A. Deaver, Tom Hatley, Tommy Jenkins, Andrew Neisler, Scott Schreiber, Bruce Seligmann.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Steve Balkcom, William Stevenson Bennett, Doug Brown, Tom Bruce, Donald Butts, C. Franklin Corriher, Lewis Deaton, John H. Divine, Steve Earp, Richard Gary, Michael Harding, Murray G. Hawkinson.

(See 102, Page 10)

Schlitz Malt Liquor

Tremendous strength, power, reliability, dependable good taste. That's what Taurus is known for. Schlitz Malt Liquor, too.

Venus, the ruling planet, makes Taurus sociable, fond of fun, and able to inspire friendship in others. Maybe you and the Bull should get together. Maybe you'd hit it off.

But maybe not.

It depends on your sign. Because Taurus has a powerful mean streak. There's a helluva fire in the Bull.

So check your stars. They'll tell you straight if you're the kind of person who can meet Schlitz Malt Liquor head-on.

Nobody makes malt liquor like Schlitz. Nobody.