Ske Mavibsowian
November 5, 1971
Page Seven

BULLDOGS
By CHARLIE TERRELL

Toledo was a big mistake. 25 flashes of brilliance but has Asst. Sports Editor the Bucs were clobbered 43. Meer
bothered by nagging ankle. A person named Ulmo sounds like he should be operating "Ulmo’s Used Auto Parts" or "Ulmo’s
Upholstery." Ulmo Randle, however, is better known as Sonny and he happens to coach the East Carolina Pirates, who provide
tomorrow's opposition for the Wildcats in a Southern conference football contest.

The game will be played at Ficklen Stadium in Greenville and will be Homecoming for the Pirates. The Pirates have
posted a 3-5 overall record thus far, and stand 2-2 in the conference. The Pirates gained their first win over
The Citadel in a scoring affair, 31-25, but lost to Richmond 14-7 and West Virginia 44-21. Recent wins over William
and Mary 24-19 and Bowling Green 47-21 have impressed fans.

The upset over William and Mary was a highlight. The Pirate backfield is quarterback John Casazza, who might be the
best passer this season. Tim Dameron, a former Farmville Central star, is a dangerous outside threat with his speed and
size.

(Staff photo by Erwin)
Nate Bowman fires an outside shot in varsity basketball practice. Opening their season, the Davidson basketball team is slowly bouncing
back in preparation for the 1971 season. The first trial for the cagers will be an exhibition game with the
Australian Olympic Team in Charlotte on Dec. 1.

Rocky Crosswhite is a leading scorer for the Aussies and has toured with them for two years. Last year the
exhibition team toured the Big Ten Conference and fared fairly well, according to head basketball coach Terry Holland. The same
team that the Wildcats meet will play in Munich at the Olympics.

The Davidson team has begun practicing for the coming season. After two weeks, all-conference wing Charles "Trump" Cade and former
Davidson player Terry Swart have shown good form in practice sessions. Sutter is only the third returning varsity player for
the Wildcats, joining returnees Eric.a ° Minkin and John Pecoraa =~ 7 fs 0s fetcte sy © By SCOTT McMICHAEL

Staff Writer

The Wildkittens will lay their 500 record on the line this afternoon when they meet The Citadel Bullpups at Richardson
Field. Victory over the Wake Forest freshmen last week advanced the freshman record to 2-2.

In reviewing the season, Coach Tom Stevens pointed to several handicaps with which the team has been forced to play
this year. Since the ‘Kittens are used primarily to prepare the varsity for their game each week, it has been
difficult for the team to develop its own style of football. Each week finds the team running the offenses and
defenses employed by whatever team the varsity is scheduled to play on Saturday.

The freshmen are also small but have a good measure of speed to compensate for the lack of size. Stevens
praised the defense for its consistent play throughout the season. Student-coach Jeff Lynn cited the cohesive team effort of the
defense and was reluctant to single out outstanding players because everyone had been doing their jobs so well.

The strength of the offense, according to Coach Stevens, in large part is due to quarterback Harper's receivers. Gary Pomeroy
gobbles up anything that comes near him. Besides having a good set of hands, tight end Lin Potts can also
block. Both freshmen will undoubtedly see varsity action next year.

The ’Kittens will face a real test today against The Citadel. The Bullpups are only 1-3 but last week they
defeated a strong East Carolina freshman team. Stevens feels that the contest will be hard-fought but has confidence in the
Wildkittens as long as they are ready.

The ‘Kittens go into today’s game with two new co-captains. Hesty Hesterburg is the offensive captain and George Weicker leads
the defense. Davidson students are encouraged to turn out and support the freshmen in their bid for a winning season.

Whatever you want, we've got

ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Field Jackets — P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans
170 N. Main
Mooresville, N. C

Fresh Fish-Steaks
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson
