The Vol. LXI, No. Two Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

AavuiNsonian

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

SEPTEMBER 17, 1971

(Staff photos by Barnes)

DON’T BELIEVE A WORD HE SAYS

Faculty members listen to explanations for proposals on student representation.

Baroda U. Program Awaits Indian Approval

By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Asst. Managing Editor

As a part of the college’s growing offerings in the area of South Asian Studies, the faculty has approved a Junior year study program at the University of Baroda in Gujarat State, India. Although the program must still gain the approval of the Ministries of Education of the state and the central government in India, the college hopes that approval can come by December of this year so that the program can be initiated in July, 1972.

Although instruction is in English, each student will be required to study either Hindi or Gujarati during the two-semester academic year. The study will be directed toward communication with the Indian people rather than the study of Indian literature. In addition to language study, each student will enroll in one regular course of the university each semester, participate in a seminar on current Indian economic, social, and cultural developments, and work on a project of interest to him leading to a “substantial” paper.

Although the requirements may seem rather lax, students will find adjustment to life in India demanding, and this adjustment should represent the greatest part of their learning experience, said John M. Bevan, vice president for academic affairs. Fifteen students will participate in the program each year. Students will be selected on the basis of their academic performance and their maturity. Ability to adapt to Indian life will be an important requirement.

The college plans to rent or lease several large bungalows near the university for the lodging of students in the program and a few of the Indian students who cannot find lodging in the university’s overcrowded hostels. The Davidson students will have their overall academic and extra-curricular activities supervised by an American director who has had previous living experience in India. The program director will conduct the seminar each semester and before each year will prepare for the anticipated problems of adjustment.

Students will be urged to participate in extra-curricular activities of the regular university, such as sports, drama, and debating, to widen their cultural experiences. They will not be free to travel in India except during vacation periods or at the end of the year.

Grey House Coeds To Elect Senator

By JOHN KEPCHAR
Staff Writer

Another step in the acceptance of coeds as a part of the Davidson student body will be the election of a student representative from the Grey House, according to Danny Clodfelter, president of the student body. Every other dorm has 2 voices in the student government, Clodfelter said. The presence of a coed senator will be tacit acknowledgment of the coming realization that coeds are an actual part of this student body.

The girls seemed to express an active interest in running for the office. Many said the establishment of this senate seat is important to them since it would mean an active voice in such issues as dormitory regulations at Grey House. Many of the girls were particularly concerned about dormitory hours since some come from colleges with open dorm policies.has the second highest percentage of educated people. Its people are businessmen who control much of Bombay’s business and industry and much of the trade in other parts of India and in East Africa. The University of Baroda is among India’s best, and is perhaps her most experimental, Bevan said. Her student body numbers about 15,000; her faculty, about 1,000. It is primarily a “liberal arts” college, with course offerings in areas similar to those at Davidson.

Faculty Approves Two Amendments
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

Proposals for student representation on the Admissions Committee and the Budget, Building and Grounds Committee passed by majority vote on first reading at the faculty meeting Wednesday. In order for these amendments to be included in the faculty constitution, however, they must survive a second reading by a three-fourths vote of the faculty at its next meeting, and then be endorsed by the trustees.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said that the vote on the Admissions Committee proposal was 51-29, while that on the Budget, Building and Grounds Committee proposal was 42-33. Spencer said the faculty expressed some concern about the actual function of the Budget, Building and Grounds Committee. “This particular section of the faculty constitution deals with what is termed ‘faculty concerns,’” Spencer said. “Since this may include policy on faculty salaries, several faculty members expressed hesitancy in allowing student input on this subject.”

The Admissions Committee proposal allows for two students selected by the student Senate from nominees presented to the Senate by any member of the student body. Although the students on the committee will not have access to confidential information or vote on the application of policy to individual cases, they will be able to express their opinion on general admissions (See REPRESENTATION, p. 8).

Peace Coalition Outlines Fall
By TOM BRUCE
Staff Writer

An October Moratorium, a National Peace Action Day, and a continuing campaign to end the draft will comprise the major portion of the Fall Offensive for the Davidson Peace Coalition. Outlining the programs for the coming year, Ralph Peeples, spokesman for the group, said he hoped that classes might be suspended for National Moratorium Day, Oct. 13. Peeples said that a suspension of classes would allow the community to hear speakers and attend discussions in an effort to bolster local consciousness about the continuation of the Vietnam War.

Peeples then unfolded proposals for the National Peace Action Day, scheduled for Nov. 6. National leaders for the event call for massive regional demonstrations in 12 population pockets, including Washington, D.C., and Atlanta, Georgia. Peeples said that these demonstrations will feature massive civil disobedience in an effort to dramatize the death toll among Vietnamese civilians and soldiers and American soldiers.

The uncertain status of the Selective Service Laws prompted Peeples to urge increased letter-writing to postpone indefinitely reinstatement of the law. Peeples shifted the discussion to a thorough denunciation of the “Write Hanoi” campaign, popular last spring in this area. He contended that evidence now shows that the campaign was a deliberate effort by the government to replace public outrage with the conduct of the War to concern for U.S. P.O.W.’s. He added that citizens concerned about the “prisoner issue” might better write their own capital in Washington.

DEDICATION TO PEACE
Ralph Peeples unveils plans for Fall Offensive.