Page Two February 12, 1971

The Davidsonian

Social System Works Up To Par

In an exclusive interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN, Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer has indicated that the college’s new social
system is working as well as can be expected. “I wouldn't say that the new social system is a failure
at all,” Spencer said. “The overall plan submitted by the Committee of Eighteen is very good.

“The problems which exist,” he continued, “are those of working through the mechanics of the system, changing from the old
to the new. There are bound to be imperfections in such a change.”

Regarding the recent change in the method of house assignment by Dean of Students Will H. Terry, Spencer said that
such an alteration “indicates that any transition will have some difficulties. Some things, such as the method of assignment, are
done by trial and error.

“We realize that we should have done a better preparation job at the houses to provide a system whereby the
freshmen would be more welcomed.”

Spencer emphasized that the problems of the transitional year are different and more difficult from the overall problems of the
new social system. “Everyone expected this to be the most difficult time.”

The existing social system was approved by the Board of Trustees in its fall meeting and was first instituted following
the Christmas vacation. According to the college administration, it will be fully operative next fall. The present social system replaced
the old selective fraternity system.

Regarding the trustee decision, Spencer said that “I don’t think that there is much chance of the trustees going back
on their decision. Of course, I don’t speak for them.”

By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor

The fight to keep Rennie Davis, one of the Chicago Seven, off campus has sparked student opinion and brought attention
from the outside. Senior Chip DuRant, who spearheaded the movement, has already had his say on the Charlotte news media,
and now he intends to circulate a petition as well as wage a letter-writing campaign.

“I cannot believe,” DuRant said, “that Davidson

Freshman Policy Plans Junior Hall Counselors

By SCOTT DAVIDSON Staff Writer

Applications for hall counselors were filed last week, but for the first time only rising juniors were invited to submit
applications. Dean of Students Will H. Terry stressed that this was a new policy that had been adopted, not a
hard and fast regulation. Terry stated, “The observations are that hall counselors who are seniors and have already served their
junior year do not approach the job with the same zeal as juniors.

Associate Editors: DICK ANDERSON CECIL BURNEY ADRIAN LONG PAUL ROWLAND JOE SMITH

Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON RICHARD WILSON

Sports Editor: JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors: DOUG BROWN ROBERT TOUCHTON

Copy Editors: STEVE CROSS DAVID HANIG JAMES HANNA

News Editor: ALEC HOON

Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON BILL LYLE

Ass’t Sports Editor: A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists: J. B. FAWCETT ZACK MOBLEY CULLUM ROGERS DARYL WILLIAMS

Circulation Managers: BRUCE PUCKETT HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers: DAVE DOTY ROGER MANLEY SAM RAMACHANDRAN BOB STRAND

Contributors this week: Scott Davidson, Dave Tierney, Peter Michael, Howard Boyd, and Steve Bennett.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

Our feedback from senior hall counselors confirms this. “It is our general impression that seniors, very rightly, have their minds
on other things, namely graduate school, plans to get married, the army—all the things seniors would like to get ready
for next year.“Also, many seniors would rather use their spring term to be with their friends in the senior class
who they've known for four years and won't see again, rather than being tied to other responsibilities.” When questioned on
the new policy, Mrs. Scotty Nicholls, director of student housing, said that it was “primarily on the recommendation and performance
of seniors who have served in the past.” Mrs. Nicholls remarked that the new policy would not affect the quality
of the counselors selected, since most applications come from rising juniors anyway. “It is rare to have a senior applying
who wasn’t applying for a second time.”

When viewing his second year in the job, senior counselor Alan Kirkpatrick said, “The only advantage to a senior is
in the experience he has had. The disadvantage is that you lose a lot of enthusiasm between the first and
second year, and with that enthusiasm, you lose some things helpful and necessary.”

The building, which will house from 12 to 15 co-ed exchangees next year, has been vacant for some time, and
seemed to college officials to be the answer to problems that have arisen concerning the housing of the present coeds.

“I could support with money a guy who advocates the destruction of our system of courts and laws—even our government.
I’ve already received calls and letters from numerous alumni who stand behind me, and many students have told me that
they want to do anything they can to help.” A form letter was sent out this week to Davidson students,
faculty, trustees, and to the 51 presidents of college alumni associations. In addition, other copies were mailed to the Charlotte
Observer, the Charlotte News, WSOC, and WBTV.

DuRant feels that one of the worst facets of this situation is the role of the SGA in selecting Davis
as a speaker. “It's bad enough that we're paying him $1,000, but it’s even worse that the SGA never thought
about other students.” His next move is to collect the required 100 signatures necessary for a referendum and then to
confront the student Senate. “Hopefully there will be enough pressure applied by alumni, trustees, faculty, and this petition to influence
the new senate to reconsider.” DuRant added that, “There will be some form of protest, peaceful of course, against his
presence if the lecture is not cancelled.” He said the demonstrators will probably wear coats and ties.

Mounts Anti-Davis Drive

Newly-installed SGA President Danny Clodfelter commented: “If a petition is brought, then we'll see what the senate will want to
do, but as of now Davis is coming on March 1. There is no way we can please everybody on
the speakers we choose.” Clodfelter added, “The senate discussed the matter fully before voting 11-2 to bring him here, and
a ceiling of $1,000 was set.” He said that the rumor about Davis speaking at the University of South Carolina
for $500 was completely false. Clodfelter also commented on the current wave of student petitions: “We will run referendums, but
I wonder why so many turn out to vote and then turn around and assume that these people they have
elected are not fit to represent them.”

DURANT - gaining support...

RHC Opens Dorms

(Continued from p. 1)

There is no room in the present dorms for large events such as the showing of motion pictures. In other
action, the RHC spent $450 to sponsor the first campus-wide beer party in the history of this campus. It will
be held this Saturday afternoon in the lobby of Belk Dorm. Burney told THE DAVIDSONIAN that the college is finally
seriously talking about the renovation of Cannon Hall this summer. The RHC will apparently favor putting all next year’s freshman
class in Belk Dorm if the long halls in that dorm can be broken by doors separating sections of the
dorm.
