Page Two. April 30, 1971

Yearbook Wins In Student Poll
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Asst. Managing Editor

The student body recently rejected two options dealing with the college yearbook, one to cut funds by several thousand dollars, and another to completely abolish the annual. Option number one, which provided for funding comparable to past years, received a plurality of the votes cast in the Tuesday poll, but the two other options, which would shave the budget by various amounts, received the majority vote.

SGA President Danny Clodfelter, commenting on the referendum, said, “The vote really puts us in a financial squeeze. We looked around for somewhere we felt we could cut costs, and the yearbook appeared the best place. We may have to cut funds anyway.”

The Finance Committee, composed of students and administrators, met yesterday afternoon to consider the vote and its impact on future funding of the annual. The poll is only an indicator, and rejection of the results is a definite possibility. SGA Vice-president Bill Alexander said, “I'm glad option one won, because I'd like to see a good annual rather than seeing the money go to some of the other sources which it could go to. I’d rather see it go to the yearbook than any other group that might get the money.”

Option one, to present funding of $10,000-$13,000, received 203 first-place votes. Option two, to cut funds to $3,500-$7,000, was named first by 159 voters. Option three, to discontinue publication, received 94 first-choice votes. Under a weighted method giving three votes for a first choice, two for second choice, and one for third choice, option one received 965 votes, option two 1035 votes, and option three 746 votes. There were 18 incomplete ballots listing option one first; 9 ballots with option two chosen first; and 9 ballots choosing option three first. These voters chose only one option rather than putting all three in order of preference.

There is a chance that the makeup of the ballot provides misleading results. Since they were to be marked according to preference (1, 2, 3), it is only normal that option number two will be marked with the most twos since options one and three were diametrically opposed.

Food Service Plans
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

At an Open End discussion Monday night, representatives from the Slater food service outlined future administrative plans for the cafeteria and fielded complaints on the union food. District Manager John L. Hitzel confirmed the intention of his company to accept a plan of 20 meals per week with a limit of 17 meals (randomly selected by the student) for a ticket holder. This cutback in the number of meals will be affected for several reasons. One is the financial status of the college. Another is the necessity of moving the cafeteria next year since the College Union will be torn down. The most important reason, however, is that the freshmen eating in the cafeteria will be encouraged to take two other meals not provided for by the ticket at the eating clubs on Patterson Court. Hitzel said that he hopes “this setup will make the court more attractive while not compelling students to eat there.”

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Copy Editors:
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Photography Editors:
DAVE DOTY
JOHN DAVIDSON

Ass't Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
CHARLIE RALSTON
BILL LYLE

Contributors this week:
Charlie Terrell, Howard Boyd, Dave Tierney, and Windy March.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

Students Kent Briard, Edgar Weir, and Rhett Saslow recline here, pumping their fists to fill a plastic bag with one pint of blood. Their donation was “this setup will make the court more attractive while not compelling students to eat there.”He added that a transferable 13-14 meal ticket is also a possibility for next year. Hitzel acknowledged the cuts that the college is making in the food program for next year, but stated that they will be made in areas which will not be reflected in the food budget for the average student. If the eating clubs work well next year, Hitzel remarked that Slater will be ready to cater for four of the houses on the court in future years, compensating for the diminished cafeteria service. Responding to a request for a la carte prices on individual items, Hitzel said that Slater intends to provide them next year but that such a program will have to be kept separate from the flat-rate meal ticket plan in order to keep overall meal prices down for the ticket holder. “The more variety you build into any eating program, the more unwieldy it becomes to feed the individual at a decent price,” he said.

Junior Whit Ayers had a variety of complaints about the quality of the food presently being served, citing tough meat, cold food, spoiled milk, and stale bread. “If there is a particular type of cake that nobody wants, it will sit up there for days until somebody takes it. I can count on the fingers of one hand the number of fresh cakes I've had this year. I think you people would have a lot less criticism if you would eliminate these small problems,” concluded Ayers. Hitzel promised to remedy these problems within the week, which he said was the reason for his visit to the campus.

The discussion then turned to the status of employees in the cafeteria. In response to complaints that the waitresses were often unpleasant and irascible in serving students, Hitzel commented that the attitudes of workers are a delicate problem. “We cannot motivate people,” he said, paraphrasing another author. “We can only offer an atmosphere in which they will motivate themselves.” Mildred Heffelfinger, a supervising dietitian for the Slater food service who was inspecting the local situation, explained the difficulty of training people for cafeteria jobs. “To serve somebody is a work of art. Employees must be educated to a point where they can adequately wait on a group.” She added that Slater often paid tuitions at local schools to send employees there for courses in human relations.

Outside Perspective
By ALEC HOON
News Editor

Students on the Board of Trustees? On April 20, the North Carolina Senate voted to make student government presidents voting members of the board of trustees at state universities, the Daily Tar Heel has reported. The proposal, which passed by a vote of 44-2, will now go on to the N.C. House of Representatives for ratification.

Wake Forest Formulates New Scholarship Policy
According to Wake Forest Director of Admissions and Financial Aid William G. Starling, “no qualified student (will) be turned away because of lack of finance.” The college newspaper, The Old Gold and Black, also stated that the only qualifications necessary for a student to be eligible for aid are that the candidate pass all admittance requirements and demonstrate a genuine financial need.

P.E. Requirements Dropped at William and Mary
No physical education will be required next year for William and Mary students who pass skill tests in four activities, one of which must be swimming, according to the school newspaper, The Flat Hat. Another innovation of the new curriculum being established at the college is that a student may petition the Committee on Degrees to pass a course by taking an appropriate examination. If the student passes the exam made up by the department involved, he would receive certified credit by the College Registrar.

Furman Acquires a Psychiatrist
Through cooperation with the Greenville Area Mental Health Center, Furman University has obtained the services of Dr. Ronald C. Bloodworth, a psychiatrist, for one half a day a week for consultations, The Paladin, the school newspaper, has announced.