| She Wavidaaiters April 30, 1971 " Page Nine

Thinclads Seek Fourth In SC Meet.
By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

The Southern Conference track meet is scheduled for this weekend at East Carolina University, and Davidson coach Heath Whittle has
hopes for a strong finish for the Wildcats.

“I hope we can finish fourth,” Whittle said. “We placed fourth in the indoor meet this winter, and I hope
we can repeat the performance this weekend."

The two-day event will begin today with the preliminaries. The finals will be held tomorrow.

Junior Tommy Richardson, the Cats' premier sprinter, is a doubtful performer for Davidson. Whittle stated that Richardson has been bothered
by a pulled muscle in his leg for a couple of weeks, and it is questionable whether or not he
will be ready by this weekend.

Whittle said the main hopes for the Wildcats are Kirley in the shot put and the discus, David Crumpler in
the discus, Ed Dobbs in the javelin, and Ray Swetenburg in the triple jump and the high hurdles. He said
he also has hopes that the 440 and mile relay teams will place.

Whittle mentioned Swetenburg as a possible for first place finishes in both of his events. “He will have a lot
of competition,” he remarked, “and he will have to do his best.”

Sig Eps, Delts Hold Lead
By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The SPEs and Delts remained unbeaten and atop their respective leagues in IMAC softball this week.

In League B, the SPEs rolled past the KAs 18-7 and crushed Cannon 1 20-0 to stretch their win skein
to six. The SPEs have depended on good hitting and near-flawless defense thus far and appear the team to beat
in League B. Shortstop Buzz Tarver and centerfielder Larry Duncan have provided the long ball, while the pitching of Robin
Gray and John Bruner's glove at second key the defense.

The Pikas whipped the Gamms 12-7, Watts-Belk 25-2 and East 1 11-7 to move into undisputed second at 5-1. Their
only loss, 19-4 to the Delts, came early, and now that the hitting is coming around and the defense is
improving, the Pikas are again a top threat. Vet catcher Ken Prestwich is the top home run threat, and teams
with versatile Mark Affeldt and outfielder George Graff to spark the team.

The Gamms are 4-2 after the Pika loss and a 12-11 win over W-B, and hold third. The Gamms were
hurt by the loss of several key performers, but have gotten good clutch hitting. They need to score more runs
and make the big play defensively if they are to challenge. Bill Telford is a three-year veteran on the mound.
Sophs Harold Bailey and Bruce Jack, Greg Cameron, and Batten have helped defensively.

The Indies, strengthened by inactives, have a well-rounded squad which has come through in the clutch both offensively and defensively.
Last week, the Indies topped W-B and East I 11-9, before losing to the Betas 7-4 Wednesday night, and are
now 4-3.

The Betas moved into a tie for third with the Gamms at 4-2 by virtue of their win over the
Indies. Pitcher Earl Ellis, speedy Jay Bowen, John Douglas, and Henry Marrow lead the Betas, who have lost only to
the SPEs and to Cannon I 7-4 on Thursday.

Meanwhile, in League A the Delts turned a well-balanced attack and airtight defense plus five Machi errors into a 10-2
triumph.In a battle of unbeatens Tuesday night, nine Delts hit safely in a twelve-hit assault, and Dave Most hurled a
five-hitter. The Machis jumped off to a 2-0 lead behind the hitting of John Saunders and Jim Hudson, but the
Delts broke loose for seven runs in the fourth to put it away. The Delts ripped Cannon I 14-6 and
won over the Pi Kaps by forfeit in other action last week and stand 7-0. The Machis dropped to second
at 6-1, gaining forfeits over the Snus and the SAEs and pounding East I 20-4 behind Saunders’ five hits and
Hudson's four RBIs. The Sigs bounced back from that heartbreaking loss to the Delts last week with a 10-6 win
over Cannon II to hold third place at 5-1. The fourth-place Taus won over the Snus in a forfeit and
belted East II 11-6 Wednesday for their fourth win in six starts.

Steve, as well as his best this year. But Ray has the capability of earning two firsts.” Whittle picked William
and Mary as a shoo-in for first place in the conference meet. “There is no other school in the Southern
Conference who can come close to beating them,” he said. He said second place would be a real close contest
between Furman and the host team, East Carolina. After Davidson, he predicted The Citadel, Richmond, and V.M.I. would scramble for
the last three places. Whittle mentioned four outstanding performers who will be competing in the meet. He said the conference
record most likely to fall is the 100-yard dash mark, which is now 9.5 seconds. William and Mary's Mike Fratkin
has already run 9.5 several times this year. Whittle said the meet would have two outstanding long-distance men in Jim
Kidd of East Carolina and Howell Michaels of William and Mary. Kidd beat Michaels in the indoor meet this year
in the mile, but Whittle said he did not believe the two would meet this weekend. “If Kidd enters the
mile, Michaels will run in the 880 and vice versa,” he continued. Whittle said that whichever events they enter, each
will win a first. He added that Michaels, last year’s A.A.U. mile champion, should also win the steeplechase.

In the last meet for the Wildcats on their regular season schedule, Davidson traveled to The Citadel on April 21.
With only four events to go and Davidson trailing by a narrow margin, Whittle said, “The rains came, and the
wind blew." Lightning struck a transformer near the track, and some wires fell across the backstretch. Since the teams were
so close, the meet was called “no contest” and will not be completed. Davidson was paced by Swetenburg and Richardson
in the indoor meet as Swetenburg took the hurdles crown and Richardson the 60-yard dash in an upset over Mike
Fratkin. Richardson has not seen any action since his injury. Next weekend the team will compete in the North Carolina
meet at Duke University in Durham.

STUDY SOUNDS IMPROVE GRADES
Improve Grades While Devoting The Same Amount Of Time To Study — Use Study Sounds. Increase Your Concentration And Improve
Your Comprehension. Study At A Faster Rate. Electronically Produced sounds cause this To Happen. Please Specify 8 Track Tape, Cassette,
Or LP Record. Send Check or Money Order—$9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage, Sound Concepts, Inc.,—Box 3852, Charlottesville, Va.
22902.

NORTH BROAD ST. Phone 892-1106
TREND’S CAR OF THE YEAR IS NO BIG THING. IT’S VEGA.
Safety Chevrolet Co. O. L. No. 1407
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
