Vol. LXI No. Ten The Davidsonian Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students DECEMBER 3, 1971

EPC Adopts Program Of 3-Year Grad

By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) has unanimously adopted a proposal that would, in effect, allow up to 5% of each class to graduate from Davidson in three years rather than four. However, this report has to be submitted to the faculty for its approval. The new accelerated program will not apply to this year's graduating class.

Those who will be eligible for accelerated progress will be those upper-class students with a grade point average of 3.0 or better for each of the two preceding terms. Also, freshmen may apply for accelerated progress with the recommendation of their freshman adviser. Those seeking to accelerate, who must not be more than 5% of any class, must receive the approval of the Curriculum Requirements Committee and the department in which they plan to major. Students pursuing accelerated progress will take four courses rather than three courses each term.

In addition to those in the accelerated program, students desiring an enriched educational experience or those who are deficient in courses, may take four courses each term. Those students who want an enriched program or who are deficient in a course must receive the approval of the Curriculum Requirements Committee, and they are to be counted as part of the 5% of each class allowed to take four courses each term.

Students will be allowed to take a maximum of four courses per term under this proposal, and they will not be charged an additional tuition fee. No additional tuition will be charged under the assumption that the Comprehensive Fee will take effect next year as scheduled. All students will be required to graduate in either June or August, and if only one or two terms are necessary for completion of graduation requirements in the last year, these terms will be spring and winter terms respectively. In other words, a student cannot attend classes during the fall term, and then not be at Davidson for the winter and spring terms. The reason for this provision is to prevent an accelerating student from displacing a prospective student from admission in the fall.

Accelerating students will be able to register for their fourth course only after all other students have registered. The fourth course cannot be an extended studies course. The EPC feels that it is better to spread students taking a fourth course into those courses where the ceilings have not been reached. In this manner, students pursuing regular progress will be able to complete the regular four-year program with their normal priority and progress.

The Accelerated Progress subcommittee of the EPC was chaired by Associate Professor of Philosophy Earl R. MacCormac, and other members were Professor of Mathematics Robert B. Jackson and student representative Doug Brown. The EPC is using the 5% ceiling on each class as a trial figure, and it very well may change when it is determined what the student demand is for accelerated progress.

The EPC believes that a combination of advanced placement credits and taking four courses per term will enable some students to graduate in three years rather than four. The present academic regulations do make some provision for accelerated progress, but accelerated progress has not been a concept which has been actively pushed by the College. Most students seeking accelerated progress have had to rely almost entirely on attending summer school each summer.

The Accelerated Progress subcommittee was formed at the behest this fall of Vice-President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan who serves as chairman of the EPC. The new emphasis on accelerated progress is another attempt on his part to make Davidson’s curriculum more flexible and compatible with the needs of today’s student. Those students who will be able to pursue accelerated progress will be able to reap a substantial financial saving, especially if they are able to complete their studies in three years.

By ALEC HOON
Asst. Managing Editor

Freshmen are now being assigned to eating clubs on a weekly basis in order to revitalize lackadaisical freshmen interest in the new social program. Dean of Students Will H. Terry made the change after extensive conferences with hall counselors, interested freshmen, and fraternity presidents. “We have subdivided the halls into four groups. TheFreshmen in these groups eat every lunch and dinner for a week at a specific house. They are assigned to two different houses during each ten-week period,” Terry explained.

Trustees Make Final Decision On Facade
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

A final decision concerning the facade of the new library has been reached, according to Warner L. Hall, chairman of the board of trustees. Hall said that the facade will have a “more open and inviting appearance” than the first proposal, yet it will still harmonize with the other buildings on campus.

The arcade has been removed in favor of a frontal facade with a two-story porch and columns. The new library will also have “a good deal more glass in the library front which will give it a more open appearance,” Hall said. An artist's conception of how the library will look after completion is currently being prepared and will be released as soon as it is received from the architects, according to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

After tabling one proposed sketch at the October meeting, the board directed the Executive Committee to view revised sketches and make the final decision. At a meeting Nov. 18, the Executive Committee jointly convened with the trustee Building and Grounds Committee and the Library Planning Committee and viewed three new sketches presented by the architects, and the final decision was reached by a considerable majority of those present.

Hall said that the interior of the library as well as the East, North, and South facades will be the same as in the first proposal. Hall also said that demolition of the Union and construction of the library are still scheduled to begin in the Spring soon after final examinations.

(Staff photo by Barnes)

PATTERNS OF AUTUMN

Terry Assigns Freshmen To Clubs On Weekly Basis

Freshmen and upperclassmen alike had complained about the difficulty in establishing any kind of relationship with a person when they only came in contact at the houses twice a week for a five-week period. Terry said he hoped that “the new program would promote more interest among all involved, especially the freshmen.”

Tim Spencer, a freshman eating at the Delt house, stated that he thought the change was a definite improvement. “Eating at the house every day has given me a better chance to really meet some of the people down there. For their part, they are making a genuine effort to make me feel at home,” Spencer said.

Initial freshmen response has been mixed according to the reception given at the various eating clubs. Where the clubs are making an effort to include freshmen in their activities, the freshman reaction is good. However, where the houses are doing little to promote the new system, many freshmen remain discouraged about the prospects for this most recent change.

Terry noted that other changes are in the offing to further enhance the program’s appeal for freshmen. “We hope to increase social opportunities on the court for freshmen. Improvements are still needed to incorporate freshmen more in the social life of the eating clubs,” Terry said.

As it now stands, all freshmen are being encouraged to participate in the social life of the house to which they were most recently assigned. Terry emphasized that the majority of students who are not presently assigned to any house for the first week period can go to any social events of the house to which they were last assigned in the fall term.

“One eating club has extended an open social invitation to any of the students on a hall in which only one quarter have been officially assigned to participate in the club’s social life,” he said.

Visiting Scholar

Samuel P. Huntington, Piedmont Visiting Scholar and professor of government at Harvard University, will speak today on “Political Development in a Shrinking World,” at 10 a.m. in the Morrison Room. For three years Huntington served as the Associate Director of the Institute of War and Peace Studies. He is currently editor of the new journal “Foreign Policy.” He has served as a consultant to the Policy Planning Council of the Department of State, the Agency for International Development, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense. Huntington is the author of the book “Political Order in Changing Societies.”