WAITING FOR WAKE (Staff Photo by Doty)

The Davidson offense prepares for tomorrow's clash with Wake Forest.

The Davidsonian
September 10, 1971
Page Seven

Untried Wildcats Open With Wake
By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The 1971 edition of the Davidson football team will be unveiled Saturday night, as the Wildcats journey to Winston-Salem for a clash with highly regarded Wake Forest. Davidson coach Dave Fagg was faced with severe graduation losses, and will field a relatively young, inexperienced squad. A lot of questions will be answered when the 'Cats get their baptism of fire Saturday.

“The defense is pretty well

Two Quarterbacks Lead Offense
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Seldom does one encounter a football team that could be described as schizophrenic. Football teams normally inspire a great number of adjectives, many of them in psychological terms, but usually they run along the lines of “ambitious” or “aggressive.” The Wildcat team that faces the Demon Deacons tomorrow night could be described as schizophrenic. It has two heads.

The team's dual identity stems from the fact that the ‘Cats have two starting quarterbacks. Rick Kemmerlin and Scotty Shipp are both filling in the key slot and neither seems to have developed much of an edge over the other.

“They are both doing an excellent job,” said Ernie Tall, Davidson's new backfield coach, “and it’s hard to say right now who has the advantage.” Shipp quarterbacked in the Catawba scrimmage and led the ‘Cats to their victory, but Kemmerlin got a lot of time in too. Tall said that Shipp will likely lead off in the Wake game, because he is a little faster than Kemmerlin, and could possibly work better with a running backfield. But he would forecast nothing else.

“We're going to go with Scotty because he’s looked real good in practice the last couple of days,” he said, “but we will likely play Rick a good deal, too.” So, still two quarterbacks, neither actually edging out the other.

Shipp is considered a “sort of triple threat man” by the coaches. He is a good passer, an accomplished runner and the team's punter. He got a little more experience than Kemmerlin last year behind Mark Thompson, including a 51-yard scoring pass against VMI. But Kemmerlin is still considered the team’s best passer by Tall. Shipp’s performance in the spring game showed 12 passes completed for 15. Kemmerlin hit 12 of 18.

Tall also said that both Shipp and Kemmerlin exhibited comparable talents for team leadership. “Each will make a fine quarterback,” he said, “they can both work with the team and are good leaders.” And so the Wildcats continue with two heads, quarterbacks of roughly equal ability - Scotty Shipp considered by some to be more of a ground attack quarterback, and Rick Kemmerlin, the Wildcat passer.

Lowry Signed As Freshman Cager

The Davidson cagers concluded their recruiting for this year with the signing of Jim Lowry during the summer. Lowry averaged 22 points a game as a senior in Henderson, Ky. and was named all-State honorable mention. He shot 44 percent from the floor and 78 percent from the foul line. During his senior year, Lowry averaged eight assists per game. Lowry is the son of a past Wildcat cager. Lowry is the fourth recruit to join the Wildkittens, Greg Dunn, Larry Horowitz and Sheldon Parker were recruited during the past year.

Two New Coaches Join Cat Gridders
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

Two new faces will be on the sidelines tomorrow night when the Wildcats meet the Wake Forest Demon Deacons, and they belong to assistant coaches Ernie Tall and Alex Gettys. The addition of Tall, who will handle the offensive backs and receivers, and Gettys, who will work with the defensive line, compensates for the loss of Will Campagna, former Davidson assistant now coaching at A. L. Brown High School in Kannapolis.

Tall is a graduate of Western Michigan University, where his playing career was curtailed by an injury as a freshman. He served as Western Michigan freshman and “redshirt” coach from 1966 through 1969. He then movedto the University of South Carolina as a graduate assistant on Paul Dietzel’s staff. At Western Michigan, he earned a degree in physical education and mathematics, and holds a master's degree in education from South Carolina. “I’m happy to be here, and this is a fine opportunity for me to work with Dave Fagg,” Tall remarked. “The program here is on the upswing, and I know we'll be there Saturday,” he concluded.

When Gettys was a freshman player at The Citadel in 1965, an assistant coach named Dave Fagg was there also. Since then, the 24-year-old native of Pickens, S.C., has earned his degree in business administration and is nearing completion of work at South Carolina for his master's degree. Like Tall, he was a graduate assistant under Dietzel last year. Gettys describes the defensive line as a blend of untested and experienced players. He cited junior Bill Garrett as one of the finest tackles in the conference. “However, we will be inexperienced at the other tackle spot and we will rely heavily on sophomores for our back-up positions,” he noted.

Preparing the players to play Wake Forest presents a great challenge to Gettys. “The attitude is just out-of-sight, really excellent, and we are going into this game to win,” he commented. He has been particularly impressed with the way the team worked during training at Camp Carolina and other pre-season work. Praising his former coach, he pointed out that “Coach Fagg really has the interest of the players at heart. He is young enough to remember what it was like to be a player.”

To many spectators and football scribes, a Davidson-Wake Forest match-up seems a bit ludicrous, but as Gettys puts it, “we have everything to gain from this game.” If he and Tall have anything to do with it, the Wildcats will do more than just “be there.”

“Set,” says Fagg. “But we still have some fights for offensive positions.”

On defense, Mike Sikes and Jimmy Hardison will start at the ends. Both have been shifted from linebacker. Bill Garrett returns at one tackle, where he should shine, while sophomore Mike McFarland will start opposite him. Seniors Woody Montgomery, John Barbee, Norris, and Joe Poteat form a veteran, solid corps of linebackers. The deep men are also experienced, as Tom Vandiver, John Maloney, and Terry Woodlief return.

On offense, however, a rash of injuries has caused headaches for Fagg in an area which already had many question marks. The Wildcats expect a more balanced attack this year, with last year’s top rushers, John Ribet and Bill Bracken, returning. “I don’t think we’ll be quite as bound by down, distance, and field position play-calling tendencies as we have been in the past,” Fagg said. Scotty Shipp and Rick Kemmerlin are running neck-and-neck for the starting nod at quarterback. “Shipp has the inside track but the position is still up for grabs,” according to Fagg.

Either can throw capably, so the Wildcats won't abandon the airways completely, but there should be less passing coupled with the improved running game. Harold Wilkerson’s kicking is a plus, also. The offensive line was decimated by graduation and is the team’s biggest question mark. Tight end Andy Davis is the only returning starter. Guards Robert Elliot and Jim Ellison, and split end Randy Parker are lettermen who move up from last year’s second team. Larry Spears and Gary Coulter are the tackles with Bill Nicklas at center. All are junior non-lettermen.

About Wake Forest, defending ACC champions and favored to repeat, Fagg says, “They have one of the finest college backfields in the country and their defense is going to be a lot better than they would lead you to believe.” The Deacons have 15 starters back from the 1970 squad, including All-ACC quarterback Larry Russell and All-ACC fullback Larry Hopkins. Russell directs the Wake Forest veer offense, and Fagg claims that “Russell is the best veer quarterback in the country.” Besides Hopkins, the Deacons have several other quick-striking backs and a fine passing attack. All-American candidate Bill Bebber anchors the offensive line.