Page Two May 14, 1971 The Davidsonian

The Rush Is On For Registration

Registration for classes for the fall term of the next academic year has been scheduled for Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday,
and there will be several changes in the format. According to Dr. Richard C. Burts, college registrar, the changes in
registration should help because it will give the students a chance to choose alternate courses and because it will make
screening by professors of classes possible.

The registration forms, which were mailed to students Wednesday, include instructions for registration. Burts emphasized that the present process is
the final registration and that there will be no pre-registration for classes. “In the past when we've had pre-registration, the
students have had the attitude that they can always easily change their schedules," Burts said. "Now, since there will be
no other registration, we are hoping for a seriousness about it that will be beneficial."

Burts pointed out that students can register for only the fall term, and can simply plan tentative schedules for their
personal use for the winter and spring terms. According to Burts, the students will be given alternate choices for courses
in case their primary courses are already filled, or a professor screens them out of his class.

Under the new registration procedure, the student must get approval from his adviser to take the courses of his choice.
He then goes to the individual professor teaching the course to get the professor’s approval and signature and to receive
a “course card.” This process, Burts pointed out, gives the student the chance to find out from the professor what
the course will require and will give the professor the opportunity to screen the student.

On Monday, rising seniors will go through the registration procedure between the hours of 10 and 11 in the morning
and between 3:30 and 4:30 that afternoon. Rising juniors will register on Tuesday at the same times, and rising sophomores
will register during the two-hour sessions on Wednesday. Burts said that “this should be a firmer registration with fewer changes
later. It should be a more effective registration.”

THE TOWN BEHIND MAIN STREET

Davidson has its share of eyesores. The clean-up this week is designed to improve the surroundings as well as the
relations in the community.

Clean-up Nets Campus Support

By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor

Clean-up Week has brought a meeting of town and campus, with Davidson students working in the community to remove eyesores
and to alleviate pollution problems. Beginning Monday, the ROTC department volunteered some students who rode on a garbage truck all
over town, picking up odd wastes and wreckage. Clean-up groups from the Davidson College YMCA to Cub Scouts and a
local garden club scoured the town all week for trash, washing store windows and painting buildings downtown.

The activities were coordinated by Mrs. Jane Avinger, who was at a loss herself to describe everything that was going
on. On Wednesday and Thursday afternoons, members of Phi Delta Theta fraternity razed a dilapidated shed behind Mrs. Mary Copeland's
house on Main Street. The deal was interesting. The Delts promised to provide the muscle for the job if the
town would cart the rubble away. And they did.

One clean-up group had the daring to attack the natural septic hole on Griffith Road known as ‘Algae Pond’ by
the neighbors. Publicity for the week was terrific. Professor of English Frank W. Bliss photographed

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

Advertising Manager:
WHIT WHITWORTH

Copy Editors:
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Photography Editors:
DAVE DOTY
JACK TROTTER

Ass’t Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
CHARLIE RALSTON
FRANK ERWIN

Contributors this week:
Dave Tierney, Howard Boyd, Eric Vernor, and Greg Gerdy.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$7.00.a number of eyesores about the town and some of these were distributed to the local news media. Window shopping
this week in downtown Davidson also had more to offer than a façade of fabric and hardware tools. Everywhere there
were posters created by primitive bands armed with crayolas. Local school children sponsored this project, and a prize will be
awarded for the best poster. And there were some excellent ones, phrased as only a child can. “And the song
said America was beautiful,” goes one poster with a lime green Martian standing triumphantly on the earth, which is swallowed
up in foaming clouds of pollution. Other posters contrast children with sunshine faces and balloons in their hands with the
trash in the background. These events climax tomorrow with Town Day, a roster of festivities, including a parade, carnival rides
and amusements, games and contests, and good country and western and gospel music by local groups. All these activities will
take place at an outdoor parking area on the corner of Griffith and Main Street, and there will be a
supper with fish and hot dogs to cap off the day. The main attraction, of course, is the magic act
by Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith and his family at 7:15 in Love Auditorium.

Art Show And Concert Highlight Next Week

Davidson College’s annual student art show will open in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center at 7 p.m. Sunday. At 8:15
winners of studio awards and purchase awards will be announced, followed by the first public showing of several student-made films.
Throughout the building, paintings, drawings, prints, photographs, and sculpture by some 50 students in studio art classes will be on
exhibit. There will be no admission charge and the public is invited. The works were judged by Maud Gatewood, professor
of art at UNC-Charlotte. Davidson paint instructor Herb Jackson is coordinating the show. The Davidson College Music Department will present
a concert featuring Shirley Jackson on flute, Robert Jackson on trumpet, and Anita Bultman on piano and harpsichord at 8:30
p.m. Tuesday (May 18) in Hodson Hall. The program will open with “A Proclamation for Trumpet” (Bloch), and will be
followed by “Cantabile and Presto for Flute” (Enesco) and “Trumpet Concerto in Eb Major” (Hummel). Following an intermission will be
“Flute Concerto No. 2 in D Major” (Mozart) and “Concerto in D Major for Trumpet, Two Oboes, Strings and Continuo”
(Fasch).

Self (Continued from Page 1)

With it, the Kappa Alpha house is taking 17 pledges, and Sigma Phi Epsilon is taking 23 pledges. The Sigma
Chi house will officially fold for next year, and some of the other houses moving off campus hope to pick
up some of the remaining members. Altogether, about 160 freshmen are involved in the new social system for next fall.
The Self-Selection Committee, including students Tom Sinks, Brian Tarr, and Bruce Snyder, is pleased with the results. “I think that
the number of freshmen might increase later on,” Sinks said. “There is a good indication that it will. Every freshman
got his choice of houses which makes the program a great success. We've taken self-selection away from the computer and
it has worked swiftly, smoothly, and efficiently.” Upperclassmen will have a chance to self-select into a house with openings next
week on Thursday night from 10-12 p.m. in the lobby of the College Union.

Admissions Fifteen Short Of 300 Mark Next Fall

The Office of Admissions has been informed by 285 students that they have accepted Davidson's offer of admission to the
Class of 1975. Although the goal of 300 for next year's freshman class has not been achieved, the Office of
Admissions feels that it will be met. Thirty individuals have not informed Davidson of their final intentions for next year.
Some of these 30 have agreed to come to Davidson next year, but their $100 deposits have not been received
by the Office of Admissions and they are not counted towards the 300 goal. Davidson's minority student population will be
increased by one Mexican-American student and six blacks. Twelve blacks have been accepted, and there is the possibility that eight
will enroll next year.
