Che BDavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR DECEMBER 17, 1971

In Search Of A Chaplain

The resignation of Scott Woodmansee as college chaplain brings into the open some very sticky questions concerning the role of the chaplain at Davidson.

There have been many who from time to time howled for the chaplain’s blood, not because of his ineptitude or personality, but because of the seeming irrelevance and uselessness of his post. With the new-look Dean of Students office and the apparently successful counseling services, plus the work being done concerning programs and speakers by Union officials, one is left to wonder just what the need for a chaplain is. Indeed, with the new individualist emphasis in religion, the last functions of a chaplain are stripped away.

The issue runs deeper than this, however. For one thing, the college YMCA, which still serves as the students’ most effective and worthwhile work in the Davidson community, is directed and supported by the chaplain. Others perhaps could do the same job, but the amount of time and energy involved make such a possibility grim. Another consideration is that Davidson, like it or not, is still affiliated with the Presbyterian Church, and for all practical purposes is controlled by the block vote of Presbyterian ministers who make up a good third of the Board of Trustees. These men, and the majority of the college administrators and many of the faculty, feel a definite need here for some sort of a campus ministry, and they will not be swayed from this belief.

Thus, it seems logical to us that the college hire another chaplain, but do so by creating a new position with different functions and roles than the traditional chaplaincy. Davidson no longer needs the chaplain to handle programming or counseling or religious and spiritual development. Such duties can still be aided by the new chaplain, but such should not be his major concern. Rather, the new chaplain, as Woodmansee himself has suggested, could serve both the church and the college community by holding the position of associate minister at the church and chaplain here. The college would therefore be paying him less, he would have ties with both the students and the community, and neither students nor chaplain would feel the obnoxious obligation of having to entertain one another. If we have to have a chaplain, then let’s at least be realistic.

A More Perfect Union

We would like to thank President Spencer for his statement concerning the future of the college union. It is encouraging to note that the chief administrator of the college is concerned with the future of the social life of the school as well as the academic.

While we find it encouraging that the president has made the commitment that he has, we would like to see that commitment take a more definite form. The status of the union in President Spencer’s statement places the new union building in the same class with the other general promises of the past. The library which was expected to be in use this year, coeducation, and the Honors College, in operation for the last two years after a three-year span of inactivity, have all had the same sort of ringing endorsement from administration officials.

It is nice that the president is willing to speak out in favor of a new union building. It would be difficult to imagine a unionless campus, with no social center. But we would ask that the president, in consultation with his vice-presidents, students, the various building and grounds committees, etc., set a definite date for the beginning of construction on the new structure to be initiated immediately. The union building will still be a long way from construction even when the date is set, and we don’t believe that the campus can afford to do without for long.

Acknowledgments

Congratulations to Danny Clodfelter and Lawrence Wilkinson on their success in the Rhodes Scholarship competition. It is quite remarkable that Davidson should be honored by having both representatives for the state.

Appreciation to Scott Woodmansee for his years of service to Davidson College. His contribution to Davidson has been a welcome, if thankless, one. We wish him success with his new congregation.

HOWARD RAMAGLI

Hall Counselors Point Out Freshmen Leaving Davidson

Loud rock music poured into my bedroom. It was another typical Saturday night on the fraternity court. I looked at my clock which informed me it was two a.m. It seemed appropriate to assume all were having a good time. I was far from the truth.

At the beginning of the week I stumbled across the present movement by the hall counselors to petition the president of the college. The petition expressed their concern at the alarming number of freshmen who had already left Davidson with no intention of returning. They were also concerned about the number of freshmen who were initiating transfer processes. This freshman class is not like my class, all talk and very little action. They apparently do not wish to contend with the non-reality of the Davidson experience. Perhaps this is good; perhaps it is bad. It may be that this freshman class does not have the frustration tolerance of the classes of past years. Maybe they just have more sense than the rest of us.

Somehow we have all failed this freshman class. We all share the burden of placing these freshmen in a sterile community. My class has been here for four years and we have not yet influenced the people or produced the arguments to bring about coeducation. The hall counselors, the members of this community closestTo the freshman, I feel the underlying reason for the discontent in the class is coeducation. Although this may not encompass the totality of the reasoning, I feel that I must agree with the hall counselors. The many arguments for coeducation have been presented numerous times. I shall not go into them. However, it does seem that if Davidson goes coed, it will go for the wrong reasons. The administration's decisions will be based on considerations such as being able to obtain coeds who will not lower the academic standards and because these coeds will be able to "pay their way." The administration is confident it can find coeds who meet both of these criteria.

The administration places concern for student welfare and student needs low on its list of priorities. They wish to build a coeducational community out of totally financial considerations. They appear unconcerned with the human aspect of college education. The community owes a debt of thanks to the hall counselors for their human concern for the freshmen at Davidson. Their concern for the mental well-being of the freshmen, and perhaps for the mental well-being of us all, should be greatly appreciated. Even more than appreciated, their concerns should be our concerns and they should inspire us to action. We should unite in a community effort to bring down the sterile walls of monasticism and bring our community, possibly for the first time, into the light of reality.

BOBBY ALLEN

Christmas brings Goodwill Guns?

Peace on earth, goodwill to men. Yes, it's that time again. Time again to hear "peace and goodwill" preached about, sung about, read in Hallmark cards, seen in Belk’s window, painted on gift wrap—but not realized. I was in Charlotte this past weekend and was brave enough to venture out to one of the larger shopping centers to take some dry cleaning in. I passed a toy store—one of those shops hastily housed in a vacant slot in the center—and decided to drop in. It was the first time I had been in a real toy store (as opposed to a department store which sells toys) in a few years and I wanted to see what Santa would be bringing this year.

There it was, just as I walked in. Shiny grey and imitation wood. "The U.S. Fighting Man's Best Friend—THE M-1." Complete with plastic shells to shoot your best friend with. The same as when I was 8 or 9. It hasn't changed. So on Christmas morning, thousands of boys will run outside at 6 a.m. to play war or cowboys and Indians, or whatever name kids give it now. And they'll come back inside later to watch cartoon Tom and Jerries die a thousand deaths and live again, and a thousand TV bad guys get hit with a .44 slug from 10 feet and slump slowly to the floor. No blood, no pieces of flesh flying across the room, just a slow slump, and a "darn you, Matt Dillon."

But what about the kids who play Indians and Pakistanis, or Irish and British, or Israeli and Arabs—not with Mattel guns but with real ones. I wonder if they would like an M-1 for Christmas? If you've got a little brother or a cousin and want to give him a good present this year, give him an hour or two of your time. And if you really want to see his eyes light up, give him a refrigerator crate. If we can’t have peace on Earth this year, let's try building a little around ourselves.

Australian Praises Allen For ‘Common’ Language

To The Editor:

I am in receipt of a cutting entitled "Offensive Colloquial Language Forms Student Vernacular" and would like to congratulate you on your courage in making known something that has been normal language among the, ahem, "common herd" for ages past. Allow me to make plain some dark words in our language. You make known "two tits and an ass." In this country the word "ass" is spelled "arse" but means the same thing. What are words but the expression of what one thinks? Is it not also better to speak aloud what one may think in private? Even if we examine the Good Book we will see words like "piss." Is this word verboten in everyday language? Hardly. In Australia, if two men say "Let’s get on the piss" this doesn’t mean that they are going to drink each other's urine. It simply means that they are going to get on the grog. A normal colloquial expression.

If we go back to the time of Henry VIII we find such expressions as "buggery." The act of "buggerising about" would result in one or both losing one’s head—for the act of buggery was the act of homosexuality. "Shit" in Australia at any rate, is not all that horrid. Of course one, depending on whom one is, that is, is horrified by seeing such words as "shit" and "fuck" in print in newspapers but is this any the less obscene in being used openly. For the few Bobby Allens there are millions who say the same words behind closed doors—and smirk when they say those words—so that the Bobby Allens, the Clemson newspaper editor, the Mary Washington college editor and others should be praised and laughed at instead of being condemned.

Such words may appall and disgust the majority but so does the word "peace," therefore, go to it, mates, bring the world out into the open and let it blink in the daylight for those who would muzzle you are those who would be classified as "darkness endeavoring to illuminate light."

Alex. H. Rehardt
Queensland, Australia