, ‘1970-71 Was A Very Good Year’

AN ANALYSIS By RICH WILSON Managing Editor

It was a very good year. The faculty was mad, the students were mad, the administration was mad, and the
trustees were mad. It was a very good year. The focus for all the changes that occurred this year must
be directed toward the college administration. During this year we have seen a shuffle of administrative jobs which produced an
administration eager and able to move this college in an innovative fashion. The administration has managed to reduce faculty power
(which previously reigned supreme over this institution) and at the same time encourage student participation in certain decision-making areas.

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan was the first top administrator to move in and take charge. A
vibrant man with intense passions and very firm beliefs, Bevan quickly consolidated his power and began to rumble forward. The
faculty, grown accustomed to the slow and quiet manner of Frontis W. Johnston, was not prepared to meet the onslaught
of Bevan. They were quickly overcome by a mass of academic legislation.

Extended Studies transformed the stagnant and unsuccessful area exams program into original experimental programs with options in seminars, schoolwide programs,
individual and group projects both on and off campus. The Honors College began operation this year as well. Although this
program has proved a challenge to the participating students, it has become estranged from the rest of the college, with
the majority of the students viewing it as an elite organization. Other academic innovations were also instituted. Davidson introduced a
South Asian program; an art major was established and the academic regulations were revised.

In a recent development, Bevan successfully engineered the shift in emphasis of the physical education requirement from mere attendance to
attainment of proficiency. Bevan is a very powerful man in this college. Although he plays the students off against the
faculty and the faculty off against the students, he does it with such skill that both groups have difficulty in
assessing exactly what their own position is. But subjecting the students and faculty to a great deal of change can
also have a detrimental effect in that it may cause them to react negatively to innovative proposals. We must remember
that for any academic change to have full effect, it must have the full support of the faculty and students
who will implement and participate in the program.

As Vice President for Finance and Development, C. David Cornell has begun to reorder Davidson's financial priorities and establish this
school on a firm financial basis. Of course, any man who raises tuition and fees, limits the amount of financial
aid funds, and reduces the operations of such services as the laundry is not going to be very popular with
the students. A calm, smooth, and forward-looking man, Cornell will honestly answer questions directed to him, but he has a
tendency to brush under the rug those difficulties he hopes students won't discover. With the present climate of student suspicion,
Cornell must realize this is no longer a wise practice.

When Will Terry was named Dean of Students in January, the students couldn't believe he was assuming the job of
“chief enforcer of morals.” But in the few short months Terry has been in office, he has gained the respect
and confidence of most of the students. This summer and next year Terry will have to wrestle with his conscience
and his job on the subjects of open dorm conduct issues. Student leaders, however, are optimistic that Terry will successfully
juggle his counsel.

(See 1970, Page 10)

Vol LX, No. Twenty-Seven

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

May 21, 1971

Trustee Stand, Community Threaten Fraternity Move

AN ANALYSIS By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor

In addition to an inflexible trustee attitude toward off-campus facilities, the four fraternities which have considered leaving Patterson Court next
fall must now face the possible dilemma of new town zoning against boarding houses. At a town council meeting Monday
night, over 75 residents of Davidson petitioned for a hearing on zoning in residential areas of the town. Mayor Tom
Sadler remarked, “The basis of the petition was not represented as having anything to do with fraternities at the college.
The people who were there were concerned that the present zoning ordinance be changed to delete the permitted use of
certain areas for a boarding house.”

The present zoning law allows for a boarding house to be maintained anywhere in the town. The town council defines
a boarding house as “any building other than a hotel in which meals are served for compensation.” Sadler said that
there were three municipal areas in which boarding houses could be kept, those classified as ‘limitedbusiness,” “business,” or “industrial.” He
added that the people who brought the resolution for a hearing to the council live in areas around North Main
Street, Lorimer Street, and South Street. Several of them were members of the college faculty.

EPC Codifies Regulations

At an open meeting for students Wednesday night at 9:30, members of the Educational Policy Committee attempted to explain the
draft of the academic regulations. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan opened the meeting of 10 students and
five faculty members by saying, “The academic regulations are an attempt to pull all academic rules together. There are some
significant changes in this document, and we have tried to incorporate changes which we felt would stand a possibility of
getting through the faculty.” He continued, “There is no reason to put in something which will in all probability be
defeated.”

According to members of the EPC, the faculty was very much in mind. Approximately 35 to 40 different faculty members
attended the three meetings held for their benefit. Students leaving Davidson in good standing will not be allowed automatic readmission,
and members of the EPC said that a place could not be saved for an individual where no revenue was
being received. However, he will be given priority, and the leave of absence category is provided which allows for automatic
readmission. In the future, there will be no charge for drop-add. Although when a course is repeated, only the most
recent grade will count, the computation of grade-point averages and class standings will be the number of grade points divided
by the number of courses taken, including the repeated courses.

There was heated debate at the meeting over a section of the proposed academic regulations which reads in part, “The
candidate for the degree shall be of good character and conduct.” Many felt that this was a sweeping and all-encompassing
statement which should not be included in academic regulations. It was pointed out that matters of student conduct were covered
in the Code (See EPC, Page 2).

This new development, along with the trustees’ reaffirmed stand that “no organization, fraternal or otherwise, be allowed to operate eating
or living facilities off campus,” plunged four fraternities into serious meetings this week to consider future plans. Printable responses to
the indifference of the trustees were all extremely negative. Kappa Alpha number one Sammy Fisher responded, “Thoroughly disgusted, et cetera,
et cetera. The new coercive system is impractical, ill-conceived, and poorly implemented. The trustees have overextended their boundaries, assuming a
responsibility not in their power.” Phi Delta Theta president Woody Montgomery said, “The trustee action is no more than we
expected. We were particularly disappointed with the trustee turnout at the student reception Thursday night. It is obvious that they
really don’t care what the students think.” Phi Gamma Delta spokesman Brian Evans also responded dismally. “They were not receptive
at all to a logical and reasonable argument. They completely ignored the alternative we had to present. Their minds were
made up before we ever talked to them.”

SGA President Danny Clodfelter commented on the action, “I still think that the guys should be given the right to
eat off-campus, but I also think that the fraternities should go together with this college in whatever decisions it makes.
It would be stupid,” he added, “for the fraternities to get into a hassle with the college now. It would
lead to a blow-up or some kind of lawsuit that would hurt both sides.” Clodfelter stated that he did not
envision events ever reaching such an intensity as to demand legal action one way or the other, but he said
that “if the fraternities seek to violate the trustee ruling, I'm sure that the college will take them to court.”

The real bind that the houses are in stems from the prestige of the trustee decision in alumni circles. Support
for the off-campus move, particularly financial support, will diminish while outsiders sit back to see what happens. In meetings this
week many of the fraternities discussed what has come to be known as the “SAE plan,” that is to accept
the Committee of Eighteen report and stay on campus with a national charter. The trick is to pick as many
pledges through self-selection as possible and then to discourage unwanted members who select the house until they leave. Despite a
student resolution to bar social funds from a house which discriminates against unwanted members, Sigma Alpha Epsilon seems to have
pulled through the self-selection process in the last two weeks with few casualties.

One other fear is that the college might institute a comprehensive board fee, which would compel every student to pay
for use of the houses regardless of their connection with Patterson Court, if any.
