Page Ten October 22, 1971

Monday, October 25
2 p.m. Freshman Football: Wake Forest

Tuesday, October 26
3 p.m. Soccer: St. Andrews
10 p.m. Student Senate Meeting

Wednesday, October 27

Thursday, October 28
8:15 p.m. Drama Production: "Taming of the Shrew" Here, Hodson Hall

Friday, October 29
All day Board of Visitors
8 p.m. Drama Production: "Taming of the Shrew" Here, Hodson Hall

Saturday, October 30
11 a.m. Soccer: East Carolina

(Continued From Page 1)

budget of $1,050.00 he should be able to do this. Alexander agrees that some of the functions of the RHC
are unclear, and he believes that this is due in some degree to the interference of Director of Student Housing
Mrs. Peter Nicholls. "She seems to do anything she wants to do. No matter what the RHC decides to do,
she’ll have some say in it."

In 1966 Nicholls was one of the originators of the idea of a Residence Hall Association to which all those
living in the dorms would belong and the Residence Hall Council would be the governing body. Although she recognizes that
the new Conduct Council and dorm managers will infringe on some of the functions traditionally given to the RHC, she
believes that there is a definite place for the RHC.

Nicholls feels that it is unfortunate that the RHC has reached such a low point in such a short period
of time. She said that if Alexander would show stronger leadership, the RHC could become a potent force on campus.

Nicholls criticizes the RHC for failing to live up to its responsibilities. "Last spring the RHC was supposed to write
up regulations about refrigerators in the dorms. Although it proposed that refrigerators not exceed 6 cubic feet, it made so
many exceptions that all types of refrigerators were given carte blanche. The only real restriction was that those refrigerators exceeding
6 cubic feet would have to be inspected by the RHC," she said.

"I have sent two letters to Bill Alexander this fall in regard to the refrigerator registration procedures, and I have
yet to receive a reply from him," Nicholls added. "I am now forced to make arrangements on my own in
regard to the registration of refrigerators."

Senior Class Senator Cecil Burney was the president of the Residence Hall Council until last winter, and he decries the
present state of this organization. "The RHC has the resources and position to plan appealing programs for the whole college
community," said Burney. "Unfortunately, the RHC has not provided any of the social functions which would have been positive."

"I feel Bill Alexander has been selfishly more interested much of the time in trying to keep his select little
group of SPE’s going than he has been in providing activities for the whole campus," he said.

Alexander feels that the RHC has accomplished much since he took office this past winter. "We have effectively combated the
use of firecrackers in the dorms." However, Dean of Students Will H. Terry feels that the firecracker problem was solved
by the student body in general joining together in opposition to the use of firecrackers, and that the RHC’s impact
was minimal.

Other accomplishments Alexander lists are the report on married student housing, the report calling for the housing of coeds in
Duke, and the report calling for the housing of freshmen in Belk. "Reggie Kennedy’s coeducation report asked that coeds be
housed in Duke," Alexander said. "This was proposed by the RHC, and I felt slighted that the RHC got no
credit for the idea. Kennedy’s report pertaining to coeds in Duke was almost verbatim from the RHC report last spring."

In response to Alexander’s charge, Kennedy said, "The SGA coeducation committee did not intentionally copy the RHC’s proposal. The important
issue is not who gets credit but that the best possible housing arrangements are made for the students."

ARA Proposes Food Service At Three Fraternity Houses
By TOM AINSWORTH
Staff Writer

A food service distributed over three fraternity houses next year was proposed by cafeteria manager Ron Scott at a meeting
of the Union food committee last Thursday. Scott recommended that the food service move and expand the existing facilities over
three fraternity houses on Patterson Fraternity Court, two of which have been secured. The central one would be a combination
Snack-Bar and cafeteria, from which all the food would be distributed.Who first proposed the idea, but whether some action is
taken on the idea. The SGA coeducation committee has acted, and the RHC has not,” Kennedy said. And Clodfelter claims
that the RHC, under Alexander, was not the first to propose moving coeds into Duke. He said that a similar
proposal had been brought up in the senate previously. “I hope to see big refrigerators with compartments for individuals for
each hall, and I think that kitchen units for each hall would be appropriate,” he said. “The RHC should help
decide what types of dorms Davidson should have in the future, and the future use of old dorms must be
decided upon,” he said. Alexander foresaw the walls of the present dorms being knocked out to allow for suites. Clodfelter
said, “The RHC, unless radically revised, has no practical future.”

Cooked and then transferred to the other two. The second would be a grill-delicatessen type and the third a family
buffeteria. Scott also proposed the use of a transferable booklet of meal tickets. It would be punched according to the
meal cost, and would last roughly 18 to 24 weeks. Being transferable, it could be used to buy a date’s
meal or be given to a friend. “Everybody we've approached with this plan has been very favorable to it,” said
Scott. “But,” he continued, “there's only one drawback — people don't spend it fast enough.”

In addition, Scott sees doing away with the numerous vending machines, being too costly and time-consuming to maintain. Danny Clodfelter,
student body president, thinks this plan is good on the whole. “The only big problem in it,” he said, “is
that in the thinking of Scott, the three houses would treat an even division of students. But what happens when
there’s an overload at one?”

Two members of the Food Committee, freshmen Len Gillespie and Chip Jones, differ somewhat over the elements involved. “The plan
they presented was good,” said Gillespie. “Buying meals would give more freedom and flexibility to the present system.” But he
is apprehensive as to how the third house will be acquired, since no other houses are presently available. Jones foresees
a disruption of student unity in following this course. “He also believes that a ‘unionless’ college might deter a prospective
student, and says that doing away with vending machines might limit the availability of snacks when the students want them.

Traffic Court Forms To Handle Tickets
By JOHN KEPCHAR
Staff Writer

A traffic court composed of two students and one member of the administration will meet every Tuesday at 10 a.m.
in room 228 Chambers for any students who wish to protest traffic tickets, according to Danny Clodfelter, student body president.
The court will be composed of sophomore senator John Douglas, freshman senator Bob Corlew, and Steve Heckard, executive director of
the Wildcat Club. Many signs have been torn down on campus, and some students may wish to protest a ticket
they received for parking in an area which was not marked, Clodfelter said. Students are responsible for knowing where they
can and cannot park, according to Grover C. Meetze Jr., director of the physical plant. Although some signs may be
missing this does not automatically entitle him to park where he wishes, Meetze said. The court will have power to
dismiss the $2.00 ticket fees which are given for parking in a reserved or prohibited area, exceeding the 20 mph
campus speed limit, or using an unregistered car.

SMC Industries has an exceptional work program designed for college students who want to earn $4.00 per hour working 4
hours, 3 to 5 evenings each week. For details reply: SMC Industries, P. O. Box 507, Morganton, N.C. 28655

We judge ourselves by what we feel capable of doing, while others judge us by what we have already done.
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what “low net cost” really means.
Hal Mapes
Jim Roy
892-1467
892-1424

ROBERT T. STONE
District Agent
