(Staff photo by Erwin)

THE SIGS TOOK SOME PIKA PASSES... Sig Bobby Kelley takes a pass from Pika Ray Swetenburg.

Unbeaten Sigs, Pikas

By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

The Sigs downed the Pikas 16-0 in a battle of unbeatens and the KA’s bounced the SAE’s from the undefeated ranks to highlight intramural flickerball last week. Billy Mohr and Randy Webster scored touchdowns, and Rick Hendrix added a safety on an intercepted kickoff as the Sigs blanked the Pikas Monday. A sticky defense completely muffled the Pika offense, which lost star tailback Blair Abee last Friday.

The Sigs romped past the Nus 46-0 last Thursday, behind Cooper Geraty’s three TDs and two by Dave Russell, and stand 6-0, a game ahead of the Pikas through Tuesday. The Pikas (5-1) outscored the KA’s 44-26 Friday, but Abee’s loss overshadowed the win. Tom Ross tallied thrice and Dave Mehlen twice, while John Brandon scored two for the losers.

The KA’s shocked the SAE’s 34-20 Monday, as sophomore flash Chris Holly romped to four scores. Charlie Terrell added the other touchdown for the victors, who led 20-13 at halftime. Roy Campbell, Dave Weaver, and Earl McCall got the SAE’s on the board.

The SAE’s, now 5-1, had walloped Emanon 31-7 Friday, as Bob Whalen counted twice, after crushing hapless Sentelle II 72-0 last Wednesday. They held a shaky one.

Freshmen Crushed By Baby Paladins

By BILL MORRIS
Staff Writer

“We're not moving the ball, and if we can’t get the ball moving we can’t expect to win football games.” That was the comment of freshman football coach Tom Stevens following Davidson's loss to the Furman freshmen, 35-7, last Friday at Furman. The loss evened the team’s record at one win and one loss.

“Believe it or not, the defense actually played a reasonably good ball game in spite of what the score seems to indicate. Eddie Womack at defensive end, and Ronnie Hamilton at defensive tackle, played particularly well,” Stevens said. “Our offense just couldn't move the ball. We couldn't get a ground game going,” he added. “We fumbled the ball away something like three or four times during the game, and three of those were within our five-yard line.”

OPENS TRY-OUTS

The Davidson wrestling team will begin try-outs for their 1971 season next Monday. Anyone interested in trying out for the team should see Coach Charles Parker or contact Rob Benton. Equipment can be drawn by anyone interested in wrestling at 4 p.m. on Monday.

“They got three scores off of those, and it was 28-0 before we even scored. They led at half 28-7 and we had to gamble to try and catch up and we couldn't do it,” he commented.

“We should be pretty well off offensively. We have some excellent individual players, but we can’t get everything together. It's a matter of execution,” Stevens said. “We spend most of our time in practice running the offensive plays the varsity will face in their game, and there is little time to get our own execution of plays down.

“The same applies to our passing game. We have good receivers in Gary Pomeroy and tight end Lin Potts, but we haven't been able to get the ball to them. Our main purpose is to acquaint the freshmen with the varsity offensive and defensive system, and to work on the fundamentals. There isn’t much time to spend perfecting the execution,” Stevens stated.

Looking ahead, the next freshman game is against the Duke University freshmen. Game time here in Davidson will be 2 p.m. The Duke freshmen have beaten Wake Forest and lost to Clemson and the Kittens face a tough battle as they reach the midway point in their schedule.

“We're facing a good Duke team. We've got to get our offense moving. We need guys who will hit and move the other team out. In practice this week we've been looking a little better. I hope we do as well Friday,” Stevens stated.game lead over the Indies thru Tuesday, with the KA’s at 4-3. The Indies won by forfeit over Sentelle I to remain a game ahead of the KA’s in the battle for playoff berths (only top two teams in each division qualify). The seemingly unbeatable Delts (now 51-2 over the last five years) mercilessly pounded Cannon I 81-6 last Wednesday as everyone but the housemother hit paydirt. Emanon II wisely decided to forfeit on Friday, but on Wednesday the Betas led 6-0 at halftime before bowing 18-12 in a near-shocker. Cannon I was unable to recover from the Delt assault and forfeited to the Taus the next day, dropping them to 4-3, only a half-game ahead of the Betas and Taus, both 3-3. The Taus' only “action” was the forfeit win over Cannon I.

The Davidsonian
October 15, 1971
Page Nine

Harriers Take Two In Campbell Meet
By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

When the Davidson cross-country team wins, it wins in a big way. Coach Sterling Martin’s harriers chalked up not one, but two victories Wednesday, and things are definitely looking up for the Wildcats. According to Martin, his runners did a “tremendous job” in beating Campbell College and St. Andrews in a tri-meet at Buies Creek. “This performance will put the boys in a much better condition, mentally, to go against Washington and Lee and VMI next week,” said Martin. The dual victory came on the heels of a loss to Wake Forest here Monday, and evened the harriers’ record at two wins and two losses. The ‘Cats placed nine men ahead of Campbell's fifth man and eight runners ahead of St. Andrew’s first finisher to win 22-40 against Campbell and 15-50 over St. Andrews.

The race was won by Campbell’s Dan Merritt, who had a time of 27:16 for the 5.1-mile course, but Davidson runners took the next four places. Freshman Rick Bell finished second, sixteen seconds behind the winner. He was followed by Joe Shibley, Paul Mitchell, and Howard Boyd, in that order. Ricky Deal finished eighth, to round out the Wildcat top five. “The boys did a really fine job,” said Martin, who had some praise for nearly all his runners. “Ricky Bell is a very strong runner for us, and is our number one man. Paul Mitchell is a steady runner, and he is going to be one of our top men. Ricky Deal is much improved, and is in the top five for us, as he ought to be. Howard Boyd, who's been having some problems, finally came into his own, and he scored for us like he should,” said Martin.

Martin also had some good things to say about the ‘Cats loss to Wake Forest here Monday. “I was pleased with our individual results, even though we didn't win,” he said. “Everybody’s times improved tremendously, and the exchange of just a couple of places made the difference against Wake.” The Davidson squad lost to the Deacons 24-35, with Rick Bell finishing second, Joe Shibley fourth, Paul Mitchell sixth, Ron Clark eleventh, and Rick Mullen rounding out the Wildcat scorers. “They ran a good race against Wake Forest, and they went out to win the race,” said Martin.

(Staff photo by Erwin)
... AND WENT AFTER THEIR OWN
Frank Clark breaks into the open for a long bomb.