Friday, November 5
1:30 p.m. Freshman Football: Citadel Here
8:30 p.m. Hungry I: John and Patterson Court
9:45 p.m. Hungry II: John and Patterson Court

Saturday, November 6
8:30 p.m. Hungry I: John and Patterson Court
9:45 p.m. Hungry II: John and Patterson Court

Tuesday, November 9
8 p.m. Fine Films: "Beggar's Opera"
10 p.m. Student Senate Meeting, Love Auditorium

Saturday, November 12
1:30 p.m. Football: Richmond Here

News Hazards
If someone in your neighborhood is watching the evening news, he could be potentially hazardous to your health. Leonard Berkowitz, presidential commission member and chairman of the psychology department at the University of Wisconsin, proposed this thesis in an address Tuesday. Berkowitz pointed to FBI data which showed a marked relationship between a rise in serious crime and publicized incidents like the Speck and Whitman murders, the Detroit riots, and the assassinations of John Kennedy and Martin Luther King.

“Aggressive behavior may be impulsive,” said Berkowitz. “The observed event has particular, aggressive meaning to the observer. Internal aggressive reactions can stimulate other aggressive behavior.” The probability that an individual will respond to publicized violence with aggressive behavior is very small, but with the size of our population, this still presents a problem. “What we finally do depends on our values, not our social sciences.”

Lack Of Regulations Causes Campus Security Problems
AN ANALYSIS By BILL GIDUZ Staff Writer

One of the problems that has arisen in the past few years as a result of Davidson's increasing contact with the outside world and relaxation of rules is one of campus security. Dean of Students Will Terry remarked that the crime rate on campus has risen markedly during the past two years. “There are more outsiders on campus. We have a lot of local kids in the dormitories who have no business being there.”

The problem of outsiders on campus was echoed by Grover Meetze, director of campus security. Meetze cited the fact that the campus is becoming better known through its general openness and special group visits such as summer camps. Most of the people caught for theft are not members of the college, but Meetze pointed out that students can steal small items and money more easily than can non-students because they are not conspicuous in the dorms.

Faculty Veto (Continued from Page 1)
Dedication which leads faculty members to demand of themselves their highest levels of excellence, the fundamental...

EPC Contacts Colleges For Data On Coeducation
Despite students' belief to the contrary, the college, in its own hesitant manner, is doing something about coeducation. The Educational Policy Committee's (EPC) coeducation subcommittee is presently contacting colleges comparable to Davidson which have recently gone coed.

Headed by Associate Professor of History William B. Patterson, the EPC subcommittee on coeducation has already done a substantial amount of work. It has recently met with the Student Government Association (SGA) committee on coeducation, and the EPC coeducation committee has been favorably impressed by some of the recommendations of the SGA committee.

The SGA committee on coeducation is pushing for the adoption of a plan that would allow Davidson to accept women for the next academic year. Patterson, though sympathetic to this view, feels that next fall is an unfeasible date for the introduction of coeducation. However, Patterson does feel that coeducation could be practical in two years.

The EPC is not studying the philosophical reasons for or against coeducation, since this has been done in the past. Rather, it is trying to find out the technical details confronting a college going coed. The coeducation subcommittee is presently in contact with about ten colleges which have recently gone coed to discover some of the problems these schools have been faced with.

In conjunction with the alumni office, it is sending out a questionnaire about coeducation to the alumni. In addition, the coeducation subcommittee is planning to poll the faculty and student body about certain aspects of Davidson becoming coeducational. If it were not for these questionnaires, Patterson feels that the EPC coeducation subcommittee could make a report on the feasibility of coeducation to the EPC by the end of this term. In any event, Patterson feels that...his subcommittee will be making a report to the EPC in the very near future. The members of the EPC subcommittee on coeducation are agreed that Davidson should go coeducational, but it is still unclear to them when and how this should be done. Purposes and goals of an educational institution will remain unrealized. Brinkley listed 12 instances since 1965 which he said composed a history of the trustees “replete with instances of disrespect for the professional academician, of contempt for faculty judgment, and of distrust of faculty loyalties and motivations.”

In a series of recommendations, Brinkley asked that all work on the Governance Committee as well as work on other committees which have faculty members be suspended until the faculty and trustees attempt to solve the problem of confidence in the faculty. No faculty action was taken on Brinkley’s proposals, and faculty sources remain uncertain on just how much support these proposals have in the faculty as a body. The faculty will continue their debate on the governance issue when Spencer returns later this month.

Earn at home addressing envelopes. Rush stamped, self-addressed envelope. P. J. MYERS Rt. 1, Box 400 Summerville, S. C. 29483

The present three-man (one per eight-hour shift) security force serves almost strictly as a watchman agency rather than as a true law enforcement group. Security officers have been given direct orders by Meetze not to enter the dorm rooms on campus, and he further pointed out that the only reason officers enter the dorms at all is to wind fire alarm clocks. Checking on suspicious characters, answering complaints, and patrolling the grounds are the main duties of the Davidson security officers.

Meetze explained the philosophy of the security department. “We’ve started out here on a very low-key type security force and we'll develop it as trends make it necessary, but we don’t want to move too fast.” It is evident that most Davidson students seem happy with the present security force, and would rather not see it highly expanded. At the same time, though, outside and inside influences could force that expansion and the security force would then be faced with the problem of becoming too much of an enforcement agency. It appears that a thin line needs to be drawn to simultaneously cope with rising crime and too much law enforcement, which many times follows the former.

Terry outlined his thoughts on what is needed. “We need a better trained security force to handle emergencies... and one which has better rapport with students. We need a man in charge of security who has a desire to get along with students. He also has to be able to supervise other men.” Terry expressed his opinion that a couple of more full-time men are needed to cut out the need for Burns Security Force men and to concentrate on specific areas of the campus.

Is the campus really protectible with the type of security force that is desired? Meetze feels that because of the very size of the campus, an extra man on duty would probably not substantially cut down on burglary. The fraternity court is an especially vulnerable area. For convenience purposes, most fraternities remain unlocked at night, and until recently this has not presented any problems. During the past few months, however, at least two stereo turntables have been taken from houses on the court. Even though just one more man may not do much good, it appears that a much stronger, much larger security system could cut down on campus thievery. However, all parties involved are opposed to this idea. “We would rather take it easy than have to become a full-fledged police force,” said Meetze.

Budget-wise, a larger force is quite feasible, and, according to Terry, more money will be allocated to the force next year. Ultimately, the students will decide the type of campus security. To avoid a real police force on campus, students will have to play a more active role in preventing campus crime. Students should lock their cars and report strangers and strange activity in the dorms.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS'S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

The Coffee Cup
DEPOT ST.
6 a.m. - 7 p.m.
Breakfast served until 11:00 a.m.
Seafood—Sandwiches
Home-cooked vegetables

Cashion's Food Mart
Open 8:00 A.M. - 9:00 P.M.
Monday - Saturday
Special Case Prices on Beer