Vol LX, No. Sixteen Published Weekly By Davidson College Students - Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 February 12, 1971

Alexander Wins In New Election

By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

In an unprecedented second election for SGA vice-president, Bill Alexander pulled a slim majority to defeat Bob Edmunds after losing to his opponent by only 8 votes in the first round.

The new election is a first in recent campus elections and came in response to a student petition questioning “election procedure irregularities” at the polls two weeks ago. Alexander won this time, capturing 54% of the ballots and leading Edmunds by a margin of 51 votes.

“I’m glad I won,” Alexander said. “The election was run very well; it was tight, but I don't see how anyone could have any complaints. I hope future elections will be of the same calibre.”

As president of the Residence Hall Council (RHC), Alexander wants to keep the organization “a separate entity from the SGA for the time being because the president of the senate would have too much power.” He believes that dividing the power in the senate is a good idea now and that the RHC can work efficiently. He pointed to the work of former SGA vice-president Cecil Burney, who raised over $1500 for the RHC last year.

Alexander added, “I want the representatives in each individual dorm to be able to take care of the problem there. If they have trouble with anything, then the RHC can take on the matter, and if we can’t handle it, then we'll go to the senate.”

Alexander thinks there is a possibility that the trustees may change their minds on the fraternity situation, and he wants to work to make the court into a coexistent structure with national fraternities and eating clubs. “If the trustees don't change their position, I want to do the most I can to eliminate the coerciveness of this system so that it will not hurt anyone that does not participate, especially in terms of money.”

Among other things, Alexander favors the council proposed by SGA President Danny Clodfelter, optional final exams, and the withdrawal of the SGA from the National Student Association (NSA). On the NSA, Alexander said: “Their name and what they stand for would be detrimental to Davidson College, and we can obtain any service it offers without being in it. This organization has acquired a debt of $400,000, and there is nothing in their constitution which says that our college does not have to incur part of that debt.”

In the senatorial elections, the following were elected: Class of '72, Cecil Burney, Mark Meza, and Bill Lear (president); Class of '73, Doug Sittler, Ralph Peeples, and Mike Creasman (president); Class of '74, Calvin Allen, Doug Brown, and Bill Ralston (president). David Jones won the election for Defense Advisor.

Elections this year showed a general upsurge of political activity from the student body.

(Staff Photo by Doty)

YET ONCE MORE
Student vote Tuesday under new election procedures.

Coed Hopes Dim For Coming Years

According to College President Samuel R. Spencer, there is little chance that Davidson will institute co-education on a large scale in the near future. In a recent interview, Spencer said that the proposal concerning co-education, which was approved last year by the college trustees, “is in a wait-and-see period.”

“With the economic downturn, all colleges have become more cautious about decisions involving a large capital investment,” Spencer explained. “People are feeling economically uneasy,” making any consideration for immediate co-education on a large scale unrealistic.

The proposal approved by the trustees last year stated that “the trustees will consider admission of women students as degree candidates at such time as this is judged by the Board to be economically and educationally feasible.” According to Spencer, most trustees felt that this was an approval in principle of co-education.

(See COEDS, p. 10)

Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer speaks about the new social system in an exclusive interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN on page 12. Dr. William Davis reviews Jimmy Trussell’s “The Loving Book” on page 3.Davidson's own silent majority. Around 700 votes were cast on first ballots both weeks, and more than 300 students turned out for the run-offs, which is the usual number for the first ballot in past elections. Candidates for the offices also swelled in number compared to previous years. In the senatorial race alone the least number of contenders in any class was eleven. A real possibility existed that there would have to be two run-off elections. Although a variety of issues stirred opinion during the election, voters seemed to choose the winner regardless of positions one way or the other on the fraternity question or campus governance.

Friday, February 12
8 p.m. Concert: 
10 p.m. Movie: "Charly"
10:30 p.m. Singer: Fontilla P

Saturday, February 13
10 p.m. Movie: "Charly"
3 a.m. Breakfast

POSTER
Where It’s At
New York Rock Ensemble
1 p.m. Concert: Mara Loves
11 a.m. Pancake Eating Contest
8:30 p.m. Concert: Goose Creek Symphony
10:30 p.m. Singer: Fontilla
1 a.m. Concert: Mara Loves

WDAV gave added coverage to the elections this year, interviewing candidates and conducting polls. Another innovation was an extra voting booth which was placed in the post office to increase the balloting.

Love Auditorium
Morrison Room
Union Bar
Morrison Room
Chambers Basement
Love Auditorium
Morrison Room
Union Bar
Morrison Room
Union Cafeteria

Open Dorms
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Assistant Managing Editor

In its final action under outgoing Chairman Cecil J. Burney, the Residence Hall Council has voted to declare the dorms at Davidson open 24 hours a day to guests of Davidson students. The action was agreed upon last year, but there has been no announcement until now to allow the RHC time to see how open dorms worked unofficially. Incoming freshmen were told by hall counselors that the dorms were as "good as open," so the action probably surprises very few. This is the first time the RHC has gone on record as declaring open dorms at all times. In the past, the council has favored action to allow totally open dorms, but never has it openly declared that cases of overnight female visitors in rooms will not be prosecuted.

When asked if he expected any repercussions from the decision, Burney had no comment, but he did say that what has been done is what the RHC considers best for the situation. "We've removed hypocrisy and have begun to be more honest and realistic about the situation," Burney told THE DAVIDSONIAN.

When contacted by THE DAVIDSONIAN, Dean of Students Will Terry said he felt the Student Life Committee would have to be responsible for prosecution of cases of dorm hour violations. "I’m always disappointed when students are unwilling to assume this kind of responsibility for the conduct of their own affairs. It makes it doubly difficult when the Dean of Students has no desire to be a policeman," Terry told THE DAVIDSONIAN. "As far as I interpret it, the hours remain in force."

In other action at its meeting last Thursday, the RHC approved a grant of about $100 for the distribution next fall of a "survival kit" on alcohol, drugs, and sex to all students, and spent $360 for a color TV for Richardson Dorm to replace the black and white TV now in that dorm. The RHC also allotted $67.50 to sponsor a film with the Political Science department in an effort to show (See RHC p. 2)