Page Two October 1, 1971 The Davidsonian

New Course In Reading Dynamics Offered In College

By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor

A course in reading dynamics, popularly known as speed reading, will be offered again on the Davidson campus as soon
as students can be organized, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs. An event to promote speed reading will be
held today in Thomas Perkins Auditorium at 10:00 a.m. Bevan said, “Reading is a priority; it can be improved. Appreciation
and attitude in learning will be influenced markedly. When a student walks into a library without worrying about how thick
a book is, the whole perspective on education takes on new meaning.”

This week Bevan had letters sent out to all Freshmen parents to solicit financial support for students interested in taking
the course. It will be conducted by the Wood Reading Dynamics Center, an accredited group which boasts over 500,000 graduates
internationally. The reading program was first introduced last fall when the newly-formed Honors College enlisted some members interested in taking
the course. Faculty and students outside the Honors College also joined the program, which was offered at a cost of
$100 with the college covering a balance of about $25 per person.

The course included an eight-week period, with a 2.5-hour class each week and an hour of practice with drills each
day in between. The practice sessions utilized reading materials from the texts that the students were then using in their
courses. The present program will be headed by Wiley Wilkins, a reading dynamics representative in the Charlotte area who taught
the program here last year. Bevan commented that he hoped to enroll two sections of 25 students each, along with
faculty who might be interested. The cost is presently much less. As soon as this is organized, classes will start
around October 11-13.

AN ANALYSIS By ROBERT TOUCHTON Asst. Managing Editor

Davidson's new Physical Education program, which stresses proficiency over class attendance, offers something for almost everyone but the chronic tiddly-winks
player. Almost every student should be able to pass at least one of the proficiency tests if he is skilled
to any degree in a favorite sport. But those who came to Davidson only for its vaunted academics may be
surprised when their diploma is withheld because they can’t bowl 150 or score 90 at Westport.

Rather than attending 75 percent of their gym classes in tennis or volleyball for their first two years, students must
now show their proficiency in one team sport and four individual or dual sports through written and practical tests. And
some of those tests aren’t easy. Either Davidson has very few sailors or the sailing test frightens away prospective candidates—only
six students signed up to try the blue waters of Lake Norman in a Davidson sailboat. Other sports vary greatly
in their relative difficulty. The waterskiing test requires only that the student get into the water from the boat, get
up on the first try (supposedly, the boat driver won't try to spill a testee), cross the wake “several times”
(whatever that could mean), ski continuously for ten minutes, give the proper hand signals, follow all safety precautions, and get
back in the boat after his ten minutes of skiing.

To get canoeing credit, a canoeist must demonstrate his ability.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors: BOBBY ALLEN, CECIL BURNEY, TODD HORBBIE
Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD WILSON
News Editor: DAVID HANIG
Sports Editor: JOE EARLE
Photography Editor: JOHN DAVIDSON
Assistant Managing Editors: DOUG BROWN, ROBERT TOUCHTON, ALEC HOON
Copy Editors: BOBBIE BLACKWOOD, JAMES HANNA
Contributors This Week: Bruce Ainsworth, David Arant, Tom Campbell, John Kepchar, Bill Thomas, Morris Turner
Advertising Manager: WHIT WHITWORTH
Assistant Copy Editor: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Sports Editor: W. TURNER
Cartoonists: J. B. FAWCETT, TERRY HIRST, ZACK MOBLEY
Circulation Managers: HOWARD RAMAGLI, STEVE SHEPHERD, GREG MITCHELL
Photographers: BILL BARNES, FRANK ERWIN, PAUL HORWITZ

Published weekly at Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Address all correspondence
to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036.

CANOE TECHNIQUE

Student Jack White and Jerry Huller demonstrate their proficiency for the P.E. test. And The Tests Aren't Easy!to use the
bow stroke, the diagonal draw, the push-over, the reverse sweep stroke, the one-fourth sweep stroke, and the stop stroke—all apparently
fancy names for the regular stroke, the ‘J’ stroke, the draw stroke, and backwater both alone and with a partner.
Many who have done considerable white-water river canoeing find lake canoeing most boring and a poor teacher for the “real
thing” on a Class 3 or 4 river rapid. Credit is offered in fencing, first aid, gymnastics, handball, intermediate swimming,
weightlifting, water safety instructor, tennis, snowskiing, senior life saving, scuba diving, sailing, canoeing, and bowling as individual or dual sports.
Flickerball, soccer, softball, and volleyball will fulfill team sport requirements. Passage of a written test is required for credit in
each case. Two credits will be given in swimming (for WSI and senior life saving, for instance) but there will
be no repetition in other areas. Regular classes are offered for those who feel they need practice or some instruction
in preparation for a test, but the proficiency test will still have to be passed before any credit is given.
The 10:00 a.m. (Chapel Period) hour has been the most popular for classes, but the department also offers classes at
noon and at night. Dr. Tom Scott, Director of Athletics, agreed that “most should be able to pass some of
those proficiency tests. We didn’t want to make them too hard or too easy. I think the boys will like
it,” confided Scott. “Our main interest is to give the kids carry-over sports they can use when they get out
of school.” He promised that new activities “will be added as their popularity increases. Bicycle riding, which has gained a
wide following in recent months, was considered as an additional sport, and it may be added later,” Scott said. Waterskiing
has proved to be the most popular sport thus far, with 120 students signing up to test their skiing ability.
No one who has taken the test has flunked it as of Tuesday, according to Scott. Intermediate swimming, “one we’d
like everyone to take,” said Scott, attracted 100 potential swimmers. Tennis has 85 signees; weightlifting, 82. The new Phys Ed
program makes it easier for the typical Davidson “jock,” even though his intercollegiate athletics will yield him only one credit,
to get his diploma. But the armchair quarterback or that tiddly-winks player might have a hard time. After all, ping-pong
and billiards are not even offered. But what 40-year-old Davidson grad, balding and paunchy, prefers those to soccer or flickerball?

Better Computer System Possible
By DAVID ARANT
Staff Writer

Officials in the Davidson computer center indicate that the college is now considering expansion of their facilities along the lines
of a terminal system. Jerry A. Roberts, chairman of the computer center, reports that the college is now looking into
the possibility of having a terminal system on campus which would link the computer to various classrooms on campus. The
National Cash Register Company demonstrated a terminal system September 14 in Chambers Building which reportedly impressed major college officials. Citing
the advantage of the terminal system, Roberts explained computer outlets located throughout the school would make the computer system more
accessible. By placing the terminal in the chemistry or physics laboratory, the student could have immediate use of the computer's
services in making calculations. Roberts says another advantage of the terminal system is that it could be hooked up to
a computer center such as the Research Triangle in Wake County which would provide access to a large number of
programs in this computer center. “The time will come when we will have terminals,” Roberts said. Until that time, the
college will continue use of the Century Computer in the basement of Chambers Building which is available for the use
of the students and faculty afternoons and evenings each weekday. Kenneth R. Carmack, head of the Data Processing Services, says
that assistance in operation is available in both the afternoon and evening. When asked about the types of problems the
computer handles, Roberts said, “Our only limit is in our ability to analyze the problem, so that the machine can
follow it.” To show the variety of systems the computer can handle, Roberts said he is now programming the computer
to respond with the time of sunrise and sunset of any day of the year when the latitude and longitude
of the location is fed in.
