AND AHEAD BY HALF A LENGTH (Staff photo by Manley) Alec Hoon takes off from the block in the V.M.I.
meet.

Sigs, Pikas Maintain Lead As IMAC Tourney Opens
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

The IMAC basketball regular season drew to a close during the past week, and the action was heavy as teams
battled for positions in post-season playoffs. The unbeaten Sigs and Pikas kept rolling along as both squads completed 10-0 seasons.

Monday night the Sigs were hard pressed by the Indies but emerged victorious 58-52. The outcome was not decided until
the closing minutes, as the lead changed hands several times. Tuesday night the Pikas secured their hold on the League
B championship by demolishing the Gamms 80-35. Dennis Watson tallied 30 points to pace the rout, aided by Peter Spink’s
16, Dave Stimpson's 13, and 11 from Gary Scibal.

Last Thursday's action saw the Delts ease into the second slot in League B by trouncing Cannon II 70-50. Mike
Deese led the way for the winners with 20 markers, followed by Hamp Whittington with 11 and Bob Lewis with
10. In another League B contest, the Machis squeaked by Watts-Belk 64-58. John Saunders blazed the nets for 30 points
to lead the Machis, aided by Howard Boyd's 14 and Herb Clegg with 13.

The upset of the week occurred when the KA’s nipped East II 68-67 in a three-overtime struggle. A basket by
Daryl Williams gave the KA's the win with two seconds remaining. Leading the scoring for the winners was Charlie Terrell
with 22 points. Williams added 16 and Jim Roy provided 12 more.

League A was active last Thursday also, as the shooting of Loren Clay led East I over the Betas to
the tune of 84-69. Clay fired in 29 markers for the winners, aided by Tom McKenzie's 16 and Jim McNair's
15. The SAE’s received balanced scoring in blasting the Pi Kapps 60-39. Bruce Baird and David Weaver hit for 12
apiece, and Bob Meadows and Dave Faison each added 10.

In a battle for second place in League A, Cannon I defeated the SPE’s 61-50. Steve Gates paced the victors
with 18 markers, while Larry Ruddell and Rocky Banester were close behind with 14 and 13, respectively. Monday night Watts-Belk
came from behind at the half to defeat the ATO’s 54-47. Bill McIlwain and Dave Duggins were top guns for
the winners with 17 and 12 points, respectively. Jim Montgomery led the Taus with 16 while Mort Chiles chipped in
13.

The Betas eliminated the Machis from further competition by an 83-50 shellacking. Randy Ely was the top gun for the
victors with 28 points, while Jack Latimer and Adam Robinson shared top honors for the Machis with 14 apiece.

Future tournament pairings find the Gamms tangling with the Indie-SAE winner, and East I battling the winner of the Beta-Watts-Belk
contest. The SPE’s meet the Delts in what promises to be a close affair, and Cannon II faces East II
in a duel of freshman teams. The Sigs and the Pikas received first-round byes as champs of their respective leagues.

The Davidsonian
February 19, 1971
Page Seven

Swimmers Lose Three At Home
By STEVE BENNETTSports Writer

The Davidson College tankmen have yet to win a meet in their home pool. In their first three outings in
the Johnston Gym pool, the 'Cats lost to VMI, William & Mary, and Appalachian State University. The 'Cats now stand
3-4 in the season.

After an 11-day rest following a loss to Emory University in Atlanta, Coach Steven's charges went down before the Keydets
from VMI, 73-40. The following day, the 'Cats met an exceptionally strong team from William and Mary and were beaten,
80-33. In that February 12 meeting, two pool records were set. Ackerman from William and Mary set a new pool
time of 5:18.9 in the 500-yard Freestyle. Wildcat Captain Jim Newton set new school and pool records with his 49.5
time in the 100-yard Freestyle, knocking 0.25 off the old record.

Tuesday's contest between Davidson and Appalachian was one of the closer meets of the year for the 'Cats. Although they
lost 64-49, the 'Cats put up a strong challenge to the powerful Appalachian team and were not out of the
meet until the final moments. The 'Cats took a total of 6 first places in comparison to the 5 won
by Appalachian. Davidson fell behind when they failed to capture a sufficient number of seconds and thirds. At one time,
the 'Cats were only 3 points from Appalachian.

The 'Cats have been plagued by a lack of experience this year. Ten of the 21 team members are freshmen.
The 'Cats have only one regular season meet remaining. Tomorrow they face the Tigers of Clemson University in the Johnston
Gym Pool. The Southern Conference Championships will be held in Williamsburg, Virginia, March 4-6. Captain Jim Newton is expected to
be the only 'Cat swimmer to break into the top three in his events in the SC tournament.

WORLD CAMPUS AFLOAT

It can be now, with the former QUEEN ELIZABETH providing more accommodations and lower rates. Scholarships and financial aid available.
The unforgettable, enormously enriching experience of a semester at sea is now within the range of most college students. Minimum
costs have been reduced as much as $725 (from $3575 down to $2850, which includes round-the-world passage, meals, air-conditioned accommodations,
and full tuition). A student can attend World Campus Afloat for a semester and still receive credit for the work
back at his home campus.

The ship is your classroom, and the world is your laboratory... drop anchor in the most exciting ports of Africa,
Asia, and Latin America, listen to a lecture on the steps of the Taj Mahal, skin-dive off the coast of
New Zealand. Send the coupon today for information and application forms for the fall semester 1971 or subsequent voyages.

MAIL TODAY TO CHAPMAN COLLEGE, Box CC15, Orange, California 92666

(PLEASE PRINT)
Mr. / Ms.
Last First Initial
Permanent Address
Street Home Phone
City State Zip
Address At School
Street Campus Phone
City State Zip
School Year in School
Interested: ( ) Fall 19___ ( ) January 19___ ( ) Spring 19___ ( ) Summer 19___
