*{ bors we ¥ S2MBELICR 2D She Page Nine October 8, 1971 Mountaineers Defeat Wildcats

AN ANALYSIS
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

When Jim Brakefield came to Appalachian State University as head football coach, his first plan was to move flanker Clayton
Deskins to running back. Brakefield knew what he was doing. Although Deskins carried the ball only eight times during the
Apps’ 35-10 victory over the Wildcats last Saturday, he was a thorn in the 'Cats' paws all afternoon and Coach
Dave Fagg was unable to find a mouse to remove him.

LEAPFROG
Deskins, who sent the Mountaineer fans into hysterics whenever he touched the ball, rambled for 66 yards, including two touchdowns.
The speedy senior also threw a 45-yard pass to end Richard Agle for a score on a play which caught
the Wildcat defense off guard.

(Staff photo by Campbell) Rick Kemmerlin rolls out for a pass behind strong blocking in the Appalachian game.

'Cats Finish Fall Baseball
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcat baseball team finished their season yesterday afternoon with a game at Belmont-Abbey. This may sound unusual in
the first week of October, but the team did indeed finish its fall season yesterday.

The fall season is designed to allow coaches to see how well their new crop of players, both freshmen and
sophomores who saw little action in the previous season, play, and to allow veterans to begin to get back into
the swing of the game. Davidson’s fall season consists of four games, two each with Pfeiffer and Belmont-Abbey.

The 'Cats did not fare especially well in the win-loss figures, winning only one game prior to yesterday's contest, but
Coach Tom Stevens was not perturbed. “You don’t really play baseball in the off-season expecting to win,” he said, “the
season is set up so inexperienced players can get some game experience and the team can try out new strategy.”

Other schools, he indicated, may not agree with this interpretation of the fall season. The Davidson team that played these
four games differs greatly from the team that will take the field in the spring. Most of the varsity players
that will be returning to the team in the spring do not play in the fall. Jack Lattimer is recovering
from a knee injury from last year. Harold Wilkerson, leading home run hitter for last year’s Wildcats, is playing football,
and Rick Pipan and Bill Barnhill did not participate in the fall season either.

“Most of the upperclassmen schedule their rough courses in the fall so they will have more freedom in the spring,”
Stevens said, “and, besides, I know how well they can play.” Stevens said that game strategy can also be very

Freshmen Improve In Western Meet
By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

The Davidson cross-country team suffered its first dual-meet defeat of the season Monday, when the harriers of Coach Sterling Martin
were outrun by Western Carolina. Western, which last year placed eleven men ahead of Davidson’s first man, this time put
only five runners in front of the number one Wildcat, freshman Ricky Bell, for a perfect score of fifteen to
Davidson’s forty-seven.

Bell finished the five-mile race in twenty-nine minutes and one-half second, one minute and forty-one seconds behind the winners, Terry
Helms and Ben Bailey. “I was really pleased with Ricky’s race,” said Martin, “He should come on strong for us
now.” Bell had run a poor race two weekends ago in Stone Mountain, Ga. due to cramps suffered during the
race.

Following Bell for the ’Cats were freshman surprise Paul Mitchell in 29:50, team captain Howard Boyd in 30:39, Joe Shibley
in 30:58, and another surprise, freshman Bob Lautensack, who was timed in 31:01.

The Wildcats’ next meet will be Monday, when they will run against Wake Forest here. “The Wake Forest meet will
be a good one for us,” said Martin. “They have a good team, but if we run well and have
some respectable times, we have an even chance of beating them.”different in the off-season contests. “We can often run through
five or six pitchers in a game,” he said, “just to see how they play.” Stevens was excited about several
of the freshmen that have come out for the team, particularly Mark Riseman, a catcher, and Bill Todd. He said
both are good hitters. He also complimented the playing of Bobby Clayton, a second baseman. “A couple of freshman pitchers
might develop, too,” he said, “but now they need a lot of work.”

Defenders expecting a run, as Aglc was considerably behind his closest man. Deskins was not the only offensive star for
the Mountaineers. In last week’s pre-game story, we noted that Apps quarterback Steve Loflin was not a feared runner. Steve
Loflin is a feared runner. While the 'Cats line was preoccupied with Deskins, Loflin executed the triple option plays beautifully
and gained 51 yards on 18 rushes. Had his passing been more on target, the score might have been worse.
Loflin overthrew several wide-open receivers.

It seemed that whenever Loflin stuck the ball into the belly of halfback Mike Horton, the ‘Cat defense did not
know who would emerge with the ball. Horton shared the brunt of the Apps running load, lugging the ball 15
times for 96 yards. We also pointed out that the Mounties defense had a questionable secondary. The Mounties no longer
have a questionable secondary. Cornerback Roger Hinshaw proved to be the ringleader of the Apps pass defense as he intercepted
two passes and broke up several others. The excellent coverage of the secondary was complemented by a fierce pass rush,
led by ends Eddie Biggs and Steve Chapman. On many occasions Wildcat quarterbacks Rick Kemmerlin and Scotty Shipp were forced
to unload their passes too quickly, or to hold the ball and suffer a loss.

The 'Cat offense sputtered in the opening quarter, but took advantage of two breaks to register their ten points in
the second stanza. Defensive end Jim Purcell recovered a fumbled pitchout at the Mounties’ 25, and the ’Cats moved in
from there. Johnny Ribet cracked over from the two for the ‘Cats touchdown. Things went right for the ‘Cats on
the ensuing kickoff as John Barbee recovered an onside kick at the Apps 49. A fumble gave the ball back
to the Mounties, who proceeded to give it back to the ‘Cats as Steve Fleming blocked a punt which was
recovered at the Apps 34. Shipp passed to Randy Parker for fifteen yards and following a loss and an incompletion,
he connected with Ribet for 15 more. From there Harold Wilkerson split the uprights and the ‘Cats trailed 21-10.

After a halftime which saw two marching bands, a chorus line, a Highland fling, and cheers by the many Boy
Scouts, the third quarter began. Deskins boosted the Apps margins to 28-10 with a one-yard sweep around right end, and
the ’Cats began an ill-fated march toward the goal. A penalty put the ball on the Apps 30, and Shipp
passed to Parker for eleven yards. Shipp's next throw was incomplete, but pass interference gave the ’Cats a golden opportunity
at the once. Two runs by Bill Bracken, one by Ribet and an incomplete pass failed to push the ball
over, and chances of a comeback were thwarted. Ribet was shaken up in that series, and his replacement John Webel
scooted for 51 yards in only four carries. Another sophomore, Dave Ingold, was a forlorn figure as he attempted to
return punts for the ‘Cats. The Mounties linemen who frequently stormed in on him must have thought he was a
revenuer who had discovered their moonshine still deep in the Watauga County hills.

This Is A Cordial Invitation For All Davidson College To Visit Us
Gifts & Cards For All Occasions
Complete Candy Dept.
Personalized Stationery, Matches and Napkins
Quick Service
Fanny Farmer Candies

Use this valuable coupon
One Per Customer

DONNA’S GIFT SHOP
182 N. Main St.
Mooresville

10% Discount On Purchases Over $3.00
Expires Oct. 25, 1971

DONNA’S GIFT SHOP
