Parents To Join Sons For Fall Orientation

Freshman Orientation will acquire new dimensions this fall as freshmen parents, in addition to their sons, participate in various orientation activities. “This is a new experiment we're trying this year,” said Dean of Students Will H. Terry. “Not only do we hope to orient the freshmen to Davidson College, but we also hope to orient the parents.”

Saturday morning, Sept. 4, freshmen will get their first taste of Davidson as they make the 20 or so trips up the endless flights of stairs and settle in their rooms. At 3 p.m. the students will take the language examination while their parents will hear a discussion of the cost of education led by Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell. Then at 4:30 p.m. a reception will be held on the president's lawn for freshmen and their parents, after which there will be a picnic on the front campus. The president will deliver his welcoming address at 7:30 p.m., which will be followed by a panel discussion composed of faculty and students who will discuss what to expect from a college education. At 9 p.m. the freshmen will have hall meetings and the parents will meet with their son's faculty advisor. That evening the parents will stay in Belk dormitory.

Sunday morning at 9 a.m. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan will deliver an address on “Education as Preparing for Living.” He will be followed by Terry who will speak on “Student Life: Today and Tomorrow.” At 11 a.m. George Buttrick will deliver the sermon at the Sunday morning worship service in the College Presbyterian Church. After lunch, parents will say their goodbyes and at 2 p.m. Richard C. Burts Jr. will speak to the freshmen on scheduling. The students will return to the dorms and discuss with their hall counselors the necessary courses. From 3:30-5:00 freshmen will meet individually with their faculty advisors. After supper, freshmen will hear a presentation by the ROTC department and then continue with individual faculty appointments. Late Sunday night hall meetings will again be held.

Monday morning the last of the faculty appointments will be held. The President will deliver an address at 2 p.m., followed by a discussion of campus governance and student conduct. At 3:30 the individual halls will meet with hall counselors and faculty advisors to discuss the code of responsibility and the honor system. Monday night the freshmen will have a mixer with the girls from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.

On Tuesday at 9 a.m. there will be a presentation of the new social system followed by individual hall discussions. At 11:30 there will be a presentation of Davidson's extracurricular activities. That afternoon the freshmen will have the time to themselves. The Activities Fair will be held that evening, and classes start Wednesday.

The Admissions Office filled its depleted ranks this summer by hiring two assistant directors of admissions and one part-time student to recruit blacks. William S. Miller, 26, and Norman R. Broadbent, 27, both with master's degrees and professional admissions experience, will assist Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White, and Lester Strong, a Davidson senior, will concentrate on talking to interested black applicants.

Miller was an assistant director of admissions at Albion College, Albion, Mich., from 1966-70. He obtained an A.B. degree from Albion in 1966 and an M.A. from Michigan State University this past June. Broadbent has been an admissions counselor at Drury College in Springfield, Mo., since 1968, where he has been completing work for his master's degree.

Fuller Assists HEW Commissioner

Assistant Professor of Political Science Jon W. Fuller moved to Washington D.C. this summer where he will assume his duties as Special Assistant to the U.S. Commissioner of Education. Working in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW), Fuller will become one of two special assistants to U.S. Commissioner of Education Sydney Marland. Fuller will perform a number of tasks including liaison work between the education branch of HEW and Congress. He will answer questions and write letters to keep congressmen abreast of educational problems. When the commissioner testifies before a congressional committee, Fuller will be alongside to handle references and files. Although he may even do some research work from time to time, Fuller said that most of his duties will be directed toward making the commissioner of education more effective.

Fuller had originally contacted “an Oxford buddy” of his who worked under Patrick Moynihan in the White House. Since there were no vacancies there, the politicalThe science professor was directed to HEW where he was hired to work in the education branch. This job is a political appointment for Fuller; he has no civil service rating. “But if Nixon doesn't get elected in '72, I'll be out looking for another job,” he said. Fuller sought this position because he wanted to have some administrative and political experience. “Apparently this is a very desirable job and is considered a good credential for other government positions,” he said. He also said he felt he was getting “stale” in Davidson. “This was the first year since I've been here that I didn't feel frightened when I walked into the classroom,” he said. “This, I felt, was a bad sign.”

Fuller said that his decision to seek the job in government was a matter of priorities. “I was beginning to spend more and more time on routine committees here, and less on more worthwhile things,” he said. “I didn't feel I was being very effective.” After further conversation, however, Fuller admitted he wasn’t very happy in Davidson. “The students were great to work with, that was the one great value to being here,” he said. “But my wife and I found that small towns have disadvantages. We found that if your life isn't centered around children or the church, you don’t fit in,” he continued. “Although it was our choice to fraternize socially with the students, it is still significant that after living here four years, I can only tell you where half the faculty live. And I have only been invited to maybe one quarter of their homes.”

The school was another factor in Fuller’s decision to leave. He said that he was leaving a little sooner than he expected, but this was because Davidson is getting to be an unhappy place. “The college administration is faced with a very serious morale problem,” he said. “And I think much of this is due to this administration’s insensitivity to people's feelings. Things are done so abrasively around here. Everything is in continual turmoil. You know, you can get a lot of mileage out of consulting people and letting them talk things out. But this doesn't get done around here,” he said.

The political science professor said that he had seen no reduction in the standards of the Davidson student as other members of the faculty have indicated. “However, this college is going to have to become coed in order for it to attract good students,” he said. Fuller emphasized that these were just his criticisms of Davidson in hope that they may be corrected. He said he was not bitter toward the college. In fact, he indicated he may want to come back someday.

He received his master’s degree. He received an A.B. from Drury in 1965 and did graduate work in psychiatric social work at Syracuse University during 1965-66. Miller will concentrate on financial aid and Broadbent on admissions. Miller succeeds Peter Sterling, who will remain at Davidson as program coordinator of the College Union, and Broadbent succeeds Jon Regen, who will be studying at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va.

Strong has already begun to recruit blacks this summer, and he will continue into the school year on a part-time basis. “The competition for qualified black college applicants is very stiff between colleges across the country,” Strong said. “It is equally as difficult to recruit a black as it is to recruit a football or basketball player,” he continued. “This is why Davidson must concentrate on attracting blacks to the school.”

College Finances (Continued From Page 1)

He had one year here. When approached by the telephone campaign, he ended up giving $1,000!” Cornell said that an organized campaign in the future should increase the amount donated to the fund. “Of course I'm happy about ending up in the black this year,” Cornell said. “Very few schools in the country enjoy this luxury. It used to be that colleges and universities would hold campaigns to increase their endowment,” he continued. “Now they have fund drive campaigns to offset their deficits.”

Cornell said that Davidson had to contend with a number of financial hazards this year. A steady inflationary factor of four to five percent raised prices and overhead. The economic slump which set in last year decreased the amount of money derived from the college endowment along with Duke endowment. The minimum wage was increased and the unemployment compensation act was passed which dropped an additional expense of $17,000 on the college. “With all these things to contend with, it is a tribute not only to the business office, but also to the entire academic community for trying to conserve funds,” Cornell said.