Page Two September 24, 1971 The Davidsonian (Staff photos by Barnes)

CLASSICAL GAS
Morris Abram critically analyses higher education.

Abram Criticizes Colleges For Superficial Relevance
By TOM AINSWORTH
Staff Writer

Sharply criticizing American higher education as suffering from “sheepskin psychosis,” Lawyer Morris B. Abram charged that a man’s worth is
equated with a college degree rather than with merit and service. Abram cited this as the prime example why so
many young people in colleges today are unhappy and have no real desire to pursue a liberal arts education.

“Thus our colleges are filled with draftees, not escaping military service, but dragooned by the ceaseless pressures of a society
which degrades many necessary and useful services,” he said.

Another educational evil which Abram noted was the failure on the part of colleges and universities to give the student
a thorough knowledge.

Coalition Reveals Schedule for ’71 Moratorium Day
By ALAN FORD
Staff Writer

Suspension of classes, guerilla theatre, vigils, and fasting head a list of tentative plans for Moratorium Day, according to Ralph
Peeples, spokesman for the Davidson Peace Coalition. The national theme for Moratorium Day 1971, is ‘local action,’ Peeples said at
the group’s Monday night meeting, consequently the Coalition's plans will reflect the local emphasis.

Mark Meza, one of the organization’s founders, said that the Davidson Coalition hopes to provide handout sheets in the near
future which will outline the various aspects of local action covered by Moratorium Day plans. The group plans to ask
for suspension of classes on Moratorium Day, Oct. 13, if their calendar of events will occupy the entire day.

Plans for guerilla theatre productions are still embryonic, but they are being planned for outdoor presentation. Tentative plans were also
disclosed for a continuation of guerilla theatre presentations throughout the year.

Cecil Wilson, campus coordinator for the Moratorium Day activities, is planning vigils which will occupy an important portion of the
observances. Two possible locations for the vigils include Davidson and Charlotte.

Meza announced that fasting to end the war will again be on an individual basis. He said that the group
will offer encouragement and support to those who participate.

When asked about suspension of classes on Moratorium Day, Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., said that such a
decision rests with the faculty. “I do not believe the college institution should become politicized; consequently, I personally have reservations
about suspending classes,” he said.

Lake Swimming Prohibited
By DAVID FOERSTER
Staff Writer

Shortly after the beginning of the academic school year Coach Charles W. Parker issued a statement that the Athletic Department
had officially closed the swimming facilities at the lake campus. The extent of the closing advised students and other members
of the community of the dangers of swimming in Lake Norman.

Since the issuance of Parker’s directive, the lifeguard, which the Athletic Department has provided to oversee swimming activities, has been
removed, but measures to keep students as well as

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
CECIL BURNEY
TODD HOBBIE

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
DAVID HANIG

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Photography Editor:
JOHN DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON
ALEC HOON

Copy Editors:
BOBBIE BLACKWOOD
JAMES HANNA

Advertising Manager:
WHIT WHITWORTH

Assistant Copy Editor:
BILL ELLETT

Ass’t Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER
CHARLIE TERRELL
HOWARD BOYD

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
STEVE SHEPHERD
GREG MITCHELL

Photographers:
BILL BARNES
FRANK ERWIN
PAUL HORWITZ
TOM CAMPBELL

Contributors this week:
Thomas Ainsworth, Russell Carter, David Foerster, and John Kepchar.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.Other members of
the community out of the water have not been taken. According to Parker, the major reason for closing the swimming
facilities is principally due to the deterioration of the swimming dock, which has been in bad repair for roughly two
years. It seems, Parker continued, that the deterioration has caused the water to become quite muddy, thus making swimming unsafe.
Parker added that to the best of his knowledge, students are still swimming in Lake Norman.

Tom Scott, director of athletics, said that Grover C. Meetze Jr., Director of Buildings and Grounds, was in the midst
of preparing a cost analysis statement for the business office concerning the replacement of the dock and other related facilities
that are in a state of dilapidation. When questioned, Scott added that such a report or initial estimates were not
yet available to the general public. Scott said that he hoped that the dock would be repaired in the not
too distant future, but that an official date for the initiation of repairs had not yet been issued by the
business office. Meetze was not available for comment due to his absence from the Davidson campus.

"The failure of such an education is recorded not only in the boredom of students, the restlessness of faculties, and
the intellectual vacuity of its certified graduates; it is reflected as well in student demands for curricular relevance," Abram said.
As an example of administrative fault in this process, Abram noted "instant" Black Studies Programs which arose in response to
these demands before there was even qualified literature or teachers for these courses. The proper function of higher liberal education,
in his point of view, was to "teach those students who have the capacity and desire to learn from books
how to learn."

In a press conference which followed the convocation, Abram said that the only answer he could see for the financial
dilemma of higher education was "massive and unrestricted federal assistance to financially ailing colleges." Speaking on the friction between private
and public education, Abram said, "the survival of private education is indispensable to that of public education." He noted that
it was in the private institutions where both academic freedom and excellence arose, two of the primary bases on which
public education rests. Concluding the press conference, Abram stressed that the question was not that private institutions "have to survive,
but at what quality and level they must survive."

In the convocation ceremony itself, College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. introduced this year’s new faculty members to the college,
followed by the presentations of the Alumni Association Medal and Thomas Jefferson Award. The former award, presented to the member
of the freshman class achieving the highest average in one of the degree programs, was given by Daniel S. LaFar,
Jr., head of the Alumni Association, to John M. Douglas, Jr. John M. Bevan, Vice President for Academic Affairs, next
presented the Thomas Jefferson Award to this year's outstanding faculty member, Earl R. MacCormac, associate professor of philosophy. After Abram’s
address, Honorary Doctor of Laws degrees were conferred on both Abram and Clanton Williams.

New Draft Law

On September 21, Congress passed the draft bill, and one of its consequences is that student college deferments for entering
freshmen are not authorized. The only exceptions to this are those enrolled in ROTC. The ROTC Department will answer any
questions in Belk Dorm or by telephoning 366 or 377. The deadline is noon, Friday, September 24, to ensure enrollment
in Basic ROTC for this term.

DECAY FROM NEGLECT

Rotten planks and jagged nails remain a hazard.
