Che Davidsonian

A summer edition published in June, July, and August. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence
to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

RICH WILSON—Summer Editor-in-Chief

PAGE FOUR JULY-AUGUST, 1971

Maybe Self-Examination

Although we must feel happy over Professor Fuller’s appointment as Special Assistant to the Commissioner of Education, we can’t help
but express grief over losing such a dedicated professor. His loss will be felt not only in the Political Science
Department but also in the faculty as a body. A popular man with the students, Fuller exhibited a teaching method
that inspired his students and encouraged them to use their imagination and creativity.

What his students liked most about him was his candid approach to problems both in the classroom and out, and
this candor was no more apparent than in the interview he had with THE DAVIDSONIAN before he left for Washington,
D.C. He raised the issue of many faculty members in this community who close ranks on those who don’t fit
exactly into their life patterns. As Fuller mentioned, this matter applies to those who don’t participate in the church and
to those who don’t have children, but the implications are more widespread. This social ostracism also applies to single faculty
members and many young couples just out of college. If Davidson is to maintain any vitality whatsoever, all of its
members must be welcomed into the society.

Fuller’s remarks pertaining to the administration were even more on the mark. That the college administration faces a serious morale
problem, that things are done abrasively around here, that this administration is insensitive are truths no matter how hard they
are to accept. The disillusioning thing is that Fuller did not see any real attempt to rectify the situation, especially
on the part of the administration.

But probably the most interesting thing Fuller said, however, was that “Davidson is getting to be an unhappy place.” Whether
this is an exaggeration or an understatement is unimportant. What is significant is that many professors and many more students
are unhappy here. For too long we have rationalized that somebody is always going to be unhappy so why worry
about it. Had we realized it sooner, we might have seen that there is something very, very wrong here. We’ve
changed governance systems and social systems, but the elusive “pulse” still lingers in the atmosphere of this college. Instead of
examining systems, maybe each of us should undergo a period of self-examination. Maybe the “problem” lies with the people, not
in the system.

Hope For The Triangle

The experiment of both the parents and their freshmen sons participating in orientation activities this fall may prove to be
a very positive step in bettering relations among the three basic units involved in educating a man: the man himself,
the institution which he attends, and his parents, who in most cases, pay the bill. Each of these three groups
has a difficult time trying to relate and communicate to the others. The student grapples with the college in order
to understand the meaning of his education, and he wrestles with his parents after he becomes exposed to other lifestyles
and begins to experiment for himself. Similarly, the parents shriek with horror as their son returns from college with long
hair, and approach near hysteria if they should discover that their son has slept with a girl. They look at
their offspring and little adults at the institution but the two seem such opposites, and the parent is thus alienated
from both the student and the institution.

The college, on the other hand, doesn’t seem to hear what the student is yelling but maybe this is because
the parents are yelling in the other ear. The success of the three-sided triangle mounts. However, it is due to
the innovative ideas of Dean Terry that these three groups may come into a better understanding of each other by
participating in orientation activities together. This fall both the parents and the freshmen are being educated as to the meaning
of college. But this experiment, if successful, should be extended when the freshmen parents return for Freshman Parents Day. At
this time maybe a “firing line” question and answer session would be helpful so that the parents and the freshmen
could ask questions and give their views to the college. It is only through this sort of interchange of views
that these three groups will come to an understanding of each other.

And Administrators

WHERE IS DAVIDSON GOING?

College’s Future Depends Upon Loyalty, Concern

By DANIEL D. RHODES
Professor of Religion

Some people think of Davidson as a small, male college in a small southern community bypassed bythe mainstream of life—untouched
and apathetic—existing on myths of the past and content with the status quo. As they see it, the little change
that does occur is insubstantial and results only from the expended blood, sweat, and tears of a given student generation.
Others view the current Davidson as a mutilated Walden: a small, ex-male college in a small southern community that has
become a spiritual suburb of Charlotte-Washington-Detroit or Berkeley-Columbia-Yale, which has cast aside all past ideals and is content only with
the discontent of frantic motion. As they see it, the mass changes that take place are of no substantial nature,
endangering the character of the institution, and resulting from questionable admissions policies, ill-advised faculty appointments, and wishy-washy administrative action. Of
course, these descriptions are caricatures. But they point to real attitudes that express themselves in disagreement and genuine concern. Such
interest is wholesome and fortunately is able to manifest itself at the organizational level. Alumni, churchmen, and friends serve on
the Board of Trustees. Students serve with faculty on most college committees, work with Trustees, faculty, and students. Because of
this, productive compromise is possible. There is little question that Davidson is in a period of radical transition. She cannot
and should not remain static. But she should retain her identity and capitalize upon her strengths in the midst of
her growth. During the past 10 years, Davidson has been engaged in three major self-study projects. These studies combined with
the normal ongoing reevaluation processes have produced a variety of results: the development of the humanities program, interdepartmental courses, extended
studies, revised area requirements, revised requirements in religion, revised policies on social organizations and athletics, abolition of the faculty vow,
an integrated student body, student representation on most college committees, a three-term school year, self-scheduled examinations, the honors college, the
student code of responsibility, the foreign study program, cooperative programs with towns, and summer programs for Project Opportunity students and
public school teachers.

Just this spring, a trustee-administration-faculty committee began work on a new system of governance for college life. A new organization
for cocurricular activities will be presented next year. And at a reasonably near date in the future, the trustees will
complete their revision of the college By-Laws. Davidson is changing. The question is: Can Davidson retain her identity in the
midst of these changes? Do the changes contribute to the realization of her best self? Will Davidson students look back
upon their undergraduate experience with appreciation? Will graduate and professional schools find our students well prepared? In the past, Davidson
has done a reasonably able job of providing the context in which students could get the basics of a liberal
arts education and preparation for professional and graduate school work. Many faculty members are concerned lest we so alter our
educational processes that our students get by with a minimum of rigorous scholarly activity to the eventual detriment of our
students’ professional lives. Do we need a little time to do some fine-tuning of the educational instrument we have already
designed? Many people, on and off the campus, are quite concerned about college policy in regard to the personal conduct
of students, social organizations, and athletics. These are areas that consistently elicit emotional responses, and no institution will please all
interested persons no matter what approach it takes. It is to be hoped that the administration will continue to communicate
with the whole college community (including friends and alumni) explaining the overall direction of the college and in particular the
new policies relating to fraternities and athletics. It is further to be hoped that the college can come up with
a sane policy and procedure that will express its interest in and concern about student conduct. Finally, we should note
that Davidson has not escaped the economic squeeze of the day. Income from conventional sources has shrunk and new money
is hard to raise. As a small, private college, Davidson is genuinely vulnerable. A time of transition and tight money
provides those who are looking for excuses an opportune moment in which to be destructively critical or file for divorce.
At the same time, it challenges students, faculty, administrators, trustees, churchmen, alumni, and friends to explore and express new depths
of loyalty and creative concern. Davidson has lived on such loyalty, and her future depends upon it. ... and two
to go!
