The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY: AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR

To Be Self Governed

With the governance committee meeting to decide on the living patterns of the student body, it is timely and important
that the students make a strong case for whichever system they prefer. Our position is one which was called “No
norms in the dorms” by one faculty member. Stated in its simplest terms, what we advocate is a lease system
for dormitory rooms. When a student enters college and particularly when he is about to graduate, the college should not
have the responsibility or right to act as a doting parent, intent on making sure that Junior does nothing to
harm himself morally, mentally, physically, or spiritually.

College is a time of transition between the family situation and living on your own in the broader world. To
be subject to the dormitory regulations of the college is not the way to develop that independence.

A lease system would also help untangle the legal morass in which the college finds itself, particularly with respect to
drug laws. The students would be real people, not sheltered students, and as such would have the rights and obligations
of citizenship.

APRIL 30, 1971

The college has shown an understandable unwillingness to prosecute drug cases. Last spring’s case showed that the legal structure on
campus cannot handle such a case without opening the college to damage suits in the civil courts. If the college
still wishes to help direct student life, it should take the form of counseling, not dormitory and behavior rules. And
lest we forget, the student can learn from his assumption of the obligations as well as the rights of a
lease system. He would be just as responsible as any other member of society for his actions and would have
to consider his activity in a hopefully more mature style.

Admissions Overhaul

It should come as no surprise to anyone that Davidson is having trouble attracting students for next year’s freshman class.
Indeed, what is surprising is that it has taken this long for intelligent high school seniors to begin to reject
their letters of acceptance from Davidson. What we are calling into question are the attitudes and practices of the college’s
admissions department. We cannot deny that statistically the admissions department has been successful in the past, for it somehow always
seems to attract the exact number of freshmen needed each year. This year, however, it appears that things have changed,
for with the deadline for student decisions drawing near, the number of high school seniors who have made the 100
dollar deposit to Davidson is lower than usual.

The concern here, therefore, is not with how the admissions department is going to attain the quantity of freshmen needed
next year to fill East, Cannon, and Watts, for we are confident that the admissions directors will accept enough to
reach the goal of 325 freshmen even if it means lowering standards and watering down the student body with mediocre
students. Rather, our concern is with why the college is having trouble attracting the best college prospects.

Unfortunately, Davidson’s admissions department has not yet realized that this is no longer a country club, and the student body
here is not like it was in the forties or fifties or even the sixties. Davidson can no longer sit
back and wait for the best high school seniors to come here, but instead has to go out and get
them. The people in admissions don’t seem to understand this, however, and as a result recruiting is relatively minimal. Furthermore,
there are numerous reports that when prospects do come here, they are given a very poor reception by members of
the admissions department, if an admissions staff member bothers to receive the prospect at all. Such a charge is grave,
we realize, but there is just too much evidence to ignore such a gross reality.

In short, what we are saying is that the Davidson admissions department is not doing its job. This, and not
high tuition or the economic state of the country, is the primary reason that many of the best high school
seniors will not be at Davidson next year.

PAUL ROWLAND

Alonzo Cohen Does Exist Despite Frequent Denials

Do you believe in Alonzo Cohen? Earl MacCormac and I were once the only believers, but Cohen’s fame has been
spreading.and, like all controversial figures, he has been subject to many myths. My first encounter with Professor Cohen came when
my roommate Jim Philips shared a Cohen quote which proved particularly appropriate for a paper in Dr. MacCormac’s seminar on
symbol formation. Since that time Cohen and I have become very good friends, and he asked that I write this
column to falsify the widespread denials of his existence. Now, proof of someone’s existence when they aren't around to assert
their own being is very difficult, as philosophers from Anselm to Aquinas to Augustine have long ago shown. But there
are at least three proofs of Cohen's existence available to us:

First, there are his works. The report of Cohen’s work on rain forest cultures recorded in the hoax issue of
THE DAVIDSONIAN was false, but Dr. Cohen does have two books and a journal article to his credit, namely “Semantical
Aspects of Syntax” and its sequel, “Syntactical Aspects of Semantics,” with the perceptive article “Does History Make Sense?”

The second proof of Dr. Cohen's existence is pictured on this page, a bust of the professor presented to me
by the artist who is a sister in a Decatur, Georgia convent. (Due to the humility of her order, she
must remain nameless.)

Third, we have the meditations of Alonzo Cohen. The following pensées, heretofore unpublished, are offered for your consideration:
1. Mind is not entity but process.
2. “Are you good at riddles?” she asked; he knew not how to answer.
3. I have learned that elaborate questions evade, but will simple ones get answers?
4. “Know thyself,” the Greek did say; and who shall introduce me?
5. Write an essay: “Anatomy and Cleopatra.”
6. My sleep was strangely disturbed; I dreamed I died and all my dreams came true.
7. An argument is a rhetorical device.
8. Frederick Nietzsche said “Perhaps Truth is a woman,” and what pray tell man?
9. Most of my days wasted recalling joys I have tasted.
10. “I lied to you,” he confessed; and, as usual, she believed him.
11. “Cast your bread upon the water,” the Bible says: but on your own you must learn, the ducks are
bound to eat it.

Finally, Alonzo Cohen has offered to share his epitaph:
Too many cheeks, not enough chins
Too many lovers, too few friends
Too much confession, too much sin
Too hard to smile, too easy to grin
Excess is my fatal flaw.

LETTER

Students

To the Editor:
A few weeks ago the majority of those of us rooming on the first floor of Richardson sponsored a party
with a group of women from a neighboring institution. We planned the party ourselves, as a residence hall unit, and
for the most part, the party was held on our hall and in the basement of the dorm. It was
in the spirit of the new social system that we planned this hall party, opening it up to everyone in
the dorm who wanted to attend.

Of course, I'm well adjusted to facilitate — true.

Dean of Students Will Terry and Scottie Nichols, director of student housing, both endorsed the party since it was sponsored
by a residence hall unit. In all, the party cost us 35 dollars (for gas, drinks, etc.). Since this party
was a residence hall project, we felt that the Residence Hall Association (RHA) should foot the bill. The RHA constitution
provides for such aid, the RHA has the money, and considering the new emphasis on a nonexclusive social life on
campus, we felt that the RHA had an obligation to reimburse us. After all, there are few residence hall projects
on this campus.

However, the RHA, behind Bill Alexander, felt otherwise, and refused to grant the 35 dollars to the hall. This seems
most unfortunate to us. Not only are we losing 35 dollars on a project which should be sponsored financially by
the RHA, but we've also become aware of the fact that the present Alexander administration in the RHA will not
respond to honest and legitimate attempts at improving residence hall social life.

Robert Peele ‘72
J. Greg Johnson ‘72
David M. Scarborough ‘72
Robert Brice ‘72
George P. Shingler ‘72
Chip Price ‘72
Gary Scibal ‘72
Bruce Batten '73
S. E. Webb ‘71
Billy Mohr ‘72
Max Thomason ‘72
Pat Reardon ‘72
Robert Norris ‘72
J. M. Ellison ‘72
Nick Roberto ‘73
Richard Neal ‘72
Brian Evans ‘72
Bob Lewis ‘73
Peter Morgan ‘73
John Robison ‘73
A. W. Turner Jr. ‘72
