Page Two The Davidsonian December 3, 1971

TIBETAN RELIC
Spencer acquired Tibetan tea canister on sojourn to India.

Physical Education Program Successful
AN ANALYSIS
By TODD EADES
Staff Writer

The new physical education program, after being in effect for one term, is working rather well. Problems were to be expected with an innovative program but they are being dealt with. Overall, the program has been favorably received.

The most favorable component of the program is its flexibility. Students have two options to fulfill their physical education requirements. One is to pass a proficiency test in a sport, the other is to attend classes in that sport with credit being given even if proficiency is not achieved.

Spencer, Gaige Complete Negotiations At Baroda U.
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Asst. Managing Editor

Davidson’s newest foreign study program, a South Asian year at the University of Baroda in India, should receive the national government's approval in about a month.

College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., and Gaige, director of South Asia Studies, recently returned from a three-week trip to India in which they presented the case for approval to the Ministry of Education of India. The two talked with R. Chitkara, the official responsible for foreign exchange programs. Before traveling to New Delhi, Spencer and Gaige visited the University of Baroda, where they were entertained by Vakil, the Chancellor of the institution. They talked about details of the program.

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
CECIL BURNEY
BILL ELLETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI
LEX VEAZEY

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
HOWARD BOYD

Sports Editor:
J. B. FAWCETT

Photography Editor:
STEVE BALCUM

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

Copy Editors:
FRANK ERWIN
BOBBIE BLACKWOOD
PAUL HORWITZ
JAMES HANNA
JOE RODRIGUEZ

Advertising Manager:
WHIT WHITWORTH

Assistant Copy Editor:
TODD HOBBIE

Ass't Sports Editor:
CHARLIE TERRELL

Cartoonists:
JOE EARLE
TERRY HIRST

Photographers:
ALEC HOON
TOM CAMPBELL

Circulation Managers:
[Names missing]

Contributors this week:
Tom Bruce, Scott McMichael, Frank Soos, and Mike Tanner.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Spencer said. He credited extensive preparations by Gaige as a major factor in the success of the trip. Two things were especially encouraging to Spencer. One was the cordial reception by Baroda University officials. Spencer said the officials seemed enthusiastic. In addition, the program has already received the approval of the University and the government of the state of Gujarat.

The Many Faces Of Crime
A REVIEW
By FRANK SOOS

Nyahh! says Eleck the Milkman from across the room with a puss that looks like it just got busted up by the boys in the back room. Eleck, better known as Alexander Evans, is in Stowe Galleries this month along with fifteen or so of his hooligan friends. The show is famous criminals brought to you by Ted Potter of Winston-Salem, director of the Gallery of Contemporary Art. These criminal faces, each replete with a nifty wanted poster that brings to light the heinous deeds of a nasty life, look like they could well have walked straight out of the pages of a Dickens novel. They're mean men — from the days when it was something to be a hood. No draft dodgers, dope sellers here, only clean living sneak thieves, pickpockets, and the lot. Don’t go away yet. Ted Potter is an amazing artist of faces (this week’s bad pun). His work ranges...from strictly standard oil painting and drawing to a collage-like technique in what are probably the best works of the show. A sketch comes to life through the use of cut-out paste-ons and bright colors that set off the sneer-faced criminals. Sometimes, portions of the face are covered by a cut-out counterpart. The effect is both grotesque and striking, provided the student does not overdo it.

The worst problem was a misunderstanding over attendance rules of physical education classes caused by inadequate communication of the program to the students. Many students believed that attendance of classes which they had registered for was not compulsory. Attendance is compulsory, with the college's 25% cut rule in effect, if credit for that sport is expected from that class and not the proficiency test option. The new program allows students to spend less time in the gym if they have the necessary skills in a sport, instead of being required to spend time in class merely to receive credit. But the student with little athletic ability or inclination still must attend classes or acquire the skills on his own.

The Physical Education department stresses the student's acquisition of skills in a sport more than simple physical activity, and the new program supports this idea. But there are drawbacks to the new system, due mostly to its newness. Registration was and still is disorganized, and communication between students and the gym is poor. The proficiency tests have some problems also, such as finding a coach to administer the test. Students have been lax in showing up to take the test after signing up, too. Some of the tests are too difficult, and some are too easy, but this is being worked on. The new program has been well received by most coaches, who have fewer students, and by the students who have avoided twenty hour-long classes by passing a test. Freshmen have accepted the program and most of them are making progress towards the physical education requirement. The idea of not having to spend unnecessary time in the gym is well liked. Sophomores are having more trouble, mostly because they feel they can put off the requirements until later. But there are several seniors who have not completed their requirements, and it seems that they might not be graduated because of it. Physical education still has its problems like all the other departments, but the new program definitely is, as Athletic Director Tom Scott said, "a great improvement" over the old system.

Registration: Today is the last day that students may drop or add courses to their schedule. Students may, however, continue to drop courses until Friday, Dec. 10.

Henry Cline will draw you into his corner of the room with his bloody red eye. He'll leave you puzzled at the spontaneous power in the picture and the words that are coming out of his mouth in a steady, sneaky stream. Sometimes Potter’s work can be weak. A couple of the things don't jump off the wall at you, but if you will look closely you can see great bits in all of the works. He handles his mediums very facilely; particularly noteworthy are his varied effects on canvas. Ted Potter's COPS AND ROBBERS exhibit features the real bad guys.

Often his work is careless but this carelessness can lead to a spontaneous power in the picture. His smudged sketches do all they can to suggest a sooty character. I don't know if it works as well for poor mats and stickers on the glass. For further insight into those jaundice-eyed rats of the good old days, come by the galleries on the sixth (not the eighth as formerly advertised) of December to hear Potter himself explain his work. The show will be up until December 16 for more leisurely looking. (Staff photo by Erwin)