LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Students Excoriate Hobbie For Anti-Fraternity Column

To The Editor:

The Hobbie name continues to be as abhorrent to us as ever. Todd Hobbie’s article, however, has done nothing to
change our minds. In fact, latent violence has replaced mild nausea. It is obvious that one of Hobbie’s outstanding qualities
is that of perception—after all, he wasn’t fooled by fraternities. No sir. Most of his classmates were fooled, but certainly
not Todd Hobbie. Well seniors, what’s your excuse? Do you enjoy being called fools?

Todd was fortunate because he had the opportunity to listen to the wise counsel of that great sage and soothsayer
Peter Hobbie, his brother. But we aren’t writing about Peter for he is gone (thank God). Now all we are
waiting for is the fond departure of Todd.

Rejoice frat men! Todd forgives you for being led astray like vestal virgins into the clutches of the fraternity wolves.
It could happen to any normal, decent, bright, perceptive, respectable young man, which is probably why it never happened to
Hobbie.

Perhaps the real point of this letter (other than showing Hobbie to be a complete ass) is to show how
Hobbie’s (as well as other frat-busters) fanatical hatred has distorted the issues. It is good that there are “viable alternatives”
to fraternities. However, this does not mean that fraternities need be destroyed. What could be more egotistical and close-minded than
removing fraternities from Davidson merely because some people don’t believe in them. There are people who do and they should
be given the opportunity to join a fraternity.

I don’t think Mr. Hobbie realizes that students are not coerced into joining fraternities. Then again, we can understand why
Hobbie has not been strongly rushed. How can you rush God?

Mr. Hobbie, upon reading your article we thought at first that you were a subversive element in our “progressive college
community.” After our tempers cooled, we realized that you are only a poor, misguided, paranoid egotist. It is increasingly obvious
that your article was a sham and really does not deserve a reply, but to make sure that no one
is fooled and to let you know that we would like to take an active part in burning you, this
letter is written.

In closing this letter we want to apologize for making this a personal attack, but Mr. Hobbie set the rules
of the game when he personally attacked fraternities. Mr. Hobbie, if you would get your head together you would realize
that fraternities don’t like you very much either.

Larry Spears ‘73
Jeff Graham ‘73
Davidson College

By FRANK SOOS

This month Stowe Galleries, a modern structure reflecting the ideals of Davidson, presents the third in a row of, with
promises of more to come, simply good art. From now until November 20, the works of Tucker Cooke, professor of
art at the University of North Carolina at Asheville, will be on display.

The Work. Well, the work is...Enough to excite a Homeric catalogue of elephants, airborne fish, rhinoceroses, clothed and unclothed ladies
(we thought you’d go for that). But perhaps to see how this all fits together, you must see the show.
Cooke uses oil paint and pencil as his media. In his drawings, a figure merges into one object, becomes another
through the flow of the picture. The grotesque is passed off as the natural. See if you can find a
figure with a six-fingered hand. His paintings are somewhat different. Unlikely images are presented alongside each other. The contrasting images
make suggestions at meaning but always leave you hanging. The paintings are realistic to the extreme. Cooke’s style is photographic.
His colors are often the shades of grey of black and white photography. All of the pictures maintain this photographic
exactitude which heightens the allusion to reality. Think of photographs and you think of the exact reproduction of reality. Then
look at the bizarre combinations — What mental connections need to be made? Cooke doesn’t provide an answer and perhaps
his titles suggest that he could be laughing at you for trying. There will be a gallery talk on Wednesday,
November 10 for the purpose of seeing just what Tucker Cooke is about.

LETTERS
Page Five

(Staff photo by Erwin)
PHOTOGRAPH OR PAINTING? Cooke's paintings resemble a bizarre snapshot.

Grotesque Merges Into Real
A REVIEW

To The Editor:
I am writing to you on behalf of the brothers of Delta Kappa Chapter of the Fraternity of Phi Gamma
Delta to request that you cease using the name of our organization when referring to the structure on Patterson Court
presently being used for Hungry activities. As you are well aware, Phi Gamma Delta has ceased all operations on Patterson
Court, and, until the completion of our off-campus lodge in early 1972, there is not a “Phi Gamm House” in
Davidson. We, therefore, request that our name not be associated with something we take no part in. May we suggest
that you call upon THE COMPUTER to “randomly assign” a name to the structure on Patterson Court?

Patrick A. Reardon ‘72
Davidson College

To The Editor:
I would like to object to the manner in which the “student referendum” was held recently. As I understand the
method, the election official came along the hall sometime during the afternoon accepting ballots from those around. We had no
way of knowing when we would be or whether we had yet been polled in as much as no ballot
or offering of a place to vote was left for my roommate, who wasn’t in. By mere chance I happened
to come back to my room for a book at the time my hall was polled or else I would
have been disenfranchised along with everyone else who had a Tuesday lab, a job, a long lunch, or who for
any other reason did not come back to their room in the afternoon. While this may be a fair method
of holding a poll, I consider it unacceptable for a constitutional referendum.

Al Barefoot ‘74
Bill Barnes ‘74
Davidson College
