————

She Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR NOVEMBER 5, 1971

A Four Day Work Week

First we ask that the student compact all of the information, ideas, and concepts that he has learned into a single examination. Then we decide that this compact resume of true knowledge will be worth as much as 40% of the evaluation of the course. And then we decree that 40% of the course will be wrapped up in four days.

We do not mean to suggest that students should be given a two or three week examination period. What we do suggest is that the examination schedule adopted by the EPC is unfair to the students. There is a sizeable number of students involved in the football program. On one of the four exam days they will be playing football against The Citadel. Football players are put in the position of three examinations in three days, hardly a situation conducive to finding out precisely how much of the material that halfback has mastered. Many other students find themselves faced with a review and/or a lab practical the final two days of class and no study days before they begin the four days of examinations.

We recognize that there are costs involved in keeping the college open for the additional two or three days required to extend examinations to Monday and Tuesday. But the value to students which accrues from having the time to prepare for the examinations far more than offsets those costs.

The Lizard King

“I am the Lizard King, I can do anything.”

The latest trustee decisions concerning the by-laws represent either a tremendous extent of unconscious acceptance or a marked disregard for the concerns of the college. Several provisions of the by-laws create essentially one center of power, the administration and more specifically, the President. The students and the faculty have been relegated to the role of advisors to the administration and the Board of Trustees.

Any faculty member given tenure must be an active member of a Christian Church. This is a problem which has been discussed before among students, faculty and administration. In the search for excellence in prospective faculty members it would appear that we are limiting ourselves unnecessarily with this provision, particularly in South Asian studies. If a faculty member leads a life which can be considered worth imitation by the trustees, it does not seem that they should be able to shove him into a church each week as well.

The President shall have the authority either to stay or to suspend the effectiveness of any action by the Faculty or by any Faculty or student organization. The initial chartering, and also the continuance, of any group or organization on the campus shall be subject to the approval of the President. These sections of the article concerning Faculty and Student organizations follow the provision providing for trustee chartering of the faculty and any student organization dealing with governance.

Although we would be far from identifying President Spencer as the latter day Caesar created by the by-laws, this article has placed all effective power with the President. It has taken the efficacy away from the faculty and the student body. If, for example, the senate were to pass a motion concerning open dorms, the President could stay its effectiveness with no recourse left for the students. Complete power for organizing campus activity rests with the President. It is difficult to accept that the trustees have so little confidence in the students or in the Christian faculty members whom they have hired.

CECIL BURNEY

Morey And Crew Execute

I walked by the Carolina Inn a couple of nights ago with Ralph Peeples and noticed that several people were arriving for an organizational meeting of the Davidson Young Republicans. Ralph and I decided we'd walk into the meeting and observe what was going on. When we walked in, of course, a big hush came across the assembled group, and it seemed they were sure that either two Communists or two devils had appeared on their doorstep.

The Young Republicans meeting was organized by George Kaneklides, a junior, who in the past few years has changed his views a good bit from politically conservative to a more liberal stance. George, like so many others, has realized the war in Viet Nam is an inhumane tragedy, he has seen other examples of human tragedy around him, and he has begun to find ways of working for a more human world. George worked long and hard to print announcement sheets and posters for his meeting and to arrange for the use of the Carolina Inn. His stated purpose was just to form a Republican organization which was more divergent and did not suffer from only having within it the arch-conservatives.

Ralph and I watched the meeting carefully, and what I am about to describe might be called the “political rape of George Kaneklides.” What happened was absolutely incredible. George opened the meeting by asking that a constitutional committee be formed so that future procedures for the club could be set up. All of the sudden, from one side of the room, Bob Morey launched his hand into the air and screamed, as though he were Sen. Joe McCarthy, “Point of order! Point of order! You can’t set up aconstitutional committee without electing a Temporary Chairman for this organizational meeting!” Then, to Ralph and me, the picture became clear. Bob Morey was up to his legalistic tricks, and we knew that he was getting ready to knife George in the back. We looked around the room and noticed that all of Morey’s cohorts were there, too: Mark Deininger (dressed in coat and tie), Bill Eskridge, and Danny Berry. Most of the arch-conservative national members of Sigma Phi Epsilon were there, and the ROTC department’s cadets were wildly represented. Danny Berry was nominated for Temporary Chairman by Mark Deininger, and he beat George in the election because the room was packed by Morey’s henchmen. Berry appointed Eskridge as parliamentarian, and then a freshman member of the SPE pledge class was elected secretary. At that point, Ralph and I could see that the control of the new organization was lost to the arch-conservatives. We just waited for the next move.

The next move was the final move for this meeting, and perhaps the last move for the new organization. Bob Morey then darted his hand up and said, “I move that this meeting be adjourned until a time at which the Temporary Chairman calls another meeting.” The motion passed when all the SPE nationals and the ROTC jocks voted for it. Ralph and I were amazed. We saw before us an incredible legal maneuver. We felt that this new organization is dead because in all probability, the move by Morey, Berry, and Deininger set a means by which Danny Berry won't have to call any more meetings of the organization. And he probably won't. The works of this group of idiots was really incredible. In a short period of time, they destroyed every bit of the work done by George Kaneklides. It was an extremely inhumane treatment, through legal action, of another person, and we felt sickened by what we saw. Particularly repulsive were Bob Morey’s big, shining teeth which appeared as he felt he had defeated his enemy. He had stalked his prey, attacked, and left him behind to suffer and die. The occasion brought back to mind all the times I’ve heard Morey talk about bringing peace in Vietnam through victory by bombing the people of North Vietnam. I’ve seen him use legal maneuvers without discretion or understanding of the lives involved in the situations he has been in, and I feel so very sorry for him. Beyond that, his cohorts — Deininger, Berry, and others — have shown themselves to be likewise vainly insensitive in lots of settings. They prey upon others as though others’ personal lives do not matter. Beyond all this, Ralph and I know that in all such actions, someone seems happy that he has won, yet somehow, beneath it all, there is a loser, too, and he is the one who is so often forgotten. This is another part of the immense tragedy of which we are all a part.

Davidson Evils Reflect Society

We all know that Davidson is an evil place. Any given day, any given student can list all the bad things about Davidson. So let’s accept this evil nature as a fact at Davidson. Everyone knows Davidson is bad because it isn’t a good cross-section of society. How many Blacks do we have in proportion to Whites? How many students from lower financial backgrounds do we have? How many Jews do we have at Davidson? Everyone knows Davidson is too competitive. Students are encouraged to compete against each other for a grade rather than to learn for the sake of learning. Everyone knows Davidson students are too sheltered. They don't have to be concerned with food, shelter, and money. In most cases, Davidson students don’t even have to be concerned about learning. Knowledge is read off a professor's parchment lecture notes and rewritten in the student’s spiral notebook. Everyone knows that Davidson is a rut for most students. They don't feel really motivated. What they are learning doesn’t seem relevant. Everyone knows Davidson pushes a student. There is very little time for leisure. There is very little time to meditate. Everyone knows all these evils plus many more like them. So why is it that with so much dislike for Davidson, so many of the students stay here to graduate? It’s an easy question to answer because everyone knows that what is outside of the Davidson environment is just as evil as Davidson. Davidson reflects our society. Everyone knows that when they leave Davidson for a weekend, or after graduating, they will find themselves classed within a society. They will find themselves in a class which is anything but a good cross-section of society. Everyone knows that when they leave Davidson, they will continue to compete against their co-workers for promotion or higher salary. Everyone knows that little individualism is possible or acceptable outside of Davidson. Life outside of Davidson is generally sheltered for Davidson students. Everyone knows that man’s measure of worth depends on how hard he works at his job, how late he comes home from work, and by how little free time he has. Life outside of Davidson will be a rut for Davidson students. I would be close to last to excuse Davidson for what it is. I would be last in excusing myself and others from leaving this place upon graduation and allowing our society to cast the same pattern for Davidson to follow in years to come.