Page Six

April 23, 1971

The Davidsonian

Fuzzballers Bounce Back To 15-4

By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

With only one more week of regular season play remaining, Davidson's netters are, according to Coach Harry Fogleman, “playing real good tennis.”

The squad now has a 15-4 overall record. Early in April, the ‘Cats were crippled by the loss of Hy Lankenau and captain Jeff Chetwood due to torn ligaments. The result was three straight losses to Harvard, Virginia, and Navy.

But when those two returned, the Wildcats began what has stretched now to a five-match win streak. V.M.I. and Richmond fell by 9-0 scores. Davidson then beat The Citadel 8-1, George Washington 7-2, and most recently William and Mary 9-0.

Fogleman seemed pleased with his team's progress throughout this season.

“We had that first part of the season when we were suffering from a lack of practice,” he said, “but we have overcome that. We definitely should be the favorite in the conference tournament, if we can keep from getting overconfident.”

That Southern Conference Tourney will be played next Thursday, Friday, and Saturday here.

David Weaver, who plays in the number two spot for the Wildcats, echoed Fogleman’s optimism concerning the team’s chances. He termed Davidson's chances as “excellent.” He continued,

Skippers Finish Second At UT

By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

The Davidson sailing team completed its final warm-up for the South Atlantic Interscholastic Sailing Association finals by finishing second in a regatta at the University of Tennessee last Saturday.

Davidson finished behind Clemson and ahead of Tennessee, Duke, and South Carolina.

Skippered by Al Lundy in the A division and Jim Hunter in the B division, the Wildcats were only three points off the pace set by the winning Clemson team.

The Tennessee regatta was the ‘Cats last event before tomorrow’s Association championship regatta at Hartwell Lake in Clemson, S. C.

“Davidson is, along with The Citadel and Clemson, one of the top three teams to watch for in the championships,” said Hunter, the team's senior skipper.

“We've improved a heck of a lot this year. We should definitely be in contention.”

In tomorrow's competition, the A races will be sailed in ‘420’s’ while the B events will use “Penguins.”

Davidson’s skippers will be either Lundy or Bob Haggard in the A division and Hunter in the B section.

“I have no doubt that we will win.” Weaver was also optimistic about his chances. “I have not been too sharp all year, but my game has picked up in the last couple of weeks. The whole thing may be psychological and if it is, I hope my game comes around by tournament time.”

Weaver was happy with the progress of his freshman doubles partner Bill Allen. “Bill has been playing well recently,” he stated, “but perhaps not completely up to his potential. But he has greatly improved as the season has progressed.”

The number one player for Davidson, Bob Koury, was also pleased with his game. “In the last couple of matches,” he said, “my game has been the best it has been all year. I am especially happy with the way my volleys are coming around.”

Fogleman said that his players would pass up any opportunities to go to the N.C.A.A. tennis championships in order to help him teach his annual summer tennis clinic.

Six of the Davidson netters will join their coach in the instruction camp.

Davidson's last week of matches before the tournament is going to be far from an easy set of warm-ups.

The coming week's schedule includes some of the toughest opponents for the year for the Wildcats.

Today the Wildcats entertain Presbyterian.

Fogleman called the Blue Hose “the best tennis team we will face this year.”

Fogleman added that Presbyterian is favored to capture the N.C.A.A. small college championship.

Tomorrow the ‘Cats travel to Durham to face Duke. They have matches scheduled for each of the two days immediately prior to the tournament, going on the road Tuesday to meet Appalachian, and returning home Wednesday to close out their regular season with East Carolina, a conference foe.

Going into the E.C.U. match, Davidson is undefeated in the Southern Conference. The team owns a perfect 5-0 conference mark.

Schlitz Malt Liquor.
Our sign is Taurus, the Bull.

Can you handle us?

Tremendous strength, power, reliability; dependable good taste. That's what Taurus is known for. Schlitz Malt Liquor, too.

Venus, the ruling planet, makes Taurus sociable, fond of fun, and able to inspire friendship in others. Maybe you and the Bull should get together. Maybe you'd hit it off.

But maybe not.

It depends on your sign. Because Taurus has a powerful mean streak.

There’s a helluva fire in the Bull.

So check your stars. They'll tell you straight if you're the kind of person who can meet Schlitz Malt Liquor head-on.

Nobody makes malt liquor like Schlitz. Nobody.