Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
OCTOBER 1, 1971

Beer Is For The Living

The question of a beer permit for the student union raises questions more fundamental and far-reaching than those involved in
this particular issue. First, we believe that the beer permit is a valid option the college may exercise. The college
has recognized that any number of the students on this campus drink beer, be it out of cans that they
are served from at Hungry I’s or up the road at Hattie’s. The college permits drinking in the fraternity houses,
the dormitories, and in selected areas in the college union. The trustees and the administration no longer seem to consider
consumption to be one of the Presbyterian deadly sins.

The chief reason for the application for a permit is the convenience angle. If the social council does make an
application for a permit, it is not on the grounds that they hope to make a lot of money. It
is to make it more convenient for those who bring their own beer to check in at the bar now.
The questions which the administration has raised over the issue are just that, questions. There has been no direct opposition
to the idea of a beer permit. The reluctance of the administration rests primarily on the reaction campus sale of
beer would have on the college’s image in Charlotte and Davidson as well as with the alumni. We are happy
that the administration is concerned with these long-range implications, but they also have an obligation to the one thousand students
here now to carefully consider the immediate benefits. The environment at Davidson is the environment that the students must live
in, not the environment that Charlotteans and alumni must bear. If the students wish to have beer sold on campus,
and the senate has reflected that opinion, the administration should be primarily disposed in that direction unless they have objections
to the sale of beer apart from off-campus reaction. Where the living environment is concerned, the first concern must be
for the living.

The Sword Of Damocles

Although the issue has not yet broken through the surface of the Davidson political consciousness, the whole question of representation
and student government is hanging above our collective heads like Damocles’ sword. In the most recent case concerning representation in
the student Senate, officials (SGA President Danny Clodfelter and Senior Class President Bill Lear) skillfully handled a request for representation
from coed residents of the newest “dorm,” Grey House. In essence, Clodfelter and Lear decided for constitutional reasons that the
coeds could not be given a senate seat. However, the elections officials promised the women that, if some viable alternative
could be found, it would be activated immediately.

Such requests for representation in the legislative process of the SGA cannot always be so easily denied, for such refusals
will not always be so graciously accepted. Already there are grumblings from the off-campus students and married students, who because
of the student constitution are afforded no senate seats. Both groups are making valuable contributions to Davidson in other areas
of student activity, and feel they deserve recognition and a voice in student governing matters. On the Union Board, for
example, a married couple is handling the artist series. Former columnists for THE DAVIDSONIAN have lived off-campus but have offered
an interesting written perspective for other students. Presently one off-campus columnist also heads up an important function for the Union
Board at the time. Do any of these people seem unworthy of representation? Furthermore, with the new emphasis on cooperation
and interrelation between the various elements of the college community, it would make sense to have faculty, administrative, and maintenance
representation as well.

We suggest that a reevaluation of the present policy of representation in student government is drastically necessary. This will involve
time, effort, and energy from all involved in student government and student life, but the results should be well worth
it. It is good to hear that Clodfelter has already started the necessary procedures for such a change.

‘Do-Goodism In The Streets’: Are Classrooms Any Better?

What is worth learning? What environment is the most conducive to learning? How is learning accomplished in the ideal learning
environment? Such questions as these are important when evaluating experiential learning. Just how does one determine the validity of service
activities as an alternative to classroom learning? Certainly not by passing off such activities as “do-goodism in the streets” as
Dr. Abram has done. While his intent may have been good, his slurring of the issue aroused the fear that
he too considered students second-class citizens. The feeling that students do not know what is best for them is still
inherent in our educational system.

Later on in his speech Dr. Abram said that education must be able to “match” the man. Should not the
process by which a man is educated also be made to “match”? Surely learning by experience is as valuable to
some as spending five days a week in classrooms. Students today are tired of the education built for in-breeding into
an already sick society. It is an education of the past, geared for the picture. Education is not aware of
the present. If a man must be certified of knowledge, why cannot he be certified in knowledge of what is
around him; the knowledge of oppression, and suppression of ghettos, of hunger, of hate and love.

The cry for relevance from students is not just because the present educational system is strangling them. The reason for
the boredom is that students are required to be academicians, not human beings. Students are to void themselves from feeling
and apply themselves objectively to the task at hand. This dehumanization of education is the fault of the professor who
cannot make his subject come alive for the student. And the professor is really not to blame,For he was trained
in the methodology of the classroom, not the methodology of learning. Experiential learning is a way to return the feeling
to education. It is a way for the student to be human by being involved with his fellow man. It
gives him an opportunity to feel what it is like to live in a ghetto. Dr. Abram has placed learning
by experience second on the list. It should be first. Classroom learning is a dead end for most. The key
to success in a classroom is the professor, and there are few professors left who really love their subject and
can convey this excitement of experience to students. Students must leave the classroom, especially in the social sciences. They must
look for their learning experiences in the world around them. They should, however, supplement their experience with the reading of
pertinent material. The purpose of the supplemental reading is to help the student to understand better his experience. This is
where the teacher comes in. Of course, it would be nice if the professor had some actual experience in the
field, such as living in the ghetto. Unfortunately, few have such experiences. The purpose of experiential learning is to help
the student find out who he is. It gives him an opportunity to act on an interpersonal level, not on
a servant-to-master level.

LETTER

College is not the place where the student only gains more knowledge. It must be the place where he can
sort through what he has learned and determine what is valid for him. College must not be a refuge from
the world, which it is now. Rather, it must be a stepping stone toward giving the student the ability to
live effectively and in harmony with his fellow man in the world community.

Abram’s Speech Lacks Solutions

To The Editor:

My reaction to Morris Abram's speech at the convocation last Wednesday is distinctly ambivalent. On the one hand, I cannot
help but applaud the direct and pertinent manner in which his remarks faced up to the problems of higher education.
He said many things that badly needed saying. How refreshing it is to hear a man in Abram's position say
that the primary purposes of academic institutions must be academic: that schools are creating a new class consciousness; that many,
if not most, college graduates have an education of discouraging superficiality; that we must evaluate formal education by the ability
and desire to learn which it produces after it is terminated; that many students are being “shoehorned by social pressure
into an education which does not fit;” and that discipline and diligence are a prerequisite to many kinds of learning.

Yet upon reflection, I wonder if Dr. Abram went far enough with his criticisms. Far more questions were raised than
answered. He recognizes that we are addicted to schools. (Not only have attendance figures mushroomed; I recently read that at
the present rate, life expectancy and school-leaving age will intersect within a decade!) And he discusses the meaning of the
“mania for higher education.” But what does this imply about our society? Aren't we making school an all-encompassing initiation rite?
Haven't the pressures of society created in the modern university an institution which is altogether different in nature and role
from any previous institution of learning?

In the developed countries, education has come to be conceived of as a product which is packaged and delivered solely
by schools. This has been so only a very short time in the history of western education. We live in
a society in which class is determined not so firmly by family or service as by college degree and earnings.
Moreover, earnings, at least in initial employment, are related to college degree rather than the ability of the applicant. This
is obviously true, but why has it come to be true? What does it imply about the schooling-oriented mentality of
our society?

Dr. Abram recognizes the problems of the university but neglects the rest of the schooling process of which it is
a part. Students spend 12-14 of the most formative years in school before they ever enter college, though college administrations
and faculties seem unaware of this fact. All the evidence I have seen seems to indicate that the most important
period is not the college years.

Dr. Abram spoke with approval of “compelling” students to learn. Now discipline and hard work are vital for learning; indeed,
drill and memorization can be invaluable for some kinds of learning. But these methods can only be successful when combined
with an honest, disinterested desire to learn. The theory that learning can be compelled is itself responsible for the flood
of basically unmotivated students which has led to so many problems.

Formal education at all levels is presently under great critical fire, but most of the criticism is far too shortsighted
in considering the implications and causes of the current crisis. The “expectation gap,” the highly manipulative corporation or agency which
creates an ever-increasing demand for its own goods and services, conspicuous and ever-increasing consumption, the myth of progress—there are many
indications that these diseases of our civilization are inherent in the structure of our schools, the reproductive organs of society.

As I have tried to show, Morris Abram did not go far beyond an examination of symptoms in his speech
last Wednesday morning. Nevertheless, the principal criticisms which he offered form a strong and cogent challenge for genuine—as opposed to
cosmetic—reform. This reform must radically change the present role of schools in society if they are ever to be effective
educationally. They must serve not society, but the individual. Then perhaps schools at all levels may once again be institutions
which serve those who wish to come together for the sake of learning.

Jon Jewett ‘72
Davidson College
