Page Eight January 22, 1971

SC Leading ‘Cats

(Staff Photo by Davidson)

FLATTENED - Eric Minkin destroys a St. Joe defender as Joe Sutter watches in amazement.

Kittens In Benefit Against UNCC

A benefit game is on tap tomorrow night as Davidson's freshman basketball squad travels to Concord to meet the UNCC freshmen. The charity game is being played for the Concord Boys Club with tip-off scheduled for 8:00 p.m. Tickets will be on sale in Johnston Gym as late as this afternoon and can also be purchased at the door. Admission is $2.00.

The Wildkittens will carry a 6-2 record against UNCC who post a 6-1 worksheet. The ’Kittens are fresh from a victory over East Carolina. The freshmen will be led by John Falconi who carries a hefty 25.1 average into the contest. Falconi is followed in scoring by T. J. Pecorak and Mike Sorrentino who own 15.4 and 14.4 averages respectively.

Saturday's contest offers a good chance to see the freshmen as the varsity will be on the road against Princeton. It is also only a 20-minute drive from campus.

Swimmers Open At J.C. Smith

By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

The Davidson swimming team, with only one senior letterman, faces the grave problem of inexperience as it prepares to open the season Tuesday at Johnson C. Smith. Head coach Tom Stevens, in his sixth year, and new assistant coach Ted Severn are hoping for a .500 season.

Stevens commented that the schedule included several tough teams, including V.M.I., Clemson, and William and Mary. “As our freshmen get experience, we should get better and better,” he stated.

Jim Newton, the returning senior letterman and holder of the school records in the fifty and one-hundred meter freestyle, has been chosen captain of this year’s squad. Several other members who should be worth watching include Mait Browning in the breaststroke, Scott Davidson and John Fawcett in the freestyle, Raymond Grubb in the fly, Jack Hobbs in the backstroke, and Jeff Loughridge in the distance freestyle.

“We also have two of the best potential divers I have ever had at Davidson,” Stevens remarked. He is looking for high achievement from freshmen Eric Vernon and John Knox. Also, Stevens stated that a new diving stand has been installed in the past few weeks.

By JOE EARLE
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcats are riding on top of the Southern Conference after their 60-52 win over East Carolina last Tuesday. The conference race is the closest in recent years, with six teams fighting for the top position.

Davidson holds the number one position with a 4-1 record. Close behind are Furman, East Carolina, The Citadel, William and Mary, all with 3-2 season totals. Coach Terry Holland pointed out the importance of holding the number one position until the conference playoffs.

There are only seven teams in the conference, so for the first time the conference leader will receive a bye in the first round of the tournament. The first-ranked team will only play two playoff games instead of the usual three.

“We cannot afford to lose another game," Holland said, "because we play the conference minimum, ten games, and any one of the second-place teams could edge us out of first place by winning the remainder of their conference games.”

The Wildcats will risk their 8-5 season record tomorrow night at Princeton. “Princeton has one of the toughest teams we will meet this year,” Holland said, “they are young, mostly sophomores like us, but they have two outstanding guards.”

The Tigers are led by guard Brian Taylor, a 6'3" sophomore with a 24 points a game average. Holland called him “a sophomore Charlie Scott” due to his excellent shooting and rebounding. Holland forecasts more problems in defending against the Tigers, because they have a second strong guard in Ted Manakas."We will have to pressure the guards and force the ball to the baseline, which is to their advantage," Holland said. The Princeton front line is tall, headed by senior Bill Sickler and 6'8" sophomore All-American, Bill Drake. Holland said he felt the Wildcats handled the East Carolina team very well. During the last minutes of the game, Davidson kept control of the ball and slowed the game down. East Carolina came within one point of the 'Cats, but lost the momentum when Steve Kirley sank a layup with 29 seconds remaining. Kirley and Joe Sutter led the scoring in the East Carolina game with 15 points apiece. Duncan Postma followed with 13. Bryan Adrian leads the overall season scoring with an 18-point average for the three games he has played. Holland said that no forecast could be made on when Adrian could return to the lineup. "Although he is hitting about 20 points a game, he has not fully recovered and he’s playing poor defense," Holland said. Holland feels that Eric Minkin is not playing up to his potential either. "At the first of the year I would have said that Minkin would be all-conference and score 20 points a game," he said, "but his injury has slowed him down more than we had anticipated." Minkin has averaged 6.8 points a game and 6.8 rebounds. Sophomore Joe Sutter holds the second scoring honors with 16.2 points a game. Holland said that he was very pleased with Sutter’s playing. Although he said Sutter often played spotty, Holland cited him as one of the Wildcats' strengths. Another sophomore Holland praised was Gordon Graham. "Graham is an excellent shooter," he stated, "and he has worked very hard on defense and ball handling, which were his weaknesses." Holland also commended the playing of Billy Pierce. "Even though he scored only one point in the East Carolina game, I feel he played very well," Holland said. "We had to maintain control of the ball during the last minutes and Pierce handled himself very well."

Wildcat Club Falls Short

Although the Wildcat Club's drive for raising funds for football scholarships fell short, the director of the fund drive, Steve Heckard, is hopeful that the trustees will make up the difference in their spring meeting. The anticipated sum to defray scholarships was set at $150,000. The drive, which ended on December 31, netted only $80,657. "I don’t know for sure what will be done since we didn't reach our goal," said Heckard. "I think it will be recommended that the college make up the difference because of the short time we had." Heckard was very pleased with the results. "Considering the fact the drive didn’t get under way until late August, I think we had a real good response." Heckard explained that Coach Fagg will go ahead with his recruiting for next year on the premise the college will make up the difference. He also added the Wildcat Athletic Fund Drive will be continued this year to raise scholarship money for the following year.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA OPEN 9-8
The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:
Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer—North Carolina's nationally recognized Coastal Boys’ and Girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. 24th year. Camps feature sailing and seamanship plus all usual camping activities. Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who are LOOKING FOR MORE than “just another summer job.” Openings for NURSES (RN). June 9 - August 20. We seek highly qualified (ability to instruct in one phase of camp's program), return good salaries, board and lodging, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer—P. O. Box 10976—Raleigh, North Carolina, 27605. Quick answer upon receipt of application.