Page Six

POPP Ray Sweatenburg April 16, 1971

UP AND OVER (Staff photo by Doty) clears a high hurdle in the Wake Forest Meet.

Whittle Promises ‘Good’ Meet

By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

Saturday's 13th annual Davidson Relays promise to be “one of the most interesting meets we've ever had,” according to meet director Heath Whittle.

“It should be a really good meet,” said Whittle. “There are more teams on an even par with each other than ever before.”

Eighteen schools are scheduled to participate in the relays. Whittle listed West Georgia College, Pembroke State University, Appalachian State, Western Carolina, and High Point College teams slated to appear Saturday.

“We ran Pembroke earlier in the season, and they beat us pretty badly,” said Whittle. “Offhand, I'd say it was a toss-up between Pembroke, Western Carolina, and West Georgia for the meet championship,” he said. West Georgia and Western Carolina are both former winners of the relays.

Davidson has won its own meet six times, the last championship coming in 1968. Whittle said that an injury to relay man Tommy Richardson will probably prevent the Wildcats from picking up their seventh title. “Tommy pulled a muscle Wednesday and will be out for the season,” said Whittle. “We were counting on him to help us in three events.”

Willits Leads ’Cats With Two Homers

By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

It's not often one finds a shortstop leading a team in home runs. However, Jack Willits has changed that. Willits leads the squad with two of its seven homers. Those seven are seven more than the team hit last season.

“I've really been hitting the ball well,” commented the slim, 170-pound Willits, “though I'd be satisfied if a few more dropped in for hits.” The small difference of one or two hits would be enough to propel him over the .300 mark. However, with the team hitting over .260, those hits have not been missed.

Coach Tom Stevens cited Willits as “a good all-around player, always relaxed and cool, and probably the fastest man on the squad.”

“The hardest play to make is going back deep into the hole, so speed, range, and a strong arm are quite important,” Willits said.

A shortstop, besides being in an action position, also has many responsibilities. As Willits explained, some of these are “calling pop-ups on the left side of the infield, covering second base on attempted steals, taking cut-off throws from the outfield, and backing up many plays.”

The ’Cats are currently leading the conference with a 5-1 record, 11-7 overall. “The difference this year is desire and attitude,” Willits believes, as the team lost very few players last year. Coach Stevens believes the team will win the conference if the ’Cats pitching comes through.

The team has a very important doubleheader at Furman today. They took a very important doubleheader last Saturday over The Citadel, but Tuesday they were defeated by Guilford 17-13, as the pitchers walked 10 men. The Guilford loss raised the team E.R.A. almost a full run per game to 3.00.

Wildcat pitcher Rick Pipan presently has the lowest E.R.A. in the Southern Conference with 0.73. Next Tuesday the team will meet Guilford here and Thursday they will travel to Belmont Abbey.events: the 440 relay, the 880 relay, and the sprint medley.” “We had a good chance before Tommy hurt himself, but now I don’t know.” The Wildcats will still have help in the field events, however, with Ray Swetenburg and Steve Kirley expected to lead efforts in the field. Swetenburg, a junior, is favored in the triple jump. He holds the relay's record of 47'8", which he set last year. Swetenburg will also compete in the high jump. Basketball star Steve Kirley is expected to place in both the shot-put and the discus. David Crumpler is also ranked high among the discus throwers. Whittle also gave Ed Dobbs a “good chance” to do well in the javelin event. Davidson will be entered in all of the seven field events and five of the seven scheduled relay events. The field competition will begin at 12:30 p.m. Saturday, followed by the track events at 2:30. The meet is scheduled to end about 5:00 p.m.

Wildcat Skippers Win First Regatta
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Jimmy Hunter has developed a somewhat unusual method of winning regattas. Hunter, one of the leading skippers for the Davidson sailing team, burns incense in his boat. The smoke from the incense allows him to determine wind direction in light air. “Using smoke is not really original,” he said, “a lot of skippers do, but most use cigarettes.” Hunter said that incense worked better than any other method because the smoke did not rise, but was immediately picked up by the wind. Hunter's method evidently works, for he led the sailors to their first conference victory last week at Georgia Tech. Hunter was low-point skipper for the regatta. Davidson beat out three other schools at the regatta this year, in what Hunter termed “a very close race.” The lead was close throughout the contest between Davidson and Clemson, but one of Clemson's races was disqualified and the ‘Cats took the victory. Hunter skippered in the A division with Mark Leonard crewing and Allen Lundy commodored the B division with Daryl Douglas crewing. Davidson beat out Clemson, Georgia Tech, and the University of Tennessee. The A division sailed “Y-flyers” and the B division “Snipes.” Tomorrow the team will sail at the University of Tennessee. Hunter will likely skipper in the B division in “Flying Jets” and either Lundy or Douglas in the A division in “Thistles.” The “Thistles” will use spinnakers, and it will be the first time Davidson has sailed with them. In the fall regatta, Hunter won the B division in “Flying Jets.”

The Dogwood MOTEL AND RESTAURANT on Highway 21

Introducing underwear that better not wear out. First time ever... a 2-year Guarantee on Munsingwear’s Cotton Kangaroo Shorts and TC-28 Grand-Slam® T-Shirt. If this underwear wears out or shrinks out of fit in two years of normal wear, it will be replaced FREE. And we'll bet you’ve never worn underwear as comfortable as this, either. Kangaroo Shorts and TC-28 Grand-Slam T-Shirt—both knit of pure cotton. Buy a 3-pack. We guarantee it... for two years.

Munsingwear
Grand-Slam Shorts
Sizes 28-46......3 for $4.00
Sizes 34-46......3 for $5.00

John Meck & Son
Mooresville
Our 59th Year