She Davidsonian September 10, 1971 Page Five

Me And My All-American Family
By RUSS MERRITT
Editor-in-Chief

I am the eldest son of the third place All-American family, the second runner-up in the All-American Family Contest. There
you have it. My own personal, deep dark secret, confessed to the Davidson public only out of journalistic integrity, need
for copy, and much arm-twisting by my fellow editor.

Actually, the whole All-American Family experience was not that bad. In fact, there were some very good moments, some very
good people, some very good encounters involved in the 12-day pageant. According to one official, the contest, which has been
successfully established for several years, attracts over 10,000 family applicants across the country each year. The program, “The All-American Family
Search,” is managed by the All-American Family Institute (apparently a group of rich Miami Hebrew-Americans) and is operated along lines
very similar to the Miss America contest. Only we didn't have a bathing suit competition.

Lehigh Acres, a retirement community just outside Fort Myers in Florida, serves as host for the family pageant for the
same reason that Atlantic City keeps the bathing beauties — publicity, which can easily be translated into money. For the
first time, the pageant was televised this year, with most ABC stations across the country picking up the festivities and
making the 90-minute finals available to 86 percent of the nation’s TV viewers. This was, from my perspective, most regrettable.
It has never been my dream to be seen dancing with the Cowsills. Neither, though, were the actual happenings of
the event. I was pleasantly surprised upon our arrival there (after driving through four states in a car with a
bright sign advertising us as “Virginia’s All-American Family”) to find 20 or 30 kids as horrified by their presence and
participation in the pageant as I was. An instant camaraderie was formed, a sort of fellowship of martyrs, and the
environs became somewhat more tolerable.

The competition started almost immediately. Photographers met every family as it drove into the parking lot of the Country Club
Motel, where all 51 (District of Columbia included) families were housed. As we registered, officials and judges sat back in
their chairs, smiling nicely and noting such tangibles as hair length, family bickering, etc. Approximately 539 interviews with each family
soon followed, as the representatives of all 51 areas were paraded before a long list of famous (Dr. Joyce Brothers,
for example) and not-so-famous judges. Each family was tested as to its unity, cooperation, community involvement, individual achievements, and “that
unique quality and spark which distinguishes great families from the very good families.”

Besides the interviews, the families were also judged on their amiability and congeniality with the other participants in the contest,
the cooking of each individual mother (in “the world’s greatest family meal”), and general participation and personality demonstrated during the
pageant. Talent was also a part of the pageant, if not the judging. Since participation in the talent show was
strongly suggested, most mothers climbed onto the stage to sing the likes of “Somewhere” and “The Sound of Music.” This
made for tedious entertainment, since most hadn't sung since the Junior Choristers back in Sunday School. The Massachusetts father (everyone
was known by his state and his position in the family) won first in talent with his impassioned version of
“Impossible Dream.” Personally, I thought the best entertainment of the night came when the son of the South Carolina family
rode his unicycle over the emcee and off the side of the stage into the audience, quite by accident.

The meals were very good; the preparation for the meals was not. Not a single meal went by without the
51 families rising en masse to recite the pledge to the American flag. By lunch of the first day, I
had tired of such recitations; and even the military families were slurring the lines as the pageant drew to a
close. The pageant officials did their best to fill every day with something fun and exciting, without much success. Forums
on drugs and sex, square dancing, and listening to the Cowsills grow monotonous after a while. So, the 21-and-under set
made our own entertainment, consisting of the usual fun sought out by bored and desperate “youth,” as we were labeled.
Because steady boy and girl friends were far behind, new and exciting relationships were formed. Several kids quite naive to
the “ways of the world” (after all, they were members of All-American families), were initially shocked by their peers, but
soon joined the games with the rest of the crowd. In time, the games got to be so monotonous that
I longed for more forums on drugs and sex.

By the time that the final night rolled around, when the TVs started grinding and the various winners were announced,
every participant in the contest was shot, nerves were on edge, and cool heads were rare. One family, realizing it
had no chance to take any of the marbles, read a protest statement at the final meal before the contest.
Another followed by presenting a statement praising the whole pageant. The show started with an introduction of the 51 families
done by the two emcees, Peter Marshall of “Hollywood Squares” and a local Miami personality.Squares’ fame and Anita Bryant of
Florida sunshine notoriety. Then the crowd got tense as Marshall turned to the families, all crushed together on three high
school bleachers, and announced, “the family that you yourselves have picked, the Most Popular Family, from Roanoke, Virginia, the William
Merritts.” Embarrassment was as much in order as gratitude, so I hid from the cameras as we accepted the coveted
trophy. Unfortunately, I couldn't hide minutes later when all the members of the “youth” had to dance on stage with
that All-American family of rock, the Cowsills. Cameras followed my every move as I ducked, turned, and ran from “You
On My Mind.” The worst was yet to come, though. It was only a few seconds later when Anita, after
singing “Do, a Deer” with all the children, announced that among the eight semifinalists was the Virginia All-American family. As
I stood there alone on stage and finally examined the other seven lucky winners, I glanced at the length of
my brother’s hair and smiled as I assured myself that we didn’t have to go any farther in the farce.
And indeed, as the first four finalists were named with bated breath, I almost cheered, until sweet Anita concluded, “And
last, but not least, the Merritt family from Virginia.” I was in a state of disbelief and panic as the
five families were led from the stage into a soundproof booth, which until that night had been a men’s bathroom.
Following another orange juice commercial by Anita, we were led back onstage again one by one to answer the question,
“If you could advise President Nixon on any one thing, what would you tell him?” The family from Oklahoma won
the pageant then and there when the father said he’d tell Nixon to get out of Vietnam as honorably as
possible. For our part, I mumbled something about economic manifestations. So, we finished only third in the contest, second runner-up
to the winners from Oklahoma (and Muskogee at that). But all wasn't lost. After all, I was first runner-up in
the vote of all the kids for “All-American Boy.”

Pinkerton Men Guard At College Registration

To college and university administrators, student registrations are more of a concern than young voter registrations, despite the vast amount
of the latter. For the coming week to ten days, local educational administrators are confronted with a serious security challenge
borne out of a series of 24-hour days of controlled confusion mixed with uncontrolled emotions as old and new students
swarm over their campuses. Add to this the fact that most registrants are carrying tuition money, either in cash or
negotiable notes, and the situation is potentially volatile. It is not unusual for a large university's receipts to total sizeable
sums for tuition, activity fees, textbooks, and such incidentals as locker rentals, student union fees, and so on. The registration
fees desk is usually the last desk in the registration hall. It has been Pinkerton's, Inc. experience that strategically posted
security guards, both male and female, supported by plainclothes personnel are an effective security requirement.

“Students are quite apt to set down a wallet, purse, or other valuables and wander away from it in the
confusion of registrations,” Mr. Willis, Vice President-Security of the nation's oldest and largest security firm said. “It is our job
to look after their interests. While the main concern and security challenge is the amount of cash on hand during
registration,” Mr. Willis said, “Pinkerton’s guards are trained to cope with such other registration situations as control of parking, maintaining
orderly registration lines, first-aid, lost and found, and general building security and control.” He said that guards were on hand
to provide student guidance rather than perform traffic and/or disciplinary control. “A student's first impressions of campus security is vital
to the long-term relationship,” he said. “A little extra effort and courtesy on the part of the security personnel during
registration is helpful and conducive to student compliance with the rules and regulations of the college or university.”

Mr. Willis said that campus bookstores present a special security problem. Citing the small staff of most textbook stores, the
display of books on counters and shelves, and the high cost of books today all create a potentially troublesome security
environment. In addition, there is the ever-present threat of fire. The Pinkerton’s executive recommended that the most successful deterrent is
a proper blend of guard and security devices. “This is especially necessary during the registration period when students are making
their book purchases for the coming term.” Library theft and vandalism also increase as the school year begins. Mr. Willis
mentioned that most campus libraries expect a certain amount of pilferage and damage and have this structured into their budgets.
“However, the critical problem is the protection of irreplaceable manuscripts, reference textbooks, and other research documents.” Modern electronic devices have
contributed significantly to reducing library losses. The Pinkerton’s executive referred to the use of electronic transmitter bugs inserted into book
covers that are detected electronically—“bugging the book,” you might say. Pinkerton’s, Inc. with headquarters in New York City and offices
in 95 cities throughout the country has security contracts with hundreds of schools of higher learning.
