Page Ten
December 10, 1971

Friday, December 10
Saturday, December 11
All Day
Sunday, December 12
Monday, December 13
Tuesday, December 14
9 a.m. Extended Studies Registration
12 p.m. Lunch
Wednesday, December 15
Thursday, December 16
All Day
Friday, December 17. Akron Again
9:46 p.m. Informal Orgy

A bill of fare described as “the best ever” by Union Social Chairman Duff Bruce promises excitement for Davidson’s Midwinters celebration. Friday night of the weekend the union will hold a spaghetti supper, with real Italian table cloths. The Friday entertainment will include several showings of “Groove Tube” which comes highly regarded by Union.

Sperm Banking Comes To Davidson

After a very satisfying drive last year, the Charlotte Sperm Bank will return to Davidson College again this week in hopes of surpassing last year’s record 1500 vials. Jack Offenheimer, coordinator for the organization, said that events will take place in Chamber Dining Hall between the hours of 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. If Davidson again surpasses the 1000 vial goal, the school will be qualified for the group sperm plan which provides free sperm protection in case of sudden increases in radioactivity, castration, or big weekend exhaustion.

“I hope many of the same guys as last year come again,” Offenheimer said. “Frankly, we were a little overwhelmed at the response we received last year. But I guess being isolated the way you are... well, you know what I mean.” Offenheimer’s only request is that the students remain orderly while waiting in line. Last year’s pushing and shoving, sticking and poking will not be tolerated. “It’s understandable that boys would get a little overexcited at such times, and maybe a little over eager,” he said. “But such lack of self-control puts us in a very sticky situation with everyone concerned.”

Upcoming Events:
8 p.m. Film: Return of Lassie
3:30 a.m. Lecture: Joseph Drake
7:30 p.m. Holy Sacrifice of the Vestal Virgins
7 p.m. Literary Society Meeting
8 p.m. Night with Sherry Drinkers
8 p.m. Fine Film: Godzilla Eats Akron
9 a.m. Discussion: What Does It Mean?
8 p.m. Fine Film: Godzilla Eats College Union; Martin Science

“Best Ever” Midwinters Set

Morrison Room
Davidson College Presbyterian Church
Second Annual Secular Music Convocation
8:30 p.m. Basketball: Davidson
11:16 p.m. Open End: Freshman Basketball with Duncan Postma
Johnston Gym
Union Bar
11 a.m. Church Worship
Church or synagogue of your choice
1 p.m. Professional Football
Union Bar
Union Lobby
Chambers Porch
Reserve Book Room
College Union
Phi or Eu Hall
Carolina Inn
Love Auditorium
Chaplain’s Office
Love Auditorium

President Lester Strong. The juke box will also be on free play for the night. Bruce also indicated that C. Shaw Smith will perform his world-renowned magic act. “It’s great to see that Shaw will be back on the Davidson stage. Everyone has really loved it in the past.”

The weekend will mark Davidson’s first big weekend after the acquisition of the union's beer permit. Saturday morning the northwestern Ohio chapter of the alumni association, chaired by Mac McLaughlin of Oregon, Ohio, will hold a Coke and chips party for Davidson seniors. Tickets for the reception, to be held in the newly refurbished Carolina Inn, will be available in the Dean of Student's office or from Zack Long. The alumni association will hold a barbeque luncheon Saturday in Johnston Gym prior to the IMAC all-star game.

The Saturday Concert features the Flaming Nurdito Brothers, a fast-rising young group from Choctawatchee, Fla. All three members of the group are former Green Berets. Bruce indicated that the group synthesizes elements from several of the most successful groups in recent Davidson concerts. “They’re a bit like Ma-Ho-Pin, they can do the slide for life, but...”In Love Auditorium they will stick to rappelling. They have to be the best steel.

Fraternity Awards Brinkley ‘Responsible Citizen’ Prize

Freshman scholastic fraternity, Phi Eta Sigma, long recognized as a powerful force on campus, has bestowed its coveted Responsible Citizen award for this year to Alan B. Brinkley, professor of philosophy. Buzz Fly, president of the fraternity, presented Brinkley with a key to the library as well as a gold-plated name stamp, which the philosophy professor symbolically used to check out 30 volumes of the Indian Census to read that night after the ceremony.

Brinkley, affectionately known as the “bearded wonder” by certain members of the administration, is primarily noted for his constitutional documents which responsibly champion the rights of the faculty, as well as for his letters to THE DAVIDSONIAN which castigated dull-witted editors for their journalistic irresponsibility.

Drum band to hit Davidson since the Trinidad Tripoli Esso Steel Drum Band was here last spring. Again this year the idea of big weekends has been challenged by several Davidson students who would like to see the social program spread out over the course of the term, with less emphasis on the “one big bash.”

DAVIDSONIAN columnist Cecil Burney has flatly stated that he will not attend any of the activities presently planned. “I'd rather listen to a lecture about Immanuel Kant than the stuff we have this weekend. It's really the principle of the thing though,” Burney said.

Although indicating that he would not be on campus himself that weekend, Bruce said, “We really anticipate a good turnout. This is top-level entertainment that we've lined up.” Both Strong and Bruce did say that the weekend selected may hurt attendance for Midwinters. “At the last minute with all the bookings and everything it just seemed to be the weekend that worked out. It is unfortunate that it has to fall in the middle of the examination period.

“We suspect that the flies may be in the library, but we don’t want to overlook them either. That’s why we're having the dance in the Davidsoniana Room, Friday night.”

Consequently, it was only fitting that Brinkley receive this award. Brinkley’s latest triumph for the cause of responsibility was the statement he recently presented to the faculty, in which after observation that the faculty was not asked for its opinion on the trustee by-laws, Brinkley astounded the faculty by declaring that the trustees no longer had confidence in the faculty. Brinkley then recommended such responsible solutions as the creation of a Confidence Committee, the dissolution of rules for student conduct, and faculty inaction in naming governance committee representatives — a recommendation not inconsistent with the general character of that body.

Brinkley, in his characteristically responsible manner, stated, “What the faculty wants is a system of sharing of power in which the faculty makes all the decisions or as Edmund Burke said ‘The march of the human mind is slow.’”

Twas three weeks before Christmas
And all over the town,
Everyone was stirring and running around.
When down on the main drag
There arose such a steal.
I ran down to look into the deal.
And there sitting back off the street,
Was a big old house looking merry and neat.
Up the walk I went, to the steps to mount,
And opened the door to a 10 percent discount.
Into the crowd I did mingle
And after buying, our pockets still jingle.
Then home I flew with not a moment to lose,
To phone all my friends and give them the news.
To Shop The Red Hanger Clothing Store
And receive help with our bargains and gifts galore.

THE RED HANGER
OPEN MON. - FRI TILL 7:30 TILL CHRISTMAS

When you're ready to play Santa...
Come to The Village Store
Davidson, N. C.
We have gifts for everyone
Free wrap service
Phone 892-7561