Page Two March 26, 1971 The Davidsonian

Coble Blasts Poor Progress Of Open Faculty Proposals

The fate of recent student-led movements to open faculty meetings has apparently been left in the hands of the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC), according to former SGA president Ran Coble.

Coble recently appeared with senior James Trussell before the faculty to submit two proposals for open faculty meetings. According to Coble, the faculty, “after 20 minutes of discussion on the state of affairs in Denmark and a half hour of discussion on our proposals, then found their out, their excuse,” and referred the proposals to the FEC for further study.

Since then, the FEC has met and acted upon the proposals for open faculty meetings, referring them to a subcommittee. The subcommittee consists of Dr. Frank L. Bliss, Dr. Alexander J. McKelway, Dr. John D. Kelton, SGA president Danny Clodfelter, SGA vice-president Bill Alexander, and class presidents Bill Lear, Mike Creasman, and Bill Ralston.

Coble has admitted to being very bitter about the faculty’s response to student overtures for open faculty meetings. “I'm fed up with the faculty’s inaction and lack of response, and I just don’t care what happens now. As far as I’m concerned they are going to do nothing.”

Administration members, however, have claimed that the situation is not at all as dark as some students think. College president Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said that “the faculty for the most part has an openness to the consideration of this thing,” referring to opening faculty meetings. “There has not yet been any debate as such because the faculty is still studying it and trying to work out answers to practical questions.”

Spencer, chairman of the FEC, said that several proposals have been given to the faculty and that the faculty has requested the FEC to study them and to report back to the faculty with specific recommendations. Also, Spencer said that the faculty has reaffirmed its decision to set up more effective communications with students.

According to Spencer, the main questions that the faculty has in the matter of open meetings concern affairs that are exclusively faculty matters or matters involving confidentiality. Vice-president for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, also a member of the FEC, said, “I am sympathetic to the sharing of power. I want representation on all levels, and therefore I’m not opposed to students attending faculty meetings.”

Bevan emphasized that “a representation of students can be an important input in faculty meetings. I'm speaking of representatives, not delegates. The student representative idea is great. The input can be very pertinent.”

Assistant To Cornell

By WINDY MARCH
Staff Writer

Davidson has hired a director of development, as assistant to C. David Cornell, vice-president in charge of finance and development. He is Donald L. Winston. Since 1967, he has been associate director of financial development at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington. He is 35 years old and has three children. Before he came to Whitman, he held a similar post at Pomona College in Claremont, California.

In announcing the appointment, Cornell described Winston as “very well qualified to put new life into our fund-raising program and to develop new approaches to individual and annual giving, deferred giving, which includes annuities and bequests, and corporation and foundation gifts.”

At Pomona and Whitman, Winston worked largely with corporate and foundation financial relations, and on funding for specific academic projects. He will probably continue to do the same sort of work here.

Associate Editors:
RICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Sports Editor:
JOE BARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

Copy Editors:
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Davidsonian Staff

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Ass't Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS
DARYL WILLIAMS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
ROGER MANLEY
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
BOB STRAND

Contributors this week:
David Wells, Doug Haynes, Dave Tierney, Charlie Terpell, and Eric Vernon.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.In founding academic projects, Winston said in a phone interview, he will work mainly with faculty members but would like to involve students as well. However, he did not as yet know of any specific projects or financial arrangements with which he would deal. “At first,” he said, “We will be feeling our way. We need to understand the academic policies and the dictates of faculty needs, and then attempt to fund them.”

During the conversation, Winston cited the Carnegie Commission report on the financial status of American colleges and universities, to the effect that one major cause of the financial problems of institutions of higher education is simply a lack of management and development personnel. He now sees in the College Un Appointed a trend in the opposite direction.

“Any college worth anything,” he said, “now has a full development staff. Times are hard for colleges today, and the schools that are solvent are usually the ones that have effective development staffs.” Winston will be in Davidson by about the middle of May, he said. He will then send for his family and begin work in his position. Concerning the financial future of colleges like Davidson, Winston said his predictions were “optimistic.” New tax laws governing foundations will help the colleges, he believes, along with the general trend toward more perceptive financial development and planning.

Belmont Abbey To Host Writers Consortium

The first Annual Carolina Writers and Readers Conference of the Charlotte Area Educational Consortium will take place at Belmont Abbey College on April 14. The idea behind the event is simple: students and faculty from the participating schools submit manuscripts to the conference. Then they discuss their work with other participants and with professional writers and publishers from the Charlotte area. Participating schools are Belmont Abbey, Davidson, Johnson C. Smith, Queens, Sacred Heart, UNC-C, and Wingate.

The Miscellany is offering a prize covering the $35 entry fees to the student submitting the best manuscript to someone in the English Department by noon Friday. The English Department will pay the $10 manuscript fee for any student who wishes to submit material to the conference. Those attending the conference will have panel discussions and group discussions of the manuscripts submitted.

APO BOOK EXCHANGE

Tyler Downing and Gerry Bello — their wares on.

Outside Perspective
By ALEC HOON
News Editor

The U.S. Government has begun the manufacture of two million marijuana cigarettes to be used in laboratory experiments to see whether the smoking of large quantities of pot can lead to cancer. These studies, the first of their kind, will be done on mice and hamsters, using marijuana confiscated by the U.S. Board of Customs.

In an effort to allow 18-year-olds to vote in the elections next year, a citizens’ lobby, “Common Cause,” has announced that it will appeal to all state legislatures to quickly ratify a constitutional amendment to enfranchise this new voting segment. To become effective, 38 states must ratify the amendment.

Over 200 people completed a 25-mile hike in a “Walk Against Hunger,” sponsored by the Young World Development recently in Chapel Hill according to The Daily Tar Heel. Each participant was paid a certain amount of money for each mile he walked by one or more sponsors who backed him. The money raised, at least $12,000, will be donated to various charities, including 15 percent to the National Foundation For The Fight Against Hunger.

There have been several developments in recent weeks concerning the reaction of college campus leaders to the People’s Peace Treaty. At Hampton-Sidney, the newspaper editor has refused to sign the treaty and came out editorially against it, as did the editor at St. Joseph's of Indiana. Both the president of the student body and the editor at William and Mary have signed the treaty. According to The Flat Hat, the student newspaper, the treaty will soon be made available to the student body. At Chapel Hill, the editor of the UNC Daily Tar Heel signed the treaty and came out in favor of it on the editorial page. The president of the student body also signed it. Both the student editor and the SGA president of West Virginia University have signed, but the student legislature has refused to ratify the treaty.