Millet Foresees Change From Patriarchal Society

AN ANALYSIS By RUSS MERRITT Co-Editor-In-Chief

It all seemed incongruous. Many of the women in the audience had brought along their boyfriends and pin-mates. A large
contingent of Davidson (and therefore, male) students was scattered throughout the crowd. At least one SAE jacket was in evidence.
And in the wings of the stage, preparing to speak to the assemblage, was Kate Millet, one of the most
militant and renowned advocates of the women's liberation movement.

The setting was the Queens’ Symposium, which was held Monday and Tuesday on the Queens College campus. The symposium, entitled
“The American Woman: Feminism-Femininity,” featured Millet, the author of the best-seller “Sexual Politics,” and Elizabeth Koontz, director of the Women's
Bureau of the U.S. Department of Labor.

At first, it appeared that members of the audience were confused as to what their roles and relationships should be.
The males didn't know whether or not they should bother to open the door to the auditorium for the women,
and the females couldn't quite decide if it would be appropriate to call some of the men present “male chauvinist
pigs.”

The appearance of Ms. Millet on the stage, however, seemed to dissipate everyone’s tensions. For the woman that many had
expected to be a bitter, violent, and aggressive feminist turned out to be a very warm, gentle, and enlightening human.

“We are in the midst of a revolution, the sexual revolution,” she began. “This sexual revolution is primarily a profound
change in the status of the sexes in relation to each other. We presently exist in a patriarchal society,” she
continued, “in which every avenue of power is controlled by men, and men alone. To change this situation of male
dominion and female subjugation and to reach a true point of egalitarian sharing would be profoundly revolutionary.” Yet this, she
said, is the goal of the women's lib movement.

“Actually, the movement for women's liberation involves the liberation of men as well,” Ms. Millet explained. “For men are as
oppressed by the social demands of our sexist society as women are. Neither males nor females are allowed to exhibit
personality traits normally reserved for the opposite sex without being in some way penalized.”

Church

Theologically, the Church of the West seems to be in a “state of relative helplessness,” for few theologians today have
as many answers as they do questions. That is the opinion, at least, of Dr. Dietrich Ritschl, the first legitimate
international theologian to visit Davidson in several years.

Ritschl, who is presently on the theology faculty at Mainz University in Germany, has been a professor at Austin and
Pittsburgh Theological Seminaries as well. Speaking to an informal gathering of over 40 people Monday night, Ritschl said that he
has a love for America, but that his “emotional and psychic contact with this country has been disturbed” due to
the war in Vietnam.

The theologian said that he still had guilt feelings over being a German because of “the great injustice that Germany
has done to others” in the past. “And now I find myself associated with another country (the United States) which
causes me to have guilt feelings.”

Shifting to a discussion of the state of theology in the world today, Ritschl said that theologians are asking questions
and confronting problems which are involved with central issues, not those at the periphery. “The church is facing the problem
of reconciling its historical, exegetical activity with the whole complex of creedal affirmations and confessional statements, or ethics,” Ritschl said.

Because of historical, linguistic, political, and cultural barriers, “the Church is divided all over the world. However, the fragmentation of
the Church has produced some new areas of contact and confidence, and so has had a positive side-effect.”

Ritschl said that he felt “Christians actually are a very small crowd in this world, and when the going gets
tough it will become even smaller. However, this group will be much more alive. I think many today would not
really fight forwhat their Protestant fathers fought for," Ritschl contended. "Yet in 20 years, things may be very different."

One member of the audience made the observation that Ms. Millet sounded a lot like Marx or Engels must have
sounded many years ago, for much of her feminist theory revolved around her basic assumption that we are involved in
a class struggle. And in her opinion, these classes are determined by sex. Thus, she contended, "upheaval at the very
roots of our lives, coming in the form of challenge and final rejection of the roles of masculinity and femininity
and the methods of inculcation into the young." This is essentially the revolution, she concluded.

By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

Lester Strong, recently elected President of the College Union, said that he is "greatly impressed with the group I'll be
working with in the coming year." He expressed his hope that the year to come will be "a banner year
for Davidson College." Asked whether the traditional three big social weekends will be eliminated next year, Strong said they would
not because "students like big weekends so they can have dates down. We may, however, spread out social activities over
more weekends so that something could be going on every weekend. Homecoming would probably remain a major social event in
any case."

Duff Bruce, chairman of the Union Social Council, will be in charge of bookings for the Hungry I, the Union
Coffee House, and this year’s Spring Frolics. Strong, who appoints the members of the Union Board, mentioned very significant changes
which he plans to make in the personnel of the board. The first change will be the appointment of Wally
Kernodle as chairman of the Co-Curricular Council. He will be responsible for "coordinating educational activities and integrating educational activities into
social contexts." Kernodle will manage the lunch film series and the art rentals, and he will also organize symposiums on
subjects of interest to students. He will also work closely with the Fine Films Series, which is represented on the
Co-Curricular Council. Kernodle will appoint the other members of the Co-Curricular Council.

The second innovation will be the nomination of Ray Mendenhall to head the Open End program. Strong expressed the hope
that there can be an Open End every week, including one Open End a month which the students can use
as a platform for their own program. The conscientious objectors meeting of last spring was pointed out as an example.

The third appointment will be Howard Daniel as Treasurer of the Union Board. Strong said that Daniel's work will touch
on matters outside finance. He praised Daniel’s experience and said, "I hope to draw on his experience in the coming
year."

The Hungry I program will be under Howard Ramagli, who according to Strong has "new ideas for the Hungry I"
and will be "very effective in this capacity." A freshman liaison officer will also be named to help the Union
understand the needs of freshmen. This new post will probably go to John Porter.

Ritschl said that the "task of the Christian is distinct from that of another. He is involved in doing, which
is also true of many non-Christians. The Christian also prays and worships, which shapes and influences his doing and sets
him apart from non-Christians." Ritschl said that a "theology of hope seems to be the most fruitful and appropriate way
of expressing the relationship between the actual ongoing work of the Church and Him who the Church chooses to call
Lord." In his concluding remarks, Ritschl said that it is "exciting to be alive in these times, and men should
welcome the challenge. Christians in these days should serve both as brakes and in a catalytic function."

Page Three

FEMINISM
Kate Millet expounds on Women’s Lib at Queens’ Symposium.

Strong Announces Changes

OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY
Hub 4 PANTS EAST
1522 East Fourth St.
"largest selection of flares, jeans, bell-bottoms in Charlotte"
Owned & Operated by people who know what you want.
