Page Fight

December 10, 1971

The Davidsonian

PSYCHOLOGICAL SWIMMING
Sandy May captains the latest addition to IMAC competition.

Coeds Field Swim
Favored In IMAC

Following the lead of the Student Senate, the IMAC has announced that teams from Grey House will be allowed to compete in all sports, beginning with the intramural swim meet.

According to the girls’ team captain Sandy May, several of the coeds have swimming experience. Marie Ferrara, Bobby Blackwood, and Cathy Cross swam competitively in YMCA leagues and promise to make quite a splash in the competition.

In a phone conversation last night, May commented: “We are going out to win. I fully expect that we'll be in the thick of the fight.”

The girls plan to wear bikinis, as “psychological warfare,” according to May.

The man to watch in the swim meet is freshman Randy Roberts, of Van Nuys, Calif. Roberts was a standout performer in high school, setting age-group records in the individual medley, 100-yard butterfly, and 200-yard backstroke events. He'll be swimming for Sentelle I, and makes them a favorite.

Asked why he turned down twenty-five college scholarship offers and why he chose not to swim for the varsity here, Roberts said, “I just got tired of competitive swimming. You burn out so quickly, and I’m really sick of practice.”

IMAC basketball begins in January, and what appears to be a corker of a season is shaping up.

A host of changes have been made in the format. There are thirty-six teams, and there will be six divisions. The winner of each division, plus the two best second-place teams, will go into a double-elimination tournament to decide the IMAC champion.

Other changes include the addition of a faculty team. This should be one of the top teams in the league, featuring Terry Holland, Jim Larranaga, Duncan Postma, and Bo Brickels. Sterling Martin rounds out the line-up.

The Independents loom as a real threat in the IMAC race. The addition of 6'10" transfer Al Jenkins has given them perhaps the league's premier big man.

Recently the governance council ruled that the Delts should forfeit all their flickerball games for using an ineligible player. Five-year man Jim Wright was allowed to play, and this is a strict violation of IMAC rules.

Saints To Come To Davidson;
Contract Ends Subsidy Woes

Davidson’s problems with subsidized football may be over.

According to Tom Scott, director of athletics at Davidson, the athletic department has signed a contract with the New Orleans Saints that should cover the costs of scholarships.

The Saints will use Davidson’s facilities for off-season practice in the spring and summer months.

In return for the use of these facilities, the Saints have agreed to pay the college $150,000.

This money is to be earmarked for football scholarships.

This figure meets the proposed need of the football team for scholarship money and will cover all scholarships needed by the team.

The Wildcat Club will continue in operation to supplement this figure, in hopes that the team may be able to offer bigger and better scholarships in years to come.

“We are exceptionally pleased,” Scott commented, “and the money will help fill any holes we have in our present program.”

The Saints were also pleased with the arrangement.

In a release from their front office, they said, “We are very pleased about being able to come to Davidson. We have known about the Wildcats for a long time and have a deep appreciation for their program and facilities.

“We hope we can build a good relationship with the Davidson program and the North and South Carolina area in general.

“Davidson as a team plays our kind of football—aggressive and exciting, and we hope that there can be a mutual learning relationship between our coaching staffs.”

Head Coach Dave Fagg said that he was excited by the proposal.

“This gives us a decided in with a fine pro team,” he said, “and we hope that we can benefit from the experience. Hopefully, the proximity of the two teams will offer us a chance to learn a lot. Also, this situation should help us to offer a chance for our players to break into pro football.”

The Saints stated that they were very interested in football in the Charlotte area.

“We have heard a lot of good things about that area,” a spokesman said, “and we are hopeful. After all, if the Falcons got a Willie Belton out of Greenville, think of what we could get from Charlotte.”

The Saints will begin their spring practice sometime in April, utilizing the gym and practice fields. Students may be somewhat limited in their use of the gym during that period.

“We are very sorry for the inconvenience that this may cause the students,” Scott said, “but we know they will be happy to make any sacrifice for the football team.”

Salads

“After Church”

Sunday Buffet

All You Can Eat

12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken

Beverages

Price $1.95

Student Union Dining Room

Desserts

Phone 376-2576

Rendezvous in Charlotte at

La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY

Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
— CHOICE STEAKS —

La Roma
Ristoranti

Charlotte, N. C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

This Christmas.

Driving Home For Christmas? If your Chevy needs some care before the Yule Exodus, give our service manager a call. His name is Bill Young and the number is 892-1106. Our Best Wishes To All Davidson Students

Safety Chevrolet Co.

MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Authorized Chevrolet Dealer For Davidson

SKI JACKETS

SKI OVERPANTS

INSUL - KNIT
UNDERWEAR

and

Now!

Get ready for the holidays

Do Your Christmas Shopping

Gifts wrapped Free

OPEN NIGHTS TIL CHRISTMAS

John Mack & Son

Mooresville

Six Miles North