CECIL BURNEY  
The Davidsonian  
April 23, 1971  
Page Five  

Stopping An Emotional Time Bomb  

I write the following statement to reveal a bit of myself, to make myself a bit more transparent to those around me, and to point to a problem which I think is the most serious problem Davidson has. During my junior year in high school I began to feel a great deal of anxiety, depression, and confusion about myself and my relations with others. I lacked motivation to work in school, and at night I went to my room questioning all that I ever believed or ever did. I lacked a feeling of self-esteem, and I felt an intense lack of security about myself. I wandered through that junior year mostly in misery. I felt estranged, alienated, and misunderstood. I felt that I could not be honest with others and they could not be honest with me. I had enough money the following summer to go to a friend, who is a clinical psychologist, for weekly sessions over a period of about two months. In these sessions we very honestly and forthrightly discussed me. I had a chance (perhaps one of the greatest chances of my life) to look at myself and others from a new perspective. I had a friend, the therapist, who was understanding and helpful and who was willing to keep all that we discussed confidential. He offered me his willingness to listen and to hear what I said. During the course of our sessions I got to know him, too. I had a chance to learn to hear honest communication from him about himself and his own difficulties, and we became good friends. There is a great deal of pain in trying to be honest with yourself and in trying to communicate that honesty to others. You have to venture into an honest relationship trusting another person to be careful in dealing with the parts of your life which you show him. You have to assume the responsibility, too, of becoming a person he can trust as he tells you about himself. That is a real challenge, and it is a very painful process. But it is, for me, the most rewarding experience I can have. It is certain that Davidson students are not immune to the problems of alienation and loneliness. Problems exist here in great abundance. We are on an isolated campus in a rapidly changing world. This is a single-sex campus with little access to continuing exposure to women. We face a war which is so far away and yet so close to every student here. In recent years a variety of drugs have become popular with...

Black Poetry And Jazz Make Poor Combination  
A REVIEW By FRANK SOOS  

Contrary to the advertisements for T. J. Reddy and Expressions ’70 which read “black poetry set to music,” Wednesday night’s performance was more black poetry and music thrown together. Featured were Reddy and Grady Seigle, band leader and composer. Reddy currently writes for the Charlotte Observer and edits the Charlotte arts magazine Aim. His poetry has been published in Southern Poetry Review, the Red Clay Reader, and other literary magazines. The band, playing some of Seigle’s compositions, performed a breed of jazz that was closely akin, at its best moments, to the sound of Santana, complete with conga drums. At times, however, the musicians were not playing together and some key solos were played poorly. Jazz as played by the Expressions ’70 is a cool, melodic, rhythmic strain of music. Unfortunately, the smooth sound and the violent lyrics of Reddy's poetry clashed and limited the effects of either. Reddy began by reading several of his own works and then went into works by other black poets and poetesses. His reading was poor and he tended to stumble often over his own lyrics which were far too wordy and fast-moving to catch the audience’s attention. “Jazz,” one of his best poems, paints a picture of the black musician. However, he drops back on the old theme of the suppression of the black man, out of keeping with the theme of the poem. The bursts of poetry were short and then gone before the audience could get into...b e ti the theme. Then more music which may or may not have been in any way related to the poetry. Three poems on black womanhood were followed by “The Look of Love.” Another aspect of the music/reading was the air of the entertainer that Reddy assumed throughout. Introductions were handled with showmanship. The lighting didn’t add to the actual reading either. When emphasis is on the spoken word, a pink light on the speaker must somehow affect his message. Good points from Reddy’s appearance seem to have been that the band was, on the whole, enjoyable, even though its presence was superfluous to the poetry. The selections from other poets were also excellent even though the reading, lighting, and music all contributed to minimizing their effectiveness.

For example, alcohol. Tragically, there have been bad trips, and some of these have been at Davidson. Some students at Davidson are like walking emotional time bombs. Problems build up inside them, and they are uncertain about whom they can trust to talk to, and the fuse gets shorter and shorter as time ticks away. Some problems that are not discussed become like a sore which festers with time and worsens. The Dean of Students is crippled as a counselor because he is at the same time an enforcer of rules. Hall counselors cannot be counselors with freshmen about certain things, like Honor Court violations, because they are bound to report such violations. Many professors avoid becoming involved very deeply with students because they don’t want to appear to have favorites. Our administration is so distant from this critical aspect of student life that next year the contract with a clinical psychologist has been cancelled for “financial reasons.” I hope they can, in good conscience, explain “financial reasons” to the next student whose emotional time bomb blows up or the student whose long festering sore becomes so bad that he becomes totally unable to function as a person.

In the past year, our clinical psychologist, Dr. Meredith Hall, has become essential to the life of this college because he has deeply involved with individual people and people in groups of various kinds. He offers a confidentiality which very few at Davidson have been able to provide. He has offered hope for those who have felt utterly lost. I personally know the value of counseling which I experienced, and I personally know about many problems which students have. These problems of alienation, loneliness, tension, anxiety, and frustration must be met with something other than an excuse of having no money. Life is more important than that.

By ALEC HOON
News Editor

The Chronicle of Higher Education has reported that the National Student Association (NSA), of which Davidson College is a member, has fallen deeply in debt. The NSA owes almost $100,000 on a loan taken last year to meet old debts. According to Vice President Donald Shali, many of its programs have been cut back and all are understaffed. However, Shali expressed hope that the deficit might be reduced as loan payments become smaller and as money comes in from NSA services, including a recognized book club.

ARA Food Service To Improve At USC

Following a food appraisal conference sponsored by the company to improve its image to the students, ARA District Manager Bill Allbright said that next year, his company would provide better service and more versatility to South Carolina students, the Gamecock, the student newspaper, has stated. Bill Bennett, head of the appraisal conference, affirmed that students “have a right to return the food and that they must not be afraid to do so.”

Dickinson College Feels Economic Pinch

The Dickinson College Committee on Institutional Priorities and Resources recommended to the president of the college the following: (1) a 45 dollar raise in tuition, (2) that salary increments be held across the board, (3) the elimination of several positions in some departments, and (4) the limitation of the number of personnel in other departments. Also, according to the Dickinsonian, federal work-study funds will run out April 15. Next year’s funds will have to be used to meet the deficit. It is reported that the end of funds will cause some understaffing in the various departments and in the Food Service.