COLLEGE FINANCES (Staff photo by Horwitz)

BUILDING AN ENDOWMENT

Ronald Nordeen assumes position as Director of Deferred Giving.

The Davidsonian
September 17, 1971
Page Three

Nordeen Speaks To Alumni On College Life Income Plan

By DAVID ARANT
Staff Writer

After two weeks as Davidson’s Director of Deferred Giving, Ronald D. Nordeen is beginning to study North Carolina tax laws and to set up an itinerary to speak to alumni groups. Nordeen admitted that the deferred giving business is a complex area, but the basic concept is the giving of a sum of money to the college which holds the funds in trust while returning the earnings of the principal to the donor during his lifetime. When the donor dies, the college places the principal of the gift in the endowment fund of the college. There are several plans of deferred giving, according to Nordeen. All of these fall un-

Cornell Consolidates Area Of Development Priorities

AN ANALYSIS
By RUSSELL CARTER and ALLEN WILLIAMS
Staff Writers

Davidson's development program is a highly and extremely important facet of the college, employing many people and much time. However, C. David Cornell, Vice-President of Finance and Development, was able to consolidate the complex program into two easily distinguishable areas, “friend-raising and fund-raising.”

Under the area of “friend-raising” comes Davidson’s public information service, the News Bureau, and the Alumni Office as well as the Sports Information Department, all of which are designed to keep the general public, along with friends and alumni, interested and aware of important events concerning the college. Thus, without the primary process of “friend-raising,” the all-important “fund-raising” would be an even more difficult job, if not an impossible task.

The basic need for raising funds is simply to cover the costs for the education of every student. Each year, tuition and fees cover only fifty percent of the cost. The difference must be raised in various different ways. A great portion of the college income comes from dividends received from the college endowment, which now has a market value of about $18 million. These funds, from which the college takes five percent of the market value for its operating expenses, have been increased through the years by large gifts from individuals, foundations, and corporations.

Money from the Duke Endowment Fund also falls into this category and annually supplies the college with an amount equivalent to the interest on almost $15 million. Yearly budget expenses not covered by the endowment must be met by the annual fund. In order to balance college expenses by using this income, it is necessary to collect the amount of money in the annual fund through alumni foundations, corporation gifts, and unrestricted gifts. The goal for this year’s fund is $310,000, an increase of fifty percent over last year’s figure.

The raising of the annual fund at many colleges is greatly simplified because as many as sixty percent of the alumni donate money to it on a yearly basis. Director of Development Donald L. Winston pointed out that only twenty-five percent of the Davidson alumni donate money, however. This is one reason that the school is planning and sponsoring numerous alumni events including reunions, special weekends, and speakers for their clubs.

A third element of income to the school comes under the capital gift campaigns. These funds are outside of the yearly budget and come solely from donations. Cornell stressed that three main projects are now being emphasized. Of primary importance is the library for which $2 million has thus far been raised. Plans for this have been completed and hopefully construction will begin in the near future. The library will be located where the College Union now stands. Secondly,Money from the capital gifts will be used to cover academic scholarships. Also, the need for the upgrading of existing endowed chairs and the establishment of new ones can hopefully be met. A chain donation involves enough endowment to cover and/or supplement a professor’s salary each year through investment interest dividends. The development staff is also working with Queens College officials to plan a joint campaign to begin in 1972. The financial campaign will be supported by the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina. Two final sources of income are the Wildcat Fund, which helps the school supplement the cost of the football scholarship program, and the Deferred Giving Program.

The latter seeks two major kinds of gifts. First are bequests received through a donor’s will. Secondly, a donor can establish a trust fund at the college and receive the income from those funds during his lifetime. Upon his death, these funds would be added to the college’s endowment.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA GUS'S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

Under the category of life income plans, the first is the gift annuity which provides a guaranteed, set rate of lifetime income on a gift of cash or other property to Davidson College. This plan has several tax advantages. The second of the life income plans is the trust. The donor makes a gift of appreciated assets and describes what type of income return he desires on the property until his death. He may prefer a large return interest in later years and can so stipulate. The third plan is the pooled income fund. In this case, the donor pools his funds with other donors and the rate of return is based on the combined income of the pooled funds. This plan has many tax advantages and is popular at several colleges across the country, Nordeen said.

Nordeen has many plans for deferred giving. He expects to make the availability of this program known through letters, advertisements, alumni publications, and personal contact in his travels. He emphasized the value of direct contact when discussing deferred giving with possible donors. A steady enrichment of the college endowment from deferred giving will require several years to be realized, he said. During the past five years, Nordeen worked on the development staff of Pomona College and was responsible for writing over $10 million in annuity and life income contracts.

Regulations Set For Refrigerators

In a decision late in June, The Residential Hall Council (RHC) passed by unanimous vote a resolution revising the regulations concerning the use of refrigerators in residence halls. The new ruling states that all refrigerators must be registered with the R.H.C. within three weeks after the beginning of the 1971 Fall Term, in the name of one individual who will assume responsibility for any water damage, etc. incurred from refrigerator usage. The registrant in question will be responsible for the removal of his refrigerator over the summer term from the premises of Davidson College, and for defrosting, cleaning, and disconnecting his refrigerator before each term break. The recommended size of such refrigerators was set by the council to include, but not exceed, six cubic feet with exceptions permitted only upon inspection by the R.H.C., the intent being to rule out possible fire hazards. All units found to have faulty wiring must be disposed of within one week of inspection.

Only For Your
6 Miles North
CAMPUS CLOTHES
BOTANY 500, HUNTER-HAIG Suits and Sportcoats
SERO, VAN HEUSEN Shirts and Sportshirts
HUNTER-HAIG FARAH, HAGGAR Slacks and Double Knits
KAZOO, HICKS’, FARAH Flare Jeans
MUNSINGWEAR, JANTZEN Skinny Ribs and Knit Shirts
DINGO Boots, BOSTONIAN Shoes
Your ID Card is Your Automatic Charge Account

Mooresville
Mitchell Mack, Class ’42