Page Eight April 2, 1971

Friday, April 2
10 a.m. Lecture: James G. Holland, Morrison Room
8 p.m. Musical: "Stop the World, I Want To Get Off," Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Concert: Great Speckled Band, Morrison Room

Saturday, April 3
8 p.m. Charlie Byrd Concert, Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Concert: Great Speckled Band, Morrison Room

Monday, April 5
10 a.m. Open End, Morrison Room
8 p.m. Open Meeting on Coeducation, Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. Wind Ensemble

Tuesday, April 6
7 p.m. Pre-law Extended Studies, Speaker: Mark Edwards

Wednesday, April 7
8 p.m. Movie: "Lady in Cement," Morrison Room

Thursday, April 8
3 p.m. Poetry Reading: Stowe Galleries, Green Room
7 p.m. Opening Night of the Paintings of Laura Grosch, Hodson Hall — Green Room

Friday, April 9
8 p.m. Movie: "Lady in Cement," Morrison Room

Civilisation’ Sutton Offers History Of Western Man
By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

"Civilisation," Sir Kenneth Clark's masterful series of thirteen 52-minute color films, is being used as the basis for the Extended
Studies project in Area V. This series is Clark's personal interpretation of the last sixteen hundred years in the history
of the Western world. Area V is the inter-area of the Extended Studies projects and it is open to freshmen
and sophomores. The book "Civilisation," which is the script of the films, is read along with viewing the film and
participating in discussion groups.

According to Assistant Professor of German Dr. Hans-Arthur Gregor and Dr. Ford Epes Jr., "Clark sees the history of Western
man reflected primarily in art." Dr. Epes agrees that the Western tradition can be well seen through art, although he
does see limitations to this interpretation. "No man in 650 minutes can tell the story of Western civilization and have
all agree with him. Clark appears to have a grudge against the twentieth century," commented Epes.

Charlie Byrd Quartet To Give Concert In Love
By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

Charlie Byrd and his quartet will appear in Love Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. on Saturday, April 3. Byrd has appeared
in concert tours for more than a decade, and his repertoire is extremely varied. Duff Bruce, Social Chairman, said, "I
have seen him play classical, pop, and back into the Beatles." Byrd encompasses all types of music, and he has
performed at such places as Carnegie Hall and the London Philharmonic. Byrd has not previously appeared at Davidson, and Bruce
commented, "We are fortunate to have him come to Davidson at this time. He is really a top-flight performer, and
I was very impressed when I heard him."

In recent years Byrd has put emphasis on contemporary material, and his latest albums reflect this. Byrd has a special
fondness for jazz, and he has been greatly influenced by the Beatles and Miles Davis. "Byrd is so versatile that
he is reminiscent of Roger Williams on the piano," said Bruce. What is distinctive about Charlie Byrd is his ability
to blend several different forms and his original treatment of material. "His combination of styles is quite remarkable," said Bruce.

Also appearing this weekend will be "The Great Speckled Band." This is a country-rock group which will be giving two
blanket concerts in the Morrison Room tonight and Saturday at 10:30. Howard Ramagli, who heads the Hungry I, feels, "The
group is very similar to the 'Nitty Gritty Dirt Band,' and it is extremely original."

Senate (Continued from Page 1)
the right to choose the system they want. By denying that right, we would be making a drastic mistake." The
proposal passed by a vote of 11-6, including two absentee votes in favor and one abstention. Burney then proposed that
the Senate endorse the idea that they ask the trustees to hear opposing voices to the proposal. This motion passed
10-5. Turner then added a rider to the bill which would give the student government control of the rush program,
a concept which was not mentioned in the original proposal. However, a motion to reconsider the bill with the rider
was defeated 8-6. Clodfelter stated that...Leader, Epes has a great interest in "Civilisation," and he finds it to be the
best film presentation of art. "This is an excellent exposure to good art, and I am very pleased that 57
students are viewing the film and reading the book 'Civilisation' as an Extended Studies project."

Another discussion group leader, Professor of Economics Dr. Ernest F. Patterson, is pleased with the high quality of the photography.
"The script is well coordinated with the film, and it is a highly professional film presentation," he said. "Unfortunately Clark
does not properly emphasize the role of economics and technology in the history of Western man," commented Patterson. "Clark tries
to do too much by making art and architecture the major reflection of civilization. This is its strength but also
its weakness," he added. "It is fortunate that the film is aimed at the general audience and not at the
expert," said Patterson. By Clark's not considering Eastern civilization, Patterson believes Clark arrogantly implies that civilization is necessarily Western. "Clark
enforces the idea that Western civilization is the best. This may be true but I am not willing to accept
this concept at the present time," said Patterson.

"'Civilisation' combines music, photography of art, and Clark's personal interpretation," said Professor of Religion Dr. Max E. Polley. Polley is
only slightly critical because it excludes Greek, Roman, and Eastern civilizations. "Clark explains the meaning of civilization, and makes one
wonder if we are civilized people today," he said. Polley finds the film and book somewhat difficult for students to
discuss because the mass of information is overwhelming. Polley's reaction to 'Civilisation' is extremely favorable, but he does see danger
in that one could accept passively Clark's personal view of civilization since Clark is a specialist in Western art. Polley
finds Clark has a sensibility for the material being covered, and he is modest in his approach. Polley says, "Clark
attempts to make a synthesis rather than an analysis of Western tradition. He gives one a sense of the general
movement of Western society."

The National Foundation for the Humanities is bearing the cost of "Civilisation," being shown in this country at small liberal
arts colleges such as Davidson. The charge to Davidson is nominal.

ODK Taps Fourteen New Members
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

Acting President of Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) Ran Coble announced today the selection of 14 new members to the leadership
fraternity. Senior Kim Griffith, a member of Phi Beta Kappa, served as secretary of the student Senate last year and
was a member of the Committee of 18, which outlined the new social system. Charlie Ralston, also a member of
the senior class, served as a representative on the student Senate and on the Union Food Committee. Ed Shoaf, class
of '71, is a Dana Scholar and a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He served as Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN
last year and previously as a Managing Editor. Senior Joe Smith is currently an Associate Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and
serves as Freshman Class Adviser. Junior Danny Clodfelter is presently serving as President of the Student Body. A North Carolina
Fellow, Clodfelter was President of his class during his junior year and a representative on the Educational Policy Committee (EPC).
Junior Dick LeVan was captain of Davidson's Southern Conference Championship soccer team, and he has recently organized a soccer club.
Junior Ray Swetenberg is presently active on the track team. He holds the Southern Conference Indoor Championship in the 60-yard
high hurdles. Jody Turner, class of '72, is presently serving as student representative on the EPC. A North Carolina Fellow,
Turner has served three years on the student Senate. Jon Fuller, William Jackson, and James Fredericksen were faculty members selected
to ODK. Alumni Scott Woodmansee and Sterling Martin were also chosen to become members.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA
Right on music
1110 WBT
