Page Two September 10, 1971 The Davidsonian

Snack Bar Leads List Of Changes By Food Service

DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

The establishment of a snack bar and the availability of unlimited second helpings are just two of the innovations introduced
this year by Ronald B. Scott, the new director of the food service for ARA Slater.

“For a couple of years students have been asking for snack bar service,” said Scott. “We are presently serving soup
and sandwiches at the snack bar, but we hope to bring in some more equipment which will enable us to
serve a greater variety of food.

“We have extended the operation to take the pressure off certain periods of the day,” commented Scott. “This is part
of our continuing effort to give better service to the students.

“One of the advantageous features of our new program is that unlimited seconds will be allowed with the exception of
steak and premium entrees,” he said. “All anyone will have to do is get in line if they desire seconds.”

Many of the changes in the food service are due in large part to Davidson's ending of its subsidization of
the food program. “Now that the college has ended its subsidization, we are operating strictly on a profit and loss
basis,” commented Scott.

“Upperclassmen may elect a 20 meal boarding program,” said Scott. However, a 20 meal boarding plan is required for freshmen,
with eighteen meals eaten at the Student Union and two eaten at one of the eating clubs.

One of the changes is that those holding meal tickets can no longer claim the continental breakfast which is served
from 8:30 a.m. to 11 a.m. In the past, meal ticket holders could do this, but presently those eating the
continental breakfast have to pay cash. Individuals on the board meal plan will be able to eat breakfast between 7:15
a.m. and 8:30 a.m. Monday through Friday. During weekdays they will be able to eat lunch at the snack bar
between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. and at the cafeteria line between 12 noon and 1:30 p.m. Dinner will be
available between 5 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. Those eating at the snack bar will be able to pass through the
snack bar line as long as they do not exceed $1.25. Those with meal tickets desiring to eat items costing
more than $1.25 must pay for these additional items.

On Saturday, breakfast will be available between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. Lunch will be served between 12 noon and
1:30 p.m.

LET’S MAKE A DEAL (Staff Photo by Lawrimore)
Administrator Greg Scott visits with freshman parents.

Parents, Students Praise Freshman Orientation

AN ANALYSIS
By ALEC HOON
Asst. Managing Editor

The freshman orientation program has been praised by students and parents alike. The reaction among freshmen was especially enthusiastic.

Parking Spaces Limited

RICHARD BUSH
Staff Writer

While Davidson's physical plant staff devoted the major portion of their energies to the various refurbishing projects on campus this
summer, they also attempted to deal with the college’s major outdoor headache: parking. The scarcity of parking spaces provided for
students was a significant issue.

A survey of available parking conducted during the summer found just over 500 spaces on campus. Although 600 parking permits
were issued last year, it was decided that the number of available spaces would be adequate for this year. This
decision was reached in a meeting attended by Dean of Students Will H. Terry.

The Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
CECIL BURNEY
TODD HOBBIE
JOHN McLEAN

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
DAVID HANIG

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON
ALEC HOON

Advertising Manager:
WHIT WHITWORTH

Contributors this week:
Howard Boyd

Copy Editors:
BOBBIE BLACKWOOD
JAMES HANNA

Photography Editors:
DAVE DOTY

Ass't Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
FRANK ERWIN
BILL BARNES
Rick Bush, Charlie Terrell

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$6.00.the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze, and Grounds Superintendent Ir- Brawley. Several reasons were mentioned to explain why five hundred
spaces should be sufficient. Those mentioned included that cars are also parked on Concord Street, that some students register more
than one car, and that only one registered car is allowed on campus. It was also decided at this meeting
to enforce the present regulations more strictly. None of those present, however, wished to take the responsibility for holding traffic
court, so it was decided that the SGA Senate should appoint a faculty member to this position.

During the past two weeks, new signs have been added to ensure that students would be aware of their designated
areas. The only major changes in the old system are that parking will no longer be allowed around the campus
at any time, either around the inside of Patterson Court or in the lots around the Union. Starting Monday, September
13, college security officials will be charged with enforcing the new rules.

Freshmen were generally pleased with the way their introduction to Davidson was conducted. "The whole program was run pretty well.
I thought that the scheduling and organization were superb," commented freshman Steve Robb. "There was plenty of opportunity for me
to learn about different facets of Davidson life," he said.

Dean of Students Will H. Terry felt that the inclusion of freshmen parents was a valuable addition. "It was a
new experiment having parents attend the first two days of orientation. The purpose was to enable them to get a
taste of what Davidson education involves," he said. "All indications from parents, hall counselors, and faculty advisors are that things
went smoothly and that the programs met at least the needs of many parents," Terry noted.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said the orientation received an overwhelming response from parents. "I received many favorable comments
both from parents directly involved and from people off campus who had heard about the program," he said. "I think
it was a good idea to get parents involved in campus life. It gives them a sense of attachment to
the college and an interest in its future," commented Cannon Hall Counselor Steve Suflas.

The main criticism of freshmen was with the method of course selection. Many sensed a lack of concern by faculty
advisors for the long-range plans of the students. The blame was placed on inadequate time for advisor counseling. Freshman Tommy
Nicoll said that "it was too bad that I got to spend so little time with my advisor. There was
only time for me to plan my courses for this term. I would have liked to have discussed my ideas
for a major."

Those students with parents participating in orientation felt that their parents enjoyed their stay and were impressed with the talks
they heard. One parent was overheard exclaiming that he was pleasantly surprised by the friendly bantering between Terry and Director
of the Library Chalmers Davidson. He said that he had expected long, dull, uninteresting speeches and talks.

SENIOR CAPS & GOWNS
Seniors who have not picked up their caps and gowns for Fall Convocation should contact Bill Lear, Little 307, before
Friday, September 17.
