Page Eight April 16, 1971 The Davidsonian

I had hoped to speak at Davidson, as a pro-American, free enterprise Christian conservative. I have been speaking before civic
clubs, mainly rebutting positions such as those taken by the Daily World, by Hugh Hester, by the Chicago 7, by
Norman Cousins (World Federalists, USA), and by others including Dr. E. P. Patterson. Dr. Patterson is encouraging students to join
the movement to besiege Washington, D.C. Rennie Davis is one of the spark plugs of this movement "to bring the
U.S. Government to its knees" (Evans and Novak, "Charlotte Observer," March 10, 1970). The radical coalition met in Washington the
weekend of Feb. 26-28, and PRESENT WERE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY. Dr. Patterson’s group aimed at Feb. 23 "or
later."

Following a couple of years of my rebuttals of Hugh Hester and Dr. Patterson in the "Charlotte Observer," Dr. R.
R. Kincaid wrote me in December, 1970, inviting me to the campus to "chat." He included an invitation, with no
strings attached, to lecture with Dr. Patterson. We at length agreed that I would lecture on March 4, at 10
a.m. in the Morrison Room.

I explained to Dr. Kincaid, concerning the "chatting" invitation, that a 400-mile round trip to Davidson, and an overnight stay,
for that purpose was not practical. You are encouraged to look up the word "chat" in Webster’s New International. I
did respond by inviting Dr. Kincaid to make such a trip himself; to visit and look me over in my
own home—and "chat." He did not acknowledge the invitation.

As for my lecture which didn’t come off, I feel I had something to offer the college following its exposure
to Julian Bond, Norman Cousins, and Rennie Davis—who was a platform companion of Hugh Hester on April 12, 1970, before
a group of clenched-fist followers at Chapel Hill. Unfortunately, I became ill. I notified Dr. Kincaid. He had been insistent
that I leave all publicity in his hands, after I had written THE DAVIDSONIAN a letter for publication—the reason being
the long lapse during which I could not get needed replies from Dr. Kincaid—needed to settle details and mesh the
Davidson appearance with my other speaking engagements.

At the end of one of these long periods of silence, right after I wrote THE DAVIDSONIAN, Dr. Kincaid quickly
phoned me. The upshot of his call was to ask me to withdraw my letter to the editor, and to
"trust him" to give me adequate publicity. He was emphatic on the point that the best form of publicity would
be his personally telling his colleagues of my coming talk, so they in turn could notify their classes. I had
learned, by degrees, of the three media the college uses for publicizing speakers and other coming events—namely "Up ’n Coming,"
"Announcements," and "(Month) at Davidson." It seemed odd to me that these three time-tested methods would be placed by Dr.
Kincaid in a position secondary to "word of mouth" publicity. I reasoned with him that there were risks in his
viewpoint—he could have an accident, or get ill at the wrong time FOR ME. And if he then delegated this
task of personally contacting his colleagues, would his delegate do a proper job? But he made a big thing out
of his view, and his insistence that I "trust him."

I believe there are about 130 teachers and administrators in the published September roster. It would be quite time-consuming to
verbally announce a coming event to each of these. I would think the use of the three time-tested media would
do the job. I doubt if anybody makes a regular practice of personal contact with the 130, preceding the appearance
of each of the many speakers and artists who visit you. At any rate, I do not know if Dr.
Kincaid actually took the time to give me this saturation "word of mouth" publicity. I do know that he published
my speaking date in "Announcements," did not get it published in "Up 'n Coming," and I believe there was no
issue of "April at Davidson." Any professor or administrator who was NOT personally contacted by Dr. Kincaid will understand why
I felt that use of the accustomed media to the extent possible, was appropriate in my case, just as it
was for Cousins, Packwood, and others I checked on.

After I phoned Dr. Kincaid about my illness, he said that he would be

Editor’s Note: This is an advertisement paid for by E. P. Thornton, Murrells Inlet, S.C.Back in touch with me for
another engagement date. Before long, he wrote me a short letter, from which I quote: “Because of other demands on
my time this term, I shall be unable to reschedule your visit here.” I was beginning to think that I
might have to use the columns of THE DAVIDSONIAN to make some conservative points. I wrote a brief letter asking
for rates on display advertising space. I was quoted. Shortly afterward, my phone rang again. It was Dr. Kincaid. He
said he had very little influence, not even a close acquaintance, with THE DAVIDSONIAN staff. But in some way, he
had found out that I made a simple inquiry about advertising rates. He asked me point-blank if I intended to
write about him. This blunt approach was something new to me. I remarked in the course of our conversation that
it was not his right to censor, or even to become inquisitive, about how I might be planning to spend
my own money. He had already withdrawn his sponsorship. That book appeared to be closed. I was forced to tell
him frankly that MY business with THE DAVIDSONIAN was none of HIS business—although he was seeking to make it his.
This was the second time he had sought to keep me from using THE DAVIDSONIAN. I took an unappreciative view
of his attempt to infringe upon my right of freedom of speech. At any rate, he then seemed to be
able to find time to reschedule me. We left it that he would write and offer me several alternate dates,
so I could avoid conflict with my other speaking engagements, and that I would, after receipt of his letter, make
a decision. He wrote on March 26, and I quote the entire letter: “Because of my other commitments and because
our relationship has developed into that of adversaries, I believe we should not proceed any further.”

I do not know how much time is required to arrange for the use of Morrison or some other public
room, and to phone or visit, on a small campus, the “three media” and arrange for the time-tested publicity notices.
It is obvious that Dr. Kincaid has vacillated somewhat in the matter of being “too busy.” I believe the matter
does indeed boil down to the “nitty-gritty” of the “adversary relationship.”

After Dr. Kincaid first approached me on December 15, 1970, Dr. E. F. Patterson joined with 15 other sponsors of
an advertisement in the “Charlotte Observer” of February 12. Its purpose was to raise money and attract supporters for making
mass visits to Washington “on February 23 and subsequent dates.” It is by now well known that Rennie Davis was
one of the mainstays of this “March on Washington” movement, and that he met in planning sessions with many other
persons and factions, INCLUDING THE COMMUNIST PARTY, to arrange the campaign to pressure our government into ending the war on
a basis favorable to the communist aggressors. His plans are being raucously backed up in the columns of the communist
“Daily World.” I have newspaper and other accounts of Rennie’s fanatical efforts, and his advocacy of disruption and anarchy to
achieve his goals. As I now review these exhibits and the Kincaid correspondence, in perspective, I can only conclude there
was never a time when Dr. Kincaid and I were not, to some extent, “adversaries.” He wrote to me on
February 15: “We have very few people on campus who hold what I think are your views—.” From this, you
will see that there was an “adverse” underlying attitude toward me, quite early. How would one man who had never
met me know what my views are on ONE WORLD GOVERNMENT, on the CONNALLY AMENDMENT, on the GENOCIDE TREATY, and
other vital matters, when I had never expressed them within that person’s sphere of awareness?

True, he did know that I am against Communism and what dangles from it. In such a chain as Rennie
Davis meeting with communists to plan the disruption of our government; Hester speaking from the same platform as Rennie; Patterson
editorially championing Hester. And Patterson advertising for money and men to abet Rennie in his pressure tactics. Does Dr. Kincaid
speak with authority when he charges that nearly everybody in the college is a link in this chain, and that
“few” share my opposition to such things? If he is right, then at Davidson there is the danger of another
Berkeley takeover by communists and anarchists.

The remainder of Mr. Thornton’s advertisement will appear on the last page of next week's issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. We
regret that technical problems and limitations of space precluded running the entire advertisement on this page.
