“Che Davidsonian

“THE ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
— Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR MAY 14, 1971

Representation

It is unfortunate, but the indications are that the alumni do not want the trustees who run the school to
be in any way confused with the students who peo- ple it. In line with the automatic addition of students
to the boards of trustees at other institutions, it would seem that Davidson students might be equally represented on our
board of trustees.

The hope for such student representation now seems to rest with the trustees themselves. In the fraternity issue this year
they have shown that they can be more open to change, or radicalized more than many of the present students
on campus. Now we must hope that they are more receptive to change on this point of representation than the
former students who make up the alumni board nominating committee. It is unfortunate that the alumni cannot see the merits
of the case after they are separated from the Davidson campus. If the alumni will not elect recent graduates (Tom
Earnhardt) or even nominate present students, it lies with the trustees and trustee bylaw changes to offer student hope for
representation.

For Want Of A Buck...

It seems almost ludicrous that, at a time when the college needs desperately to work for student approval and support,
the administration has again sacrificed student concern and student rights for want of a few more bucks. We are speaking,
of course, of the continual postponement of the drawing for dormitory rooms.

The concern of the administration over the college’s financial situation is quite justifiable. However, if such a concern comes before
the college’s responsibility to its students, a drastic shift in priorities is in order.

The delay in room drawing is a nuisance to both the students and to housing officials. The nearer exams loom,
the greater the anxiety becomes among students and the harder the job of housing officials becomes. Moreover, if the drawing
is postponed much longer, it will be necessary for students to choose their rooms while trying to study for exams
and writing end-of-the-term papers.

It’s too late to urge that the administration consider the problems that students are facing due to the delay. The
harm produced by such procrastination has already been done. We can only say now that we hope our administrators will
remember in the future that concern for students must come ahead of concern for the dollar.

The Gordian Knot?

Yet another example of the growing lack of concern for student needs is seen in the new registration procedures being
instituted next week. Not only are the students going to be inconvenienced by the new method, but faculty members, already
overworked in many instances by the usual end-of-the-year work, will also feel the irritating pinch of the procedure.

We commend the Office of the Registrar for attempting to clear up the confusing mess that normally surrounds registration. However,
we cannot agree that the solution to these problems which has been offered in the form of the new registration
procedure is at all suitable.

In the first place, there is simply not enough time given to the students to work out their schedules satisfactorily.
There are just two days allotted for selection of courses and consultation with advisers, and only two hours given to
each student to tramp around campus to obtain his precious “course cards” from professors.

Also, this whole procedure puts more work on the students and the faculty in setting up courses and classes for
next term than is necessary. Indeed, the new system has the possibility of becoming as confusing and as hectic as
the mass registrations at large universities.

In short, it appears that the “new look” registration, while practical for administrative reasons, is unresponsive to students and their
problems and is not the solution that is needed.

JOE SMITH

Davidson Experience Lies 'Twixt Hell And Heaven

It is a fairly common aspect of the human condition that a good thing is never recognized until it has
been lost to those who hardly come to appreciate it. As one who is about to leave these hallowed halls,
I would like to forward the idea that this is true of Davidson. The perfection of the Princeton of the
South is not being defended here; there are numerous things at Davidson which are certainly subject to review, if not
reform. What is being defended here is the basic goodness of what, for want of a better phrase, is called
the Davidson experience.

Granted, it takes the better part of an hour to get to urban civilization from here, a fact not altogether
lamentable. If it does complicate a young man’s never-ending quest for pleasure of the flesh, it is also a good
position from which to observe the affairs of the urban centers of the world without having to pay the awful
price, literally and figuratively, of living in one.

No matter how much they try to hide the fact, the students here are of high quality. Scratch the surface
of the biggest party boy on this campus and you will find an intellectual trying to get out. Given my
own experience, it is hard for me to believe that everyone here has not, at some time or...other, had a
learning experience of value outside the classroom, but developing into intelligent discourse. And so one wonders about the perspicacity, if
not the sanity, of those who just can't wait to get out of here, bearing every moment on campus as
a bleeding sore. Where, exactly, will they go? The U.S. Army? Low rung on the great ladder to success at
General Motors? Gradu-

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Galbraith Used Old Text

To the Editor:

On Monday, the Reynolds Lecture Series brought the renowned Harvard professor and economist, John Kenneth Galbraith, to the Davidson College
campus. That night he delivered a lecture on “Foreign Policy: The Next Reform.” This speech was quoted verbatim, (except for
a few of his dry, “New Englandish,” witty side remarks), from his article entitled “Plain Lesson on A Bad Decade,”
which was published in the winter issue, 1970-71, of Foreign Policy. I will admit that probably a vast majority of
the audience had not read the article, but I hope we paid him $1200 for more than a personal recitation
of an article which we all could have read free in the periodical room of the library. In light of
this experience, which I am sure is not an isolated incident, I feel that we must seriously reconsider our whole
“lecture-series” policy. This week we expended much more than we were paid back, an action even Mr. Galbraith would admit
is bad economics. In the future, will we go on wasting our money?

Bill Mayfield ‘72
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Parts of the new curriculum have been in effect for three years, but much of the “Blue Sky” program has
never been realized. Since both faculty and students have a stake in the intellectual environment of this college, I urge
that we clear the smog of power struggle and concentrate on a crucial problem. The problem is how to ensure
that curriculum quality and academic excellence do not dissipate in the rapid rush to supply a wider offering of educational
alternatives. Curriculum changes in the past three years have moved away from the traditional liberal arts program of a required
core of courses in many areas. Area requirements remain, but with elective options. The Honors College is established, foreign study
expanded, and Career Service envisaged. Exchanges with other schools have opened. Pass-fail options now exist to encourage dabbling. But some
complain that the curriculum is still rigid; that it is rigid with respect to evaluation. I grant that it is
more difficult to gauge how much is learned from independent study than it is to test students on the content
of a course, but this does not give reason to accept shoddy work by those pursuing independent study.

Two other opportunities are possible. Davidson can withdraw from the educational system. Professors, laboratories, libraries, and programs are educational services
for which the student pays the going rate. He receives no grades or degree, but he gets an education. The
other alternative is to continue as a degree-granting institution without grades or with grades that do not rigorously discriminate in
quality of performance. Whether evaluation standards are stiff, lax, or non-existent, students desiring an education will get it. The second
alternative does not free the student from criticism, since one of the functions of a professor is to stimulate students
through criticism. It does free him from the pressure of playing the status game. The third alternative confers a graduate
status of dubious worth. The first alternative increases the value of the status conferred and the probability that the less
motivated student will emerge from Davidson with the education he came to get.

John B. Fine ‘71
Davidson College

(Editor’s Note: The following is a letter of appreciation to the entire Davidson College community.)

To the Editor:

During the past six years of Jim's illness, not a day has passed that we haven't been strengthened by the
interest, love, and prayers of you loyal friends. And now, added to all this, you have made us the recipients
of the Fund for this year. It is a very humbling experience to be loved in such a beautiful way
by so many wonderful people, and, undeserving though we may be, we accept this expression of your devotion with hearts
filled with gratitude. However, in doing so, we feel deeply indebted to you. Therefore, it is our hope that we
may not only make you aware of our sincere appreciation, but also repay you in some form or other for
caring as you have done.

James Y. Causey
Davidson College
