Che Davidsonian
A summer edition published in June, July, and August. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all
correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

RICH WILSON—Summer Editor-in-Chief

PAGE TWO June 1971

The Governance Report

Written by Trustee Dixon Phillips, Dean of the University of North Carolina Law School, the governance report at long last
clarifies what was previously a tangled web of courts and jurisdictional committees. The lines of authority now are distinct as
are the lines of appeal. The question as to whether the Dean of Students can function as both a counselor
and a disciplinarian is still to be decided. Although the trustees included a section allowing the dean to disqualify himself
in certain situations, the burden remains on the shoulders of Will Terry. Will’s performance in the past demonstrates his ability
to juggle these roles, but what happens when Will is no longer the dean?

The significance of this report, though, is that the policy-making function of student conduct is now to be shared by
the students, faculty, and administration on the Student Conduct Council. No longer does the faculty have to bear the burden
of student conduct. No longer will the faculty be damned by the students for legislating a morality. The burden now
falls in large measure on the shoulders of the students, who are equal in representation with the faculty on the
council. This is a milestone in that this is the first time the students have been equal with anybody on
anything. Rejoicing, however, will be only momentary. With increased power comes increased responsibility. It is important that the students demonstrate
that they can handle this power responsibly.

What makes this report a breath of fresh air in the foul-smelling history of Davidson documents is that a great
deal of thought has been given to the protection of students' rights. The rules are codified, and the sanctions enumerated.
That judicial proceedings will not appear on academic records is also encouraging. The governance committee now begins the second phase
of its work, that dealing with the relations between the faculty, students, administration, and trustees. Let’s hope the present attitude
of the trustees continues.

WHERE IS DAVIDSON GOING?

College Means Choosing Together

By HANSFORD EPES
Asst. Professor of German

Having been an accessory to asking students to describe where Western civilization is going, I can't very well turn down
responding to the trivialization of the question: Where is Davidson going?

Of course, the accomplished bull artist knows that the question must be answered by describing where Davidson has been. This
shows off knowledge, and also shows the part of the profile most clearly displayed by someone backing into an answer.
I'll avoid talking about where Davidson has been. I don’t really know; I’ve only been here, off and on, for
14 years. That’s not a long time. If 14 years — or four — aren't much in looking backward, they
aren't much in looking forward either. If you're going to ask where Davidson is going, you should be talking about
a long time. If we talk about where Davidson will be forty years from now we make a shaky assumption,
that there will BE a Davidson forty years from now. I'm not sure we can assume that. After all: how
much longer is someone going to pay a lot of money to be educated, or polished, at a place in
the middle of nowhere which can be of only limited service to him — or, hopefully, to her?

Let's get rid of the assumption, because it may be a bad one. That gets rid of the question, and
replaces it with new ones: who are we, and where can we go? Who are we? We are a small
liberal arts college which is located in the rural South. That's one definition. Another is that we are something like
1250 people who happen to come together in a common purpose, though rarely with a common understanding as to how
to achieve it. Or we are a name, and a set of buildings, and many people who have passed through
before us. And we are all of these things: institution, and immediate community, and forerunners.

Then again, it might be helpful to say what we aren’t. We aren’t large, or urban; we can’t help you
pursue your researches to the frontier. We can't provide an experiment near at hand for every possible stretch of the
curiosity. All we can do is hope to stretch that curiosity so that it knows how to direct itself and
how to criticize itself. These are some of our limits: they are geographical, they...

CECIL BURNEY

Davidson Still Lives In Past Despite Innovative Change

To the Class of 1974:

You may remember that at the beginning of this past school year, I spoke to you at an assembly which
was a part of freshman orientation. Now, the year which we started together is over. Do you remember what I
said at that time? The following is a summary of the text of my comments:

“I want to welcome you to Davidson — a strange sort of place in the country. A place steeped in
history, drenched in Southern culture, and washed over with a conservative heritage and a very old tradition.

“Davidson is also a place in trouble. Caught in a dynamic and moving time, this school still moves at a
snail's pace. The world looms around it; the school is being hemmed in.

“In recent years, the story of Davidson has become a story of a tragedy. This college has slowed to a
standstill. Whether this place will come out from that tragedy is up to all of us — to you and
to me, and to all of those associated with this school.

“These are some of the problems which I see before us:

“1. Too many people at Davidson are hung-up in archaic roles. Too many people separate their academic self from their
personal self, and they tend...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

are financial, they are inherent in the decision to try to do some things well. The limits should also provide
possibilities: the possibility to be an individual in a tribe, a member of a community with shared totems. That is,
in so many words, the small-college cliché — but if the words are empty, then let’s give up. The opportunity
not to be lost is the main advantage we have. Notice: the opportunity, not the inevitability. You can get lost
here, too. But it's sort of your decision. That is where I start worrying about “where we are going.” The
last few years have seen an upsurge in the use of language about community and cooperation. Too much rhetoric, I
suspect — because the reality hasn't really matched it. Community is possible only with mutual trust, and we've got a
lot of groups which don't trust each other — and on occasion have pretty good reasons not to. No flow
chart in the world can hide their personal lives from view. People could do that 20 years ago, but now,
it's deadly and damnable.

This institution still thrives on too many little Mickey Mouse and pedantic rules. The institution is frozen and inflexible. We
see a bad case of what might be called institutional rigidity.

“3. The dorms must be opened. There is no place for antiquated morality in the 1970s.

“4. The Code of Responsibility is an archaic document and is based on views and values of a former generation.
It sets up a police-like state on the campus with its strange set of rules, regulations, and punishments. We should
get rid of this terrible document.

“5. The Church relationship must go. For too long this school has been a school not for people, but for
Presbyterians. The Presbyterians don't contribute enough to support this place, and we would do better as a center of freedom
and learning if the church affiliation is dropped.

“6. The catalog is hypocritical and a farce. Many illusions are put forth by this College in that document.

“7. ROTC must go. This program has traditionally been a program designed to impose discipline on the campus. Its goal
is not to produce that sense of pulling together. No codes, no constitutions, no governance committees can force into community
a group of people unconcerned for each other and for the common goals. Sometimes, the image I have of Davidson
is of a group calling itself a commune, but in which no one is willing to wash the dishes, or
cook the food, or touch someone else, or stop a second person from hurting a third.

One of my vices is that I like words — a vice whose pleasures I recommend to everyone. ‘College’ is
a word. It means, loosely, “choosing together.” Look at both parts of the meaning. “Choosing:” to accept some things and
deny others, but to do it yourself — and maybe freedom is the right to limit yourself. “Together:” to exercise
that freedom with a genuine regard for what you do for others. We can talk about where we are going
when we can get together about where we are and why we are traveling with each other. And we aren't
going anywhere until we find agreement on that question.

“8. Generally, the place is just not very exciting. The college is too structured, too formal, and many of its
ideas are too old and cumbersome. No one around here seems very interested in doing anything about it, and apathy
reigns.

“As for suggestions for this coming year, I hope you will realize several things. This is not like high school.
You don’t have to wait until your senior year to do something to change your school so that it meets
your needs, and you don’t need to wait any time at all to be somebody. It’s time for you to
get involved NOW.

“Reach out to the people next to you. Get to know everyone here as well as you can. Become personally
involved in others, and be sure to begin to become aware, aware of who you are, yourself. There is nothing
more important than responding to people and becoming aware of yourself.

“Join together with your friends to press for changes that will make this school the best school you can imagine.
You must remember that Davidson will move only as fast as you push it.

“You may have a hard time here trying to be yourself, to say what you really feel, to become the
person you want to be. But don’t give up trying to make your personal life a good one, for that
may be the most important thing you will do here.

“I will always be interested in what you are doing. I want to get to know each of you very
well, and I hope that you will get to know me.

“Finally, I want to remind you that Davidson is a product of the past and still lives in the past
much of the time. You may become frustrated in your work here, but always know that what you are able
to do to bring Davidson to the present will benefit this place in the future. You bring great talent, skill,
and some spontaneity to this place. Let’s hope that your stay at Davidson will stimulate this school in new ways.”

I think you will now see, after a year at Davidson, that the school still lives in the past in
many ways. There have been some changes at Davidson in the past year which are worthy of some praise, but
it will be up to all of us next year to seek for those central changes which will bring Davidson
to where it should be for 1971. As long as Davidson retains its old ideas, students here will be wasting
their time, and once time is spent, it is hopelessly lost.
