Page Two April 2, 1971

Smith Emphasizes Need For Future Union Building
By WINDY MARCH
Staff Writer

Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith is somewhat worried about the future of the union, since it is
to be the site of the Davidson College Library. But he says the whole thing could be “a blessing in
disguise.”

Smith was emphatic about one thing: “If we don’t get a building eventually, we're lost. We'll have lost a symbol
of unity on the campus.” “Ideally,” he said, “we should build the new union at the same time that we
build the new library.” But Smith admitted that financial pressure could likely prevent this, and said that no plans either
for relocation of present union activities or for a new building are definite yet.

Smith seemed to think that a temporary lack of a union building would pose no problems which could not be
overcome by cooperation between members of the various dislocated activities, and with the faculty. “In fact,” he said, “such a
situation could help us trim the fat off the programs we run, and help us come up with ideas for
new programs. In some cases, permanent relocation of union activities away from the union building might turn out to be
beneficial. So it could be a blessing in disguise.”

Smith specifically mentioned the possibility of a small theater downtown to run college-sponsored movies, a relocated bookstore, and parties, mini-concerts,
or other activities in dorm lounges. “But we would still have to have a building around which these activities could
center,” he said.

Smith seemed fairly optimistic about the prospect of using the library as the new union building. “The location is worse
than this one, but it’s a better building,” he said. “A new building, in a location more central to student
life, would be better. But we could work with the library building.”

Smith said that as far as he knew, the earliest possible date for tearing down the union building is next
spring. “For the interim period,” he said, “there is a lot of relatively unused space on campus which could accommodate
our programs. And if we change our program of activities significantly during this time, then we could tailor a new
building specifically to our needs.”

Smith had earlier prepared a report on the functions the union would be able to maintain through library construction on
the site of the present union and had indicated which buildings on campus could be used for the activities.

White States 480 Accepted

Approximately 480 letters of acceptance were mailed to high school seniors yesterday by the Office of Admissions. “We're hoping to
have a freshmen class next year of 315,” stated H. Edmonds White, director of admissions and financial aid.

Asked why the number of acceptances was so large, White replied, “To reduce the financial overhead.” He had the impression
from individual cases that the quality of the applicants had not declined this year. According to White, the number of
applications declined because of rising costs, tight money, a fall in interest in college among high school students, and integration,
which created problems that diverted guidance counselors from college advising.

Freshmen will room next year in East, Cannon, and on the upper three floors of Watts.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Sports Editor:
JOE BARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Copy Editors:
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Ass't Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS
DARYL WILLIAMS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
ROGER MANLEY

Contributors this week:
Windy March, Howard Boyd, Dave Tierney, and Hal Canter.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$7.00.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

which now take place in the Ovens Union. Among the facilities to be utilized are the Chambers Dining Hall, Hodson
Hall, the Cunningham Fine Arts Center, and the college church. Smith prepared the report for the trustee library committee for
their meeting to select a site which they will recommend to the entire board in May.

By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

Diverse entertainment will be the watchword during Davidson’s Spring Frolics weekend, April 16-17, with folk singer Judy Collins heading the
list of varied activities sponsored by the college. Three concert groups, folk singer Steve Gillett, and carnival rides are also
scheduled for the weekend.

Miss Collins will make her first appearance at Davidson in five years on Friday night. She will sing a two-hour
concert in Love Auditorium, beginning at 8 p.m. “We wanted to get a really big act for this weekend,” said
Social Councilman Duff Bruce, “and we thought Judy Collins was the act that would appeal to most people on campus.”
Miss Collins, who has been nationally prominent for several years, is most recently known for her rendition of “Both Sides
Now” and “Amazing Grace.”

Following Miss Collins on Friday night will be Steve Gillett. He will perform in the Morrison Room starting at midnight.
Gillett, a California-based folk singer, appeared at Davidson last year. He is best known as the author of “I’m Back
on the Street Again,” a song which was popular a few years ago when recorded by the Seekers.

Saturday afternoon will feature a concert by The Southern Folk Festival. The Festival, making its third appearance at Davidson in
as many years, is a group of southern folk and country music singers who perform both individually and as a
group. Bruce said that the concert will be held outdoors if the weather is suitable, but that no location has
been picked yet.

Saturday night, beginning at 8 p.m., Dreams will give a two-hour concert in Love Auditorium. Bruce described the group as
“a rock group with brass, but a softer sound than Chicago. Some music critics that I’ve read like Dreams even
better than Chicago because of their softer sound,” said Bruce.

After the Dreams concert, there will be a blanket concert with Manhattan Transfer playing. The concert is presently scheduled for
Chambers Dining Hall, but it may be moved outside. Bruce said that the group plays generally rock and country-rock.

Slated for the entire weekend are carnival rides. The rides, to be set up on the lawn by the Union,
will include a ferris wheel, momentum cages, and the round-up. Bruce mentioned the possibility of having a Hungry during the
weekend, but said that plans have not been worked out yet. “I’m not sure about having a film over the
weekend, but I don’t think there will be one,” said Bruce.

Spencer Says Economy Cuts Non-Dorm Housing
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced this week that applications for off-campus living during the 1971-72 academic year will
not be accepted until the college reviews the present procedure. Spencer expressed concern that the dormitories are not being filled
to capacity. “We have 931 spaces for students,” said Spencer, “but because of attrition we get down to about 900
by the end of the year. Obviously it is not very economical for the college to have empty rooms,” he
said. “It is important that all the dormitories are filled.”

Spencer said this announcement was not actually a change in school policy, since all students are required to live on
campus unless there is no longer any space for them in the dorms. “This does not mean, however, that there
will be no students living off campus next year,” he said. “We just want to see where we stand in
regard to dormitory capacity before we allow students to live off campus next year.” Spencer indicated that the administration would
be finished with its evaluation within “a few weeks.”
