**The Davidsonian**
December 2, 1971

Page Three

SGA By-Law Revisions Proposed

AN ANALYSIS

By TOM BRUCE
Staff Writer

The latest attempt to revive the SGA by-laws could have a telling effect on the future of the Residence Hall
Association (RHA), and the election of campus officials.

If passed by the Senate, these by-laws would also give increased power to student body members who will be able
to serve greater numbers on SGA committees as well as overturn Senate action with greater ease than in the past.

The effect of the new guidelines will also be to reduce the amount of obsolete verbiage in the by-laws and
to abandon some of the old rules that "promoted inflexibility," according to Bill Ralston, Chairman of the Constitution committee.

The most major change seems to be that the new by-laws do not specifically designate the SGA Vice President as
president of the Residence Hall Association. Ralston stated that this move was intended to define the positions of SGA President
and Vice President a little more closely and to bridge the way for a separation of the legislative and executive
branches of student government.

Ralston said that he personally favored a plan that would "test the RHA by fire." He said that under the
new guidelines, the assembly would either succeed or collapse.

The new by-laws will also widen the field of candidates for various campus offices if passed. The old by-laws specified
that the SGA vice president be a member of the rising junior class, but the new by-laws allow for a
rising sophomore to run for the office. The SGA President and editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN, the Quips and Cranks, and
the Miscellany however will still be drawn from the rising senior class.

Furthermore, YMCA offices which were formerly pigeon-holed in explicit classes will now be open to and voted on by the
entire student body.

The new by-laws will also not designate exact meeting dates of various boards and councils but will leave these decisions
to appropriate student officials.

Provision was made for the seating of two new voting representatives in the Senate, selected among the residents of Gray
House and the off-campus students.

The new rules will also allow proxy voting in the Senate under certain specialized circumstances. Proxies will not be accepted
if candidates are nominated from the floor in an election, for instance, since the proxy would not reflect the full
voting slate.

Another substantial change that the new by-laws would affect is the conducting of referendums. At present, a two-thirds majority of
the entire student body is required to overturn a senate action. In the future, a two-thirds majority of those voting
would be sufficient to pass a referendum.

---

Bookbinder Dazzies As Bandolero Hero

A REVIEW
By TODD HOBBIE

Bandolero or Why Rosco Bookbinder Is a Good Boy begins in Valverde, Texas in 1867 and goes downhill from there.

Raquel Welch is her usual silicone self in this movie and no doubt her ace writers were quite pleased with
the lines they produced for her. She plays the part of a woman who was "a whore at thirteen" and
whose "family of twelve never went hungry." She is also a Mexican who finally gets back to her native Mexico
after such a long time away, or as she puts it, "This is the first time I have been in
my country since I left."

Raquel is not the central character in this drama of the Old West. She is definitely overshadowed by whoever it
is who plays Rosco Bookbinder, a young man shot through the waterbag wiping out his chances of ever saying "I
rode all over Mexico with July Johnson."

George Kennedy and James Stewart are OK in Bandolero, and sometimes one finds himself wondering when things were so hard
up for them that they took this movie.

Dean Martin is cast way over his head in Bandolero. One wonders if he ever gets over Raquel’s penetrating question,
"How does a man become an animal like you?" The question is asked at the first of the movie and
Martin seems to be in a fog for the duration.

Bandolero is not all bad, however. The color is by Deluxe and there is some mean Jew's harp music which
seems to reach out of the Morrison Room speaker system and grab for your very soul.

I really guess I should stop. I wouldn't want to ruin the show by telling you too much about it.
I’ve already given all the best parts and for that I apologize.

Bandolero is definitely a good movie to see on a Tuesday night when all you have to do is study.
It seems like a person could find better things to do on a weekend, though.

---

© 1971 Jos. Schlitz Brewing Co., Milwaukee and other great cities.

Sagittarius, Nov. 23-Dec. 21

A Sagittarian likes to share his friends. Even his Schlitz Malt Liquor.

People under your sign love freedom and like to take on a challenge. Taking a risk doesn't come. You're independent
and spirited. You say whatever you think, and sometimes you can be pretty blunt.

Despite the fact that you're plain spoken, people like you because you're gifted with bright optimism and an uncanny intuition.
And there's nothing you like better than sharing your ideas with friends.

Your ruling planet, Jupiter, gives you a lively, almost compulsive interest in taste, and sociability. Taking good times is what
Schlitz Malt Liquor is all about. You always introduce your friends to the Bull, because he's got the stuff you
admire. Sagittarius and the Bull—you're both brave, bold, and proud.

Nobody makes malt liquor like Schlitz. Nobody.
