Page Eight September 10, 1971

The Mauthsantat

Up ’n’ Coming

Annual Fall Convocation
Saturday, September 12
Monday, September 13
7:00 p.m. SGA Senate
Tuesday, September 14
4:30 p.m. Cake Race
8:00 p.m. Fine Film: "The Wages of Fear"
10:00 p.m. APO meeting
Wednesday, September 15
8:00 p.m. Open End: Junior Year Abroad
9:00 p.m. Union Coffee House
Thursday, September 16
7:00 p.m. Davidson College Flying Club
7:00 p.m. Open End: National Student Association
7:30 p.m. Football: Wake Forest
8:00-11:00 p.m. Mixer: Presbyterian Hospital School of Nursing
10:00 p.m. Christian Fellowship

By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

Summer plans to renovate the Carolina Inn, the Grey House, Erwin Lodge, Cannon Hall, and Duke Dormitory were for the most part complete as the first day of classes began this year.

The Carolina Inn (also known as the Helper Hotel or the Old Inn) was remodeled to resemble its nineteenth-century appearance as much as possible, but its function is to provide modern facilities for the honors college. Dean of the Honors College Frontis W. Johnston has already moved into the building, and other professors working in the honors program are in the process of transferring to their new offices. In addition to the offices downstairs, the building includes a large lounge-dining area, a fully-equipped kitchen, a guest suite for visiting professors associated with the honors program, and three seminar rooms upstairs.

The Carolina Inn was originally built as a home in 1837 and changed hands for various uses until the college purchased it in 1946. The cost of the work is estimated at $75,000, part of which is covered by a grant from the Surdna Foundation. The renovation was supposed to be completed by September 1, but some work on the exterior remains to be finished.

The Grey House, across from the President’s home on Main Street, was also remodeled to preserve the classic Georgian architectural style in which it was originally fashioned. Work on the house is complete, and at present, it is occupied by 11 Davidson co-eds. The building is furnished with living facilities for 14 women, with baths, a lounge, and limited kitchen equipment.

Erwin Lodge, once a popular meeting hall for community activities, was restored this summer also, and it lacks only a few light fixtures before completion. Located in a wooded area east of the campus, the lodge contains a large, heated recreation hall upstairs with facilities for serving refreshments. A downstairs apartment is already in use by a male occupant, but the building will provide residence for a young couple who will report maintenance needs to the college. The lodge was restored by a gift from Mrs. Robert Dyer, daughter of the late Prof. Erwin.

Cannon Hall was remodeled just as Sentelle Hall was a year before. This summer the dormitory received new furniture, doors, hardware, paint, and hallway lighting. Duke Dormitory underwent minor repairs in the showers and hallway lighting, and a new hall was furnished with carpet and recovered furniture.

By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

Continuing a tradition instituted by College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., the Fall Convocation honoring the Senior Class will be held at 11 a.m., September 22, in Love Auditorium. According to Greg Scott, assistant to the president, “The Fall Convocation is held to mark the beginning of the new academic year in addition to honoring the rising Senior Class.”

Morriss Abram, former president of Brandeis University, will speak in Love Auditorium on “The Relevance of Irrelevance.” In 1970, Abram ran for the U.S. Senate from New York, and he has had a continuing interest in higher education. Presently, Abram is a partner in the New York law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton, and Garrison. He is president of the Field Foundation and Chairman of the National Board of the United Negro College Fund. In addition, he is chairman of the education committee of the Citizens Union of New York City.

Clanton Williams will speak on “The American College in International Education” at a luncheon.in Chambers Dining Hall for seniors, their parents, and wives. A 1927 graduate of Davidson, Williams has spent most of his adult life in higher education. Between 1956 and 1961 he was president of the University of Houston. During Williams’ varied career he has served as an educational consultant and adviser in Burma, India, and Pakistan. Currently, Williams is serving as executive director of the Alabama Commission on Higher Education. Both Abram and Williams will be awarded a doctor of laws honoris causa at the convocation ceremony. Warner Hall will deliver the invocation, and Senior Class President Bill Lear will have a few opening remarks. Also scheduled to speak briefly is SGA President Danny Clodfelter. Sophomore John Douglas will receive the Alumni Award for having the highest academic average during the freshman year of the Class of 1974. The Thomas Jefferson Award of $500 will be presented to a faculty member during the Fall Convocation. The award “recognizes those personal and professional qualities which are as nearly as possible those which Thomas Jefferson would have recognized as essential to the political, social, and intellectual advancement of society,” Scott said. “We would like seniors to pick up their luncheon tickets by September 15 from the Dean of Students office,” said Scott.

Coeds Seek “Living Experiences”
By RUSS MERRITT

A variety of living experiences, a different educational perspective, and “just plain fun” are the major reasons for the presence of Davidson’s female exchange students, according to the 11 coeds. Ten of the women are here under the Eight-College Exchange Program, operated in conjunction with three men’s and four women’s schools in Virginia. The other coed is a participant in the newly initiated Queens-Davidson exchange program. “We've been in convents all our lives, so we’ve decided to come to a monastery for a year,” commented Grange Roller, a junior from Mary Baldwin. “Davidson offers a totally new and different environment for going to school.” “We wanted a change, and we honestly wanted to have some fun,” Bobbie Blackwood, a Hollins junior, said. “We didn’t come here just because it’s an all-male school. Rather, we came because it’s not all-girl.”

The coeds all agreed that they decided to come to Davidson because it is very different from their previous educational experiences. “We wanted to get away from artificial sexual segregation, from superficial dating attitudes, and from the superficial dating situation. We want to be treated as people for once,” one coed stated. Mary Baldwin, like Davidson a school affiliated with the Presbyterian Church, is by far the best represented of the five schools sending coeds. Juniors Roller, Martha Taylor, Sandy May, Lindi Leuders, and Cathy Cross all are Baldwin students, as are sophomores Jennet Robinson and Marie Ferrara. Blackwood is the only Hollins representative, while Jane Farrar is the only coed from Randolph-Macon Woman’s. Mimi Bain is the sole Sweet Briar student, and Kay Behrens is the only coed from Queens.

The coeds have been amused by the second glances and outright stares they’ve received. “Sure, there’s a lot of staring going on, but we expected it,” Roller said. “After all, we’re a handful of girls on an all-male campus.” “There’s staring going on both ways, I think,” one coed said, “We're watching the Davidson students watch us.” Blackwood said she was wary when she first reached the Davidson campus, and several others shared her feelings. “I didn’t really know what to expect, and I didn’t want everyone staring at me as a thing.” All the coeds seemed to agree that the majority of the Davidson student body probably views them as husband-hunters. According to one coed, such an attitude toward the few women students is unfortunate “because we're not hunting mates and we don't want our experiences here to be limited by such a view.” The coeds all say they are favorably impressed by Davidson. “I can’t understand why more girls don’t come here on this program,” Robinson said. “The campus is beautiful, and the students have been extremely nice,” May said. “I get the feeling that some are even nervous around us.” (Staff Photo by Doty)