SHOULD DAVIDSON GO COED? — Bevan Expresses His Full Support

By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

“Academically Davidson could go coed right now without any problem.” Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan made this
statement in a recent interview in which he expressed his stand on the coeducation issue. Bevan outlined three reasons why
he felt it is imperative that Davidson make a definite commitment to coeducation in a certain time period.

“If an institution has a unique feature academically, then in some way everything else in the college is related to
it,” he said. “From observation we see that there are in existence all-men’s and all-women's colleges,” Bevan continued. “Consequently there
must be something about the individual institution which reflects why it is geared toward one sex or another.”

In examining the academic programs of men’s and women’s colleges, Bevan said that he could detect very little difference. The
question then is: If both men’s and women’s colleges are academically similar, why are they segregated by sex? “The only
answer I can see is that it must be tradition,” he said.

Bevan noted that the roles of men and women 40 or 50 years ago were very different than they are
today, and the colleges reflect this. Women were trained to be mothers and thus were sent to finishing schools where
they were instructed in cultural areas. Meanwhile, men went to college to be trained in professions. “But the roles have
changed now,” the vice president said. “Women are entering professions just as men are, and the training for a profession
is the same for both men and women.

“No longer can the purpose of an institution be differentiated sexually,” he said. “My second point is that the four
years spent by a man or woman in college is a critical period in their development,” he said. In isolating
men from women during this period, Bevan said that men may reinforce their teenage conception of women. “In their isolation,
they tend to consider man to be superior to woman,” he said. “And they conceive women to be a pleasure
of man rather than another human being.”

Bevan also noted that it is at the college age when the interest between the sexes becomes keen. “Consequently, during
this formative period it is important that men and women get to know each other, not by going to bed
each weekend, but by growing with each other in the academic situation,” he said. “You tend to learn more through
relationships, thus coeducation seems to be a good learning situation,” he said.

Bevan’s third factor in the coeducation issue concerns the inclusion of women in the academic institution. “Much of what goes
on between men and women are things intellectual and emotional,” he said. “Both are bonds and both are equally important.
Although many like to think that Davidson College only should concern itself with the intellectual aspect of human development, we
also must deal with the attitudes and feelings of the students as well,” he continued. “Only coeducation totally meets these
needs.”

Bevan outlined five main obstacles to coeducation which must be overcome if coeducation is to be implemented in the near
future. “My greatest concern is financial,” he said. “If Davidson is to commit itself to coeducation within a certain time
period, the institution must also have a plan to increase the endowment. This is essential to maintaining the quality of
the college. I won't make a move toward coeducation until I am assured we can meet the increased financial need,”
he said.

Bevan also expressed concern over the increase in the physical plant which would be needed to accommodate 500 women. “The
problem is that many shy away from approving a plan for increased living facilities,” he said. “But unless a commitment
is made to drive for a certain goal, the question will never be settled.”

The vice president also mentioned that the alumni will have to be convinced of the need for coeducation. Faculty members
as well must become accustomed to women in the classroom. “If coeducation is to succeed, the women must be accepted
by their professors,” Bevan said. Except for the financial problem, however, Bevan felt all these roadblocks could be summed up
in his fifth consideration — that of tradition. “If we can just get over the idea that Davidson is a
men’s school, we will have taken a long step in the direction of a (See COEDUCATION, Page 8)

Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
SEPTEMBER 24, 1971

SGA Seeks Sale of Beer On Campus
RUSSELL CARTER
ALLEN WILLIAMS
StaffWriters

A resolution requesting that President Spencer, in conjunction with the College Union, immediately apply for a license to sell beer
and wine on campus passed the SGA Senate Tuesday by a unanimous vote.

Candidates Point Toward Sept. 28

BY JOHN KEPCHAR

In the fall student elections to be held Tuesday, Sept. 28, over 34 students will be on the ballot as
candidates for vacancies on the Senate, seats on the Hearing Committee and conduct council, and freshman cheerleader.

Though the deadline for candidates to register for most offices was Tuesday, Sept. 21 at 5 p.m., juniors and seniors
will be able to register for the Hearing Committee through 5 p.m. Thursday, said Lear. This is due to a
lack of candidates having signed to run, probably because this is the first year there has been such a committee,
Lear said.

Under the new governance system, the Hearing Committee will try all offenses which formerly would have been tried by the
Regulations Court and the Honor Court.

Seniors Tom Sinks and Steve Williams have signed for the Hearing Committee. Juniors Jim Brown and David Varner are running
for the Conduct Council.

Running from Belk Dorm, which has two dorm Senate seats, are Jim Coggin, Bob Cunningham, Steve LeResche, John Douglas, Mack
Mitchell, Gary Boliek, Tom Ioanes, and Duncan Baker. Stuart McCracken is running unopposed for the Duke Dorm Senate seat.

Those who will seek to represent Little in the Senate are Frank Dana, Danny Berry, and George Kaneklides. Harris Ricks,
Ricky Deal, and John Hornickel will compete for the Residence Hall Senate seat from Watts Dormitory. The Richardson seat will
be sought by Bo Phillips, Larry Spears, and John McCarney. From Sentelle, freshmen Gus Succop and Duncan Baker are running.
Three freshmen, David Foerster, Thomas Parks, and Stern Anderson, will seek to represent Cannon Dormitory.

Running for Freshman Senator-at-large will be Bill Smith, Steve Canterbury, Robert Corlew, Vince Rabil, and Buck Farrow. David Craven and
Andy Chance have signed for Freshman Cheerleader.

Sophomore Senator Doug Brown, who presented the resolution, pointed out that a recent state law has made the sale of
beer and wine legal and that Duke University has already legalized the sale of such on campus.

Scott Keeter pleaded the case of WDAV, explaining that the radio station, built piece by piece over a period of
several years, was in deep trouble due to equipment failure and the lack of money needed to pay a qualified
engineer. “I think that the solution to the problem is a new studio equipped for FM rather than AM transmission.
This is the perfect time to construct a new studio since the old one will have to go when the
Union is torn down,” he said. “The cost would be $7,000 to build a new studio, and a $2,000 annual
budget,” Keeter noted.

The Senate postponed any further action until the problem is studied by the Activities Fee Committee, co-chaired by Senior Senator
Cecil Burney. Bill Mier was appointed to fill in the vacancy of a Junior Senator at large, created because the
present senator, Doug Sittler, is now studying abroad.

Brown's motion read: “Let the Senate go on record as favoring the sale of beer and wine on campus. Furthermore,
let the Senate request that College President Samuel R. Spencer, in conjunction with the Union, immediately seek a permit to
sell beer and wine on campus.”

October 1 will be the first day on which applications from colleges for a beer and wine license will be
accepted, and this revision in North Carolina statutes applies only to private colleges and universities. Brown voiced the hope that
beer and wine could be sold to Davidson students at the lowest price, preferably at cost. However, it was pointed
out that the college might attempt to turn this into a money-making venture in light of its present financial condition.

Keeter mentioned that he had reviewed the budget approved last year, and he felt that the funds were available for
WDAV. As one source of funding, Keeter suggested that some of the money normally going to the yearbook might be
used.

WDAV faces the problem of being run out of three dorms by the fluorescent lights which tend to destroy reception,
the inability of the station to reach the off-campus faculty, administration, and coeds due to limited AM power, and the
unpopularity of its educational programs.

(Staff Photo by Barnes)

COUNSELOR OR DISCIPLINARIAN

Davidson’s Dean of Students not only has to juggle different roles but he also has to survive severe arm twisting
by certain national fraternities desiring to go off campus. Contrary to circulating rumors, however, Will’s latest calamity occurred on the
tennis courts as he was back-peddling in retreat.
