By JOE EARLE Sports Editor

When searching for a word to describe the Davidson soccer team, captain Dick Levan could only say “magic.”

EXCITING Soccer star Seraphin Gbari fires at the goal.

“What else can you say about a team that has scored 16 goals in its first two games?” he asked.

The ‘Cats have indeed racked up 16 goals in their first two games of the season, downing Methodist College 8-1 here and defeating N.C. Wesleyan 8-0 in Fayetteville. The team scoring has been fairly equally divided, but exchange student Seraphin Gbari has performed extremely well, scoring three times against Methodist and once against Wesleyan.

“Gbari played an amazing game against Methodist,” Levan said. “He would get the ball at midfield and take it down to score unassisted.”

Two freshmen also put in good showings. Joe Duncan scored against Wesleyan and Jack Linard claimed two goals at Rocky Mount. Joe Yochem, Bill Vaughn, and Johnny Robison all scored in the Methodist game, and Brian Tarr added two goals. Alex Coblentz, Dick Spinner, Tim Winter, and Johnny Robison scored in the Wesleyan game.

Today the Wildcats travel to The Citadel to face their first Southern Conference game. There is some apprehension about the game being called due to bad weather. Tuesday the booters will host Western Carolina here at Davidson.

“This game will be our first real test,” Levan said. “Western Carolina has a fine team, the first strong team we will face.” Western Carolina has been highly ranked during the early season.

Levan also commented on the size of the crowd attending the Methodist game. “There were as many people as last year’s championship game,” he said, “and they really enjoyed the show.”

Coeds Enter Sports World In The Role Of Participants

By JENNET ROBINSON and MARIE FERRARA

As co-ed managers of the soccer team, we have been exposed to a completely new aspect of the sports world for us, that of being more of a participant than a spectator. We make no claims to having mastered our soccer managing jobs, for our duties are not that regulated. Actually, we are two girl Fridays.

Wildcats Lose To Indians, Face Mounties In Charlotte

By CHARLIE TERRELL Asst. Sports Editor

William and Mary and Appalachian State University are fairly certain of their finish in the Southern Conference football race. The Indians appear to be rolling toward a repeat of last year’s championship, as their 40-14 defeat of the Wildcats was their third conference victory without a loss. Appalachian, on the other hand, is the newest member of the conference and plays only two games against member schools. These games do not count in the conference standings.

The Wildcats furnish the opposition for the Mountaineers tomorrow at 2 p.m. at the Charlotte Memorial Stadium. The game will mark the first meeting between the two schools in football.

The Mountaineers carry a 1-1-1 worksheet into the contest. In their opening game, a scoreless tie with conference foe Furman, the Apps defense was firm, but an erratic offense could not produce any points. The following week the Apps squeezed out a 28-24 victory over East Tennessee State. Last week, however, arch-rival Western Carolina blanked the Mounties 26-0.

Coach Jim Brakefield, in his first season at Appalachian after building a powerhouse at Wofford, has installed the famed “Wishbone Y” offense. In the “Y” the tackles split out further than usual and the two halfbacks and the fullback form a triangle behind the quarterback.

Wildcat assistant coach Alex Gettys described defending against the Wishbone as “playing a giant chess game and trying to outguess your opponent.” Gettys noted that the Wishbone enables the offense to employ at least three backs to one side of the line at any time. He also pointed out that the many possible formations place an added burden on the defensive end, middle linebacker, and secondary.

The Mounties are blessed with a versatile senior halfback, Clayton Deskins. A wide receiver last year, Deskins is at tailback now and has gained 312 yards rushing in three games. Injuries have dented the Mountie backfield corps. Fullback Ned Mullen broke his collarbone against East Tennessee, while Pat Gainer suffered a severe ankle sprain against Western Carolina and will not see action tomorrow. Other backs to watch are fullback Tim Cokely and quarterbacks Steve Loflin and Ray Haskett. Neither Loflin nor Haskett is a feared runner, but Haskett has a strong passing arm. Loflin will start the game, and Gettys is expecting the Apps to open their attack more against the ‘Cats.Mounties have an imposing line, good linebackers, and a questionable secondary. Eddie Biggs and Steve Chapman hold down the defensive end slots. Wayne Fletcher has been a two-time all-district tackle, and he will be complemented by either Ron Reynolds or Anthony Dale. Roger Richardson, the only returning letterman in the secondary, underwent an appendectomy prior to the season, and his playing status is uncertain. Seniors Roger Hinsaw and Wes Beam mix with sophomores Doug Humble, Ricky Spencer, and Frank Wey as deep backs.

Despite the defeat by William and Mary, Gettsy explained that the loss was not as bad as the score indicated. “They made three great catches on us to set up scores, and if they keep on doing that they'll beat a lot of people,” he noted. Defensive end Jimmy Hardison was sorely missed against the Indians, as their backs constantly gained yardage off-tackle and around end. Hardison is expected to play tomorrow. A bright spot in the loss was the passing of quarterback Rick Kemmerlin, who came off the bench near the end of the first half and played the remainder of the game. His continued improvement could cause problems for the Apps secondary.

The stage is set for a real struggle tomorrow, as the Mounties will be trying to prove that they belong in the conference, and the Wildcats will be fighting to gain their long-awaited first victory.

Our routine is hardly boring, for you will find our duties a regular menage of activities: treating blisters and muscle cramps, filling water buckets (and carrying them up and down that hill), handing out salt and dextrose tablets, making and distributing posters, and keeping up that bright smile (this helps the morale during 95-degree practice weather). As modern-day combinations of Clara Barton and Charles Atlas, we do manage to have fun. Well, maybe not so much fun as certain eye-opening experiences. Such as being seated inside the goal in order to ensure more accurate aim during practice goaling. It’s strange how one can put all of one’s confidence as well as life in the hands of a (hopefully agile) goalie.

Our executive manager, Kenny Jones, tends to keep us on our toes, however, and particularly when we begin to lag by emptying a full water bucket over one of our unassuming heads. Our fearless leader will go to any extremes to keep his underlings in line. From the looks of practice and Saturday's victory over Methodist, the team appears more than ready for an exciting season. The ‘Cats face twelve rough teams this year: Methodist, N. C. Wesleyan, The Citadel, Western Carolina, Furman, Duke, Pfeiffer, Belmont Abbey, Guilford, St. Andrews, East Carolina, and N. C. State. We are particularly awaiting our game with The Citadel in Charleston today because we both get to go home.

Freshman Squad Opens With Evans

The Davidson Wildkittens will open their season tomorrow night with a game against Evans College at 8 p.m. at A. L. Brown High School in Kannapolis. The freshmen have fielded a large team with almost fifty players on the roster. Tom Stevens has taken over as coach of the team, replacing Gene McEver. Stevens is receiving coaching assistance from four injured varsity players. Billy Colvin will serve as offensive line coach, and Sandy Carnegie will work with the defensive line. Mike Kelly is aiding Stevens as offensive back coach, and Jeff Lynn is working with the defensive backs.

“We have no real idea of how good we are,” Stevens said. “We haven't had as much time as we would like, but I think we're ready.” “It’s hard to get much time to really work on the things that the team needs,” he added, “since we help the varsity most of the week.” Stevens said that he had little knowledge of the Evans team. “Our biggest trouble at the moment is in linebackers,” he said. “We don't have enough depth in that position.” The backfield for the ‘Kittens will be of fairly good size, with 6 feet David Harper at quarterback, 6-1 Dave Sharenko at slotback, 6-1 Foney Mullins at half, and 5-11 Steve Still at half. “We will use primarily a Davidson style of attack,” Stevens said, “so that the freshmen can become acquainted with the varsity’s offense.” The next freshman game will be Oct. 9 at Furman University.

Fall Baseball Begins

The Wildcat baseball team plays the second game of their fall season Monday, Oct. 4, against Belmont Abbey. The fall season is designed to allow freshmen and sophomores interested in playing during the regular season to get experience.