Page Six
December 3, 1971

Clemson 8
East Carolina 11
Furman 17
Appalachian 21
NC. State

1971 VARSITY BASKETBALL SCHEDULE

29-30 Charlotte Invitational Tourney (Georgia Tech, Rutgers, VPI)

Jan.
1 William & Mary
4 St. Johns
8 West Virginia
12 Pittsburgh
15 Richmond
18 VMI
22 West Virginia
26 Princeton
29 Wake Forest

Feb.
1 East Carolina
3 VMI
5 The Citadel
8 Furman
12 South Carolina
16 Duke
21 Dayton
26 South Carolina

March
2-4 Southern Conference Tournament Charlotte

Greenville, N. C.
here
here
Raleigh
here
Jamaica, N. Y.
Morgantown, W. Va.
Charlotte
here
Lexington, Va.
Charlotte
Charlotte
Winston-Salem
here
here
Charleston, S. C.
Greenville, S. C.
Columbia, S. C.
Charlotte
Charlotte
Charlotte
Greenville, S. C.

Booters Take Second SC Title
By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

Gone but not forgotten. That old cliché summarizes well this year’s soccer season at Davidson. The Wildcats played through their
regular season with only two losses, and then culminated the year with a 1-0 win over William and Mary on
Nov. 20 for the Southern Conference championship.

In the championship game, Davidson faced what head soccer coach Harry Fogleman called a good William and Mary squad. As
the score indicates, the game was a tight defensive struggle. Brian Tarr hit Dick Spinner with a perfect pass, and
Spinner booted in the game’s only goal with nine minutes left in the first period. Only in the second period
did William and

Exam-Saddled Gridders Fall In Final SC Games
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

Put yourself in the place of a Davidson football player for a moment, and try to picture yourself butting heads
at practice and then returning to your room and studying for final exams. This unenviable task faced the Wildcats as
they prepared for their final game with The Citadel, and although the 'Cats were on the short end of a
47-7 score, head coach Dave Fagg feels that the difference between the teams is not that great.

Fagg gave full credit to The Citadel, terming them an explosive team, possibly the best in the conference. "I don’t
see how they lost three games," he noted. “The academic calendar definitely had an effect on our play, and it
was really not fair for our men to have to go through that during the week of a game,” Fagg
explained.

In the game with the Bulldogs, the ’Cats fell behind early and could never overcome the superior manpower of their
foe. Quarterback Scotty Shipp scrambled for 34 yards and the ‘Cats' lone touchdown, but was forced to the sidelines later
with a strained knee. His replacement, Rick Kemmerlin, had been plagued with throwing arm ailments and had to yield to
sophomore Steve Keller.

“Steve did a fine technical job of play execution after he loosened up, and he proved to be a real
competitor in a tight situation,” commented Fagg. Keller tried to rally the ’Cats in the second half, but his inexperience
was apparent.

Prior to the contest with the Bulldogs, the ’Cats lost on successive weeks to East Carolina 27-26 and to conference
champion Richmond 14-7. Against the Pirates, the ’Cats had the see-saw battle wrapped up until the last few minutes, when
the Bucs drove to score. Tim Dameron smothered a low pass from QB John Cazzaza on the questionable touchdown play.

Highlighting the Wildcat scoring were Johnny Ribet with three tallies and Shipp, who had his best afternoon passing. The contest
with the Spiders saw the ‘Cats turn in a supreme overall effort, carrying the winners into the final two minutes
with a 7-7 deadlock. A long bomb pass play stunned the ’Cat defenders and fans, as the upset bid fell
short.

The ’Cats mounted a last-ditch effort to score in the waning seconds, but two passes fell incomplete inside the Spider
ten-yard line.

In summarizing the season, Fagg defined two degrees of winning and applied these to the Wildcats. “There are two types
of winning, the first involving total commitment, 100% effort and teamness, and the second being the scoreboard. As a coach,
I try to affect the lives of young men in a positive way, and I also try to win.”football games,”
Fagg elaborated. The ‘Cats posted only one scoreboard win, but Fagg insists that they be known as winners in the
other respect. “It was hard to keep coming back from the defeats, but we just tried to live with them
and work a little harder to improve,” he concluded.

170 N. Main
Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Field Jackets — P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N. C.

Mary outplayed the ’Cats, with the second half being all Davidson. Fogleman’s booters had one shot hit the uprights and
two hit the crossbar in the last two periods. In the meantime, Davidson was completely shutting off the Indians’ offense.
Heinz-Helmut Bernhardt, an exchange student who brought his shoes from West Germany, did a particularly good job. He guarded the
William and Mary star, Donald McCarthy, and held him to just three shots, none of which was even close to
going in. As a team, the Wildcats held William and Mary to just six shots, while shooting 19 times themselves.

This season will not soon be forgotten among soccer buffs at Davidson. The team set a Davidson record by scoring
55 goals on 306 shots during the 13-game campaign. The opponents scored only 19 goals on 123 shots. The 11-2
mark posted was one of the best ever for a Wildcat soccer team. Fogleman was very pleased with the season.
He said, “The team turned out better than I anticipated. The freshmen and international students turned out well. Both did
an excellent job.”

The two leading scorers for the booters this year were Dick Spinner and Rockeyed Seraphin Gbari. Spinner scored 12 points,
and Gbari had seven. Spinner expressed disappointment that the ’Cats had lost to both A.C.C. teams they faced, but he
too felt that the team was more successful than he thought it would be at the beginning of the season.
Gbari, probably the most exciting player on the squad, agreed with Spinner on the last point. He said he liked
the overall spirit of the team. “The whole team shared victory and defeat. When we lost, no one blamed one
person for the loss,” he said. “And everyone tried to help others.”

Gbari, who has played on all the soccer teams ever since he entered school in the Ivory Coast, and who
brought his soccer shoes to Davidson from Africa after he saw mention of the soccer team in a catalogue the
college sent him, sees a great future for the game at Davidson.

Earn at home addressing envelopes. Rush stamped, self-addressed envelope.
P. J. MYERS
Rt. 1, Box 400
Summerville, S. C. 29483

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagna — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

DEAL’S RESTAURANT AND GRILL
663-4141
4 Miles North of Davidson
Steaks — Seafood — Plate Lunches
Sandwiches
6 a.m. ’til Midnight
Closed Monday

If you crooned with the early Elvis Presley (“Love Me Tender”) ... let your radio blare out “So Rare” by
Jimmy Dorsey ... wore white bucks, pink shirts, peg pants, or bobby socks ... bought all the Platters records; later,
the Lettermen, Association, and Vogues ... and today Chicago, Blood, Sweat, & Tears ... and still Elvis ... then you
understand why WBT Radio's “Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame” is such a hit. Nostalgia is invading fashion, art, and
literature, and WBT now invades the world of music, as far back as 1950. Mike Ivers, Music Director of WBT,
hosts the five-hour show ... and he does far more than spin discs. Between each song he tells about the
artists and relates other interesting tidbits concerning style, era, etc. Mike receives an avalanche of mail from up and down
the eastern seaboard, filled with requests for “Special Favorites.” You might say that WBT Radio has become a thing of
the past... at least for five hours a week. The “Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame” ... from 7 till
Midnight.
