Page Six April 2, 1971

Under the organization of Dick Levan and Zack Mobley, soccer and rugby clubs are being formed this spring for any interested Davidson students. According to Levan, interest in soccer has become so great that the formation of a club has been undertaken both for students not involved in varsity play and varsity players who wish to work out during the off-season. The club hopes to field two teams which will compete twice a week in regulation games, both with themselves and amateur clubs from the Charlotte area.

TEN AN INNING
Wildcat hurler Rick Pipan threw only 75 pitches in the VMI game.

Students Form Soccer, Rugby Clubs
Working with Levan in the organization of the club are Ranier Langenburg and Robin Gray. During the weekly practices and inter-team play, lessons will be offered for the club members in both the fundamentals and strategy of soccer. Levan stressed that the club is open to any student and will be both recreational and educational. "Basically the aims of the club are to have a good time and to help the players stay in shape," Levan stated. "We hope this will be both a chance for people that are interested in the game to learn about it, and for varsity players to stay in practice."

Even though over sixty students have already signed up for the program, Levan said that there has been some friction with the administration due to a proposed ten per cent cut in the soccer budget. "We are having a hard time getting equipment," he said. "Both the soccer and the P.E. departments are reluctant to let us use the equipment we need to get started." The cut in funds would also prevent the team from taking a proposed trip next year. At present, all the finances for the club come from individual donations. Though "quite shocked and upset," Levan said the efforts of the club would not be stymied. He mentioned that several films of international games had been...

Improved Golfers Open At Furman
By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

With a team "much improved" according to Athletic Director and Coach Tom Scott, the 'Cats golf team teed off its new season yesterday at the Furman Invitational. Entered in the meet for the 'Cats were senior Doug Clark, sophomores Rusty Boyd, Scott Sheftall, Bill Guerrant, and freshmen Dick Spinnex and Jim Ray. Scott commented that team potential is definitely improved this year, and more important, the team is young. He was skeptical, however, of expecting too much at this first meet due to the limited practices since spring break. Snow cancelled the first match against Rutgers last Thursday.

Though improved, Scott has presented the team with a very tough schedule that includes Duke, North Carolina, N.C. State, and the Chris Schenkel Invitational in Georgia. Scott also said, "I am trying to schedule a match with national power Wake Forest. I like to give the team very challenging competition." Concerning the Southern Conference, he stated that at this time both Furman and East Carolina "look better on paper than we do," but he expects a close battle for the championship. The Wildcats will be playing their home matches at the Charlotte Country Club. (Staff photo by Lyle)Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Ordered and will be shown for instructional purposes during this term. Headed by Zack Mobley, the ‘Cats Take Pair, Entertain Spiders. The Wildcat baseball team meets the Spiders from the University of Richmond here tomorrow afternoon in a doubleheader. Tuesday, the ‘Cats were defeated by the Cavaliers of the University of Virginia 7-3, but they bounced back to polish off the Keydets of VMI 1-0 and 3-0 in a doubleheader on Wednesday. Coach Tom Stevens has been pleased with the performance of this year's squad, particularly the pitching. In the first of the games against VMI, Rick Pipan threw a total of 75 pitches, or roughly 10 an inning. Pipan is presently 3-0 with an E.R.A. of 0.56.

Davidson also has plans to field a rugby club. The club is holding practices twice a week, and Mobley is working to arrange a schedule of games with other schools in the area. The rugby club has been operating for three years since Mobley organized it as a freshman, but played only one match last fall. Mobley indicated that he intends to have a much fuller schedule for the spring season. Both the soccer and rugby clubs are open to any Davidson students. Any interested persons should contact either Levan or Mobley or check the announcement posted in the Union and Chambers.

According to Stevens, the greatest problem presently facing the team is their inability to get clutch hits. Leading the team in hitting are Harold Wilkerson and Bill Barnhill, batting .380 and .390 respectively. Stevens is also impressed with shortstop Jack Willits, who was out with an injury most of last season. In the first VMI game, Willits drove in the only run with a seventh-inning double. Weather conditions have hurt the team during the last weeks, causing a rescheduling of several games and a loss of practice time.

Next week, the ‘Cats open a string of home games, kicking off with the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill. The UNC game will be particularly challenging to Stevens because he will be playing against his former college coach.

SCORES

PDT

Relay Set For April 17

Davidson College will host the annual Davidson relays April 16. Eighteen schools from across the South will be competing in fourteen events. Competing in the relays will be Berry College, West Georgia College, Carson-Newman, Pembroke State University, Elon College, Guilford College, Catawba College, and Appalachian State University. Also in the competition will be High Point College, Mars Hill College, Cumberland College, Campbell College, Emory University, Western Carolina University, Milligan College, Davidson, and Gardner-Webb.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagna — Salads — CHOICE STEAK
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Tastee-Freez of Cornelius
892-8468
10-9 P. M.
BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET
“It’s Incomparable”
Sandwiches — Pizza — Sundaes
50 FLAVOR SHAKES

PANTS EAST
1522 East Fourth St.
“Largest selection of flares, jeans, bell-bottoms in Charlotte”
Owned & Operated by people who know what you want.