Che Davidsonian ~ “THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

-RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR APRIL 23, 1971

The Stone Wall

It may be a waste of editorial space and energy to continue to knock our heads against the stone wall
of closed faculty meetings. For we are convinced that any proposals to open these meetings to students are inevitably doomed
to failure. Some comments are necessary, however, if just to keep the professorial ranks honest in their deliberations and communications
with the students.

Faculty members have complained for years about the irresponsibility of the Davidson student. Many professors are convinced that students here
are, on the whole, indolent, apathetic, unmotivated, and immature. And their insights are not very far from the truth. What
these members of the faculty have failed to realize, however, is that the irresponsible nature of the students here is
built upon the fact that they have never been allowed to act responsibly while at Davidson. The students have their
token government, their token leaders, and their token representation, but when it comes down to the nitty-gritty of making the
basic decisions affecting their life and lifestyle at Davidson, they have absolutely no authority.

Therefore, it seems to us that students should be allowed to attend faculty meetings. Opening faculty meetings would offer this
campus the opportunity for educational relationships that it has never before seen. It would offer both the students and the
professors for the first time a chance to honestly exchange ideas outside of the sterile confines of the classroom and
the academic situation. It could serve to show students that professors are human, and it might demonstrate to the faculty
that students, when given a position requiring responsible action, can respond quite intelligently and maturely. Even though we do realize
that the faculty will destroy any proposals to open its meetings, we can still hope for a miracle. For perhaps
someday the Davidson professors will realize that honest communication isn’t really painful, that change isn’t really that difficult, and that
students aren’t really second-rate citizens.

Words And Deeds

Community talk is fine, it sounds good to hear it from students and administrators. It’s just unfortunate that performance does
not follow from the words. Again the college has decided that in times of financial stress that cuts will be
made in an area which concerns primarily students and the business office, the position of clinical psychologist.

The failure to renew Dr. Hall’s contract is difficult to accept. We have confidence that Dr. Werkman is competent to
handle the position but question whether or not he can be as effective as a man from outside the continuing
community. He is still connected with the regular college, students will still have him for course work, he will still
be listed in the catalog. The clinical psychologist is here for the benefit of the students. Davidson can be a
trying and exasperating place. It would only seem reasonable for the students to have a role in the decision on
the clinical psychologist. Unfortunately, this was not the case. The students have shown a desire to have a psychologist from
outside the continuing community, a man with whom they have only their personal contact. The senate clearly voiced this sentiment
at Monday’s meeting. Yet the students were not in on the decision and their ideas seem to have been pushed
by no one in the case.

Davidson students need a clinical psychologist. In asking Dr. Workman to accept the position the administration has declined to ask
student advice and has put Dr. Workman at a disadvantage before he begins his work.

BOBBY ALLEN

Stanton Kaye: ‘A Biggie’

Stanton Kaye reminded me of the movie “Exodus” the first time I saw him. Or maybe he reminded me of
Sal Mineo in “Exodus.” If Sal Mineo had a fat kid brother with bushy hair who couldn’t hack the kibbutz
scene and decided to go back to Brooklyn and open a deli, it would be Stanton Kaye.

Stanton Kaye does not run a deli, he’s a filmmaker. I met him at the USA Film Festival last month
in Dallas. It was between screenings; and we were in the lobby of the Bob Hope Theatre at SMU. He
was wearing his khaki shirt and smoking a cigarette, and just came up and started talking to me and some
kids from SMU who were manning the ticket table. The conversation was a series of non sequiturs about the weather,
places to go in Dallas, going to Six Flags over Texas—everything but filmmaking. I thought he was some freak grad
student attending the festival. After he went outside with some guys to throw a frisbee, Kit Carson, co-director of the
festival, came up to me and said, “Oh, I see you were talking with Stanton. He's quite a guy, eh?”
For all I knew, Stanton could have been a potted plant. So I gave Kit a what-are

LETTER

Trio Cry For Foresight

To the Editor:

We have found it. Davidson College entertainment is no longer a mystery. It is all very clear now. Yesterday, while
strolling through the College Union, I came upon an open briefcase. Being a curious soul, I bent down to examine
it, when lo and behold, a folder fell out of it. It plopped open beforemy eyes and there, in black,
brown, and white was a contract. Breathing rapidly over my find, I summoned two friends who were nearby. We were
astonished by what we discovered. The contract was with an entertainment booking agency, Whoarsesheeitt Productions. Emblazoned in brown at the
top of the document was a motto: “A Pile of Entertainment for your money.”

It appeared that this was an exclusive contract, limiting all our concerts and other entertainment to that which would be
supplied by Whoarsesheeitt. At the bottom of the document, I found the signatures of several high union officials and J.
Edgar Whoarsesheeitt, director. Our curiosity was only heightened by this find, so we eagerly looked into the matter further. Another
contract was found, this one for a particular booking by Whoarsesheeitt. The date on it was for the next concert
weekend at Davidson. The name of the group was “The Goose Creek Dreaming Illustrated Poco-Byrd Jazz, Steam and Banana Barimba
Band.” Shivers of anticipation ran through our bodies at the prospect of having “The Goose Creek Dreaming Illustrated Poco-Byrd Jazz,
Steam and Banana Barimba Band” in concert.

But perhaps the greatest find of the afternoon was a list of the groups from Whoarsesheeitt. We studied it and
discovered that JUDY COLLINS WAS NOT ON IT! Employing our lightning-fast, analytical minds, we instantly realized why she did not
appear, why we were saved from such garbage. Whoarsesheeitt stopped her. The exclusive contract would prevent her from appearing here.
Yes, it is now very clear. We looked back at the initial contract and breathed a sigh of relief, for
it was in no danger of lapsing. The expiration date on it was 1985. Huzzah for the far-sighted social council!
Huzzah for Whoarsesheeitt!

Scott Keeter ‘72
Gary Scibal ‘72
Mike O'Malley ‘72
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I want to express my deepest sympathy to Cecil Burney on the occasion of his deep loss. It is evident
from his harangues on the college and especially on the church recently that he has suffered a great loss. Apparently,
he has nothing really positive in his life. Apparently, he has nothing that he really prizes at Davidson—perhaps he’s even
jealous of the fact that others might have—or do have.

Blasted

To assume that anyone over 30 (make that 21 or 22) has no capacity for compassion, tolerance, the awareness of
human need, liberal thinking, etc., is to pronounce him (Burney) not only ignorant (perhaps not by board scores but by
better ways of judging) but himself intolerant and gauche. How many people does he know in the “Real World”? How
much has he done for the poor? Where is he looking for the “Truth”? What does communal living add to
the betterment of society? And so to him—our deepest sympathy and sincere condolences in his bereavement.

Margaret Walker
Charlotte, N.C.

ED. NOTE: This letter was sent to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.; however, THE DAVIDSONIAN was asked to print
it in this issue.

To the Editor:

I am presently a sophomore here at Davidson. The matter to which I call your attention is the absence of
blacks from Davidson's faculty and the upper echelons of its administration. This is a situation which I feel should be
rectified as rapidly as specifics will allow. It is hypocritical on Davidson’s part to support the recruitment of black students
into such a lily-white situation. The absence of black professionals must be interpreted by prospective black enrollees as a lack
of commitment to the creation of a campus environment which reflects the racial dignity of all. Primarily, I would like
to know what your thoughts are on the situation and what attempts at rectification have been made in the past.
In addition, I have sent copies of this letter to the Dean of the Faculty and department chairmen, in the
hope that the discussion on this point may be intensified on an effectual, campus-wide basis. A response at your earliest
convenience will be greatly appreciated.

William L. Endy ‘73
Davidson College
