> (Staff photo by Doty) ECONOMICS AND FOREIGN POLICY John Kenneth Galbraith presents Reynolds lecture. The Davidsonian May 14, 1971 Page Three Galbraith Blisters U.S. Foreign Policy By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor With wry humor and a caustic wit, author-economist John Kenneth Galbraith blasted bungling U.S. policy on the international scene last Monday night. Speaking on the topic "Foreign Policy: The Next Reform" to a large audience in Love Auditorium, Galbraith called for an end to U.S. intervention overseas and a more rational approach to real issues in the third world. He began by reviewing U.S. foreign policy and diplomacy in the last two decades. "Whereas the diplomat used to be a man in striped trousers, now he carries a putty knife to help in replacing broken windows." As a member of the Kennedy administration, Galbraith pointed to the Cuban missile crisis as the worst blunder of the early 1960s, "one which showed not strength in our policies but rather our catastrophic weaknesses." He said that communist relations with the U.S. improved in the 1960s steadily because the idea of "a communist political monolith against the free world" became outdated. "Foreign policy was a weapon in the larger conflict of the cold war. This conflict is now largely dissolved. The communist world has been as divided as the non-communist world."

Exam Mechanics Evoke Few Faculty Suggestions By DOUG BROWN Ass’t. Managing Editor A survey conducted by Director of Instructional Development Jay H. Ostwalt shows that the faculty in general has no strong feelings one way or the other on the new self-scheduled exams first instituted during the exam period for the winter term. Of the 87 faculty members at Davidson, 57 were surveyed about their opinions on self-scheduled exams. Twenty-eight faculty members felt that the administration of the exams could be simplified, but they were unable for the most part to offer suggestions on how it could be simplified. On the other hand, 29 felt that the established procedure should be followed in the future. "There is not much real evidence in favor of changing the mechanics of self-scheduled exams," said Ostwalt. Another question attempted to evaluate any changes in the amount of time needed to grade exams. Most professors felt that about as much time was required to grade exams as previously. A few felt it took less time, and they were cancelled out by those who felt that it took more time. "Some faculty members mentioned the inconvenience of turning exams in one week before the exam period to the registrar’s office," noted Ostwalt. Twenty-seven wanted the length of the exam period to be one pre-exam day and four days for exams. Twenty-one wanted only three days for exams and one pre-exam day, and three wanted five exam days and one pre-exam day. One question queried the faculty on student behavior and whether the Honor Code had been put under stress. It was believed by 47 that there had been no violation of the Honor Code, while seven voiced reservations about student conduct in regard to the Honor Code. Twenty-five of the faculty said that the students overwhelmingly favored self-scheduled exams. According to 27, there was no student preference one way or the other. One professor said students were against the change. "This poll said two things," commented Ostwalt. "First, the faculty felt that the change in exam procedure did not have much effect on student behavior. Secondly, most faculty members appear to be satisfied with the mechanics of the new procedure."-Sino-Soviet relations are much more poorly coordinated than, say, those between the United States and France.” Galbraith then directed his attention to “a change in the substance of world affairs.” “In the beginning of the decade each country was capable of destroying the other. At the end of the decade each country was capable of destroying the other one five times. This is not mathematically decisive.” Turning to the present, Galbraith said, “The disaster area of our foreign policy has come to be in the third world—Cuba, Africa, and Indochina especially. It was here that the policy ran afoul of history.” He added, “Foreign policy is a gentlemanly profession which sets much weight on tradition and continuity, but it has been based on many wrong assumptions.”

He listed four lessons that the U.S. could learn from. First of these is “the limits on our power. We have suffered from the Marshall plan—that the U.S. only thing missing after World War II in Europe was capital. But where there is a lack of industrial base, the economy will not respond to an influx of capital. The superpower which seeks to intervene in the third world remains subject to the technical vacuum in the rest of the world.” The second lesson is that “only in a very advanced stage of technology is capitalism worthwhile. Whether rural, underdeveloped countries call themselves free, democratic or whatever, this type of labeling has only terminological significance.” The third lesson is that “although development of countries is beyond help, efforts to influence development bring in a large civilian bureaucracy. Influencing the hearts and minds of people is frustrating. Whereas in Vietnam and elsewhere the frustration has been great, the bureaucracy has been infinite.” The final lesson is that “an overseas bureaucracy develops a life and purpose of its own, under marginal control of the administration at home,” Galbraith said. An “overseas bureaucracy has autonomy to do whatever it is doing, and it will maintain such an inertial thrust to continue in its course.” Turning specifically to the war in Vietnam, Galbraith (See GALBRAITH, Page 8)

Marr Suggests Methods For Educational Reform
By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

Emphasis on students and specification of educational objectives were the topics of discussion at an Open End, held last Monday in the Union Bar. Approximately a dozen students and faculty questioned senior Hugh Marr on classroom educational theory. Marr said that emphasizing the student and specification of educational objectives are two basic ways of improving classroom technique. Marr said that since courses were given for students, courses should be designed with students in mind. “One professor, in answer to a questionnaire, said that it was a status symbol among the faculty at Davidson to be known as a ‘hard professor’,” he said. “This is an example of the emphasis of a course being on the wrong thing. A professor should consider what his students get out of a course, not how hard it is.” Another problem in classroom education, said Marr, is unspecified objectives. Many times, “students just don't know what to learn or what is expected of them,” stated Marr.

STUDENTS - TEACHERS MALE AND FEMALE
Earn $1500 this summer in addition to a chance at $6000 in cash scholarships
Pleasant Sales Promotional Work
Plenty of Free Time to Pursue Own Interests
For Personal Interview Call:
Personnel 377-4973 377-4974
Write: Personnel Suite 306 207 Hawthorne Ln. Charlotte, N. C. 28204

SPRING CLEARANCE SALE AT THE RED HANGER
All Spring Stock Greatly Reduced
Buy Now For The Hot Summer Months Ahead
THE RED HANGER
Davidson, N. C.