The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager
JANUARY 29, 1971
PAGE FOUR

Seeing The Light

Many thoughts come to our minds in reviewing the recent student body elections, and being editors, we could not resist
sharing a few of those with our readers. First, a comment on the quality of the campaigns. This year, as
has not been the case in several recent years, the candidates were motivated by issues about which not only they
but also the entire student body was concerned. The reality of the issues including social reform, the efficacy of certain
policies, and the editorial policy of THE DAVIDSONIAN put forth serious platforms with serious proposals to answer serious student questions.
In most instances, the response of the candidates was gratifying. As a whole, the platforms were pleasantly realistic and well
considered. Unfortunately, in a few instances, the candidates did not deign to deal with issues solely and mounted campaigns more
immature than one might expect from a college student. These campaigns bordered on personal attacks against incumbents and opponents. Such
instances were rare, but they are ones we hope will not be repeated at Davidson.

And now a comment on the election results. Because of the intensity of the feelings stirred by the recent social
reforms and because many of the anti-reform sentiments seemed to have the greatest backing, few at Davidson could have predicted
the overwhelming victories by candidates not normally identified as “profraternity.” It goes without saying that your editors and especially the
Editor-in-Chief were quite pleased with the results of the balloting. Yet it seems to us that the student body should
feel equally gratified at these results. Basically, they mean that the institutions in question will continue to develop properly and
under the most capable leadership.

In all of the races in which a big issue was made of the fraternity system, the voters elected the
candidates with the greatest experience for the position. The campaigns, as it turned out, did not hinge on one issue
but on the qualifications of the candidates. The voters rejected the emotional appeal and with it rejected the amateurism which
threatened several positions when candidates tried to ride the emotional appeal into office. For thus validly selecting candidates by competence,
the voters are to be congratulated.

No More Vietnams!

“It’s quiet. Too quiet. I don’t like it.” These words lifted from hundreds of the worst jungle, war, and cowboy
and Indian movies ever made might well describe the situation on American campuses since the beginning of the school year.
It may be that we are feeling the calm before a storm, but we certainly hope that such is not
the case. Or it may be, as one student here recently suggested, that the days of the neurotic student are
passing and that rising students are silent only by virtue of being psychotic. Seriously, however, there seems to be little
evidence that events in Southeast Asia have become sane enough that we can ignore them as the silent campuses seem
to be doing. In spite of the Cooper-Church amendment, it has been revealed recently that “pistol-packing squads of American ‘helicopter
salvage’ experts dressed in their civvies have been found prowling around the Phnom Penh airport. Their presence has been only
inadequately explained. Yet such inadequate explanation is possible only as long as the public will put up with it. Perhaps
now would be a good time for the campus to make a little noise and try to pry the truth
about the situation out of the Defense Department. A little noise now would certainly be better than a lot of
Cambodianization a few years from now.

PAUL ROWLAND

The Job Interview Game — And How To Play It

“Hello there, you must be...” The young executive type calls out, simultaneously extending a hand to shake. You complete his
sentence by pronouncing your name in a moderately resonant, “radio” voice and shake his hand firmly, making sure to look
him in the eye and flash a toothy salesman smile to prove your confident competence. Suitably introduced, you are ready
to begin a game in which you are a pawn and your partner is king. The game is known as
the Placement Interview.

The first phase, called foreplay, consists of shooting the breeze on your hometown, whatever you might have in common with
the interviewer, or any other innocent topic. This phase is fairly standard but from there the game can take many
directions. Dozens of dippy facts about the particular company are often delivered in dead earnest: “Ace is the largest trucking
company this side of the Chattahoochee!” “Money Back Bank offers more check colors than any other bank in...the Yubangee area!"
As though you care... Insurance companies can be counted on to play up their role in “helping people solve problems”
and sometimes seem to be more charitable institutions than money-making businesses. But somehow a Davidson education doesn't motivate one to
seek employment selling life insurance, towels, or toothpaste despite companies’ big names. (Banks account for more than a third of
the recruiters visiting Davidson and deserve special attention in this survey.) “What makes you think you can be a banker?”
is the general gist of the question usually popped. Unless your major is economics, the implication is more specific, “how
do you expect us to hire you with that major?” Being a conversation game, Placement Interview success depends not only
on your paper qualifications but also on your ability to shoot (or shove) bull. It can be a matter of
the right line for the right company. It’s reminiscent of rush; you find out what they want and convince them
you've got two of them. But it’s a buyer’s market these days. Companies can pick and choose. If you were
hooked by the liberal arts line, your job opportunities may be sunk by those Carolina business administration majors.

The main reason the majority of Davidson graduates go on to further study may not be competence after all, but
incompetence. Most of us just aren't trained to do anything useful. And most prefer further study to immediate military service.
All this is intended to communicate not so much criticism as reflection. After several bank representatives emphasize the necessity of
dropping “idealism” for cold, hard business amoralism, you may well decide your life work isn’t to be a branch manager.

But as '71 is a bad time to look for work, you play the game. It all makes you want
to go to graduate school.

Students Rowdy At Bloomfield
Intercollegiate Press

Bloomfield College, which had relaxed in recent years strict “in loco parentis” standards for student conduct, has been forced by
the current conflict with neighbors and the town to seek a middle ground between rigid control and permissiveness.

“Like most colleges, Bloomfield began to treat its students as responsible adults about five years ago," said Dr. Paul Sherburne,
dean of students. “In place of control, the college now has to develop means of guidance if it wants to
fulfill its responsibilities to the students. Obviously, the present difficulties with the town gave this process a higher priority for
us. But it’s something we would have had to cope with eventually.”

Dean Sherburne has added a new responsibility to the duties of undergraduate resident advisors. Starting this year, they will inform
resident students about town ordinances governing their behavior. In the past, the dean explained, resident advisors concerned themselves only with
college orientation—helping new students with academic and personal problems. “The college has always recognized its responsibilities in that area,” he
said. “We are now faced with the necessity of reminding them that they are citizens of Bloomfield and informing them
of the duties that involves.”

Town ordinances, which prohibit undue noise after 11 p.m. and generally attempt to define limits of behavior in a quiet,
residential community, are what Dean Sherburne wants students to know. “The problem never existed in the past, because the college's
rules were always stricter than the town's," he said.

Bloomfield College was once a Presbyterian Seminary and, until recently, remained a small school with strong traditions. But in the
past 10 years, the student population and its programs have grown and diversified. Dean Sherburne warned that the college may
revise its attitude toward students who violate municipal ordinances. “A college sets standards of conduct which reflect its needs. When
a student engages in conduct deleterious to the college, it must sometimes sever the relationship with that student,” Dean Sherburne
said. “Theoretically, it makes no difference to a school if one of its students is arrested for disorderly conduct. It's
his business. But in the current situation, political factors may indeed make it deleterious to the college.”

Dean Sherburne said several committees within the college will attempt to define what forms of civil misbehavior can have a
harmful effect on the college. And, he indicated, students convicted of breaking local ordinances may face disciplinary action by the
college. He said, however, the college has no intention of trying to enforce local ordinances. “We have no need for
a rule that restricts noise after 11 p.m. on a Friday night. If we did, we’d make one and enforce
it. That rule comes from the town and the town has to enforce it. We can only inform our students
of the law and trust their maturity and good judgment in the present situation.”
