TO THE VICTOR THE SPOILS

“Friends of the college” give swimming and baseball coach Tom Stevens a new car in Johnston Gym.

Stevens Given Car

Davidson baseball and swimming coach Tom Stevens became the third Davidson head coach in three years to be given a car by “friends of the college.” The automobile, a 1967 Volkswagen, was given to Stevens in pre-meet ceremonies before the Davidson-Johnson C. Smith swimming meet in Johnston Gym. Stevens' swimmers splashed to a 62-39 win in their opener.

Stevens received the gift from alumni as a result of the success he has had with the Wildcat baseball program. Stevens, in his tenth season at the Davidson helm, went over the 100-win plateau last spring. R. Winston Spikes, who presented the keys, called Stevens a “great sportsman, an inspiration to all of the players he has coached. His record speaks for itself. I can't think of anyone who has done more for Davidson and Southern Conference baseball in general than this man right here (Stevens).”

After expressing his thanks, Stevens offered his own comments. “We've always been real optimistic about the program here at Davidson. With a little luck, we could go all the way this year. If we can just put it all together, we can have a fine ballclub. We should be contenders. But at Davidson, we do have a problem competing with all of the subsidized teams; we don't have any scholarships at all and it makes it tough to compete.”

Immediately after the meet, Stevens was seen talking with Maryland officials. Maryland is known to be looking for a baseball coach. Stevens was out of town earlier this week, but Mrs. Stevens told reporters that “he had mentioned something about checking out the car. He said he might drop by and see Lefty (Driesell).” Driesell, now coach at Maryland, and Homer Smith, now head football coach at Pacific, earlier received cars from grateful alumni.

Davidsonian, January 15, 1971, Page Seven

Cats To Face Cocks At Home

Coach Terry Holland announced at a press conference Jan. 12 that the site of the Davidson-South Carolina basketball game has been moved from the Coliseum to Johnston Gym here at Davidson. The reason for the rash change in the location was due to a mix-up in bookings for the Coliseum, Holland said. “Somewhere the bookings got crossed up,” he commented, “and we were scheduled to play the same night the Ringling Brothers Barnum and Bailey Circus was to open.”

Holland said he received notice of the change from the Coliseum Director Sunday afternoon. “I’ve already conferred with South Carolina's coach Frank McGuire and we both agree that there is nothing else to do,” Holland smirked. “We will have to play it out here.”

Bo Brickets, the assistant Wildcat's coach, was elated over the location change. “We haven't lost a game in seven years in Johnston Gym, and I feel sure that no one will see this as any start of a precedent,” he stated. “There's room for the en-

Move, May Take Green Bay Post

Former Davidson head football coach Homer Smith is rumored to be on the move again and the latest move might be to the biggest post Smith has held. The Green Bay Packers of the National Conference of the NFL are rumored to have narrowed the choice for a replacement for Phil Bengston to three top college coaches: Smith, Joe Paterno of Penn State, and Ohio State’s W. W. Hayes. Packer officials have indicated that the announcement of a new coach is imminent sinceThe Green Bay club wants to have the coach briefed on his personnel before the annual draft of college football talent. Packer brass have been drawn to the three because of the success they have had with their offensive teams in the past several seasons. “Although Hayes, Paterno, and Smith have different theories on how to run a successful offense and have quite different concepts of how the defensive team should be organized, we feel that all of them can enrich the Packer team and the NFL in general,” a Green Bay spokesman commented. “As far as Smith is concerned, we have a high opinion of his talents. After his experience at Davidson, we are convinced that he can recruit men who will meet the entrance requirements here. It sure is exciting to watch that ball fly through the air.”

Although Smith was not available for comment due to a heavy schedule of speaking engagements, Paterno and Hayes both made statements to the press. “As far as I’m concerned, Paterno and Smith can have the job,” said Hayes. “Three yards and a cloud of dust is the only way I want to play football. I wouldn't fit in at Green Bay. It gets so cold there that the ground freezes. Can't get any dust at all that way.” Paterno also seemed disinterested in the Packer post. “I like Penn State,” stated the Nittany Lion chief. “Green Bay isn't even eligible for the Lambert trophy. As far as I'm concerned, Hayes and Smith can have the job.”

Several Packer players have expressed the hope that Smith would be the head man. “The man really impressed me when I talked with him, he seemed to be a swell guy,” said one man. Charlotte - tire Davidson student body in Johnston Gym, and if the students remember what happened at Maryland, I'm sure the game will be, uh, exciting,” he snickered. Brickles said this was a chance for “worthwhile student activity.”

The Gamecocks of USC dropped in the national rankings after two quick upsets, and Holland foresees the Davidson game as a “chance to eliminate them as contenders altogether.” “The place will be of tremendous psychological advantage to the ‘Cats,” he said. In an effort to make up for the loss of the Coliseum, the Ringling Brothers Circus offered to lend three elephants and a tiger to the school for the halftime show. “We were forced to turn down their kind offer,” Brickels said, “because a show like that would interfere with the fine entertainment we get from our cheerleaders.”

Crowd control was foreseen as a problem for the game, but the coaches feel they have it well in hand. According to Holland, seats will be held for Davidson students until 3 p.m. “In case anyone can't get in to see the game, we will have closed circuit television set up in Love Auditorium, Perkins Auditorium, and the Honors College,” Brickels said. Holland denied rumors that fear of fighting led to the changing of the location of the game, but did say that a “certified boxing ref” will be employed for the game. All Davidson team members will wear fencing masks during the game.

(Class Senators)
(Editor)
(Editor)
(Editor)
(Honor Court Members)
(Paid Advertisement)
(SGA ELECTIONS)
(SGA President)
(SGA Vice-President)
(Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN)
(Editor of “Quips and Cranks”)
(Editor of “Miscellany”)
(Editor of “Wildcat Handbook”)
(Freshmen Advisor)
(YMCA President, Vice President)
(Secretary and Treasurer)
(Union Board Chairman)
(Social Council Chairman)

Elections for the above offices will be held January 29, 1971. Deadline for filing is Tuesday, January 19, at midnight in Duke 8, with Roger Mills.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS: Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer—North Carolina’s nationally recognized Coastal Boys’ and Girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. 24th year. Camps feature sailing and seamanship plus all usual camping activities. Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who are LOOKING FOR MORE than “just another summer job.” Openings for NURSES (RN). June 9 - August 20. We seek highly qualified (ability to instruct in one phase of camp’s program), return good salaries, board and lodging, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer—P. O. Box 10976—Raleigh, North Carolina, 27605.