Three's A Crowd.
BOBBY ALLEN
The Davidsonian
October 8, 1971
Page Five

Brodie Experience Causes ‘Reverberating Circuits’

During the past year, I have developed a keen interest in the film experience, in what happens to a person
when he sits in a darkened room and allows light passed through celluloid and bounced off a white screen to
be absorbed by his retina. What causes this illusion to assume so much the dimensions of reality that it can
make one laugh, cry, or become physically sick?

Until last Friday night, I had approached this phenomenon in a very individual and personal manner. One sits in the
screening room isolated from his neighbors in darkness and silence; he brings to the experience his own experiences, and the
film sets into motion certain mental “reverberating circuits” unique in each individual.

I say I approached the subject in this individualized manner until last Friday. Last Friday I attempted to watch The
Prime of Miss Jean Brodie in the Morrison Room. As a result of that experience, I have been forced to
alter my suppositions concerning the film experience by dividing it into two categories: normal film experience and Davidson film experience.

The Davidson film experience is not individual but community in nature. One may sit in darkness but he is forced
NOT to sit in silence. One is forced not only to react to the film, but also to the audience.
As the Davidson film experience is at such variance with the norm I will here...

Queens College Promotes Rationale Of Girls’ Schools

AN ANALYSIS
By DON PARMAN
Editor-in-Chief

As Davidson College administrators have discovered in recent years, it has become increasingly difficult to convince students and prospective students
on the idea of a single-sex college. Queens College has started a promotional campaign aimed at convincing the general public,
not particularly its own student body, on the merits of the women’s college.

John E. Smylie, president of Queens College, stated, “We’re tired of playing dead in the face of doom prophets who
say the women’s college is near death or close to it. Her pulse may have fluttered, but she is far
from being critically ill. In fact, no accurate or conclusive diagnosis of her case — fatal or not — has
yet been made.”

Apart from the obvious questions as to the health of Queens College or women’s colleges in general (and I would
remind President Smylie that his is a doctorate of philosophy, not medicine), the chief interest in it is the justification
of women’s colleges which is put forth.

“There’s something special about a woman, ... and women’s colleges,” according to the claims. The answer which Queens College would
pass on is that most women need a women’s school to fully realize themselves as human beings.

But the rationale is quite contradictory. While the ideas are broadly based on the concept of the liberated woman, the
same ideas can be quite reactionary at the same time. It is asserted that women must have a separate but
equal environment so that they can learn to be first-class citizens, to avoid intellectual deference to males, and to have
access to the equivalent equipment. And the blacks should go to separate but equal schools so that they can learn
to be first-class citizens.

Social advantages are alluded to, “You will discover the advantage of being your own woman, of playing the dating game
on your own terms, without constantly being on display.” None of which sounds as if it need be reason for
the liberated woman to whom the drive is addressed to select a women’s college over a comparable coeducational school.

Seniors Resent Demands Of Anonymous Polling

To The Editor:

The Davidson student is asked to fill out many questionnaires; surely this is little enough to ask of him. But,
even if he is not required to give his name, it is unfair to ask the student for information when
the inquirer states neither his own identity nor the purpose for which the information will be used. Besides being a
matter of common courtesy, it is a basic right of the student to know why his opinions are being solicited.

A recent example of such a case is the Voter Registration Poll. Other questionnaires sent out last year were also
guilty of this. Realizing that in most cases this action is merely an oversight, we nevertheless believe this information needs
to be supplied. It is little enough for the student to ask in return.

Charles Knighton ‘72
David Dixon ‘72
Ben Towe ‘72
Woody Seymour, Jr. ‘72
Ray Mendenhall ‘72
Davidson College

It is easy, almost natural, to react against the slick justifications for the women’s college, packaged in the latest ideas
and mindsets. The arguments for a men’s college can have no stronger inherent claims. But at Davidson, we continue to
try to sell the myth, “There’s something special about a man, and men’s colleges.”Attempt to break down the typical Davidson
reaction to a film into its constituent parts:

1. Davidson student enters screening room and announces the same by screaming “focus” or “sound” at the top of his
lungs.
2. As soon as the titles have begun, D.C. student is compelled to demonstrate his native intelligence by reading all
non-Anglo-Saxon credits aloud.
3. D.C. student shows he is not duped by this two-dimensional-illusion-representing-reality by carrying on a running dialogue with Maggie Smith.
4. D.C. student shows his sexual immaturity and inexperience by seeing sexual illusions in bananas, girl’s physical education class, a
map of Spain, and the succession of the Stuarts, and double entendres in every audible bit of dialogue.
5. If all else fails, student falls back on his stock-in-trade—insensitive cynicism—verbally demonstrated, either by a nasal snorting sound or
the sharp expelling of air against the forearm, in response to every scene in which an interpersonal relationship advances past
salutations.

There is a scene in The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie in which an art master is explaining the curved
line to a class of adolescent school girls. Using a painting as an aid, he points out examples of the
curve. When he mentions “breasts” as such an example, the class erupts into tittering and snickering. In this scene, D.C.
moviegoers, see yourselves.

Profit-Mad Committee Says Love Story Is For Lovers
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

What can you say about a 24-year-old girl that died? That she was a tough bag? That she could do
the twist? Or that it seems a waste to show a film about her to Davidson students on a big
weekend? Whatever the answer, Love Story will make an appearance in the Morrison Room of the college union during Homecoming
through the efforts of the Popular Films Committee.

Rejecting past traditions that have brought such winners as Romeo and Juliet to the local screen, a vocal minority is
grumbling about the dubious taste involved in the selection of Erich Segal’s classic. Senior Robin Gray, chairman of the Popular
Films Committee, defended the choice: “In the tradition of big weekends, the committee has tried to appeal to the romantic
inclinations of the student body and in particular their female guests. It is the belief of the committee,” he added,
“that the film will sell tickets. Whether or not the film will provide intellectual enlightenment for the students is another
question entirely.”

Gray explained that the committee operates on a profit-loss budget, and must choose its films accordingly. This group is the
only one in the Union Board which is self-supported and always comes out ahead at the end of the year.
“Since we operate on this type of budget,” said Gray, “movies are selected on the basis of whether or not
they will make a profit, not for their aesthetic edification. The latter is left to the Fine Films Committee. The
purpose of our films is sheer entertainment.”

The popular films usually number from 25-30 films per year, that is, one each week if the Morrison is not
taken for other functions. The selection committee for the films is open to anyone who wants to participate, although only
about 6-8 students ever show up. Criterion for selection includes the availability of a certain film in addition to its
box office appeal.

Thus Love Story will go on. It’s funny that while many complain of intellectual castration at Davidson, there is little
evidence to support it. While five or six devotees might populate the Green Room for a poetic reading or the
Phi Hall for a symposium, the vast majority of students will most likely be found packed into Morrison at 8
p.m. watching some real culture-cookie like Jane Fonda do her thing as Barbarella.

Love Repudiates Succop
To The Editor:

There is some controversy about exactly who finished eighty-first in the recent freshman cake race and it seems to have
been caused by Gus Succop. A politician should attempt to get his facts straight before making a public statement. Just
for the record, the matter was settled beyond question shortly after the race was finished. Mrs. A. R. Brownson, a
very nice Davidson resident, had intended to bake but had not. She was determined for the guy who came so
close to have a cake, though, and as the official No. 81, I was called and told of her intention.
Late Thursday afternoon I picked up the biggest, most delicious chocolate cake you’ve ever seen. I, too, not only boast
a whole grandstand of masochists, my hall counselor and whole living body, but also Mrs. Brownson’s chocolate cake as proof
that I was 81st. So if there is a coed on campus who feels sorry for ol’ Gus, bake him
an angel food cake with chocolate icing. His room is Sentelle 110, but his number was 82.

Rick Love ‘75
Davidson College
