Page Six

Compulsory Fee: Bring Us AN ANALYSIS

By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor and ALEC HOON Asst. Managing Editor

Just when most students are finding out that summer was almost over, they also found letters in their mail informing them rather tersely that a compulsory board would go into effect one year hence (1972-73). The letter stated that such things as tuition, fees, laundry, room rent, college board, and orientation and social funds would be lumped into one package deal for every student, with few exceptions.

“By implementing the concept of a comprehensive fee,” the letter continues, “the college believes the portion of the cost of education which students pay will be more equitably distributed for all students.

“We must employ faculty and staff and open facilities for an entire school year. Students who pay only part of the tuition and fees place a greater financial burden on other students.

“Implicit in the concept of a residential college is residence within a pattern of living that provides for the meeting and mixing of all members of the academic community. Having students room and board on campus provides the atmosphere for such a pattern of living.”

The letter concludes by listing schools like Amherst, Wofford, Florida Presbyterian, Yale, and Manchester which already have a comprehensive fee, whatever that has to do with Davidson.

Sophomore Todd Eades presented an excellent study of comprehensive tuition to the student Senate this week in what was the first student response to another nebulous administrative change. And until this report was submitted, the students were as ignorant about the change as the college trustees.

First looking at the non-financial advantages, Eades predicted that a compulsory tuition would advance educational planning considerably. The fee would “make payment for academic services more equitable, and reduce the planning of the academic budget to an easier task.” The fee would also give students a greater opportunity to take extra courses without having to pay extra, as is the present case.

The financial advantages are basically those of simplification of a process. Accounting procedures would be easier with all of the money in a common pool. Bookkeeping would be reduced with the stabilization of the money flow and the college will be able to figure out quickly how much money it is working with in any special area.

YSA Heads Seek Chapter, Speakers

By JOHN KEPCHAR Staff Writer

The Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) hopes to establish a local chapter on the Davidson campus this year. The YSA is currently headed by Steve Cross and John Braxton, and if a local is established they hope to bring Lynda Jenness or Andrew Pulley, the Socialist candidates for president and vice-president, to speak on campus.

The YSA takes the stand that capitalism is too unstable a government for the United States, and feels that socialism has much to offer. They feel that many problems such as pollution and inflation could be much more easily controlled by the socialistic system. For example, the individual citizens who own the businesses that do the polluting will not be likely to spend the money necessary to control their wastes, as it cuts into their profit, but a socialist government would.

They are also in favor of a thirty-hour work-week with no increase in pay, which would cure unemployment, and they are in favor of women’s liberation. They believe Britain has a good system, though the workers are not allowed a large enough voice in the running of industry, Cross said.

The YSA is in favor of nationalizing communication, transportation, manufacturing, and financial enterprises. They will also be in favor of the coming moratorium on the Vietnam War, though they did not advocate stopping the government on May Day, Cross said.

Trotsky held many principles which the Socialist Workers Party and the YSA stand for, and they are commonly referred to as Trotskyites. They believe in free speech and were opposed to the Russian invasion of Czechoslovakia because it violated this principle.

Phone 376-2576a great deal more detail. Eades commented: "It costs so much to run the school as it is, and the college feels everybody should pay the same for the same services." There are several serious drawbacks to the comprehensive fee, however, which Eades believes are more dangerous than the positive weight of the advantages. The primary problem rests with board. Eades said that while he recommended that the senate accept the compulsory fee as far as the academic budget was concerned, he did not feel that the required board would be financially or morally advantageous for this school. The most significant effect that the compulsory board would have would be to effectively prevent most students from saving money by eating in their rooms instead of at their eating house. While the college will be willing to give partial refunds to those who can demonstrate a legitimate reason for doing so (for example, students working part-time in Charlotte and who would be forced to eat several meals a week there), eating in one’s room is not presently considered acceptable. Therefore, students will be discouraged from being thrifty and independent. Eades added that the college will have to collect eating club money as income, and that this method will only swamp the business office as far as bookkeeping is concerned. The original idea was a base-board fee, with the college setting up a $300 fee per student per house and then collecting and handling the bills. This would help fraternity treasurers who have been having trouble getting their fees paid. But with the comprehensive board fee, the college business office will have to keep a record for each student, including his house, the individual cost of the house per meal, and the number of meals eaten at the house per term (such as a half-board set-up). Another disturbing effect that this plan most likely will have will be increased competition to obtain permission to go off campus. Off-campus clearances are numbered, and financially they could turn into gold, going to the highest bidder. For example, some students can eat off campus much cheaper than they would paying $500 on campus for meals. Thus by paying around $100 for a position on the off-campus list, a thrifty student might still save a little money or at least break even in the long run. Many students may be unwilling to stomach this new idea, especially with regard to board, and hence desire to escape to off-campus housing. What this would effectively do would be to pit the students against the administration on yet another issue. However, there appears to be no alarm on first Chambers as to the possible repercussions of their actions except in the business office where it is felt that bookkeeping will become far more complicated. College Treasurer Robert A. Currie will indeed have his hands full. For not only will the college collect the set fee of $500 per house, but will also take in any additional fee that an individual house might decide to levy. The business office is generally perplexed by the compulsory fee in which it had little voice and wary of an avalanche of red tape which may soon be thrust upon its limited staff. The top brass in the administration have scrupulously maintained a public silence as well about the motives or mechanism behind the fee, vaguely bemoaning the plight of the college "in a time of financial stringency." Something must be done to rectify the whole comprehensive fee controversy. Possibly the most satisfactory thing that could be done would be to drop the board fee from the lump sum.

Fashion You Can Afford
Mooresville