Vol. LXI No. Seven The Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students OCTOBER 22, 1971

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

HOMECOMING 1971

Be Good!

Friday, October 22
3 p.m. Soccer: Guilford
8 p.m. Concert: Paul Winter Consort
10:15 p.m. Movie: "Love Story"
12:30 a.m. Concert: Uncle Walt’s Band
2:30 a.m. Breakfast

Saturday, October 23
12 p.m. Luncheon
2 p.m. Football: Wofford
4:45 p.m. Post Game Discussion
5 p.m. Supper
8 p.m. Concert: Flying Burrito Bros.
10:15 p.m. Movie: "Love Story"
10:30 p.m. Dance: Lucifer

Here Morrison Room
Morrison Room
Union
Fine Arts Lawn
Here
Richardson Field & Union
Love Auditorium
Morrison Room
Chambers Dining Hall
Love Auditorium

Board Adopts, Rejects Library Facade

By RICH WILSON Managing Editor

The board of trustees today approved a preliminary draft of the trustee by-laws which change the composition of the board
and give broad powers to the president and his administrative officers. In further action, the board expressed approval of the
interior plans of the library but directed the architects to revise the facade of the building. No action was taken
on co-education. The governance committee was expanded by the addition of two trustees, two students, two faculty, and two administrative
members.

The change in the structure of the board as approved in the by-laws called for a reduction in size of
its members from 51 to 42. In the future, the board will include 26 members elected by the Presbyteries of
North Carolina and Florida, 12 members elected by the alumni, and eight at-large members elected by the trustees. At least
four of the at-large members must be Davidson alumni.

“The purpose of instituting at-large members is to allow the college to secure from other geographical areas the services of
individuals who are interested in the future of Davidson College,” said Warner L. Hall, chairman of the board.

In contrast to the previous set of by-laws, the new ones do not list the specific powers of the President
and his administrative officers. However, under the new provisions, the president may make faculty appointments without trustee action. He also
may “hold up” action taken by faculty or students if he deems that it will endanger the well-being of the
college community, according to Hall.

“This is not a veto power,” said College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. “Once action has been suspended, the president
may ask the particular body to reconsider or he may lay the matter before the board of trustees.”

The by-laws also include a new section on Faculty and Student organizations, which states that the Faculty Constitution, the Student
Government Constitution, and other official documents must be approved by the trustees. In addition, the by-laws call for all campus
organizations to be chartered and that they shall be subject to approval by the trustees.

Does The RHC Have Any Future?

By DOUG BROWN Asst. Managing Editor

Members of the Residence Hall Council (RHC) will be elected this Tuesday, and the question in the minds of many
is whether the RHC is a viable organization. Student Body President Danny Clodfelter commented, “A number of the functions of
the RHC have been shifted to other people and organizations. The question is whether it should continue to exist.”

Dean of Students Will H. Terry seconds this view by saying, “Any organization which has outlived its usefulness has no
real reason to stay in operation.” Terry favors an RHC which would be drastically different from the way it is
presently constituted. In Terry’s view, the RHC should be geared more towards the problems of the individual dorms, and this
could best be accomplished by a number of autonomous councils dealing with the problems of their respective dorms.

Residence Hall Council President Bill Alexander has his own goals for the RHC, but he said, “I must wait until
the new RHC is elected before the RHC moves in any definite directions.” This Tuesday is a late date for
elections, and Alexander blames Senior Class President Bill Lear for this. Lear is charged with running student elections, and Alexander
said, “RHC elections are being held at this late date because Bill Lear wanted to avoid doing the work he
was supposed to do. I did not want the RHC elections held at the same time that elections for senators
were held because too many people were already running for office.” Alexander added, “Also, I felt that those who were
defeated in their races for the senate should have the opportunity to run for the RHC. Bill Lear only wanted
elections held twice, once for senators and once for the RHC.”Once for the referenda. Lear refused to run RHC elections
when I wanted them run.” In response to Alexander’s charges concerning the late RHC elections, Lear said, “Alexander did not
ask me to have elections for the RHC until the night after elections for senators had been held. He said
that he wanted the elections held ‘within the next week or so.’” Lear continued, “It takes two weeks to properly
plan for an election, and it had already been decided that we were going to run referenda in 4 weeks.
Alexander was perfectly aware of the elections schedule. As far as I am concerned, the 2 weeks difference between the
time Alexander wanted an election held and the time the referenda had been scheduled might as well have been 2
years for all the work that the RHC has done under Bill Alexander. It is obviously an inefficient waste of
time to run three campus-wide polls within a month, the extent of which Alexander is not aware of as he
has never volunteered in the past to help with elections, as have most other senators,” said Lear.

Alexander's plans for the future include an ice machine in Belk dorm on an experimental basis. He also hopes to
give each freshman dorm $50.00 for a party. He feels that with a (See FUTURE, Page 10)

By-laws, Plans the president or whoever he designates to approve such chartering, Spencer said. The trustees also deleted the section
in the by-laws which said that at least 50 percent of the faculty must be Presbyterians. However, the trustees left
intact the statement that a faculty member must be a Christian in order to receive tenure. The trustees hope to
approve the final draft at their spring meeting.

Concerning the new library, the trustees passed a resolution of appreciation to E. H. Little for his additional contribution of
$500,000. The trustees, however, expressed dissatisfaction with the outward appearance of the proposed plans and directed the architects to prepare
additional sketches before February.

On the subject of coeducation, Hall said that the board was continuing to study the issue. “I believe in coeducation,
and I believe it to be a sound means of education,” said Hall, “but the board hesitates to make a
decision while legislation concerning this matter is still pending in Congress.” Hall also expressed concern about the means of financing
coeducation as well as Davidson's relationship with Queens College.

In expanding the Governance Committee, the trustees in a resolution directed it to continue its study “within the framework of
the Charter and by-laws, of all aspects of college governance, including its review of faculty and student constitutional documents.”

In other action, the board also heard an explanation of the deferred giving program, and then authorized the development staff
to begin implementation of the program.

Little Contributes $500,000

E. H. Little of New York, a native of Mecklenburg County, N.C., and former president and board chairman of Colgate-Palmolive,
has given Davidson College a second $500,000 challenge contribution for the college’s new $4 million library named in his honor.
In 1969 the college claimed Little’s first challenge gift of $500,000 after raising $1,500,000 in matching funds. Now the college
will be seeking to raise that amount again to match Little’s second challenge gift by the time the library is
completed in 1974.

“Initially Davidson was thinking in terms of a library of 60,000 square feet at a cost of $2 million,” explained
College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. “As long-range plans for the college developed, it became clear that future needs demanded
a structure of 100,000 square feet, estimated to cost about $4 million. The E. H. Little Library will be our
most important building since Chambers (the main classroom building) was constructed in the late 1920s,” the president continued. “Mr. Little’s
gracious willingness to start us so magnificently on the final phase of fund-raising is thoroughly characteristic of him. Because of
his vision and generosity, Davidson will have a library second to none.”

Spencer announced the gift at a joint meeting on campus of trustees, faculty, staff, and students on Thursday. The group
had gathered to hear the presentation of the library planning committee, architects, and a landscape design, concerning the appearance and
functions of the new library.

Little is the largest individual contributor in Davidson’s history. The E. H. Little dormitory on campus bears his name, as
will the new library. His gifts contributed substantially toward the construction of the Dana Science Building and the Cunningham Fine
Arts Center.
