Page Two September 17, 1971 (Staff photo by Campbell)

RINGING IN THE NEW YEAR
Store Manager Peter Nicholls rings up another refund.

Governance Plan Creates Residence Hall Manager

As a part of the new governance procedures, a new position known as Residence Hall Manager has been created for
the purpose of dormitory maintenance, security, and counseling. According to Dean of Students Will H. Terry, the residence hall managership,
which was instituted this summer by the Board of Trustees, will serve the students in a number of ways.

First and foremost, Terry said, the residence hall managers will inform the Dean of Students and housing authorities of physical
problems in the dorm buildings. Also, these managers will have pass keys to every room to let in students who
might get locked out. Furthermore, the managers will keep up with unauthorized persons in the dorm whom they suspect as
security problems.

“The residence hall managers will be resource people to whom a student may go for assistance in any problem,” Terry
said. “We feel that this program speaks of a presence and of our concern for the students.” Terry emphasized that
the managers will be “reminders, not tattletales or snoopers — that is, unless some student is totally obnoxious and deserves
to be reported, for the good of all others.”

According to the letter sent out by Terry to the new managers, the students selected have “tact, patience, and a
responsible style of life.” Each of the five managers will be paid one hundred dollars a term. Each of the
dorms housing upperclassmen will have a residence hall manager, except for Belk, which will have two. The residence hall managers,
according to Terry, are Lee Farnell (Richardson), Bill Spencer (Little), Tom Ioanes (Belk third and fourth), Tad Porter (Belk first
and second), and Tom Sinks (Duke).

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
CECIL BURNEY
TODD HOBBIE

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
DAVID HANIG

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Photography Editor:
JOHN DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON
ALEC HOON

Advertising Manager:
WHIT WHITWORTH

Copy Editors:
BOBBIE BLACKWOOD
JAMES HANNA

Assistant Copy Editor:
BILL ELLETT

Ass’t Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER
CHARLIE TERRELL
HOWARD BOYD

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
TERRY HIRST
ZACK MOBLEY

Circulation Managers:
HOWARD RAMAGLI
STEVE SHEPHERD
GREG MITCHELL

Photographers:
BILL BARNES
FRANK ERWIN
PAUL HORWITZ

Contributors this week:
Thomas Ainsworth, David Arant, Tom Bruce, Russell Carter, David Foerster, Francis Townsend, and Allen Williams. John Kepchar, Howard Ramagli, Frank
Soos.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$6.00.

Student Store Reduces Prices On Textbooks

By DAVID FOERSTER
Staff Writer

Due to President Nixon's wage and price freeze, the Davidson Student Store closed on Wednesday, October 8, to readjust prices
adding to the confusion that was created by the opening day of classes. The items affected in the price reductions
were only textbooks used in academic courses. According to Peter Nicholls, manager of the store, the confusion was principally due
to the fact that the books had been ordered prior to the President's August 15 proclamation and that the respective
printing houses had raised their prices. The bookstore, following suit, raised their prices corresponding to the guidelines set by the
publishers.

Nicholls, receiving word of the ruling only Tuesday, Sept. 7 from the National Association of College Stores, talked to representatives
of the Cost of Living Council to verify the ruling. It was therefore necessary to sell all textbooks for the
identical prices charged during the 1970-1971 academic year or the prices charged prior to August 14 if the books were
used during the summer session. The store is making refunds for all academic items purchased prior to the Sept. 8
price reduction, Nicholls said. If a student, professor, or member of the community has reasonTo question the price charged for
a textbook, he may check the list of affected items which is posted in the bookstore. Another change in the
Davidson Student Store policy was the addition of state sales tax on all items, including all academic materials. According to
Nicholls, this was done by a recent directive from the comptroller’s office. The order was issued, according to Robert A.
Currie, business manager, because of the increase in operating expenses. The store is an auxiliary enterprise of the College which
is chartered as a non-profit organization. Therefore, the store is considered as such. The store is organized to make a
profit, the surplus going into the general fund of the college. However, there has not been any appreciable profit during
the past two fiscal years. The store does its own accounting, but expenses such as salaries and general operating expenses
including books, supplies, heat, air conditioning, electricity, and janitorial services, are paid directly by the Comptroller’s Office, according to Currie.
The store states in its basic policy concerning profits: “supplies and books are marked as low as feasible; gifts and
other items carry a normal retail profit. The store is college-owned, the staff and management are salaried and no commissions
are paid. Any excess of income over expenses is used by the college for general operating expenses.” The store grosses
a little over $150,000 a year.

Senate Begins Academic Year By Creating Chancellor Post
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

The student Senate cranked up its business this year by creating a chancellorship position to help handle the paperwork and
other functions of the student government. Sophomore Rob Strand has been offered the position for the year, and his job
will take approximately two hours per day for a five-day week at minimum wage. As an SGA employee, the chancellor
will be in charge of the minutes, functions, and physical details of the senate meetings. The chancellorship will also include
all typing, mimeographing, and secretarial work of the senate. In addition, he will be in charge of sifting solicitations that
come to the SGA and publishing them for the student body. Invitations to conferences must also be culled. Finally, the
chancellor will serve as coordinator for the National Student Association, of which Davidson is a member. He will keep in
touch with national headquarters for possible speakers and other nationwide campus information. SGA President Danny Clodfelter stated that “a chancellor
will be especially helpful in keeping the SGA running while newly-elected officers become familiar with their duties.” The senate voted
to give a $25 bonus at the end of the year if his work proved satisfactory. His yearly salary, taken
from SGA funds, will run around $500.

In other business, the senate discussed possible responses to the college if the faculty rejected SGA proposals which will come
before them in the next month. In former faculty voting, a three-fourths majority has yet to be obtained on proposals
to put students on the Admissions and Budget, Building, and Ground Committees. The proposal for open faculty meetings and the
proposal to combine social and cultural activities on campus under one umbrella committee will be voted on in October. A
shortage of parking space on campus this year was also discussed. There have been more permits issued than there are
available spaces. Senior senator Phil Dotts was appointed to investigate legal questions and to draft a traffic proposal. Fund-raising ideas
were considered, including such programs as student cooperatives on books and records. Sophomore Doug Brown and junior Reggie Kennedy were
appointed to the Senate Executive Committee and the vacancy left by senator Doug Sittler, now in France, will be filled
in the near future, pending constitutional details.

(Staff photo by Barnes)
CASE IN POINT
Bill Alexander and Bill Ralston confer.
