DEBBIE BROWN
Sentelle Hall

DEBBIE KNOWLES
Pi Kappa Alpha

Queen

Contestants

AMANDA STUBBS
Phi Alpha Chi

LYN LEVAN
Alpha Tau Omega

BRENDA WALLER
Sigma Alpha Epsilon

JANE FERRAR
College Union

BETSY TAYLOR
Beta Theta Pi

October 22, 1971

Page Three

JUDY BOUAC
Sigma Phi Epsilon

JANET YORK
Phi Delta Theta

Homecoming

1971

SALLY CLAUNCH
Kappa Alpha

SALLY BARRON
Kappa Sigma

Hundreds Return For Homecoming

A crafts show, a tour of historic buildings, a barbecue luncheon, a football game, and other entertainments have been planned for the hundreds of Davidson College alumni who will return to their alma mater tomorrow for Homecoming Day.

FLING ‘EM HIGH
The Statesville High School Band will perform tomorrow.

Davidson will be seeking its 25th win over Wofford College at 2 p.m. on Richardson Field, the first time this season that the varsity has played on its home turf.

Registration and a show of Carolina arts and crafts will take place in the old quadrangle area of the campus, between Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Halls on the south and the Cunningham Fine Arts Center on the north. Relatives of students and friends of the college have also been invited to the major events.

Between 10 and 11:30 a.m., the newly-renovated Carolina Inn, a 134-year-old former hotel now housing the Honors College program, will be open for visitors, as will other historic buildings on campus.

Also at 10 a.m., class reunion committees will meet in the Fine Arts Building to make plans for Alumni Weekend April 28-29. The Wildcat Club will hold its annual meeting at 11 a.m. in Hodson Hall of the arts center.

The annual barbecue luncheon outdoors will begin at 12 noon; tickets are still available. The normal cafeteria meal will not be held.

In case of inclement weather, events scheduled for outdoors (except the game) will be held in the College Union.

There will be music aplenty for the football game. Halftime shows will be presented by marching bands from Statesville and Lenoir high schools, and the Wildcat Pep Band will play during breaks in the game. After the game, head coach Dave Fagg and players will meet with alumni and other fans at the south end of the field.

Computer Print-Out Lists Library Periodical Stacks

By DAVID HANIG
News Editor

The library staff has listed all periodical holdings on the periodical and main stacks and in the reference room and the chemistry library on a single computer print-out.

According to Head of the Serials Department Jane Williams, the computer print-out has two main advantages: It is easier to keep up-to-date, and it is cheaper to make copies.

“Before we used the computer to catalogue our holdings, we had to type the whole list; now, we can just punch a new card and let the computer print out the changes,” Miss Williams said.

There are ten copies in the library for the use of the staff and the students, and each faculty member has his own copy.

According to Miss Williams, the library will update its copies several times throughout the year as needed, but will only update faculty copies once a year because of the cost.

GALLEY FISH CAMP
Fresh Fish-Steaks

Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson