: Aristotle's : De Sportica : 
By Dick Anderson

Ha! I bet you didn’t expect to see my by-line on the sports pages of THE DAVIDSONIAN. However, consistent with my policy of extending tentacles into all areas of Davidson life, ole’ Aristotle has infiltrated sports, too.

As this is written Tuesday I don’t know the South Carolina score, naturally, but at least we played at home. For this year’s team, playing at home has been a definite advantage, as they have lost five on the road in eight tries and the three wins have been over toughies ECU, VMI, and Georgia. We had a win over West Virginia in Charlotte and a loss in Morgantown, a win over a strong St. John’s team and choking in the final minutes against Pittsburgh, or coming close to Wake Forest while getting blown out of the Princeton gym.

Steve Kirley, on the other hand, has at least had better statistics in away games (for instance, 21 points against WVU up there and nothing like that in Charlotte). For this sort of inconsistent offensive performance, Steve wins the Rodney Knowles Award for Best Play When There Are No Students There to Watch.

On the other hand, neither Kirley nor anyone else on the team will win the Rodney Knowles Award for Awful Defense (this goes to the freshmen as a team). The defense has been tremendous all season, with a lapse against Brian Taylor at Princeton, but like everything else has been toughest at home.

Of course, this tendency to be weak away from home is unlikely to hurt us Saturday against the Richmond Plumbers, who managed to provide VMI with its first win Monday. Before the season, I figured the Wildcats would be good for 20 wins this year, too, but of course the need to replace Eric Minkin and Brian Adrian shot that down.

One disappointment I have felt this season has been the general absence from the floor of Lester Strong. Lester plays defense as well as anyone else on the team, rebounds well, and can shoot from outside, but he just doesn’t fit in Coach Holland’s offense. Lester is basically a run-and-gunner; from the stacked post he is too short, and from the wing, he gets neither room nor permission to go the one-on-one route which he could follow.

It is unfortunate that as soon as we graduated the players Strong might have replaced, we also graduated the only style of offense that suits his particular abilities.

For these reasons, Lester wins the Rocky Crosswhite On-the-Bench Award, and I win the Rocky Crosswhite Ignorant Sportswriter’s Award.

Interest Created Around Fencing
By ERINE SHIPE
Sports Writer

Professor Hiram Walker has been helping this group. Walker, he explained, is the school's expert on the sport and would be ideal to coach such a squad. Walker competed at the varsity level at Princeton and coached Duke University’s team.

Student interest has been a driving force in creating interest group clubs which later developed at Davidson into varsity teams. The soccer and sailing teams are two examples and now according to Sterling Martin there is a growing interest in fencing. Three years ago Martin began offering fencing classes as part of the physical education program and now student interest has been whetted enough that there is growing talk of creating a fencing club.

“Fencing is an ideal sport for a student at Davidson, for it has great carry-over value,” Martin said. “I’m teaching four classes of fencing each year and now we have a group of students working out individually in the afternoon from which this interest is growing,” he added.

Martin said he hasn't had time to work with the afternoon group but that Professor Francis Ghigo is another experienced fencer who could help in the program. “Fencing is a sport that gets into your blood,” Martin said. “If the interest that has been created here lasts for two or three years there is a good chance a club could be formed.”financed and start to compete.” Martin explained that finances would be a major difficulty in fielding a club. If a team could be formed, there are several schools in the area which would provide competition. North Carolina, Duke, and The Citadel are among the many area schools who have clubs, although it is not a recognized intercollegiate sport.

FRISBEE, ANYONE?

(Staff Photo by Doty)

An intense hurler works out in preparation for upcoming meets.

By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

Ray Swetenburg and Tom Richardson made particularly fine showings as the indoor track season opened last weekend with the VMI relays, according to Davidson track coach Heath Whittle. Forty-one colleges and universities were represented at the relays, among them Tennessee, Georgia, and all the ACC schools except Duke. Over seventy contestants were registered in each event. Whittle took only five men to the meet, but Swetenburg placed fifth in the 60-yard high hurdles and Richardson sixth in the 60-yard dash.

Swetenburg, a junior from Gainesville, Ga., ran a 7.3 in the hurdles for a new Davidson record. He said he felt extremely good before and during the meet and hopes to improve on this initial performance. He also commented that Whittle is looking for him to break his record of 14.6 in the 120-yard high hurdles. Richardson, another junior from Roanoke, stated that he was “particularly encouraged by his performance.” He said that he had run 6.3 a couple of times before but never so early in the year. Both admitted that the performance could be a result of their having started workouts early this year. Coach Whittle has had several members working out regularly since October.

Other members of the team who participated but did not place were Howard Boyd in the 2-mile, Steve Shankweiler in the shot, and Tom Rogers in the broad jump. However, Coach Whittle said he was “well pleased they did as well as they did.” Boyd ran his fastest ever in the 2-mile. Whittle said this year's team should give the best performance of any Davidson team ever in the conference meet. He expects a fourth-place finish behind William and Mary, Furman, and ECU. The one place he did mention where the ‘Cats may suffer is the 440. There are still two indoor meets left, the Big 7 meet at Chapel Hill and the conference championships at VMI.

Matmen To Meet Citadel

By PETER MICHAEL
Sports Writer

Davidson's wrestling team meets The Citadel tonight at 6:30 in Johnston Gym, in what looks to be a close contest. Coach Charles Parker looks for an exciting meet. “It should be real close, the teams are evenly matched. The Citadel has one outstanding wrestler, Tom Williams. Williams was the Southern Conference champion in the 190-pound class last year.”

The Wildcats are coming off of a 29-8 victory over Washington & Lee. Davidson outclassed W&L in most areas while scoring the big win. Parker was especially pleased with the performances of Ronnie Williams and Rusty Winchester, both of whom remained undefeated. Winchester scored an 8-2 victory in the 134-pound class, and Williams pinned his opponent in 4:21 of the second period.

The showing by the freshmen on the team also was a pleasing development for Parker. He praises the showing by John Secandling, Allen Tillman, Jim Purcell, and Frank Shinn. Shinn pinned his man in 1:37 of the first period. Greg Funk, another freshman, battled to a 1-1 draw and Jack Jacobs scored a 10-5 victory to round out the scoring for Davidson.

This past week, seniors Jack Jacobs and Frank Rader were chosen as co-captains for the remainder of the wrestling season.

Cornelius 892-8468 10-9 P.M.
BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET “It’s Incomparable”
Sandwiches — Pizza — Sundaes
50 FLAVOR SHAKES — FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA