Compulsory Physical Education Under Attack SGA Backs Turner Resolution

AN ANALYSIS By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor

Is a compulsory physical education program a necessary part of student life at Davidson? Junior senator Jody Turner does not
think so, and next Monday he will confront the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) with a resolution backed by the Senate
to abolish the six-term requirement in P.E. As an alternative to the program, Turner would like to make the Intramural
Athletics Council (IMAC) into an SGA committee for "creating a comprehensive intramural sports program to satisfy most Davidson students."

The two-year P.E. program is standard at a vast majority of schools across the nation, including those in the Southern
and Atlantic Coast Conferences. Reaction to the resolution in the Athletics department was varied. Physical education instructor Sterling Martin is
practically running the program on his own right now as well as spending his evenings directing intramural sports. Martin stated:
"I'm not totally opposed to the abolition of the program, but I think there is still a place for P.E.
on the campus. We have to require P.E. now to get students who would never voluntarily take the time to
come here for a little exercise. I would much rather offer a program that would induce students to come on
their own, but until we have such a set-up, the rule holds true."

Martin believes the department will need a larger staff to expand the P.E. program into more than it is now.
"If we're going to make P.E. viable at Davidson, it will require at least two more full-time instructors." Martin said
that there used to be a remedial P.E. program a few years ago, but that the idea was discontinued because
the situation became touchy and students in the group were labeled "spastics" by the other students. He added: "Look, we've
got 40% of the student body out for varsity sports and 75% involved in intramurals. In short, we're a jock
school. At the same time, 40% of an average freshman class flunk the simple PT test we give every year,
and three or four people score zero on it."

Director of Athletics and Physical Education Tom Scott feels that such a move would be a mistake for Davidson College.
"We say we are a liberal arts college to prepare students for the future, and health seems to me to
be a part of that future. All we try to do is to give basic instruction to students in carryover
sports that they can use later on in life." Commenting on expanding the intramural program as an alternative to P.E.,
Scott said, "I don't see how we can improve the IMAC here. It's working at its maximum potential now, and
the only thing we can do is to add a few more facilities. Anyone who wants to play an intramural
sport can find a place."

Scott admitted that the instruction in P.E. was not the best possible because many of the 11 coaches now on
the staff are wrapped up in their respective varsity sports and that the head coaches in basketball and football do
not instruct any classes at all. He said that it was often the case for a football coach to try
to coach a tennis class while the tennis coach was out on a scouting trip. This situation turns up in
many of the sports.

IMAC President Tom Jeter doubts that the intramural program can take the place of compulsory P.E. "I think 80% is
a conservative figure for the number of students involved in intramurals, but if you're going to abolish P.E. there must
be some other alternative program which the IMAC cannot presently provide." According to Jeter, "The gym is so crowded now
that there is not enough time in a week for all the teams to play. We have to work in
teams every spare moment that the varsity or some other group is not on the floor."

Vol. No. IX, No. Eighteen Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College, Davidson College Students Davidson, N.C. 28036 February 26, 1971

RHC Action Causes Uproar By DOUG BROWN Asst. Managing Editor

"The Residence Hall Council's action on February 9 does not change the rules governing visitation hours by women visitors as
well as I can read the Residence Hall Constitution and the Code of Responsibility." Thus Dean of Students Will H.
Terry expressed the position of the administration in a written statement to THE DAVIDSONIAN. "Just why this action was

SGA Decision By ROBERT TOUCHTON Asst. Managing Editor

A student referendum Tuesday upheld the senate’s appropriation of $1000 for an appearance of Chicago Seven member Rennie Davis on
the Davidson Campus next week. A 2/3 vote of the entire student body was required to upend the senate’s action
in an election which saw 510 students, or 64% of those voting, support the action and 284, or 36%, vote
not to approve the appropriation. An "Ad Hoc Committee to Sustain" distributed Pr“PUBLICATION CEASES

The DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication for the fall. Publication will resume after the spring break, and the first issue of the
spring term will appear on March 26.

A leaflet Monday night urged students to vote against the senate action to “display our better judgment.” Senior Chip DuRant,
who spearheaded opposition to the senate appropriation, said that although some of those who had worked with him formulated and
distributed the leaflet, he had no part in its creation. When asked about his reactions to the vote, DuRant said
that, although he was disappointed, he was pleased that 1/3 of the student body supported him. DuRant said that the
turnout was larger than he had expected.

A similar reaction came from SGA President Danny Clodfelter, who said, “I’m generally pleased with the vote, especially in the
turnout.” Clodfelter echoed the view that the question was clouded by the dual issues of money and the personage of
Davis, and that some students had difficulty in separating them.

(See STUDENTS, Page 8)

“I am not quite clear. I gather they either sought a confrontation or they wished other groups in the college
to assume the responsibility for enforcing the present regulations. If they wished to seek a liberalization of the rule or
assume a greater responsibility for student life in the dorms, there are procedures for doing this. Up to the time
of this action, things were pretty much the way the majority of students wanted them. Why they felt it necessary
to disfavor any responsibility for these regulations is quite a mystery.

The RHC used the tired old argument about the hypocrisy of having a rule without rigid enforcement. Hypocrisy does not
trouble me in most cases—some of my best friends are hypocrites, including, dare I say it, some of my student
friends. What the future holds for this issue, only time will tell.”

Various faculty members were contacted to get their reaction on the question of open dorms. Associate Professor of English Anthony
S. Abbott disagreed with the action taken by the RHC. He feels that the RHC should have worked through the
proper channels by bringing this matter before the Student Life Committee (SLC). The SLC then could have brought this matter
before the faculty so that it could have decided to maintain the regulations regarding open dorms or to amend them.

“The present rule should be enforced until formal change takes place, and I believe an attempt should be made to
get people to abide by the present rule,” said Abbott. “There are channels clearly delineated which students can use. I
want to see clear evidence of how the majority of the students feel,” he commented. “I am against 24-hour open
dorms, and I cite two major reasons. The first one is that the right of privacy would be violated, and
the second one is that the girls would be placed in a position which would be unfair,” he continued.

According to Abbott, the pressures on the girl caused by 24-hour open dorms would be unnecessary. In the Spencer Commission
Reports published in THE DAVIDSONIAN of November 7, 1969, one report read in part: “As for the sexual conduct of
students, the Commission is aware that probably it will be worse than useless to attempt to apply old standards to
control sexual behavior. In all likelihood, the students will engage in a long war of attrition, to the detriment of
everyone, as they press for freedoms in line with contemporary morality. While the social lives of the students are the
College’s responsibility to foster, the sexual lives of the students are their own responsibility.”

Abbott was referred to this passage, and he replied, “My position is not inconsistent with this. Open dorms is not
only a question of sexual conduct. There are two points which should be borne in mind. The first is that
a dorm room is like a home, and the individual ought to have the right to use it without his
rights being infringed on by his roommate’s date. Also, it is the responsibility of the college not to place people
in situations of undue temptation.”

Assistant Professor of German Hansford M. Epes Jr. said, “The RHC cannot declare open dorms. It can say that it
won't enforce current rules, and announcing this would not be much of a surprise. The action of the RHC is
of monumental insignificance.” It was recalled by Epes that a year ago the Student Life Committee, of which he was
a member, voted to endorse open dorms if the residents wanted it. The recommendation of the Student Life Committee was
presented to the faculty.

(See RHA, Page 2)

Mrs. Austra Gaige and Windy March have some interesting viewpoints on the South Asian Festival this week on Page 3.

Editorials .................... Page 4.

Burney FREY
