(Staff photo by Doty)

IN THE SPIRIT OF THE NEW SOCIAL SYSTEM?

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Marr Tells Fable Of Peril

To the Editor:

Once upon a time, many long years ago, when distances were ever so much farther than they are today, there
lived three trolls: a Big Troll, a Middlesized Troll, and a Little Troll. Now, like all trolls in the land,
these three had two distinguishing characteristics; they lived under a bridge, and they had each been endowed at birth with
a Little Red Wagon which they were to fill at the proper time with fruit from the Land of Plenty.
So if you ever see a man pulling a Little Red Wagon who lives under a bridge, you know he
is a troll.

The trolls began their arduous journey, but not before asking directions of the Wise Old Sage of the Forest. The
Wise Old Sage of the Forest warned them: “The way is long and difficult. But by far, the most difficult
part of the journey is at the Three-way Fork. Now the greatest dangers are the Pit of Despair and the
Canyon of Complacency; one road at the fork goes to the Pit of Despair, another goes to the Canyon of
Complacency, and the third leads to the Land of Plenty. The Right fork will satisfy you, the Left fork is
the shortest, and the Middle fork never ends.”

By and by the trolls had hauled their Little Red Wagons up to the Three Way Fork. The Middlesized Troll,
who was Conservative and afraid to gamble, said: “I will take the Right fork, for then I will be assured
of being satisfied.” And he did, despite Little Troll’s warning that he would be stupid to haul his Little Red
Wagon so far, and despite Big Troll’s admonition that satisfaction might not be the same thing as happiness.

Then Little Troll, who was somewhat lazy, said: “I will take the Left fork, because it is the shortest.” And
he did, despite Big Troll’s warning that the easy way is not necessarily the best way.

Then Big Troll, who was adventurous, said “I will take the Middle fork because it seems the most exciting.” And
he did.

Now before long, the Left fork upon which Little Troll was traveling ended abruptly in a deep chasm. And before
he knew it, Little Troll had pulled his Little Red Wagon into it. He spent the rest of his life
trying vainly to climb out.

Sometime later, the Right fork upon which Middlesized Troll was traveling ended in a box canyon. Fortunately, the canyon was
filled with enough nuts and berries to prevent starvation, but Middlesized Troll soon became bored with such a small place,
and try as he might, he could never find his way out.

The Middle fork upon which Big Troll was traveling was lined with ever-increasingly plentiful and tasty fruit. However, Big Troll
soon discovered a strange fact; and that was that the further he hauled his Little Red Wagon, the farther he
had to go. And yet, the journey became increasingly pleasant. Also, he found that the more he traveled, the stronger
he became, so that he was soon able to help other people pull their Little Red Wagons. Big Troll lived
unsatisfied, but happily ever after.

MORAL: There has been much discussion lately about education at Davidson. I see two possible pitfalls in outlooks on the
subject. The first is the trap of thinking that a Davidson education is hopelessly devoid of either meaning or of
innovation. This is simply untrue; there are numerous possibilities that have been created within the past several years. Did you
know, for example, that you can take basic Abnormal Psychology as a seminar in the summer while working (and being
paid!) as an attendant at Broughton Mental Hospital? That twenty-three fellow students are doing extended studies in the penal institutions
in the area, while at the same time pioneering a model internship that is being observed eagerly by a number
of other schools? That others are doing a pre-law internship which includes helping the Legal Aid Society? And of course
everyone knows of Davidson’s unique Humanities Program; and of the possibilities available within the Honors College and the North Carolina
Fellows program (even if they are guilty of an unjustified elitism). But by far the most significant change has been
a change in atmosphere; new and dynamic forms of education are being encouraged more.

March 26, 1971

Page Five

The Davidsonian

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Workman Lists Innovation

Thank you for calling attention, in your editorial of February 27, to the improvements in our educational program made actual
in some cases and probable in others by the expansion of the Junior Year Abroad, the development in the Honors
College and the Eight College Exchange Program, and the almost unlimited opportunities in Extended Studies. And thanks to Paul Rowland
(same issue) for praising Dr. E. L. Palmer and Dr. Randall Kincaid for their innovations in procedures of evaluation. It
might encourage further effort on the part of the faculty.than ever. Students are encouraged to pursue independent research, and to
participate in such programs as the Charlotte Urban Internship.

Orpheus

DAVID HANIG > Copy Editor

The legend of Orpheus and Euridice has proved to be a fertile source for dramatists. “Orfeu Negro,” which will be
shown next Thursday at 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium as part of the Fine Films series, is the screen adaptation
of one such play by the Brazilian poet-diplomat Vinicius de Moraes. As a film on the Orpheus legend, “Orfeu Negro’s”
emphasis is radically different; whereas the classical myth emphasizes Orpheus’ attempt to raise Euridice from the dead, “Orfeu Negro” stresses
the love between Orfeu and Euridice.

Euridice, played by Marpessa Dawn—a dancer from Pittsburgh and the only non-Brazilian in the cast—comes to the favelas of Rio,
those shantytowns which give the most beautiful views of the bay in the city, to flee from a mysterious stranger
who wants to kill her. There she meets Orfeu, a streetcar conductor played by Breno Mello, who used to play
for the Botafogo soccer team, and they both fall in love with each other immediately.

Euridice, however, flees from Death to the Rio power plant where she disappears. Distraught, Orfeu looks for her in hospitals,
at the Bureau of Missing Persons, and finally, tries to raise her from the dead with macumba, the Brazilian variety
of voodoo. In the end, Orfeu joins Euridice in death, and a boy of the favelas picks up Orfeu’s guitar
and starts to play as the sun comes up.

The Carnival setting lends the film a great sense of life; Death’s pursuit of Euridice, however, reminds us that Death
is present even amidst the greatest vitality. The setting heightens the tragedy of the two young lovers and gives the
film a surrealistic flavor.

It would be unfair not to mention the importance of the music to “Orfeu Negro.” The score, composed by Antonio
Carlos Jobim and Luiz Bonfa and sung by Joao Gilberto, reflects the melancholic mood of the film. As the first
example of bossa nova, which has since become popular in the U.S., the score’s influence has gone beyond the limits
of Brazil to affect the popular music of the West.

Faculty and administration should make mention of other steps in the right direction (cp. shaping behavior by the method of
reinforcing approximations, Skinner et al.). Allow me to list what seems to me to be important new developments in which
the Department of Psychology is involved. I am sure that this department is not unique:

1. The Advanced Experimental Psychology course, greatly modified this year by Dr. John Kelton, which last fall dealt with verbal
learning and which will probably be concerned with behavior genetics next fall.

2. The rigorous investigations now under way in which Rick Gourdin is studying the operant learning of autonomic responses, an
aspect of learning widely thought impossible until recently.

3. Glenn Mauney’s Senior Thesis, a study of auditory discrimination and possible “experimental neurosis” in the pigeon, a truly pioneer
study.

4. Hugh Marr's projected Senior Thesis involving the designing of a new programmed course.

5. The field work at Broughton Hospital now in its second term, with five students spending about six hours each
Wednesday in close contact with staff and patients. This has four students registered for Spring term.

6. A similar program set up for Western Carolina Center next term. At Western Carolina Center there will be opportunity
for the Davidson students to engage in basic research on retardation.

7. The program for students to work in a therapeutic program for pay while living at Broughton Hospital and taking
Davidson's Abnormal Psychology this summer.

8. The venture, supervised by Dr. E. L. Palmer, in which a number of students will gain firsthand knowledge of
penal institutions in North Carolina.

9. The revision of the Statistics and Experimental Psychology course to coordinate them under the team of Dr. John Kelton
and Dr. Russell Walls.

Any of us in the Department of Psychology will be glad to tell you or your reporters and writers more
about these phases of our work.

W. C. Workman
Davidson College

Pitfalls

Program; professors are creating possibilities like the tutorials now available at Western Carolina and Broughton, while encouraging students to revise
the lower level courses. Ah, but Gentle Reader, don't be tempted by the preceding observation to climb out of the
Pit of Despair only to fall into the Canyon of Complacency. There is so much that remains to be done.
The recent changes at Davidson fail to keep pace with our increasing knowledge about how people learn best; motivation here
is still provided largely by grades instead of excitement about the subject; and diplomas still take precedence over ideas in
many courses.

The important idea for students, professors, and administration alike to remember is that education is not a thing—rather it is
a process. It is up to all of us to increase the rate of process.

Hugh Marr ‘71
Davidson College

In Psychology Department
To the Editor:
