Page Two April 23, 1971

The Davidsonian

Workman To Replace Hall As Clinical Psychologist

By DAVID HANIG
Copy Editor

Meredith Hall, the college's clinical psychologist, will be replaced by Professor of Psychology William G. Workman in the position of
clinical psychologist next year, it was announced recently, promoting a mild student protest movement.

“I really appreciate the support I’ve received but I don't really enjoy being in the middle of a controversy,” Hall
said. “I have the feeling that the administration sincerely wanted to keep me here.

“I really liked being here. I have no negative feelings about my work here.”

Under the impression that there would be no clinical psychologist to replace Hall, the SGA Senate passed unanimously a resolution
Monday night that said that there was a need for “the vital services of a clinical psychologist for next year,
whose only responsibility to the college is counseling.”

Workman will teach one course per term next year and will be available the rest of the time for counseling.
Dean of Students Will H. Terry maintained that “it will be advantageous to have a counselor on campus during the
day and not just one or two evenings a week, as is the present case.” Terry said that Workman “will
be available for student counseling just as Mr. Hall was, and the same confidentiality will be maintained along with the
same operational procedure as before.

“Dr. Workman served in this capacity on a very limited basis but successfully until three years ago when his teaching
load required him to give up this function.”

Controversy arose last week when it was learned that Hall’s contract would not be renewed. According to an unidentified senator,
the senate suspected that a member of the psychology department would be named to fill Hall's position.

“If he taught any courses, that would be next to nothing because the only people who would go to see
him would be psychology majors eager to get those good old brownie points,” the senator said.

By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

The Pi Kappa Phi house will be in the hands of a group of about sixty freshmen next year, according
to Dean of Students Will H. Terry. In accord with the offer of the new social system, the group put
in a request for a house with the administration. In the midst of discussion, several houses on the fraternity court
asked the group to join with them and the Pi Kappa Phi house was decided upon.

“The final agreement,” said Terry, “was that the freshman group would be given a house in exchange for allowing the
present members eating at the house to remain there as a group.

“We were very impressed with the ingenuity of this freshman group, and we see it as a positive response to
the new social system.” Terry added, “We realize the dangers of this situation for the future and will seek to
deal with these as fairly as possible next year.”

The group was formed from a small group of freshmen at first who had no other reason for association than
friendship, but they organized and spread their invitation through the grapevine until the ranks swelled to a sizable number.

Final consent for the house came from the Student Life Committee, which has also given “tentative approval” to two other
requests from groups interested in taking over the Sigma Phi Epsilon and Phi Gamma Delta houses.

The Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Contributors this week:
Charlie Terrell, Windy March, and Frank Soos.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

Copy Editors:
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Ass’t Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
CHARLIE RALSTON

Reaction to Hall's dismissal among the student body has been strong. A poster placed on the Wailing Wall in the
College Union last Sunday implied that the administration is more interested in obtaining alumni funds than in the mental health
of the student body.

“We really need a guy to help the students with their problems around here,” one student said. “When the administration
gets rid of the guy we have now for financial reasons, and then turns around to hire another guy to
get alumni money, that really hurts.”Groups with requests are still subject to the self-selection program until the maximum number of
eighty members is reached in a house. According to Terry, any group may make a request for a house, as
stipulated in the provisions of the Committee of Eighteen. Terry predicts that six to nine houses on Patterson Court will
be in operation at the beginning of next year.

On Wednesday, Vice-President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan invited representatives from four houses which tentatively are planning to go
off campus next year to a meeting to discuss the feasibility of such a move. Representatives from Kappa Alpha and
Sigma Phi Epsilon showed up, but Sigma Chi and Phi Delta Theta did not attend. Bevan confronted the group with
a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling which upholds the right of state institutions to require students to live on campus.
The initial ruling came from the federal court in Monroe, Louisiana, on September 21, 1970, against a suit filed by
three students from the Louisiana Polytechnic Institute. This ruling was upheld on April 5, with the court stating that “there
is nothing unconstitutional about state colleges requiring all unmarried undergraduates to live in dormitories on campus."

Since Davidson is not a state school, the ruling is not particularly relevant, but Bevan explained that such a decision
could easily apply to a private institution in the court. Because of this legal stand, Bevan suggested that “the fraternities
in question not invest vast sums of money in a rash way to go off campus.” He said that he
was referring to the Phi Gamma Delta group which is considering a $50,000 investment for another house; but since this
group has not officially rejected the new social system, it was not invited to attend the meeting. Fraternity member Sammy
Fisher said that he felt the meeting strained the relations of the court with the college. “I got the idea
that we were being intimidated, and that the whole thing was just a threat.”

Miscellany Expanding; Meza Plans Improvement
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Asst. Managing Editor

The Miscellany, Davidson's literary magazine, is on the threshold of becoming one of the major literary journals in America, according
to its editor, Mark Meza. In order to gain more money for its operations, the journal has “improved rapidly” and
has recently received numerous grants from sources in North Carolina. Meza hopes to receive a portion of the money which
will become available if the budget for the college yearbook is cut next year. Meza says, however, that the yearbook
budget cuts will not go to the Miscellany automatically. “We hope, however, that we will have made sufficient progress by
next fall to be able to put in a request for increased funds showing the progress we've made.”

The Red Clay Reader, which has served as the Charlotte area's major literary publication for several years, is now defunct,
and Meza hopes his magazine can take its place in serving the area. The last issue is now selling in
bookstores in this area and in Durham and Chapel Hill. A grant from the Activities Fund will allow the magazine
to send copies to “sure-bet” subscribers from London to Hawaii. Many of these copies will be sent to libraries. With
another grant, a competition in poetry, fiction, and hopefully, art, will be instituted next year for North Carolina writers in
general. The best entries will be published in the Miscellany, and cash prizes totaling $300 will be awarded.

According to Meza, “It’s amazing how much material we've gotten. There have never been as many contributors in any area
as there have been this year. There are, for instance, triple the contributions of any past year in fiction and
poetry.” Recent contributions have come from places as distant as the Netherlands and South America, as well as from writing
colonies in this country. Because of these new contributions, the magazine now has the ability to publish twice as many
good works as in the past. Additionally, the Miscellany has finally become nationally recognized. Reviewers as far away as Michigan
and California have promised to critique the magazine, and three recent poetry volumes mention the Miscellany alongside The Sewanee Review
and The New Yorker.

A student at Davidson has been suspended from school for theft by the Honor Court. The trial was held Tuesday
night, and the defendant was convicted of stealing a number of records from the College Bookstore.
