Certainly! Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Ceveteees econ 2 (Staff photo by Rodriguez) CLEARING THE BOARDS Wildkitten Sheldon Parker thwarts a Clemson score attempt.

Soccer, Rugby
By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

The season is over for Davidson rugby club, but it is just beginning for Davidson's soccer club. Both clubs have
one thing in common: the prospects of brightness in the near future.

Senior Dick Levan said, “First, we have to get organized.” Levan continued, “so that we won't have any eligibility problems
with underclassmen who play on the varsity team. So, we are going to get chartered with the N.C.A.A. after Christmas.
We also want to organize two teams from Davidson, one whose core is international students and one whose core is
the underclassmen soccer team members.

“There are somewhere between 5 and 10 teams in this area who are interested in playing us, and after we
get chartered, we hope that we can get a league organized.”

The soccer club played its first game last Sunday without the services of the underclassmen soccer team members due to
eligibility complications, without the international students since a Christmas party was being given for them, and without several other club
members due to various other conflicts. They lost.

F&M Takes Lead, IMAC Swim Crown
By HARWOOD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

Fanny and Mabel captured the IMAC swim meet last week, edging Cannon II 55-51, and padded their commanding lead in
the IMAC standings. Rollie Sunwalt stroked to victories in the 100-yard freestyle and 50-yard backstroke to pace the champions. Randy
Parker had a second and a third and Bobby Kelly was runner-up in the diving.

The outstanding performer in the meet was Bob Horton of SPE’s. He set new records in the 100-yard individual medley
(1:03.5) and the 50-yard breaststroke (31.4), and swam a leg on the victorious 200-yard medley relay team. The only other
record went to Jim Jernigan of Cannon II in the diving competition, with 97.5 points.

Daron Ferris of Cannon II was another double winner, copping the 50-yard freestyle butterfly, and he also anchored the winning
200-yard freestyle relay. F&M grabbed second in the 200-yard medley relay, while John Johnston and Bill Barnhill took third and
fourth in the 50-yard breaststroke. F&M also garnered third in the 200-yard freestyle relay, and Johnston was fifth in the
individual medley to give the winners their 55 points.

The rest of the team scoring went as follows: third, SPE’s (43 points), Delts (32), Watts I (17), Emanon and
Sentelle II (6 each), Betas (3), Sentelle I (2), and Watts III (1).

The overall point standings show F&M leading with 560 points, followed by the Delts at 393.88, with the SPE’s moving
up to third (347.60) after picking up 112.46 in swimming. The SAE’s are fourth (256.70), followed by Emanon (241.98), PAX
(240.50), and Sentelle I (224.84).

Basketball got underway this week, with a full slate of games. There are three 19-team leagues, and after round robins
within each league, the top four teams in each will go into the tournament. Overall won-lost percentage will determine the
IMAC champion.

The Davidsonian | December 17, 1971 | Page Seven

‘Kittens Topple ECU, Furman With Tough Defensive Efforts
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

This is the Age of Aquarius, where harmony and understanding are abounding. After a lackluster start, the Davidson Wildkittens have
finally realized that, and their basketball worksheet after three games stands 2-1.

In their opening contest against Clemson, the 'Kittens were plagued by a lack of harmony and understanding and fell to
the Cubs 109-87. A major reason for the defeat is that the ‘Kittens were simply not used to working as
a unit. “We were real nervous, and that plus the fact that Clemson has a damn good team were big
factors,” explained coach.

---to the Charlotte Soccer Club. Bill Vaughn scored the only Wildcat goal. Levan said that scheduling was very incomplete at
this time, but that the club would be playing the Charlotte Soccer Club and the Concord High School Team within
three weeks after the Christmas break.

The Davidson rugby club has just finished its fall season. The team completed the season with a 2-4 record, ending
with a 31-12 blitz of the Charlotte rugby club. Davidson led at the half by a 25-0 score. Sam Upchurch,
Tom McKenzie, and Billy Mohr, among others, sparked the win. Zack Mobley, head of the club, spoke optimistically of the
coming spring season. The team will play South Carolina, Duke, Hampden-Sydney, U.N.C., Clemson, and the James River rugby club. Mobley
also mentioned that the Duke VII Tournament and the Tulane Mardi Gras Tournament were possibilities. Except for the tourneys, only
the Duke game is an away game.

Mobley cited several reasons for being optimistic about facing the tough schedule. “We are looking for more people to come
out to play,” he commented, “because several members of the football team will join us. We hope to have enough
people so that we can form a B Team. We are hoping for a winning season.” Mobley continued, “Due to
the number of home games we have on our schedule, I think our record will be significantly better than our
record was this season.”

The ‘Kittens were really roughed around by the hulking front line of the Cubs, and they were victimized by the
outstanding play of Doug Lowe, who bombed the nets for 30 points. Larry Horowitz took scoring honors for the 'Kittens
with 24. The second game saw the ‘Kittens employ a full-court pressure defense to topple East Carolina 69-66. Offensively, the
‘Kittens could not score enough to enjoy a comfortable margin, according to Postma. “Our defense won that one for us,”
he commented.

Playing before a friendly home crowd in Johnston Gym, the ‘Kittens blasted the Baby Paladins of Furman 99-73. Greg Dunn
and Sheldon Parker were the pacesetters for the ‘Kittens with 31 and 18 points respectively. The ‘Kittens were able to
overcome a 28-point performance by huge 7-1 Fessor Leonard to subdue the Baby Paladins. Dunn was here, there, and everywhere
all night, making fast break layups and hitting shots from all angles. Despite the high-scoring outcome, Postma again credited the
defensive play of the ‘Kittens as a key to victory. “I would say that defense is our strongest point at
this stage of the season,” he noted.

The starting lineup has been relatively stable so far. The four scholarship players, Horowitz, Dunn, Parker, and Jim Lowry, are
playing well together and they are developing into a harmonious unit. Forward Craig Crosswhite has been the fifth starter, with
the exception of the Furman game when Mike Whalen started. Whalen’s quickness made a big difference in the effectiveness of
the pressure defense. When Postma and coach Jim Larranaga have turned to their bench, they have found several capable replacements
in Joe Duncan, a fine all-around player; Jud Cuttino, an excellent outside shooter, and reliable point man Tim Spencer.

Phone 892-2111
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.—Wed 9 to 12—Sun. 9:30 to 10:30
Davidson, N. C.
Complete Prescription Service—Sundries—Toiletries
Cosmetics—Russell Stover Candies
131 N. Main St.
170 N. Main

Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Field Jackets—P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N. C.

WE WISH YOU ALL A VERY “MERRY CHRISTMAS” AND “HAPPY NEW YEAR”
FROM
-Ron and Keith
Davidson College Dining Services

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.
Jewelry

CAMP LINDENMERE
Children’s co-ed camp in the Poconos
Conducting staff interviews on campus on Sunday, December 19th. If interested, please either write Mike Sharff, 624 E. 19 St.,
B’klyn, N. Y. or call Pepi Diamond, 609-892-3735.

OPEN 9-8
The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY
