Page Two October 15, 1971 The Davidsonian

Reflection Pervades
By TOM AINSWORTH
Staff Writer

Conservative speakers, liberal speakers, workshops, and intimate discussions highlighted Moratorium Day 1971 on campus Wednesday. A film and a conscientious
objector workshop kicked off the day’s activities at 10 a.m.

At 1:30 p.m. on the Union porch, Ron Young, the Youth Director for the Fellowship of Reconciliation and member of
several other peace groups, sharply criticized the government’s reasons for continuing the war, saying that they “don’t hold up any
more.” His argument was threefold, the first being that the Nixon administration has repeatedly used the contention that the North
Vietnamese are unwilling to negotiate. Young cited, however, that as early as Sept. 1, 1967, the North Vietnamese in Paris
have proposed peace plans, the most recent one calling for a withdrawal of all United States troops by Dec. 31,
whereby an immediate ceasefire would take effect and POWs would be released parallel to troop pullout.

Secondly, he called the government’s use of the POWs themselves as a cause for prolonging the war “absurd,” since doing
so only increases their number. Finally, Young dispelled the pretext of American involvement as related to keeping the national self-determination
in South Vietnam, since the Thieu regime, he said, was “... not a popular government” as seen by some 50,000
political prisoners being held by the Saigon government.

Michael Thompson, a YAF representative, spoke in Love Auditorium at 7 p.m. with quite a different objective in mind. Supporting
the government’s Vietnam policy, Thompson indicated an effort by American newsmen to discredit American involvement in Vietnam, a greater number
of anti-war literature being put on bookshelves, and a general lack of knowledge by the American public on the war’s
issues as causing the widespread feeling of opposition to it.

His personal reasons for support of the government's Vietnam policy were many. He noted the strategic value of the country
in relation to stopping the spread of Communism, thus revitalizing the old domino theory. Probably his most notable reason was
that the Vietnam war was not a civil war but clearly an act of outside aggression by North Vietnam, who
he feared would stage a massive retaliation invasion once American troops withdrew.

Following Thompson, the principal speaker of the evening, Sister Elizabeth McAlister of the Harrisburg conspiracy trial related some of the
more disturbing events of the government, which she saw as intensifying. The first was Nixon himself, whose wage price freeze
and announced China visit she believed to be only a “... smokescreen to put the war into the background.” Next
came the Supreme Court, which to her, would eventually become favorable to most of Nixon's policies from his own appointees
in that Senate.

Senate Qualifies
By TOM BRUCE
Staff Writer

The student Senate voted Tuesday to favor the Administration’s new comprehensive fee plan with seven qualifications. The vote ended several
weeks of senate inquiry into the matter, culminating last week with

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
CECIL BURNEY
TODD HOBBIE
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
DAVID HANIG

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Photography Editor:
JOHN DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON
ALEC HOON

Copy Editors:
BOBBIE BLACKWOOD
JAMES HANNA

Advertising Manager:
WHIT WHITWORTH

Assistant Copy Editor:
BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY

Ass’t Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER
CHARLIE TERRELL
HOWARD BOYD

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
TERRY HIRST
STEVE BALCUM

Circulation Managers:
STEVE SHEPHERD
GREG MITCHELL

Photographers:
BILL BARNES
FRANK ERWIN
PAUL HORWITZ
TOM CAMPBELL

Contributors This Week:
Thomas Ainsworth, David Arant, Tom Bruce, Bill Giduz, Bill Morriss, Frank Soos.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

The two most important priorities which she saw the American government concerned with were law and order plus war and
death, and the consequential loss of various civil liberties in doing so. “I guess what I'd like to make clear,
is that I am not interested in overthrowing the government, but rather in changing the attitudes and priorities of the
people,” she said.

Moratorium Photos By Bill Barnes

The distribution of an eight-page report on the fee compiled by Todd Eades. Eades recommended favoring the fee with four
reservations. He exempted board fees from the comprehensive fee. He also requested that a definite amount of money per student
be budgeted for the Activities Fee and the Social Fee. He included the stipulation that these two fees not be
a lesser amount per student during the first year of the comprehensive fee than in the immediately preceding year. Senate
action added three more qualifications. They asked that the definitions of resident and non-resident students be discussed and re-drawn. Student
Body Vice President Bill Alexander indicated that this definition should make some provision for the single Davidson student who lives
off-campus. The senate also specified that a breakdown of fees per student covered in the Comprehensive Fee shall be submitted
to the senate yearly. Finally, the senate asked that the administration delineate the procedures by which new categories can be
included in the fee. Student Body President Danny Clodfelter then appointed a committee to meet with John M. Bevan and
C. David Cornell, the two college vice-presidents, to discuss the matter at length. The committee will be composed of Bill
Alexander, Todd Eades, David Foerster, Bill Ralston, and Bo Phillips. The Senate By-laws on the Finance Committee have been amended
by a senate vote to allow the committee to conduct its business independently, reserving the right of the senate to
discuss the committee’s recommendations when necessary.

Concerts, Football, Queen To Highlight Homecoming By JOE EARLE Sports Editor

Despite cancellations and scheduling problems, the schedule for next weekend's Homecoming activities has been set. The weekend opens with a
soccer game at 3 p.m. Friday with Guilford College. Friday night the first major concert will feature The Paul Winter
Consort. The Winter Consort is a jazz-rock band, featuring guitar, cello, piano, and a horn section. A mini-concert will be
held in the Morrison Room at 12:30 a.m. Saturday, featuring Uncle Walt’s Band, a four-piece blues and folk band from
Spartanburg, S.C. After the concert, breakfast will be served for $1.00 per person. Saturday a luncheon is being served for
alumni and students at the Fine Arts Quadrangle. The cost of the meal will be covered by a student’s meal
ticket. Students without meal tickets will be charged $1.50. The Wildcat football team will meet the Wofford Terriers at 2
p.m., followed by a post-game interview with Head Coach Dave Fagg and the football team. The 1971 Homecoming Queen will
be announced at halftime. The second big concert will feature The Flying Burrito Brothers at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium.
The Burritos are a five-man California country-rock band, featuring ex-Byrd Chris Hillman and “Sneaky” Pete on steel guitar. The weekend
festivities will close with a dance in Chambers Dining Hall featuring Lucifer. The Bar will be open at all times
during the weekend with a professional bartender to mix drinks.
