Sidelines with HOWARD BOYD Assistant Sports Editor

(Ed. note: This is the conclusion of the IMAC predictions begun last week.)

For all you guys who missed getting your name in the paper last week, here’s the second half of the IMAC mid-season pre-season preview. (In all honesty, I did write this last week, but my boss decided to run it in two parts so here it is.) For those of you who are wondering, yes I did receive the American Journalistic Association “Prophet of the Week” award for last week’s article. Take that cynics! Forthwith:

League B Division 1

1. SAE—Third year ago, E’s should be even better this year. Peyton Prospere and Roy Campbell play pitch and catch very well, and along with Steve Draper and Cook Wilson spearhead the offense. Bruce Baird and Dave Weaver are defensive standouts of all-star caliber, while Earl McCall is a top soph prospect. Loss of do-it-all Bob Meadows, team leader, hurt, but more speed and talent, plus vastly improved defense should propel SAE’s to divisional title.

2. Indies—Indies look much improved, with a tough defense and paced on offense by the accurate arm of Rob Benton. Versatile Mike Byrne, veteran Ed Kanoy, and rangy Scott McMichael are two-way performers. Experienced Mike O'Malley at end and halfback Gerry Bello, the holler-guy, perform well on offense, while Don Parman excels on defense. May give E’s a run for the top.

3. KA—KA's should be improved, with more speed and a better defense. Tailback Steve Williams ranks among the league’s best, while halfback Bob Solberg and soph John Brandon complete a solid backfield. Wily vet Charlie Terrell and speedy soph Chris Holly are the ends. Sammy Fisher is a capable defender, as is Daryl Williams. Frank Smith and Charlie Conklin are other good sophs. KA’s lack depth to win, but may surprise.

4. Cannon III—Disorganization and inexperience spell disaster for this frosh team, which appears doomed to a bad season. Kenny Eiler, Henry Barber, Bob Reni, tailbacks Alan Williams and Bill Todd, Tom Scarritt, and Mike Grizzard are some of the top performers. This team will improve game-by-game, but has a long way to go.

5. Sentelle II—Much the same outlook for Sentelle II as for Cannon III. Simply lack experience and cohesiveness. Chris Young and Reggie Harding are tailbacks, Russ McCloy and Rollie White at ends, while Tim Patton and Billy Lynn are others who play regularly.

Division II

1. Sentelle I—Another good freshman team, with a chance to win in the IMAC’s weakest league. Tailback Steve Pembridge, halfback Kevin Brode and Reid Moore, and ends Larry Horowitz and Bill MacKinnon pace the offense. Greg Dunn and Tim Spencer are defensive leaders. The defense has been carrying the brunt of the load, but the offense has potential and this is a team to watch.

2. Emanon I—The core of last year’s best frosh team bolsters returning Pi Kap regulars to form a solid club, which has a good chance for individual honors. Tailback Calvin Allen is clever and quick, and halfbacks Robbie Little and Gary Bressler are fast; all are sophs. Larry Ruddel and Pat Curley are veteran offensive performers. Mike Thompson, rusher Clint McCaan, Rick Mack, and Jimmy Hunter are top defenders.

3. Watts II—Largely an unknown quantity, but looks to be among the better frosh squads. Dwight Plemmons and Mark Rodgman are the tailbacks with Bob Jacobs at halfback. Barry Blakely and Al Zimmerman anchor the line, while Neil Imus and Mitch Stove platoon on defense. Lack of depth may hurt this team.

4. SPE’s—Last year’s runner-up were ruined by dissension, but are better than they have shown thus far. Bill Alexander is forced to play out of position at tailback due to Buzz Tarver’s premature retirement. Eddie Johnston, Dave Tierney, Rick Stansbury, Bob Horton, Hal Catner, and Jeff Graham are others who are playing. SPE’s should improve over the season, but lack of a proven tailback and a porous defense point to a long season.

5. PAX—The other half of the SPE split, PAX is equally as bad. Tailback Tom Dover has a strong arm but lacks speed. Larry Duncan is a capable halfback, and along with Rob Krebs and Steve Earp forms the nucleus of the offense, which has been impotent in early action. On the other hand, the defense is pitiful. Rusher Sam McAliley, Steve Earp, and John Scandling, a trio of sophs, along with vets Robert Gates and Sefton Stevens are the best of the lot on defense.

With the flickerball season gone, there are tight races shaping up in all four divisions. Through Wednesday, the Phi Delts, the Kappa Sigs, the SAE’s, and Sentelle I held slim leads in their respective divisions. The Delts won their only two encounters during a very wet opening two weeks of the year marred by two days of rainouts. They beat the KA’s in their first game, playing a strong second half. End Jim Brown led the way tothe 33-13 triumph, scoring two touchdowns. A tight defense helped them to their second win, a 30-6 rout of the Pi Kap’s number 1 team. Cannon I, aided by two forfeits, is a close second to the Delts. Besides their wins by forfeit over Sentelle II and Watts II, they beat the Snus 18-7 and lost to the Betas 46-7. The ATO’s dropped their first two games, 32-19 to the SAE’s and 31-12 to the Sigs. But since those two losses, the Taus have thumped the PAX 37-6 and Watts I 34-6. 

The Betas have followed the same pattern as the ATO’s, losing first to the Indies 25-0 and then to the Pikas 27-0 before bouncing back to whip the SPE’s 50-21 and Cannon I. At the bottom of League A’s Division I is Watts I, which beat Cannon II 19-6 in its first outing and has not won since. The Kappa Sigs and the Pikas are both unbeaten in Division II. The Sigs began their season by romping over the Chis 39-0, and then beat the ATO’s. The Pikas, after easily beating the Betas in their first contest, shut out the Sigma Nus, 30-0. Cannon-Watts won its first two games of the season, beating Watts I 27-15 and Sentelle II 52-0. But, in Wednesday’s action, they were nipped by Pi Kappa Phi II, 7-0. In that 7-0 defensive struggle, Frank Somerville scored for the Pi Kaps early in the game, and the defense held Cannon-Watts the rest of the way. 

In other games, the Pi Kaps number 2 team has defeated the Sig Eps, 40-7, and dropped a 47-18 decision to the SAE’s. The Sigma Nus lost their first two games to Sentelle I, 25-13, and to Cannon I before blanking Cannon II, 12-0. Then they lost to the Pikas. In League B, the Division I leader is SAE. The SAE’s have turned back the ATO’s and Pi Kappa Phi II. The Independents are second in the division, having lost only to the Sigs. They have beaten the Betas, the winless SPE’s by a 51-13 score, and Cannon II. The KA’s had an easy time in their second game, romping over the Chis, 60-7, and they rolled up a big score against hapless Sentelle II in winning, 45-25. But in their first game, they were defeated by the Delts. Cannon II lost to Watts I in its first game, beat Watts II 19-6 in its second game, and has not won since. They have dropped games to the Sigma Nus and the Indies since then. But Sentelle II has fared worse than that. That team has yet to win in four outings, giving it the worst record in the IMAC. 

The Division II leader is Sentelle I, which has won over the Snus, and Sentelle II. In its last outing, the team lost a heartbreaker to the Chis, 20-19. The Pi Kaps number 1 team lost its first game to the Delts, but easily beat Watts II, 26-6. The Chis dropped their first three games to the Sigs, the KA’s, and the ATO’s before winning a squeaker over the division-leading Sentelle I team. Watts II and the Sig Eps are both winless. The freshmen have lost to Cannon II, forfeited to Cannon I, and lost to Pi Kappa Phi I. The SPE’s have dropped successive games to the Pi Kaps number 2 team, the Independents, and the Betas. 

Kappa Sigs Take IMAC Link Title

Led by Bobby Kelley and Peter Jorgenson, the Kappa Sigs eked out a victory in the IMAC golf tourney last Tuesday. The Sig team, Kelley, Jorgenson, Davis Beaston, and Tony Martin, posted a combined score of 154. The SAE’s and Cannon-Watts tied for second at 157. A “best ball" method of scoring was employed in the tournament to allow four men to play for a team. Under this system, two players posted a combined score. Both played out each hole and the better score was recorded. The best individual score was posted by a freshman from Cannon I, the fourth-ranked team. Richard Anderson shot a 78 to qualify as individual low score. Anderson's partner, Bob Reni, shot an 80 to give them a team total of 158, one stroke off the second-place tie. Both of the second-place teams employed four linkers. The SAE’s team consisted of Steve Battle, Dave Faison, Carl Patterson, and Nick Livengood. Mike Parham and Robert Clayton led the tying freshmen. The remaining scores were: PDT, 160; BTP, 162; S II, 168; PAX, 188; SPE, 195; PKP I, 195; S I, 198; SN, 199. The KA’s posted only one score, an 83.