Page Ten

GLEE CLUB PERFORMANCE. Friday, October 15 8:05 p.m. Movie: "Plaza Suite" Morrison Room
Saturday, October 16 8:05 p.m. Movie: "Plaza Suite" Morrison Room
Tuesday, October 19 10 a.m. Piedmont Visiting Scholar: John Smith Perkins Auditorium
3 p.m. Soccer: Belmont Abbey Here
8 p.m. Fine Film: "Rules of the Game" Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Student Senate Meeting Blue Room
Wednesday, October 20 7 p.m. Film: "Hamlet" Love Auditorium
Thursday, October 21 All day Trustee Meetings Perkins Auditorium
3:15 p.m. Liberty Presentation Love Auditorium
Friday, October 22 All day Trustee Meetings Perkins Auditorium
3 p.m. Soccer: Guilford Here
8 p.m. Concert: Paul Winter Love Auditorium
10:15 p.m. Movie: "Love Story" Morrison Room
Saturday, October 23 2 p.m. Football: Wofford Here
8 p.m. Concert: Flying Burrito Bros. Love Auditorium
10:15 p.m. Movie: "Love Story" Morrison Room
Sunday, October 24 12:30 a.m. Concert: Uncle Walt's Band Morrison Room

Nixon’s Plan Examined
By ALEC HOON
Asst. Managing Editor

Dr. Martin Bronfenbrenner, an American Economics lecturer, spoke in the Morrison Room on the subject of the 1969-1970 Nixon economic game plan, terming it “not such an awful plan,” on October 15.

“Nixon was trying to check inflation by reducing the growth rate of the money supply. The unfortunate side effects were that the interest rate went up, as did the unemployment,” he said. “Unfortunately, it was attempted under bad circumstances. The full idea behind the plan was never explained to the public,” Bronfenbrenner added.

Addressing the subject of the American economy as it exists today, Bronfenbrenner stated that, “the economy would be better if more firms were allowed to fail when they get in trouble.” He pointed to the Penn Central Railroad and the Lockheed Corporation as examples of two firms the administration had helped financially to prevent bankruptcy. “After all, business is based on the premise of taking a risk,” he said. “The new owners might take a hard line towards the unions. The unions in turn, realizing the possibility that the company might fail, would make more modest demands,” he noted.

Spaghetti Success Feeds New Plans
By DAVID ARANT
Staff Writer

Due to the success of last Saturday's spaghetti supper, the cafeteria plans to serve a meal every Saturday night. The spaghetti supper was eaten by 130 persons, and this Saturday a fish-and-chips supper will be served.

Students have complained about the meal ticket which allows them 20 meals a week, but students point out that they miss several breakfasts and weekend meals when they leave campus. Many would like other students to be able to eat in their place.

Manager of the cafeteria Ron Scott said, “The rate of board is based on the average participation of the students.” This participation is determined from past averages, and since the average student does not eat 20 meals a week, he only pays for this average number of meals. “If we were to charge for 20 meals, the board would be higher,” said Scott. The advantage to the student is that he can claim 20 meals a week without actually paying for that many. The $1.25 price limit on meals from the snack bar line has been eliminated, and unlimited seconds will be allowed.

Clodfelter, Colleagues Call For Reform In Voting Laws
By ALEC HOON
Asst. Managing Editor

Five student body presidents, including SGA President Danny Clodfelter, issued a joint statement at a press conference in Charlotte Thursday, appealing to North Carolina Governor Bob Scott and to the State legislature to change two voting provisions for the upcoming May presidential primary. The two provisions in question...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

are that the primary will be held on Tuesday instead of on Saturday as has been done in the past, and that voters are unable to vote by absentee ballot. In the press conference statement, the presidents announced that “As student body presidents of the colleges and universities of Mecklenburg County and in conjunction with groups of students and other concerned citizens across the state, we would call upon the General Assembly to move the primary date back to the first Saturday in May and to reform the structures of absentee balloting, and upon the Governor to support the scheduling of these items on the agenda of the coming special session of the legislature.”

The presidents had hoped to meet with Scott when he was in Charlotte on Friday to greet President Nixon, but Scott’s office announced that they would be unable to see him because he would be hemmed in by Nixon's security. On Wednesday, Scott, who was in Charlotte, turned down a petition by local Democratic party regulars who are working in conjunction with the five presidents, to change the two voting provisions, saying that the issues had been “thoroughly discussed” by the legislature, according to The Charlotte Observer.

Thursday's Observer reported, however, that both North Carolina Lieutenant Governor Pat Taylor, who presides over the state Senate, and Phil Godwin, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, expressed their approval for moving the primary back to Saturday. Godwin said, “I never did see the reason for changing from Saturday in the first place.” Concern was expressed by Godwin that the special session was not the best time to consider the change because the session was supposed to deal solely with the restructuring of higher education and that “we are going to be carried away with a full-blown session.”

The primary day was changed to Tuesday in the first place due to a study by the State Election Board showing that the traditional Saturday turnout was substandard. What they failed to consider in analyzing the statistic was that the primary was on the fourth Saturday in May, which is the Memorial Day weekend. This may have been one reason for the small turnouts.

Being the first North Carolina Presidential primary, the importance of allowing all registered voters to express their feelings is increased. The principal reason that the presidents feel that Saturday would be a better day is that it would enable students to vote without cutting classes, and transportation workers and salesmen who are often gone on weekdays, to vote. As it now stands, one cannot vote by absentee ballot in a primary in North Carolina. The presidents in their statements felt that this presents “unnecessary obstacles to effective participation of sizable groups of the population in the primaries. Pleased to accept this new responsibility of citizenship, we request that we be given the chance to exercise it in practice as well as in theory,” the joint statement concluded.

---

Whatever you want, we've got

ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Pea Coats—Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N. C. 170 N. Main

---

DEAL'S RESTAURANT AND GRILL
663-4141
4 Miles North of Davidson
Steaks — Seafood — Plate Lunches
Sandwiches
6 a.m. ’til Midnight
Closed Monday

---

The OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY

---

The issues had been “thoroughly discussed” by the legislature, according to The Charlotte Observer. Thursday's Observer reported, however, that both North Carolina Lieutenant Governor Pat Taylor, who presides over the state Senate, and Phil Godwin, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, expressed their approval for moving the primary back to Saturday. Godwin said, “I never did see the reason for changing from Saturday in the first place.” Concern was expressed by Godwin that the special session was not the best time to consider the change because the session was supposed to deal solely with the restructuring of higher education and that “we are going to be carried away with a full-blown session.”

The primary day was changed to Tuesday in the first place due to a study by the State Election Board showing that the traditional Saturday turnout was substandard. What they failed to consider in analyzing the statistic was that the primary was on the fourth Saturday in May, which is the Memorial Day weekend. This may have been one reason for the small turnouts.

Being the first North Carolina Presidential primary, the importance of allowing all registered voters to express their feelings is increased. The principal reason that the presidents feel that Saturday would be a better day is that it would enable students to vote without cutting classes, and transportation workers and salesmen who are often gone on weekdays, to vote. As it now stands, one cannot vote by absentee ballot in a primary in North Carolina. The presidents in their statements felt that this presents “unnecessary obstacles to effective participation of sizable groups of the population in the primaries. Pleased to accept this new responsibility of citizenship, we request that we be given the chance to exercise it in practice as well as in theory,” the joint statement concluded.

---

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

---

We have a great selection of Jeans
Jeans Shirts
Boots and other campus clothes
Use your automatic charge account
Clothing For The Pace Setter
John Mack & Son
Mooresville—only 6 miles North