Che Bauidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
May 21, 1971

Modest Optimism

After all the shouting, the cries of student anguish, the suspicions and the accusations, it is perhaps fitting to end
this first half of our editorial year with several positive reflections concerning Davidson College. In an analysis found elsewhere in
this issue, there is displayed a modest spirit of optimism for Davidson, a feeling of hope and goodwill that is
all too often scorned by students. Though it may seem out of editorial character, we share this same spirit.

We recognize that Davidson has potential, perhaps the greatest potential of any educational institution in the South. It is on
this basic awareness that we base our optimism and our hope for Davidson. We also realize that Davidson is presently
far from reaching its potential. It is this very obvious fact of life at Davidson that hurts so much, that
drives students to cynicism and apathy and editors to their typewriters. If Davidson had little or nothing to offer, the
complaints which permeate student meetings and discussions and the criticisms which fill these pages would be unjustified. Such is not
the case, however, for this college does have a great deal going for it, including a top-flight faculty, a promising
student body, and some excellent facilities, offering Davidson the opportunity for an outstanding educational experience.

The blame for this failure and refusal to strive for the best at Davidson belongs to everyone here. The administration,
in its emphasis on the business aspect of the college, has shown less than sincere concern for the present Davidson,
its students. The faculty has become in many cases as apathetic as the students and has failed to present a
stimulating educational program. The students, above all, have allowed themselves the luxury of laziness and apathy and cynicism, and have
on the whole buried any creative impulses or stimuli behind their meaningless critical clinches. In short, the present condition at
Davidson is not the fault of any one of us, but of all of us.

It is significant, and maybe even promising, that the college’s alumni will be on campus this weekend. It may be
the beginning of a new concern here for a true learning community, one honestly dedicated to the goal of growth
and education and to the dialogue of life. It is our sincere hope that this is so, for this is
what Davidson should be—and can be—all about.

Sons And Daughters

Davidson College will not tolerate exclusivism on its campus. Unless... The trustees have begun to draw some very fine lines
in recent decisions. The decision to allow faculty daughters to attend Davidson for degrees is one example. If Davidson does
not have the academic programs to offer a good education to coeds, what does it have to offer to faculty
daughters? Are faculty daughters more qualified than other peoples’ daughters? Would it follow that faculty sons are more qualified to
attend than other peoples’ sons? We can only hope that the trustees will act soon and definitely, whichever way they
decide, after they evaluate the results of their cautious experimentation in coeducation.

In Numerical Order

In the administration’s eternal quest for efficiency they might borrow a page from the federal government’s book under the chapter
heading of numbers. We probably have enough numbers floating around in our wallets, from driver’s licenses to draft cards to
credit cards. Davidson has not spared the set of numbers either with student numbers, laundry numbers and the ephemeral “alpha
number” so vital to maintaining our educational system. It seems that the social security number of each student, a gift
of the government, could replace the numbers the college doles out. The social security number could serve to replace the
several different numbers and ensure each student a singularly unique digit.

CECIL BURNEY

Davidson Deserves More Than Football Team

B.O.

Next year, the alumni of this college and the college itself will purchase a quarter of a million dollars worth
of sweat. That is the price of the football program. Very few students realize that they have to pay a
great deal to keep football here. The Wildcat Club, managed by ex-football player Steve Heckard, was supposed to raise money
to offset the expense of the quarter million dollar budget this year. His efforts failed. The trustees had to pay
$80,000 this year to bail out the team, and at the same time, they raised tuition to pay that expense.
But next year, the college will still pay $150,000 of the football expense out of general college funds. If you
do simple arithmetic, you'll see that each student will be charged about $75 to pay for it. If you believe
what they say, students pay about half of the costs of their Davidson education. If the college budgets $150,000 for
football, then $75,000 is the half students pay, or $75 per student. I wonder if every student here wants that
much of his money to go to football. There are many reasons for being upset with thefoot- ball team other
than the fact that it loses most of its games. One is that we cannot provide coeducation at the school
because we haven't got enough money. When football team members need to use a car for some special reason, they
have access to cars operated by the athletic department. H. Edmunds White is so interested in football that he decided
that football players can use practice time as their work-study job time. This is probably a violation of Federal laws
dealing with work-study money, but Mr. White, like everybody else, obviously doesn’t mind breaking a law for his pet in-

LETTER

terest in football. (I wish he would develop pet interests in minority group students, artists, South Asia specialists, and people
from other parts of the country!). Despite the claim by the Admissions Department that all football students meet all academic
requirements, we know that this is not the case. The football team members certainly have a large staff of coaches
and trainers at their disposal. Yet the college has not money to hire Meredith Hall for his counseling work with
students. Overall, the academic interests of this institution are frequently undermined by this football program. Coach Dave Fagg has referred
to this place as an ‘intellectual joint,’ which sounds vaguely similar to Lefty Driesell's famous comment, ‘What’s all this academic
B. S. anyway?’ Coach Fagg is also quite oblique concerning hair length for football players, and he is known to
utter rather antiquated ideas about football being just like life is, and about how you have to be a big
jock to be a man. This Saturday at 3 p.m. the football department has arranged a varsity-alumni game. The purpose
of this is obviously not to give alumni a chance to play, but to give them a chance to give
money for football. I encourage alumni to give no money whatsoever to football, and I encourage them to realize, as
Professor William Arrowsmith recently wrote about the alumni of the University of Texas, that some alumni would be more concerned
if the football team had a losing season than if the university lost one hundred of its faculty members. Alumni
should give money for coeducation and the development of educational programs on campus, and not for football. It is merely
my contention that the strength of an institution should be founded upon something more substantial than B. O.

Students Should Protest ROTC Vandals’ Action

To the Editor:

Protest vandalism. Before the smoke bomb incident is officially closed, I think two points should be mentioned which have been
overlooked. First, what might seem an inexpensive prank was, in fact, not harmless and inexpensive. The walls had to be
repainted and the building generally cleaned, all of which cost at least $1000. Secondly and more important, the situation created
by the smoke bomb was potentially very dangerous. Often when there is a fire, people panic, seem to threaten rushing
downstairs and out the building. Those who fall are trampled. Fortunately, this did not occur, but it could have. Let
me add a note here because events occurred since the above paragraphs were written. This past week someone smeared paint
all over the outside of the ROTC building door. Also, cars were splattered with black paint. This sort of action
is reprehensible; it is disgusting and sick. I can only hope that Davidson students will rise up against this sort
of thing.

Bill Ralston ‘74
Davidson College

Subsidized Football Drains

To the Editor:

Last year the Board of Trustees decided that funds for football scholarships should be raised through the Wildcat Club. Coming
off its best season ever in 1969-70, the football program has not received the hoped-for response from alumni. In the
face of an assortment of excuses, the college has generously offered to cover the deficit of about $80,000. (Approximately half
of this figure represents need, based on the average financial aid for the entire student body.) It seems that in
these days of tight money, Davidson is willing to make great sacrifices to prop up subsidized football while other areas
suffer, for example, the clinical psychologist whose contract was not renewed, and the delay in making co-education a reality. Already
45 football players, receiving an average scholarship of $1344.00, have been signed for next year’s freshman class. Defenders of the
program contend that the abundance of athletes in each class makes for a well-rounded student body. But in an all-male,
predominantly jock school, would not co-education round out the student body somewhat more fully? Has the college ever considered a
well-organized, highly subsidized recruiting effort aimed at signing 45 black students? Without subsidized football would Davidson really become a flabby
collection of eggheads? We feel that the expense of subsidized football ($169,910 annually for scholarships, in addition to coaches’ salaries,
equipment and facilities, recruiting expenses and operating costs) is too great, regardless of the source of the funds.

Patrick Reed ‘71
Lanny Ackiss ‘72
Jim Drinkard ‘73
Jim Alexander ’74
Davidson College
