Sinking “Woodstock Two” ‘4 Damn Good Album’ By STEVE SUFLAS Staff Writer

“Woodstock Two" is an album with problems. First, it will be immediately compared to the first ‘‘Woodstock" album, which is
probably unfair. ‘‘Woodstock” was not a motion picture soundtrack; it was a musical documentary, independent of the film, masterfully produced
and edited; in short, a unity. ‘Woodstock Two” is merely an extension of the first album. If someone were to
combine the two, they would have a fantastic thing, but “Woodstock Two" lacks the unity and direction of the first
album.

The second problem that the album has is that the best material was taken for the first album. For example,
side one of ‘‘Woodstock Two” is entirely Jimi Hendrix. The three cuts with their stoned raps in between are excellent.
However, they cannot compare to his ‘‘Star-Spangled Banner/Purple Haze," since that piece contains some of the greatest guitar work ever
laid down anywhere.

The third problem of the album is that it is a bold-faced rip-off. Cotillion is capitalizing on the magic of
the event, the fine flick, and the excellent first album to sell an overpriced inferior product. You then are very
justified in asking why you should pay your good money to try and bring back a dream that was beaten
to death at the Altamont Speedway. I have only one response and that is in spite of these great obstacles,
“Woodstock Two" is still a damn good album. The Hendrix cuts make his death much more painful because they make
you realize his stature as a musician. The Airplane cuts are of their usual quality, tremendous. The Butterfield Blues Band
cut is better than their bummer cut on the first album. Joan Baez is nice. Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young
steal the album with “Guinnevere,” “4 + 20,” and “Marakesh Express.” There are the missed cues and flat notes from
their performance on the first album, leaving excellent vocal performances and beautiful harmonies. They serve to make you that much
more impatient for their new live album which is due out any day.

Melanie finishes up the third side with two songs that serve to sum up the whole occasion: “My Beautiful People”
and “The Birthday of the Sun” and she leaves you with a smile. The fourth side is probably the best
one on the record because it comes closest to having a purpose. It starts out with two killer cuts from
Mountain and closes out with “Woodstock Boogie” by Canned Heat. The side serves to show the great “Battle of the
Bands,” with each band trying to outdo the next, and the crowd cheering them on to what was some of
the best performances of their lives. Thus, Canned Heat, who can usually be counted on for a heavy-handed and dull
performance, respond with a fantastic 13-minute Boogie, followed by a thunderous ovation. Fantastic!

Listen to “Woodstock Two.” Block everything else out of your mind. Let it stand on its own. Play it on
a warm spring afternoon. You will be surprised to discover that it is a damn good concert.

LETTERS The Davidsonian April 9, 1971 Page Five

YMCA Cabinet Raps Site; Rolland Snorts, Paws Earth

To the Editor:

Since the YMCA is an organization greatly involved in and concerned with town affairs, the YMCA Cabinet feels that it
is necessary that a stand be taken on the proposed off-campus fraternity court proposed for the ballpark on Griffith Street.
Our opposition to this proposal has nothing to do with fraternities themselves, only with the site that has been selected.
At a time when recreational facilities in Davidson need to be expanded, it would be a mistake to do away
with an area vital to summer recreation.

The residents of that particular area in town are concerned that the houses would be an open invitation to trouble
as they would attract the youth of the neighborhood, who would, more than likely, be unwelcome. Also, they are concerned
that services at the two churches on adjacent property would be disturbed by a large number of students being nearby.
The Cabinet suggests that GroschExhibit Resembles Crawling Into Flower Bed

A REVIEW By CATHY ROSS Staff Writer

Walking into Laura Stowe Grosch’s exhibit in the Gallery is a good feeling, sort of like crawling into someone's flower
bed with a hundred legs and magnifying glasses for eyeballs. The collection includes large acrylic canvasses of irises and daffodils
and the "Wisteria Beauty"—sort of a laughing view of what a lazy woman could content herself with. In contrast, Miss
Grosch energetically mixes free and interesting shapes with bright or pure colors. Most of the large canvasses give strong depth
sensations; others, especially "Laura Grosch’s paintings in the lemon grey and white daffodil series," float. Usually successful, some of the
flowers bobble and are almost submerged in a near monotony of too many shapes.

Miss Grosch’s smaller studies are interesting for the movement of line creating irregular shapes, foreshadowing what she has done with
colors on her huge canvasses. The ink studies for two of her building paintings: "Wisteria Beauty Shop" and the "Davidson
Railroad Station" are delightful and more exciting than the paintings themselves, which would really serve best as background against which
Miss Grosch could plant her flowers.

One must respect Laura Grosch for her abandon in choosing a proverbial subject and in her mode of executing it.
With “red-rags and pink flags,” yellow blots and brightness, she gives us a Gauguin type fresh look at old obvious
beauty. The bug's eye view Miss Grosch selects may insult the overly subjective observer, but it is recommended you ignore
the inclination and groove on the happy bouncing stuff.

The exhibit will be on display in the galleries until the annual student show in May, which will feature not
only paintings and sculpture but a student film showing as well. (Staff Photo by Doty)

Laura Grosch’s paintings are on exhibit in the Stowe Art Galleries.

If the fraternities want to build a new court off-campus, they should choose a better site. The location on Griffith
Street has the potential to be a source of racial tension and a danger to already poor town-gown relationships.

YMCA Cabinet Davidson College

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that
week. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.

To the Editor:

In compliance with the tradition of ‘Letters to the Editor’ I intend to snort and paw the earth. I am
no weirdo. But let me not be so crass as to limit myself to a single item as others have
done. For I have “rejected the rest of my former pseudo-morality and resolved to tell all” (Mrozek, Slawomir; ‘Charlie’; Grove
Press, 1967). Hence, forward comrades into the lament!

Last week Shaw Smith once again demonstrated that he is too big for Davidson. For what lowly student could resist
the personal persuasion worked by the smiling director of placement on the aged and the very young. But riding a
board with no veto power is dangerous, Shaw. This time you almost fell off. Next time it may take more
than magic.

My tuition will rise next year partially to ‘maintain’ faculty salaries. This seems to be vaguely related to the sharp
pain developing in my left side. For this pain, one person has prescribed exercise and a low-fat diet. Another told
me that a little nitroglycerin wouldn't hurt. But I am sure that, were I the proud possessor of the salary
of C. David Cornell, V.P. of F. & D., I wouldn't eat in the cafeteria at all.

Theatre is dead at Davidson. He was killed by the famed Ma & Ib&a$ gang in conspiracy with the feared
Student Apathy and a little-known gangster known as Enrichment of the Lives of Students, MEMBER OF THE UNION BOARD, MEMBER
OF THE SGA, MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.

Calley convicted of scapegoatism. Charlotte is the only city with a rising murder rate. Heroin on the rise among servicemen.
Tomorrow fair to partly cloudy unless Earth is by then in terminal stages of decay.

Goodnight Charles. Goodnight Anne. And goodnight for M.B.E. News.

Bill Rolland ‘73 Davidson College
