The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR FEBRUARY 5, 1971

New Perspectives

This is the first issue of the new editorial “we.” With any new editorship, there is naturally a new editorial
policy, new perspectives and ideas, new emphases and concerns. We are no different. While we have only praise for our
immediate predecessor, we do not plan to continue editing and producing THE DAVIDSONIAN without some changes in direction and purpose.
A college campus needs a dynamic newspaper, capable and flexible enough to respond to changing needs. For the past year,
THE DAVIDSONIAN has served Davidson College well, and it is our goal to continue to function well in the role
of the campus newspaper.

There have been moments in the past when the contributions of THE DAVIDSONIAN have been empty. At such times, the
newspaper has lost sight of its purpose and has “copped-out” on its responsibilities to the college and its students. And
there have been moments when the student newspaper has been ignored and rejected because it has attempted to maintain its
journalistic integrity in the face of irrationality and selfish desires. In both cases, the real loser has been education at
Davidson.

In the end, the newspaper’s foremost priority should be the improvement of the educational environment at Davidson. Education, of course,
encompasses much more than the mere classroom experience. It includes all of the learning encounters and activities that the student
undertakes. Thus, it is our goal to support whatever elements of the “Davidson experience” seem to us to be beneficial
to the educational process of the college and to criticize any facet of Davidson which we deem detrimental to true
learning.

In short, we wish to be an active force in the improvement of education at Davidson College. And we will
do everything in our editorial and journalistic power to accomplish this end.

No Vote Of Confidence

Davidson students ought to be able to expect more effective action by their student government than they were given in
the recent and continuing SGA elections. The elections board, whether suffering from laziness, ineptitude, or a combination of both, should
be censured for its failure to provide the students with a secure elections procedure.

First, the elections board did not properly ensure the integrity of the run-off elections for SGA vice president. Although it
is their choice whether or not to keep records of students voting in such races, the board’s refusal to keep
records makes it responsible for the doubts now being cast about the validity of the results.

Second, the board failed to keep secure the rolls of the candidates who filed for election to the senate. These
files were left for hours lying loose in the halls of Duke dorm with no provision to ensure that they
were left alone. The election board has blamed the loss of these files on “shithead” thieves (whatever they are), but
few students are convinced that carelessness was not the true cause of the mishap.

Finally, the board has failed to protect the integrity of its powers from encroachment by the outgoing SGA president. Coble,
now in a lame duck capacity, had claimed that he would not hold another vote in the disputed runoff elections
unless provided with certain specific proof of irregularities. To be sure, such proof should be a prerequisite for renewing vote
taking, but in actuality, the decision about such matters rests with the elections board and the senate. We feel the
senate properly and wisely exercised its power by calling for new elections.

In short, the elections board did not provide the students with the quality of service they have a right to
expect. We would like to urge the new administration chosen to see that such inefficiency is immediately extirpated from its
midst.

DICK ANDERSON

‘Student Power’ Can Come Through Student Sacrifice

“Student Power” is two words that greatly frighten many people both within and without the academic community. Usually, hearing those
words stimulates a mental picture of long-haired rock throwers assaulting a line of policemen, of “liberating” dean's offices, and of
braless coeds taunting the pigs. But all of these phenomena, although they have been associated with student power in the
sixties, in fact represent the frustration rather than the expression of true student power.

Columbia University’s closure last year is a good example of this. There, administrators simply ignored the students’ demands, legitimate or
not, until the students went beyond student power to exercise what might be called “mob power” — the ability of
any group of sufficiently angry persons to express themselves through mass violence. There is no quality about mass violence that
is peculiar to its use by students. It only occurs more frequently in student life because students are among the
groups most often denied expression through their legitimate channel, student power.

This channel is usually not a student government organization. Here at Davidson, for instance, the past several SGA presidents have
possessed some real power (defining that term in its usual sense, as the ability to bring other persons to dowhat
the exerciser of power wants them to, in its weaker manifestations (often called "influence"). But the power that Ran Coble
has wielded, or that which Danny Clodfelter will wield, should not be confused with student power. Rather it is what
Max Weber called "charismatic authority," the power which accrues to a man because of the force of his personality. It
is true that in their slight power is an admixture of institutional authority, since Davidson's true institutional authorities (for those
of you who haven't figured it out yet, the trustees, administration, and faculty) permit the SGA to exercise some minor
portion of their institutional power. This power is, however, by no means inherent in the office. Instead, it is a
free gift which can be revoked and probably would have been, if Cecil Burney had been elected in Clodfelter’s place.
That the SGA president has only charismatic authority is shown by the fact that other students hold as much or
more power without having been elected to anything; Jimmy Trussell is a good example. (Admittedly such power has characterized the
SGA presidency in the past few years, but this is solely due to the Davidson condition that it has become
necessary to be charismatic to win that office. That condition is of late origin, for it has existed only since
the term of Tom Earnhardt in 1967-68. It does not necessarily apply to any other campus offices, where other considerations
or none at all may apply. If an uncharismatic individual ever becomes president (on the basis of the fraternity issue,
or some other overriding concern), this condition will no longer hold.

The above constitutes several negative definitions of student power. But if the thing actually exists, it must have positive qualities.
One positive student power is that the things it affects must be relevant to being of the students. Vietnam, for
instance, is only slightly relevant to students, in that students are cadet members of the national leadership elite. But that
is only a minor part of being a student, and many are at best only marginally involved. What is extremely
relevant to all students is their school. This is the true arena for the exercise of student power, and at
all schools, it has always existed. Only the students’ failure to recognize it has prevented its use in the past.
Another positive quality is that student power belongs not to individuals but to the entire student population. As a result,
it can be exercised only in the mass. Elected individuals cannot exercise student power unless they are recognized by all
to embody it through the formality of their election (and in the present circumstances it is difficult to conceive of
any Davidson faculty or administrators being able to treat elected students as embodying student power. The tradition of solely charismatic
influence, mixed with the free gift, is too long and too general). For instance, do you want to end the
grading system by means of student power? Grades are certainly relevant to students. Get two hundred hardcore opponents of the
grading system, and if the faculty is unwilling to recognize their power to change the system, then let them flunk.
Let them miss all reviews and use campus communications to let the faculty know why they are missing. And the
larger the number of students involved, the greater is the effect. Eventually, grades will be irrelevant, even if they are
not immediately abolished. Obviously, this method involves sacrifice. But so does all use of power that is unrecognized by other
holders. The trick is to achieve that recognition; then it is possible to institutionalize the power, in this country usually
by elections. Until the power is recognized, though, all the elections to any post are meaningless.

O'Toole Hits Scholars

DAVID HANIG
Copy Editor

"Here I am today, stoop-shouldered and weary, with the nasty burden of Wisdom on my back." In this manner, the
anonymous author of "Confessions of an American Scholar," writing under the pen name of Simon O'Toole, opens his account of
his falling-out with the U.S. educational establishment. O'Toole is, according to his publisher, "a well-known scholar in his field, which
he had described as a small pasture about eight feet by twelve." In his account, O'Toole relates events from his
long experience in higher education in order to show that colleges do not educate. O'Toole has gone through all the
necessary requirements to achieve the rank of "American Scholar." As his publisher declares, "the number of his publications has made
many of his colleagues nervous." O'Toole is extremely critical of the American university professor. "Somewhere there must be an American
Scholar who actually wanted to be an American Scholar." But, as O'Toole continues wryly, "did he have a genuine, adolescent
longing to write footnotes?" O'Toole is especially critical of the Scholar’s own estimation of the worth of his field. "How
proud we were whenever a student switched his major from physics to English. We had saved him for Humanity." In
conclusion, O'Toole states that American education leads to ignorance because all anybody learns is footnoting, not substance.
