Page Two October 29, 1971 The Davidsonian

SGA States Policy On Appropriations For Organizations
By TOM BRUCE
Staff Writer

An unusually short SGA Senate meeting on Tuesday served to clarify senate policy on appropriating funds for various groups that petition the Senate. An amendment proposed by junior senator Bill Meier was passed to the effect that no funds from the student government treasury shall be dispensed to any organization until the group has made "every reasonable effort" to secure the funds from other relevant sources. Meier indicated that this was to prevent groups from approaching the Senate for money every time a project is suggested. The amendment also provided that Senate committees need not poll other sources for appropriations, since this money is already provided in the yearly senate budget.

After approving the Young Socialist for Freedom request for SGA chartering, the senate set dates for upcoming committee reports on the future of the Union, subsidized athletics, and constitutional revision. Senior Cecil Burney suggested that a "library design task-force" be assembled immediately to propose alternatives to the library plans recently submitted to the Trustees. Burney stated that the committee might include a host of faculty members who were opposed to the designs.

Student body-president Danny Clodfelter announced that he will submit a request for membership dues in the National Student Association (NSA), a move that was endorsed by the student body in a referendum on Tuesday. Debate on the request will begin next Tuesday at the senate meeting.

Senior Class President Bill Lear apologized to the assembled senators for the fact that Tuesday's election results, regarding new voting representatives in the Senate from Grey House and off-campus, were in doubt. He explained that the new senate seats should have been considered separately on the ballot, instead of collectively as they appeared. He stated that a Thursday election would be held to clear up the dispute.

A REVIEW KISS ME KATE
(Staff photo by Campbell)
Jack Hartman tames Jennet Robinson in "The Taming of the Shrew."

Sexist "Taming Of The Shrew" Ends By Reaffirming Male’s Dominance
By RUSS MERRITT and BOBBY ALLEN

That "The Taming of the Shrew" is an excellent piece of drama has been evidenced in playhouses throughout the Western world. That it is an acceptable play for the Davidson campus, however, is another question. Such is the immediate response to the college drama department’s fall production of Shakespeare's classic battle of the sexes which ends with a moralistic reaffirmation of male dominance. Of course, it can be pointed out that such attitudes were an essential part of the Elizabethan society for which Shakespeare wrote, but the male domination of seventeenth century England hardly needs reinforcing in twentieth century America, and particularly Davidson. It is a part of Shakespeare’s genius, however, that one can overlook the didacticism of the play and appreciate its ribald, rollicking humor. And the Davidson production maintains this high level of entertainment. In fact, it’s a jolly good time for any audience.

The Davidsonian
Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
CECIL BURNEY
TODD HOBBIE
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
DAVID HANIG

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Photography Editor:
JOHN DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON
ALEC HOON

Copy Editors:
BOBBIE BLACKWOOD
JAMES HANNA

Advertising Manager:
WHIT WHITWORTH

Assistant Copy Editor:
BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY

Ass't Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER
CHARLIE TERRELL
HOWARD BOYD

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
TERRY HIRST
STEVE BALCUM

Circulation Managers:
STEVE SHEPHERD
GREG MITCHELL

Photographers:
BILL BARNES
FRANK ERWIN
PAUL HORWITZ
TOM CAMPBELL

Contributors this week:
Thomas Ainsworth, John Kepchar, Scott McMichael, Bill Morris, Thom Nicholl and Mike Tanner.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.Enjoyment of the play, however, is not accomplished without encountering some obstacles, not the least of which is the theatre itself. Hodson Hall, being built originally for musical rather than dramatic performances, tends to emphasize the separation of stage and audience, actor and spectator. Peter Lutkin’s tiered setting, while providing a suitable platform for the action of the play, tended also to thrust the action even further from the audience. The setting furthermore made a necessary physical sense of intimacy impossible, hampering the full impact of Shakespeare’s rich dialogue. The props, too, at times served more as hindrances than as aids to the tale. Stick horses in the famous “sun and moon” scene, unnecessary signs identifying various parts of the stage as residences, and other near-farcical props were detracting attempts at unnecessary realism in an otherwise abstract setting. In terms of entertainment, however, such mechanical problems were overshadowed by the vitality of the production and the vibrant spirit of the cast. Rupert Barber, the director, handled the cast well and his firm hand was obvious as the actors moved about the stage with ease. He also chose wisely in playing to the hilt the least visual humor of the play, as seen particularly in the first encounter between Kate, the shrew (or bitch), and Petruchio, her suitor. Jack Hartman’s Petruchio was an impressive representation of Shakespeare’s swaggering swashbuckler, and for a few except moments of un-staging, his acting wore well. Jennet Robinson, in the role of Kate, was an admirable foil to Hartman’s arrogant dominance. Her bitchiness was quite believable, as was her strength of character. One can find fault only in the role interpretation apparently inflicted on her by Barber. The highlight of the play is the surprisingly adroit performances of actors in supporting roles. Newcomers Robert Long and Graham Draughon were delightful in their portrayals of Grumio and Biondello, respectively. Terry Hirst and Bob Wright, both well-known to the Davidson public for previous excellence in dramatic productions, served well as Lucentio and Baptista. Bobby Blackwood, another exchange student, was an effective flirt as Bianca, while Jack Scott and Lee Fowlkes, also Davidson stage veterans, handled the roles of Hortensio and Gremio successfully. The play will be held tonight at 8:15, and a matinee will be held at 2:30. There will also be another showing tomorrow night at 8:30. Attend, for you'll have a good time. We did.

Comprehensive Fee Discussion Held
By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

On Monday, a meeting of administrators and students was held to discuss the issues regarding the comprehensive fee which will go into effect the coming school year. It was chaired by Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan and Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell. Arguing against aspects of the comprehensive fee were student senators. The administration remains obstinate in its belief that a board fee should be part of the comprehensive fee. The Student Senate has voted 15-3-1 against the inclusion of the board fee, and the three senators who opposed this measure did so because they were opposed to the concept of a comprehensive fee entirely. The students presented philosophical and practical arguments against the inclusion of the board fee in the comprehensive fee, but this made no great effect on the administrators present. The College is claiming that it is having volume problems with the food service, and a compulsory board charge would rectify this situation. The other argument the administration is using to sell the idea of a mandatory board bill is that it is inherent in the concept of a residential college such as Davidson that students should eat on campus. The student senators at the meeting also argued that no funds to student organizations should be cut during the first year of operation of the comprehensive fee. (See COMPREHENSIVE, p. 8)