Terriers’ Lightning Strikes Wildcats

AN ANALYSIS

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

Don't tell the Davidson Wildcats that lightning never strikes twice!

In 1969, Wofford squeaked by the Wildcats 28-27 thanks to an extra point booted by Randy Bringman with 29 seconds
to play.

Last Saturday, Bringman came back to haunt the ‘Cats again, as he connected on a 46-yard field goal with 2:52
left in the game to give the Terriers a thrilling 23-22 victory.

The loss was quite a jolt to the frustrated ‘Cats, who turned in their best overall effort of the season.

A scoreless first quarter established several patterns for the remainder of the game.

The ‘Cat defense came out hitting and never let up, harassing Terrier quarterback Carter Davis and containing runner Cliff Boyd.

The offense relied heavily on slashing runs by Johnny Ribet and Bill Bracken, who showed signs of regaining his sophomore
form.

The interception jinx caught up with the ‘Cats in the second period, as Rick Kemmerlin was hit on a rollout
play and his deflected pass fell into the arms of defensive end Henry Medlock.

Medlock lumbered 55 yards to paydirt, and the 'Cats found themselves in the familiar position of having to play catch-up
football.

The offense was unable to get into the end zone, so they called on the defense, who responded with a
safety. The Terriers added another score on a short run to take a 14-2 halftime lead.

The third quarter saw the ‘Cats come back from the dead, as they rolled to three touchdowns.

Kemmerlin, who directed the ‘Cat attack with poise and a variety of plays, scored twice on sneaks up the middle,
while Bracken blasted over from close range.

Many fingers were crossed and rabbit’s feet were rubbed as the fourth period began. Good luck charms had no effect,
however, as the Terriers took advantage of several breaks to get back in the game.

Wildcat punter Harold Wilkerson had a kick blocked and run back for a touchdown, which pulled the Terriers within two
points at 22-20.

A very questionable roughing-the-punter penalty against the ‘Cats enabled the Terriers to keep a drive moving, and when the defense
stiffened, Bringman sent the East stands into hysteria with his perfect three-pointer.

The heartbreaking defeat produced several standout players for the ‘Cats.

Defensive coaches Bob Mosleth and Alex Gettys were pleased with the play of captains Woody Montgomery and Robert Norris, ends
Jim Hardtson and Mike Sikes, tackles Bill Garrett and Jack Stultz, and linebacker Larry Spears.

* NETTERS ELECT CO-CAPTAINS

Frank Dana and David Weaver were elected co-captains of the Davidson tennis team last week.

Weaver, a junior, played second court singles and first court doubles for the netters last year.

Dana, a senior, is starting for the Wildcats for the first time this year.

The tennis team has been practicing for about two weeks.

The Davidsonian — October 7, Page Seven
