Page Two April 16, 1971

The Davidsonian

College May Order Cuts In Slater Food Service

By DOUG BROWN
Assist. Managing Editor

Due to financial problems, Davidson is considering cutting back its subsidy of the food service next year. It is estimated that the college will put 40,000 dollars into the food service this year. The Slater food service is represented on campus by Klaus G. Kleeburg, who is manager of the cafeteria.

“I have no statement,” Kleeburg said when questioned about plans for next year. He felt plans are still in the negotiation stage, and it would be improper for him to comment on them at this time.

Vice President of Finance and Development C. David Cornell, during a meeting with students concerning the finances of Davidson, said, “The food service is constantly under review. We evaluate the operation to see if the best job is being done. We are open to suggestions.”

College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. commented, “No colleges are satisfied with their food service entirely.” At this meeting, officials of the college claimed that the food service problem is not an easy one, citing the small volume and the modest facilities. It is felt that the rise in board fees from 525 to 575 dollars next year will be of some aid.

Presently, 20 meals are served per week and those with meal tickets are entitled to 20. It has been proposed that holders of meal tickets be limited to 17 meals per week. The average ticket holder eats between 14½ and 15 meals presently, and with a limit of 17 meals per week, it is estimated that a student will normally eat 13 meals per week. On average, meals cost 68 cents for ticketholders, and in the future they should cost 70 cents.

Slater has proposed an end to certain luxury items such as salads, drinks, and seconds. An end to service during holidays, when only about 30 people are served per meal, is also being considered. Special functions such as Parents’ Day will probably have to pay for themselves.

Another proposal is that students can buy a meal card which is transferable and limits them to 13 meals per week. It has also been suggested that only 15 meals per week be served—without service on the weekends. Students under the sponsorship of the SGA will be visiting other schools to study eating arrangements. Members of the Food Service Committee of the SGA have been studying brochures from other food services. Members of this committee have not ruled out switching from Slater, and members of the SGA have called for a thorough review of Davidson’s relations with Slater and ultimately a dissolution of this association.

It is expected that some type of decision about next year will be made in about two weeks. Although the SGA Food Committee can make recommendations on what action the College should take concerning Slater, the ultimate decision lies with the administration.

There is an observable amount of loneliness here, according to Dr. Meredith Hall, the college's clinical psychologist. “Students here relate on an intellectual level almost exclusively,” Hall said. “This is sad. It impedes the ability of the people to communicate feelings.”

Hall believes that the verbal ability of the Davidson student actually impedes communication except on the intellectual level. “Instead of using his verbal ability to communicate feelings, ...”

Lingle Suggests (Continued From Page 1)

...cation of the court mechanism. “The Dean of Students will be the focal point for violations. In the new structure, it would be possible for the Dean of Students to handle violations without them being taken to the courts,” he said. “It is also commonly accepted to have one hearing court and one appellate court. This system will also pro...

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
TOUCHTON ROBERT

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Contributors this week:
Howard Boyd, Charlie Terrell, Dave Wells.

Copy Editors:
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Ass't Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLII

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
ROGER MANLEY
CHARLIE RALSTON

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage.Paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

"Provide for specific sanctions and greater flexibility. You might say it is justice with simplification," Lingle emphasized. He stressed that the suggestions are just tentative ones and subject to discussion and change. "The Governance Committee will try to work out the details of a proposal and publish the results sometime in May for student and faculty discussion," said Lingle. "This committee will not recommend anything to the Board of Trustees that does not have broad student support." Lingle said he hoped that the final proposal could be brought before the board in a special meeting on June 16, so that the system would be in operation at the beginning of the 1971-72 academic year.

The Governance Committee was formed a year ago by the trustees to look at the entire system of governance and make recommendations to the board. The committee divided the area into two parts: student conduct and interrelations of governing bodies. Lingle hopes that the first area will be completed this spring. The committee will then begin work on interrelationships of the governing bodies.

The Governance Committee is composed of one member of the Board of Trustees, Phillips; one member of the administration, Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan; one faculty member, Professor of Philosophy George L. Abernethy; the President of the Student Body, Danny Clodfelter; and Committee Chairman Lingle.

"Trying to effectively amend the present court structure would be extremely difficult," said Lingle. "There are basic problems built into the whole system. From a procedural standpoint, the committee is thinking in terms of wiping the slate clean and starting from scratch," he said.

Assistant Professor of German Hansford Epes, Jr., who is a member of the Student Life Committee, said he was very encouraged by the direction the Governance Committee is moving. "The information they presented seems very realistic and seems to call for appropriate participation, especially from students," he said.

Free Beer
Saturday from 11 a.m.-6 p.m., the Union Social Council will sponsor a beer party and concert on the hill over the baseball field. Featured groups will be Mass Production, the Blue Sky Committee (which features Davidson students), Partly Cloudy, and the Southern Folk Festival. There will be about 20 kegs of free beer and soft drinks provided by the Union.

It makes for loneliness when the student gets stuck. (Staff Photo by Doty)

CAFETERIA MANAGER KLAUS KLEEBURG
The college may put the squeeze on food next year.

Clinical Psychologist Claims Students Lonely
By DAVID HANIG
Copy Editor

"Part of the problem lies with inhibitions," Hall stated. "The student—for that matter, all of us—inhibits his positive feelings more than his negative feelings. We can shoot someone the finger more easily than we can say, 'I like you.'"

"Coeducation would bring out aspects of a person that would not otherwise develop. The students here feel this lack a great deal," he declared. "Coeducation wouldn't destroy all the misconceptions and myths about the opposite sex," Hall continued. "People would still try to impress each other with how cool they are.

"Part of the problem is that some students are trying to be something instead of being themselves. They think that they have to be cool all the time. They're afraid to say that they are great at some things, kind of average at others, and just lousy at some," he said. "People are pretty frank in looking for who they are, though," Hall said.

Hall thinks that Davidson students are too cynical. "They look around, and they see that there are a lot of things wrong with people over 25. They see that there are a lot of people who are not doing what they want to do, and ask themselves, 'Do I have to be a phony like older people?' Unfortunately, that is as far as their questioning goes."

"The trouble is," Hall continued, "that it’s really too easy to criticize the older generation. Life is so damn complex that young people can’t understand all the pressures on older people and the older people wouldn't judge young people. I know it won't happen; I guess people like to see things in black and white."

Hall's contract will not be renewed next year because of the financial problems at the college.