Vol. 1 No. One The Davidsonian Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students June 1971

Board Redefines Student Conduct
By RICH WILSON

At a special meeting on June 22, the board of trustees reaffirmed the Code of Responsibility and approved the governance report on student conduct, which called for the establishment of a Student Conduct Council and a restructuring of the judiciary system.

Dealing first with the Code of Responsibility, the trustees said that the code was a sound statement of the philosophy and standards of student conduct. However, they felt the lines of authority from the trustees to persons and agencies on the campus were not clear, and that the enforcement structure was unwieldy and faulty. The trustees therefore concluded that major portions of the code should be reaffirmed, but that the parts dealing with policy-making and judiciary functions be redesigned.

Taking the first step toward redefining the entire system of college government, the board transferred the policy-making function for student conduct from the faculty to the president and to a newly-established Council on Student Conduct. This council is composed of the Dean of Students, who will serve as chairman, the Coordinator of Student Activities, eight faculty members (some selected from the four areas and others elected at large), the Student Government President and Vice President, the presidents of the four classes, and two upperclass students who are not members of the senate and who are elected at large by the student body.

The council is empowered to amend the standards set by the Code of Responsibility by a majority vote, provided the proposed amendment does not contravene trustee policy. In such a case, the college president would suspend operation of the amendment pending review by the trustees or the trustee executive committee. If the board does not act on the amendment within 30 days, the amendment will become operative.

The council will also advise the college administration on matters of policy relating to student conduct and disciplinary proceedings, and may recommend changes in the enforcement mechanism and procedure.

To simplify the judiciary structure and proceedings, the trustees made the Dean of Students the threshold for all conduct disorders. Upon receipt of a formal complaint, the dean investigates to determine whether further proceedings are warranted. If so, the dean draws up a formal statement of the charge and holds an administrative conference with the student involved. The student charged has the option of having his case decided by the Dean of Students, who would determine the sanction needed or suggest counseling. If the student prefers a hearing...

Terry Illustrates Judiciary System By Examining Hypothetical Cases

Professor Smith on Sept. 27 reports to Will Terry, dean of students, that Jack Harris is guilty of plagiarism. Professor Smith brings the student's paper as well as the other documents which indicate that the boy used information he didn’t footnote. After making an investigation of these documents, the dean determines that further proceedings are warranted. He then prepares a formal statement of the charge setting forth the nature, time, and place of the violation charged, and serves it on the person. Included is a note from the dean setting forth a date, time, and place for a conference.

“You are guilty of plagiarism,” says Terry. “This is a serious charge and I am prepared to give you a maximum sanction of suspension for one or two terms. Let me tell you that you have two alternatives: you may allow me to handle the matter, or you may go to the Hearing Committee,” Terry says. “In order for me to handle the case, though, you must admit the charge.”

Jack Harris thinks for a few minutes, and then says, “I guess I’m guilty, but I want you to handle the case.” Terry then proceeds with the conference. He asks Harris to present evidence...of mitigation or extenuation of the violation admitted. Following the presentation of the evidence, Terry must make a decision whether he should dispose of the case through counseling or through the imposition of a sanction. In this particular case, Terry doesn't feel counseling is appropriate, so he imposes a sanction of definite suspension for the remainder of the term. Terry then promptly notifies Harris of the decision and prepares a digest of the proceedings at the administrative conference. 

Upon receipt of the dean's decision, Harris feels that Terry was too hard on him. Harris writes a written notice to the secretary of the Review Board as well as to the Dean of Students and asks for an appeal. A date is set. Equipped with the dean's digest and a verbatim reproduction of the entire proceedings of the administrative conference, the Review Board hears the arguments of Harris. The Review Board then decides whether Harris is guilty and whether the sanction is appropriate. In this situation, they uphold the dean's findings and notify Harris. Since the Review Board upheld Harris’ suspension for a definite period of time, Harris has the right to appeal to the president. Upon receipt of Harris’ wish for an appeal, the president reviews all previous testimony and may hear oral arguments for Harris. The president then decides whether the sanction is appropriate. He does so and notifies Harris that he is (See Terry, Page 3).

In a college court hearing, his case would be prosecuted by an elected student solicitor and decided by a student Hearing Committee. Composed of nine seniors, six juniors, and three sophomores elected at large from the student body, the Hearing Committee has the authority to enforce one of seven sanctions: warning, censure, fine, probation, restitution, definite suspension, indefinite suspension. Whichever option the student chooses, either the dean or the Hearing Committee, he can appeal their decision to a Review Board composed of three faculty members and two senior students. The Review Board would examine the case of the student to determine if a judicial error had been made or if the sanction was not appropriate. It can either affirm the previous decisions, call for a re-hearing, dismiss the charges, or reduce (not increase) the sanctions. The student could ultimately appeal to the college president, but the president would only consider the appropriateness of the sanction in the total context of the case. Accurate records will be kept of all proceedings, and these records will be kept separate from any academic records. Where the decision is acquittal, the records will be destroyed immediately. Where the decision is suspension, they will be destroyed after 10 years, and for a lesser sanction, after five years.

The new system also provides for a codification of college regulations by the college president and his staff. These regulations will deal with general matters such as parking and the use of college facilities. Answering the question as to whether the dean can function as a counselor and a disciplinarian, the trustees allow the dean of students to disqualify himself from any judicial proceedings where (See Trustees, Page 3).

Lost Pages Cause Delay

The delay in the distribution of the 1971 Quips and Cranks was apparently caused by the loss of some page layouts through the mail, according to Tim Timmons, editor of the yearbook. "We had sent part of the layouts up to the American Yearbook Company in Maryland where the yearbook is printed, but they never received them," said Timmons. The yearbook will be mailed directly to the student body from the publishers as soon as the books are finished. "We had hoped that the company would have been able to compensate for the time, but evidently they had a very tight schedule of publications," said Timmons. "I talked to our regional representative, but he wasn't very encouraging about prospects for an early mailing. He just told me that the books would be mailed sometime during the summer," Timmons said.