UP AND AWAY

Pi Kapps Break Losing Streak, Sigs Take IMAC Lead

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

Pat Curley fired in 21 points and Jim Thompson added 14 more as the Pi Kapps thumped the Nus 68-44
and snapped a 29-game losing streak Tuesday night. The Pi Kapps led all the way to chalk up their first
court victory since 1968, despite Kent Beard’s 16 points for the Nus, now 0-7.

Elsewhere in the IMAC, the Sigs won over the SPEs 71-61 in a battle of unbeatens to take over possession
of first place in League A. Frank Clark popped in 16 points and Greg Gerdy 15 to pace the victors,
who won their sixth straight. Cannon II won thrice to jump into third place at 5-2, while the previously-unbeaten Betas
were blasted twice to fall from a tie for first to a tie for fourth with the Indies at 4-2.

Calvin Allen scored 22 points as Cannon II edged the Pi Kapps 57-56, and hit 20 in a 55-36 rout
of the SAEs. Steve Gates bombed in 22 and Allen added 13 as the freshmen belted the Betas 74-55, holding
Randy Ely to a season-low 12 points. The tough Indies handed the Betas their first loss 70-51, as Mike Mikolayunas
swished in 23 points and Harlan Day connected for 16. The Indies rapped the E’s 54-44 behind 18 points by
Mikolayunas.

The Pikas rolled merrily along, walloping the KAs 92-42 and then disposing of the Machis 76-62. Dennis Watson gunned in
28 points and Gary Scibal dropped in 16 against the KAs, who were led by Jim Crouse with 16. Mark
Affeldt poured in 25 points and John Calhoun added 16 in the win over the Machis.

The Delts polished off three foes to entrench themselves in second place at 5-1. Andy Davis collected 18 points to
lead 3 teammates into double figures as the Delts knocked off East II 62-51. Greg Sikes banged in 22 points
in a hard-fought 57-50 win over the Gamms, who were paced by Charles Parks with 14. Sikes and Davis pitched
in 17 and 12 points, respectively, as the Delts cruised past Watts-Belk 64-45. The Gamms waltzed past W-B 56-34 behind
Parks’ 16 points to up their record to 3-3 and third place.

East II clipped the Taus 72-51 and Cannon II 64-55 to stand 3-4 and take over fourth place. Larry Graham
hit 22 points in the win over the Taus, who were paced by Bob Peele's 17. Mike Harding stuffed in
23 against Cannon I, which got 16 from Larry Slagle. The Taus, Machis, and W-B all dropped two games to
fall to 2-4 and a 3-way tie for fifth.

IMAC Standings (Games thru Feb. 2)

League A
Sigs 6-0
SPE 5-1
CII 5-2
Indies 4-2
Betas 4-2
EII 3-4
SAE 2-4
PKP 1-6
Nus 0-7

League B
Pikas 6-0
Delts 5-1
Gamms 3-3
EII 3-4
ATO 2-4
SX 2-4
W-B 2-4
CI 1-5
KA 1-5

The Davidsonian, February 5, 1971, Page Seven

’Cats To Meet Vengeful ’Cocks

By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

A rough week awaits Davidson’s cagers as the Wildcats face two teams in the next five days who have revenge
on their minds. Tomorrow night the team travels to West Virginia to meet the Mountaineers, and Wednesday the ’Cats meet
South Carolina at Charlotte.

The Wildcats should be rested for their game to-Morrow night. After a tough loss to Wake Forest last Saturday night,
they went to V.M.I. Head Coach Terry Holland's squad had no trouble in running over the Keydets by a 70-39
count. “V.M.I. tried to stall a little at first,” Holland said, “and it just didn't work. Defense has been our
strong point all year, so the slow down was our kind of game. They opened it up in the second
half.” But the ‘Cats had no trouble in the second half either as they rolled up an easy win.

Things won't be that easy this week. The Mountaineers are still smarting from the earlier loss this season to the
‘Cats, in which both teams had off nights. West Virginia star Will Robinson had a particularly poor shooting night, and
Holland indicated he may be out to show Davidson guard Duncan Postma, his shadow in the January meeting, that he
can score. “They'll be playing at home this time, too,” Holland said, “and that will be to their advantage.”

Wednesday night, Davidson will return to the Charlotte Coliseum to face the Gamecocks before what should be a sellout crowd.
Holland called South Carolina “an overwhelming and awesome team.” U.S.C. is still seeking revenge for their two straight losses to
Davidson, and particularly for last year's beating at Columbia. “The key to last year's win for us,” Holland continued, “was
our rebounding. We must outrebound them this year, too, if we are to win.” In last season's upset, Bryan Adrian
provided the scoring punch, and the front line of Mike Maloy, Doug Cook, and Jerry Kroll did a superb job
on the boards. But the front line has graduated and Adrian is still having knee trouble.

Cagers Cited For Scholarship

Davidson has had four of the starting six cagers nominated for the academic All-America team. Steve Kirley, Duncan Postma, Billy
Pierce, and John Pecorak were all nominated on the basis of their academic and athletic achievements.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA GALLEY
FISH CAMP
TAPROOM
Whar-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

The Valentine, a traditional symbol of love and affection, once stung the recipient with acid-tongued barbs set to verse. “Penny
Dreadfuls,” also known as “Vinegar Valentines” or “Rudes and Crudes,” were popular from the 1840s to the early 1900s. They
originated in England and were cruel caricatures of bothersome acquaintances. In 1870, Charles Howard, an American cartoonist, designed some “Penny
Dreadfuls” printed on coarse paper and these (understandably) were usually sent anonymously. Many countries banned them as crude and obscene.
Early in the 20th century, the Chicago Post Office refused to handle 25,000 of the cards, claiming they were not
fit to be carried in the mail.

A typical quip: “'Tis all in vain, your simpering looks; you never can incline, with all your bustles, stays and
curls to find a Valentine.” One poison-pen card from the Victorian Era wasted no words: “You silly, bad, immodest flirt,”
it said, “you promenade the street — and wink with longing, wicked eye at every man you meet.”

Today Valentines are more humorous. Some carry a gentle slam — but insults really don’t belong on a greeting card.
That's why our Hallmark Valentine department is filled with the most heartwarming greetings in town. Visit us today and send
your best wishes to all the Valentines you know... or would like to know!

The Village Store
Davidson, N.C.
