Page Six

October 15, 1971

The Davidsonian

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Allen Receives Belated Praise

The following letter is written to columnist Bobby Allen concerning his September column in THE DAVIDSONIAN.

To the Editor:

The Randolph-Macon Sundial printed as an exchange article your column "What We Really Need Is a Dose of 'Men's Lib'"
in today's issue.

I laughed; I loved it. You speak the truth. Being a freshman, I've been subject to the rigors you described.
You were so apt in describing these "wonderful Virginia gentlemen."

Cross Raps Story

To the Editor:

John Kepchar's article on the Young Socialist Alliance contained a number of inaccuracies that need to be corrected.

The article said that we feel that capitalism is "too unstable a form of government." Capitalism is not a form
of government. It is a system of allocating resources and producing goods and services.

In a capitalist economy, the government is controlled by the capitalist class, regardless of whether it is formally a democracy,
an oligarchy, or a dictatorship.

"Liberalism" and "conservatism" are two wings of capitalist ideology; the difference between them is whether the instabilities of capitalism can
be solved by welfare programs or police action. We do not regard either solution as practical.

Nonetheless, if the system tolerates our right to protest against it, we will use that right.

Kepchar also says that I said that "Britain has a good system." I am not a supporter of the British
Labor Party. During Harold Wilson’s six-year premiership, no attempt was made to nationalize the steel industry.

Even when steel was nationalized during the 1945-1951 Labor government, it was a bureaucratic nationalization which gave the workers in
the mill no sense of participation in the management of the mills where they worked.

Socialism is not government control; it is workers’ control. This means direct participation by the workers in the decision-making at
the factory. Therefore, we do not regard Britain, the U.S.S.R., or mainland China as countries we would like to emulate.

In fact, the YSA considers Soviet Russia and the People's Republic of China degenerated workers’ states, which need a political
revolution. This political revolution would demand freedom of speech and thought and workers’ control of the factories.

Kepchar's article did not even mention the Alliance's support of community control of police and schools, which would give black
people and Chicanos in this country a large measure of self-determination.

The article says that the YSA is "in favor of women's free day-care centers for working mothers, legal and free
abortions on demand, and equal pay for equal work."

Several past national chairmen of the YSA have been "chairwomen."

The article says YSA favors the October 13 Moratorium but neglected to mention that the Alliance also supports the November
6 anti-war demonstrations in six major cities around the country.

Steve Cross '72

Blind dates are primarily the major entertainment for the first three or four weeks of a girl's school. The sophomore
across the hall always needs ten or twenty dates for her boyfriend’s fraternity brothers. The dates have to be freshmen.

Are we just naive enough to believe the lines necessary for getting along with some male's "devirginization"? You did fail
to mention the quintessential discussion of what a line is and isn't.

(i.e., "I wouldn't think of doing this.")

What is this? Why not be explicit? Why not just be explicit?

If all a boy wants is two tits and an ass, why not call up the nympho—everybody knows who's one
by now—and ask her out? Instead, he has to make a pretense of being sincere in wanting "good clean fun."

You know, drink a little, not smoke that evil weed, bring her back intact with just anybody! Well, think of
all the better nots. Just think of all the diseases he could get. And, oh heaven forbid, transmit!

Any male who's still a "virgin" in college is rather anomalous anyway. Does he know what to do? Girls read
books. How many males do you actually know who've read The Sensuous Man? And, of course, there is always the
question of a girl's virginity.

Sophomores say: "Don't your freshman year, or you'll regret it." This scares the hell out of girls who are asked
later and of course those who have already partaken of the forbidden fruit.

Again, I congratulate you for insight and truthful interpretation of how some girls get after three or four weeks of
blind dates: not horny, not eager, but weary.

Lyn Richardson

Randolph-Macon

LIBRA,
SEPT. 24-OCT. 23

© 1971 Jos. Schlitz Brewing Co., Milwaukee and other great cities

Libra—You're thoughtful, clever, congenial, and gifted with a magnetic personality. And—you're also lazy.

That's why you should team up with Schlitz Malt Liquor—Taurus, the Bull. The Bull is known for its powerful, dynamic,
dependable good taste. Schlitz Malt Liquor is just the thing to melt away the gloom and fire your ambition.

But, be careful. When you get together with your most compatible signs, Gemini and Aquarius, you can tend to go
overboard. And that's not wise when dealing with the Bull. You'll need all the good judgment your sign is noted
for when you drink Schlitz Malt Liquor.

Librans like good food, good clothes, good music. And that kind of good taste just naturally leads you to the
good taste of Schlitz Malt Liquor.

Nobody makes malt liquor like Schlitz. Nobody.
