Initiating the spring term, the Hungry I presents Maggie and Terre Roche, who are presently performing on the coffee house circuit at colleges across the country. Maggie and Terre write and arrange many of the songs in their repertoire, which include "West Virginia" and "Colleges." Their songs are folk, and they sing a number of Simon and Garfunkle arrangements. The Hungry I will begin at 8:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. tonight and 10:30 p.m. and 11:45 p.m. Saturday in the Morrison Room. Admission $.50.

The Davidsonian
March 26, 1971
Page Three

DAVID HANIG
Copy Editor

Due to a shift in emphasis and concern, VISTA (Volunteers In Service To America) will be visiting the Davidson campus Monday and Tuesday to recruit prospective applicants for the program. According to Jenna Whitehead, VISTA’s area recruiter, VISTA no longer is seeking quantity in their program. Rather, quality is being emphasized, and recruiting is now being done at smaller, more selective schools “where such quality is easier to find.” Whitehead said that VISTA expects 25,000 applicants this year, with around 5,000 being accepted.

Blind Man In Visual Environment
A FEATURE
By DOUG HAYNES and DAVID WELLS
Staff Writers

“Hey, how're ya doin'?" he says as you walk somewhat uncertainly into the room, being careful to make as much noise as possible to announce your arrival. Danny Berry, a junior transfer student from Maryville College, is the second blind student at Davidson in forty years. The last one graduated in 1962. Danny greets the unseen intruder with boisterous joviality, punctuating his speech with frequent hand gestures and an ever-present laugh. He seems to radiate friendliness. Before long, you’re feeling right at ease, listening to him explain about his job as disc jockey for WDAV and talk about himself and what he likes to do.

H. Edmunds White, admissions director, said that the office’s main consideration in reviewing Danny’s application was his academic record. Instead, he has purchased a “good percentage” of the books necessary in a “talking book” form, which is a thin 16 rpm record of a person reading the book. When Danny does read in Braille, he manages to move along at a 200-word-per-minute clip—no small feat for touch reading. He takes notes for himself after classes on a Braille typewriter that has six keys which can be punched to form any one of sixty-three different characters. Danny takes his tests on a regular typewriter, usually back in his room.

“I have never attended a school for the blind and have no desire to do so. Public education is what it’s all about. A lot of blind people want a separate community, but I’d rather be a part of the real world.” It seems that for Danny, as for many other blind men and women, his blindness is a challenge to his individuality. “Blind people don’t want to be just members of the blind community,” he remarked with considerable conviction. One constant struggle which he faces stems from his desire to be evaluated and accepted as an individual capable of independent action, as opposed to his occasional need for assistance. He objects to the idea of help for help’s sake.

“I'd like to think that when someone offers to help me, he is offering aid to a fellow student, not to a blind person,” he says. “Being blind helps me in some ways. I’m obviously not swayed by first impressions due to looks or clothes. You can, however, tell a lot about a person by the voice—receptiveness, sharpness, and other qualities.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ness, openmindedness — with a pretty high degree of accuracy. It would be fairly hard to be hypocritical toward me—I hope!”

¢ VISTA Seeks Davidson Seniors

...being accepted for the program. “The idealistic, saviouristic people who once made up the program are no longer being sought,” she pointed out. “Now the emphasis is on people who have their heads together, people with good ideas, awareness of what’s happening around them, and experiences with people that will give them a high frustration level.”

Although the program has begun to emphasize specialization among its volunteer workers, “a full sixty percent of VISTA is comprised of general volunteers who come into the program without any specific talent,” Whitehead said. “These generalists are usually good at community organizing and self-help programs and ideas.”

Whitehead said that she “doubted that Nixon’s proposed plans to combine VISTA and the Peace Corps would be approved by Congress. There is presently an alliance against it, and I feel the programs will be allowed to remain separate.”

In its nationwide recruiting program, VISTA is looking for students who preferably will graduate this spring or summer. Also, a high lottery number in the draft is helpful, Whitehead said.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 A.M. to 10:30
Phone 892-2111
Davidson, N.C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Junior Year in New York

New York University sponsors a Junior Year in New York. The College, located in the heart of the city, is an integral part of the exciting metropolitan community of New York City—the business, cultural, artistic, and financial center of the nation. The city’s extraordinary resources greatly enrich both the academic program and the experience of living at New York University with the most cosmopolitan student body in the world.

This program is open to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to which they will return for their degrees.

There are strong and varied offerings in many areas, such as fine arts, urban studies, languages including non-European, mathematics in the College and at the Courant Institute, psychology, and others.

A qualified student may register for courses in all other schools of the University, including the specializations in Commerce and Education. The University sponsors programs in Spain and France.

Write for brochure to:
Director, Junior Year in New York
New York University
New York, N.Y. 10003

---

Promotion was never any question on this point. Capitol Stereo discs have been inter-...

...application was whether or not Davidson was the right place for a blind student. According to Danny, there was never any question on this point. He had visited the campus several times and was quite impressed with the environment and atmosphere.

“I thought that Davidson would be a real academic challenge and stimulation for me and it has been exactly that. The campus has more than lived up to my expectations.”

By the time the conversation turns to Danny himself and his feelings as a blind man in a visual world, all traces of self-consciousness are gone. Even words having to do with sight, such as look, see, view, lose their taboo. Textbooks are available in Braille, but so far this year Danny hasn’t been able to find the ones he has needed.