**Corrected Text:**

Outside Perspective Dormitory Suit Filed

Clifford Farrington, a sophomore at Rutgers University, has filed a suit against the university over what he terms “inadequate facilities” in his dormitory. Legal Services attorney Richard Fisher, who will represent Farrington, conducted a survey of the dormitory situation at the request of the student government association and reported that grounds for a complaint do exist.

Among Farrington’s complaints are “an absence of effective security and possible hot water injury to students due to inadequate shower facilities.”

UNC Housing Policy Attacked

The Residence College Federation has urged the Dean of Student Affairs of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill to extend off-campus living permission to sophomores and junior transfer students for the coming academic year. Steve Saunders, chairman of the RCF, called for an end to “forcing people to live in our residence halls. Our residence program should attract the students.” Saunders contended that the present policy will have “disastrous results if it is applied next year.”

Students Fund MOPAC

Students at Washington University and St. Louis University have overwhelmingly voted to tax themselves to support the Missouri Public Action Council (MOPAC). Based on the model of Ralph Nader’s organization, the MOPAC will represent the public interest in such matters as consumer protection, environmental quality, racial and sexual discrimination, and health care. The two universities will be the principal coordinators and funders of MOPAC.

Centre Changes Board Plan

Centre College will initiate a continuous service in their student cafeteria without the use of meal tickets in the fall, according to the Centre Cento. Students will not be limited to three meals a day, but they will be required to pay for each meal they take in the cafeteria. Saga Food Service, which runs the cafeteria, will provide unlimited access for students throughout the day.

Landlord-tenant relations and delivery

CHIP PRICE

The Davidsonian
May 21, 1971
Page Five

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Expedient Trustee Decision Succeeds Due To Apathy

To the Editor:

The recent Board of Trustees decision concerning fraternities and social life on campus has raised the heated controversy that could be expected from a vibrantly active and aware campus community that we have here. Those who disagree with the action (besides those who are directly involved, namely the fraternities) merely wrote it off to the further ineptitude of an administration that conducts surprise registrations and extended admissions deadlines and assures us that we will all have rooms next year... someplace.

Those who agree with the system agreed with the action because they had gotten what they had wanted and if a few people disagree, “Well, that can be expected with any new system.” These attitudes again show the apathy of this extremely educated community to what will affect it most. This willingness to contemn what is going on around us makes us the dupes, the suckers, and any other vernacular phrase that denotes one who is gullible, for any

College Should Consider Students Before Efficiency

Davidson is fast becoming a school where the student-administration ratio is more favorable than the student-faculty ratio. Over the past year at least 12 new faces have entered the college administration. Office space has grown so much that two classrooms have been made into offices. Exactly when this process will stop is still unknown.

First and most obvious is the 10 percent rise in tuition. This will hurt many of us and may cut down on anything extra someone might want to do. This is accompanied by the fact that scholarships will no longer meet all financial need. The have-nots now are being hit on both sides.

A second consequence is a 10 percent cut in the athletic budget. Major sports such as football, basketball, or tennis will not suffer and rightly so. The ones who will suffer will be the student-run activities such as sailing, rugby, or the club sports. In addition, any new sport which wanted to come on campus will have to wait or be funded out of students' pockets. These include a crew or club football. This type of activity is often where the average student can get the fullest enjoyment from athletics.

A third major area to be affected will be the already overworked faculty. Departmental secretaries to help professors who could be spending more time with students or in the community will not be forthcoming. No new members outside of replacements will goin- to departments such as political science, biology, or psychology. Raises for many faculty members will be delayed or cut out altogether. In this area, both students and faculty will suffer. It seems that right now ideas of efficiency and a strong administration have come out ahead of concern for the student and providing a good college life. Next year’s freshmen will spend at least three years without a Union. They will be counseled by a faculty member who has a double obligation to both students and faculty. Tuition raises show no signs of slacking off despite the new fundraising team which will enter the field. All in all, a pretty bleak picture. Davidson still will have many advantages, but the catalogue and public relations department can describe them more skillfully than this writer. It seems as though the college has gone too far and too fast in its changes. Perhaps the administration should pause and look at what it has done. Maybe it should listen to the grumbling of those outside of the Senate and other similar bodies. The question of whether the student or efficiency is more important will have to be solved. The student had better win if Davidson is to survive.

Let us review what we had before and compare it to what we have now. Before, we had a college-sanctioned and for all practical purposes college-enforced social system of fraternities. This always excluded 5-15 percent of our student body from the only type of social life that was offered. This was wrong and unfair; that point is not being disputed. Now we have a college-sanctioned and enforced social system. This is an experiment in social systems that is designed to pioneer the field and make a lasting contribution to society. In this experiment, there are approximately 200 unwilling participants. This 20 percent has been offered no choice in the matter. Sound familiar? How can any new system succeed when 1/5 of its participants are forced to take part? Have not the fraternities the same rights as anyone else? Yes, this is a question of rights. We needed a new system that would give everyone the opportunity to participate. Presently, individuals have the right to go elsewhere, but any group does not. What will be done next in the name of expediency I am afraid to speculate on, but I am sure of one thing: this smacks of utter and complete administration control over everything that can affect this student body. This is not power with consent but power for them to do what they feel is right.

Garry W. Coulter ’73
Davidson College

Galbraith Wrote Speech Specially For Davidson?

To the Editor:

Bill Mayfield is to be commended for the discovery that Professor Galbraith's visit to the Davidson campus occasioned. This discovery, set forth in Mr. Mayfield’s letter in THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 14, is the commonplace observation that some of us are greater frauds than others, or more accurately, some of us are so foolish as to expose our fraud to the public. Professor Galbraith accepted the invitation to give a Reynolds Lecture at Davidson in May 1971 in January 1970. It is possible, though not very probable, that he wrote “Foreign Policy: The Next Reform” for this purpose. It is not uncommon for college professors, as with a few other groups, to get as much intellectual mileage out of their efforts as possible. Therefore, when two of Galbraith’s friends started a new publication and invited him to write the first “guest editorial,” it is conceivable that he merely used the speech he had prepared especially for Davidson College. It is, of course, much more likely that the order of events was reversed. A bit more research by Mr. Mayfield would have uncovered the fact that the same speech-article is reprinted in Galbraith’s latest book, Economics, Peace and Laughter, and a modicum of knowledge about these matters would enable one to predict, with little fear of being wrong, that when an aspiring young professor of political science “writes” his “Readings in Foreign Policy,” the speech-article, or article-speech, will be reprinted again. Getting excited about the latter issue has the advantage of leaving the throwing of stones to people who do not live in glass houses.

E. F. Patterson
Davidson College