Page Eight • February 26, 1971

The Davidsonian

Friday, February 26
10 a.m. ROTC Speaker: Dr. Kazimierz Grzybowski
8 p.m. Classical Indian Music
10 p.m. Union Coffee House: “The Southern Feeling”

Saturday, February 27
9 a.m. Area Exams

Monday, March 1
10 a.m. Senate Sponsored “Gripe Session”
8 p.m. Speaker: Rennie Davis

Tuesday, March 2
12 p.m. Lunch Films
8 p.m. Fine Film: “The Caretaker”
9:30 p.m. Discussion: “The Caretaker”

Wednesday, March 3
10 p.m. Open End

Thursday, March 4
8 p.m. Film: Felix Greene’s “China”

Up ’n’ Coming
10 a.m. Educational Affairs Committee
7:30 p.m. Love Auditorium
10 a.m. Blue Room
8 p.m. Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Morrison Room
7:30 p.m. Green Room
8 p.m. Green Room
10 p.m. Perkins Auditorium
8 p.m. Morrison Room

College Takes Fifteen In Exchange Program

Fifteen students, including three males, have now been accepted by Davidson for attendance next year under the Eight College Exchange
program. Director of Instructional Development Jay H. Ostwalt has emphasized, however, that “although we've accepted them, it doesn’t mean that
they've accepted us. It is not yet certain that all of them will come here next year.” Ostwalt, who is
Davidson's representative on the planning and functional committee of the exchange program, pointed out that one girl accepted at Davidson
last year chose at the last minute not to come.

Housing Aims Announced
By STEVE CROSS
Copy Editor

Better housing for married students, special accommodations for the coed exchange girls, and major renovations for Cannon, Duke, and Richardson
dormitories are the top student housing priorities for next year, according to RHA President Bill Alexander and Student Housing Director
Scotty Nicholls.

Mrs. Nicholls said that Cannon Dormitory would be renovated in a style “very similar to what was done in East.”
The change would include new wardrobes, furniture, drapes, and lighting. The details of the Duke dormitory renovation are not yet
settled between Mrs. Nicholls and Grover C. Meetze Jr., director of the physical plant. But “the bathrooms will definitely be
improved. The bathrooms are very bad,” she noted.

Alexander said, “The SGA and RHC will work very hard while I’m in office to make married students’ housing livable.”
He praised the report on married students housing done by Tom Robertson and Brent Duane last May. The Robertson-Lane report
recommended the establishment of an on-campus apartment-style facility for married students and their wives.

22 Picked For Freshman Halls

Twenty-two hall counselors and three alternate counselors have been selected by Housing Director Scotty Nicholls, Dean of Students William H.
Terry, and this year’s senior hall counselors. The counselors are Bruce Baird, Bruce Batten, Gerry Bello, Joel Bradley, Jimmy Brown,
Mait Browning, Dick Clay, Mike Collins, Mike Creasman, Scott Davidson, Robert Dawson, Larry Duncan, Randy Ely, Ken Jones, Rob Krebs,
Ralph Peeples, John Robison, Bruce Snyder, Rhett Talbert, Seaton Taylor, John Weathers, and Robert Wright. The alternates are Tom Dover,
Steve Shepard, and Rich Wilson.

Mrs. Nicholls added that she is “trying to improve the selection process. There will be more emphasis on training to
help them to do a better job.” Among the training innovations, she said, was a sensitivity training session organized and
led by Dr. Meredith Hall, student psychological counselor. “There will be some other kinds of training for them before September,”
she added, including a meeting in the spring to give out “background information.”

The counselors are all rising juniors on the recommendation of hall counselors in the past who have been counselors for
two years. According to Mrs. Nicholls, the senior hall counselors often get married or leave school early, which is bad
because “there is a need for hall counselors throughout the year.” She added that Dean Terry also favors the change.displeasure
with Mrs. Nicholl’s decision not to house next year’s freshmen in Belk dormitory. He said the RHC under outgoing chairman
Cecil Burney had voted to house the freshmen in Belk, and that Mrs. Nicholls and Dean of Students William H.
Terry had made a contrary decision without consulting the RHC.

“Hopefully there won't be any freshmen in Belk,” said Mrs. Nicholls, citing the long halls, “one lounge for 300 people,”
and “the lack of unity you get in freshmen halls.” Mrs. Nicholls added that double room rent will rise from
$300 to $350 next year.

Students Uphold (Continued from Page 1)

The new president said that “in the future, we will be much, much more careful about how we negotiate with
them (speakers), especially about money.” DuRant said that, although his objections were a combination of money and of the particular
speaker, he would not have objections to spending a like amount of money for a speaker such as William F.
Buckley because the well-known conservative editor of National Review is “a recognized leader.” DuRant said that no demonstration was planned
for Davis’ appearance, and that he was not even planning to go see the controversial speaker. No heckling or jeering
was on tap, and none would be instituted by him.

Two of these accepted haven't even applied yet because of a slight mix-up, but Ostwalt said that both women, students
at Sweetbriar, had expressed a definite desire to attend Davidson next year. The Davidson committee concerning the exchange program has
found it necessary to change its previous policy concerning students that it accepts. The committee had originally stated that only
juniors who would be able to stay the full academic year would be accepted. Under those restrictions only six women
students would have been accepted, so the policy was changed.

Concerning the acceptance procedures, Ostwalt said that he felt that any student who could do the work at the other
participating schools should be allowed to come to Davidson under the exchange program. Six women from Mary Baldwin, four from
Hollins, and the two from Sweetbriar have been accepted and apparently will attend next year. Randolph-Macon will send no students.
Two of the men come from Hampden-Sydney, looking for certain courses in the natural sciences that they cannot get at
their home school. The other male is from Washington and Lee. According to Ostwalt, he will attend Davidson because of
certain “family connections and relations.”

The women will stay in the recently renovated Gray House, across the street from the Cunningham Fine Arts Building and
the guest house. The men will live in the dormitories. Only Washington and Lee, with 29 applicants, had more students
apply than Davidson. Among the other participating schools, Hollins had 12 applications, Randolph-Macon had four, and Sweetbriar had four. There
were no applications to Mary Baldwin, Hampden-Sydney, or Randolph-Macon (women). Davidson had more participants this year than any other school,
according to Ostwalt. Eight Davidson students have applied to Hollins for next year under the exchange program.

Private Club in the Blue Ridge Mountains seeks young married couple to act as day camp counselors from June 15
through Labor Day. Must love children of all ages. Also, experience needed in life guarding, camping, and crafts. Please send
resume to Warren J. Tremblay, General Manager, Roaring Gap Club, Inc., Roaring Gap, N.C.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
OPEN 9-8
MONDAY - SATURDAY

PANTS EAST
1522 East Fourth St.
“Largest selection of flares, jeans, bell-bottoms in Charlotte”
Owned & Operated by people who know what you want.
