(Staff photo by Davidson)

THE WILDCATS MADE THE STEALS... Billy Pierce steals the ball for a fast break in the match with The Citadel.

’Cats Take Three

For the ninth straight year, the 'Cats have proven that no one is going to beat them in “the pit.” During the last week, Davidson has rolled up wins over Furman, The Citadel, and V.M.I. in Johnston Gym. Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30, the ‘Cats will tackle Cincinnati in the Charlotte Coliseum.

The ’Cats’ seniors got a fine farewell in a runaway win over V.M.I. The game was the last on the home court for Ron Stelzer, Duncan Postma, Billy Pierce, and Steve Kirley, and was designated senior night for the ‘Cats. These four started with Eric Minkin and led the Wildcats to a 109-64 romp over the Keydets. V.M.I. began the game with a press and an effort at a slowdown game but only took the lead once, 7-6. After the first minutes, the game belonged entirely to the Wildcats. The ‘Cats shot 67 percent from the floor against the Keydets’ 31 percent. From the line, the Wildcats hit 64 percent while V.M.I. made 67 percent of their free throws. Eric Minkin held the high for the game with 24 points, with Duncan Postma adding 20 to the ‘Cat score. Scoring honors for the Keydets were shared by Jerry Renfro and Rodney Brewer, each hitting 15.

The ’Cats took The Citadel with a slightly less impressive score, downing the Bulldogs 85-50. Scoring honors in that game were held by Joe Sutter with 21 points. Steve Kirley followed with 20. Just before the game with The Citadel, Coach Terry Holland announced that Bryan Adrian would not play in any more games this season due to his knee. The ’Cats beat the Furman Paladins 71-41 in their...

Swetenburg Paces ’Cats With New Record In Big 7

By DAVID TIERNEY
Sports Writer

Ray Swetenburg, one of the most versatile performers in track for Coach Heath Whittle, made some fine overall showings in the Big 7 meet last week at Chapel Hill. Swetenburg, a junior from Gainesville, Ga., placed in two events for the ‘Cats, finishing fourth in the triple jump and second in the high jump at 6'2", a new Davidson indoor record. Other ‘Cats performers who helped pull the team to a sixth-place finish were Steve Shankweiler, who received third in the shot-put, and Tom Richardson, with a second-place finish in the 60-yard dash. Swetenburg was also on his way to a second-place finish in the 60-yard high hurdles, according to Coach Whittle, when he brushed the third hurdle and fell.

Swetenburg has been a big boon for Coach Whittle’s thinclads the past three seasons. The last two years he has received the Fetzer award for excellence in track. Among other accomplishments, he was the high scorer on the team last year and also set a new record in the 120-yard high hurdles with a time of 14.6. Swetenburg is a pre-med major and says he has set his sights on attending med...school at either Tulane.” A week from today the indoor track season ends with the conference meet at VMI.

by Che Havidssnian
February 26, 1971
Page Seven

Cats Hold Lead As Season Ends
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

In spite of threats and rumors predicting their downfall, the Cats have kept the number one position in the Southern Conference. The Cats fill the top spot with an 8-1 conference record. Conference action tomorrow night will determine the remaining seedings. East Carolina and The Citadel will meet in Greenville to fight for third place. William and Mary will tackle Richmond to preserve their second rank.

The Cats will greatly benefit from their number one ranking in the conference tournament in Charlotte next week. They will receive a bye in the first round Thursday night and face the winner of the fourth and fifth seeded teams on Friday.

Opinions on the tournament vary throughout the conference. Coach Terry Holland for the Wildcats feels confident that Davidson will make a clean sweep of the tournament. But this position is not shared by either Coach Dick Campbell from The Citadel or Coach Mike Schuler from V.M.I. Campbell said that the conference this year has been fairly evenly matched and pointed to the home-court victories most teams have racked up. Schuler said that he felt there are six teams in the conference capable of beating Davidson.

The winner of the conference championship will receive an automatic berth in the NCAA regionals, and the opinion of the coaches was divided as to the capability of conference teams to compete nationally. Both Campbell and Schuler stated that they felt that no team in the conference would last in national competition. Holland held a different view: “Davidson can give any team in the country a good run for their money,” he said. Holland pointed to the tight matches the Cats have given St. Johns, Wake Forest, Duke, and South Carolina. “We might not beat them,” he said, “but we won't give them any easy win either.”

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagna — Chicken Parmigiana — Salads
ICE STEAK
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

NEEDED: GUITAR PLAYERS, BANJO PICKERS, PIANO PLAYERS, SINGERS, AND UKULELE STRUMMERS, ETC.
For employment on part-time basis—no previous show biz experience necessary.
Call John Coble 847-4488 or apply directly to the Farm Restaurant
1200 Sam Newell Rd.
Matthews, N. C.