Che Bauitisanian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR SEPTEMBER 24, 1971

Pomp And Circumstance

A friend recently told us of a dream, or rather a nightmare, that he suffers through each fall while at
Davidson. It seems that in his vision he pictures himself standing in a large room watching a long string of
elegant robes funnel the air as they move with great pomp in directionless circles, finally collapsing like broken umbrellas into
hundreds of stuffy seats. Our friend’s dream, of course, is his own graphic illustration of that orgy of self-adulation which
Davidson conducts each fall—the annual convocation. Costing much, entertaining and educating few, and attended by a minuscule representation of students,
the convocation in its present form needs to be drastically studied and reinterpreted.

The whole attitude taken towards the convocation has come to rest on the principles of 19th-century academia. Rather than presenting
the community and its visitors with a real opportunity to think and breathe and evaluate the college role, as such
educational ventures should, the college’s “fall ball” has become a time when matters of abstract academic philosophy are expounded upon
amid the symbols of traditional education. Of course, this is the avowed purpose of convocation, and so the event serves
its purpose well. It is this purpose, however, that we call into question, for Davidson College should expand beyond the
mere academic experience, and if concerned with symbols, then its convocations should symbolize this supra-academic awareness and concern of the
college community.

This whole state of things is that much more distressing when one considers the potential of such a venture. The
idea behind Davidson’s convocations is a sound one: bringing together (a literal translation of the Latin “convoco”) the various and
diverse elements of the college community to acknowledge the accomplishments of the college. But a boring routine of perfunctory speeches
and traditional honors does little for the college community. Why not break some of the tradition, and transform convocational hours
into meaningful educational experiences of honest dialogue for students within the context of the college community? Indeed, why not ask
a student, or even one of the more articulate members of the faculty or maintenance staff, to deliver the address?
Davidson College should keep its convocation; however, it should keep it interesting and worthwhile and “relevant.”

A Word About Sex

It’s refreshing to have an important administration official like Vice President Bevan speak out clearly on the issue of coeducation.
In the past, there has been a tendency for college officials to simply mutter something about “certainly something we would
want to investigate.” We believe that there are several points which Bevan has made which give a very accurate picture
of the status of coeducation at Davidson.

Speaking from his own area of expertise, Bevan has gone on record as saying that academically there is no reason
that he can see for further delay in coeducation if that is the course which Davidson decided to take. In
the past, this has been offered as a hedge by some members of the administration when the issue has been
raised. The two key points which Bevan made, we feel, are the analysis of the role of single-sex schools and
his summarization of the present climate at Davidson.

The Women’s Lib movement has made the academic world particularly aware of some of its preconceptions about the academic capabilities
and intentions of men and women. No longer is a finishing school for women easily justified, nor is an all-male
school which has two and three-man departments in sociology and fine arts. It is tradition which stands behind the sexual
segregation of students, not academic concerns. It is not a question as much as what Davidson can offer to women
students as what Davidson can offer to any student. With the school’s selective enrollment and limited resources, it will necessarily
appeal to a small group of either sex.

The most telling point of the Bevan interview, however, lies in the question of initiative. Coeducation has approval in principle
from the trustees; it remains for the administration and faculty to come up with a suitable plan. It is most
disappointing to regard the total lack of initiative which has been shown by the administration. Coeducation will not suddenly appear
unless we move off our traditional center.

BOBBY ALLEN

Those Graduate Fellowships You’ve All Been Waiting For

From the experience of the past few weeks, I’ve become convinced it’s every senior’s dream to find a graduate fellowship
so obscure that no one else knows about it. I have here compiled at great expense and personal sacrifice a
list of the most obscure graduate fellowships now being offered in the United States. Some of them are so obscure
that even the donors don't know they exist.

The Foard Foundation Ethnic Grant — awarded to graduating seniors who are ¼ American Indian, ¼ Mexican American, ¼ Black,
and ¼ WASP who will present themselves to be studied at the Foard Foundation.

The Patterson F. Court Mystic Brotherhood and Sacred Rites Fellowship — no longer awarded.

Jerry Rubin Fellowship — awarded to any revolutionary senior willing to rip off his fellowship from Chase Manhattan Bank.

Woodrow Wilson School of International Affairs Fellowship — full grant for three years study leading to the Ph.D. in InternationalRelations.
Important stipulation: awarded only to varsity ping-pong players. Christian Barnard Fellowship — full medical school grant at the University of
South Africa. One stipulation: recipient must be available if the need for a transplant donor should arise. James Rotson Fellowship
— $6000 for travel and study for one year in Europe. Recipients will be determined by submitting lists of random
European countries on slips of plain white paper. All lists are placed in a brown derby and the winners are
drawn by French Post Office clerks. Lewis Cottin, French Ministries of War and Industrial Production Internship — full grant leading
to a graduate degree and large profits through the study of industrial exploitation of third-world countries. Brooks Brothers Fellowship —
$4000 grant for the study of law at the University of Virginia. Can be used only to purchase suits and
neckties. University of Kentucky Poultry Science Fellowship — leading to a commission of Colonel. Richard M. Nixon Fellowship — full
grant for three years study in macro-economics. Good only at the University of Tokyo. Alfred P. Slain Fellowship — good
for one bed of roses. Awarded to future potential presidents of General Motors. Maxwell Taylor Creative Writing Award — awarded
to the creator of the most novel and credible document citing more than five justifications for the American involvement in
Indo-China. Educational Testing Service Grant — award covering the cost of all graduate admissions tests to the person who can
completely and correctly fill out all the forms.

I Never Cared For Roast Lamb

“I never much cared for roast lamb, but I always rather enjoyed the mint jelly,” she said, licking her fingers.
That's the first absurd thing I overheard at The Hub the other day. Here’s what else I heard: I heard
somebody from Cornelius who said the story going around down there is that two years ago when there was a
fire in Duke Dormitory the firemen couldn’t even get into the doors “because of all the nekkid girls who came
running out of there.” They also thought that beer and cocktails are sold in frat houses and the Union every
day before dinner. I knew this just couldn’t be true, because one of our good trustees told me that “alcohol
is the devil in liquid form” and that I am a “commie rat” for being opposed to ROTC. I also
heard that while some faculty members virtually went begging for houses in Davidson this summer, the College rented out its
“V.I.P. Suite,” usually reserved for visiting scholars, to John Tate, the President of the Piedmont Bank and Trust Company, who
is not even a college employee. I understand that some people are offended by “obscene” words printed in THE DAVIDSONIAN
by columnists. By contrast, I heard that the following limerick was written by a faculty member and passed around amongst
his colleagues while the faculty heard a presentation about the proposed exchange program with Baroda University in India:

“There was a young man from Baroda
Who'd not pay a whore what he owed her.
She came in one day, and asked him to pay,
And pissed in his whiskey soda.”

I gulped the last bite of my food and walked outside. I looked around me at the clouded sky and
the trees turning brown in a few places. Just down the road I could see the new building for the
Honors College. That program rejected me last year when Frontis Johnston wrote that “there was no one to direct my
Honors College program at this time.” I walked past Grey House and wondered when this place would ever begin to
admit women students, and I wondered, too, how long it would take us after leaving here to regain confidence in
talking to girls as people rather than just seeing them as sex objects. I wondered again why my off-campus housing
application was rejected as I saw friends of mine who walked past me to their off-campus quarters. This is my
eighth year of dormitory life. I wandered back toward my room looking all around myself and seeing again that despite
all my hopes Davidson had not changed, and I looked around me wondering when I would be rejected again or
battered around by this place where I have committed four of my life’s years. My hope, on entering my dorm,
was that my waterbed would seem like a nice retreat from all that I saw and felt, but when I
returned, I heard that Mrs. Nicholls wants me to get rid of that, too.

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that
week. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.
