Staff photo by Barnes

UP AND OVER
John Braxton passes to Gerry Bello in the Indies' 25-0 defeat of the Betas.

Flickerball Season Begins With New Teams, Leagues
By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

The IMAC season began this week as the flickerball schedule got into full swing, complete with a new format and
expansion of the league to 20 teams. Under the new system, there are twenty teams, divided into two leagues of
ten teams each. Each league is further divided into two five-team divisions.

Each team will open the season with three interdivisional games, before playing a round-robin schedule with the other four teams
in its division. After the seven-game regular season, the top two teams from each division will compete in an eight-team
single-elimination tournament to determine the all-campus champion.

There are five new teams in the IMAC: Watts I and II, Pi Kappa Phi II, the local SPE’s, and
Cannon-Watts replaces Watts-Belk. Sigma Chi and Phi Gamma Delta have dropped out of the league. Also new this year is
a rule allowing faculty members to compete. They are eligible to form a faculty team for other sports later in
the year.

Larranaga, Postma Join Wildcat Basketball Staff
Jim Larranaga has joined the Davidson basketball program as assistant coach to Terry Holland and as a recruiter. Larranaga is
a graduate of Providence College and had been trying to make the Detroit Pistons roster until his decision to come
to Davidson as a coach. Larranaga and Bo Brickels will work together on future recruiting, probably dividing their work on
a regional basis.

Larranaga led Providence to a 29-7 season and a final berth in the National Invitational Tournament playing the University of
North Carolina. During his sophomore year, he averaged 19.5 points a game and was named Sophomore of the Year by
the New England Basketball Writers Association and an NCAA District I All-Star.

Another new addition to the basketball coaching staff is Duncan Postma. Postma, point man from last year’s Wildcat team, has
taken over Nel McGeachy's position for the week of October 22 as coach for the Wildkittens. McGeachy left Davidson to
take a position as coach at Duke University. The coaches have added a fifth freshman cager. He is on a
scholarship.

Rugby Club Opens Practices Monday
The Davidson rugby club is being reorganized by Zack Mobley. Mobley said the club will begin practices Monday afternoon in
preparation for a match with the University of South Carolina on Oct. 2. This is the fourth year Davidson has
fielded a rugby club.

The last IMAC event of the fall term is a swim meet during the week of November 8-12.

LEAGUE A
Division I
Division II

LEAGUE B
Division I
Division II

A golf tournament will be held at Catawba Country Club on Monday, September 21. The next event is scheduled for
the week of October 22.in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti. BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiane
— Salads — CHOICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N.C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The Davidsonian September 17, 1971 Page Seven

Gridders To Face Improved Keydets
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Football coaches are sometimes hard to comprehend. One would expect Dave Fagg to be optimistic about tomorrow's VMI game. VMI
has been consistently rated at the bottom of the Southern Conference. Last year they posted a 1-10 season, and no
advances were expected. But Fagg can only think of the improvements that VMI has made in the past year. The
Keydets have added a new coach in the person of Bob Thalman. Thalman is a graduate of Richmond and has
had various football jobs all over the South. Fagg calls him one of the finest men in football. Thalman also
has something to work with. VMI is basically a running team, and this year they have two fair backs in
running back Mac Bowman and fullback Mike Teubner. Last year Bowman racked up 350 yards rushing and Teubner hit 228.
Fagg is also quick to point out the advantages the Keydets will have going into the game. “They are essentially
an unknown,” he said, “because it’s their first game, and they have a new coach.” Another advantage the Keydets will
have is weight. “They outweigh us in every line position,” Fagg said. But so did Wake Forest, and Davidson played
the Deacons a fairly even game defensively. Maybe Fagg could have something to worry about. In their first game on
their home field, the Keydets may have some advantage. “But our offense is better than ever, we can move the
ball,” Fagg says. And tomorrow night they should. He’s considered all the possibilities.

Soccer Team Opens With Scrimmage

The Davidson soccer team has scheduled a scrimmage with the Charlotte Soccer Club for 1:30 Sunday afternoon on Sprunt field.
This will be the first field showing for the Davidson kickers, a team coach Peter Sterling called an improvement over
last year’s Southern Conference champions. The Charlotte Club has a team to be respected, according to Dick Levan, captain of
the Davidson team. “They are all amateur players,” he said, “but they have a lot of experience and they have
already beaten Belmont-Abbey, one of the toughest teams around.”

Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Camping Equipment
Jeans and Work Clothes — War Surplus
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.

DAVIDSON GROCERY
GROCERIES, BEER, WINE AND PICNIC SUPPLIES
7:00-5:30 Mon., Tues., Thur., Sat.
7:00-1:00 Wed.
7:00-6:00 Fri.
1:30-7:30 Sun.

Brandeis University
The Jacob Hiatt Institute
Study in Jerusalem, Israel
July - December, 1971
(40 students from 25 universities enrolled in 1970)
Juniors and Seniors eligible
Four courses — Hebrew not required
Earn 16 credits
Cost: $2000 — Tuition, room, board, round-trip travel
Some financial aid available.
Write today for information
application deadline March 1st
THE HIATT INSTITUTE
Brandeis University
Waltham, Massachusetts 02154
