The Davidsonian

“WHAT WE'VE GOT HERE IS A FAILURE TO COMMUNICATE”
—C. H. Luke

The Second Annual Lampoon Issue

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 15, 1971

A Plan Of Action

Although in the past you have treated the fraternity issue with fairness and objectivity, the time has come when we
can no longer keep our silence. As most of the campus knows by now, THE DAVIDSONIAN’s normally reliable sources have
leaked to us that President Spencer may be on the way out for his role in the recent social changes.
For once we are truly capable and we hope, although it does not seem possible, that our story may be
in error just this once.

THE DAVIDSONIAN has long maintained that the trustee decisions, where they violate the policy of this paper, are to be
violently resisted. After our editors have approached the utmost of restraint, it is clear that our story may violate the
editorial policy. After all, they are not final no matter who says they are.

So we come to the case of President Spencer. If the trustee decisions, where they violate the editorial policy, are
to oust Spencer, then it is high time we let them know how the majority of students represented by this
paper feel about this matter.

Yet now that we have outlined our position, what is to be done? The answer, of course, is obvious, and
that is just the sort of thing we have always advocated in this sort of situation. If that is done,
a reasonable solution to this problem is still within sight. It must be clear by now to the trustees reading
this editorial that we mean business. Your editors realize that to be as specific and direct as we must be
in this situation may not endear us to our readers, but sometimes extreme situations demand such extreme solutions.

A Valuable Vestige

All too often it seems today that college students just do not appreciate all that they have been given by
their parents and by American technology. Unfortunately, the result of this failure to appreciate the blessings of America results in
the hasty and senseless destruction of established institutions which should be preserved—if for no other reason, preserved for tradition’s sake.

Fortunately for Davidson, the voices of reason have stepped in to bolster a Davidson tradition that a small minority of
hippy ingrates was trying to abolish. We are speaking of the school annual, the Quips and Cranks. The yearbook, as
everyone knows, is vital to the continued enjoyment of life at Davidson, and there is no doubt in our minds
that 99 percent of the decent students here want it preserved so that they can have a record of their
stay at Davidson. For that reason, we welcome the news that a special grant of $5,000 will allow the annual
to continue in operation. To do less would be less than justice.

Editorial Action

If the recently announced plans of Social Chairman Stuart Shelton are any indication, this year’s Midwinters weekend should be the
best ever for Davidson College. The changes he has planned with Union Director C. Shaw Smith and Union Board Chairman
Weldon Shenk are sensible, well-conceived, supremely justified, and certain to be welcomed by the student body. Of course, we hardly
need mention that these are the same sorts of changes your editors have been advocating for almost a year now.

We are happy to serve those students we represent.

Sorry, I don’t feel like doing anything funny this week.

DICK ANDERSON

SGA Longhairs Under Fire

The recent informal luncheon talk delivered to the Independent Round Table by SGA President G. Rankin “Noble” Coble advocating the
abolition of his organization has raised both serious fears and great hopes among conscientious observers here. One immediate result has
been an underground movement, supposedly incited by administration newcomer P. Hairston “Harry” Hobbie and...called the “Hobble Coble” movement. Another of
the rumored supporters is the SGA vice president, a political and actual unknown. “Pristine persons of great gallantry and gumption,”
according to Round Table sources who heard Coble expound, “are needed to rectify the egregious government of former years, and
here at Davidson the studentry has proved impuissant to provide such paladinic ties.”

Coble also expressed his concern about the SGA's role in the undermining of student morality, according to the Round Tablers.
Coble pointed out that the growth of long hair on the Davidson Campus coincides with the replacement of the former
student government by the SGA three years ago. Coble added that he wanted to make one thing perfectly clear: “Despite
the inadequacy-instigated incompetence of the SGA, the rewarding reporting and selfless support of THE DAVIDSONIAN have been a source of
retrograde rejoicing to me in more halcyon happenstances.”

Among the great hopes felt by responsible observers here were the return to closed dormitories, re-institution of Christian temperance on
campus, and a doubled football budget. It was not believed that even under the best of circumstances abolition of the
SGA would bring about sending those coeds back where they belong, but they may be required to get crewcuts and
confine their apparel to “Black Cat” brand overalls.

Enough of the crap. After years of neglect by the powers that be, the silent majority of Davidson students is
organizing to put an end to the gross encumbrances under which it labors. We are organizing because the Davidson Establishment
does not realize that our problems have nothing to do with the objects of the current educational and social reforms.
That is, most of the students here are unhappy because: (1) if freshmen, they haven't had a date for nearly
a whole academic year; (2) if sophomores, they haven't had a good date for nearly two academic years; (3) some
of the courses in the present curriculum are demanding to the point of being rigorous; (4) it is impossible to
avoid all of the courses mentioned above; (5) the money has run out; (6) general depression; (7) etc.

If many among the readers of THE DAVIDSONIAN find themselves nodding understandingly at the list of troubles mentioned above, here’s
a hot flash: You don't have to take it anymore. A group of concerned student activists has formed an organization
which will meet the needs of the Real Majority of the Davidson student body. This organization is to be known
as the Blue Student Coalition; its goal is the alleviation of the miseries of Davidson students through the newly-developed concept
of Creative Carping. This ingenious method of problem-solving is based on the older, more established concept of “getting it off
the chest.”

Broken down into small discussion groups, Blue Students will become members of encounter groups of no more than ten. At
the opening of a session, one will reveal one of his problems. Starting with the phrase “You think that’s bad...”
a second student will add a worry of his own. This process will continue, each student contributing in turn, until
the pool of complaints is exhausted or until a problem which eclipses all others mentioned or contemplated is produced.

Such an innovation in student affairs is worthy of both praise and support by everyone in the college community. The
coordinators of the Blue Student organization, Cecil Burney and Rev. Scott Woodmansee, have done an outstanding job in soliciting funds,
having conjured up $45,000 in grants from the Richardson and Union Activities Grant Foundations. This will enable the BSC to
renovate the Davidson Presbyterian Church as a headquarters for the movement (this move being facilitated by the secession of a
labor).
