Six Fraternities Consider Leaving Campus Selectivity Seems Sure To Survive

AN ANALYSIS By RUSS MERRITT Co Editor-in-Chief

Davidson's selective fraternity system, which had appeared to be down and out for the final count, is making a strong comeback and has returned to the fray with some new ammunition. At least six of the twelve national fraternities are seriously considering continuing operations off campus, and at least one has reportedly decided to maintain eating facilities away from the campus.

Such action would appear to be contradictory to the guidelines laid down by the trustees of the college last fall concerning Davidson's social system. The trustees stated that no selective fraternity of Davidson students should be allowed to set up eating and living facilities away from the campus. The Committee of 18, in its official report on the future of the fraternities at Davidson, echoed the desires of the trustees, offering the fraternities four options for their continued existence. Maintaining eating and living facilities off campus was not included among these options.

Until recently, none of the fraternities had officially declared that it would choose the third option offered, concerning continuing operations off campus. Neither had any house made definite plans to reject the college's options altogether. In recent developments, however, the Phi Gamma Delta national fraternity has announced that it will take the course offered in option three and that it will unofficially take a long, hard look at the possibilities of maintaining facilities.

The former president of the Gamms, Charlie Parks, resigned his position in December when he came under heavy criticism from other members. Junior Brian Evans was then elected in a bitterly contested race, but declared his election void. (According to Bruce Batten, a leader among the anti-national members of the house, representatives from the national headquarters then entered the picture and helped persuade several anti-national members to resign from the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. In the new election, "only those who wanted to remain a fraternity" voted, according to Robert Norris, the newly elected president. "It seems to have worked out well, too," Norris contended, "for we've had no complaints from the other group so far."

---

1. Secure from the bookstore the necessary number of self-scheduling examination envelopes, one envelope per test. Enclosed in each envelope will be two examination schedule cards: one for the student (Yellow), and one for the Registrar (Red).
2. Work out the examination schedule you prefer. Using a pen, fill out each envelope and its corresponding examination schedule cards according to your schedule. (Remember laboratory or practicum tests announced by professors. Schedule written examinations so as not to conflict with these tests.)
3. Sometime between February 22 and February 25, turn in to your professor the appropriate envelope with the red examination schedule card attached. Keep the yellow examination schedule card for your own use.
4. At the scheduled time of one of your examinations, take the appropriate card in your possession and present it to a secretary or student worker in the Examination Distribution Center located on the first floor of Chambers. You will be given the corresponding envelope with the exam enclosed. You may pick up examinations beginning at 8:40 a.m. and 1:40 p.m.
5. Examinations may be taken in any classroom in Chambers. It is suggested that students needing to use books, tables, and graphs (as specified by the professor) take the respective examinations in the Thomas L. Perkins Auditorium (the dome room of Chambers).
6. The completed written examination should be placed back into the respective envelope and personally returned to the Examination Distribution Center no later than 12:15 p.m. for morning examination schedules or 5:15 p.m. for afternoon examination schedules. You will be given the examination schedule card presented earlier when you received the examination. This card should be kept by you for a period of at least two weeks. The card is your evidence that the exam was returned.
7. At the end of each examination, each student must sign the Honor Pledge on each examination envelope before it can be accepted by a staff member of the Examination Distribution Center.
8. If a student fails to take his examination at the scheduled time, a make-up examination may be taken only by permission of the professor of the particular course at a time immediately prior to or during the first week of the subsequent semester.

Examination Schedule: Monday, March 8 at 8:40 a.m. through Thursday, March 11 at 5:15 p.m.17 ‘nationals’ who have now committed themselves to keeping Phi Gamma Delta fraternity alive at Davidson. Furthermore, the national headquarters seems to be very interested in the Davidson situation and are giving Norris’ group much support. The 17 nationals have formally decided to set up operations off campus next year, and according to sources, are very seriously considering disobeying the trustee guidelines by operating facilities for eating regular meals off campus. Norris emphasized that the national group has “adequate financial means to rent or buy a house. We're not hurting financially at all.”

There has been no policy set by the college administration concerning those fraternities that might reject the four options offered them in the college's proposal. Dean of Students Will Terry told reporters that “the college administration will follow the guidelines of the trustees and those of the Committee of 18. As I understand it, the fraternities don’t have permission from the college to eat off campus,” Terry said. “If any of them do go off (See SIX, Page 8)

Davidsonian
February 19, 1971

SGA Schedules Referendum
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

A student referendum to decide whether or not Rennie Davis will speak on campus for $1,000 will be held next Tuesday. After a 14-5 vote Monday night reaffirming the initial action of the old senate to book Davis, the newly-elected student Senate was then confronted by a petition from senior Chip DuRant. DuRant had secured nine more than the 100 required signatures, beginning at 7:00 that same morning.

SGA President Danny Clodfelter clarified the engagement, stating that the contract was presently in the mail and not yet irrevocable if the referendum carried. In the contract, Davis will give a one-hour speech on March 1 and also be available the following day to meet with any classes for discussion. It has been stipulated that he not participate in a public debate. Clodfelter added that the senate was presently seeking to secure another conservative speaker, specifically referring to syndicated columnist James J. Kilpatrick, whom he said could be booked with little trouble or expense.

Clodfelter commented on the fee for Davis, saying that the average Reynolds lecturer cost around $1,500 but that the senate had brought two speakers to the campus before without any fee. DuRant elaborated for about 15 minutes on his opposition to Davis as a paid speaker, citing a faculty poll, a statement by College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., remarks by Davis himself, and several letters from alumni, trustees, and other supporters of Davidson College.

The polling of 22 faculty members produced the following results: 13 “disapprove,” 1 “deplores,” 3 “approve,” 3 approve Davis but not the price, 2 made lengthy comments against Davis, and 2 felt that it was the business of the students to decide and not the faculty. Spencer's statement on Davis deplores the “exorbitant price” being paid to bring Davis here and calls his procurement a “concession to sensationalism.” Other letters denounced Davis and his philosophy, referring to him as “a radical criminal at large, anti-American and anti-Christ.”

DuRant urged the senate to remember its commitment to the students, pointing to the lack of publicity which characterized the former SGA decision on Davis. He added that no minutes or announcements were released by the senate and that “many students were surprised to receive my letter 1½ weeks after his selection.” DuRant concluded: “I present this to you, a senate who say they want to represent the student body, and I think that rejecting this speaker will help the image of Davidson College in the eyes of the trustees, alumni, faculty, and the students.”

In addition to the actual vote which followed, Clodfelter went on record as being against the motion. The SGA Elections Board determined the wording of the petition as it will be printed on the ballot: “The SGA senate has authorized the expenditure of $1,000 to bring Rennie Davis to speak at Davidson on March 1. Do you approve of this action? Yes No.”

The Senate Constitution and Bylaws Committee interpreted the 2/3 rule for passage of the referendum to mean that fraction of the entire student body rather than just 2/3 of those students who vote. In order to ensure a large vote on the referendum, the Residence Hall Council (RHC) will handle the election. (See SGA, Page 8)

(Staff Photo by Doty)
CLODFELTER AND ALEXANDER
Alexander (left) introduces Davis motion for DuRant.