6 "O.K. Everybody, Take Two.” She Mavihenntan

PAUL ROWLAND
February 5, 1971
Page Five

What Do You Want To Be When You Grow Up?

Last week we took a look at the farce called the Placement Interview; it’s neither a good way to get
a job nor a good way to decide which job to get. Concerned about the uncertainties of graduate admission, the
required high finance, and the paucity of the alternatives, I expressed my frustrations to Suzie Summers who heads the placement
service.

BETTER FACILITIES, CAMERA SPUR INTEREST

Student Filmmaking On Increase

By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

Student filmmaking is the coming thing on campuses all over the nation, and an improvement in facilities at Davidson College
may increase the output of movies here in the near future. Although films are not a novelty on campus, the
newly-purchased college movie camera and efforts to offer a film course at Davidson are sure to encourage prospective filmmakers.

The new camera, open to general student use for a nominal fee, has already been rented for two films. The
first students to rent the camera were George Allen, Dick Hinson, and Steve Engstrom. Hinson explained that the film, which
will include one major actor and several minor parts, was undertaken solely as “a learning experience.”

“In the framework of a documentary, we want to capture the subjective experience of an alienated individual who is trying
to communicate to others,” Hinson said. The film may run up to 45 minutes in length when completed, and it
will have a sound track dubbed in after the editing is finished. According to Hinson: “The film in general is
still regarded as a form of superfluous entertainment, but we think it is a valid art form.”

Last weekend the school camera was used again for the filming of “Dunn,” a 15-20 minute sketch of a mind
burdened by feelings of sexual guilt. Sophomore Bill Rolland is producing the film, and John Davidson is operating the camera.
Most of the shooting takes place in a local boarding house, and there may be one scene taken in the
Union Bar, according to one of the actors. Dialogue will be added to the movie, but there will be no
actual synchronization of the sound with the lip movements of the actors.

A course in film is offered presently on independent study by the Fine Arts department, which has an identical camera
to the one recently purchased for general student use. Junior Frank Soos produced a film in the Fall term under
this program. He calls it “a chain of thought film, which drifts from a stream of consciousness to isolated events
of reality in a person’s mind.” Soos said that the main character was cast as a drug user to put
the movie in a modern context. The film will be accompanied by a sound track taken from “Soft Parade” by
The Doors, but there will be no actual dialogue because of a “lack of facilities.” Editing of the film is
still in progress, but the actual length of the final product will run about 10 minutes. Soos pointed out certain
equipment problems and added that “It takes about five or six hours to get one minute of film.”

During the Winter term of last year, one studio class produced a 10-minute movie which received “honorable mention” at the
Mint Museum Film Festival in Charlotte. The movie was an animated cartoon (no title) drawn with magic marker and India
ink and captured on 16 mm film. The rock opera “Tommy” provided the soundtrack. One member of the class said,
“The movie had no theme. It consisted of cartoon images that went along with the music.”

Professor of Fine Arts Herb Jackson encourages filmmaking through his department or with the new college camera. “The more the
merrier,” Jackson said. “I'd be glad for every department on campus to sponsor anything visual.” Jackson stated that there was
a request now before the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) to introduce a film course.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

into the curriculum for next year. If the EPC clears the proposal, the course will be taught by Assistant Professor
Douglas Houchens, who is away from campus this year.

On the national scene, student filmmaking has increased dramatically. Sixty-eight colleges are providing degrees in film this year, and there
are 75 movie competitions which may be entered by student filmmakers. Thomas Fensch, author of a new book entitled "Films
on the Campus: Cinema Production in Colleges and Universities," states that instruction in movie-making "is a phenomenon not easily paralleled
in the history of American higher education. The demands for film courses and financing for equipment have come from students
instead of from university administrations." Fensch, who teaches journalism at Shippensburg State College, commented that students "have forced university officials
to hire professors to teach film courses. And when deans claim that there is no room in the college or
university budget, students have bought their own."

The National Student Film Festival, which drew 347 entries this year, will be dealing with all kinds of unconventional, experimental
films. Movies so far include everything from a 45-minute documentary called "Chicago" to a 2½-minute commentary on the nation today
called "Nth."

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that
week. All letters must be typed and double-spaced. We reserve the right to edit letters over 250 words in length.
Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.

She sent me to C. Shaw Smith, who offered three ways of looking at the problem. "Even if it’s always
been your obsession—I mean, goal—to be a doctor, lawyer, or Indian chief, you may find Smith's ideas fascinating. I did.
'What would you do if you had a million dollars?' Smith asked. Not immediately, he explained, but after a month
or so of paying off your bills, setting up your family and friends in style, not to mention a few
wild parties. In other words, what would you do if money did not matter at all? World travel, living in
Greenwich Village, working in the slums, the Peace Corps, or your own Walden—whatever your secret fantasy may be, there probably
will never be another opportunity like the present."

Smith cautioned that he did not advocate reckless abandon, but added that too many people let financial considerations force them
to work at things they're not happy doing. The second point to ponder C. Shaw offered was, "What do you
plan to do when you retire?" Some of us don’t plan to live that long. But for those that do,
Smith suggests that you retire the work. Too many people delay too much of living, planning to enjoy life when
they retire. But death is life's only guarantee. It's another matter of not knowing what you've got 'til it’s gone.

The third consideration Smith recommends is to find someone who has done something similar to what you want to do
and talk to him. Assess what kind of person he (or she) has become. What kinds of costs in lifestyle
has your model had to pay for his career choice? Most of us condemn quite harshly what we see as
amoralism, lack of compassion, and general insensitivity in business, medicine, the ministry, education, and the other professions we anticipate joining.
But how do we plan to retain our morals, our compassion, and our sensitivity?

C. Shaw Smith's three questions may not finalize your life plans, but then they aren't intended to. You may still
feel you have but three choices: work, grad school, or Uncle Sam's slavery service. And, indeed, those are your choices,
but there's little or no reason to do what you don’t want to do and plenty of good reason to
do what will make you reasonably happy.
