Che Bauidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILLIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
MARCH 26, 1971

Behind Closed Doors

A college administrator recently mentioned to us that the student movement on college campuses for more student rights and greater student power has been misguided. Rather than directing their attacks on the beleaguered college administrators, students should be combining their resources to assault the true bastion of academic power, the faculties. While we are not in complete agreement with him (the administration by no means wears white hats), we do see some merit in his words, particularly when the faculty policy of closed meetings is considered. For the faculty, even though members continue to emphasize in rhetoric the necessity for open communication between student and college, still treats the student as a second-class citizen at Davidson, excluding him from the decision-making processes that shape his life and lifestyle at Davidson.

We are not saying that students should be allowed in all faculty discussions and decisions; there are some faculty affairs that are of no concern to students. Yet it is important that students be represented at those faculty meetings where student affairs are being discussed.

Ideally, the faculty should control only the academic and educational affairs of the college, with students and administrators represented as a minority vote in faculty meetings. The administration should control only the administrative and financial affairs of the institution, with student and faculty minority representation. And college policy concerning student life should be determined ultimately by the students, with faculty and administration represented. Until such an ideal is grasped by all involved, however, each group must respect and work with the other, opening all possible lines of communication. It is unfortunate that the faculty has not yet opened its meetings to such an exchange of ideas. When the faculty, for whatever reason, isolates itself from open communication and dialogue with the student, it creates an impenetrable barrier. Therefore, if members of the college community value the personal dialogue, mutual trust, and equal responsibilities necessary in education, then they must also demonstrate the courage and willingness to practice such ideals. If these are not the goals of the college, then the pretension of “community” should end.

On Setting Sites

After years of studies and reports, the board of trustees has decided to act this year on several issues. The latest decision is that of the new library site which has been talked about for years with earlier promises of completion this summer of an operational facility. It’s nice to know that we are going to have a library where one doesn’t get lost looking for the periodicals, but the choice of the site of the present college union is not at all the obvious one.

To tear down the Ovens College Union is a particularly strange move at this time. The trustees just last fall made major changes in the social system at Davidson, resting more responsibility than ever before on the union to fulfill its role as the center for student social life. Now, for the time of construction at least, the union will be spread out across campus, one service in Hodson Hall, another in the church, others in Chambers. This hardly seems the best way in which to organize a center for campus social life. No definite commitments have been made for a future union, except for the use of the Grey Library building. The leveling of the present college union in effect adds the money invested in the building to the 3.8 million dollars which the library will cost. That’s a five million dollar plus library we’re talking about now.

The most serious implication which the new site holds is the fate of the AED report which the college received last year. The AED site, near the present Guest House, was rejected because of the number of buildings which would have to be torn down for construction, including one dormitory. The AED site did fit with the report, however. If the college were to expand to the north, including the possibility of coeducation, the AED site would be centrally located. In a very disturbing sense, the trustee committee vote signals a decision against such expansion and the possibility of coeducation in the near future.

DICK ANDERSON

Laos Incursion Proves Microcosm Of War

The South Vietnamese invasion of Laos is in a way a microcosm of the whole war. Admittedly southern Laos had been conquered by foreign invaders (the North Vietnamese, among others) and was being used by them to support another war, aggressive or not depending on one’s point of view; the legitimate government of the country was at least not averse to intervention against the invader. Yet it seems a shame that yet another country must further undergo the horrors of full-scale, modern conventional warfare on the American style, with lots of artillery and bombers and general destruction of the countryside.

It is of course possible that no civilians were still present around Sepone (or Tsepone, or Tchepone — I wish somebody would decide how to spell it), having been driven out when the North Vietnamese took the town after the Cambodian intervention last year, but in the rest of Laos it is Cambodia all over again. Cambodia was at peace until the invasion. Now the country shares in the turmoil of the rest of Indochina, for as a powerful force pushed the Communists westward,© they had no real choice but to take over more of Cambodia from the legitimate government. And because even Hanoi’s manpower resources are not unlimited, they recruited natives to take it for them, by using the well-tested techniques of the Vietnamese experience. While Laos has not in recent years been at peace, it has also not been fully at war. But with the coming of the first ARVN to southern Laos, the Pathet Lao and North Vietnamese lately began pushing back the Royal Laotian Army to get some breathing space in front of the South Vietnamese.

Now the Pathet Lao are only six miles from the royal capital of Luang Prabang, a city they have never held, and instead of the 30,000 NVA estimated to be in that country, there are now about 90,000. And as the Pathet move forward, the refugees again must move away, their problem compounded by new members. Not only the Laotians are in trouble. While our leaders want a victory, the ARVN’s slow advance has allowed the North Vietnamese-Viet Cong strategy to use manpower to extend the fighting over more area than the government forces could cover intensively enough to perform the necessary missions of counter-guerrilla war. The Laos operation plays nicely into the hands of that strategy. The government has diverted its best soldiers from the necessities of pacification to a conventional operation designed to seize an empty, foreign town. Furthermore, it committed large forces in an area far from its own main bases and right next to the enemy concentrations, which were able to move easily to the scene and outnumber the South Vietnamese forces three or four to one.

Defeat, deception, and destruction are characteristic of the Indochina conflict, but the Laos picture is completed by one more phenomenon prevalent in the American effort: military stupidity reaching out for the wrong goals in the wrong way. According to Sir Robert Thompson, a British counter-insurgency expert whose name occasionally comes up in connection with the war, one of the prime elements in the strategy has been the use of manpower to extend the fighting over more area than the government forces could cover intensively enough to perform the necessary missions of counter-guerrilla war. The Laos operation plays nicely into the hands of that strategy. The government has diverted its best soldiers from the necessities of pacification to a conventional operation designed to seize an empty, foreign town. Furthermore, it committed large forces in an area far from its own main bases and right next to the enemy concentrations, which were able to move easily to the scene and outnumber the South Vietnamese forces three or four to one.

And once again the U.S. has tried to substitute air power for infantry. I suppose we are lucky that this time only our allies are catching the short end of that stick. Actually, the American public may have won something in Laos: because it is his disaster and the deceptions are his lies, Richard Nixon may have come closer to assuring his own defeat in 1972.

BOBBY ALLEN.

Offer Still Open For Explanation

No one accepted my offer to use this space to explain the closed faculty meeting policy. Perhaps those who might have responded thought the offer showy and insincere. It was not. And I repeat it: I offer this column to anyone who wishes to explain the rationale behind the closed faculty meeting policy. The response I did receive was concerned primarily with the incident I related which happened last spring. I’m sure it’s terrible journalism to use a column to clarify your previous one, but I would like to clear up a point which apparently misled some people. I mentioned having heard some information through the door of the Baxter Davidson Room during a faculty meeting. I did not mean I pressed my ear to the door. Ran and I were sitting across the hall from the door, but were still able to hear some of what was happening inside. But the distance between my ear and the door on that May afternoon, or my flippancy (or frankness—take your pick) is secondary to this fact: Faculty meetings are closed.

In Washington, call the invasion, or incursion, (pick your term) our troops are being whipped all over the place. For instance, one battalion of 540 men took 390 casualties, which is 75 percent. Normally forty percent casualties are considered sufficient to incapacitate a unit for combat purposes. The latest news is that the North Vietnamese have blocked Highway 9, along which the ARVN must retreat to return to South Vietnam. If the northerners have managed to keep the road blocked, they could destroy all the remaining ARVN in Laos, almost 19,000 men. And that could put Vietnamization into the limbo now shared by the dodo and Barry Goldwater’s presidential hopes.

To my mind, no talk of community government is at all meaningful while college policy is made beyond closed doors.

About Rennie Davis. I’ve been following (some weeks behind since I get the Davidsonian at least a week late) the debate over allowing Rennie Davis to speak on campus. It’s all over by now. He’s been and gone and I assume the campus is still intact. Had I been sent an absentee ballot, I would have voted against having him speak at Davidson. Not because he would hurt Davidson’s reputation, not because I disagree with his stand, not because of the use to which his fee would be put, but simply because I think there are about 100 better ways to spend $1000. Call me a pro-crypto Nazi if you like, but think how much playground equipment it could buy for the kids across the tracks, think of the tutoring program it could have established, think of the equipment it could buy for the Davidson Day Care Center. With all the things we need in Davidson (the town and the college) did we really need to spend $1000 to be told what we had already heard many times before?

Opening them involves a change in the faculty constitution.