The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR FEBRUARY 12, 1971

Free Speech Defended

The controversy over the decision of the senate to invite Rennie Davis to speak on campus raises important issues of
freedom of speech and the role of the Davidson student senate. One of the chief complaints about the senate’s handling
of the Davis appearance has been the failure of the senate to ask for the opinions of the student body.
The senate is a deliberative body which serves a decision-making function. It is the function of the senate which has
been misconstrued in the current argument. The senate is not an agency for setting up referendums on each issue which
comes before it. It is legitimate for students to ask why the senators have voted for the Davis appearance and
express to the senators their feelings on the issue, but they should not expect to change the senate’s vote by
working outside the senate.

The key issue here, however, may be the ancient question of free speech. It has been objected that Davis is
a convicted criminal, that he advocates the overthrow of the United States government, and that he will be detrimental to
the reputation of the college. This is supposed to show him unfit to appear at Davidson College as a speaker.
This is one way to characterize the appearance of a man who is not typical of Davidson, Davidson College speakers,
or perhaps the mainstream of American life as a whole. But to declare him unfit to speak here is to
hide our heads in the sand and pretend that the world is a lot less complex and involved than we
sometimes read in “Newsweek” or “Time.” Davis represents an alternative lifestyle and a different perspective from which we can look
at our social institutions. To say that the government disagrees with Davis’ opinion to the point of convicting him and
the others of the “Chicago Seven” is not to say that what he has to say is not worthwhile. In
inviting Davis, the senate has finally opened up the potential of the college to raise issues and present provocative opinion.
The arguments against the appearance of Rennie Davis should not lead to a suspension of free speech on campus, a
freedom which the college has shown all too little eagerness to exercise.

Non Loco Parentis

As has happened often over the past year, Cecil Burney and his Residence Hall Council have become involved in another
controversy concerning dormitory life and regulations. Ignoring warnings that such action would only serve to re-open old wounds by leading
to a more aggressive administration policy concerning dorm visitation by women, the RHC has officially declared that the Davidson residence
halls will be open 24 hours, seven days a week to all guests of Davidson students. We support the content
of the decision, since we feel that completely open dorms are essential if the college is to function socially. Also,
it should be remembered that last year over 90 percent of the student body voted in favor of open dorms
and against any “in loco parentis” policy of the administration.

There is, however, a deeper issue involved in the RHC’s action, and it is important that it be brought into
the open. By voting to make the dormitories open to guests at all times, the RHC has come into direct
conflict with the administration, and especially with Dean of Students Will Terry. Such conflict with the administration, of course, is
not new or unusual. However, the clash will be the first major crisis that Terry has had to face as
the new dean, and hopefully the results will be different from those of past encounters. For the response by Terry
and the rest of the administration to the RHC’s decision will indicate their willingness to consider authority in the upcoming
decisions concerning possible campus governance. If Davidson does intend to stick to a concept of community government, then it should
seriously consider letting the students play a large role in determining regulations concerning their life as members of this community.
We urge the administration of the college to recognize this need for student governance when it considers the action of
the RHC.

Everybody’s Grandmother Can Find Work At College

By CECIL BURNEY

Have you ever wondered what’s wrong with Davidson? Well, Davidson College employs more than 50 of its own graduates. More
than one-fourth of the faculty are Davidson graduates. The college has 14 preachers. Many of Davidson’s employees are related to
one another. Mr. Kimbrough’s family, for example, is widely spread across the campus. Professor Richie King in the math department
is married to Mr. Kimbrough’s daughter, Mary. Mr. Kimbrough’s son Lawrence is the trust officer at the Piedmont Bank and
Trust Co., where the college stores its money. And Tish Kimbrough is Frontis Johnston's daughter, as well as secretary to
the Dean of Students. Professor King’s full name is Lunsford Richardson King. He is related to the famous Richardson family
which provided Davidson with Richardson Dormitory, Richardson Field, the Richardson Scholars program, and the Richardson Fellows program. The Richardson family
made a fortune selling Vick’s VapoRub. This is also the family of Congressman Richardson Preyer. But another interesting fact is
that Sam Spencer’s wife Ava is connected with the Richardson family, too!

In 1969, Howard Arbuckle III, a Davidson grad, was hired as Alumni Director. He is Dell Logan's nephew. Dell Logan
is Scott Woodmansee’s secretary and is the wife of Professor T. S. Logan of the chemistry department.Arbuckle’s grandfather used to
teach here. But the most complex relationship of them all is the one between H. Edmunds White, Director of Admissions,
and his brother, Professor Locke White. Both Ed and Locke are Davidson's grads. Ed White's nephew (Locke’s son) recently married
Scotty Nicholl’s daughter. And Ed White's old fraternity brother during their days together at Davidson just happens to be Bob
Currie, College Treasurer. On the surface, this may not seem so bad. But it means the Director of Admissions is
in some way related to the Chairman of the physics department, and to the Director of Student Housing, and one
of his best friends is the college treasurer.

Ed White is busily trying to be one of Sam Spencer's best friends. They play tennis frequently (Ed lets Sam
win, occasionally), and it is well known that Sam confides in Ed White more than anyone but Shaw Smith. Sam
Spencer was the “best man” at Shaw's wedding. And Shaw was the “best man” at Sam’s wedding.

Jon Fuller's wife, Carol (you may know her as “Bunny”), teaches in the Psychology Department, while he teaches political science.
Another husband-wife faculty team has found its place in the psychology department — Russ Walls and his wife. Mrs. Burts,
the wife of our Registrar, runs the Audio-Visual Department. C. W. Stacks, Director of the Laundry, has put his wife
Gertrude on the payroll in the laundry. Coach Harry Fogleman’s wife works in the library, and the wife of ROTC
teacher Robert Baggett works for Mrs. Nicholls. Scotty Nicholls, Director of Student Housing, is bookstore manager Peter Nicholls’ wife, of
course. Professor Lindsey’s wife works in the language lab. And Klaus Kleeburg's wife, Jeannie (you know her as “the silver
fox”), works with Klaus in the cafeteria.

Last, and probably least, is the fact that Sam’s minister at his church in Virginia when he ran Mary Baldwin
College was none other than Peter Hobbie’s father. And last year, Sam persuaded the faculty to give his old preacher
an honorary degree from Davidson. It is well-known that inbreeding in a family — even in one big “happy” family
like ours at Davidson — leads to idiocy and mental retardation.

Ramagli Blasts ‘Darkness Pool’

To the Editor:

Ever spend part of an hour talking to a professor, not about courses, but about education? I did, one afternoon,
with a science professor who, I feel, understands more about education than the large majority of our faculty. But why
mention such a man? Let us examine a few facts.

The man has an acute understanding of the student and his plight in college. He understands that the key to
the process must fall to the student, and not the so-called “teachers.” He understands that students have interests (mostly educational)
that they would like to pursue, if they weren't so boxed in by the present system. He has written proposals
and presented them to the EPC in hopes of providing the student with a path out of the mire of
quicksand. Though many are recommended by the EPC, few ever get off the ground, probably because of their innovativeness and
uniqueness (that is, they process), and also because they may be just a little too bold for the more “cautious”
members of the faculty.

And should one of his programs be implemented (and one of them is in operation now), it is so misinterpreted
and redone that it bears no semblance to what it was intended to be. Even in his constant disappointment, he
keeps his ideas coming in hopes of stimulating the thinking of his colleagues, who seem to never hear him.

It is about time Davidson's faculty stopped living in the Dark Ages. The faculty does not hold the key to
our education. In many instances, they bar our progress instead. Teaching is an art which few practice here. To guide
a student, to excite him, to encourage him is teaching, but the pompous action of a man allowing us the
benefit of His graciousness by imparting his knowledge is sickening. Knowledge exists everywhere in Davidson's faculty. The problem is that
there is very little wisdom present. Wisdom is something that distinguishes between the mechanical teacher and the true teacher. There
are few teachers here. This professor is truly a wise man. There are that handful of his colleagues who share
his gift. Ironically, the professor commented to me, half jokingly, and half seriously, that he would leave if he had
a better teaching offer. He is one of the few lights in this educational pool of darkness. For Davidson's sake,
I hope he stays. For his sake...

Howard Ramagli, ‘72
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The purpose of this letter is two-fold. My first intent is to clarify the inability to obtain a verifiable recount
in the SGA election of Jan. 27. I am fully responsible. My error was one of judgment, in that I
judged the lists to be an inadequate check on election results. However, I shouldn't have removed that check, even if
inadequate, until I replaced it with another. Since that election a new system has been initiated and the opportunity for
a voter to vote more than once is considerably less.

The second purpose of this letter is to thank Tom Vernon for running the computer in tabulating election results. With
no office or pay, Tom spent many hours setting up and helping to run elections. His effort deserves public acknowledgement.

Allen Peterson ‘71
Davidson College
