The Ravidsantar

DICK ANDERSON

Dual Role Hurts Dean’s Flexibility

The proposal May 14, 1971 Page Five recording to Dean of Students Will H. Tevvy, the selection process will be
from 10 p.m. until midnight on a "First come, First Served" basis, with each freshman given the opportunity to choose
three clubs that he'd like to eat with next Fall. Tevvy emphasized that if a freshman does not want to
be in a club next year, he does not have to join one and will be free of any precedents.
"The Student Life Council in fact, it was precisely this process that the presidents said. See one thing I'll say
for it, any system this confused can’t help but be nondiscriminatory.

Stones Maintain Insanity

A REVIEW By JOE EARLE

Those people who ignored the reviews and trekked out to see "Gimme Shelter" had the privilege of watching the Woodstock
Generation cut down in full color. On stage, overseeing, and trying to curtail, the tribal castration were The Rolling Stones,
the focus of the film and perhaps the only great band left from the early sixties.

The Stones maintain the insanity of old blues and rock. While other musical trends favor the subdued country-folk music of
Woody Guthrie or Jimmy Rogers, the Stones turned back to Chuck Berry. "Let It Bleed," the last recording on London
for the group, was a return to old style blues from Robert Johnson on, and their new record, on a
new label, is closer to the old rock-rhythm-and-blues of Memphis. "Sticky Fingers," the first release of Rolling Stones Records, and
produced by Jimmy Miller, late of Chess Records, is perhaps their best yet.

But even the Stones have not escaped the currents in music. "Sticky Fingers" is a very different type of endeavor
for the Stones. The old raunchiness is there. It is in Andy Warhol's (another personage of the 60's undergoing artistic
changes) cover, which is designed to offer a feeling of perversity before one ever hears the music. It is in
"Brown Sugar" and "Bitch," the two plug cuts on the radio. But the brashness, the overtones of perversity, have been
"softened." "Bitch" features a Muscle Shoals-type horn section. "Brown Sugar" is coated with saxophone. But the greatest changes are deeper
in the album.

"Wild Horses," a song debuted in "Gimme Shelter," is a pretty song that, notwithstanding references to heroin, is romantic. "Moonlight
Mile" features a string section and soft ending more reminiscent of Phil Spector and The Beatles than the Stones. "Sister
Morphine," a sort of literate "D.O.A.," sounds like Richards has been listening to Santana. This is the first time that
a Stones recording has featured long instrumental cuts like the extended guitar-sax solos of "Can't You Hear Me Knocking." And
the instrumentals throughout the record are excellent.

Group

A REVIEW By GREG GERDY

The opening performance of Martin and Sally Truss, and their friend Peter was done before the usual opening night at
Davidson; a few horny baseball players with nothing to do, a music freak or two, a DAVIDSONIAN reporter, and several
stagehands. Faced with this meager turnout, the group proceeded to please them with some of the best music heard in
the Hungry in a long time. The true pleasure of their works could have better been appreciated on a big
weekend here or in a small bar in New York as part of a nice quiet date.

The group is from Alberta in Canada and more precisely from the foothills of the Canadian Rockies. Their sound is
light and pleasant and along the lines of Gordon Lightfoot and Tom Rush when Martin is singing, and like Judy
Collins when Sally begins. The trio opened with a soft number, "Four Poster."

Perhaps the Stones are, as The New York Times suggested, merely trying to remain "relevant." Perhaps they are merely feeling
the musical growing pains that have affected...a lot of old groups. Perhaps now under their own steam they are merely
doing what they've wanted to all along. Perhaps Jimmy Miller has renovated their presentation. Whatever the reasons for the new
style presented on "Sticky Fingers," it is acceptable. This is one of the best records released this year, and the
best I've heard yet from an old group. It is a terrific record.

The idea that students and faculty would sit in judgment upon students is unfortunate, especially in the role it envisages
for the Dean of Students. Will Terry, the present dean, considers the plan that kind of Davidson district attorney unfortunate
in that, in its present form, it would not allow him sufficient leeway for the exercise of his own judgment
upon the students' individual cases. In my opinion, Dean Terry's judgment and his willingness are exemplary; it was recognition of
this fact that made him the choice for that post. The students have no reason to fear that Terry will
use his position to become some kind of avenging angel; better still, even rules which would force the avenger role
upon him might well be difficult of application. But the problem arises in the unknown nature of his successor. The
students have no surety that the next Dean will not be a Christian righteous man who would decide the morals
of the Campus need uplifting. Worse than that reasonably unlikely contingency is that the proposal vitiates the present process of
redefinition of the office of Dean of Students. It will at least be difficult for one man to be both
counselor to the students and rules enforcer. This contradictory combination eventually lost Dean Burts his effectiveness in the role.

There is a more fundamental defect in the conduct council than the foreseen part of the Dean of Students, however.
This defect is the idea that the college should consider itself to have non-educational jurisdiction over its students. The entire
thrust of judicial developments at Davidson in the last several years has been in the direction of recognizing students as
adults, with the rights and obligations of adults. The Code of Responsibility, the relative abolition of parietal rules, and the
denunciation of in loco parentis all tend toward that goal. But the principle seems not to have been established. Definition
belongs in the courts, not in the hands of other students or faculty. Their only possible rightful area is that
of educational judgments, for instance grades and honor offenses. Establishing this idea will mean that Davidson students will have to
give up some of the past, when they could count on rescue by the college in brushes with the law.
But accepting personal responsibility is part of adulthood, the privileges of which deserve exposure.

Beds, which put everyone in a pensive and reflective mood. They followed this vein throughout with some excellent renditions of
tunes by Gordon Lightfoot, a fine job on a French nursery rhyme, and the ever-popular "Mr. Bojangles." One of the
prettiest songs was sung by charming and petite Sally Truss. She was at her best singing "The Snowbird," proving that
she had a diverse range in her soft voice. Her brother Martin showed several times that he is a very
capable vocalist. Peter gave them adequate guitar and vocal support since he wasn't even on the original billing. Martin, Sally,
and Peter are a good example of the plight of the groups in the folk-rock-college-coffeehouse circuit. Their talent comes out
best when doing the works of other artists, while their own songs still retain the rough edges. Only exposure to
many varied groups can be the testing ground for them. And also unfortunately, they must maintain their confidence even after
performing before groups of less than 20. Perhaps they can be brought back next year for a chance at better
exposure. They deserve it. They are an enjoyable sound to close out this year's Hungry d, too, so save a
few moments to hear what they have to offer.

(Staff photo by Erwin)
