Page Two December 17, 1971 The Davidsonian

Influential Positions Taken By Underclassmen In Senate

By TOM BRUCE
Staff Writer

The SGA Senate meeting Dec. 8 was definitely “Freshman Night” with the underclassmen playing a central role in motions affecting the new social system, improvement of parking facilities, and the problem of replacing the Union.

Freshman Senator Bill Smith proposed a committee of the existing freshman senators to make an in-depth study of “the situation on Patterson Court.” The idea for the committee was preceded by a debate at a previous Senate meeting that revealed dissatisfaction about the friendliness of the social clubs. Freshman Class President Steve Canterbury charged that the present eating clubs were more cruel in ignoring the freshmen than the fraternities had been in selective bidding. Other freshmen senators concurred that the eating clubs are a source of tension in the class and that they should be subjected to close analysis. Smith indicated that he would circulate questionnaires to the freshman class before the Christmas recess.

Senator Robert Corlew reported that he had received initial favorable opinion from the administration about some possible new uses for accumulating traffic and parking fines. The proposals would revert funds to the Senate, after deducting operating expenses, to improve present parking facilities or in other ways “for the benefit of the entire student body.” Corlew stated that this involved a large amount of money since $2000 was collected during the first term for various violations.

Bill Lear had earlier reported the need for a “traffic and security committee” that would provide a workable comprehensive parking plan, one that would anticipate future expansion of the college. The committee would also make recommendations about the present security forces.

Senators then issued a “future of the Union” compendium of thought on possible sites for location or relocation of the Student Union. Their report stated that ten possible sites for the Union had already been rejected by college President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. While the Senate favored a location behind Belk dormitory between the laundry and Richardson dorm, the administration was toying with the idea of converting the College Guest House into a Union facility. The Senate voted that the new Union be constructed in an architectural style consistent with the twentieth century.

In other Senate action Doug Brown proposed that the Senate Executive Committee appoint two students to the Governance Committee, an important group designed to elicit trustee, administration, faculty, and student representation. From a field of six nominees, the Senate elected Rich Wilson and John Hornickel.

RHA Chairman Bill Alexander presented a list of revisions to the Residence Hall Association constitution that were passed with relative ease. The stated purpose of the changes was to make the RHA a non-enforcement organization, one that would not make rules or inflict fines. The new rules will also provide for a representative from Grey House for the assembly.

Bill Meier reported that a poll was being taken to catalog alumni sentiment on subsidized football. A committee led by Ralph Peeples is examining returned questionnaires finished by certain students picked by computer random sample.

The Senate will soon be filling vacancies on several of the area committees, vacancies which are open to all students.

JUST PLAIN FUN?

As nine inches of snow fell on the Davidson campus, on December 3 and 4, some students expressed their joy by throwing snowballs at each other and through closed windows. According to Grover C. Meetze, Jr., director of physical plant, at least 60 or more panes were broken at a cost in the neighborhood of $2 per pane.

Is Campus Governance A Democracy?

AN ANALYSIS
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

Is there something about a philosophical mind which resents authority, or is it that this brand of thinker always speaks first and loudest when his freedom is threatened? It may sound like a review, but the question is applicable to the philosophy department at Davidson, as well as to other similar departments at colleges all over the country.

The recent trustee action on the college by-laws aggravated the tension which existed between the faculty and the administration, and objections...

Advertising Manager: WHIT WHITWORTH
Assistant Copy Editor: BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY
Ass’t Sports Editor: A. W. TURNER
CHARLIE TERRELL
HOWARD BOYD
Cartoonists: J. B. FAWCETT
TERRY HIRST
STEVE BALCUM
Circulation Managers: STEVE SHEPHERD
GREG MITCHELLPhotographers: TOM CAMPBELL, FRANK ERWIN, PAUL HORWITZ, JOE RODRIGUEZ

Contributors this week: David Arant, Tom Bruce, Bob Howell, Thom Nicoll, Frank Soos, and Mike Tanner.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

From the philosophy department, along with other professors, erupted with new energy. The administrative reaction to this wave of protest has been slow and vague, but some interesting changes in the philosophy department are now within the realm of possibility.

It all started last fall at a faculty meeting. Associate Professor of Philosophy Alan B. Brinkley rose to deliver a written speech which criticized the trustees for their abuse of the faculty on several counts, to the applause of many of those present.

Since that time, the administration and trustees have decided that the recent by-laws will be open for consultation by faculty and student governance committees for any considerations which they may have to offer. But Brinkley is planning to resign. It is not official, and he has made no statement to that effect. His decision is voluntary. He has tenure. He mumbles things like “personal reasons,” or “a family decision,” but he did say at one point, “If I had thought I might be in paradise, I would not leave it.”

Associate Professor of Philosophy Earl MacCormac spoke of the characteristic steam generated by the department as “an affliction of the profession. Philosophers often believe deeply in the very principles which they teach.

“All of us,” he continued, “believe in a liberal democracy with shared responsibility. When the trustees do something without due consultation of the faculty, then we are distressed. Shall the faculty be subject to the trustees or shall it have a say in the organization of which it is a part?”

MacCormac remarked about previous discourtesies paid to the department by the administration. He said that when the department was to be moved from the first floor of Chambers to the second floor last year, the first word heard by some of the professors came in THE DAVIDSONIAN. There was no previous announcement.

“My suspicion,” MacCormac concluded, “is that we will be a three-man department if Professor Brinkley resigns. If this happens, I will have to resign from the Honors College, which I enjoy a great deal, to cope with those students working in courses toward their major.”

It may be a two-man department, however, if Instructor of Philosophy John J. Young does not have his contract with the college renewed. He has received the unanimous recommendation of the department, but so far he has not been notified by the college. The deadline for notification was Dec. 15.

Green Amendment Fails, Helps Coeducation Plans
By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

For a while this fall it appeared that a sex discrimination ban included in an omnibus higher education bill approved by the House of Representatives Committee on Education and Labor would be an impediment to Davidson's going coeducational.

Representative Edith Green, Democrat of Oregon, sponsored provisions that would have banned the use of sex as a basis for discrimination in undergraduate and graduate admissions. In addition, sex discrimination would have been banned in any other “education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.”

The House has voted this sex discrimination ban down, and this has greatly relieved Davidson's administration. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said, “At first Representative Green's amendment did enter into our coeducation plans, and it would have hampered our aims. However, now we can continue to study the question of coeducation without this amendment hanging over us.”

The only exemptions from Green's amendment would have been for “substantially” single-sex institutions, “substantially” being considered 90 percent or more, and colleges controlled by religious organizations where the non-discriminatory admissions policy would violate the group’s religious tenets. A seven-year transition period would have been allowed for colleges in the process of changing to coeducation to rid themselves of sex discrimination. The seven years would date from the time the college first began the transition.

Bevan indicated that he was pleased to see the Green amendment defeated, for this would have been another obstacle to Davidson's going coeducational. He pointed out that if Davidson decided to go coed, it would undoubtedly attempt to maintain some type of male-female ratio.

A number of campus leaders felt that Davidson was using the Green amendment as an excuse for not moving forward forthrightly on the issue of coeducation.