Page Ten May 21, 1971

Up ’n’ Coming

Friday, May 21
Alumni Weekend
8:03 p.m. Movie: “Kelly’s Heroes” Morrison Room

Saturday, May 22
10:03 p.m. Movie: “Kelly’s Heroes” Morrison Room

Sunday, May 23
3 p.m. Soccer Club, Championship Game Soccer Field
3 p.m. Picnic for International Students Morrison Room

Monday, May 24
8 p.m. Civilisation Film Love Auditorium
8:15 p.m. Stephens College Piano Duo Hodson Hall
7:30 p.m. Marx Brothers Film Festival Morrison Room

Tuesday, May 25
6 p.m. PBK Banquet Morrison Room
7 p.m. Pre-Law Extended Studies Seminar Green Room
9:30 p.m. Marx Brothers Film Festival Morrison Room

Wednesday, May 26
6:45 p.m. ODE Banquet Love Auditorium
7 p.m. Fine Film: “Fini” Morrison Room

Thursday, May 27
10 p.m. Open End: “Students Rights” Union Bar

By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

Junior Jim Winn won the first prize of $50 in the Vereen Bell Creative Writing Contest for selections from a
novella entitled Memorabilia. The award was announced Wednesday in a presentation by author Guy Owen in Thomas Perkins Auditorium at
4:00 p.m. Owen prefaced the announcement with a reading from his latest novel Journey for Joedel, which was nominated for
a Pulitzer Prize. Owen also wrote The Ballad of the Flim-Flam Man which was turned into a movie.

Second place, a $25 prize, went to Jim Gillespie for The Cabiniers. Third place went to sophomore Jeb Brown for
his short story “Between Man and Man.” Senior Mike Roth received honorable mention for his short story “Harvey.” There were
approximately 35 entries this year, with a preponderance of prose writings and very few poems. The contest is limited to
anything written, which also includes critical work. The contest is sponsored in honor of a Davidson graduate who was a
promising young writer before he lost his life in World War II. Bell was the author of Swamp Water, which
was made into a movie and can be found in the Davidsoniana Room of the college library.

Self-Select (Continued from Page 7)
Randy Henwood, David Huffine, Rick Hussian, Dennis Jay Keely, Steve LeResche, Sam McAliley, John Todd Magee, Dan Mattox, Mike Reid,
David Reid, John Scanling, Jimmy Shepherd, Charles Slagle, Samuel T. Stevenson, Craig R. Yoder, Andy Strawcutter, John Inscoe.

In other literary competition, freshman Jack Hobbs won $35 for first prize of the R. Windley Hall Writing Award for
Freshmen. Hobbs received the prize for his short story “Warm.”

1970 (Continued from Page 1)
The administration this year has been receptive to most of the resolutions passed by the student Senate. Under the presidential
leadership of Ran Coble and Danny Clodfelter, the senate pushed through self-scheduled exams and the new physical education requirements. Next
fall, under Clodfelter’s active leadership, the senate will propose the representation of students on two faculty committees, release their report
on a governance system involving a college council, and push for open faculty meetings. The Senate has been an effective
force in helping to reorder the priorities of the college.

Probably the biggest change this year at Davidson, however, was brought about by College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. In
cooperation with the trustees, Spencer proposed and instituted a system of nonselective eating clubs to replace fraternities. Of all the
changes this year, the social system issue was the most controversial but the result is difficult to analyze. One development
which the social system issue has brought to light is the wild paranoia which the students have for Spencer. Many
may agree with what he has done, but few agree with his methods. In short, the students do not trust
the president of the college. Maybe next year Spencer should try to break through.

Clinical Psychologist Hall
It now appears that Dr. Merideth Hall will again provide his services as a clinical psychologist at Davidson next year,
according to...Junior Cecil Burney and rising senior Tom Robertson have contacted numerous people to get information on hiring services. They
determined after much investigation that Hall would be the best person for the job. Burney emphasized that the hiring is
being done solely with student funds since the administration has shown no willingness to provide funds for these psychological services
for next year. He stated that Hall’s role is not to replace Dr. William G. Workman, whom the college has
engaged for counseling, but rather to augment the services offered to students. “Dr. Workman is pleased with this idea and
feels that this arrangement will give the campus a wider range of services.”

Although Hall has not been officially hired yet, he has agreed to sign a contract for next year. The extent
of his work will depend on the amount of money that can be raised. Burney stated that hopefully $6,000 will
be raised (which was the amount Hall received last year) and pointed to several sources of funds. “We have a
commitment for $1,000 in surplus funds from this year's student government budget. Monday night, the senate approved this money to
be used to hire Hall. In addition, the SGA requested $2,000 from next year’s budget be appropriated from the student
activities fee to pay for Hall's services.”

Burney said he hoped to get two or three thousand dollars more from the Union Board. He will meet with
them next Monday. One thousand dollars has also been requested from next year's budget of the Activities Grant Foundation.

To Stay On At Davidson

Hopefully, Hall will operate in three capacities, according to Burney. “He will continue the individual therapy as he did this
year, and he will also conduct group meetings of various sorts. In addition, he will possibly be used as a
part-time consultant to various student organizations.” Burney emphasized that having two psychologists “will give each man the opportunity to reflect
more intensely on the needs of students and to find ways to meet those needs.” “I am also particularly gratified
that some staff members of the college have offered to contribute funds for this project,” Burney stated.

Egg and selected poems which he submitted to the Inklings publication. Second place, a $20 prize, was awarded to Rick
Hussian for his two short stories, “The Elements” and “The Visit.”

Despite the improvements of the year, it has become clear that the various power groups on campus do not trust
each other. The students have become the champions of legalism while the faculty retreat to the warm security of the
faculty constitution. Neither group will commit itself to anything. The college may have gained very innovative men in its administration,
but it has continued to lose a sense of community. Meredith Hall, the clinical psychologist, explains that Davidson is an
asylum for very lonely people with each student trying to be one up on the other guy. Maybe the people
at this institution next year should concentrate on building trust in interpersonal relations in addition to academic innovation.

This summer the administration plans to sit down, catch its breath, and plan the future direction of the college. Maybe
the students should do the same and contemplate by what means we can bring this fragmented community back together. This
situation is so critical that a suspension of classes for one day next fall might be in order so that
the administration, faculty, and students can sit down on the front lawn and discuss not only the academic future of
the college but also the future of the community.

We have the CONVERSE Leather Coach Casual shoe in Natural, Blue, Black, and Gold. And see our New Pants: Kazoo
jeans, swimwear, knit shirts, and beach pants. Clothing and Accessories for the pace-setter.

John Hpk & Son
Mooresville, N.C.
