Page Four June 1971 The Davidsonian

Commencement: Class Of '71

Approximately 230 members of the class of '71 received their bachelor’s degrees on the front lawn of the campus June
6. Nearly 1435 family, friends, and guests attended the graduation ceremonies in the 90-degree heat. Promptly at 3 p.m., the
trumpet voluntary was played, and the audience rose as the seniors and faculty in their caps and gowns marched to
their seats.

After opening prayers, hymns, and scripture readings, the Algernon Sydney Sullivan awards were presented to student Greg Scott and Davidson
Elementary School Principal Wayne B. Roberts. The Algernon Sydney Sullivan award is given to those who demonstrate "fine spiritual qualities
practically applied to daily living." Selected by the faculty, the recipients of this award must have exhibited general citizenship and
an active and unselfish contribution to the community, said Richard C. Burts, registrar.

A hall counselor and student in the Honors College, Scott served as President of the YMCA during his senior year.
Roberts was selected for the outstanding job he has done during his tenure as principal. While other schools in the
county are experiencing problems with integration, Davidson, under the guidance of Mr. Roberts, has been operating on an integrated basis
very harmoniously, Burts said.

Following an anthem performed by the male chorus, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Warner L. Hall, College President Samuel
R. Spencer Jr., and Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan participated in the conferring of honorary degrees. A
doctor of laws, honoris causa, was presented to Wallace H. Kuralt, director of social services (welfare) for Mecklenburg County since
1945. Kuralt has been a national pioneer in such programs as birth control and day care, and this has won
Mecklenburg's welfare system considerable state and national acclaim.

A doctor of divinity, honoris causa, was presented to Herbert Meza, pastor of the Church of the Pilgrims in Washington,
D.C. "An alumnus of Davidson, Mr. Meza received recognition from the college for his fine service to humanity as a
minister," Burts said. Meza preached the Baccalaureate Sermon earlier Sunday morning.

A doctor of science, honoris causa, was awarded to Harold R. Pratt-Thomas, a pathologist and former president of the Medical
College of South Carolina in Charleston. Also an alumnus of the college, Pratt-Thomas has been active in research dealing with
lung cancer. He was one of the original group of 12 pathologists from all sections of the United States who
made a coordinated study of environmental factors concerning lung cancer.

Following the conferring of the honorary degrees, the diplomas were given to the graduating seniors. Robert S. Harris graduated first
in the class with a grade point of 4.2287. An economics major, Harris will study at Princeton next year under
a National Science Foundation Fellowship. Graduating second in the class with a grade point of 4.1141 was Ed Shoaf. Editor
of the DAVIDSONIAN, Shoaf received an Alpha Epsilon Delta Alumni Medical scholarship and a Reynolds scholarship to Bowman Gray Medical
School next year.

Both Harris and Shoaf graduated Summa Cum Laude along with Tom Opie, who will study at Cornell next year with
a National Science Foundation Fellowship, and James Trusell, who will study at Oxford. Since Opie and Trusell were students in
the Honors College, where...No letter grades are used; they were not included in the class ranking which determined the first
and second graduates of the class. Those graduating Cum Laude were: Mark Affeldt, Dick Anderson, Paul Baker, David Buck, Herb
Clegg, Harlan Day, Robert Folger, Walter Griffith, Steve Hall, Douglass Hickman, Allen Kessler, Peter Lutken, Richard Lyon, John McCammon, Edward
McGoogan, Gray Mason, Richard Morrison, Roger Peterson, Andrew Pickens, Norwood Poland, Duncan Postma, Jefferson Ritchie, Steve Roady, William Sawyer, Tim
Smith, Brian Smith, and James Wilson.

Approximately 10 seniors will graduate this summer after finishing their requirements in summer school. Many had dropped out during the
spring term in order to break their ROTC contract. The Faculty Committee on Graduate Fellowships has reported that 37 graduating
seniors have received awards for graduate study.

Marching to the graduation (from left to right) are Alexander McGeachy, Frontis W. Johnston, Scott Woodmansee, Richard Wallace, H. Kuralt,
Herbert Meza, Samuel R. Spencer Jr., S. L. Hall, and James S. Purcell.

At commissioning ceremonies for ROTC (from left: Major General George Blanchard, Scott Woodmansee, Col. Foster, and Samuel R. Spencer Jr.)
congratulate a commissioned cadet. Earlier Sunday at 11 a.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, Rev. Meza preached the Baccalaureate
Sermon. Meza spoke on the theme that the providence of God exists in the world despite everyday problems. The senior
class collected about $50 which they used to buy a calf for a needy family, according to Allen Peterson, senior
class president. “The reason we chose this as our Senior Class gift was because we felt the seniors would be
more willing to voluntarily give money to a charitable organization than to any other cause,” Peterson said.

Saturday, the day before Commencement, 63 graduating seniors were commissioned into the Army Reserves as lieutenants, according to Burts. At
a ceremony held in Love Auditorium, Major General George Blanchard of the Eighty-Second Airborne Division delivered the commissioning address to
the cadets. Approximately 27 additional seniors will be commissioned at the end of the summer after they have fulfilled their
requirements for the ROTC summer camp at Fort Bragg. Following the commissioning, a reception was held for all the graduating
seniors on the President's lawn. Over 800 parents and guests attended. That evening, the traditional male chorus concert was given
in Love Auditorium.

Over 100 members of the class of '71 will attend graduate schools next year, according to a survey conducted by
the Alumni Office. As of the end of school, 26 planned to attend law school, 26 had been accepted into
med school, six into seminary, and 41 others will attend graduate schools in various other fields. Fourteen plan to enter
the military upon receiving their diploma, while one plans to join the Peace Corps. Although many had not decided on
their plans after graduation, some have decided to go into a wide variety of occupations including a farmer, milkman, gas
station attendant, foreman for U.S. Steel, manager of a pizza parlor, a professional football player, an artist, salesman, and a
management trainee for Sears and Roebuck.
