Page Two January 29, 1971

“HELLO OUT THERE”

Al McGraw, behind bars, converses with Jule Young, the husband of the woman he has raped in a one-act play.

Social Assignment

AN ANALYSIS

A decision apparently was made this week that freshmen will no longer be randomly assigned to fraternities; instead, they will
eat with their freshman orientation group at different houses. However, neither student leaders nor highly placed administrators know who made
the decision.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said he had no knowledge of this decision, and Vice President of Academic Affairs
John M. Bevan, who chaired the Committee of 18, said he had not been informed of this decision either.

Apparently, Dean of Students Will Terry was responsible for the change; however, as of press time he was away from
campus and unavailable for comment.

SGA President Ran Coble was surprised to learn that Terry had not checked this idea with the administration. “Will said
he was going to check this change with Dr. Bevan, so maybe it will not go into effect until later."

Earlier, Terry had met with the freshman hall counselors and learned of the difficulties of the random assignment. Apparently, Terry
asked Coble to form a problem-solving committee, but the powers of this committee are unclear. This committee, composed of Coble,
Fraternity President Gary Cash, Freshman Class President Bill Ralston, and Committee of 18 member Bob Meadows, apparently advised Terry to
change the random assignment to assignment by orientation groups on the freshman hall.

Earlier, Spencer indicated to THE DAVIDSONIAN that the Student Life Committee would handle any changes.

Library Plans Set

Architects for Davidson's new library talked with college staff and faculty members this week about a site for the new
building and said they plan to make recommendations on its location by March 1.

Meanwhile, college officials report, library consultant J. Russell Bailey has begun studying the list of functional and program needs as
prepared by the Library Planning Committee and will soon begin drafting the rough plans for interior layout and traffic flow.

Chalmers G. Davidson, director of Davidson’s present library and chairman of the Library Planning Committee, said that the discussions with
architects John D. Owen and Addison Staples of the firm Clark, Nexsen and Owen of Lynchburg, Va., produced a “verbal
agreement.”

“The architects have assured us that they can have plans ready for bidding by contractors within a year’s time,” he
explained. “This will allow two months for the basic flow diagrams, two months for the preliminary schematics drawn to scale,
three months for further design development, and five months for preparing the final working plans and specifications of construction.”

Chief Associate: PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editors: DICK ANDERSON, RUSS MERRITT, JOE SMITH
Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT, DON PARMAN
Sports Editor: ERNIE SHIPE
Assistant Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD WILSON
Copy Editors: JEFF ALLENDER, STEVE CROSS, CARLA BAUTDSON
Staff News Editor: SCOTT DAVIDSON
Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE
Ass’t Sports Editors: JOE EARLE, A. W. TURNER
Cartoonists: J. B. FAWCETT, ZACK MOBLEY, CULLUM ROGERS, DARYL WILLIAMS
Circulation Managers: BRUCE PUCKETT, HOWARD RAMAGLI
Photographers: DAVE DOTY, ROGER MANLEY, SAM RAMACHANDRAN, BOB STRAND
Contributors this week: Doug Brown, Robert Touchton, Dave Tierney, Howard Boyd, Peter Michael, David Hanig, and Alec Hoon.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$7.00.

Jackson Examines Nixon

By W. E. Jackson Jr.

President Nixon in his January 24 State of the Union message presented to Congress “six great goals.” The legislative branch,
he said, could open the way to a “new American revolution” by acting favorably upon his proposals.

The first request of the President is for Congress to act upon unfinished business, especially welfare reform. The Administration program
would place a floor under the income of families with children, and also establish work incentives and requirements. This is
the most commendable idea of the President's; it has a fair chance of passage in 1971.

The second presidential goal is to achieve, through the FY 1972 budget, “full prosperity in peacetime.” Mr. Nixon will submit
an expansionary “full-employment” budget (spending as if there was full employment in the country).

The third goal is to restore and enhance the natural environment. The President promises “a strong new set of initiatives”
to fight air and water pollution and to combat noise. The Administration is still committed to the SST. He also
proposes the expansion of parks and recreation areas: “For only if we have a legacy of...Parks will the next generation
have parks to enjoy.” As a fourth goal, the President promises to offer a set of proposals for improving health
care and making it available “more fairly to more people.” Most ambitiously, he speaks of a program to ensure that
“no American family will be prevented from obtaining basic medical care by inability to pay.” It is difficult to see
what form this program will take without alienating a major source of campaign financial support for the President, the members
of the American Medical Association. But because of a competing national health insurance idea from Sen. Kennedy and the high
cost of medical care, it seems likely that the new Congress will pass legislation in this field.

The fifth goal, already generating extensive national debate, is a sharing of $16 billion in national government revenues with states
and localities. Specifically, the President would provide $5 billion in new funds, to be used as the states and localities
see fit, and $1 billion (to be taken largely from present federal grant programs) to be spent for six broad
purposes: urban development, rural development, education, transportation, job training, and law enforcement. Congressional passage will be difficult due to the
opposition of Wilbur Mills, chairman of the House Ways & Means Committee.

The sixth goal articulated by the President, and the one least likely to see the light of legislative day, is
a sweeping reorganization of the executive branch of government. This would require the reduction of the present 12 Cabinet departments.
This proposal is an impressive effort to reduce the number of departments substantially in the grip of parochial interests (e.g.,
Labor, Commerce, Interior, Agriculture).

What is wrong with the state of the union according to Richard Nixon? Part of the problem lies in the
public relations wrapping around his proposals. As James Reston has put it, “he stood on a box and talked more
about the State of Tomorrow than about the State of the Union today.” His speech was comparable to an insurance
salesman's dream of the “golden years” in which there would be no more war, inflation, unemployment, laziness, or unpaid hospital
bills.

In a substantive sense, there are two great flaws in the speech. They pertain to national priorities and the War.
In regard to priorities, I doubt that Mr. Nixon is willing or able to put the money where the needs
are, so long as Vietnam costs more than he promises the state and cities in shared revenue. There must be
money, more money, to share. The President separates the $70 billion defense budget from “revenue sharing,” and apparently believes that
he can play at Pax Americana in the world and still have all the dreams of the insurance advertisements. In
short, he is ducking the costs of his defense and foreign policies.

The state of this nation cannot be talked about entirely in domestic terms. But not once did the President mention
the Southeast Asian War. He did speak to millions of frustrated Americans in general terms: “We are going to give
you a new chance to have more to say about the decisions that affect your future — to participate in
government.” And: “The further away government is from people, the stronger government becomes and the weaker people become.” Surely the
President does not believe the people's frustrations stop at the water's edge. Yet, the recent actions in Cambodia suggest that
the Administration is rising above (or ignoring) what a great many people have already had to say.

The President pledged last June to get American ground troops out of Cambodia, and he stated “there will be no
new U.S. air or logistic support” of future South Vietnamese operations in Cambodia. The Administration also stressed that this country
was not committed to the Lon Nol government. I believe that the recent air combat operations over Cambodia flouted both
public disapproval of last spring's invasion and the Congress’ clear intent in recent legislation to avoid U.S. involvement in a
widened war. Mr. Nixon seems unable to understand that one of the things that frustrates Americans most is a war
without end and without reason, about which the people have so little say. Is the most powerful man in the
world a man who listens?

Faculty (Continued From Page 1)

themselves. It called on the administration and the trustees to work with the faculty to discover ways and establish procedures
that would ensure full and effective faculty participation in the future. Spencer responded by saying that the problem arose from
misunderstanding and what he called “honest disagreement” about procedures to be followed. Spencer referred the matter to the Governance Committee.
