Vol. LXI, No. One The Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

SEPTEMBER 10, 1971

Recurring Themes Echo As Spencer Views Year

AN ANALYSIS By RICH WILSON Managing Editor

Recurring themes of evolution, appeasement, and optimism echoed from the Love Auditorium rostrum yesterday as College President Samuel R. Spencer
Jr. addressed the academic community in his state-of-the-college speech, “Overview ‘71 & ‘72.” No devastating bombshells. No revolutionary predictions. Just
a quiet look at the year ahead. That was the tone of his remarks.

While last year's speech was marked by revolution in the social system as well as in academics, the president's speech
this year called for a rational evolution. Coeducation, predicted to be a hot issue on the campus this year, was
handled delicately. The president directed the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) to determine during the year, “the educational and economic feasibility
of coeducation.” The president further directed the EPC to elicit opinions of all the college's constituencies: students, faculty, staff, and
alumni.

Concerning intercollegiate athletics, Spencer steered a cautious course between those students critical of subsidized athletics and pennant-waving alumni. He said
that Davidson will continue the present subsidization of football until the college can determine whether the Wildcat Fund can raise
sufficient funds to continue the present football program. Davidson will also support a recommendation to the NCAA that all athletic
grants at member colleges and universities be awarded on the basis of financial need only.

The president called for continued evolution of student participation in college affairs. He mentioned that the proposal for student representation
on the Admissions Committee and on the Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee will be brought before the faculty at its
first meeting. Spencer also gave his support to opening faculty meetings to elected representatives of the student body and to
college administrative officers. “Both groups are involved in the educational process. Both have something to give as well as something
to get from participation. I hope that we faculty will seriously consider modifying the present procedures to allow attendance of
these groups,” he said.

Evolution in the academic program was also emphasized by the president. He encouraged the development of independent study programs as
well as those in foreign study. He also urged that junior year abroad students, who return to the college their
senior year, participate in a special program which would take directly into account the junior year experience. Spencer also asked
for suggestions concerning summer activities at the college. He mentioned institutes in management and South Asian Studies as well as
enrichment programs for secondary school juniors and seniors.

To soothe the wounds suffered last year by the various college constituencies, Spencer in his speech also indulged in a
form of appeasement. (See RECURRING, Page 2)

Laundry Decision

By RICH WILSON Managing Editor

A laundry poll released this week by the Student Senate reinforces the administrative decision to cut laundry services rather than
increase the present laundry fee. The poll conducted last year asked students to list, in order of preference, four laundry
alternatives. Most of the students responding to the poll said that they would rather have services cut.

ELECTION NOTICE

The following offices will be filled by election on Tuesday, Sept. 28:

Upperclass non-Senate Council

To vote in the county as a student, your parents must live within the county boundaries or you must sign
a pledge that you intend to remain in Mecklenburg County as a resident after graduation. The contention of Davidson

Mecklenburg Poll Reinforces To Cut Services

However, raising the present laundry fee to maintain services now available was placed second in preference. The third most popular
alternative was to have a complete coin-operated laundry on campus withNo laundry fee. And fourth in preference was that the
student do his own laundry except for shirts, with a proportionate decrease in the laundry fee. “Since the laundry had
a deficit of $9,000 last year, we directed Mr. Stacks to do something that would put the service on a
break-even proposition,” said Robert Currie, treasurer. Currie said that the laundry fee has remained the same for three consecutive years
which were characterized by extreme inflation. “We finally had to do something about the deficit,” he said. “Last year no
more than 20 percent of the student body used the pant pressing service,” said Director of the Laundry C. W.
Stacks. “Consequently, we retired the girl that pressed the pants and we retired the girl that handled the administrative details
of the pant service.” Stacks said he hoped that in the future an arrangement could be worked out whereby the
student would decide what laundry services he wants and thus the student would pay only for those services.

Davidson students Bo Phillips and Don Parman and William E. Jackson, assistant professor of political science, contest N.C. voter rules.
Their stance is that “home is where you find it.” Both Phillips and Parman were denied registration by the Mecklenburg
County Board of Elections on their first visits. At a Wednesday morning appeal of Executive Secretary William Culp’s decision in
the two cases, the board of elections upheld the decision not to permit registration. Speaking for the board, Mrs. Samuel
C. Hair stated, “I think that the board's position on this issue must be very clear. We must uphold the
law as it is written and interpreted for us by the state elections board. However much we may disagree with
this position philosophically, we are not in a position to change the law. That must be done on a state
or federal level.” Phillips indicated that the two had expected to be refused by the elections board at their appeal.
“We want to get the issue into the courts where the legality of the residency requirements for students may be
decided. Our statement was written to demonstrate that it is not our intention to be residents of Mecklenburg County after
graduation. We want to vote as students who spend four years in Davidson.” In their prepared statement, Phillips and Parman
called the required oath of intent “discriminatory” and refused to sign it. The next step is the courts where Common
Cause, a populist lobby, will underwrite court costs. The Davidson case will be one of several in the state of
North Carolina. Other key tests are being pressed in Greenville, Chapel Hill, and Raleigh. Jackson had earlier involved Jerry Dean,
a 1971 graduate, in a similar test last spring, but the case was dropped when no money for legal fees
was available. If the case is decided in favor of the students, it can have heavy repercussions in areas like
Davidson and Chapel Hill where a significant proportion of the eligible voters would be students.

Quips & Cranks To Arrive Oct. 10
ROBERT TOUCHTON
Asst. Managing Editor

Last year's Quips and Cranks, the Davidson yearbook that never came, should be available about Oct. 10, according to Ronnie
Conoley, last year's business manager. The publishers, the American Yearbook Company, plan to ship the volume on Oct. 2. Copies
will be mailed directly to graduated seniors. Conoley explained that he had been working all summer to get the yearbook,
but that about 60 pages had been lost in the mail late last spring, necessitating their redoing.
