Library Site Announced

The Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees, in joint session with the Trustee Building and Grounds Committee, voted yesterday
to recommend to the Board of Trustees that the new library be built directly behind Chambers at the site presently
occupied by the College Union. The library will be a three-story structure with 100,000 square feet of floor space (approximately
the size of Chambers). The total estimated cost, according to the architect, will be $3.8 million.

If the trustees approve this site at their meeting on May 13-14, the architects will proceed to draw up plans
for the building, and the administration will proceed with plans for fund-raising and financing. The College Union will be torn
down and replaced with the new library; however, no definite plans were made by these committees for the relocation of
union facilities.

Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith submitted to the trustee committees a report of alternative suggestions for union
space and programs. The report suggested that the General Feeding Food Service could be relocated in Chambers Banquet Hall or
possibly distributed around the fraternity houses. The bookstore, according to the report, might be moved to a building in the
town, and the game room would be located either in Chambers Banquet Hall or in any empty fraternity houses. Movies
now shown in the Morrison Room could be relocated in Perkins Auditorium and Hodson Hall, or "a possible alternative would
be to set up a mini movie theater downtown," the report said. Live entertainment such as the Hungry I could
be held in Chambers Dining Hall, while small coffee-house events could be handled in the fraternity houses or dormitory lounges.

The trustee committees did discuss the possibility of converting the vacated library into the College Union. The idea of building
a new College Union was not discussed. Spencer, however, did commit to THE DAVIDSONIAN that "in some way student activities
will be brought together."

Concerning the financing of the new library, C. David Cornell, vice president of finance and development, told the trustees that
the college presently has $2 million in cash, and that another $1.8 million would have to be raised. Some trustees
questioned whether the college could raise this amount of money; however, Cornell suggested possible plans by which the college could
raise these funds. "We can mount a capital campaign this fall," he said. "There is an outside possibility there may
be funds available from the federal government earmarked for library construction. Or we may be able to get general federal
funds."

Spencer noted to the trustees that plans must be completed for the library before the college can apply for government
funds. The architects told the trustees that this particular site was selected because it is centrally located as an academic
center and is the best alternative "as far as convenience, accessibility, and appearance is concerned." The library will be able
to accommodate more than 500,000 volumes, and it will provide reader space for at least 600-700 students.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
March 26, 1971

(Photo by Lyle)

TERRY AND THE SENATE: Dean of Students Will H. Terry explains code in the new social system.

College May Allow Early Self-Selection

By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

Dean of Students Will Terry hinted to the student Senate Wednesday that the administration may allow freshmen to self-select into
an eating club sometime in May. Invited to the Senate to answer questions on the status of random assignment, Terry
said he may discuss the self-selection alternative with the Student Life Committee in the near future.

"This alternative may relieve the tension and anxiety among the freshmen and relieve the financial burden as well," said Terry.
Another reason for this diversion from the Committee of Eighteen Report, according to Terry, was that during the winter term
freshmen were allowed to eat at the union if they preferred not to eat at their assigned house. However, the
business office received a bill for the winter term of $5000 for meals which students ate at the Union instead
of at their assigned house. Terry also hinted that...Another provision might be made for those freshmen who are not interested
in participating in the social system. A motion was then defeated that would have allowed freshmen to choose whether they
want to eat solely at the union, solely at the assigned house, or at both places. Vice President of Academic
Affairs John M. Bevan, also invited to the meeting, notified the Senate that the Physical Education Department has been given
until May 24 by the Educational Policy Committee to formulate a proposal of reform in the physical education program. Bevan
assured the Senate that different options are presently being considered.

Peace Coalition
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

The Davidson Peace Coalition kicked off operations this week with several organizational meetings to plan campus involvement in the May
Day spring offensive against the Vietnam War. Spearheaded by junior Mark Meza, the group officially adopted a charter Thursday night.
Plans include correlated spring activities at Davidson and a trip to Washington, D.C. for the first weekend in May.

“We've got a lot of things in the fire right now,” Meza said. “We want the work we're doing to
be broader than just one week in May, namely a legitimate organization recognized on campus and open to the Davidson
community.” The coalition is tentatively planning activities such as a film on Laos, posters, handouts, the sale of buttons, a
phone service, and a speaker program for assemblies at local high schools. Meza said that the group will work in
conjunction with the National Peace Action Coalition, Quaker groups, Vietnam veteran groups against the war, and other local city, college,
and high school groups.

Immediate plans include a commemorative community activity in honor of Martin Luther King Jr. during the first week in April.
Meza said he has talked with Davidson Mayor Tom Sadler about such an event. According to Meza, “The group is
interested in correlating some kind of activity on the race issue here at Davidson.” Meza added that he hoped some
academic arrangements could be made to permit students to take time off from the regular workload (May 1-5). “We're going
to request that the faculty release students from all academic requirements, and if this is impossible then we are going
to ask to be allowed to postpone the work, to be made up before or after the activities.”

Sophomore Ralph Peeples predicted that forty or fifty Davidson students will be in Washington for May Day but that no
collective action is planned among them. “This is going to be an individual thing,” he said. “Nobody from here is
pushing anything but nonviolence, and everybody can choose how he wants to express himself in his own way.” Approximately 450,000
students are expected to be in Washington this year for the anti-war activities, which include a march on the Capitol
(May 5), the presentation of the People’s Peace Treaty, and continuous sit-ins during the first week in May.

SRN News Editor Alec Hoon has a few outside perspectives on the national scene on Page 2. David Wells and
Doug Haynes have a feature story on Page 3.

However, he wanted to wait for Director of Athletics and Physical Education Tom Scott to return from the NCAA Basketball
Tournament before a decision is made. When asked what effect a boycott of physical education would have, Bevan said, “I
don’t think a boycott is too meaningful. In fact, I think it would hurt you more than it would help
you.”

Many senators expressed fear that the faculty would be slow to react on the physical education issue. However, Bevan assured
the Senate that “there is no intention of dragging feet. I will do everything I can to get the materials
and present them to the EPC as soon as I can. But I cannot predict what action they will take,”
he said.

The Senate then passed a resolution to defer a decision on the physical education boycott until the faculty has made
a decision on the issue. In other Senate action, a resolution was passed unanimously that the continental breakfast be extended
to 10:20 a.m. five days a week. Doug Haynes plans to present this resolution to the cafeteria service.
