cd = Che Davidsonian

“WHAT WE HAVE HERE IS A FAILURE TO COMMUNICATE.”
—C. H. Luke

LAMPOON ISSUE

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR DECEMBER 17, 1971

For Want Of A Woman

It is a rare pleasure to agree so completely with our warm and close friends in the administration on a decision concerning student life, particularly one as important as the coeducation issue. We wish to express our complete agreement with the proposal which President Spencer has presented to the Board of Trustees and urge them to immediately ratify that plan.

We would also urge that the administration not permit the arguments posed by Treasurer Robert Arrowood Currie to act as detriments to the implementation beyond their value as sage economic advice. We realize, along with Currie, that money is a very important consideration, but we feel that the major issue of finance in coeducation has been settled by Vice-President Cornell. Currie’s objections do seem to be rather petty in some senses. We think all of us realize that this will mean more postage in sending out bills to all of the students, but this is only to be expected when you increase the size of the student body. It is also true, but rather trivial, to point out that electrical bills will be higher with the increased enrollment and coeducation. Currie’s third major argument against coeducation also seems to fall in the class of the trivial. Although statistical data does point to a higher incidence of left-handers among women, we do not think that this necessarily means a major expense in purchasing left-handed desks. We appreciate the treasurer's concern for the financial well-being of the college, but we do not believe in all seriousness that these are sufficient grounds for killing coeducation.

CURRIE ... Coed killer

A Note Of Thanks

For many weeks and months now we, along with our many journalistic predecessors, have griped and complained and bitched about the state of things at Davidson College. We've criticized the administration, hounded the faculty, confronted the students, and ridiculed the trustees. In this issue, however, we would like to take a different stance, and express our thanks to the many people who have helped us to continue to put out a newspaper high in literary quality, high in news content, and high in spirit and soul.

First, we should recognize the student Senate, without which we would not have had several hundreds of inches of filler copy and many intriguing pictures for our creative caption-writers. At this same time, we should mention our particular gratitude to SGA President Danny Clodfelter, who has been both a reliable leak and source of numerous stories a week.

Next, the Davidson administration, with its inspirational leadership deserves our appreciation. The various travelogues of administrators, entertaining records of their dealings with students, and the invigorating running account of their battle with the budget have graced these pages often.

Third, we would like to thank the athletic department, and especially the football team, for refraining from swamping our sports pages with countless success stories, balancing the joy of victory (soccer) with the agony of defeat (football) admirably.

Finally, we thank Samuel R. Spencer Jr., the hard-working president of Davidson, for captaining a ship so full of leaks that deserve our reporting and comments. As journalists, we respect Spencer for his many gifts of never-ending copy. Davidson, thank you for everything.

CECIL BURNEY

Some Things We Can Do To Save Our Dear School

Several weeks ago I wrote in this column about a trustee of this college who told me that I was a communist for opposing compulsory R.O.T.C. and that alcohol is the devil in liquid form. Well, I've thought about it a bit, and now I know that I WAS WRONG, AND HE WAS RIGHT. I have done a lot of serious thinking and praying, and I've reformed my life. Now I think the following things should be done right away to save our school:

1. We must get rid of all those lazy peace freaks on this campus and bring back compulsory R.O.T.C. It's good training for leadership, and it’s the right thing to do for our country.
2. We should clear out all the booze and the drugs. They are agents of the devil and should be dealt with as such. Anyone found taking marijuana should be kicked out of school.and sent to prison. 

3. Seminars and Independent Study courses are communist plots to keep people from learning anything. They must go. The art department should close down. 

4. The college should hire Ralph Johnson immediately to come over here and give everybody on campus a good haircut and a clean shave. 

5. Communists are at work everywhere on this campus. Co-education is a communist plot designed to subvert the morals of our students. The girls in Grey House should be sent home before something terrible happens. 

6. There are even communists working for THE DAVIDSONIAN who write obscene words in articles and columns. They should be kicked out of school. They are corrupting the minds of gentlemen. 

7. The Admissions Office should stop letting in those lazy minority students and start looking for more soldiers, preachers, and other repressed phallic narcissists. 

8. Most important of all is that this college ought to stop pussyfooting around and come right to the heart of the matter: JESUS! This goes for those weak-headed faculty members as well as all students who have gotten soft on the devil. They should be required to go to church, to support our football team, and to tithe 10% of their money to the church for evangelism. Our fight at Davidson will be a hard one. The devil is quite an enemy. That's D-E-V-I-L, devil. If you take away the “D” in “DEVIL”, you have “EVIL”, and that's what he is. When you take away the “E” you get “VIL”, and vile is what he is. If you take away the “V” you get “IL”, and ill is what we all are when he works on us. And if you take away the “I” you get “L”, and hell is where we're all going to go if we don't straighten up right now. The biggest problem here is that too many students are having too much fun. What we need is a lot more religion and a whole lot less rock-and-roll. Wake up Davidson! Wake up to the truth! Wake up to the real life and straighten out your evil ways. Let's clear out all those radical-libs and bring Billy Graham here right now. Let's bring CHRIST to our campus. Davidson—Love it or LEAVE it. My Country—Right or Wrong! Richard Nixon in ‘72. Sam Spencer in '76.

Veteran Survives Exam Warfare

When I finally came to I found myself on a cot in the makeshift hospital located in the handball courts of Johnston Gym. The air was stale and hot and all around me were my fellow students, some groaning, some still unconscious, some definitely in worse condition than others. The morning's battle had been hot and heavy and now, in the distance, the enemy's artillery could be heard as it began to open fire again. I glanced at my watch; it was two o'clock. Memory was returning and once again I paled at the horror of what I had faced that very morning. I pulled myself together. I knew I would pull through. I was a veteran. I knew I could face what I had faced many times before. After all, I suffered only from superficial dip wounds. Those who had taken more serious injuries such as essay wounds and trick true-false wounds were kept in the intensive care handball courts so as not to disturb those of us who could recover. As usual, the Freshmen had been hit hardest. The first-year Humanities department had opened fire with their secret fifty-point detailed discussion of the Battle of Qarqar. There was little hope for survivors. Just twenty more weeks. I had counted them over and over again. Twenty more weeks and I'd be sent home with honor. A sheepskin and a handshake and my tour of duty would end. I knew what to expect during the remaining twenty or so weeks. Because of my wounds, I'd be sent home to recuperate during a week of R and R. After the leave, I'd have to come back to the front and face occasional light skirmishes for ten weeks or so followed by full-scale war again for three or four days. After that, the pattern would repeat itself one more time. At least I finally knew what to expect. I knew basically the way to approach the weeks to come. It looked like I'd make it. Education is Hell.