Page Eight

Friday, September 24
8:30 pm Hu
9:45 pm Hunters

Saturday, September 25
8:30 pm Hungry
9:45 pm Hungry

Sunday, September 26
4:00 pm Lawn Concert

Monday, September 27
10:00 am Piedmont Visiting: Dr. Raymond

Tuesday, September 28
8:00 pm Fine Film
8:05 pm Movie: Prime of Miss Jean Brodie

Wednesday, September 29
All day Art Exhibit: Anne
All day Art Exhibit: Herb
10:00 am D Club Meeting
10:00 pm SGA Serenade

Friday, October 1
4:00 pm

Saturday, October 2
2:00 pm Football
2:00 pm Freshman Football
8:05 pm Movie: Prime of Miss Jean Brodie

September 24, 1971

The Madisonian

Up ‘n’ Coming

Morrison Room
Morrison Room
Morrison Room
Morrison Room
Quadrangle
Dana Auditorium
Room to Love
Morrison
Stowe Gallery
Russell
Morrison Room
Morrison Room
Blue Room
Here in Charlotte
Kannapolis
Morrison Room

College, Senate To Provide Two Clinical Psychologists

By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

This fall both the College and the Student Government Association (SGA) will provide the student body with the clinical counseling services of a psychologist. Last spring Dr. William G. Workman, head of the Psychology Department, was authorized to become the clinical psychologist for the coming year. Workman's functions will be divided equally between his teaching duties as a professor and as the College psychologist.

“Actually there will be no terminal point which will rigidly mark off one duty from the other,” said Workman. The SGA has announced that Dr. Meredith Hall, last year’s clinical psychologist for the College, will be employed to provide services to the students. Hall will be paid by a $3,000

YMCA Extends Fund Drive

By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

The YMCA fund drive, held last week, will “probably be extended one day—Tuesday of next week,” according to YMCA vice president Larry Duncan. Duncan listed two reasons for the extension of the drive: “We want to cover the freshmen that we missed in last week's drive, and we need to contact the faculty members and get their contributions,” he said. Duncan said that about $1400 was collected in last week's drive, but that nearly another $1000 was needed for funding this year’s programs.

“I hope that we can end up with a total of about $2400,” said Duncan. “If we reach this goal we'll be in good shape.” Duncan said that the money collected by the YMCA will be applied mostly to three projects in the college community. These three projects are the YMCA youth center in Davidson for underprivileged children; the draft counseling program sponsored by the YMCA; and the Task Force project which helps students finance

Coeducation (Continued From Page 1)

successful coeducation program,” he said. According to Bevan, the two most viable alternatives to coeducation are either to build a women's college on the north campus and have coed classes, or to expand dormitory facilities and have one campus which is coed.

“Anyone who says that Davidson's academic program won't attract women is merely expressing his own masculine ego,” he said. “College life is a big adjustment for any student coming out of high school,” Bevan said. “But to enter a situation with few women present is an even bigger adjustment.”

Duncan said he felt that there was a lack of understanding among the students concerning the YMCA's programs, and that this made fund-raising harder than it should be.

“I think if students realized that our programs help people both in thebe more community impous, they “a lot of Davidson pretend to be socially motivated, but they ate money to help people. Students refuse to donate. The students should demonstrate motivation with action instead of words.” Duncan also pointed out that any extra money collected by the YMCA would be donated at the end of the year to some charitable organization, “such as a mental health organization,” Duncan said he feels that.

Main St. Mooresville 664-5141

LITTLE BIG MAN
THE LAST REBEL
DUSTIN HOFFMAN
JOE NAMATH
Fri.-Sat., Sept. 24-25
Sun.-Tues., Sept. 26-28
Fri.—7:00, 9:27 p.m.
Sat. All Day
ALL SEATS $1.00
Sun.—2:00, 8:15 p.m.
Mon.-Tues.—7:45 p.m.

DEAL'S RESTAURANT AND GRILL
663-4141
4 Miles North of Davidson
Steaks — 6 a.m.
Seafood — Plate Lunches
Sandwiches ‘til Midnight
Closed Monday

Brandeis University
The Jerusalem
Jacob Hiatt Institute
Study centered in
SPRING SEMESTER - ISRAEL
February-June, 1972
Limited to 30 students
Juniors, Seniors, and Grad students eligible.
Earn 16 credits
For Humanities Students
Four courses: History, Literature, Archaeology, Bible
Knowledge of Hebrew or Arabic preferred
Cost: $2000 Tuition, room, board, round-trip travel
Application deadline October 1st.
THE HIATT INSTITUTE
Brandeis University
Waltham, Massachusetts 02154

SGA and another one for the amount of $1,000 from the Union Board. Funds have not been acquired for the entire $2,500 appropriation from the Hall to pay for the year, and another is needed to supplement his salary. A tentative schedule for Workman has been released, subject to change after a trial period. In the morning, Workman will have appointments between 7:00 a.m. and 9:50 a.m., and he will be available for emergency appointments between 10:00 and 10:50 a.m. These hours do not apply to Wednesday. In the afternoons of Monday, Tuesday, and Friday, Workman will have consultations between 1:00 p.m. and 2:50 p.m. Appointments also will be scheduled between 3:00 p.m. and 3:50 p.m. and between 4:00 p.m. and 4:50 p.m.

Senior class senator Cecil Burney has served as coordinator of the SGA’s efforts, and he feels that the student counseling service is really effective. “Hall will be doing group counseling and encounter group work in addition to individual counseling. It is presently planned that four hours per week will be spent on individual consultations. We will be doing a great deal of group work because it is more economical than individual counseling, and we hope to have some of them coed,” said Burney.

“Since Hall will be hired by students, I believe that the counseling program will be more flexible and have fewer restrictions,” he commented.

Dr. Meredith Hall will be available for individual counseling on Tuesday night between the hours of 6:15 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. in the basement of Chambers. There will be five marathon groups between now and December. Dean of Students Will H. Terry said, “I applaud the move on the part of the SGA in obtaining the services of Hall. We need $20,000 to set up a counseling service. The service is poorly funded.”

GROCERIES, BEER, WINE AND PICNIC SUPPLIES
7:00-5:30 Mon., Tues., Thur., Sat.
7:00 - 1:00 Wed.
7:00 - 6:00 Fri.
1:30-7:30 Sun.

NOW: Don’t worry anymore about typing errors!
ERRORITE™ CORRECTION RIBBON FOR ALL MACHINES HAVING RED/BLACK RIBBON SELECTION
ERRORITE™ is a quality nylon typewriter ribbon featuring a built-in error corrector. ERRORITE™ eliminates the need to purchase ribbon and correction aids separately. ERRORITE™ is always in position to make quick, clean corrections ... no more fussing with separate paper or fluid correctors. Purchase ERRORITE™ at your bookstore.
FILMON PROCESS CORP., 653-659 Eleventh Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10036