Page Two

AN ANALYSIS
By MIKE TANNER
Staff Writer

Should the Davidson College student government belong to a financially unstable, politically oriented national association of student governments, even though
the association offers services, including an information center and the opportunity for contact with other student leaders, which could prove
very valuable to its members?

October 22, 1971

Next Tuesday, the Davidson College student body will decide through referendum whether or not this hotly disputed national association will
be allowed on campus.

The National Student Association (NSA) was founded in 1937 to represent American students in various international student conferences. The association
was founded primarily to offset the large and impressive delegations sent to these conferences by the communist bloc countries. Since
its beginning, the NSA (funded by the CIA until 1967) has had a history of internal confusion, which was brought
to a head in 1967 when the SDS faction of the association, which had been in control since the early
1960s, broke away. At present, NSA, which the Davidson student government joined on a temporary basis in September 1970 and
more recently, in January 1971, as a full member, is struggling to get back on its feet financially. Soon after
its split with the CIA, the NSA found itself in debt to the tune of $500,000. This was due almost
entirely to poor management, but since that time the association has been steadily alleviating this debt, and at present is
$60,000 in the red. This sum is expected to be paid by mid-1972, according to NSA officials. The association now
funds itself primarily through personal donations but does accept a limited amount of federal money for specific projects. Under NSA
by-laws, member schools are not liable for payment of any debts of the association.

According to Student Body President Danny Clodfelter, affiliation with NSA, while not mandatory for efficient student government, does have its
advantages. NSA members are allowed reduced rates.

PROPOSED E. H. LITTLE LIBRARY
Architects Reveal Library

Davidson College's library planning committee revealed its proposals yesterday for the exterior and interior design of the $4 million E.
H. Little Library, which will be built beginning in June 1972. Plans call for the building to extend 178 feet
from north to south and to contain 81,000 square feet of floor space. It will be located east of the
main classroom building, Chambers, on the site presently occupied by the College Union. The two buildings will thus form an
academic center for the campus. The library will be three stories high, with the top two stories visible from the
front and all three visible from the rear. It will be built on land sloping eastward so that the main
floor will be in the center, or ground level, when entered from the main entrance on the side nearest Chambers
Building. The building's exterior will have Georgian and neoclassical architectural features described by library officials as "simple but elegant, and
entirely harmonious with other campus buildings." A prominent feature of the front will be an arcade along the main floor,
formed by an extension of the roof for 14 feet forward. The Davidsonian

Staff

Associate Editors:
ROSSY ALLEN
HOWARD RANAGLZ

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON

News Editor:
DAVID HANTS

Sports Editor:
JOE SARP

Assistant Managing Editors:
TOM BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON
ALEC BOON

Copy Editors:
BOBBIE BLACKWOOD
JAMES ENNA

Published weekly by Davidson College during the academic year.

Advertising Manager:
WHIT B. RITA CATE

Assistant Copy Editor:

On each half of the front side will be five arches, each revealing a window 15 feet behind it. The
rear will have a matching row of windows, but they will not be recessed. The far ends of the front
will be extended slightly forward, each with a covered entrance on the second story. The library will have a capacity
of 225,000 volumes, with some expansion space preserved. The trees will be preserved, and a large statue according to the
main floor. The top.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

On various publications that the association distributes, NSA also operates an information center which any member student government may utilize.
Students whose government design the present College Union will be razed as soon as the college year ends in May
1972, with library construction to begin June 1. It is to be completed and occupied by the fall of 1974.
The building is named in honor of E. H. Little, a native of Mecklenburg County, former President and chairman of
the board of the Colgate Palmolive Co. and for many years a benefactor of the college. His challenge gift of
$500,000 provided the impetus for the college to raise funds for the building.

Students who belong to the NSA are entitled to reduced-rate insurance policies arranged through the NSA insurance trust, which is
underwritten by the American Health & Life Insurance Company of New York. However, Clodfelter sees the contact with student leaders
from other schools at annual congresses as the key advantage to be had through affiliation. Bob Morey, president of Young
Republicans here on campus, stated that despite the services offered by the association, he felt that the key issue (and
his primary objection) was NSA’s political orientation. He felt that inasmuch as the association is a leftist organization, the student
government of Davidson College has no right to affiliate the student body wholesale with one trend of political thought. Morey
also added that the services offered by NSA were not up to the standards of those same services obtained elsewhere.
He cited as an example the insurance policy program which he felt ran a poor second to the quality of
protection currently offered by the Prudential Life Insurance Company.

Students will decide the issue through the referendum which will be held next Tuesday, the 26th. The bill will read:
“In January of 1971 the student senate voted to affiliate with the National Student Association. This association is currently in
force. Do you approve of the senate action?” (yes or no). A “yes” vote for the NSA referendum is for
sustaining the senate action. A “no” ballot is for negation of the senate action and termination of the NSA affiliation.
A “no” vote by two-thirds of the student body is required to overturn the senate’s action.

Spencer To Travel To India In Nov.
By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. will fly to India early in November to finalize plans for the Davidson-Baroda University
Exchange Program. Accompanying Spencer will be Professor T. H. Gaige, instructor in Asian Studies and the principal coordinator for Davidson's
half of the program. “Dr. Gaige is really the one who will arrange the final details,” said Spencer. “I am
just going along because the vice chancellor of Baroda, Mr. Vakil, will be dealing personally with the matter, and they
would consider it an insult if anyone less than the head of Davidson College came to sign the necessary papers.”
Spencer pointed out that the vice chancellor of an Indian university is the equivalent to the president of an American
college.

The ten-day trip will include three major stops on the Indian subcontinent. First will be the stop at Baroda, where,
according to Spencer, “we will look over the university and get to know the faculty.” Then Spencer plans a short
visit to Poona, where he will visit Davidson English professor Frank Bliss, who is on sabbatical this year. Lastly, Spencer
and Gaige will journey to New Delhi, the Indian capital, for what Spencer called the “final stage in the approval
of the program.”

“We have approved the exchange, and Baroda has approved it,” said Spencer. “Now it has to be approved by the
Indian Government. We have to make a presentation to their Ministry of Education, but I foresee no problems other than
those which might be encountered by going through the normal channels,” said Spencer. “If they sanction the program before Christmas,
then we will have a chance to let the students know about it in time for the program to start
next September,” said Spencer.
