Cornell Analyzes Finance Aspects
By ED SHOAF
Editor-in-Chief

Having had about a week to orient himself to the Davidson community, C. David Cornell sat down with THE DAVIDSONIAN and WDAV last Wednesday to discuss his recent selection as Davidson's vice president for finance and development. During the interview, he discussed such issues as rising catalogue costs for Davidson students, the Presbyterian Church, coeducation, and critics of present college change as they relate to fundraising for Davidson.

Before responding to student questions, Cornell discussed his role at Davidson with primary emphasis on this school as an actual and potential leader in innovative educational reform. Cornell said he felt his position would be enhanced by Davidson's fine educational reputation. He noted in agreement with an article in this week's Chronicle of Higher Education that private colleges are currently the leaders in meaningful educational experimentation and that this type of creative atmosphere is the type favored by those controlling large foundation grants.

Cornell also said that the administrative integration of finance and development at Davidson represents a significant positive step in meeting financial problems in the financially depressed economy. “In bringing these two elements together at Davidson," he said, "we have a chance to prove to our own constituency that the two elements can be brought together. I would hope that we have in Davidson a model."

Cornell also stressed that he saw his purpose as "a support mission supporting the academic programs of the college. Its only reason for existing is to work on and support the academic area."

Turning to student questions, Cornell commented on the rising costs of tuition and fees as they related to his work in finances. “Generally speaking, throughout the country, I don't see any slowdown in the rise in tuition. Rising tuition is all right as long as you plow money back into student aid,” he said. Cornell stated Davidson was fortunate in having a good balance between expenses paid for from endowment and tuition.

As for Davidson's financial relationship with the Presbyterian Church, Cornell said, “I think the contact of the church is more than financial. The other things we gain from association with the church are very important."

(See CORNELL, Page 10)

Frank L. Jackson
Former Treasurer Dies

Frank L. Jackson, treasurer and business manager of Davidson College for 38 years and mayor of the town of Davidson for 18 years, died Tuesday morning in a Durham hospital. He was 88. He was buried yesterday in the college cemetery following a funeral in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

"Cash" Jackson, as he was affectionately called by the hundreds of Davidson students whom he knew, was one of the first certified public accountants in Carolina (License No. 25) and was active in many levels of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. He became treasurer and business manager of the Mountain Retreat Association (Montreat) in 1909 for four years, and he served in the same capacity at Davidson during 1913-51. Shortly after he retired from the college, he was elected mayor of Davidson, a position he held until 1969. During 1967-59 he was acting president of the Montreat association, and for more than 30 years he served as clerk of the session of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

During 1937-39 he was national president of Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity and was also a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the Kappa Alpha Order. He received an LL.D degree from King College, Bristol, Tenn., and Davidson College named its first fraternity court after him. When he retired from the college in 1951, a faculty citation read: "A balanced budget has been his fetish. Somehow, he has always managed to accomplish the same — in peace or war, in depression or inflation. We hasten to add, however, that Jackson's contributions to the life of the college are by no means restricted to the monetary. But, be it said that first of all, Jackson gave his own life to Davidson, with the inner loyalty of his heart."

CONOLEY — Three students, Ron Conoley, Bill Lattimore, and Zack Mobley, have filed to run for editor of the Quips and Cranks. Although the SGA Senate is planning a study of the feasibility of continuing the annual, the Publications Board has tentatively agreed that the Quips and Cranks...

Eating Proposal Probed
AN ANALYSIS
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Is it legally defensible for a fraternity to eat as a group off campus? A challenge may be developing for next year as several fraternities consider the desirability of maintaining dining facilities off campus. Housing committees have been organized in some of the fraternities, and legal loopholes are among the alternatives to the new social program which are being discussed. In the trustees’ decision last October on campus...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"All these things, Davidson will ever be grateful."

Section 7 plainly states: "Any fraternity which wishes to leave Patterson Court and have its meetings elsewhere may do so, so long as its meeting place does not include the operation of living or dining facilities."

According to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., this section was the only stipulation added by the trustees in "committee discussion" of the original proposal. Spencer added that there have been problems in the past over dining facilities when fraternities were off campus, but that the situation was remedied with the completion of Patterson Court in 1958.

Vice-president for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan suggested that a modified social system with on and off-campus dining might not be economically feasible if some fraternity houses were left vacant on the court. Bevan said, "I believe that small student group living is extremely important here and nobody should be denied. It is one of the best things we have.

"But if they eat off campus as a fraternity group of Davidson College, it is a challenge to the Board of Trustees' action. We have to accept the challenge. If they test it, we'll test it. There is no other alternative."

Just last year 20 "individuals," nationals who left the Sigma Chi house when it voted to become a local chapter, maintained dining facilities in a local boarding house in full knowledge of the administration.

There have been several legal precedents set in regard to in loco parentis suits filed by fraternal organizations against a college. The most popular court battle occurred in September 1881 when Delta Delta Chapter of Sigma Chi challenged Purdue University over the fraternity issue. College President Emerson E. White, backed by the faculty, had refused to enroll "any student who associated himself with any of the activities of a fraternity." A test case developed when a fraternity member who left college in the preceding year applied for readmission in the fall. He was rejected because of his fraternity status. On June 21, 1882, the Indiana Supreme Court upheld the lawsuit, stating that "the faculty has no right to bar anyone from classes on the fraternity issue."

SGA Presidential Elections (Continued from Page 1)

Trustees, I think the social system should be reevaluated by the senate." Delk favors students participating in an advisory capacity on the Admissions Committee, charging a small admission fee to student concerts, and publicizing senate work so that bills and committee reports cannot be railroaded through."

Jody Turner is another senate veteran, and he has served on the Inter-Fraternity Council. A North Carolina Fellow, he worked for Congressman Richardson Preyer last summer. Paraphrasing John Dewey, Turner stated that, "Education should not be preparation for life, but life itself. Everything at Davidson, from social activities to student government, should be a part of education."

On fraternities, Turner feels that the trustees "will not reverse their decision without seeing it work for a while. With such a situation, it’s going to take open, imaginative thinking to make the best of it." Turner added that "national fraternities should be allowed to move off campus if they desire." In place of the SGA, he wants "a governing council for the entire school, composed of equal numbers of representatives from the administration, faculty, and students. All other academic, legislative, and judicial bodies will be subordinate to this council."

Turner seeks curriculum changes for "more interdisciplinary courses and majors, and a pre-law major." He feels the college has been "dragging its feet on coeducation. There are a number of small steps it could be taking to speed that time."

Greg Sikes is wary of the misleading nature of political campaigns, and he is motivated as a candidate by his desire to reopen the question of fraternities. He has participated in varsity football and basketball, and is a member of the YMCA and the Association of Christian Athletes. Sikes believes an agreeable settlement can be reached by all the parties involved on Patterson Court. "I see no reason why a compromise on fraternities would not be economically and socially feasible. The freshmen are the ones who have been really hurt."

He hopes to revamp the SGA if elected. "The way things have been going lately I think it's time the SGA was put on a more realistic basis. I think it should represent the whole student body, and recently the campus has been subject to the workings of a group of professional politicians."

Sikes favors student representation on the Admissions Committee, and he thinks the SGA should publicize itself more in THE DAVIDSONIAN.