Page Two May 7, 1971 (Staff photo by Doty)

A DEGREE FOR A GOVERNOR
Robert Scott receives an honorary Doctor of Laws.

The Davidsonian

Scott Charges Davidson
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

North Carolina Governor Robert W. Scott stressed “the importance of being unique” in his address to the Spring Awards Convocation last Tuesday. After apologizing for a slight case of laryngitis and ribbing Davidson for its slow progress in coeducation, Scott turned to more sober issues, stating four major crises that threatened the American birthright.

The first of the major problems he listed is the war in Vietnam, about which the state government could do very little to remedy. Scott said, “Americans do not bring forth sons as gifts to the nation; Americans bring forth a nation as a gift to their sons.”

Scott cited the second problem as “continuing extremism. No child is born an alien to his fellows... I count myself among those Southern governors urging the citizenry toward a new South that could lead the earth in tolerance. The potential of the new South is too great to be slowed down by bigotry, hatred, or conflict.”

“Damage to the environment” is the next problem, one of “fearsome potential.” Scott said that he had introduced legislation into the General Assembly to “stop the deterioration of the present and to begin to safeguard the future.”

Finally, Scott turned his attention to the last problem, “education — particularly private higher education.” He remarked that there are bills presently under consideration in the state that “will remove all financial barriers to higher education for young men and women resident here.” He added, “In a country as complicated as ours has become, we must consider education a means toward each individual’s fulfilling his unique potential for service to others.”

Scott then spoke directly to the Davidson educational environment. He asked “whether there is not a position of uniqueness that Davidson...

5 Blacks Plan Definitely To Enroll At Davidson
By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

Thirty-five blacks applied to Davidson this year for admission to the Class of 1975, an increase over past years, according to the Office of Admissions. Some applications are pending, but so far 11 blacks have been admitted for next year. According to Assistant Director of Financial Aid Peter V. Sterling, “Five black students have decided definitely to attend Davidson next year.”

The Office of Admissions is attempting to get a black on its staff, but so far it has been unsuccessful. “A black recruiter would help greatly in increasing the number of blacks who apply to Davidson,” said Sterling. “The reasons blacks are hesitant to attend Davidson are its location in a small southern town, the small number of blacks presently here, and the limited social life,” explained Sterling.

According to a number of black students, a larger number of blacks do not apply to Davidson because it is a white, southern, upper-middle class college with a very inadequate social life. The small number of blacks presently here do not make Davidson attractive to prospective blacks, they feel. They point out that there is not a black member of the regular faculty, and Davidson's recruiting practices are poor in relation to other schools of Davidson's caliber. Of over 1,000 students, only 11 are black, and one black student said, “It's obvious this year has not been productive for some black students.”

One black student has already decided to leave at the end of this school year and others may follow. Another black added, “We paint Davidson as vivid as possible without any gloss for visiting blacks. I don’t know if I would come again.”

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

Advertising Manager:
WHIT WHITWORTH

Contributors this week:
Dave Tierney, Howard Boyd, Charlie Terrell, David Wells, and Bill Green.

Copy Editors:
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
DAVE DOTY

Ass't Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
CHARLIE RALSTON
FRANK ERWIN

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.has yet to achieve.”

Queens Girls To Enter Coed Exchange Program

The coed population at Davidson is expected to be increased next year with the inauguration of an exchange program between Davidson and Queens based on the model of the Eight College Exchange program.

According to Jay H. Ostwalt, director of instructional development, the proposal was initiated by Queens during the present school year. The Queens faculty approved the measure last Friday. The Educational Policy committee at Davidson had approved it earlier in April.

Ostwalt foresees two major benefits in the exchange for Davidson and Davidson students. “We were after numbers as far as our coeds were concerned. Wednesday we talked with five Queens students who were interested in the program and we hope that we can get five or six at Davidson in the fall,” Ostwalt said.

Ostwalt added that the women’s residence will not be filled with coeds from the Eight College Exchange program since only five students will come from women's schools on the program next fall. The chief advantage will be curricular according to Ostwalt. “Queens is on a 4-1-4 program and we think that the short middle term could be very useful to us in our own programs such as the Washington semester.”

The short term at Queens is a combination of regular on-campus offerings together with off-campus courses such as pre-Columbian archaeology in Mexico, tropical botany in the Caribbean, and skiing and conversational German in Switzerland.

To Assume Greater Role

Commending College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan for their capable leadership, Scott went on to say that the faculty and students also complement the excellent resources at Davidson necessary to assume a unique role. He concluded, “Education is irrelevant when its aim is for anything less than to fulfill the wish of all men for a better, richer life in a more peaceful, more tolerant society. . . An institution is not a person, but its members can achieve excellence for it, and if they are able and committed, they can give it uniqueness.”

The awards ceremony followed the address, and then an honorary Doctor of Laws degree was conferred on Scott by the college. After the assembly, Scott fielded a few questions from THE DAVIDSONIAN although a press conference with the college news bureau could not be scheduled.

Responding to a question on state funds for private institutions, Scott said, “We hope we can make a beginning. I'm certainly recommending it. I want to get the principle established, and even if we can get only token support I think we will have accomplished our purpose. We won't be able to fund the program heavily this time because our funds are not in real good shape, but at least we can get something started.”

Commenting on his future plans, Scott said that “the electorate will decide that, and my family will have a voice in my plans after the governorship. At present I expect to be back at Haw River after my term expires.”

There was a dinner out on the lawn afterwards, and approximately 100 sophomores and their parents attended.

Faculty (Continued from Page 1)

Answering questions on the proposal, expressed cautious optimism about the faculty action. “I'm glad they didn't slam the door in our faces like they have done in the past on some issues. I am also encouraged that the faculty plans to seriously consider the proposal we asked for. Of the three proposals, the one they selected truly represents the actual meaning of open faculty meetings,” said Lear.

In other action, the announcement was made to the faculty concerning the proposal to allow student representation on the faculty Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee and the Admissions Committee. This proposal is also an amendment to the faculty constitution and must follow the amendment procedure.

The proposal for a change in the physical education requirement was tabled until the next meeting for lack of time. Under this proposal, each student would have to pass proficiency tests in five sports, while class attendance would not be required.

“I'm very optimistic about the physical education proposal,” said Clodfelter. “It has been approved by the phys ed department, favored by Dr. Bevan, passed by the EPC, and backed by the students. I don’t see how they can turn it down,” he said.