TUITION COSTS 7+ os Spring! £

LETTER

Censorship Spurs Moral Cleansing

To the Editor:

Spurred on by the forward-looking action of the Union Board Executive Committee in their decision to censor the “Groove Tube”
(hereafter referred to as “Exhibit A” due to the odious and suggestive nature of its name), we enter into a
more positive course of action to insure the preservation of the pure and moral atmosphere of the Davidson College community.
The unfortunate showing of Exhibit A in our union has planted the seed necessary for the rebirth of a long-awaited
moral re-armament. The challenge is here. Will we rise up to it? We’re not letting our mothers down. How about
you, mothers?

We of the Moral Rehabilitation Front acclaim the liberation of the union. For the protection of our members, this conquest
must be further extended to embrace more than just our union. To cool the several hotbeds of moral indignation on
our campus, we must thrust ahead into the Stowe galleries. Just a short period ago, the Stowe galleries presented a
small but potent collection of Tibetan pornography. These Oriental tapestries depicted the disgusting celebration of pagan fertility acts in all
their licentious detail. Although this can be passed off as art by the primitive peoples of South Asia, we, a
civilized people, can easily recognize it for the filth that it is and must expel it from our midst.

In addition to the cleansing of the art galleries from this un-American influence, we suggest that the Asian gingko trees,
due to their incriminating spring odor, be pulled out by their roots and left to wither.

To coordinate our movement and identify our comrades, we will make an attractive, smart-looking morality sash to be worn as
a symbol of our moral vigor. Be the first on your hall to get one.

R. D. Peterson, ‘71
S. C. Engstrom, ‘71
G. C. Allen, ‘71
Davidson College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Budget Cut Dulls

To the Editor:

I have recently learned that Dr. Scott, along with the Chambers administration, is considering a large cut in the soccer
team’s budget. This cut will mean the elimination of part of our schedule and the reduction of necessary equipment. Despite
a 10-3-1 record and Southern Conference championship; despite the increasing popular support of the sport; despite the organization of the
Davidson Soccer Club as a planned year-round activity; despite the fact that soccer coaches and players have actively recruited, without
subsidization, over 60 applicants for admission, many of whom are excellent students and players; despite the success, enthusiasm, and contributions
to the school, the administration has responded weakly. This indifference, coupled with a substantial budget cut, is landing a demoralizing
blow to the soccer program at a critical stage in its development. More Southern Conference titles are in sight as
well as entry into the NCAA play-offs. Soccer does not need subsidization nor high-powered financing; but we must have our
full schedule and proper equipment if we are to continue to improve and develop as a successful, winning team.

Dick LeVan ‘72
Davidson College

To the Editor:

This letter is written in regard to the article in the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN which stated that the
business office of the college had received a bill for $5,000 for meals which freshmen ate at the union instead
of at their assigned eating club. Simple mathematics tell a much different story. Assuming that there are 300 freshmen (the
actual figure is closer to 280) who were assigned over the winter quarter to eat two meals per week for
eight weeks at eating clubs, then the total number of meals eaten by freshmen would number 4,800. Since meals at
the Union are priced...

DAVID WELLS
Staff Writer

For those people who expect this movie to be another “Woodstock,” get ready for a bum trip. There is some
music and there are a lot of people, but that’s where the similarity ends. “Gimme Shelter” is based on the
Rolling Stones’ 1969 tour of the United States, which culminated in a fiasco of a free concert at California's Altamont
Speedway. During the course of the tour, the various events, concerts, meetings, and press conferences were filmed by no less
than 28 cameramen. The film was later edited and compiled to form an integrated whole that would accurately depict the
experience encountered along the way. To say, however, that the purpose of the film is to document the success of
the tour would be to miss the point entirely.At $1.10 and $1.35, this means that the maximum debt that the
college could incur if 300 freshmen ate every meal at the Union would be $6,000. In other words, 5/6 of
all meals that freshmen were assigned to eat on the court were eaten at the Union. As freshmen who participated
(reluctantly) in the new system, we can assure you that this was not the case. From this, it can be
seen that the college is attempting to pass off economic coercion (who would pay to eat in the Union if
he could eat for free elsewhere?) under the guise of a loss of money at the cafeteria. The facts are
that the college could not have lost $3,000 through freshmen in the Union; and even if the college did lose
this money, wouldn’t it seem to indicate the widespread dislike for the new system of eating clubs among freshmen? The
administration's lack of honesty and integrity in dealing with its students in relation to these and other concerns is what
has filled some freshmen with disillusionment and disgust for so many aspects of Davidson.

Frank Smith '74
Ross Manire '74
Davidson College

It serves, rather, to point up a very basic change in outlook on the part of the Stones themselves; a
change in the way they understand themselves and their audiences. Instead of a euphoric affirmation of the ideals of freedom
and harmony espoused by the contemporary American “counter-culture,” “Gimmie Shelter,” the Rolling Stones’ first full-length film, takes a long hard
look at the reality behind the long hair and the drugs. What it reveals is a completely different society, separate
from that of the established order, yet remarkably similar in its basic human problems of conflicting individuals and lifestyles. Accordingly,
the dominant position in the film is occupied by the audiences, more specifically the mammoth audience at Altamont. The action
focuses almost from the very beginning on this last event, the cataclysmic finale to the wildly successful tour. Somewhere along
the line, hopes

It turns out, their task somewhat more seriously than intended. Definitely leaves a lot to be desired. Many of the
scenes tend to drag on indefinitely, and some are downright boring (who wants to see the dawning of a new
day). There is apparently no solution to the conflicts of the Walpurgisnacht confrontation, but, as is indicated in the final
scene of the film, there is. It is in the light of this new day that the meaning of the
movie, as well as that of the song of the same name, become clear. The shelter of love needed to
withstand the storm of existence is present; it lies just a kiss away.

By ALEC HOON
News Editor

Protests Against the War

At Chapel Hill, a march on Washington is being planned by the National Peace Action Coalition (NPAC) to demonstrate against
the war in Indochina. The march is to be scheduled for April 24, to be launched in conjunction with the
“May Day Offensive,” according to “The Daily Tar Heel.” The Hofstra “Chronicle” reports that the Student Mobilization Committee (SMC) is
consolidating the anti-war sentiment on the campus and surrounding community in plans to join the March on Washington. The SMC
also hopes to hold a commemoration of the student deaths at Kent State and Jackson State on May fifth. Thomas
Broadwater, one of those sent to observe the Paris peace talks by the “Citizens’ Conference on Ending the War in
Indochina,” spoke at South Carolina on the prospects for peace. He said, “If the U.S. were to agree on a
definite date of withdrawal from Indochina there would be a political settlement and a release of all political prisoners.”

Castro Prisoner Treatment Lambasted

Two Rutgers students were among 16 demonstrators arrested for handcuffing themselves inside the U.N. Security Council Chamber, reported the Rutgers
“Targum.” They were there, not protesting the war in Indochina, but the treatment of political prisoners in Cuba. They were
forcibly ejected after three hours and charged with criminal trespass. This was just one incident in a stepped-up offensive by
the Cuban student group Abdala against Castro’s government.
