(Staff photo by Barnes)

AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE
Spencer instructs Professor Epes on evacuation procedure.

The Davidsonian
October 15, 1971
Page Three

Who’s Who Takes Quota;
By BILL GIDUZ
Staff Writer

Twenty Davidson seniors will be included in this year's edition of “Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.” The twenty
were notified Thursday, and they will later receive an official engraved certificate in honor of their selection. A twenty-five man
committee composed of students, faculty, and administration chose twenty students last week on the basis of their contributions to the
Davidson community. Those contributions varied from membership in the student government to Phi Beta Kappa to work in the field
of drama. Other facets of college life represented by the twenty in-

Bomb Empties Chambers
By DAVID HANIG
News Editor

The bomb scare last Friday has created much interest and even some amusement among the continuing college community. At about
10:30 a.m. Friday, Mrs. Betty Fleenor, Dean Spencer’s secretary, received a phone call from a man who judged to be
in his late twenties or early thirties. Mrs. Fleenor, the caller said, “There’s a bomb in Chambers. It’s going to
go off at 11:00.” Mrs. Fleenor then called the town police, who in turn called Tom Sadler, who in turn
called College President R. Samuel Spencer, Jr. While Sadler was talking to Spencer, the town police called the County Bomb
Squad. Spencer, who was in the process of having his picture taken by Director of the News Bureau Buck Lawrimore,
immediately rose from his desk, said, “Come on,” to Lawrimore, and stepped out into the hall adjacent to his office.
Once in the hall, Spencer quickly collected eight or nine staff members and assigned sections of the building to evacuate
all students and faculty. According to Spencer, the evacuation began less than 2 minutes after Sadler called. In the excitement,
somebody forgot to tell Assistant Professor of History C. Earl Edmondson that a threat had been made. Edmondson, who was
working in his office on the third floor, did not learn about the bomb until he left his office to
pick up the second-year humanities reviews at 11:45. On his way to Perkins Auditorium, Edmondson met the College Business Manager
Robert Currie, who told Edmondson about the bomb, whereupon Edmondson exited the building. Fifty minutes after the call to Mrs.
Fleenor was made, the all-clear was sounded, and Academic Vice President M. John Bevan canceled 12 o'clock classes.

Budget (Continued from Page 1)

substantial increase in its budget from $1,375 to $4,265. Before last year, WDAV received no funds for its operation from
the Activities Fee Committee. Many members of the Activities Fee Committee questioned the value of a Wildcat Handbook because regulations
concerning student conduct are now published by the College. In past years this was the primary function of the Wildcat
Handbook, and the Publications Board is debating whether one will be published next year. In the event that a Wildcat
Handbook is published, the committee tentatively gave it $1,600, which was an increase from $1,325 from last year. The Residence
Hall Association had a surplus of $223 from last year’s appropriation of $985. Its $1,177 request was cut to $1,050.
The Black Student Coalition had $483 left over from its $650 appropriation for last year. It requested $316.50 and received
$300. The total requested by organizations this year was $40,469 and $37,625 was appropriated. Each student will be contributing $37.62
to these organizations as opposed to $37.30 for 1970-1971.

Election - Referendum - Amendment

On Tuesday, October 26, the SGA Election Board will conduct balloting in the dormitories on the following three items:

1) Residence Hall Council must register in the Dean of Students office before 5:00 p.m. on October 21.
2) A National Student Association referendum. The bill will read: “In January of 1971 the student Senate voted to affiliate
with the National Student Association. This affiliation is currently in force. Do you favor continuing this affiliation?” (yes or no).you
approve of the senate ac- A “yes” vote for the NSA referendum is for sustaining the senate action. A “no”
ballot is for negation of the senate vote. A two-thirds vote by the student body is required to overrule.

3) A proposed amendment to the SGA Constitution. The proposed change concerns Article II, Section 1 of the constitution: “Membership
of the senate.” The section would be amended, by a two-thirds vote, to provide for two new representatives. These new
positions, if approved, would be filled by one senator from the co-ed residence hall and one senator elected by students
living off-campus.

Candidates ou NSA affiliation. A “no” vote...

Salads “After Church” Sunday Buffet All You Can Eat 12 Noon - 2 p.m. Beef - Chicken Beverages Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room Desserts

Include male chorus, publications, sports, the YMCA, NC Fellows, and membership in ODK, the national leadership fraternity. Although juniors and
seniors are eligible for nomination to the publication, it has been a tradition at Davidson that the honor only be
awarded to seniors, according to Dean of Students Will H. Terry.

Profiles of the twenty selected follow:

Bill Beckman is one of the most outstanding math students to attend Davidson in recent years. Elected chairman of the
social council, Duff Bruce also chairs the Student Court. Cecil Burney is an associate editor and columnist for THE DAVIDSONIAN,
a former vice president of the student body, and is presently a student senator. Presently the president of the Student
Body, Danny Clodfelter is an N.C. Fellow and ranks first in the senior class. Active in the Drama Department, George
Draughon has held many leading roles in major drama productions. Scott Keeter is station manager of WDAV, the campus radio
station. Active in community affairs, John Kenyon is a past secretary of the YMCA. Bill Lear is president of the
senior class and serves as chairman of the elections board. Captain of the soccer team, Dick LeVan is in ODK
and founded the soccer club. Adrian Long, former director of the STEP program, is president of the YMCA. Russ Merritt,
former chairman of the Campus Religious Life Council, is co-editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Chairman of the Publications Board and editor
of the Miscellany, Mark Meza is also active in student government. Robert Norris is co-captain of the football team. Secretary
of the Publications Board, Don Parman is co-editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Tom Richardson is an award-winning member of the track
team. Active in student government, Steve Salyer is serving on President Nixon's Commission on Population Control. Head of the black
student coalition and former member of the basketball team, Lester Strong is currently serving as president of the Union Board.
Ray Swetenburg is president of Pi Kappa Alpha and is an award-winning member of the track team. He holds the
Southern Conference Indoor Championship in the 60-yard high hurdles. Ty Tippett is president of the male chorus. A member of
the Educational Policy Committee, Jody Turner is an N.C. Fellow and served on the senate for three years.

Hosts the five-hour show...

If you crooned with the early Elvis Presley (“Love Me Tender”)... let your radio blare out “So Rare” by Jimmy
Dorsey... wore white bucks, pink shirts, peg pants, or bobby socks... bought all the Platters records; later, the Lettermen, Association,
and Vogues... and today Chicago, Blood, Sweat, & Tears... and still Elvis, you understand why WBT Radio's “Original Sunday Night
Hall of Fame” is such a hit. Nostalgia is invading fashion, art, and literature, and WBT now invades the world
of music, as far back as 1950. Mike Ivers, Music Director of WBT, does far more than spin discs. Between
each song, he tells about the artists and relates other interesting tidbits concerning style, era, etc. Mike receives an avalanche
of mail from up and down the eastern seaboard, filled with requests for “Special Favorites.” You might say that WBT
Radio has become a past... at least for five hours a week. The “Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame”... from
7 till Midnight... then you...
