_May 7, 1971 Page Ten The Davidsonian_

Friday, May 7
8:15 p.m. Play: "Charley's Aunt"

Saturday, May 8
2:30 p.m. Matinee: "Charley's Aunt"
8:15 p.m. Play: "Charley's Aunt"

Sunday, May 9
4 p.m. Lawn Concert: Trinidad Tripoli Steel Band

Monday, May 10
10 a.m. Film: "The War Game"
4 p.m. Lecture: John Kenneth Galbraith
8:15 p.m. Lecture: John Kenneth Galbraith "Foreign Policy: The Next Reform"
9:30 p.m. Student Organ Recital
10 p.m. Open End: Martin and Sally

Tuesday, May 11
8:15 p.m. Concert: Male Chorus

Wednesday, May 12
8 p.m. Fine Film: "The Virgin Spring"

Thursday, May 13
7 and 10:30 p.m. Film: "2001: A Space Odyssey"

By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

One was convicted for forging subscriptions for drugs. The other is serving 30 years for a burglary conviction. Both Tad
and Cleave are currently serving terms in the North Carolina Penal System. Speaking at an Open End discussion Monday night,
Tad and Cleave said that the parole system is the greatest injustice they must suffer. They feel it causes the
inmates to be discouraged rather than optimistic.

"When I came up for my parole, I received a form letter from Raleigh which said I had been turned
down," said Cleave. "They gave no reason at all. Now I don't see how these three guys in Raleigh can
pass judgment on me without even seeing me. They don't know my conduct. And then I look around and see
other guys buying their way out. It's politics."

To Involve Community

By ALEC HOON
News Editor

On May 15, the Davidson community will engage in "Clean-up Week," a time designed to restore some of the town's
eyesores and pollution problems and to improve relations between all elements of the local community. Some of the projects included
will be to remove and scrap inoperable automobiles and washing machines, to clean up the entrances and exits to the
town, and to reduce the pollution in Algae Pond, a body of stagnant water in the town.

According to Director of Alumni Activities Howard B. Arbuckle, "The week is designed to get all elements of the community
to work together to clean up Davidson." May 15, designated "Town Day," will be a celebration of the accomplishments of
the week, involving townspeople, white and black, and members of Davidson College. "It is designed to bring everyone together, to
improve the relationships between different elements of the community," said Arbuckle, former President of the College Union Board. He had
seen a similar idea conducted in Henderson and was impressed by the results.

"Town Day" will feature a full slate of activities beginning at 11 a.m. with a parade up Main Street including
unusual animals from Cook's farm, fire engines, and children in costumes stressing the environmental project. Food will be served by
the Piedmont Area Development Association in a combination fish fry-hot dog roast at a minimal charge. At 5 p.m. there
will be musical entertainment in the parking lot at the corner of Griffith and Main Street. Featured will be PeeWee
Davis and Blue-Grass Ramblers, Ralph Quackenbush with his recorder, Gethsemane Baptist Church, and Fred Deese.

280 Students To Attend

By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

As of yesterday, 280 students have informed the Office of Admissions that they decided to attend Davidson next year as
freshmen. Of the rest accepted, 204 have decided not to attend Davidson, and they have withdrawn their applications. The Office
of Admissions has projected a class of 300 for the Class of 1975, and Assistant Director of Financial Aid Peter
V. Sterling believes that this goal will be met. A total of 569 have been accepted so far. Five individuals
have informed Davidson that they will probably come next year, and 15 are undecided. Another group has not yet informed
Davidson of their intentions, and most of them shall be receiving letters from the Office of Admissions stating that their
applications are no longer active.That's the game. Tad and Cleave suggested that a parole board be established in each prison
unit so that there would be some personal contact between the board and the inmates. “If a man is serving
a life sentence, comes up for parole, and is turned down, he gets discouraged," said Cleave. And when no reason
is given, “he begins to look for a way out.” Cleave described how one prisoner had his girl bring him
parts of a gun every time she came to visit while he put the gun together in his cell. “That
guy escaped successfully but he was one of the smarter ones that had been in the prison," said Cleave. “Most
of the guys try to buy off a lawyer to get them out.” Both Tad and Cleave, however, were optimistic
about some of the new developments in the penal system. At some correctional institutions, prisoners can go to school six
days a week to take courses which eventually lead to a high school diploma. Some units also have clinical group
therapy sessions.

67 have not in- letters as it appears that they are no longer interested in Davidson. The Office of Admissions
has accepted some of those on the waiting list, and according to Sterling, “This is not an abnormal procedure.” A
profile of the Class of 1975 telling college board scores, class rankings, the number of those who lettered in a
varsity sport, and related subjects is not presently available, but it will be prepared fairly soon, Sterling believes. In an
attempt to explain the difficulties of the Office of Admissions, Sterling said, “All private institutions are experiencing a decreasing number
of applications.” Sterling pointed to tight money, inflation, and rising costs as reasons for this decline. “State institutions are also
facing financial problems because state legislatures are not funding universities as freely as they previously did,” commented Sterling.

When asked about living conditions in the Dallas prison, Cleave said about 50 prisoners are confined in one large room.
“The rooms are absolutely filthy,” said Cleave. “Stepping out of the shower is like stepping into a mud puddle.” “There
is also a problem with personal hygiene,” added Tad. “Some guys will work on the roads in the day and
wear the same clothes all week. Others won't take a bath for two to three weeks at a time.” Both
Cleave and Tad agreed that outside volunteers are needed to help the prisoners to adjust, but people in society look
down on prisoners because they see only the bad side on television.

Up and Coming As Freshmen Next Year

“What are students at Davidson doing to aid in the admissions procedure?” asked Sterling. He pointed out that some students
at Davidson do not like it, and they encourage others not to come. “There are those students who see the
merits of a Davidson education, and I hope that they would involve themselves in the admissions procedure,” said Sterling. Sterling
noted that visiting athletes received the red carpet treatment, and he feels that the student body should show as much
concern for other visiting students. Davidson was unable to meet the full financial need for some applicants this year, and
the Office of Admissions has not noticed a large difference in return between these applicants and those who had no
need. “We are somewhat surprised by this, and it appears that very few will be unable to attend Davidson because
of financial reasons,” commented Sterling.

STUDY SOUNDS IMPROVE GRADES

Improve Grades While Devoting The Same Amount Of Time To Study — Use Study Sounds. Increase Your Concentration And Improve
Your Comprehension. Study At A Faster Rate. Electronically Produced sounds cause this To Happen. Please Specify 8 Track Tape, Cassette,
Or LP Record. Send Check or Money Order—$9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage, Sound Concepts, Inc.,—Box 3852, Charlottesville, Va.
22902.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. Phone 892-2111 — Sunday 9:30 A.M. to 10:30 Davidson, N. C. 131 N. Main
St. Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Psychologist hold — CH Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Parmigiana — Salads — ICE STEAKS — La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
