The two Davidson students who set a smoke bomb in the main hall of the ROTC department on Thursday night,
April 19, said in an interview Wednesday that the act was politically motivated. The bomb was a World War II
vintage U.S. Army smoke bomb, they said. As their reasons for planting the bomb, the two outlined a general objection
to war and to the aggressive military defense stance employed by the United States. “We see no justification for any
part of the war effort to be located on the Davidson campus. We wish to make the ROTC department feel
unwanted,” they said. The bomb was filled with a magnesium compound, they said, but they did not know exactly what
kind. During the interview, they produced the lid to the canister. The two stated that they had had the bomb
for some time. “We considered doing it during the daytime. We wanted the smoke to be seen, and to attract
a lot of people. We had been planning for some time to use the bomb. But we hadn’t planned to
do it that night until we saw the door to the ROTC department, on the left rear of Belk Dorm,
was unlocked and standing open. It was wedged open and the lights were on,” the student said. The lights in
the ROTC department, located in the basement section of Belk, are normally left on at night. “We went in and
looked around for nearly half an hour.

SGA To Conduct Yearbook Poll
By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

On Tuesday, a poll of all students will be held to formulate a policy for the future of the Quips
and Cranks, the college yearbook. Students will be able to state their first, second, and third preferences for three alternatives.
The alternatives will be to maintain the “Quips and Cranks” at its present budget, reduce the budget to a $4,000
to $7,500 range, or do away with the yearbook. Inflation and tight money have necessitated a study of the yearbook
budget. The quality of the Quips and Cranks has been heavily criticized, and Charlie Ralston, a member of the student-faculty
Finance Committee and photographer for the Quips and Cranks, believes that “it is too difficult to produce a good annual
because Davidson’s size prevents an adequate staff.” (Staff photo by Ralston)

THEOLOGY AND ECOLOGY
Piedmont Lecturer Sittler considers the future.

The Davidsonian
April 23, 1971
Page Three

Sittler Ponders Theology Of Man And Environment
By JOE SMITH
Associate Editor

Western man has strayed from the original biblical understanding of his relationship to nature and the resulting destruction of the
environment has endangered his spiritual as well as physical life. This was the line of argumentation taken by Dr. Joseph
Sittler in a Piedmont lecture entitled “Theology and Ecology,” given in the Morrison Room on April 21. Sittler, a professor
at the University of Chicago Divinity School, began his discussion by declaring “illusions”“First,” they said. “This was at about 9:15
p.m. Then we went and got the smoke bomb and came back. We placed the bomb so that the smoke
would be seen. This was at about 9:45 p.m. Then we left.” The two stated that they did not remain
to see the crowd. According to George Hampton, Davidson fire chief, the fire department received a call at 10:05 p.m.
By 10:30, a large crowd had gathered, estimated at around 300 people, though many estimates varied. Both students emphasized the
idea of protest against the war as the motive for the act. They said that they did not wish to
cause any injury, or to steal anything while they were there because “that wasn't consistent with our ideas of a
protest.”

There seem to be two beliefs which he said were generally accepted as true: (1) that the problems of the
environment can be dealt with through legislation; (2) that adequate resources, if supplied, can solve the problems which it has
helped to make. The professor then went on to point out that the charges leveled at the Christian church as
a prime mover in the destruction of the environment were, to a great extent, valid. He went on to point
out that biblical speech is ecological, in that all things are described in terms of the environment in which they
exist. Man is defined in this way as a being for which existence is thought of in terms of subsistence,
the relationship to those beings around him, and his relationship to the “whole rich and supportive earth.”

One problem in modern man's approach to nature, according to Sittler, is the interpretation of the doctrine of dominium terri
in terms of domination of nature by man. He said that this interpretation has been used as a “heavenly apologia
for Texaco,” subverting its original meaning: a charge to man to take care of his sister, the earth. Sittler said
that the important question that the theologian must ask is: How can the traditional view of man's responsibility in caring
for the earth be restored?

---

Boots
170 N. Main
Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Mooresville, N. C.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 A.M. to 10:30
Phone 892-2111
Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

THE JOE COLLEGE COMMITTEE of The Duke University Union presents its SPRING OUTDOOR CONCERT
THE GRATEFUL DEAD
THE BEACH BOYS
3:00 - 11:00 p.m.
SATURDAY, APRIL 24
featuring
BREAD
UNCLE DIRTY
THE PAUL BUTTERFIELD BLUES BAND
WALLACE WADE STADIUM
$6.00 ADVANCE SALE
BOX KM, DUKE STATION, DURHAM, N. C. 27706
MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO DUKE UNIVERSITY UNION
INCLUDE STAMPED SELF-ADDRESSED ENVELOPE
COLLEGE I.D. REQUIRED ($1 per couple)
$7.00 AT THE GATE
