SGA: A Game People Play

AN ANALYSIS
- By JOE SMITH, Associate Editor, and GRAY WILSON, Managing Editor

A typical meeting of the student Senate is not the most exciting occasion on campus. The twenty or so odd
members who attend (perfect attendance is rare) gather once a week around a large table in a small room that
is always hot and crowded for space to play the game called student government. A mimeographed sheet of the order
of business, the rules of the game for the evening, is passed out, and SGA President Danny Clodfelter sticks to
that order.

Proposals (in writing only) which come before the senate are discussed and debated and sometimes butchered on the floor in
a very informal atmosphere. A comment by one senator may be defeated by a crack or approved by light laughter,
depending on the laughter. During debate, the members organize into smaller voting blocs behind one or two spiritual leaders, who
carry the vocal banner for their silent supporters. In short, about one-fourth of the senate does all of the work.

In order to hold attention, the speaker must be low-keyed, philosophical, and his language must be abstract. The trivial may
consume an inordinate amount of time. The room gets warmer as the evening progresses, and one or two students smoke
the air with cigarette graffiti, qualifying their disinterest by an occasional thump against the side of an ashtray. But Clodfelter
stays cool. He plays the game well. His composure as president is even more of an asset than his encyclopedic
knowledge of parliamentary procedure and the inner workings of Davidson College.

In true de Tocquevillian fashion, the actual voting is often superfluous after discussion of a proposal has indicated whether or
not it will pass. Close votes on an issue are uncommon. After an hour or two of the above procedure,
the meeting wakes up and then breaks up.

There are questions to be asked. What has been accomplished? Is the senate an exercise in futility? Just how worthwhile
and effective is it? For several years the faculty has snubbed the group as a pest. Student representation on the
Admissions Committee and open faculty meetings are still a thing of the future.

The monumental trustee decision last fall to establish a new social system took little interest in the meanderings of the
senate when the student body needed a voice desperately. Instead of evaluating the effectiveness of its advisory capacity, the senate
has changed its tact to envision a rhetoric of power that would make it a student oligarchy rather than a
representative group.

While fretting over the senate members that are not on faculty committees, the new move is to put SGA representatives
on student committees in which the senate has no place. Membership in the National Student Association (NSA) seems to be
another attempt to build the collective ego. The NSA offers more than a name, including a debt of thousands of
dollars.

Is the senate responsive to the student body? Referendums and ad hoc committees, along with sit-ins at a few recent
senate meetings, seem to indicate that somebody feels left out. "The best thing the senate can do is to abolish
itself" is a common phrase among the old guard at Patterson. Fraternity Court, and a large minority of students all
over the campus feel estranged from the actions of the senate.

The Residence Hall Council (RHC) and the Honor Court have not gone unscathed either in recent years. Student body candidates
this year often called for a reevaluation of the honor system at Davidson, and Dean of Students Will H. Terry
blasted the last outgoing RHC for its vocal stance on open dorms.

How well do these "representative" groups communicate with the student body? Except for an occasional biggy with headlines in THE
DAVIDSONIAN, the actions, minutes, and attendance in these groups remain unknown. Clodfelter has attempted to improve communication, but the spiritual
in the campus political hierarchy believes that the senate in the future will use other means to influence campus policy.
But now he calls "student government a game people play."

"The senate is presently advisory," he says, but they have been discussing other means for action other than advice, such
as boycotting on a number of issues. "If we're turned down on an issue any more, we're not going to
give up. We're going to keep pushing."THE DAVIDSONIAN coverage by moving up the senate meeting time to Monday or Tuesday
of each week so that the presses do not have to wait on Thursday. But what do the experts have
to say about all this? Rising senior senator Cecil Burney, the second-ranked, is going to keep fighting. "Last year every
senate proposal that went to the faculty was turned down. This year we're conscious of that experience and we are
going to refuse to permit this stagnation to continue."

Although each feels that the Student Government Association has yet to develop to the fullest possible extent, Ran Coble and
Peter Hobbie, both former presidents of that organization, feel that the SGA fulfills a useful purpose and that needed reforms
are possible. Hobbie said that the effectiveness of the organization was best measured by the forcefulness with which it has
confronted important issues.

"In this respect," he said, "the SGA is probably stronger now than at any time I have been here. Certainly,
in the last two years, student government has taken a stand on the things that counted." Hobbie went on to
point out that the effectiveness of the senate has been hampered by "dumb mistakes" made in the writing of the
SGA Constitution. Among those mistakes, Hobbie mentioned: (1) the assumption that the power to appoint would be vested in the
office of President, this power having been consistently denied by the senate, and (2) making the senate too large.

Coble said that he did not think that the SGA was as effective as it might be, due to problems
within the organization itself and the college community as a whole. "In this college," said Coble, "students are still second-
if not fourth-class citizens. To rectify this situation, there is a need for a community government. That is why I
am strongly in favor of a College Council form of government, in which administration, faculty, and student body would all
be represented."

Newspaper Poll Reveals Attitudes On Governance

There is still much that the student governing bodies can do to become effective forces at Davidson. That’s the opinion
of the majority of students responding to a poll taken by THE DAVIDSONIAN earlier this week. Fifty-six percent of the
students polled said that they felt the present student governing bodies, including the Student Government Association, the Residence Hall Council,
and the court system, are not doing an effective job of government. Thirty-nine percent said that they felt the student
governing bodies are effective, and five percent had no opinion.

The poll was conducted Monday and Tuesday by reporters of THE DAVIDSONIAN. One hundred students were randomly selected in a
number of locations such as the post office, the laundry, the library, and Chambers building. Despite the fact that most
of them felt that student government has been ineffective, the majority of students polled said that they still feel a
responsibility and an obligation to student government. Only 42 percent of the students responding to the poll said that they
felt no responsibility to student government.

On the question of representation, the students polled were split almost evenly. Forty-eight percent said that they felt the student
governing bodies are representing them, while 46 percent said that they felt otherwise. Six percent had no opinion. A full
97 percent of the students polled knew that Danny Clodfelter and Bill Alexander are president and vice-president of the SGA.
However, only 62 percent could identify their class senators, and only 52 percent could name their RHC representative. Seventy-two percent
of the students polled could identify their dormitory SGA representative.

Many of the students polled recognized that the RHC is a branch of the SGA, but could not distinguish between
the representatives of the two organizations. Also, several students mistakenly felt that student courts are a part of the SGA.
One senior said that such questions about student governance are farcical, because "SGA and all that crap are simply forms
of the games people play around here. Responsible to student governing bodies? Hell, what have they done for me?"

A freshman polled demonstrated a completely different attitude toward student governance. "In my opinion, the student governing bodies do a
fine job here of representing the opinions of the students. A good government is only as good as its participants,
so I think that all students should take part in student government."
