Page Six January 15, 1971

BRINGING DOWN THE GIANTS

Terry Holland breaks the news of possible suspension to several Davidson cagers.

Harriers Set New Record During Run From Queens

In a bizarre turn-around of tradition, the Davidson cross-country team expressed the dating opinion of the college by running away
from Queens last week. Sneaking in under the cover of darkness in a stolen Volkswagen, the eighteen-man team put in
a time of five hours and twenty-seven minutes for the 24-mile jaunt.

“It was certainly one of the best times the team has put in as a whole,” rasped Ran Coble, leader
of the pack. The team, inspired by their new player-coach, Sterling Martin, sought to expose the common idea that the
average Davidson man is turning to other colleges besides Queens to find his female companionship.

“This appears to be a common belief throughout the local area,” states Martin, “and we wished to expose it. If
people think the typical student is away from Queens, they're right.” Martin went on to call this run the best
showing the team has put in during the season. “Since we were only competing against our own runners, we really
thought we looked great,” he said.

Howard Boyd saw the protest as an act of freedom of expression. “The cross-country team has always been willing to
express any opinion on a given issue,” he said. “We saw it as our duty to the college community to
give public notice to the changes in student opinion.”

All did not fare well for the team. After a quick getaway from in front of Albright Dorm, the entire
team was arrested for blocking a public street at 3 a.m. Quickly confounding a Charlotte policeman with a string of
long words, Coble won the right for the team to continue their jaunt, and on Independence Avenue, they began hitch-running
toward home.

COBLE: Our best run

Coaches Elect Fogleman SC Sportsman Of Year

After sparking the Davidson soccer stars to a 10-3-1 season and their first Southern Conference title, Coach Harry Fogleman has
been named Sportsman of the Year for the Conference. The Sportsman of the Year award is given three times yearly,
to the outstanding coach in fall, winter, or spring athletics.

Fogleman received 39.6 percent of the ballots cast by the coaches, winning over such other coaches as Furman's Bob King,
Citadel’s Leon Crabtree, and VMI's Vito Ragazzo.

“I was truly thrilled and pleased to receive this high award. It is always stimulating for a coach to receive
such recognition from his fellows,” Fogleman commented.

“All the members of the soccer team feel that Coach Fogleman deserves everything he gets,” stated captain Dick Levan. “Any
reward I receive is as much an honor to the team as to me,” Fogleman commented. “After all, I just
coach, while they play.”

OPEN 9-8 — MONDAY - SATURDAYDavidson. (Martin later discounted a rumor that the St. Andrew's meet held here at Davidson
was to be invalidated due to an ineligible runner. “It may be true that we recruited another student to run
for us,” he said, “but the meet need not be forfeited because he fell at the one-mile mark and has
not been heard from since.”)

Following hard on the heels of the probations of six Atlantic Coast Conference basketball stars, Southern Conference commissioner Lloyd Jordan
has placed seven SC players on similar probation, according to sources close to the commissioner. Three Davidson starters, Eric Minkin,
Steve Kirley, and Duncan Postma, are among those frequently mentioned. One Richmond player, one Furman star, and two East Carolina
players are also included, according to reliable sources. If the rumors are borne out, the probations would call for the
suspension of the player after his next altercation on the courts.

Jordan has publicly expressed fear that the Southern Conference may be evolving into a situation similar to that of the
Atlantic Coast Conference and has said that he will not permit such hostility to arise among member schools. The implication
is that the probations are one manner of keeping the situation under control. “We want to be big-time, but this
is getting scary,” Jordan told a PTA luncheon last week. “Just last week I saw a guy go over someone’s
back for a rebound. That's unfair, dangerous, and unsportsmanlike. Not a very nice thing to do either.”

Other possible measures suggested as controls on the situation are the banning of pep bands and a special conference rule
which would permit the officials to eject any coach on whom they have called a technical foul. The commissioner's office
has refused to comment on the probations or the alternate proposals. None of the players were available for comment and
the athletic departments also refused to discuss the issue.

One recent rumor has been confirmed. Assistant commissioner Dallas Shirley told a press conference called in Staunton, Va., that VMI
had used an ineligible player in the last half of the season. Jordan mentioned that this would not affect the
final results of the campaign since the Keydets had not won any of those contests. One VMI official commented, “What’s
the use, they’re all out to get us anyhow.”

Rifle Team Adds Meets

The Davidson rifle team has added three meets to its 1970 schedule. According to Captain Richard Carmody, team coach, meets
with West Point, the Airborne Rangers, and the Chicago police have been scheduled. M-16 or small bore artillery will be
used in the meets.

Welcome back Davidson Students! And welcome to our greatest CLEARANCE SALE. Save up to 50% on famous make clothing, sweaters,
jackets, and car coats. Come browse and see the many fantastic buys.

Fein and Son
Our 59th Year
Mooresville
