(Staff photo by Barnes)

...AND IN THE LEFT CORNER
Terry Hirst and Sam Upchurch rehearse for the production.

Cast Selected For The Play: Rehearsals Begin For “Shrew”

The official cast for this term's drama production, Shakespeare’s “The Taming of the Shrew,” has been chosen, and rehearsals have
already begun for the production's opening on October 27. Jack Hartman, a senior just back from Junior Year Abroad, will
play the part of Petruchio, the quick-witted swain who possesses the boldness to woo, wed, and finally tame Katharina, the
shrew. Jennet Robinson, a sophomore exchange student from Mary Baldwin, has the title role of Katharina, an extremely smart woman.

Library (Continued from p. 1)

There will be several ladies' restrooms. The weight of the building will be supported by an interior column every thirty
feet. Because the interior walls won't support the building, the floor plan can be changed to accommodate new acquisitions without
weakening the structure.

“If the present rate of acquisitions is maintained—ten thousand books a year—the library will last for 30 to 40 years,”
Davidson declared. Plans call for 400 to 600 seats, most of which will be carrels. In addition to the student
carrels, there will be several carrels for faculty use. According to Park, “the library will be the one place on
campus where the student can be by himself in order to study. To keep an atmosphere conducive to study, there
will be no classrooms in it.”

The E. H. Little library will have a facade “which will be harmonious with the architecture of the campus,” Davidson
said. “I think that the college and I will be very pleased with the design, which will conform with the
architectural style of the campus,” he said.

The role of Bianca, Katharina’s sister, supposedly a sugar-sweet ingenue type, is played by Bobbie Blackwood, a coed from Hollins.
Terry Hirst has the role of Lucentio, a super-romantic type and one of Bianca’s numerous suitors. The remainder of the
cast includes Richard Scott as Hortensio and Lee Fowlkes as Gremio, both suitors for Bianca’s fair hand; Bob Wright as
Baptista, the girl's father; and Sam Upchurch as Lucentio’s faithful servant. Graham Draughon will play Biondello; Ron Hardy, Vincentio; and
Grier Newlin, the Pedant; Bob Long.

Davidsonian, October 1, 1971 Page Three

Eight College Exchange Rumored End Disclaimed

By THOMAS AINSWORTH
Staff Writer

According to a recent rumor going around the Davidson campus, the eight-college exchange program, of which Davidson is a member
and a leading proponent, would be terminated in the near future unless a new agreement was worked out between the
participating schools. The official reply to this piece of information is that it “just ain’t so.” Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt,
Director of Instructional Development and coordinator of the program here, said that there was “just no basis” for this hearsay.
Going on, Ostwalt stated that the system “has been operating for one year, and as far as we know will
continue. Of course,” he admonished, “if the number...Crumio: and Martha Taylor, another coed from Mary Baldwin, is the Widow. “The
Taming of a Shrew,” written about 1597, is one of Shakespeare's many romantic comedies, with numerous switches of identity designed
to keep the audience and the characters guessing. It is the story of a marriage for money that turns into
a marriage of love and the tale of a flirt who spots her prey and reels him in. For those
of you interested in the games people play, “The Taming of a Shrew” is a must.

If the number of exchange students drops below a significant level, we will discontinue the program. But as far as
we know, it will pick up. Some of the problems with the Consortium were discussed by Ostwalt. He feared that
a few of the women's colleges would limit the number of girls they sent out if they didn't get an
increased percentage of men in return. He also mentioned the fact that most of the fees of the other home
colleges, which their outgoing exchange students have to pay, were relatively higher than Davidson’s. For the most part, however, Ostwalt
cited the program's troubles as being “largely a matter of public relations,” the girls themselves failing to advertise the program
to their fellow classmates being a factor.

In any case, the people closest to the exchange consortium want to see these rumors killed, including SGA President Danny
Clodfelter and Dr. John M. Bevan, vice-president for academic affairs. Bevan expressed his concern over the issue saying, “I don't
know anything about it, the president doesn’t know anything about it, and unless Dr. Ostwalt knows something we don’t, we
will continue to participate in it.” It seems that this latest rumor (there have been others in the past year)
originated from a recent Student Senate meeting in which this very subject came up. Someone mentioned that they had heard
this rumor and went on to describe its details.

Even though it looks like the Consortium will be around for a while, Marie Ferrara, one of seven Mary Baldwin
girls in the program, would hate to see it abandoned. “I really think it’s worthwhile for girls who are going
to Davidson,” she says, “but maybe not for the boys coming to us. I think what frightens the girls, however,
is that a men’s college will be a lot harder and they'll have to spend most of their time studying.”
Marie also points out that she heard a similar rumor last year that the program would be discontinued due to
a lack of people interested in it.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.

Oct. 1
BREAD and LIVINGSTON TAYLOR

Oct. 16
TRAFFIC and FAIRPORT CONVENTION

Oct. 30
MANDRILL and Leon RUSSELL

Nov. 20
TEN YEARS AFTER

Check or money order to:
Duke University Major Attractions Committee Presents In Concert
Duke University Union
Box KM, Duke Station
Durham, N. C. 27706

$3.00, $3.00, $3.00, $3.00,
$3.50, $3.50, $3.50, $3.50,
$4.00 $4.00 $4.00 $4.00

Mail orders accepted immediately but not processed until 2 weeks before the concert. Send a self-addressed envelope.
