Page Two

September 8
November 16
November 17
November 18
November 20
November 23
November 23 - November 29
November 29
December 17
January 3
February 18
February 19
February 21
February 25
February 25
March 6
March 6
March 11
May 11
May 12
May 13
May 18
May 21

Academic Calendar 1971 - 1972

FALL TERM
Thursday, 8 a.m. Fall Term Classes Begin
Tuesday, 5 p.m. Fall Term Ends
Wednesday, 9 a.m. Pre-Examination Study Day
Saturday Fall Examinations Begin
Tuesday, 5 p.m. Examination Day
Tuesday, 5 p.m. Fall Examinations End
Monday, 8 a.m. Fall Term Recess Begins
(50 Class Periods)

WINTER TERM
Monday, 8 a.m. Fall Term Recess Ends
Friday, 5 p.m. Winter Term Begins
Monday, 8 a.m. Christmas Vacation Begins
Friday, 5 p.m. Christmas Vacation Ends
Saturday Winter Term Ends
Monday, 9 a.m. Pre-Examination Study Day
Friday, 5 p.m. Winter Examinations Begin
Friday, 5 p.m. Winter Examinations End
Monday, 8 a.m. Winter Term Recess Begins
(50 Class Periods)

SPRING TERM
Monday, 8 a.m. Winter Recess Ends
Saturday Spring Term Begins
Thursday, 5 p.m. Friday Classes
Friday Spring Term Ends
Saturday, 9 a.m. Pre-Examination Study Day
Thursday, 5 p.m. Spring Examinations Begin
Sunday Spring Examinations End
(50 Class Periods)

Commencement

New RHC Policy Coldly Rebuffed
By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

Academic Vice President John M. Bevan called the RHC's open dorms resolution an "usurpation of power." He said that ex-RHC Chairman Cecil Burney did not have the power to proclaim 24-hour open dorms.

"The hours defined for dorms are basic regulations, and there is a way we go about changing these regulations," Bevan said. He added that if the RHC wanted to change the present dorm hours, it should have brought the resolution before the faculty.

"By proclaiming open dorms, Cecil is usurping power which he does not possess, and from what I understand of him, Cecil is not one to usurp power," Bevan commented.

Asian Festival Features India's Jha

The west will be exposed to the east next week even if the twain are never to meet. Frederick H. Gaige, instructor of Asian studies, has organized Davidson's South Asian Festival "to concentrate some of the resources that we had to make this a major learning experience in the field of Asian studies."

Included in the program, which runs from Monday to Saturday, are speeches by the Indian ambassador to the United States, Lakshmi Kant Jha, and Professor Gerald Graham, a program of Indian music and an exhibition of Tibetan art.

Gaige explained that several groups at Davidson have combined to bring the individual features of the festival together. "Ambassador Jha is a Reynolds Lecturer and Dr. Graham is sponsored by the South Asian studies department and the history department. A film, 'Shakespeare Wallah,' is being shown in cooperation with the Fine Films Committee."

Gaige indicated that the Davidson festival would be one of the most ambitious of its type in this region of the country. "The University of North Carolina at Greensboro had a festival on the far east, but it was less elaborate than this, with two or three events," Gaige said.

In addition to the public events, the festival will include a colloquium for teachers of South Asian or general Asian subjects. The list of invitations for the colloquium was drawn from the North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia area.

On Saturday administrators from 28 different institutions, which either have or have expressed interest in developing Asian Studies programs, meet to discuss interinstitutional cooperation for the development of such studies. Gaige indicated that one of the

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
ADRIAN LONG
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

Copy Editors:
STEVE CROSS
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Contributions this week:
Dave Tierney, Steve Bennett, Charlie Terrell, Windy March, and Bill Harper.

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Ass't Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS
DARYL WILLIAMS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
ROGER MANLEY
SAMI RAMACHANDRAN
BOB STRAND

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.Points to be considered by the administrators would be student exchange programs in South Asia. Ambassador Jha will address the festival at 10 a.m. and at 8 p.m. on Thursday. A scholar, writer, and internationally respected development economist, Jha has served as the Indian representative to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Jha has served as Secretary to both Prime Ministers Shastri and Mrs. Indira Gandhi. Professor Graham, under whom Davidson’s Malcolm Lester once studied, will present a lecture, “Safeguarding the Route to India.” Graham is Professor Emeritus of Imperial History of the University of London and a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society. In addition to the two featured speakers, South Asian artistic forms will also be presented. 

“Shakespeare Wallah,” an internationally acclaimed feature film, will be shown in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. Tuesday. The feature is set in the days of the Indian overthrow of British rule and represents the struggles of an Indian Shakespearean company. All week, a display of Tibetan paintings will be shown in the Stowe Galleries. The paintings are on loan from the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts. The exhibition and all other events are free to the public. At 8 p.m. in the Morrison Room, Lal Mani Misra will perform a concert on the vichitra veena, a precursor of the sitar. Accompaniment on the tabla, or drums, will be provided by Iswar Lal Misra. Both are members of the music faculty of Banaras Hindu University. Edward Proctor will play the tamboura.

Dean of Students William H. Terry had no comment on the RHC’s action. “I would not like to make any comments at this time,” he said. Cecil Burney said that further action would be up to the administration. He felt that the RHC had made its position clear and that it was willing to stand by its decision. SGA Vice President Bill Alexander, the new chairman of the RHC, said, “I intend to support the decision of the RHC.” Alexander is to have a meeting with Dean Terry in the near future to discuss the matter of open dorms. Jody Turner, a member of the RHC and the Student Senate, believes that the RHC will not back down from its stand. He also expressed the opinion that if this matter is brought up before the Student Senate, it will give a vote of confidence to the RHC.

On February 4, the RHC, under the chairmanship of outgoing RHC President and SGA Vice President Cecil Burney, voted to declare the dormitories open to visitors around the clock. Previously, the policy of the RHC had been to neglect enforcement of dorm hours and see how open dorms would work on an unofficial basis before making the round-the-clock plan official.

Coed Program Fails to Grow

The coeducational exchange program is alive and well, though not growing. The number of girls who listed Davidson as their first choice on exchange applications has gone down from eleven last year to seven this year. The applications have spaces for first, second, and third choices from the schools participating. J. H. Ostwalt, who heads the exchange program at Davidson, said more applications were expected. Last year there were five applicants from Davidson to go to other schools. This year, eight Davidson students are applying, all to go to Hollins. If accepted, the eight will probably live together. The eight, all sophomores, are Bill Endy, Hy Lankenau, Mike Lippard, Robert Miller, David Mims, Dave Sengel, Dale Smith, and John Wackman.

When asked why he wanted to go to Hollins, Wackman’s first response was, “Chicks.” He also wants to take courses in geology and film-making not offered at Davidson. “Their curriculum is so much better than ours, it’s ridiculous,” said Wackman. All the prospective exchangees want to take advantage of the Hollins curriculum, as well as the prospects for female companionship. David Mims emphasized opportunities for “female companionship” as opposed to simply sex. “The main reason I’m going,” he said, “is that Davidson's perverted. Hollins is all women, and that’s perverted, too, but the only real solution for both is coeducation.” Dale Smith said he wished to take advantage of the progressive English department at Hollins, and to take courses offered there in fine arts, psychology, and political science. He also said, “I’m going there mainly for the same reason everybody else is, and if they don't say it’s sex, they’re lying.”