Vol. LX, No. Fourteen Published Weekly By Davidson College Students. Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 January 29, 1971

Clodfelter Captures Presidency
By GRAY WILSON
Asst. Managing Editor

Danny Clodfelter and Bob Edmunds stood outside the computer room Wednesday evening, shaking hands as the election returns were announced. “It’s not exactly a mandate. I don’t believe it,” said Edmunds. Clodfelter responded, “I'm glad it’s over; we’ve got to get to work now.”

The two top SGA positions were captured in a run-off with a record turnout of students at the polls. President-elect Clodfelter drew 70% of the votes over Cecil Burney after the five-way race narrowed down on the first ballot the day before. Edmunds edged out Bill Alexander by eight votes for vice-president.

Clodfelter was pleased with the attention which students gave to the campaign this year. “I was really glad that a couple of issues got brought out. This would not have happened if the competition had not been so tense.” He added that he hopes the SGA can become “more action-oriented and responsive to the needs of the students.”

Edmunds wants to revamp the structure of the Residence Hall Council (RHC). “I think we need to change the RHC so as to replace the present representatives with the senators.” He feels that this innovation will “streamline the activities of the RHC. I also want to establish in the dorms an apartment-style contract between the college and the student, but this all depends on the Code of Responsibility.”

Adrian Long was unopposed for the presidency of the YMCA, as was Paul Yarbrough for the treasury. Long wants to improve the off-campus status of the organization. “A new project is to expand the deputations and STEP programs. We are working for a youth center for junior and senior high students to provide jobs and pre-college counseling.” One other function of the new youth center would be to set up inter-church youth fellowship group meetings.

THE NEW SEATS OF POWER
Roommates Clodfelter and Edmunds relax after sweeping SGA elections.

Public Lectures Slated
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Staff Writer

The editor of a national literary magazine, the youngest United States Senator, and a German theology professor will be visiting Davidson in the next two weeks as a part of the college’s Public Lecture Series. All speeches are open to the public.

Next Thursday, Dr. Norman Cousins, editor of Saturday Review, will speak in Love Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. Saturday Review, with a circulation of 600,000, has been in the forefront of many vital issues over the past three decades. The pages of the magazine have been used extensively in discussion of nuclear weapons. Dr. Cousins once organized a fund to aid children who were orphaned by the American bombing of Hiroshima in 1945. He also heads a fund to aid Biafran children.

Cousins has written several books, including Modern Man As Obsolete in 1945 and Present Tense in 1967. He has also edited a book entitled Great American Essays. Cousins has received thirteen honorary degrees and numerous other awards, and was appointed to Mayor Lindsay’s Task Force on Pollution in 1966.

Senator Robert Packwood of Oregon, who defeated 24-year veteran Wayne Morse in 1968, will speak in Love Auditorium next Friday at 10:00 a.m. At the time of his election, Packwood was the youngest United States Senator. He is now a member of the Banking and Currency Committee, and serves on the President’s Commission on Population with Davidson student Steve Salyer. Packwood has introduced legislation to remove all restrictions against abortions in all states, and has moved to limit income tax dependent’s deductions to two children, this in an effort to encourage planned parenthood and smaller families.

On the following Tuesday, February 9, Dr. Dietrich Ritschl, a professor of theology at the University of Mainz in Germany, will speak at 10:00 a.m. in the Morrison Room in the Student Union. Ritschl has taught at Austin Presbyterian Seminary in Texas and at Pittsburgh Seminary. He has visited Davidson previously as an Otts Lecturer. Ritschl has been permitted to preach behind the Iron Curtain on many occasions, in the Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary. His main concerns are making traditional Christian doctrines meaningful to modern man, and promoting the survival of Christianity in Eastern Europe.in the area. Long added, "We also are trying to arrange a service information center on the draft."

In the election for vice-president of the YMCA, Wally Tinsley was the winner. Lester Strong defeated Howard Daniels in the run-off for President of the Union Board. Strong said he hopes the union can maintain its high standards by keeping "good strong people in the positions there."

In elections for campus publications, Don Parman and Russ Merritt gained 62% of the vote on the first ballot to defeat David Grissett for the editorship of THE DAVIDSONIAN. In a run-off, sophomore Ronnie Conoley defeated junior Zack Mobley for editor of the Quips and Cranks in an election in which only rising seniors were allowed to vote. Hal Mapes and Mike Frye will edit the Wildcat Handbook next year.

The following were elected in run-offs for the Honor Court: Nick Livengood and Jim Parish, '72; Dick Clay and Rob Krebs, '73; Dave Curtiss and Mark Monson, '74. Freshman advisors will be Phil Dotts and Jack Latimer.

More than 700 voters went to the polls Tuesday, and the run-off drew over 500 voters again, which is the usual number for the first ballot in past elections. Computer operator Tom Vernon attributed part of the turnout to the extra polling booth in the post office on Tuesday. "It would be a good place to go for students who never make it to Chambers because of classes in other buildings, and by keeping lists of names separate polls would still be safe from multiple voting."

Election returns were delayed Wednesday afternoon for over half an hour because a decision had to be made concerning the possibility of a recount. According to Vernon, a list of names was not kept for the run-off, leaving no way to validate actual counts. Considering the close vote of an election, any candidate may call for a recount within two weeks after the balloting. Since no recount can be made for the run-off, Vernon said that a candidate "may then call for another election to clear up the doubt."

ODK Raps Faculty Policy
By RICH WILSON: Asst. Managing Editor

Senior members of Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK), a leadership fraternity, walked into Tuesday’s faculty meeting before it convened and read a statement protesting faculty unwillingness to open their meetings to students.

"We, the senior members of Omicron Delta Kappa, are here today to demonstrate our opposition to meetings of the faculty which are not open to all segments of this college community," read the statement. "We feel that such a policy of governance denies proper representation and obstructs effective communication. Your meeting today demonstrates these concerns on your part. We too would like to discuss this problem but we will leave if asked."

The students retired from the room. After the meeting convened, the faculty passed a motion stating that the current meeting was rather long but that they would be glad to schedule a discussion with the ODK seniors at a subsequent meeting when this idea could be docketed as a regular matter of business, according to Samuel R. Spencer Jr., college president.

Members of ODK said that they specifically chose Tuesday’s meeting for their demonstration, since the faculty agenda included discussion concerning faculty consultation on administrative appointments. "Since the faculty was asking the administration to be consulted, we decided this would be a good time for students to ask the faculty to be consulted," said Ran Coble.

Those students who participated in the demonstration were John Bollinger, John Brunner, Gary Cash, Herb Clegg, Richard Cowart, Ed Dobbs, Gene Early, Peter Lutkin, Tom Opie, Alan Peterson, Cullum Rogers, and Jimmy Trussell. Seniors Gray Mason and Greg Scott did not participate.

In other action, the faculty passed a resolution expressing its dissatisfaction with what it felt to be inadequate faculty participation in the process of administrative appointments, according to Spencer. The motion also stated that the objections and dissatisfaction in no way reflected on the appointees (See FACULTY, Page 2).

Inside Davidson’s
William E. Jackson gives his interpretation of President Nixon’s State of the Union Address in a story on page two. The college will apparently make up the difference in football scholarship money this year according to Joe Earle’s story on page seven.

Editorials—4
Rowland—4
Allen—8
Sports—6