Vol. Published Weekly By Davidson College Students | Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

Despite opposition, the senate endorsed off-campus dining for fraternities 11-6. (Photo by Lyle)

Union Executive Board Halts ‘Groove Tube’ Show

The Executive Committee of the union board decided Monday to halt the showing of the film ‘Groove Tube’ after its
first run. The decision caused something of a stir in the union building. According to junior Mark Meza, a petition
to reverse the decision collected over 150 signatures in 15 minutes.

Lester Strong, president of the college union and chairman of the executive committee, said in an interview Tuesday that the
committee had “misled itself” as to the content of the film, in deciding to book the movie at Davidson. He
said that certain sexually explicit scenes made the movie “not the kind of thing which the executive committee wanted to
promote as entertainment. In other words,” he said, “the committee simply did not want to associate itself with gross movies
by promoting them as a union function. Sex was not our objection. But the sex handled in this film does
not measure up to be shown as ‘entertainment’ according to the aims and principles of the college community.”

When questioned about the role of C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, in making the decision, both Smith
and Strong emphasized that the committee made the decision on its own. “Mr. Smith asked for a meeting to discuss
the movie,” said Strong, “but the first to suggest canceling it was myself. Mr. Smith acts only in an advisory
capacity to our board, and has no veto power over our decisions.” Smith confirmed these statements, adding that he, too,
had misunderstood the nature of the film, and was originally very glad to be able to book the film at
the union. Union films are not ordinarily previewed before their showing.

As a result of the meeting Tuesday afternoon, the film was canceled. The meeting was attended by Smith, Strong, Duff
Bruce, Howard Ramagli, and Ray Mendenhall. Strong and Bruce, as members of the executive committee, held the only two votes.
Ramagli and Mendenhall are union board members. The union board as a whole met Tuesday night, and voted 5 to
5, with several absences, on whether to uphold the decision. Strong, as chairman of the union board, broke the tie
and cast the deciding vote in favor of the executive committee decision.

Senate Votes To Back Off-Campus Eating

By ALEC HOON
News Editor

The student Senate in its meeting Monday night gave a controversial endorsement to fraternity bid to petition the trustee social
committee to revoke the section of their decision on fraternities, allowing them to operate living or dining facilities off campus.

The decision to support the fraternities’ proposal passed by a Senate vote of 11-6 after more than an hour of
heated debate. But Senate President Danny Clodfelter was quick to add that “the senate’s action in no way means that
student government intends to abandon support for the new social system.” The proposal is now on the agenda of the
trustees Campus and Social Life Committee meeting set for May 13.

The part of the decision in question is section 7, which states: “Any fraternity which wishes to leave Patterson Court
and have its meetings elsewhere may do so, so long as its meeting place does not include the operation of
living or dining facilities.” Under the leadership of David Grissett, the senate-appointed Fraternity Mobilization Committee, seeking some solution...For the fraternities
who refused to accept the college’s new plan, a four-point compromise proposal was drawn up. The proposal would give the
houses moving off campus the right to maintain living and dining facilities, be subject to no unnecessary fees, and be
able to participate in such student organizations as the intramural athletic program. When Grissett brought the plan to the senate
floor for approval, he met vocal opposition, mainly from senators Mark Meza, Jody Turner, and Cecil Burney, who felt that
acceptance of the proposal would be detrimental to the chances of the new system. Meza said, “It defeats everything we
have been working for over the last ten years, and especially the last three.” “It will be a thorn in
the side of the new social system.”

The main point of contention was the clause stating that fraternities “retain the use of college facilities, excluding that of
the Patterson Court house as a fraternity house, as duly chartered student organizations, and remain as participants in other student
organization programs such as intramural sports.” After much debate, a motion to delete this section passed by a vote of
9-5. Debate continued on the remainder of the plan with Senate Vice President Bill Alexander and freshman senator Bill Ralston
being the most vocal proponents. “This bill only gives fraternities the right to go off campus; there are no new
rights involved,” said Alexander. “It gives all individuals (See SENATE, Page 8).

Financial Squeeze Is On
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

A critical financial squeeze is primarily responsible for the increases in tuition, room, and board for next year, according to
Vice President of Finance and Development C. David Cornell. Commenting on specific reasons for the hike in costs, Cornell said,
“The budget picture is so tight, we just had to make certain increases.” Cornell cited a number of reasons for
the $235 increase in tuition and fees. “Some of this money will be used to maintain faculty salaries,” he said,
“while another part of this sum will be used to absorb the increased costs of general materials. Library costs have
just rocketed with 10 percent increases a year. Since the library is essential to the operation of a good college,
a portion of this tuition increase will be routed in this direction,” he said.

Cornell also noted that Davidson is “very dependent” on revenue from its endowment. Because of the general economic situation, however,
the college is no longer receiving as much from its endowment as it used to. That the college will lose
approximately $30,000 on the cafeteria service this year is the reason for the $50 increase in the board fee, according
to Cornell. Expenses for employment of Slater Food Service and maintenance of kitchen facilities total approximately $195,000 a year. However,
the college only grossed $157,500 on the sale of meal tickets. “Obviously the college cannot afford a $30,000 deficit; consequently,
the board increase of $50 is an attempt to break even on the food service,” he said. “Compounding the problem
is the terrific price of staple food items. Wholesale costs have gone out of sight.” Cornell said the cafeteria service
was competitive in price with other schools as well as with local eating establishments.

Inflation, renovations, and wage increases account for the $50 increase in room rent. “We have not had an increase in
room rent for two years,” said Cornell. “With a steady inflationary factor of 4-5 percent, $30 of the $50 increase
will be eaten up by inflation alone. The demand of the recent generation of students for more of the amenities
of life is responsible for money needed for dorm renovations. The student emphasis on dorm remodeling has been more acute
in the past four years than was the case previously. We have, therefore, had to increase the fund for renovation
and refurbishing dormitories. A portion of the $50 room rent increase will be added to this fund. The coming year
will be a critical one financially,” Cornell said. “We will have to review our goals and objectives as well as
look for ways of increasing our efficiency.”

CORNELL ... tuition increases.
