The Bavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR FEBRUARY 19, 1971

Fraternity Rights

As ironical as it may seem, the national fraternities have suddenly found themselves fighting against “the system” for the rights of the individual student to choose his own group of associates rather than having them chosen for him.

For too many years to remember, the fraternities were themselves “the system” at Davidson, and with their procedures of selection and exclusion, there was little chance of such individual student’s rights being considered. However, those days are now gone forever. Now it is the fraternities whose rights are being threatened. In their attempts to find housing and eating facilities independent from the college, they have run into the obstacle of a discriminatory administrative policy.

For several reasons, it would be wise for the college to reconsider its position concerning off-campus fraternities. Not the least of these is the fact that in a court of law, if it should ever come to that, the fraternities would probably win.

Furthermore, the college has been trying to promote the concept of a “college community” which would include the surrounding town. It seems that groups of students living as neighbors with the townsfolk would be the best system for developing honest relations between the town and the students.

Also, the idea that the college should have control over students associating together in self-selective groups off the Davidson campus is repulsive. Any college administration that attempts to keep its students on campus where it can maintain control over them deserves everything that it gets—and more.

In Search Of Diversity

The current upheaval on the campus over the appearance of Rennie Davis at Davidson and the recent appearances of William Sloan Coffin and Kate Millett at Queens, raise the question of Davidson speakers in general.

As fine as the faculty of any given college may be, off-campus speakers play an important role in the overall educational experience for the individual. These outside speakers are counted on to provide fresh perspectives and different areas of professional expertise.

The speakers for the last several years at Davidson seem to have fallen short, at times, of this mark. There are several sources of speakers on this campus including the Reynolds Lecture Committee, the SGA Senate, the Public Lecture Committee, the Piedmont Lectures Committee, and the various departments. After a term or two of inactivity, the Senate has contacted Davis, James Kilpatrick, and William F. Buckley.

Since the individual department can sponsor lectures, (for example, the Honors College brought Peter Heath to campus), the more public committees should not be primarily interested in the more academically inclined speakers and should try to engage their choices from the non-academic community.

It is unfortunate that the Piedmont Lecture Committee did not select Coffin as one of its choices. Coffin represents the type of speaker that Davidson needs to hear more often, personally involved in the current events we hear about on the news.

An historical approach to the race problem would certainly be interesting to hear from a history or sociology department-sponsored speaker, but the Public Lectures Committee should seek to bring someone involved in the reality of the situation, a Mayor Lindsay or Judge McMillan of Charlotte, for example.

Davidson College deserves to hear contemporary speakers from the podium as well as the television set or printed page.

DICK ANDERSON

Real Issue In Davis Fuss Concerns Senate’s Duties

This week's burning campus issue has been the SGA Senate's invitation to Rennie Davis to speak at Davidson. Chip Durant, who was last mentioned in THE DAVIDSONIAN when he appeared in the list of SPE pledges three years ago, has cast himself as the charismatic leader of a movement to prevent Davis’ appearance. His efforts drew a television appearance on WBTV, stories in the Observer, and a flock of letters from trustees, alumni, a WBTV news staffer, and even one area churchwoman, who characterized Davis as the “anti-Christ.”

Surprisingly, the college administration has reacted—actually, failed to react—with feathers unruffled. Dean of Students Will Terry told me he really didn’t care. President Sam Spencer's statement only established, in less than perfect grammar, that legally the college was not responsible for a speaker's ditherings and could not ban him for them, that Davidson would not endorse Rennie Davis officially, that in his opinion the students had been foolish but not especially so, and that he was glad the Senate planned to give equal time to somebody from the other side.

The new fund-raiser, David Cornell, commented that in his opinion having Davis speak would do no harm to fund-raising, despite the implication asserting the contrary. Cornell’s opinion was based on experience in similar situations at other colleges, and of course Davidson is a special case, but I suspect that Durant’s letter writers really do not represent the people who contribute much of the college's operating funds.

This problem of representation has been the central point of Durant’s ad hoc movement. He claims the Senate which invited Davis originally—the one which just went out of office—was unrepresentative.of its constituency, especially in this case, Durant rests his definition of "unrepresentative" on what he claims to be the central issue in modern political science: whether Burke’s idea of concern for the group interest or the concept of the elected leaders forming their policies on the basis of popular opinion should direct the acts of elected bodies. It impresses me as being somewhat odd that the central question in modern politics should be concerned with the writings of an eighteenth-century conservative; I thought Walter Lippman had exorcised that devil long ago.

But Durant resurrected it Monday at the Senate meeting; having failed to carry a motion to reverse the previous Senate’s decision (in a roll-call vote there were already enough votes against the motion to defeat it before the first affirmative voice was heard), Durant submitted a petition signed by enough students (one-tenth of the student body) to call for a referendum on the matter. This is the central issue of the Mavis Durant controversy. If the SGA Senate is to have prestige and whatever meaning it can scrape together, then its elected members must be allowed to make decisions. It is foolish to go through all this election rigmarole if on all substantive issues a referendum has to be held. (All Durant’s other points merely becloud this question. Very few Davidson speakers cost significantly less than a thousand dollars; that is the going rate. It is too much, but so are Ralph Quackenbush’s cheeseburgers at the Hub which we consume in large numbers. One of Durant’s letter writers commented that free speech meant the right of reasonable, responsible people to be heard on an issue, an opinion which I denounce, abhor, reject, and abjure but which is also irrelevant. Whether Davis is in any way articulate is also beside the point. There is a rumor to the effect that he is a lousy speaker (the veracity of which I cannot judge), but Davidson has had enough poor speakers before. Anyway, the real question is whether students are going to allow the elected representatives to perform their functions, one of which is to invite speakers of their choice to the campus. I think we ought to. After all, those earnest fellows at Senate meetings have so few ways of attaining fulfillment. Out of compassion we should leave them the ones they have, if for no better reason.

Secrecy Puzzles Anxious

It was a warm afternoon in late May. Davidson at its best. The campus was dotted with sunbathers on beach towels. But I was not out enjoying the sun: I was sitting on the floor in the hall in front of the Baxter Davidson Room waiting. It was 4:30 and I had been waiting for several hours. Waiting to be admitted for a few precious moments to the faculty meeting going on behind the closed doors of the Baxter Davidson Room. The faculty was taking a final vote on a proposal to allow students on the Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid. Ran Coble and I had been asked to wait outside in case during the discussion (which we were not allowed to hear) questions arose. We waited. For two and one-half hours we waited, eyes lifted up hopefully every time a faculty member scuttled in or out, but we never were asked in. The Director of Admissions was allowed in during the discussion to present evidence hostile to the proposal. But we were never called. The measure was defeated. We could not be told (under the provisions of the faculty constitution) who had opposed it or why they had. A few professors whispered to us of our having been stabbed in the back and of backlash to Kent State/Cambodia activities. But all we knew for sure was that we students had waited and we had lost. Almost a year has passed, and we're still waiting outside and listening through the door. I asked one faculty member last year why their meetings were closed. "It's a matter of freedom of speech," he explained. "The faculty wants to be able to express their opinions freely and without fear of outside pressure." Closed meetings also allow the faculty to keep the fate of Davidson College, for all practical purposes, tightly within its grasp, to keep faculty and students forever on opposite sides of closed doors, and to keep specious and insupportable arguments from being traced back to men who pride themselves on their logic. People at Hollins laughed at my waiting. "I thought closed faculty meetings went out with wearing academic gowns to class," one professor here told me. But it is unfair to say that faculty meetings are completely open here. Only fifty students can attend any one faculty meeting. Which we learned of only by—. Just for laughs, visit your favorite professor Monday and ask him why faculty meetings are closed. You can tell him that if he’s willing to put his reasons in writing, he can have my next column to enlighten everyone. I'm serious. All I ask is that he let me know so I won't have to write one, too. I’m at Box 9312, Hollins College, Va. 24020.