Page Two October 8, 1971

(Staff photo by Erwin)

A DONATION FOR PEACE

Davidson Artist Ken Freed contributed $180 to the coffers of the Peace Coalition Wednesday by offering for sale 10 paintings and six drawings. Although the works were underpriced, Coalition spokesman Ralph Peeples said that Freed’s contribution greatly helped the Moratorium effort.

Co-Curricular Council Seeks Social, Cultural Coordination

By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

There is presently a faculty constitution revision recommendation being considered which will have far-reaching effects on the social and cultural life of Davidson students. It is being proposed that a Co-Curricular Education Board be established which will plan, coordinate, and implement a campus program of public lectures, art presentations, and special events such as the big weekends.

During academic year 1970-1971, there were 140 cultural and academic presentations sponsored by 12 groups and organizations. The average attendance at these events was 126, and the average cost per performance was $239.65 or $2.01 per person. In other words, the 140 performances were attended by a total of 16,670 at a total cost of $33,552. This is not to imply that these were 16,670 different people. Also, a lecturer may have given 3 or 4 presentations on campus, and in this case, they are treated as separate events. If ROTC events, student recitals which cost nothing, free lectures, and ticket sales and student appropriations for fine arts programs are subtracted, there are 140 performances which attracted 15,070. The College provided $26,787, and the average attendance was 120. Students contributed $4,750 and $1,765 was obtained through ticket sales for the

Inter-Eating Club Council Planned To Replace IFC

By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

Student Body Vice President Bill Alexander is currently in the process of establishing an Inter-Eating Club Council to replace the now-defunct Inter-Fraternity Council. The Inter-Eating Club Council will consist of the presidents and treasurers of each of the ten houses now on the court.

“Of course there will be no rush, and the College’s policy in regard to the court has been established for the most part,” said Alexander. “I have spoken with Dean Terry about the function of the IECC, and it appears that he wishes to relinquish some of his control over the court,” commented Alexander.

Alexander indicated that once the Inter-Eating Club Council is established it will have expanded powers. Dean of Students Will H. Terry will retain veto power over the actions of the IECC, and the IECC could not contradict the policy of the College, Alexander said. The Inter-Eating Club Council will have at its disposal $10,000 per year. These will be funds provided by the College, and they will be used to maintain the buildings and grounds of the court, Alexander indicated.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
CECIL BURNEY
TODD HOBBIE
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
DAVID HANIG

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Photography Editor:
JOHN DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON
ALEC HOON

Copy Editors:
BOBBIE BLACKWOOD
JAMES HANNA

Contributors This Week:
Tom Ainsworth, Tom Bruce, John Kepchar, Bill Morris, Thom Nicoll, and Eric Vernon.

Advertising Manager:
WHIT WHITWORTH

Assistant Copy Editor:
BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY

Asst. Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER
CHARLIE TERRELL
HOWARD BOYD

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
TERRY HIRST
STEVE BALCUM

Circulation Managers:
STEVE SHEPHERD
GREG MITCHELL

Photographers:
BILL BARNES
FRANK ERWIN
PAUL HORWITZ
TOM CAMPBELL

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

“The IECC will delegate money to all the eating clubs on a fair basis. Naturally, this money will not be used for social functions,” said Alexander. The IECC will elect from among its members its chairman, and Alexander will have no official ties with the IECC.artist: series. The Union spent $2,307.87 for movies and $18,249.56 for entertainment. The Administration has cited poor attendance at these events and has suggested that if these events were rarer, they would be better appreciated and attended. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan believes that a central committee administering the combined budgets for cultural events will best meet the needs of students, faculty, and administrators. The Co-Curricular Education Board will develop and maintain a proper balance between the different types of programs and events. It will control scheduling and develop a master calendar of programs and events. Also, it will provide publicity for coming attractions. The Co-Curricular Education Board will be composed of 6 faculty members, 4 administrators, and 7 student members. Bevan indicated that there were no ulterior motives behind the numerical makeup of the board. Four sub-committees will be an integral part of the Co-Curricular Education Board. These will be the performing and visual arts, speakers, social (in social events), and special areas (convocations and conferences). The chairman of the board will be the director of Co-Curricular Activities, and the present indication is that Director of the Union C. Shaw Smith will be chairman. “We believe that with coordination of events we can achieve what is best for Davidson,” said Bevan. He continued, “With greater coordination we hope to draw larger crowds.” Student Government Association President Danny Clodfelter, though agreeing with the basic idea of the Co-Curricular Education Board, does not believe social activities and educational ones should compete for the same funds. “Social and educational programs provide two distinct types of functions,” Clodfelter said. “Up to this time the College Union has done a good job of coordinating the social activities for students, and I see no reason to change this,” he added. Clodfelter pointed out that it appears that most of the money for the budget of the board will come from student social fees. There is the possibility that the lecture series might benefit at the expense of the social life of students.

Alumni Maintain Status Quo
By THOM NICOLL

Davidson alumni recently re-elected three incumbents to remain on the Board of Trustees as alumni representatives, Alumni Director Howard Arbuckle announced this week. William White, Jr., president of Charter Properties, Inc. of Charlotte, Henry Bahnson, Professor of Surgery at the University of Pittsburgh, and Jack P. Etheridge, Superior Court Judge of Atlanta, were chosen from a field of eight candidates by mail-in ballots. Attorney Larry J. Dagenhart claimed the presidency-elect of the National Alumni Association. Arbuckle termed the twenty-five percent alumni response “typical” and stated that the results did not indicate any particular voting trends. Though student body president Danny Clodfelter was defeated, the returns did not represent a reaction against the younger candidates, Arbuckle said. Clodfelter polled 24 percent of the total number of votes which any one candidate could receive. Another young candidate for trustee, Daniel Carrell, '63, received an impressive 38.4 percent. Bahnson, who graduated from Davidson summa cum laude in 1941 and from Harvard cum laude in 1944, is a fellow of the American College of Surgeons and a past president of the Society of University Surgeons. Etheridge, a 1949 graduate of Davidson, is a representative of Fulton County in the Georgia General Assembly. He is also Director of the Legal Aid Society, and a member of the Governor's State Crime Commission. White, class of 1952, served as national co-chairman of the Ford Challenge Campaign, and as president of the Alumni Association. Dagenhart is past president of the Wildcat Club and a member of the securities committee of the American Bar Association. The three trustees elected by the alumni will serve four years. Of the fifty-one trustees, twelve are alumni representatives. The remainder are appointed by Presbyterian synods in North Carolina and Florida. Thomas Earnhardt and Mac Morris, defeated for the Alumni Association presidency, will automatically become vice presidents, he said.