Vol. LX, No. Twelve ° Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 January 15, 1971 ©

Frats To Be Restudied

In an unprecedented move, the Trustee Executive Committee last night decided to review their social guidelines of this fall and to temporarily relieve Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. of his duties as college president pending the outcome of the review. Warner L. Hall, board chairman, apparently called the meeting in order to consider revoking the trustee's decision of last fall concerning the new social system, according to sources close to the chairman. Hall reportedly said, “The trustees had no idea that so many students wished fraternities to remain on campus. When we heard that 40 percent of the freshmen pledged thirty percent of the fraternities, we couldn't believe it.

“Dr. Spencer and his assistant gave us the impression that the students wanted this change. Our understanding was that the fraternity system was about to collapse.

“We are not firing Dr. Spencer," Hall reportedly said, “We're merely bidding him a temporary farewell. This idea of reviewing a president's tenure is one we picked up from some of the Ivy League schools of whom Davidson is the southern counterpart.”

Spencer had received advance notice of the special trustee meeting the day before. He immediately released a statement announcing that the college had received a $1 million grant to be used for the implementation of the social

Oscar Gant, controversial Davidson squirrel hunter, has been contacted to appear on “American Sportsman.” Gant was contacted by Curt Gowdy, host of the series, who said that the hunt, filmed last week, will be aired later in the spring. Also on the special “rodent show” are New York Mayor John Lindsay trapping rats in Harlem and the Joint Chiefs of Staff napalming prairie dogs in Kansas. (Staff Photo by Manley)

Popular singing star Andy Kim and some “major departures from traditional ‘big weekend’ format” will highlight Midwinter’s activities (Feb. 5, 6, and 7) according to Social Chairman Stuart Shelton. Shelton revealed this week that the contract with Kim was final and that the singing star would appear in Love Auditorium on Saturday night of Midwinter’s. Shelton admitted that Kim’s music is “frankly bubblegum” but felt that he was the type of personality Davidson has welcomed often in the past and that he would prove to be a real hit himself. Director of the Union C. Shaw Smith said he had seen Kim perform and that the singer “really put on a great show for the kids.” The performance to which he was referring was in the Charlotte Coliseum in 1966 when Kim was invited by the Big WAYS radio station to appear in its annual Christmas parade. That was the same year Kim first gained national acclaim with his hit, “Shoot-em Up Baby.”

As for the other changes Shelton has planned, he and Union Board Chairman Weldon Schenck said they will try to answer some of the criticisms which have been leveled at the Davidson social system in recent months. Simply, they decided to eliminate those events from the schedule which were traditionally poorly attended and concentrate the money saved on more events of the kind which seem to be most popular. Shelton said that the events eliminated included the post-concert dances in Chambers basement, the mini-concerts in the Morrison room and the Union Bar, and the early breakfasts in the cafeteria. (Poor attendance and a

Hit Inside.

A special DAVIDSONIAN supplement today investigates the reaction of campus figures to the thought-provoking question, “What would you do with a million dollars?” Replies from such campus figures as Grover Meetze, Geraldine Dwyer, Emil Parker, Tim Timmons and Mrs. K. Kleeburg. This is a lampoon.

Editorials throughout

Aristotle

Sports

ECOLOGY? series.system. But this move failed to affect the trustees. Spencer was unavailable for comment; however, the response from other administration officials was one of shock. Assistant to the President Peter H. Hobbie said that his imagination has been staggered by the trustees' decision, and then he screamed, “I will not compromise on the social system. Fraternities are evil, evil, evil. I had the power. IT had the power to change them but...”. Hobbie abruptly retreated to his office for a glass of milk. When Vice President of Academic Affairs John M. Bevan heard of the plans, a lot of headaches for the social staff were the hallmarks of these events,” said Schenck, “and we are really glad to get them off our backs.” The extra money, according to Shelton and Schenck, will bring back three performances that have been real crowd pleasers for the Davidson community. (See JUMP Page 8)

Sentimental, he lapsed into a violent state of pen clicking. He was unavailable for further comment. Dean of Students William Terry was seen praying at his desk while muttering, “God forgive them for they know not what they do." Several members of the faculty were furious that they were not consulted about Spencer's dismissal. They petitioned Hall for a meeting but were told that he had just left for Africa to advise the University of Tanzania in setting up a board of trustees. He will be gone six weeks. One faculty member confided at this moment, “It’s funny,” he said, “While the students used to call Dr. Spencer Slick Sam, the faculty called him ‘Steamroller Sam.’ We all hope this is just a temporary thing but don't quote me."

When Lyman Parrigan, spokesman for the fraternities, heard of the firing he shouted, “Hurrah! As far as I am concerned this leaves any DAVIDSONIAN editorial criticism invalid. The trustees realized what a great freshman class this college has,” said the carrot-topped student leader. “This freshman class didn't deserve random assignment.” Freshman class President Bill Ralston was unavailable for comment, but his vice president was seen doing cartwheels in the direction of the SAE house.

The response from Patterson Court was somewhat different. Kappa Alpha is keeping their response a secret, but informed sources say that the KA president was seen waving a confederate flag while leading his fraternity in a few “wheat, barley, hay's.” The Phi Gams were heard grunting in unison, the Phi Delts held an orgy, and the SAE's were too drunk to (See SPENCER, Page 2)

Paper Proofreading Wins

“You've got to admit they can still spell,” conceded a judge for the Associated Collegiate Press in awarding THE DAVIDSONIAN a Second Class Honor Rating in the Association's fall college newspaper competition. The newspaper suffered heavily at the hands of the judges in the areas of coverage and content, writing and editing, editorial leadership, and photography. In these fields, THE DAVIDSONIAN received only five percent of the possible points. In physical appearance, however, the newspaper received a perfect score because of its flawless proofreading. In all, the paper amassed 1019 points out of a possible 4,000.

Commenting on the judges’ scathing report, Editor-in-Chief Ed Shoaf noted, “You have to be skeptical of a report such as this one. Only the comments on our proofreading really stand up to a careful analysis.” Shoaf pointed out that THE DAVIDSONIAN has long been known for its excellent copy reading. “We actually make fewer mistakes than some of the really tough professional newspapers including ‘The Charlotte Observer,’” Shoaf said. “As for the other areas,” Shoaf said, “I'm really not sure the judges had everything straight. Perhaps they confused us with another paper. At any rate, I'm sure our photography score will go up just as soon as our men get going on the full-page photos for the front page.”