Davidson College reached one-half of its annual goal of 400 pints in the Red Cross Blood Drive held Wednesday in
Chambers Banquet Hall. Capt. Theodore Severn of the ROTC Department, who coordinated the drive, expressed the hope that the additional
200 pints would be collected in the spring.

All Students Allowed Use Of Honors College Building
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

So now that the Carolina Inn looks like a palace on the inside and a restored building on the outside,
who uses it? Who is allowed to use it?

“The building is intended for the use of the honors college student,” said Dean of the Honors College Frontis W.
Johnston. “Other events are certainly permitted here when cleared through this office, but as to the individual, I do not
conceive of the building as off-limits for anyone else.”

The old inn was renovated at a cost of $70,000, and just last week a number of final items were
added, including draperies, dining room tables, seminar tables upstairs, and other furniture. Johnston remarked that dining room chairs and utensils
for the kitchen were still not in yet, but except for some landscaping in the rear of the building, everything
else was complete.

Some outside groups have already used the facilities. Over Homecoming, a party was thrown for the parents of the football
players on Saturday night. Last Monday the Poetry Circuit, a Union Board function, held a workshop downstairs. There had been
no trouble with this last year when the honors college set up a room on the ground floor of Eu
Hall.

In the future, Johnston would like to see a TV lounge upstairs, but until that time, elaborate plans for the
building are now at a close.

The Davidsonian
October 29, 1971
Page Three

Debate Team Reveals Ability To Argue On Current Issues
By THOM NICOLL
Staff Writer

One varsity team at Davidson grants no scholarships, practices in Eu Hall, and maintains a healthy record against schools from
all over the South and East. And though the alumni are somewhat less excited about it than football and basketball,
the Davidson debate team seems to be on something of an upswing.

Marshalling all of their reason and rhetorical prowess on one question during the first quarter, the debaters have come out
of two matches with an 8-6 record and will enter two important events within the next two weeks. The national
debate topic, chosen by the American Forensic Association is “Resolved: that greater controls should be imposed on the gathering and
utilization of information about U.S. citizens by governmental agencies.”

According to the team's new coach, Mrs. Jean Cornell, the team never knows until the moment of the debate whether
it will speak for the affirmative or negative; thus the debaters must be prepared with well-researched material for either supporting
or refuting the argument.

The debaters’ first engagement of the year was a N.C. Debate Conference held at Lenoir Rhyne. Davidson took five of
the six debates entered, competing against such schools as Wake Forest, Pembroke, and Appalachian.Stairs for a visiting poet. The town
has been involved too. The Community Relations Committee has scheduled its meetings to take place in the “The important thing
is that the events be scheduled,” Johnston said. “Experience will have to indicate how much we can open our facilities
to other campus activities, but regardless, they must be cleared ahead of time on the calendar. “Of course,” Johnston added,
“We will have honors college sessions ourselves when we get settled, but we have no more elaborate facilities in mind
for the present.” Johnston commented that if anyone adopted the building for his personal study, he certainly would not evict
them because they were not a part of the honors college. He added that

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA GUS’S ORIGINAL
FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

The Davidson students who spoke at Lenoir Rhyne included Rich Damewood, Bill Eskridge, Les Phillips, Paul Mitchell, John Douglas, and
Thomas Kent. Last weekend, Eskridge and Douglas won three of the eight debates they entered in a match at Chapel
Hill. The opposing entries included Maryland, Annapolis, John Hopkins, and others. On Nov. 5-7, Eskridge, Phillips, Douglas, and Kent will
participate in one of the most famous debating events in the country, the “Peachtree Debate” at Emory. Generally, all of
the debates consist of eight to 10 rounds, each lasting about an hour, their final and octo-finals. All of the
speakers are judged and given critiques on their arguments and delivery. Some events also include contests in oral interpretation of
literature and extemporaneous speaking. This year, after some time without a debate coach, the college gave Mrs. Cornell that position,
besides her speech teaching duties.

Junior Bill Eskridge, a third-year debater, provided in ringing tones a demonstration of the effects of so much debating. “First
of all, the essential purpose of debating at Davidson College is to foster the ability of a student to argue
coherently a subject which he has researched. In addition, the values are as follows: One, debating aids one’s ability to
reason. It teaches one to see both sides of an issue. Second, it aids one in developing the skills of
organization in speaking and in writing. Third, debating enables one to develop his speaking ability. For instance, all but the
first affirmative speech are to a certain degree extemporaneous. Fourth, debating aids one in learning research techniques, which is essential
for many areas of graduate work.” Eskridge pointed to the team’s winning record, and stated, “I feel certain that this
year we will end our season with a better record than the football team.”

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.—Wed. 9 to 12—Sun. 9:30 to 10:30
Telephone 892-2111
Davidson, N. C., 131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries
Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Cashion’s Food Mart
Open 8:00 A.M. - 9:00 P.M.
Monday - Saturday
Special Case Prices on Beer

Salads “After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat 12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room
Desserts

PRICE $1.00
SPAGHETTI DINNER
TOSSED SALAD
ASSORTED DRESSINGS
FRENCH BREAD
ICE CREAM
BEVERAGE
STUDENT UNION SNACK BAR
SATURDAY 5 p.m. - 6 p.m.
