* Che Bavidsonian "THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY. AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
- —Marshall McLuhan RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief JIM PHILLIPS, Business Manager PAGE FOUR APRIL 2, 1971 Hear No Evil...
Whatever students might have thought that the Rennie Davis issue settled with respect to freedom of expression on the Davidson
College campus passed by the boards on Monday with the cancellation of “Groove Tube.” The issue which needs to be
raised in cases such as the Davis speech and the decision Monday goes beyond particulars. It is of secondary importance
that the movie may or may not have been obscene or boring, creative or humorous. The key issue is the
range of college-sponsored experiences to which Davidson students will be exposed in their four years here. It is a judgment
on the part of the members of the executive committee of the college union that the film did not represent
the type of thing which they cared to promote. This implies a position among the members of the committee that
they have been elected to use their own judgments and values in deciding what kind of entertainment will be available
to the students here. With the movie here it certainly seems that more than the twenty students and social committee
members might have been permitted to see the “gross movie” and form their own judgments in the matter. The union
board should be required to make a statement of its precise interpretation of its role on the campus. If it
intends to serve as Sunday school for the other six days of the week, it should make that intention known.
Lester Strong as president of the union board has indicated that he initiated the cancellation decision on the grounds that
‘Groove Tube’ was not the kind of entertainment that the union board could support and endorse, therefore it should not
be shown. As the charter does not specify what kind of entertainment the union is to “endorse,” such interpretation lies
with the board to make, an interpretation which the board has not made. It should be made clear to the
union that others have interests in entertainment which may not be the same as C. Shaw Smith’s and that these
could be shown to let others make up their minds as well. Making Ends Meet? There are two important problems
which face most small, private colleges these days, financial straits and the problem of student-faculty-administration dialogue. In its role as
archetypal small, private (not to mention Presbyterian, liberal arts and male) college, Davidson has come full face against these difficulties.
So far we have mastered neither. The latest increases in the costs of attending Davidson are understandable from an economic
standpoint, if you have been fortunate enough to hear the word on the economy and the college from an administrator
in the financial section. They are much harder to justify in terms of dialogue which would seem to be a
characteristic of a college community. The administration has let the financial situation deteriorate before it has responded as it has
in the past year with the appointment of personnel with the responsibility for finding funds for the college. In the
meantime it is the faculty and particularly the students which have borne the brunt of the inflationary forces at work
in the country. No more faculty members seem destined to rise to the rank of full professor because of the
additional funds which the position demands in terms of salary. Just this year President Spencer has gone before the faculty
to explain that salary increases would be at best minimal since the college is caught by the same inflationary forces
which the faculty members meet in the grocery store. It is the students who have been hardest hit, however. Since
the college has stopped guaranteeing the costs to the individual for all four years that his class is at Davidson,
costs have risen steadily each year. In a decision which has as much direct impact on students as the recently
announced price increases, the administration has not seen fit to consult with the students at all, explaining only after the
fact. Burney, Rowland Attack Union Censorship Decision The Union has done it again. The Union has proclaimed that we are
babies. The Union has decided that we should live in a womb, protected from all evil. The Union wants us
to live in the land of “in loco parentis.” C. Shaw Smith and his cronies have protected us from “Groove
Tube.” Lester Strong, Duff Bruce, and C. Shaw Smith banned “Groove Tube” on grounds that it was not up to
the standards of other Union programs.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

programs which did measure up to the standards of the Union regime:

1. Ma Ho Pin, who in scanty attire, pranced up one skinny rope to the top of Watts and slithered
down another to the awe of those below.

2. The late “Boros the Great,” a pole sitter, who after several sits at Davidson fell for a shopping center
crowd.

3. A card shark billed as “Dick Snavely—Short-Sleeved Magician” (an old friend of Shaw Smith) who we discovered, after a
few tricks, was playing with less than a full deck.

4. A baby elephant brought four years ago for an appearance in the Morrison Room where his main trick was
to take a dump in a shovel.

5. Several of Uncle Sam’s big ugly paratroopers excreted themselves from the sky to drop in on this year's homecoming.

6. Highlights from the cinema have included a continuing series of Annette Funicello and Frankie Avalon movies. Also, it seems
that the Union holds a lifetime subscription to all the John Wayne classics.

7. A potpourri of circus sideshows ranging from kiddie rides to a man whose special talent was to play a
saw.

8. Just this last week, we have seen members of the Union Board in a magnificent puppet act, with Shaw
Smith pulling the strings. Lester, Duff, and Shaw said “Groove Tube” was not in good taste, but we say that,
given our druthers, we would rather see “Groove Tube” than such things as an elephant going pooh-pooh.

The point is, of course, that we are no longer babies. We should no longer be subjected to people who
try to shove pacifiers into our mouths and put blinders onto our eyes. Behind all of the recent difficulty with
“Groove Tube” lies what might be called the “Spencer Ethic.” The Spencer Ethic endorses a policy of prudery and snobbery.
It is a rather elusive phenomenon, and one certainly has to be on one’s toes to watch for it.

The Spencer Ethic emerged most clearly last spring when Spencer, Shaw Smith, and Rupert Barber ganged up on a play
written by a talented Davidson student. They claimed the play was “blasphemous,” and they barred it from a performance in
the Morrison Room. Our administrative friends claimed that the College had a responsibility to the “C.C.C.” (Continuing College Community—Sarah Penland,
Del Logan, and Lucy Johnston, co-chairmen) to purge the campus of blasphemy and all that is wrong, bad, and evil.
In supporting the C.C.C., the administration decided that the concept of academic freedom as far as Davidson was concerned was
unnecessary. The fate of this student play last year is so similar to the fate of “Groove Tube” that it
seems the administration is about to make censorship an annual event. Perhaps we shall see this done in the form
of a program held each spring, planned by the Union Board. Unfortunately, Smith and Company show imagination in most things
and particularly in planning programs, so we shall have only one program:

Place: Morrison Room.
Time: Certainly before midnight, for most of the evil in the world occurs after midnight.
Cast of Characters: Smith and Company.
Theme: Spencership.

So far this year, Spencer has been slick enough to stay out of the act. But we suspect he is
behind the scenes acting as stage manager and prompter.

It has become increasingly clear that censorship happens all the time as Smith and the Union Board “pick and choose”
what we are allowed to see or not see. Furthermore, it has become painfully clear from the wasting of $500
on the cancellation of “Groove Tube” that C. Shaw and his Union Board take lightly their responsibilities to administer our
funds wisely. One example of Mr. Smith's wasting of money was seen last year when he used money brought in
as profit from a jukebox in the Union to buy a refrigerator for his office. (After some protest, Smith finally
agreed to let some of the other employees of the Union use the refrigerator.) Another example is that several hundred
dollars were squandered on an elaborate stereo system for Smith's office, which he claims is necessary for the pre-viewing of
tapes sent by groups which might perform at Davidson.

We certainly must ask why there was no preview of “Groove Tube” before $500 was spent. And we must ask
why it is necessary for Shaw to have such an expensive stereo system for his office. Could not he do
his previewing on cheaper equipment? C. Shaw billed his magic mice “Colon and Semicolon,” making use of his first (Christian)
name. But now his two...
