Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR APRIL 9, 1971:

Whose Guilt?

The war goes on. Behind the Calley verdict and the inevitable reactions to it, behind the most recent White House and Pentagon propaganda concerning more withdrawals and de-escalation and success, behind all the new facts, figures, opinions, charges and counter-charges being tossed around in “relevant conversation,” this one reality continues to stare us in the face—the war goes on, and there is no end in sight in the near future.

Much of the blame has been levied at the military mentality represented in the Calley trial. However, it is beginning to become more and more evident that perhaps the military is one of the most humane institutions in our inhumane society. It is the monster of a Frankenstein society, a monster which can occasionally dispense justice, while its creator cannot, as has been demonstrated by the reactions to the Calley court martial.

Indeed, the sickness reflected in the military establishment is simply the result of the pervasive disease infecting the American people. When Calley was found guilty and responsible, this country was found guilty and responsible for the atrocities of war committed in Vietnam. And the reaction of the vast majority of Americans showed that this country is not yet willing to face that responsibility, that we’ve reached the point when the death of a man, even if he is our enemy, no longer affects us.

Such crass indifference is not excluded from Davidson life. The Davidson Peace Coalition, the community’s only active organization working through legitimate means for peace in Vietnam, has done much to promote concern, but less than a fourth of the college community (including administration, faculty and students) have responded. Most people will say that the war must be stopped, but few can overcome their apathy to work for its end. Yet the war goes on...

Economics 101-1

The strange economics of the administration-student relationship, which seems to have very little in common at times with Economics 101, have gone into operation again with the latest decision on financial aid. It seems to be a particularly poor choice of time to make the decision to cut the financial aid of the incoming freshman class when one realizes that their costs in attending Davidson will be at an all-time high next fall.

Davidson College likes to say that it deals in a unique product. This may be truer than ever in the future if the present costs are matched with the new financial aid decisions. The products may eventually evolve into the picture of the Davidson student that the admissions office has attempted to some extent to change, the upper middle class country clubber.

One of the proudest claims in the catalog has been that Davidson provides financial aid equal to the financial need of each student. Next year that passes by the board and all financial aid becomes competitive. High school work and performances are not a completely reliable guide to the performance of an individual at Davidson. Students who have been accepted off the waiting list have made very strong contributions to Davidson and the community. These are the people at the bottom of the list for financial aid.

Back to Economics 101. Davidson is marketing itself to students. Without the entering freshman class each year it would not take a long time for the institution to vanish, (the Continuing College Community might hold on a little longer). To remain competitive in the market for incoming students, Davidson has to overcome several handicaps which are rather well known to students. It doesn’t need the added burden of increased costs and lowered financial aid which may influence the less than affluent to search elsewhere for their diplomas. Hopefully the new fund raising apparatus has the needs of the financial aid department as well as the Ovens-Little Library in mind. The college will need the money for both.

Dick Anderson

Strong Violates Rights In ‘Groove Tube’ Ban

It’s a sad thing to have to write a column twice, especially when you have to take a somewhat inconsistent point of view the second time around. Several weeks ago in connection with the coming of Rennie Davis I wrote a column supporting the right of the SGA Senate to choose the speakers whom it desires on campus.

At that time I stated that the main issue was the right of the senators to make decisions on the basis of their personal evaluations, rather than the desires of parts of their constituencies. Now Lester Strong, Union Board President, has used the same Burkean argument to justify canceling the showings of “Groove Tube” on the basis that it did not fit in with his conception of what he should program in the union for students.

I agree with Strong's contention that election gives the leader the right to decide against the will of the electorate on certain issues. Yet I disagree that he in his position as College Union President ought to have canceled the “Groove Tube” when the sentiment of a large portion of the student body was clearly in favor of the showing.

That paragraph may seem to contain a basic inconsistency, but I think it may be resolved through consideration of the difference in nature between the roles of the senate and the union.presi-: Bobby Allen, president and board. Strong is not, in my opinion, elected to determine what entertainment the students will have available to them. The purpose of electing a College Union President is instead to have students involved in the running of the union so that it will be responsible to the student body as well as to the administration through the Director of the Union.

ANDERSON

The president and board members are to procure entertainment for students as their representatives, and as such to get what the students wish. In the absence of a clearly expressed desire for a particular show, the board must choose among the available ones. But when the students clearly want a particular show, then the board should attempt to bring it on campus. The reason for this is that Strong and the Union Board have control over all of the monies which are earmarked for entertainment in the union, which for many students is the sole entertainment opportunity on campus. It was suggested, at the time of the “Groove Tube” cancellation, that some other student organization might pay for the showing. However, no existing group represents all of the students the way the union does or has available funds and facilities for such a showing. The only exception is the senate, which, however, is not properly involved in the provision of entertainment for the student body.

Strong’s contention on that Tuesday that besides the students he also had to represent the administration and the trustees is nonsense. He was elected from and by the students alone, the money and facilities which he controls are for the purposes of the students, and his only constituency is the student body. Strong attempted to set himself up as the arbiter of what students should see when he cancelled the “Groove Tube” on the basis of his “programming concept” (whatever that is). That is not a proper part of his job. Strong’s denial to students of the opportunity to make their own judgment of the entertainment value of “Groove Tube” is a denial of that basic fact. And his limiting the nature of the students’ only collective entertainment outlet is a contravention of the purpose of his election.

Miss Blue Ridge Represents City, Orthodontist, Florist

We got lost trying to find Cave Spring High School and were late for the Miss Blue Ridge Valley Beauty Contest. The cop on duty at the door gave us a dirty look as we piled out of Chris’ van: Chris, who looked like a redneck whose barber had been dead several months, two Viking hookers and their mother, a Mother Chuckers cheerleader (the Mother Chuckers are the Hollins Frisbee team), the other and me. The usher showed us to our row with a dirty look just as the three-piece combo direct from the Black Garter Supper Club was getting heavy into “A Pretty Girl is Like a Melody.”

Then the Miss Somebody of 1970 came out and said how this was such a great experience for all the girls, and how at Atlantic City the girls did everything a girl could do in a week, and how you really got to know your state by attending bank openings and everything. She had a mouth like the grill off an Edsel.

Then Miss Edsel introduced the 11 lovely contestants, all vying for the chance to wear the crown of Miss Blue Ridge Valley and the chance to represent her city and orthodontist at the Miss Virginia Contest. One by one the 11 lovely contestants (who get to know and love each other during the hectic week prior to the contest) came out and did their respective talent thing. It was pure dynamite. There were four modern-jazz-ballet-toe-tap dancers in black sequined outfits which showed just enough to let the judges know they were sexy but virginal, five girls who sat on stools and sang the same arrangement of five pop songs, a girl who recited Patrick Henry’s speech in her brother’s tuxedo and looked like a penguin, and a fat girl who had a lot of guts and played the electric Wurlitzer like the lady who plays the national anthem at the Coliseum.

Then came intermission. We took our own vote for the winner. The vote was tied between a girl who looked like she was smuggling musk melons to Mexico and a male tap dancer from Miss Belinda’s.

When you're a finalist you get to show off your grace, poise, intelligence, and imagination by answering questions like “If your house was afire and you only had a chance to save one person, who would it be?” To which the correct reply is, “Not wanting to show favoritism, I would not try to save anyone but would administer Extreme Unction to my entire family.”

Then after that eternity while the judges are making their final decision, THE NEW MISS BLUE RIDGE VALLEY FOR 1971 IS... BETTY LOU BENSON. And, she accepts the bouquet of red roses and the kiss from the outgoing Miss Blue Ridge and the kiss of Miss First-Runner-Up who didn’t really want it anyway, and puts on a genuine imitation fox cape and walks down the runway while Lloyd Cooter sings and Betty Lou cries and you know that those years at Miss Belinda’s and those braces and doing without Hershey Bars for the last five years have all been worth it because this is it.