Like
By WINDY MARCH
and DON PARMAN

It began on the highways on the way up—we would occasionally pass cars full of people obviously going to Washington
to end the war. There would be much camaraderie and waving of clenched fists between cars; and then we would
settle back, and in true Davidson style, discuss how silly it was to wave clenched fists.

Washington, when we got there, was swarming with freaks. But Saturday afternoon, when people began to say that this was
the largest anti-war demonstration ever, and the atmosphere had become one of celebration and community, the "demo" had become something
more than a protest march.

It outgrew itself. It was just too big to be defined or controlled by any one minority, not even the
marshalls, who could not prevent the massed crowd at the Ellipse from starting the march in the wrong direction.

It was a protest/demonstration/happening/picnic/spring ritual/pot party/gathering of everyone. Like America itself, it was too big and too sprawled-out and too
all-inclusive to have a simple defining name, except "peaceful."

We watched a UAW local marching ahead of a Gay Liberation task force and behind a group of Palestinian guerrillas,
while we were trapped in the doldrums of a sea of humanity pressing in around the Johnny-on-the-Spot Portable Toilet on
top of which sat Yippies screaming at the police.

America Itself...

Far in the distance we caught momentary glimpses of soldiers emplaced on the roof of the sacrosanct, unassailable White House,
where Richard Nixon wasn't.

There were families with children, old women in wheelchairs, freaks without shirts soaking rays, students smoking dope on the Capitol
steps, wandering Woodstock nation types, professional resisters of anything, street people, Panthers, and liberators of every conceivable facet of American
sociology. There were so many that the ones who filled the trees and covered the statues all along the route
were the only ones who ever saw a large fraction of them.

Upon arriving at the Capitol, the spirit of the crowd changed a little, to a more rock concert kind of
thing.

Not everybody got to arrive at the Capitol, however. The entire lawn was covered by bodies before half of the
marchers had arrived at the front gate, leaving Pennsylvania still choked, halfway through the speeches.

Senator Hartke made a political speech, Ralph Abernathy an earnest appeal for rights for the poor. None of it mattered
to the crowd which had heard it all before, none of the marchers had come to be convinced that he
should have marched. The speeches were for the newspapers. It had to be done.

The music was for the people. The crowd reserved its biggest applause for Country Joe and the Fish, of Fish
Cheer fame (give me an F...), and Peter, Paul and Mary, who got back together for the rally. A little
more grass in the air, a little more like Woodstock.

It was here that we first heard that there were a half million people. There wasn't any place to see
them all, but the number boggled the mind.

At the Washington Monument that night for the rock concert, largely a musical failure, the crowd began its turn toward
individualism.

By now the smoke hung in a dense cloud whenever the spotlights peered into the air. The hillside was almost
impassable with bodies as people turned on to the drugs, to each other and to the music.

This wasn't the "people" of the march but small clusters or individuals, some getting ready to leave in the morning
and others getting ready to sleep in the park, getting ready for the two weeks in Washington, getting ready to
"get out now."

On Sunday morning we got in the car and went back to Davidson College in Davidson, North Carolina.

Page Seven

April 30, 1971
