The Vol. LX, No. Twenty-Five
Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
May 7, 1971

(Staff photo by Doty)

STACKS MEETS THE SENATE
A student poll on the laundry is forthcoming.

Senate Puts On Yearbook
By ALEC HOON
News Editor

The student Senate Monday night placed an expenditure ceiling of $8,000 for next year's yearbook, in a reversal of the
Senate Finance Committee's decision. The proposed budget of $10,500 approved by the Finance Committee was overturned as a result of
the yearbook poll which indicated that a majority of students favored a reduction in the amount of money to be
spent on future editions of the Quips and Cranks. The poll was interpreted in this way for the Senate by
Charlie Ralston, who was responsible for tabulating the results, Manager of the College Laundry.

Self-Selection To Begin Amid Off-Campus Plans

Davidson’s new social system moves into its next phase Tuesday evening with freshmen self-selecting eating clubs for next fall. According
to Dean of Students Will H. Terry, the selection process will be run from 10 p.m. until midnight on a
“first come, first served” basis, with each freshman given the opportunity to choose three clubs that he’d like to eat
with next fall. Terry said that the selection cards will be sent to each freshman in his room, with others
available in the student union and in the Office of the Dean of Students. Rising seniors Brian Tarr and Tom
Sinks drew up the plan, according to Terry.

Terry emphasized that if a freshman does not want to be in an eating club next year, he does not
have to sign up for one and will be free of any obligations to join one. “The Student Life Committee,
the participating fraternity presidents, and myself are aware that this procedure is not intended to set precedents,” Terry said. “This
is a unique year because it’s the first, and what we do this year is not necessarily what will be
done in the future. We are trying to give the freshmen the maximum chance to get their first choice concerning
eating and social life next year. We are also trying to give the eating clubs the maximum chance to integrate
the freshmen into the system.”

According to Terry, members will be allowed to change eating houses if they so desire at the end of each
term. “Possibly the incoming freshmen may be changing houses more often than that to give them a broader scope of
the clubs and the people in them,” Terry said.

Terry pointed out that three national fraternities, the Pi Kappa Alpha house, the Sigma Alpha Epsilon house, and the Alpha
Tau Omega house, all will keep their national charters. “The nationals of these houses have been good about the change
in social systems,” Terry said. Several other national fraternities, however, have indicated that they will not accept the college’s invitation
to remain on campus under the new social system.

The Phi Gamma Delta fraternity broke ground for its proposed lake-side house last Wednesday. The groundbreaking drew an “enthusiastic crowd,
including several faculty members,” according to Gamm president Robert Norris. Norris said that the Gamms “plan to go ahead with
all our proposals to set up facilities off campus. All we are asking is that the fraternity members be given
the same rights as any other student at Davidson College.” The Gamms have already hired an architect and a contractor
and plan to begin excavation “as soon as is possible.”

The Kappa Alpha chapter has already made preparations for renting a small house outside of the Davidson town zoning regulations.
According to house spokesmen, approximately 40 members, including pledges, will be associated with the off-campus group next year.

The Phi Delta Theta fraternity, according to house president Woody Montgomery, “has totally rejected the new social system as proposed
by the Committee of 18," and plans to set up operations off campus. Montgomery said that the house has made
definite plans for accommodations away from campus next year, but for several reasons does not want details made public.W. Stacks
reported to the senate on the future of laundry services at Davidson. “Next year we will continue the current policy
with certain reductions to save the $14,000 that was lost this year through a planned deficit.” Duke dorm senator Doug
Haynes was authorized to run a poll this week to sample student opinion on all phases of the laundry operation.

The proposal to reduce the yearbook funding, introduced by freshman senator Doug Brown and amended by sophomore senator Doug Sittler,
was made in the form of a statement instructing the Finance Committee to reconsider their vote. “The senate instructs the
Finance Committee to reconsider their decision on the yearbook appropriations and to set a ceiling of $8,000 for next year.”
The Finance Committee, appointed by the senate, must change their decision to agree with the SGA action according to senate
president Danny Clodfelter.

Stacks mentioned several ideas under consideration to save money including: (1) no more free ironing of pants which would save
$8,000, (2) no more paper wrappings which would save $1,000 (instead laundry would be put back in the laundry bags
in which it was sent), and (3) increased advertising, hopefully netting more money. The SGA will investigate the possibilities for
a coin-operated service, and draw up a proposal to be submitted to the administration. Looking at the chances for such
a change, Stacks commented, “I think that any referendum for a coin-operated service would be voted down. Ten or fifteen
students have complained to me within the past week about such a change. They emphasized that students do not want
to spend their time washing clothes.”

When queried about the possibilities for raising the fees for the laundry instead of reducing the service, he said, “The
catalogues have already been mailed out stating that the present laundry fee of $110 will be continued next year. Therefore,
we can't change next year's rates now."

In other action, a proposal extending weekend gym hours was passed unanimously. If approved by Dr. Scott, the gym would
remain open until 11 on Friday night, be opened from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and from 7 p.m. to
11 on Saturday night, and remain open until 11 p.m. on Sunday night.

Faculty To Push Forward On Open Faculty Meetings
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

The faculty Tuesday voted to direct the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) to draft an amendment to their constitution for open
faculty meetings. Of the three proposals presented by student Senate President Danny Clodfelter, the faculty selected the option of designating
at least 15 seats that will be open to any member of the student body. These students will have floor
privileges but no vote. Under this option, the faculty may close its meeting by a three-fourths vote of those present.
The FEC will now draft this proposal in the form of an amendment to the faculty constitution. From there it
must follow the amendment procedure: an announcement, an open forum, first reading and vote, second reading and vote. The final
reading requires a three-fourths affirmative vote of the faculty present.

After the faculty meeting Tuesday, the student government requested that the FEC not submit the amendment to the faculty until
next fall. “Since there are so many things happening now I am afraid this amendment would not be discussed properly,”
said Clodfelter. “I want to give this issue the attention it deserves. I have no idea of the chances of
passage; however, I am encouraged that the faculty intends to seriously face the issue,” he said. “It shows a willingness
on the part of the faculty that they request an amendment to be proposed. It is also significant that they
selected the option most favored by the student Senate.”

President of the rising Senior Class Bill Lear, who was invited into the faculty meeting with Clodfelter to (See FACULTY,
Page 2)

Inside
Davidson senior Jerry Dean may be a test case in a suit to test the legality of North Carolina voting
laws. See story on page six. Reviewers this week are David Wells at the movies and Bill Green at the
drama production.
