Page Two April 9, 1971 The Davidsonian

Foreign Education Programs Net 48
By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

Forty-eight Davidson students will be spending their junior year in four European countries, India, and Africa. The universities of Marburg, Germany, and Montpellier, France, will, as in the past, take the largest numbers—12 and 24, respectively. There will be five in Spain, five in Britain, one in Africa, and one in India.

“Being immersed in a foreign culture is one of the most enriching experiences a college student can have,” commented Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. “More than anything else, study of this nature contributes to individual development and world understanding.”

The Davidson program began in 1964-65, and it has steadily grown since its inception. In addition, Davidson now has the Classics Seminar Abroad for the spring term and a summer term at Oxford University in conjunction with Mary Baldwin.

Assistant Professor of German Paul C. Fisher is currently very involved in the Office of International Education. He hopes to see students receive more information and counseling so that they can have solid academic experiences abroad, and he hopes to make them aware of summer job programs abroad. “Some private enterprises are perhaps not as reputable or as solvent as they should be, and we attempt to advise students on the nature of their operations,” he said.

Freshmen will be able on April 20, in Perkins Auditorium at 4:30, to make preliminary application for the junior year abroad program. Fisher believes this new procedure “will help us to plan programs better and to give complete academic counseling.”

Fisher does not feel that students are aware of all the opportunities, and he knows that some are not aware of some of the prerequisite courses. “Foreign countries have limited laboratory facilities and it is only fair that their students be given first priority in addition to students from developing nations,” he commented. Davidson students in the junior year abroad program while overseas will mainly take courses in the humanities, the social sciences, fine arts, and religion.

According to Fisher, Davidson is committed to inter-cultural education. The South Asian program is in its early stages, and it is hoped that a program can be worked out with an Indian college or university. The Davidson program is one in which Davidson students attend a foreign university on the same basis as the students of the host country. “This program demands a student who can work independently and has the initiative to perform well in an academic situation,” commented Fisher. A “B” average is usually required, although in some cases exceptions are made.

According to Fisher, the college attempts to charge the absolute minimum, and he believes the tremendous program is a financial bargain. The total costs for a 10-11 month stay abroad is approximately the same as the cost for attending Davidson for eight and a half months. “Students become very conscious of the value of a dollar, as they are responsible for their own finances while abroad,” said Fisher. “This program is not only open for the affluent because scholarship students also participate in the program,” added Fisher.

Students spend 11 months in Germany and nine to 10 in France, and prior to the academic year they receive an intensive language and cultural education.

Asst. Managing Editor

Explaining that “it’s the kind of subject that doesn’t allow for neat answers,” College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. talked Monday night

Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Contributors this week:
Boyd, Dave Tierney, Windy March, Eric Vernon,

Copy Editors:
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Ass't Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS
DARYL WILLIAMS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
ROGER MANLEY
Cathy Ross, and Steve Suflas.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.about coeducation for Davidson. The Open End, which drew about 30 students and faculty, failed to reveal any definite date on which female students can be expected on the Davidson campus en masse. Spencer said he did not want to give a specific date because he didn’t want to “cop out” on any promises or assurances. He did say, however, that he was in favor of coeducation. The president said that most members of the heavily-male Davidson community had looked at the matter mostly from a “male chauvinist” standpoint. He said the college must now consider whether coeducation would be beneficial for the women attending as well as just for the present male community.

The biggest obstacle blocking the college from abandoning its traditional all-male enrollment is financial problems associated with the move, according to Spencer. Davidson College is almost unique among small colleges in that it is not in debt at this time, and unless monetary support can be guaranteed from alumni and friends, the college cannot embark on a costly program such as coeducation. When questioned as to the position of coeducation on the list of priorities, Spencer placed the library at the top but said that coeducation was among the top priorities. He said further that it would drop in position if surveys showed that the alumni would not contribute the necessary support.

Spencer said he anticipated no increase in the tuition charged to present students in order to build a fund for coeducation in the future. He further said that the placement of the new library has no relationship to present plans for future expansion (coeducation); rather it was placed on the site of the present College Union to give a unity to the academic center. Spencer said that no action on coeducation could be expected until the college gets the money for the new library.

Spencer listed four avenues to coeducation of the college. First, the number of students could be increased by adding juniors on an exchange program and faculty wives. This can be done, according to the president. In this connection, he plans to propose to the trustees in May that the college give diplomas to some females, such as faculty wives and married students. The second avenue is to take upper division (junior and senior) girls only at first. In this way, the college would be able to choose students who will major in areas where the college has a better staff situation than others. The third avenue is to accept women as regular students. This is the most costly plan and the one most students think of when they hear of “coeducation.” Fourthly, the college could establish a coordinate program with a girls' school, probably Queens. Under this system, some courses and majors would be offered only at one or the other of the campuses, with many courses and degrees duplicated. Each school would then be able to best use its particular resources.

RHC To Fine Students For Use Of Fireworks
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

Anyone found possessing or using fireworks on campus will be fined between 10 dollars and 25 dollars, according to Bill Alexander, President of the Residence Hall Council (RHC). Alexander said the RHC has empowered the house committees, composed of dorm representatives of the RHC, to levy fines against those who admit to possession or use of firecrackers. Any cases involving judgment will be sent to the regulations court for a decision.

“So many people are really upset over the use of firecrackers on campus,” said Alexander. “Not only are fireworks a nuisance, but they also are a fire hazard and can cause personal injury.” Alexander noted that one student has already been fined 25 dollars for throwing a firecracker at a janitor. “Luckily he wasn’t hurt,” said Alexander. “But the fact remains that the janitor could have been seriously injured.”

Dean of Students Will H. Terry said he was satisfied that the firecracker problem is on its way to a solution by the action of the RHC. “This is another illustration that when students get involved and concerned about an issue they will handle it by themselves.”