Vol. 2, No. Two Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students JULY-AUGUST, 1971

College Remains Financially Sound Through June 30

By RICH WILSON

Scoring his first triumph since he became Vice President for Finance and Development, C. David Cornell has announced that Davidson College remained financially in the black during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971. Although the final figures have not been tabulated, the auditors, who presently are scrutinizing budget figures, have stated that they believe the college will not suffer a deficit.

“Just how much we will have left over will be determined in September when the auditors submit their final report, but it won't be much," said Cornell. “Back in May the financial situation looked pretty bleak," he said. “The way expenses were going we thought sure we would end up in the red.”

At that time a memo which was sent to all departments, in effect froze all funds from being spent unless administrative approval was given. “This was done so that a department wouldn't foolishly spend any money they might have left over from the year’s expenses,” Cornell said. “Although freezing funds was not a popular decision with the faculty, I do believe it was the primary factor which put us over into the black,” he said.

Cornell also mentioned that the faculty and administration were asked “not to make long distance phone calls or trips unless it was absolutely necessary.”

Another factor which added to the college's financial situation was that the Annual Fund Drive netted $180,000. The Annual Fund consists of unrestricted money donated to the college by alumni, parents, and friends of the college. Since these funds are not earmarked for any special project, they are often used to balance the budget.

Cornell said that the leadership conference held March 27 gave the biggest boost to the Annual Fund. “We invited the key men in the alumni to visit the college so that they could ask questions concerning many of the practices and policies here,” he said. “We also intensified the telephone campaign. For instance, from the class of '58, about 23 fellows sat down one Sunday afternoon and tried to call most of the class members,” he continued. “One guy they called had never given to the college before, and had only attended (See College Page 3)

BLACK IS BEAUTIFUL
Photo by Warnken

C. David Cornell breathes a sigh of relief as college remains financially in the black.

Workshops May Replace Sagging Summer School

The summer school which ended last week may be the last regular summer session held at Davidson. College officials are beginning to openly discuss the possibility of abolishing the regular summer school in favor of workshops and institutes which would attract more enrollees and thus more effectively use college facilities.

Previously it has been academic policy that any student who fails a course during the regular academic year must make up the deficiency at the Davidson summer school. But when the new academic regulations were passed in June, the faculty abolished this restriction. Now, any student who fails a course or for any reason doesn't complete a course may attend an accredited

New Administrative Faces

New faces will appear in the administration this September as the positions of assistant toThe president, manager of the dining service, director of deferred giving, coordinator of student activities, and director of career service are filled. Greg Scott, who graduated in June and received the Algernon Sydney award, will succeed Peter Hobbie as Assistant to the President. Scott, a former president of the YMCA, hall counselor, and honors college veteran, will represent the president's office in various college activities, and organize programs for special events including convocations and trustee meetings.

"In addition to being an outstanding person, Greg has had good organizational experience and will help make the president's office more efficient and effective," said College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. "Since Greg is the general age level of the student body, I hope we will develop strong relationships with the students and student organizations," Spencer said.

In other changes, an end of an era has come in Davidson’s food service as Klaus Kleeburg departs to work for ARA Slater's dining service at the University of South Carolina. "Klaus has been here a long time and has had to contend with high food costs and better quality demands from the students," said Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell. "I have great respect for Mr. Kleeburg," he continued. "It is extremely difficult to run a food service when you have such a small volume of meals to prepare as is the case here." Kleeburg will be replaced by Ronald Scott who worked previously as the dining service manager of The Citadel for ARA Slater.

Ronald Nordeen, currently director of estate planning at Pomona College, has been named director of deferred giving at Davidson, according to Cornell. Nordeen, 38, has been on the Pomona College development staff since 1965 and has been in his present position since 1968. During the past five years, Pomona has written over $10 million in deferred gifts.

The college has found that students would rather take summer courses at home, since by doing so they would cut down room and board expenses. Many students have found that they can take a summer course at a nearby university for approximately $40 or $50, whereas a summer course at Davidson costs $200. "I think it's basically finances," said Richard C. Burts Jr., registrar. "Since students are no longer required to make up a credited course here, it certainly is financially cheaper to make it up at a university near the student's home."

While the financial consideration is important, Burts also mentioned that many students realize courses at Davidson are oftentimes more difficult than those at a university. "Consequently, most students aren't going to walk into the buzz saw to make up a deficiency," Burts said.

During the first term of summer school this year, 10 courses were offered, but only seven materialized. And of the eight courses offered second term, only four were actually taught. Approximately 65 students attended the first session and 36, the second, according to Burts. Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell said that summer school is not necessarily a financial liability, but he felt that the college facilities could be used in a more effective manner.