Page Six May 7, 1971

TEST CASE? (Staff photo by Doty) Jerry Dean challenges voter regulations.

Dean Tests State Law
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Asst. Managing Editor

Davidson senior Jerry Dean is involved in a groundbreaking court case which may ultimately give students in North Carolina the
right to vote in their college community.

William B. A. Culp, Jr., the Executive Secretary of the Mecklenburg County Board of Elections, has informed Dean that his
request to register to vote in the county has been denied. Dean, who states simply, “I live in North Carolina,”
considers this state his legal residence because he is a legal adult (21 years of age) and has lived in
the state for four years, well over the required one-year residency requirement.

Blackstock Outlines Use Of Nonmilitary Warfare
By DAVID HANIG
Copy Editor

The United States did not give serious attention to the problem of political warfare until 1960, Paul W. Blackstock, ROTC
enrichment speaker, said Tuesday in the Morrison Room. Speaking on the topic “Political Warfare and Propaganda,” Blackstock said that President
Kennedy was the first President to publicly acknowledge the threat of subversion. Blackstock defined political warfare as “the aggressive use
of nonmilitary means of interference in the affairs of another country.

“On the strategic scale, there are three goals of political warfare — to support the foreign policies of a country,
to gain support for a country's ideology, and to give a favorable impression of a country,” he said.

According to Blackstock, political warfare is fought in three stages — infiltration or penetration, forced disintegration of society by playing
one sub-group against another, and subversion or conversion. “In every society, there are always out-groups who have grievances against in-groups
which can be exacerbated by an aggressor.

“The goal of political warfare is to detach the loyalties of a group and transfer these loyalties to the aggressor,”
he declared. Blackstock used 1940 France as an example of successful political warfare. “Many Frenchmen said that they would rather
see Hitler march down the Champs-Elysee than ‘Radical-Socialist Jew Leon Blum.’ At the sight of a German motorcycle, whole companies
of French soldiers would decide to go home," he declared.

According to Blackstock, the essential difference between the Communists and the non-communists is that the communists have had for the
past fifty years a network of communist parties throughout the world.

Financial Forms Delayed
By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

As a result of changes in the format, application forms for those on financial aid have not been released to
the student body. According to Assistant Director of Financial Aid Peter V. Sterling, “We have attempted to simplify the forms.”

In Sterling’s view, the new form will allow the Financial Aid Office to acquire information in a more reasonable fashion.
No definite date has been set for the release of the new forms, but it will be in the near
future. “I feel that it is to the student's advantage to fill out the financial information form at a date
later than that of previous years,” said Sterling. He cited that students must supply information about their grade point averages,
and it would be easier for them to know towards the end of the term. “It will take a person
no longer than about 20 minutes to complete these forms,” commented Sterling.

A number of students have stopped by the Financial Aid Office to inquire about the lateness of the forms, and
Sterling has attempted to explain to them the new procedure. “We have been very busy in working on the admission
of the Class of 1975. Personal contacts, phone calls, and talking to students have taken a great deal of our
time in the last few weeks,” said Sterling. A great many students visited Davidson in April, and this has hindered
our progress.the preparation of the financial aid forms.

FANTASTIC SUMMER IN EUROPE AND MOSTLY NORTH AFRICA
7 girls, 7 guys, rugged living, film crew, $990
Write: UNEFEX Director, 102 Stacy, Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

Dean intends to make his home in Charlotte when he graduates this year, for he plans to marry a Charlotte
girl. Were Dean not a student, he would probably have no difficulty in registering, but State law prevents students who
attend trade schools, colleges, or universities from voting in the county in which their school is located if that county
is not their parent's home. That same state law requires students to vote in the county in which their parents
reside. Dean is the son of a Church of God minister, and thus has not lived in any one place
more than four years. His parents now live in Milford, Del., which Dean has visited for one week. Such a
situation is considered an ideal one for a court test by Davidson Assistant Professor of Political Science William E. Jackson,
Jr., who is interested in the case and who has worked with Dean in its development. Jackson hopes to interest
groups such as the American Civil Liberties Union and John Gardner's Common Cause in Dean's case.

Dean has one alternative to voting in Delaware — signing an affidavit that he plans to live in Mecklenburg County
at the completion of his college career. Others who move into an area for a definite period — such as
junior executives who are frequently moved about — are not required to sign such an oath, even though they have
definite plans to move shortly. Dean considers such a “double standard” discriminatory against students and plans to fight the law
in court. He stresses that his case would apply only to those over 21, since his case is based on
the fact that he is a legal adult and thus able to determine his own future. Jackson and Dean are
in the process of finding a lawyer now for the court case. Dean went before the County Board of Elections
Wednesday to sign the affidavit. Signing it would give him the right to vote, but would not resolve the issue,
setting the stage for the court decision. Dean did not sign.

Much of the problem revolves around communities in which a large proportion of the population is students. In cities such
as Boone, N.C., over 6,000 of 8,000 residents are college students, and a united student front could pass bond issues
which could deeply indebt the community for years past the time the students are in college. The Census Bureau counts
students in with the population of a community, and these census figures are used when grants are given to the
town and when representation is determined on the local, state, and national levels.

In an editorial Sunday, The Charlotte Observer wrote, "There appears no easy answer to the dilemma being posed by the
case of Jerry Dean. Enough intricacies are involved in finding an acceptable solution to put this one on the burner
for many months to come."

In early June, Dean will graduate from Davidson and cease to be a student. By refusing to take the oath
on Wednesday, Dean forfeited his right to vote in Mecklenburg County under the existing statutes. County election officials explained that
they were bound by the letter of the law, leaving the matter to the courts.

SOMETHING TO WRITE HOME ABOUT:
“Dear Dad, I can buy Vega Sedan (Motor Trend's Car of the Year) for as little as $2153.00 at Safety
Chevrolet, just up the road from Davidson.”

VEGA by Chevrolet
Safety Chevrolet Co.
Your Authorized Davidson - Cornelius Chevrolet Dealer
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Dealer License No. 1407
186 N. Broad St.
Phone 892-1106
