«Che Vol. LXI No. Twelve Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students DECEMBER 17, 1971

(Staff photo by Barnes)

CONCERNED COUNSELOR Spokesman Ralph Peeples enunciates Freshman Crisis.

Counselors Petition For Coeducation Discontent, Disillusionment Decimating Freshman Class

By RICH WILSON Managing Editor

Reacting to a rash of withdrawals as well as widespread discontent among the Freshman Class, Hall Counselors this week petitioned
College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. to adopt a plan of implementation for coeducation as soon as possible. In a
meeting Monday, the Hall Counselors expressed the belief that coeducation is an underlying cause for much of the feeling of
frustration and disillusionment that exists in the Freshman Class, according to Ralph Peeples, spokesman for the group. The petition, signed
by all the counselors, said that the discontent is manifested in four ways:

1. “A significant number of freshmen have already transferred.

Senate By-Laws Rewritten In Marathon SGA Meeting

AN ANALYSIS By TOM BRUCE Staff Writer

The SGA Senate’s recent action in rewriting its by-laws occurred one week before the Fine Film presentation of Marat/Sade. In
the movie, set in an insane asylum, wild inmates screamed and writhed, chanting repeatedly, “We want the Revolution now!” Viewers
of the film identified with the director’s efforts, but they still felt a sense of vertigo and a keen sense
of exhaustion.

The Senate meeting lasted almost six hours, spanning the period from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. During the progress of
the meeting, senators drifted in and out of the Union’s Blue Room as attendance fluctuated precariously just above a quorum.
At one point, a senator proposed that the title class president be changed to Class Hobnob. Another senator alternated from
the Senate meeting to an Advanced First Aid Class meeting in the nearby Green Room, where pupils were self-consciously resurrecting
a blonde dummy.

In a very real sense, the unspoken parallel between the Senate meeting and Marat/Sade was coming to mind for a
number of senators. One felt a sense of vertigo and, by the meeting's end, virtually everyone was exhausted.

One of the first moves of the evening was a motion made by written amendment to strike the words “so
help me God” from the oath of office that SGA officials take routinely after election. The argument was offered that
this oath imposed an artificial piety on students, one that might not have any application in reality. Senior Danny Berry
countered that the oath was already optional and that the amendment served no purpose. Berry stated, “This change disturbs me
greatly. I would say ‘so help me God’ after taking the oath if I were up for re-election in January.”

A recurrent complaint among Senators who attended the meeting was that, despite the great length of the meeting, there was
not adequate time to focus on some critical matters that demanded Senate attention. The senators were ever aware of the
seventy amendments that had been proposed to the Senate By-laws, notwithstanding the skillful pruning already undertaken by a Senate committee.

As the meeting wore on, there was an understandable reluctance to raise objections on the part of some dissatisfied senators.
When the final vote on the By-laws was compiled and the necessary two-thirds approval was lacking, the Senate pressured the
dissident members into conformity arguing that the six-hour meeting would have been in vain if the new by-laws were not
passed.

Another pressing need for the Senate was to assign a new rule on the percentage of Davidson students who would
have to vote “no” to overturn Senate action in referenda. Currently, two-thirds of the total student body must disagree with
the Senate to overturn legislative actions. Since only about 65% of the students vote in referenda, according to Senior Class
President Bill Lear, there must be better than unanimous dissatisfaction with some action among voting students. This policy could not
be changed because it was outside of the dominion of the by-laws. “The Senate should have focused its attention on
the SGA Constitution rather than the by-laws since it was the real source of the problem in the referendum issue,”
Doug Brown said. “While I don’t mind devoting time to the Senate, I think a reconsideration of the Constitu-tion would
have been more central to the needs of the student body.” Senators Bill Ralston and Robert Corlew headed a committee
that was responsible for the mammoth reconstruction of the by-laws, a job that demanded a good sense of organization and
an eye for detail. Their committee did a careful job and it is doubtful that any group (See SENATE, Page
3) transferred to other colleges, while several others have left with no future plans than to stay away from Davidson.

2. “The remaining freshmen have observed those that have left, and they now realize that they themselves can transfer just
as easily.” Several freshmen on each hall already have had interviews at other colleges and some plan to depart in
January or at the end of the current academic year.

3. “Despite recent renovations in the dormitories, freshmen feel such enmity and hostility toward the college and its failure to
respond to their needs, that they indiscriminately destroy college property.

4. “Freshmen have repeatedly told us that if they could decide again where to go to college, they never would
have come to Davidson.” The counselors said that their function has been to serve both the college and the freshmen,
and to interpret the needs of each to the other. “However, it has become increasingly difficult for us to defend
the college’s refusal to implement a plan for coeducation,” the hall counselors said. “In counseling the freshmen, we have found
that in almost every case involving transfer, coeducation is always an underlying factor in their decision.” They felt that most
freshmen were accustomed to fraternizing with females in high school; consequently, the Davidson environment makes adjustment to college even more
difficult than it ordinarily might be for a late freshman.

“The situation has become so acute that we can no longer put off the crisis that exists any longer,” Peeples
said. “Many workable plans for coeducation have been submitted that would not be a financial burden on the college. All
that needs to be done is for the President to take the simple action of selecting and implementing one plan.”
Peeples said that an immediate decision on coeducation would go a long way toward relieving the bitterness and frustration which
is presently expressed by the Freshman Class but which is found among the upperclasses as well. Steve Suflas, hall counselor
in Cannon Dorm, has lost three freshmen in the last week, and expects more to leave as the year proceeds.
“The major complaint of the guys that have left was that there is a total lack of opportunity to establish
meaningful relations with females,” Suflas said. “Understandably, freshman morale is dangerously low on my hall.” Suflas said that it has
become a common occurrence on Saturday nights for his freshmen to get together and discuss why they don't like Davidson.
Dean of Students Will H. Terry said he believed the petition accurately expressed the attitude of much of the freshman
class. “I think it is significant that this group of men who have the most intimate contact with freshmen should
be alarmed to (See COUNSELORS, Page 3)

News Clodfelter, Wilkinson Compete For Rhodes

Danny Clodfelter and Lawrence Wilkinson were selected Wednesday as nominees for 1971 Rhodes Scholarships. They will compete against 10 other
nominees from five other Southeastern states this weekend in Atlanta for four Rhodes Scholarships to Oxford University, England.

Spencer Outlines Plans For Union

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said this week that in the “long-range future” a Union Building will be built
on campus. In a statement released to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Spencer said he has directed the Buildings and Grounds Committees of
both the faculty and trustees to begin investigations for a proper site. To compensate for the lack of a Union
during the interval when the present Union is razed and when the new one is completed, Spencer has directed the
Union Board to report on temporary locations for Union functions. He said the college community will have the opportunity to
discuss such proposals before a final decision is reached. (See text of Statement page 8).

Nelson Wins Award

Economics Professor Louise Nelson has been honored as the Outstanding Faculty Advisor by Omicron Epsilon, an economics fraternity. Miss Nelson
was the only faculty advisor out of 240 chapters to be honored this year.
