Vol. LX, No. Twenty-Six  
The Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036  
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students  
May 14, 1971  

(Staff photo by Doty)  
POWER POLITICS  
Trustees Belk (left) and Myers consult with ue  

Trustees Stand Firm Against Fraternities  
By RICH WILSON  
Managing Editor  

The Davidson College Board of Trustees today reaffirmed its previous position that "no organization, fraternal or otherwise, be allowed to operate eating or living facilities off campus." Trustee Chairman Warner L. Hall said that he hoped the students would view the new social system as an opportunity to "pioneer in new and helpful patterns of social relationships." The Trustees also unanimously approved the recommendation that the new  

Faculty Passes Proposal For Proficiency Tests  
By RICH WILSON  
Managing Editor  

In a special meeting Tuesday, the faculty approved the new physical education program which requires every student to pass proficiency tests in five different sports. Under the new program, each student must pass proficiency tests in one team sport and four individual sports before the beginning of his junior year. If by that time the student has not met the proficiency requirements, he will be required to participate regularly with mandatory attendance in a program of physical education designed individually by the physical education staff. During the freshman and sophomore years, regular classes or tutorials will be  

102 Self-Select Houses In New Social System  
By GRAY WILSON  
Managing Editor  

This week, 102 freshmen self-selected into the new social system and will be eating regularly on Patterson Court next fall. The breakdown is as follows: The Alpha Tau Omega house received 13 bids and still has a vacancy for 12 extra members. The Beta Theta Pi house increased its ranks by 10 but still lacks 25 more members for its quota, the second largest deficit on the court next fall. The Pi Kappa Alpha house received only three bids, and this group can still take on 22 extra members. The Phi Kappa Phi House gained six new members for next fall, but this figure is in addition to the 58 other freshmen who selected the house, in a special agreement with the Office of the Dean of Students a few weeks ago. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon house gained 20 members, leaving five extra places in the house. This number is fallacious, however, because many of those who self-selected have been pledges since rush week. The Kappa Sigma house received 14 bids, leaving 11 vacancies before the quota is reached. The Sigma Nu house received seven bids, leaving a deficit of 38 members, the largest vacancy on the court for next fall. The Sigma Phi Epsilon house received 28 bids, the largest number for one house in the selection program, and only seven members are needed to reach the limit. The Phi Gamma Delta house did not receive any bids for next year, leaving 50 places open at the house because the group is moving off campus in the fall with 16 pledges of its own. Of the other houses moving off campus next fall, Phi Delta Theta is taking 20 (See SELF, Page 2)  

conducted in most activities, but attendance will be voluntary. One grade (S) will be submitted to the Registrar by the physical education department after the student has completed the program he defined for himself. Participation in intercollegiate sports may count as one activity toward fulfilling the requirement. Service classes in Senior Life Saving, Water Safety Instruction, and Red Cross First Aid will be available for students who need certification for summer employment as camp counselors and waterfront directors. Those students who have partially completed the present physical education requirements will have their requirements adjusted on an individual basis, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. "Davidson students will now have an opportunity to define their own programs of physical education and recreation within the limits of our staff and facilities," said Bevan. "Even though a number of our students will be able to meet our proficiency requirements as entering freshmen, we will offer instruction to all who want it."he said. Individual sports include gymnastics, intermediate swimming, Senior Life Saving, Water Safety Instruction, Red Cross First Aid, weight training, canoeing, scuba diving, sailing, water skiing, fencing, tennis, handball, golf, bowling, and snow skiing. Hall noted that the new $3.8 million structure will contain 100,000 square feet of floor space (approximately the size of Chambers). The board also approved the recommendation that student wives and the wives and daughters of the faculty and staff be admitted as degree candidates to Davidson College. “This is not a long step to coeducation,” said Hall, “but it is some movement in that direction.”

In further action, the board approved the proposal that the children of all college employees be allowed to attend Davidson tuition-free. “Previously this only applied to the children of the faculty and staff, but now we are extending this opportunity to all college employees whose children can meet the entrance requirements,” said Hall. The board also acted to inaugurate a plan which will provide adequate coverage of insurance for all employees of the college.

The largest budget in Davidson history of $5.7 million for the fiscal year 1971-72 was also approved. Hall noted that this is a balanced budget and that the college hopes to operate in the black this year. The Board of Trustees promoted Instructor in Asian Studies Frederick H. Gaige to the rank of assistant professor. Tenure was granted by the board to Assistant Professor of Classics Dirk French, Associate Professor of Bible and Religion R. David Kaylor, and Associate Professor of Mathematics L. Richardson King. The trustees also welcomed five new members: John G. Ormsby, Donald O. McInnis, Frank Matthews, and Charles Carter.

In response to the question as to how the college plans to enforce their position that no organizations can eat off campus, Hall said, “The College has the responsibility to serve the welfare and interests of all its students. I hope the fraternities will not knowingly and flagrantly violate the provisions of the college, and I don’t think they will.” Hall noted that the Board of Trustees plans to hold a special meeting June 22 to discuss the revised plan of campus governance. Revision of the Trustee Bylaws was tabled until their next regular meeting.

The trustees also approved the appointment of seven new faculty members: Donald L. Kimmel Jr., currently a research fellow at the California Institute of Technology, will succeed Olin Puckett as chairman of the biology department. Bertram Jessup, who holds a Ph.D. from the University of California, will teach in the English department and participate in the Honors College. Everett F. Jacobus Jr. recently obtained a Ph.D. from Cornell and will be hired as an instructor in French. Hugh S. Plunkett will arrive as an assistant professor of Anthropology in the South Asia studies area. Plunkett is presently an acting assistant professor at the University of Virginia. Jean S. Cornell, wife of Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell, will teach as an instructor in speech. Benjamin G. Klein, who received his M.A. and Ph.D. from Yale University, has been hired as an assistant professor of mathematics. Mark T. Davies, a Woodrow Wilson Fellow who received his degree from Princeton University, will teach as an assistant professor of classics.

Terry said that the administration “also has to consider the living conditions of the students. It seems to me to be unwise to pack students into the dorms except under the most favorable conditions.” Room Drawing There has still been no definite date set for the college dormitory room drawing, according to Dean of Students Will H. Terry. Terry said that the uncertainty concerning the number of freshmen attending next year is the primary reason for the delay, which has now been extended for more than a month. The college administration has emphasized that it is essential that all available beds be filled for next fall because of the financial situation.