Page Eight May 14, 1971

Ceol

Saturday, May 15
All Day "Town Day"
1:30 p.m. Movie: "2001, A Space Odyssey"
11:15 p.m. Hungry

Sunday, May 16
2 p.m. Soccer Film: "European Cup"
7 p.m. Opening of the Student Art Exhibit
8:15 p.m. Student Piano Recital
10 p.m. Christian Fellowship Meeting

Monday, May 17
3:15 p.m. Soccer Film: "European Cup"
8 p.m. Civilization Film
10 p.m. Open End: "College Finances"

Tuesday, May 18
3:15 p.m. Soccer Film: "European Cup"
8:15 p.m. Meeting: Speaker: Ross Smythe: "The Dumb Waiter"

Thursday, May 20
12 p.m. Lunch Films
7:30 p.m. Workshop VI
8 p.m. Soccer Film: "European Cup"

Friday, May 21
8:03 p.m. Movie: "Kelly’s Heroes"

Locations:
Morrison Room
Park Auditorium
Stowe Gallery
Perkins Auditorium
Love Auditorium
Hodson Hall
Union Bar
Green Room
Union Desk

Up 'n' Coming

Kelton, MacCormac Clash In Behaviorism Symposium
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Asst. Managing Editor

Davidson professors Dr. John D. Kelton and Dr. Earl MacCormac met head-on Wednesday night in the first session of the
Psychology Club's symposium on "Behaviorism and Man." Dr. Maynard Rich of Catawba College began the session by presenting the history
of behaviorism and its philosophical bases in the works of Plato, Aristotle, and Pavlov, among many others. Senior Hugh Marr
then presented Kelton, and the verbal battle began with the psychology professor's presentation of the pro-behaviorist viewpoint. Kelton explained that
there were many variations among the behaviorists, but that J. B. Watson and B. F. Skinner drew the battle lines
most distinctly, so he used their definitions and arguments. Watson, in his 1930 book on the topic, defined "behaviorism" as
"an attempt to ap-

Coeds, Married Students Receive RHC Backing
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

Duke Dormitory may be filled with nothing but girls by September 1972 if a proposal by the Residence Hall Council
(RHC) receives administrative approval. "We could have 100 girls on campus within a year, and it would be a great
boost for coeducation in the short run," said RHC President Bill Alexander. He added that the dorm has a capacity
of 78 beds. In a meeting Thursday night, the RHC considered a number of other proposals. One was the Married
Student Housing Report, prepared by representative Reginald Barton. Alexander said, "The proposal will go to the student Senate for approval,
recommending that the college provide alternatives to the 'cardboard village'." Married student housing presently consists of four white houses close
to the tracks on Griffith Road. Alexander added, "We think that the college has an obligation to married students just
as it does to other students. They have been isolated and overlooked, and the college should try to make them
feel a part of this campus."

A proposal on student refrigerators in the dorms received final approval from the administration and will go into effect next
fall. A suggested size of up to six cubic feet will be used as a standard, and any refrigerator over
these specifications must be checked for wiring. Each refrigerator will be the responsibility of one student, who must register it,
clean it before each break, and move it out during the summer months.

Another proposal before the RHC is to set up allowances for each dorm next year, which will be used by
a committee in the dorm for parties. "It will of course be limited to the finances in our budget next
year," said Alexander, "but we’re thinking about it anyway."

Responding to questions about the leaflet circulated in the dorms by the Ad Hoc Committee for an Alternative, Alexander said
that he had no part in the thing. "The RHChad nothing to do with that thing about quiet dorms. Scotty
Nicholls was the ad hoc committee herself.” The leaflet asked students if they would prefer to live in a dormitory
with regulated study hours, a limited open dorm policy, or one with students majoring in a foreign language. “For the
most part I think it is ridiculous,” Alexander said. “It’s like having a prep school instead of a college. It
assumes that students are not responsible.” The leaflets received only nominal response, however, and Alexander said that many of those
who answered it decorated the paper with obscenities.

apply to the experimental study of man the same kind of procedures and experiments used in the study of the
behavior of lower animals.” Watson tried to make behaviorism a natural science, placing it close to physiology. Skinner, on the
other hand, puts behaviorism in a category closer to biology in his more recent book, “Walden Two.” He contends that
psychology is the science of behavior rather than the study of mental life. Kelton then listed essential characteristics of behaviorism
as an insistence on objectivity; a conviction that behavior is lawful; and an acceptance of physical monism, with a rejection
of any dualism of mind and matter. Other characteristics of behaviorism are a rejection of “mentalistic explanatory fiction”; a search
for variables outside imaginary events; and a willingness to analyze behavior as the total of simpler components.

To prepare the audience of about 30 for the opposing viewpoints of MacCormac, Kelton presented some of the objections which
have been raised against behaviorism in recent years, calling them “either good defenses or good targets.” MacCormac, a philosophy associate
professor with an interest in language acquisition, then presented the “antibehavioristic” viewpoint, placing his major emphasis on an attack of
Skinner’s S/R (stimulus-response) association. He used a blackboard and mathematical equations to disprove the possibility of S/R association. According to
him, the basic difference between his and Kelton’s opinions was in their answer to the question, “Do all variables have
to be observed or not?”

Following a break for coffee and doughnuts, a panel consisting of Rich and Davidson students Bill Watson and Robert Folger
discussed the varying viewpoints. Rich then presented a synthesis of the opinions expressed, and fielded questions from the audience. The
second half of the symposium was held Thursday night.

Galbraith (continued from Page 3) stated, “Without exception every reason for Vietnam intervention has now been dissolved.” He said that
the U.S. has no vital interests there, now knows that the war is not part of a communist probe, and
recognizes that democracy is not being preserved. Galbraith concluded his talk with a few suggested remedies. “We have stumbled into
the third world. We must contract our policy in Latin America, Africa, and Asia, and quit making distinctions between governments
which are good and bad.” He said that he supports the continuation of a foreign aid program, but one which
is more in the line of what the Peace Corps is doing today. He added that the U.S. must recognize
trade with all governments. “It will take time to liquidate the disaster in Vietnam. Our influence, however, lies in the
absence of levers of power.”

STUDY SOUNDS IMPROVE GRADES
Improve Grades While Devoting The Same Amount Of Time To Study — Use Study Sounds. Increase Your Concentration And Improve
Your Comprehension. Study At A Faster Rate. Electronically Produced sounds cause this To Happen. Please Specify 8 Track Tape, Cassette,
Or LP Record. Send Check or Money Order—$9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage, Sound Concepts, Inc.,—Box 3852, Charlottesville, Va.
22902.

OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY
The Hu
Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Speers — Lasagna — Salads — CHOICE STEAK
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

CONGRATULATIONS
To The Cast Of CHARLEY’S AUNT For An Outstanding Production - May 5, 6, 7, 8
From The Folks At SAFETY CHEVROLET CO.
Mooresville
