PAUL ROWLAND. Re: The absence of educational innovation elsewhere is tragic; but at Davidson, it’s abominable. For almost four years
now, I have seen horrid portions of student and faculty time and effort go to waste; education has been more
often accomplished despite, rather than because of, our practices. I have seen the sloppy transition from the old curriculum to
the Blue Sky without fulfillment of the promises of the Blue Sky. Too many professors changed only the numbers of
their courses, disregarding the challenges of the Blue Sky. Too many students accepted the abolition of Saturday classes and institution
of a quarter system without demanding more. I have seen the coming and going of Area Exams—a basically good idea
perverted in its application by stagnant minds and abolished by student pressure and faculty discontentment. I have seen the nominal
institution of Independent Study. For most faculty and students alike, it has meant only regular courses without regular classes. President
Spencer promised application of the Independent Study ideal to the entire curriculum at the beginning of the year, but I
have yet to hear him elaborate (much less act on) this promise. Two unique practices by Drs. Kincaid and Palmer
have inspired long discussions with old buddy Hugh Marr. I offer the following simple plans which could revolutionize education at
Davidson and make it what our publicity claims (and all that without additional expense).

Most courses propose to provide the student with some competence in a general area, whether it be introductory economics, ethics,
or child psychology. Currently, this is mainly accomplished by consuming a text or two and regurgitating it on reviews and
exams (properly refracted to fit the professor’s biases, of course). This is absurd; nothing worth spending an entire course on
can be adequately covered by so few tests and only memory of the professor’s favorite dip is measured by most
tests.

The present testing system is rationalized by appealing to the grading system (which enslavement is in turn blamed on the
graduate schools). Thus, too many brownnosers (with good short-term memories) get good grades while others’ learning experiences and reflections are
downgraded. Instead, I propose that the student determine his grade on his work by passing objective tests on readings selected
from a bibliography prepared by the instructor. No one book covers all the facets of any area of study known
to me. Thus, it seems that broad reading in a field would be most beneficial (one of the excuses for
Area Exams).

The current grading system is absurd because so much is left to professorial whim. But the main concern of the
system is supposed to be the student. Rather than badger or force the student to do “extra” reading, why not
give him positive incentive? And why not give grades meaning if we're going to keep them?

Psychology Professor Palmer uses an ingenious plan as part of his courses with the student submitting several multiple-choice questions on
the reading as a ticket to take the quiz on that reading. To receive credit for that reading, Palmer requires
a fixed percentage of correct answers on the quiz with no penalty and opportunity to retake the quiz if one
falls short. The idea is to acquire a certain command of the material covered, not to punish failure. The advantages
of this plan are outstanding. The multiple-choice form offers a quick-scoring measure of the student’s work. And it’s relatively objective.
Palmer sets point ranges for each grade and the student determines the number of points he accumulates by his work.
But he also gives reviews and exams which cover the text and lectures.

What I am recommending is a somewhat more extensive application of Palmer's extra-reading plan. Why not test reading of the
text in the same way? After all, what is important is the student’s command of the materials; assigning a symbol
of failure or barely passing does not relieve the student and the professor of that responsibility.

Another important facet of Palmer’s plan is that the bibliography is open-ended; it can be added to by agreement of
the instructor and student. No one with a Davidson professor's teaching load can keep up with everything in his field
and there is no reason to limit the student. But learning is more than reading and multiple-choice; I agree. The
other facets of my plan include significant, qualitative elements but how do we assign an 86 to a poem, an
essay, or an opinion?

As a requirement for course credit—demanding satisfactory work, but not assigning a grade—I suggest a project or instead a paper.
A general form of a paper or two, several themes, and/or numerous short reports or essays. Again, this would depend
on the goals of the course. Classes should...be attended only on the basis of their worth. No one (at least
at Davidson) should have to hear someone paraphrase the text, tell his favorite anecdotes, or lecture unless he wants to.
Classes should be stimulating, informative, and lively. Films, speakers, debates, and active learning should be rampant, not rare. I would
make exams demanding, subjective essay affairs and most importantly — ungraded. They should challenge the student and professor to evaluate
the guide. Exams might be 25 pages in the term, not the student's cramming abilities. Some courses would not fit
this plan — notably languages, science, and mathematics — and they should not be forced into that pattern. For these,
I have other ideas. Dr. Kincaid gives unannounced reviews, I'm told. And others give pop quizzes. Knowing that any day
he is subject to testing on specific blocks of material, the student is forced to learn by accumulation. In other
words, you have to keep up. As a check against a miscalculated cut or extenuating circumstances, I'm told Kincaid allows
the student to drop his lowest grade from the record. Again the student would know in advance the material he
was responsible for and that his mastery of that material would be judged relatively objectively.

Finally, art should be offered on a pass-fail basis only. I know of no one able to quantitatively judge the
qualitative. The ideas offered above would, if applied, maximize the use of faculty and student resources and ingenuity. They would
not require additional funds or curriculum overhaul; they would use what we have. Davidson does not need an Honors College
with an elite thirty students and a handful of faculty; it needs one including the total community. I invite your
criticism. I welcome your suggestions. I challenge you to act.

“We worked out a sort of compromise”

FUTURE SITE OF THE COMBINED SET FRATERNITY COMMUNITY BASES, LOCKER ROOMS AND AA UTES ARCHITECTS

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Students Forced To Live In Homosexual World

My point is that isolating

To The Editor:

This letter is probably what we don't need. Another cry for coeducation in vague and general terms, from a student.
But in the face of asinine and two-faced remarks coming from the administration, I will say what I have to
say, and shut up.

This college (i.e. its leaders) needs to take a serious look at the effects on those of us (students only)
who are being forced to live in a homosexual world here at Davidson, in the technical sense of the term.
A lot of gibberish has been said and printed about the bestiality of “those horny bastards” asking for girls to
enliven their idle moments. The request is selfish and childish, they say.

But this is not what we are asking for in coeducation. We are asking only for a chance to live
in an adult world: with a serious intellectual environment, not one which comes from having nothing else to do.

Serious intellectual work cannot be done by emotional cripples, and no one ever had a serious thought who did not
know Love. Why can’t it happen here? Davidson is, all hip debunkery aside, a potential intellectual Garden of Eden. I
call it nothing but Perversion to try to keep this garden Sacred by eliminating The Dangerous Female from the field
of our temptations.

The perversions of sex which faculty expect of students are in fact held by anybody who defines “the garden” and
its amazing productivity in terms of its isolation from the Real World. Intellectual output comes with Experience, not before or
in spite of.

It looks like what they want here is a cloister peopled by Good Teachers who can inspire their Eager Students
to lay off masturbation long enough to get into graduate school, at which time they might “have their fun” and
get down to the real business of “intellectual productivity.”

Experience has the opposite effect. It dulls their minds at an early age. It builds in their Freudo-Skinnerian minds a
reaction against books if not Beauty. And if the monks have done their work well, the little eggheads will have
to keep on getting their kicks from Henry Miller because if and when Love does come to them they won't
be able even to recognize it (or not as well as they would have if the little seeds had grown
in a more fertile environment).

I hope some administrator stays up at least one full night thinking about those students who leave Davidson with the
same wrong notions about sex they came in with, wet behind the ears, since there has been nothing — literally
nothing — at Davidson which could be expected to change their minds. Nothing that “they” ever gave us.

John McLean ‘72
Davidson College

contend that some courses such as studio.
