Page Six March 26, 1971

DOWN THE LINE

The Ravidsantar (Staff photo by Lyle)

A Davidson slugger fires a hit against Baldwin-Wallace.

Wildcats Post Even Record As Toughest Season Opens

By A. W. TURNER

Davidson's baseball team has now launched into its toughest schedule in recent history, but early season results indicate that this
year’s squad may be one of the strongest in several years. Through eight games, the Wildcats had posted a 4-4
record despite a number of injuries due to early season cold weather and a number of games on the road.

The team went on a six-game road trip over the spring break and returned with a 3-3 mark. After splitting
a couple of one-run decisions with Baptist College, the ‘Cats won two slugfests over Armstrong, 22-5 and 13-12. Davidson then
traveled to Wilmington and dropped two good games to UNC-Wilmington, 1-0 and 5-2. Since the trip, the team has split,
beating Baldwin-Wallace 9-2 and losing to Pfeiffer 1-0.

Coach Tom Stevens was very optimistic about the baseball team this year. “We have a team that thinks it can
win,” he said. “We’re hustling a lot, and we're playing aggressive ball.” Stevens was pleased with some aspects of the
team, especially praising the hitting, which he called more consistent than last year. He was also happy with the pitching
performances so far with the exception of the two games with Armstrong.

Stevens has a larger and more balanced club this year than he has had in the past. Except for his
seasoned players such as Bill Barnill, Harold Wilkerson, Jack Latimer, and Lynn Wagner, Stevens has platooned frequently. “We have enough
good talent this year to be able to put in right-handers against left-handed pitchers and vice versa, to pinch hit
more often without losing defensive strength, and to be able to make defensive changes in the late innings,” he said.

The team is so well stocked that some very good-looking prospects such as Larry Graham, the first black baseball player
in Davidson history, are finding it hard to find a place in the line-up.

Tomorrow the Wildcats begin their Southern Conference schedule by playing a double-header with VMI. Besides the usual Southern Conference foes,
Davidson plays Duke, UNC-Chapel Hill, Virginia, and many other non-conference opponents this year. “It’s the toughest schedule we've had since
I’ve been here,” Stevens commented, “but we're a more aggressive team this year, and we've got a team that thinks
it can do the job.”

Skippers Place Fourth In First Spring Regatta

By JIM HANNA Copy Editor

The Davidson sailing team got off to a slow start for the spring season, as the Wildcats finished fourth out
of five teams in a regatta held at the University of South Carolina, March 6. Sophomore Jim Hunter, the team’s
senior skipper, expressed optimism for the season. “This was our first regatta,” said Hunter, “and we just weren't ready. We
only practiced one day, and this regatta was sort of squeezed in just before finals.”

Hunter said that, “As far as we're concerned, the real racing starts Saturday,” when Davidson hosts six teams in a
regatta to be held on Lake Norman. Tennessee, Duke, North Carolina, Citadel, South Carolina, and Clemson are scheduled to participate
along with Davidson in the regatta, slated to begin at 10:00 a.m.

“I think we will do well Saturday,” said Hunter. “I’m optimistic as far as spring goes. This should be a
good season for us.” Clemson, The Citadel, and South Carolina all placed ahead of Davidson.Davidson in the March regatta, but
Hunter discounted this factor in the upcoming event. “In the first regatta those three schools had the advantage of more
practice since they’ve got down there. We have a good chance against them this time.” The season regattas are in
preparation for the conference championships May 24 at Clemson. All the teams to be here Saturday are members of the
South Atlantic Interscholastic Sailing Association. During the season Coach Hallam Walker's team will participate in two regattas in Charleston, S.C.,
and at Tennessee and Old Dominion, warmer water.

Sidelines with JOE EARLE

Little can be said about the So Tournament now outside of it turned out to be the circus everyone predicted.
Prior to the tournament, from all corners of the conference, coaches and writers were prophesying some team would come out
of the pack and beat Davidson. The only problem was that nobody, particularly those of us from Davidson, believed them.
We went expecting to see a good circus and expecting to win. We got the show. Joe Williams was there
in his flashy new clothes upstaging anyone he saw. Lou Mills was there, grinning for the press after leading his
Spiders to the finals. We got the show, but we lost.

How can a team that had only lost one game in the conference, and consistently outplayed most of the same
teams it was competing against, lose? “We just got the heck beat out of us,” was all Coach Terry Holland
could say. Furman, or rather Jerry Martin, ran the Wildcats off the court. Martin and Don Jackson led an outside
attack for the Paladins that dissolved the Wildcat defense. But Furman’s outside shooting, disastrous as it was for the ’Cats,
was not the whole story. They just, as coaches are wont to say, out-quickened us. “They were running over us
on the outside and pushing us around under the basket,” Holland said. “During the first half we expected the referees
to stop it. When they didn’t, we did.”

Yet, it seems odd for Furman to be able to push the Wildcats around. After all, we had what most
coaches called the most physical team in the conference. Steve Kirley, Earl Minkin, and John Pecorak were the same players
that knocked around the bigger guys in our conference and some of those celebrated brutes in the A.C.C. But, maybe
the good guys do win in the end. Davidson managed to rake in the majority of the post-season honors that
can be won. Terry Holland was elected Coach of the Year for the Conference after the tournament. Holland managed to
beat out Furman’s Joe Williams by a healthy margin. In fact, the hero of the ice-cream suit came in a
poor third behind Warren Mitchell, the coach from William and Mary, another team eliminated in the semi-finals.

The Wildcats had three men to receive conference honors. Joe Sutter was the only ’Cat to make first team. Sutter
was lead scorer for the Wildcats, averaging 15.9 points a game. Steve Kirley was elected to second team all-conference and
Eric Minkin received an honorable mention. Sutter received a further honor, an honorable mention for the Associated Press all-American team.
Sutter was the only conference player to be elected to an all-American team. Maybe Lou Mills and Joe Williams got
to put on their show, but the Wildcats got the recognition in the end.

FABULOUS DINING | International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

Muthers Coffeehouse Theater 1225 Central Ave. phone 376-7100 Folk Music, Blues, Drama Cold Beer Open 7 nights a week 6:30
to 12:00. Rock Bands Sunday only 1-5
