Che Bavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

ED SHOAF, Editor-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 22, 1971

Making The Grade, With ‘Honors’

Before the Honors College was put into operation in the fall of this year, many students were prone to joke
“Is there an Honors College?” and if the answer was affirmative, the question came back, “then where is it?” Unfortunately,
the question “Is there an Honors College?” continues to haunt many students both inside and outside that mystical institution.

The point was brought home to many students by the recent letter to members of the Honors College stating that
they would be expected to do “honors” work in at least one of their courses or honors projects. For those
not familiar with the lingo of that select group, the letter means that at least one “A” is expected out
of members of the Honors College per term if they are to continue in the programs. The penalty for not
making this “A” is a bit vague though members of the group would probably use the term “unstructured.”

This new requirement is a disappointment for several reasons. For one thing, it implies a rigidity not indicated in the
outline of the Honors College distributed to students last spring. Making certain grades are not a prerequisite for membership in
the college we had been told. But even worse, the new requirement re-exposes the Honors College student to the rather
capricious academic evaluation system existing at Davidson. The guise of a higher structure only thinly veils the system in effect
for the student body at large, and in light of the “honors” requirement the veil appears more diaphanous than ever.

We readily admit that in theory the admissions process for the Honors College should find students motivated to the point
that little evaluation need be made of their work as long as it is properly guided. We also admit that
any selection process may make mistakes and that some method needs to exist for recognizing these mistakes and correcting them.
Yet in the eyes of many students, the present method does not seem to be the one they expected to
find in the Honors College. We hope that while the Honors College is still developing as a relatively young campus
institution, it will remain flexible enough to avoid the rigidity students want to escape by entering it. If such will
be the case, perhaps student alarm at the present requirement will prove unjustified.

Pricing Competition

It is now official, applications to Davidson this year are dramatically below their levels of previous years. Either high school
seniors are finally beginning to wise up or Davidson needs to examine itself for some real problems. H. Edmunds White
has noted one factor which may be major and that is of increasing college costs. While Davidson is priced below
several other institutions in the state, costs are still high and seem to get higher every year. There could be
a real danger that Davidson might price itself right out of the student diversity it hopes to attract.

We would like to urge our new Vice President in charge of finances to seriously consider this problem because more
than anything, Davidson is its students. New and imaginative solutions to the financial problems of higher education need to be
found before Davidson loses the quality of that most valuable of its resources.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Alumnus Solicits Opinions; Black Program Discussed

ED. NOTE: The following was sent as an open letter to the Davidson trustees, faculty, students, and staff. Replies should
be mailed to 3708 Horton Street, Apartment 203, Raleigh, N.C. 27607.

To the Editor:

I'm curious. As an alumnus, I have been wondering:
1) What are the three most critical problems facing Davidson today? Why?
2) What will be the three most critical problems facing Davidson in, say 1980? Why?
3) What is my role, if any, as an alumnus?

I’m convinced there is a desperate need for alumni to undertake a new dialogue with Davidson. I’m just one alumnus
looking for a roadmap to that dialogue.

AND I WAS KICKED OUT OF HONORS COLLEGElike your reaction — signed or unsigned.
Tom L. Covington Jr. ’61
Raleigh, N. C.

ED. NOTE: The following response is from a former student at Whitworth College. Anyone interested in the programs offered should
write: Urban-Black Semester Programs, 1449 Cornell Street, Berkeley, California 94702.

To the Editor:

This summer I was involved in an educational experience which has been to me as a seed planted in fertile
soil, something which continues to grow, which I have to talk about, which gives me hope, that cut through my
own racism where I could see it and talk about it, which was unique in its total involvement with my
life and the life of my American society.

I have to tell you about it because it is one of the few real educational programs around. It carries
in its design more than what is considered classroom education, something more than words. The education I want to share
with you comes under the title “Urban-Black Semester Programs.” The usual classroom rap of power, violence, sex, civil rights? Yes,
I received lectures on these topics and more, but my involvement was not limited to lectures and book lists.

Each student worked from four to six hours a day under black leadership as a volunteer in a community organization.
This phase of the program brought into reality what I had read and intellectualized. I gained new perspectives for my
own understanding of the white-black polarization by experiencing the black community as teacher. The program provided the setting for an
atmosphere of reciprocal hearing as the struggle continued for understanding and meaning between people.

The combination of the three phases — intensive lectures and reading concerning the black experience, community involvement, and reflection seminars
— made this a time of cohesive learning. School that made sense. Life. But still, “What did it all mean?”
People ask me that all the time and I think the question is valid, and yet, it is not one
I choose to answer to you. I choose rather to answer myself. My own accountability to the blatant racism that
is being perpetuated in our country is my responsibility, and only I know what power I have to affect change
within my own community. It matters not so much for you to know what part I am taking in the
struggle, as it matters for you to know what part you are taking.

So I hear you saying — “Why does she ever bother to write this article, if she chooses not to
tell about her personal involvement of the present?” I bother because the Urban-Black Semester Programs helped me get my head
together, and begin to see the power that I could use to stimulate change. I write because I believe in
this type of educational experience for those people who are seriously motivated to “do something.” It provides the sensitivity necessary
for understanding the complexity of racial polarization and the self-preparation necessary for a new racial reality in America.

Carel Carpenter
Spokane, Washington

Student Decides His Own Dorm Policy
Intercollegiate Press

Early this year there was a great deal of speculation about the University of Minnesota’s then-new policy which allows students
to have guests of either sex visit them in their dorms at any hour. The 24-hour policy is in effect
for the majority of the Twin Cities campus dorm residents this year. Studies made available this fall indicated that few
parents oppose the policy — which is neither as wide-open as many assume, nor is it put to maximum use
by students.

Nearly two-thirds of the students living in dorms live under the 24-hour option; about 80 percent of these students are
under 21 years old and have parental permission. Almost one-third have chosen limited visitation and some two percent opted for
no visitation. None of the University’s eight dorms operates entirely under one option. Instead, units within each dorm operate separately
under the policy chosen by its students. For example, Frontier Hall, with 10 units, has seven with 24-hour visitation, two
with limited visitation, and some none at all.
