Vol. LXI No. Four

A TYPICAL VOTING DAY

Freshman Chip Jones instructs a voter on ballot procedure.

10 SGA Senators Elected; Poll Supports Concert Fee

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

member — of for the College Union H ed that “roup, Harrisburg 8 including — the not the dormitories), co granted beer permits i enlist a person o “manager could to act as almost juny c “Board end the eating clubs but

OCTOBER 1, 1971

Peace Coalition Secures $250 For Moratorium Activities
By TOM BRUCE
Staff Writer

At a Tuesday meeting of the Senate, 250 dollars was granted to the Davidson Peace Coalition to secure two speakers for the October Moratorium. Ron Young, the National Director of Youth Work for the Fellowship of Reconciliation, will speak at Davidson.

In the course of debate over the proposal, Senior Robert Morey, a member of the Young Americans for Freedom, indicated that his group is assembling a pro-Vietnam counter moratorium group which will probably petition the Senate for funds to secure speakers who will represent their view.

Peace Coalition members Ralph Peeples, Howard Ramage, and Wilson Gunn disclosed that they have already succeeded in soliciting more than half of the expense of the Moratorium from other sources, among them the United Board and a cooperative venture with the University of North Carolina Charlotte.

Sister Elizabeth McAlister, a member of the Harrisburg 8 charged with conspiracy to kidnap Henry Kissinger, will speak on both the Davidson and UNC campuses.

Bill Alexander then moved that Grey House representative be seated on the voting advisory committee until the drafting committee can make the official provisions.

In other action Senator Doug Brown presented his report on efforts to request a beer permit for the dormitories. The Senate voted to instruct Brown to act as an advisor to other groups who might apply for the permit, since the Senate needs to apply for the license as a last resort.

By DAVID HANIG
News Editor

College will not be granted beer permits according to D. Campus Union. The Union director of the Library Chalmers G. Davidson stated that the new E. H. Little Library to be built on the site of the present library will be “a Grecian temple with a dome and columns.”

Final plans, which are currently being given the last touches by the architect, call for the second floor of the library to extend out from the building so that there will be a covered arcade in the front. According to Leland M. Park, assistant director of the library, the structure will have about one hundred thousand square feet of floor space divided between the ground floor, second

By DON PARMAN
Editor-in-Chief

The Davidson student Senate was brought to full strength Wednesday with the election of 10 new senators.

Perhaps the biggest surprise in the dorm senator races was David Foerster’s first ballot victory in the Cannon contest where he took 74 percent of the vote against two other opponents.

Other first ballot victors included Steve LeResche, Wes Belk, Gus Succop, and David Craven.

In run-off elections Frank Brown presented his report on efforts to request a beer permit for the dormitories. The Senate voted to instruct Brown to act as an advisor to other groups who might apply for the permit, since the Senate needs to apply for the license as a last resort.

In a special issue a social council poll demonstrated convincingly student support for an added fee for concerts. The question as to whether or not to charge an additional fee for concert admission was approved by a 425 to 90 vote. The result is only to serve as an indication of student opinion on the issue and does not serve to direct social council policy. Election workers indicated that a student referendum on the question of affiliating with the National Student Association will be organized shortly. Davidson has been associated with the NSA for some time and the Senate felt that it was necessary to extend out from the building so that there will be a covered arcade in the front.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Senate elections: Steve Canter-Dana, the incumbent dorm senator, received a heavy senior vote. The vote was cast in time to catalog students from the floor and basement; however, Berry led the balloting for freshman senator from Little, losing to Danny by eight votes. Bo Phillips edged Larry Spears for the Richardson seat by the same margin. Billy Colvin set a precedent in the Sentelle election by becoming the first upperclassman to run for senate from a freshman dorm. Colvin is one of a number of upperclassmen living in Sentelle basement. Senator Danny Clodfelter sent Bill Meier's motion to provide for a Senate seat to a draft (See LIBRARY, p. 3).

Cornell ‘Ambivalent’ On Coeducation
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell said in a recent interview that he is “ambivalent” on the coeducation issue. “I think I see both sides of the coin on this issue,” Cornell said. “On the one hand, I do believe there is a place for the single-sex school in higher education, yet on the other hand, I see the advantages of coeducation.”

Cornell stressed, however, that there are a lot of questions in his mind which have to be resolved before he will take a definite stand. “One of the basic questions which particularly concerns me is what are the financial implications of coeducation?” he said. “Can we afford to go coed, and after that, can we continue to support this institution if it is coeducational?”

Cornell said that 500 women cannot be superimposed on campus without raising the endowment. The present per-student endowment amounts to $1,800. If the college is to maintain this level but increase its size, it must add another $9 million to the endowment. “And this does not include costs for additional dormitory facilities and classroom space,” he said.

“What about the faculty-student ratio?” he continued. “We have embraced this as a truism in the quality of education we offer. If we are to maintain our present ratio, we must add additional faculty salaries to the budget.”

To finance the phasing of coeducation, the college has four alternatives, according to Cornell: reduce the per-student endowment, raise tuition, cut corners in the academic structure, or just hope that enough money will find its way into the college's coffers. Cornell said that reducing the per-student endowment and cutting corners academically were unwise educationally, and tuition can only be increased so far before the college prices itself out of the market.

“You never know about endowment,” Cornell said. “Maybe we should choose the last alternative and just hope it works. I've seen other colleges do this. Sometimes they succeed and sometimes they fail. Nevertheless, coeducation is going to be expensive,” Cornell said.

The vice president also is concerned about the financing of the college after the phasing is completed. Will the alumni continue to support the school? What about large donors; will they be disenchanted with a coed Davidson? “These are questions which we are going to have to consider very seriously before we make a final decision on coeducation,” Cornell said. “We will have to study the fund-raising patterns of similar schools as Davidson which have gone coed.”

Cornell also expressed concern about the academic mix of the college. “I've talked to people at Yale which says that it is a coed institution, but many up there say that the school is still male with a few women hanging around.”

“The Educational Policy Committee and the Budget, Building, and Ground Committee must look at all these questions before a decision on coeducation can be reached,” he said. “Not only must we say that it is academically and financially feasible, but we also have to come up with a plan that works,” he said.

Cornell cautioned students against simplifying the coeducation issue to such an extent that they ignore the difficult questions that have to be answered. But he also admitted that the issue must soon be settled. “The longer the issue looms in front of us, the more restless the natives become,” Cornell said. “I don't want to be the bogeyman on the issue of coeducation in saying that it is not economically feasible,” he said. “But I do believe we must approach coeducation in a sensible manner both academically and financially.”