Friday, February 5
10 a.m. Speech: Senator Robert Packwood

Saturday, February 6
8:30 a.m. Graduate
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital

Monday, February 8
7 p.m. Film: "Aren't We Wonderful"

Tuesday, February 9
10 a.m. Lecture: Dietrich Ritschl
2 p.m. Film: "Long Day’s Journey Into Night"
7:30 p.m. Film: "The Innocents"
8:15 p.m. Chemistry Majors Dinner
Speakers: Peter Sykes

Wednesday, February 10
3 a.m. Poet: Bill Butler

Friday, February 12
8 p.m. Concert: New York Rock Ensemble
8 p.m. Movie: "Charly"
10 p.m. Poet: Bill Butler

Saturday, February 13
10 a.m. Pancake Eating Contest
8 p.m. Movie: "Charly"
8:30 p.m. Concert: Goose Creek Symphony

Hungry d: Townes Van Zandt
7:30 p.m. Union Bar
9:30 p.m. Union Bar

By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

The student Senate, in an unprecedented move, has recently voted to allot funds to help finance fraternity parties for houses
under the new social system. The allocation came as a result of several developments concerning the new program. SGA President
Ran Coble said, "We have been working on ironing out the problems and complaints of the new social system." A
group composed of Coble and senators Gary Cash, Bob Meadows, and Bill Ralston studied the implementation of the system along
with Dean of Students Will Terry. The first action of this committee, taken at the suggestion of the hall counselors,
was to create orientation groups for assignment to an eating club instead of sending the freshmen down individually. The fraternities
in the program responded favorably to this change, but it was pointed out that the pro-

Applications Total Down

With applications still lagging behind totals of previous years, H. Edmunds White, director of admissions and financial aid, has expressed
qualified concern for the quality of this fall’s freshman class. "I am somewhat apprehensive at this point," White said, "and
I think that I would be unrealistic if I did not have that feeling. My concern is that the class
we enroll may not have the same strength as in the past." White indicated that the number of applications was
noticeably behind the total for the same time in past years, but noted that this trend may be part of
a general

Pickens Wins Medical Grant

Vanderbilt University has awarded a Justin Potter Scholarship this year to Charles Andrew Pickens, a senior pre-med student at Davidson.
The $3,000 scholarship includes $800 for expenses in addition to the regular tuition of $2,200 at the medical school. Winners
of the scholarship are chosen from their academic records and through interviews. Pickens is the son of Mr. and Mrs.
Robert O. Pickens of Spartanburg, S.C.

According to figures which White has gathered from 18 other roughly comparable institutions, only four—Florida Presbyterian, Southwestern, Haverford, and Vanderbilt—have
seen increases in the number of applications. None of the four anticipated more than 100 additional applications this spring. Applications
for Wake Forest are slightly down this year. Six other schools—Centre, Emory, Furman, Swarthmore, Tulane, Amherst, and Wesleyan—have all had
application decreases of over 100. Duke, Sewanee, St. Andrews, Stetson, Williams, Washington and Lee, and Wofford all indicated that their
applications from men have remained about the same. "One director of admissions wrote and told us 'Your applications are down
because everyone else’s are too,'" said White. White said that the application deadline, February 15, would not be strictly adhered
to this year, but added that this was not an unusual procedure. "It is still too early to tell whether
there is any difference in the quality of the applicants this year," said White. "But from the ones I have
seen, we are still in a relativelyGood positions with respect to other fine institutions, of course, we still want to
measure against our past classes. This week the admissions is hosting a group of potential black applicants. White said that
the list of black prospects stands as the result of work begun last spring.

Camera
By WINDY MARCH
Staff Writer

For the first time, Davidson College owns a movie camera for general student use. George Allen described the new super-8
Bolex as the “best eight-millimeter camera available.” Allen Lewis is in charge of the camera, and for two dollars a
week, any student can use it. The camera was bought by the school at the instigation of Allen, Dick Hinson,
and Steve Engstrom. All are seniors, who have an interest in film-making. The three have written and begun shooting a
film, in the style of a fictitious documentary, concerning the life of an individual at Davidson College. Julie Ferrell, a
student at Queens, will play a role in the film.

Work on this film is momentarily halted; Engstrom is away from Davidson this quarter, and the three have run out
of money—they were operating on an activities grant of fifty dollars. But all three are enthusiastic about the growth of
facilities for student film-makers at Davidson. The camera is presently being used by Bobby Allen, a junior who is studying
at Hollins under the exchange program.

The problem of getting the freshmen together with the old house members was not solved. Spokesmen for the fraternities suggested
the possibility of an initial social gathering in their respective houses between freshmen and regular members to familiarize the newcomers
with what was offered in a house. To finance this social function each of the eight houses applied for $30,
according to Coble, and these requests ($240) were approved unanimously after short discussion at a meeting last week. Coble said,
“This is part of the Senate’s commitment to the new social system since much of what we proposed was accepted
by the Committee of Eighteen.” Coble added that the specific use of the money would be left up to the
individual houses. He stated that the requests were granted only for “an initial social gathering between the freshmen and the
members of the houses.”

Coble admitted that the grant was unique in two respects, that money had never before been given for a social
function of this type and that SGA funds had never directly or indirectly purchased alcoholic beverages. He said that the
acceptance was “unintentionally exclusive, but only in the sense that lots of budget requests we consent to are exclusive.” Coble
explained that this applied to many cases in which money was given to individuals to attend conferences, but that he
“just doesn't get many group social requests.”

Lyman Parrigin, spokesman for the fraternities which rejected the new social program, commented on the fund: “It is inconceivable to
me that the Senate could so openly practice discrimination with student funds. This proposal should be objectionable both to fraternity
men and independents.” Coble stated that other houses on the court could make similar requests for party money, but last
night the Senate defeated such a proposal by a vote of 8-6.

Alpha Tau Omega is planning to have its party tonight, and a keg will be provided. Brian Tarr, president of
the house, said that the money received from the Senate will be used to pay for the beer indirectly, but
he added that his house made no application for any funds from the SGA. Pi Kappa Alpha is also going
to have its party with a keg next Thursday. At other houses dates for the parties were still undecided.

OPEN 9-8
The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY

“Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti”
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Salads — ICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Ph. 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

THINK ABOUT A CAREER IN GOVERNMENT
WE'LL BE ON CAMPUS SOON
Contact your campus placement office
