Page Six May 14, 1971

The Davidsonian

Two Freshmen Teams Fight Into IMAC Softball Playoffs

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

East II and Cannon II survived lower bracket elimination play to complete the ten-team upper bracket as the IMAC softball
tournament got underway this week. East II exploded for a nine-run third inning and went on to crush Cannon I
21-1, as Frank Corriher stymied the losers and received near-flawless support in the field. Tuesday, Corriher bested Russ Merritt of
the Bastard Snus as East II won a pitchers' duel 2-1. Mike McFarland and Sam McAliley belted back-to-back doubles in
the sixth as the freshmen rallied twice, after Greg Johnson's RBI-single had given the Bastard Snus a 1-0 lead. The
Snus had advanced by pounding the Indies 24-5 Monday, after jumping off to an 8-0 first inning lead.

Meanwhile, Cannon II, after gaining a forfeit over East I Monday, slipped past the SAEs 6-4 to join East II
in the upper bracket tourney. Dave Ingold clouted a three-run homer to spark a four-run third inning uprising after a
two-run throwing error had staked the E's to a 3-0 advantage in the first. The E's tied it up 4-4
in the fifth, but the freshmen, behind Rick Mack's triple and Dave Parkhurst's double, scored twice in the sixth to
wrap up the win. The E's had advanced on Monday by using three Gamm errors in the last inning to
notch a 1-0 victory.

The upper bracket tournament began Wednesday with two first round games, East II-KA and Cannon II-ATO, and two quarterfinal clashes,
Machi against Pika and the Sigs against the Betas. The East II-KA winner faced the Delts and the Tau-Cannon II
victor met the SPEs to complete the quarterfinals on Thursday.

Netters Blank Wofford, Pfeiffer

By ERIC VERNON
Sports Writer

The Davidson netmen closed out their 1971 season with two 9-0 victories over Pfeiffer and Wofford. These wins put the
'Cats overall record at 19-5. Next year’s schedule will be slightly shorter than the past season, but rematches with Navy,
George Washington, and Harvard have been scheduled. Tennis Coach Harry Fogleman said that he hopes to schedule about 22 to
24 matches for the coming year. This year the netmen scheduled about 30 matches. Next season has been lengthened by
two weeks due to a change in the dates for the conference tournament. William and Mary has been recommended for
the site of the 1972 tourney, but Davidson will make an effort to host the netters for the third straight
year. Fogleman said that the Wildcats will have to work much harder next year to retain the conference title. The
netters are losing three key men, Jim Cantrell and Jeff Chetwood by graduation, and Jeff Dumansky by transfer.

By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Spring practice is the time when football players learn plays, do calisthenics to get back into shape, and when wins
or losses...On the scrimmage field, yardage is measured instead of points. Spring practice is also the time for assessing the
potential of the coming football team, and Davidson head coach Dave Fagg is optimistic. The Wildcats are over halfway finished
with their off-season workouts, and Fagg is pleased with the team’s performance and confident in their potential. Next year's Wildcat
gridders will offer a more varied attack, with perhaps more emphasis than before on the running game.

“We have six fine running backs,” he said, “and both John Ribet and Bill Bracken will be back. They gained
over 600 yards last year.” Fagg was also pleased with the early performance of his string of quarterbacks. “Rick Kemmertlin
and Scotty Shipp are fighting it out for the number one spot at quarterback,” he said, “and Mike Allport and
Steve Keller, two freshmen, have come along very well.” He cited especially Shipp’s passing ability.

The next group of Wildcat gridders will be young, with only 28 members of the squad being upperclassmen. The only
well-seasoned squad on the team is the defensive backfield. The most questionable parts of the team lie in the offensive
and defensive lines. Both are inexperienced, with only defender Bill Garrett tested in previous varsity competition. “The linemen have had
little experience in varsity competition,” Fagg said, “and we can only wait and see how they compete.”

The receivers gained special praise from Fagg, particularly Andy Davis, whom he called “one of the finest at Davidson.” This
year the spring practice season will be capped off with a varsity-alumni game. This game will replace the traditional red
and white scrimmage. “We are really excited about the prospects of having an alumni game on alumni weekend,” Fagg said.
“It is a new experience for us and we hope it will get people interested in Davidson.” Fagg said that
he expects over 40 alumni to participate in the contest. Only 17 competitors will be from last year’s squad. The
varsity-alumni contest will be held next weekend.

Tennis competition got underway with the field wide open in the double-elimination tournament. The defending champion Sigs lost Billy Mohr
to the Gamms and William Brown to graduation, leaving the favorite’s role up for grabs. The Indies, with Ran Coble
and Charlie Ralston, the Delts, who slate Duncan Postma, Jack Caldwell, Barden Cooke, and Jack Steele, the SPEs, with Buzz
Tarver, Johnny Bruner, Bill Alexander, and Mike Hood, and the Pikas, who have Steve Roady and Alex Gordon, all appear
to have solid teams.

(Staff photo by Erwin)
FRESHMAN IN THE PLAYOFFS
Frank Corriher leads East over the Bastard Snus.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

Botany 500
Hunter Haig
Palm Beach

For your dress-up occasions, fashions you can afford. See our fashions for campus, lake, or beach wear. New half-sleeve shirts,
slacks, swimwear.

John Mock & Son
Mooresville, N.C.
