Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR SEPTEMBER 10, 1971

Resolution

This week marks both a beginning and a turning point. We welcome the new freshman class and the transfer students to Davidson and commiserate with the upperclassmen. At the same time, this issue marks the close of the current editorial staff's year. It is difficult to look at the accomplishments of the paper over the past spring with unmixed feelings. Several of our campaign promises of last year remain unfulfilled. We have not used the paper as a means of helping Davidson merge with the other Charlotte colleges into a larger intellectual community. We have not had the opportunity to be as innovative as we would have liked in the layout and content of the newspaper itself. THE DAVIDSONIAN has not been the educational asset that it should be to the campus. But things have, we believe, been right with the paper as well. Despite our minimal staff last year, we are quite pleased with the depth of coverage we were able to provide. We feel comfortable with our analysis style of coverage, interpreting campus events, not distorting them.

This fall we look to implement several new concepts, some in the immediate future, others later in the term. We hope to have regular guest columns by the faculty on issues within their field, issues which are important to the students. We want to give more attention to the world around us, Charlotte, North Carolina, the country, and beyond. We hope to use more pictures to enhance the aesthetic appeal of the paper. Communication, whatever means our end. There are important issues facing Davidson and Davidson students. It is our hope to be able to give careful, complete coverage to several issues which we feel are of considerable import to Davidson — including coeducation, fiscal policies, community relations, academic innovations, and student participation in policy decisions. We hope it works.

Student Votes

The question of student voter registration and residency requirements is a difficult one, a question fraught with tensions and fears. The question is now headed for the courts where the legality of the residency statutes of North Carolina will be questioned. The problem is now headed for the courts where students who live for only four years on campus be legitimately precluded from voting while the young executive, in town for a year and a half, is eligible? Can we be residents for the census, used for redistricting, and then be ignored as voters? Is it legitimate to ask for an oath of intent (for permanency of residence) of one group of people and not another?

The fear which the people in towns like Greenville, Cullowhee, Davidson, and Chapel Hill have is understandable. The student enrollment at the colleges in these towns can have a major impact on local politics. Students are in and out in four years. Bond elections and their consequences don’t move along with the class of 1973. The townspeople are afraid of a Berkeleysque takeover of the political structures. But at the same time, the Mecklenburg Republicans might well fear a Democratic takeover. If students, or a black-student alliance, hold more votes than the current administration, then it is their democratic right to control office and make the administrative decisions.

Aside from the theoretical standpoint, our observation would be that the town of Davidson has really very little to fear from a court decision which would permit Davidson students to vote here. Most will still vote at home, feeling more comfortable with the issues and candidates there. Further, a 70% turnout in an SGA election is considered excellent. The guess would be that a town council election in Davidson would rank just a couple of steps lower in excitement for the typical student here.

BOBBY ALLEN

What We Really Need Is A Good Dose Of ‘Men’s Lib’

My first column for THE DAVIDSONIAN last fall was about going to Hollins for the year. The column was an attempt to answer the question, “Why would any Davidson man (normal and interested by definition) relinquish his secure environment to become an attendee in a somewhat dubious world of an all-female college?” The question must be answered. A man’s college is a momentary orientation and identity. A male in such a situation would be a stranger in a strange land. It’s a year later and I must now address myself to the follow-up question, “Now that you’ve been, what did you learn?”

To begin with, the assumption of a woman’s college being feminine in orientation is false. Oh, of course, it may appear to be so: more female instructors, more concentration in “arty” disciplines, etc., but Hollins (not just Hollins, but Hollins as representative of all-female colleges) is just as male-oriented as Davidson, only one step removed. The president and key administrators are male; the president's reasons for keeping Hollins single-sex are typically male — “the girls would feel inhibited in a co-ed classroom;” most girls still structure their weeks around weekends at male campuses; and most will eventually relinquish their talents, skills, or training to the desires and plans of a male. Parents who send their daughters to Hollins do so more for its geographical and social proximity to W&L and U.Va. than for its educational opportunities. I also learned that some girls no longerRespond to this subliminal male domination with traditionally assured feminine acquiescence. I say some, not all—not most—some. This group responds with varying degrees of rejection of the traditionally male-female roles so ingrained in American culture. The rejection usually begins with that all-important college ritual, the blind date. The girl goes to W&L for the weekend, is pawed for three days, enticed with liquor, and made to feel exactly like what the guy wants: two tits and an ass. If she’s more than that, it doesn't take very long for her to get sick of it. Unlike the acquiescents, who stick it out until they find some guy who either isn't all hands or has compensation for being so (like a GTO, good-looking fraternity brothers, or a position in his father's law firm), some girls refuse to play the game.

Their rejection of the blind-date syndrome and all it connotes may range from more discriminatory acceptance of dates to complete refusal to date at all. Let's pause for a minute to answer the question, “Why do college boys vie for the Giant Squid Award to begin with?” Part of it is the implicit horniness of male college students, especially males in an all-male environment. But the main reason guys inflict themselves on girls is the great fear of Post-College Virginity. You come to college to learn, and one of the things you learn is how to score. The stigma carried by failing to score is much greater than that of failing Biology 21. It's taken for granted that if you don't make it, you can't make it. So that if you don't, you sure as hell make everybody think you do; hence the all-pervasive fear of virginity and the consequent obsession to de-virginize oneself. Unfortunately, de-virginizing oneself (heterosexually, at least) requires a female—not all of whom are willing to be the instrument of one’s de-virginization—which brings us back to the point of departure of this tangent.

We were speaking of a girl's rejection of the blind-date syndrome. More important than the resultant dating (or non-dating) pattern is the introspection which is usually precipitated by the rejection of the college social system. This introspection (what is wrong with me?) turns to analysis of the system (Why is it like this?) and finally to examination of her niche in the system (Where do I fit in, if indeed I do?). This thought process is extremely important as it marks the beginning of the end of blind acceptance of the subordinate feminine role in interpersonal relationships. It means more and more thinking women (those who are not completely brainwashed by social conditioning) will refuse to chuck all their training, ambitions, and skills in order to become a child-bearer. They’re going to start asking why their vocational plans aren’t just as important as those of their prospective mates. They’re going to start demanding that 50-50 partnership in actuality, rather than in name only.

What does all this mean for the Davidson man? It means he can stay as he is and get a marshmallow brain, or he can start restructuring his thinking and actions. It means he is going to be confronted by a new kind of woman and a new kind of relationship—one in which he must be secure enough in himself to be liberated from archaic notions of what comprises masculinity. To sum it up—when it comes to “the male role in life” we could use a good dose of men’s lib.

SPE Nationals Puzzle Stough

To The Editor:

Re: “Delt's KA’s Return to Court” July-August, 1971,

I am shocked and dismayed that THE DAVIDSONIAN would print the above article which contains false information. The paragraph to which I refer is as follows:

Although the town council in June zoned against boarding houses in residential areas, members of the SPE claim they had settled on their house and began operations before the zoning law was passed.

At the meeting of the Town Council in June (at which I was present) James Williams, an SPE alumnus, stated that the house had not been bought yet because of a problem with the title. Subsequent to the meeting, the property was surveyed. Until the middle of June, Charles Cornwell, a member of the Davidson faculty, lived in the house. After he vacated, the Tom Williams moved back in. They did not move out until July. Thus, the boarding house has not been and cannot be operated because North Main Street is in a residential area. The house also cannot be used as a fraternity because there is a town ordinance of long standing prohibiting fraternity houses in residential areas. It seems that the SPE fraternity or their representatives have a house to rent because they bought it after the town ordinances were passed.

Boarding houses and fraternity houses can be operated in areas zoned institutional, industrial, or business in the Town of Davidson. They cannot be operated in any residential areas. I am also surprised that men would pledge large amounts of money for the purchase of a house before they knew the zoning facts. Maybe Davidson men aren't as smart as I’ve always thought!

Mary Fetter Stough
Davidson, N. C.

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that week. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.