Page Eight

October 1, 1971

The Davidsonian

Skippers Seek Opening Win At USC

By BILL MORRIS
Sports Writer

The Davidson Sailing Team opens the sailing season this Saturday with the first regatta of the 1971 fall competition being held at the University of South Carolina.

Senior letterman Allen Lundy was very optimistic in stating the team’s chances.

“We’re very strong, coming off of a good spring showing when we won one regatta and finished second in two, and we definitely should be in contention for this year’s championship,” Lundy commented.

“We have all of last year’s team back, plus some freshmen and a team member returning from a year abroad, while the other teams have lost key personnel through graduation,” he added.

Davidson's team is a member of the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association along with twelve other colleges and universities in the area.

Meets are held at the different schools making up this conference during the two parts of the sailing season, fall and spring.

“The important meet is the last one of the season. The others are really just for experience and to see what the other schools have.

“There are awards given in these meets, but the big one is the final meet which determines the champion of the conference. It should be between The Citadel, Clemson, University of Tennessee, and Davidson,” Lundy said.

The Davidson Sailing Team is approximately fifteen strong, taken from the thirty-man Sailing Club.

Two boats are raced in each regatta, one in the “A” division, and the other in the “B” division, from each school.

Presently Jimmy Hunter, a junior, is skipper of one boat and Lundy, a senior, is skipper of the other.

“Crew members and skippers vary from race to race according to practice, and different factors such as where the race is held and under what conditions,” Lundy said.

Saturday, the crew members will be Tom King, a freshman, and Frank Sommerville, a sophomore. Other skippers are Daryl Douglas, a sophomore; Dan Johnston, a senior, and John Mack, a senior. Hunter and Johnston both have varsity letters.

Not only is this year’s team a good one but the members are also very colorful. Dan Johnston, who was one of the best skippers before his year abroad in France, is working back into his position. He has been accused of breaking most of the rules of good sailing.

Jimmy Hunter has the habit of burning incense in his boat to better judge the wind currents. He’s also been known to chew tobacco as he sails and when passing an opponent he makes use of the other boat as a spittoon.

So it appears that Davidson has the makings of quite a team, according to Lundy, and the big test of the season should be the Davidson meet.

“With Davidson being located centrally in relationship to the other schools, all of them should be here for that meet. Lake Norman can be a pretty rough place to sail. If we can beat the other teams here, especially The Citadel, then I think we can beat them anywhere.”

Freshmen Harriers Disappoint Martin

By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

There were only a couple of flies in cross-country coach Sterling Martin's soup last weekend.

Martin’s charges traveled to Atlanta Saturday, where they competed in the Stone Mountain Road Race.

“Overall, they ran well against outstanding competition,” said Martin, “but a couple of things were disappointing to me.”

The first thing was that freshman Ricky Bell, whom Martin has been expecting to lead the team this year, ran a rather poor race, covering the five-mile course in 31:31.

“Ricky had some problems with his legs tying up on him,” said Martin.

The second was that although the team’s times were good, they weren’t quite good enough.

“We had several men under thirty minutes, but I had hoped more would finish under twenty-nine minutes,” said Martin.

As it turned out, only team captain Howard Boyd broke twenty-nine minutes. His time was 28:26.

The remainder of the Wildcat top five, however, all got in under the half-hour mark.

Joe Shibley ran second for Davidson with a 29:03 performance.

Freshman Rick Mullen ran what Martin called a “very fine time” of 29:12. He was followed by Ron Clark, who had a personal best of 29:15, and George Edwards, clocked in at 29:33.

The harriers’ next meet will be with Western Carolina on Monday, Oct. 4, and not even a team nucleus will be much help to the ‘Cats.

“We’ll be lucky to break up their first seven runners,” said Martin. “Last year, the Western team put eleven men in front of our first man.”

The Western squad finished second at Stone Mountain, and one of their runners was second in the individual competition.

LIBRA, SEPT. 24-OCT. 23

Schlitz Malt Liquor can give a lazy Libra the lift he needs.

Libra—You're thoughtful, clever, congenial, and gifted with a magnetic personality. And—you’re also lazy.

That's why you should team up with Schlitz Malt Liquor—Taurus, the Bull. The Bull is known for its powerful, dynamic, dependable good taste. Schlitz Malt Liquor is just the thing to melt away the gloom and fire your ambition.

But, be careful. When you get together with your most compatible signs, Gemini and Aquarius, you can tend to go overboard. And that's not wise when you're dealing with the Bull. You'll need all the good judgment your sign is noted for when you drink Schlitz Malt Liquor.

Librans like good food, good clothes, good music. And that kind of good taste just naturally leads you to the good taste of Schlitz Malt Liquor.

Nobody makes malt liquor like Schlitz. Nobody.