Page Fight October 8, 1971 The Davidsonian Four IMAC Teams Remain Unbeaten By HOWARD BOYD Asst. Sports Editor Four teams remained unbeaten through Tuesday's games in IMAC flickerball as the season passed the halfway mark. The Delts played only once, thumping the Taus 31-13 to run their record to 3-0. End Drew White tallied three times and added a PAT to pace the victors. Kent Breard and Joel Bradley snagged TD aerials for the losers, now 2-3. Cannon I ripped Watts I 32-6 behind Jim Prince’s two touchdowns, ripping their record to 4-1 and remaining in second place behind the Delts in the first division of League A. The Betas gained a win by forfeit over Watts I and climbed into third at 3-2. In Division II of League A, the Sigs and Pikas both took victories to remain unbeaten en route to their showdown Monday. The Sigs exploded for 27 second-half points and buried Emanon II 41-0, paced by a balanced attack and a stout defense. Guard Bill Lear caught a pair of TD passes and five teammates each scored once as the Pikas exploded to a 33-6 halftime lead and coasted for a 47-12 win over Cannon-Watts. Despite the loss to the Sigs, Emanon II remained in third place at 2-2, while C-W and the Nus share last with 2-3 records. On Tuesday, they fought to a 25-25 deadlock, as Tom Jenkins of the Nus and Tim Rogers of C-W each had a pair of scores. In League B, meanwhile, the SAE’s remained unbeaten by routing the Indies 39-13, and lead Division I with a 3-0 mark. The KA’s are in second at 3-1 after walloping Cannon II 53-14, as Steve Williams scored twice. The KA’s led 20-0 at halftime, in handing C II its fifth straight loss. The Indies bounced back from the loss to the E’s with a 47-0 drubbing of Cannon II and hold third with a 3-2 mark. In Division II, Sentelle I (3-1) holds a half-game margin over Emanon I (2-1). Sentelle I whipped Watts II 32-19 last Thursday to keep ahead, as Emanon belted the SPE’s 39-15 in their only action of the week. Pat Curley sparked the winners with three TD's, while Ralph Hess accounted for both of the losers’ scores. Improving PAX upped its mark to 2-3 by trouncing Watts II 39-13. Rob Krebs, Sefton Stevens, and Reggie Kennedy each chalked up two touchdowns for the victors, while Dwight Plemmons scored twice for the freshmen, now 1-3. The SPEs’ loss to Emanon I was their fourth straight, and dropped them into the cellar. Tuesday's games were rained out. Wednesday's slate included S I—SPE, Nu—Sigs, S II—SAE, and C I—Delt. Thursday’s games were Emanon I—C-W, Indies—S II, Emanon II—Nus, Tau—C I. Tau Mitchell Johnson prepares to throw over league-leading Delts defense. DEFYING THE DELTS (Staff photo by Erwin) Winless Cats Face Bisons By BILL MORRIS Sports Writer The Davidson Wildcats take an 0 and 4 record into Lewisburg, Pennsylvania Saturday to play a Bucknell Bison team that has won its last two games. “This could prove to be one of our toughest games to date. Their personnel, at certain spots, is as good, if not better, than we have seen. You have to be impressed with a team that scores 32 points against a good Citadel team and should have won the game.” Coach Dave Fagg said. The Bucknell offense is primarily a slot T offense, revolving around a good quarterback and two fine runners. “Harold Burke, the quarterback, runs an offense that is about as good as we will face all season. He is a good passer, using mainly short tosses, who has a knack for making things happen. He completed 22 of 37 passes in The Citadel game.” Fagg said. “Their two backs are as good as we'll see. Rick Diez, 6-2, 213, and Mitch Farbstein, 5-11, 215, are two good-sized, talented running backs.” he added. Burke has completed almost 60 per cent of his passes to date. His favorite target has been his big tight end, Carl Probst, 6-2, 215, who has caught 14 passes for an average gain of 15 yards, and has scored 3 touchdowns. Fullback Farbstein, coming off of a 200-yard rushing performance in his last game,is averaging almost 6 yards a carry. Halfback Diez has about a 3-yard-a-carry average. They complement a good passing game. “We'll either go with the split G, that is, six men on the line, two linebackers, and the secondary, or a split 4, with four men on the line, two linebackers over the tackles, two outside, and our secondary. Or we may go into a pro-type 4-3," Fagg said. “Bucknell will play a split 4 primarily. They're a conservative team that will give a little, but not the big play. Running will be tough, but we've got to get it going. The type of defense Bucknell plays is good to pass against and we'll try to do that. A lot of it,” he added.

Scotty Shipp will quarterback Saturday. Rick Kemmerlin suffered a pulled groin muscle in the Appalachian game and failed to finish that game. Coach Fagg was optimistic about the coming game and the rest of the season in spite of the early losses and another underdog role against Bucknell. “There are some games we could have won,” he said. “We need to beat Bucknell for three reasons. First, we're 0 and 4 and we need a win badly. Second, we've played Bucknell four times now and been beaten every time.

“We haven't been playing that badly. Our defense has been exceptional in spots, forcing five turnovers against Appalachian State. If we could just put our offense together and get everything working. We're young and inexperienced on offense, and our mistakes have kept us out of a win,” he added.

Bucknell’s coach, Fred Prender, apparently agrees. “Don't sell Davidson short. It's a fine 0 and 4 team. It's faced a really rough schedule. They have two excellent runners in Johnny Riker and Bill Bracken. This is a key game for us against a fine team. It will take a good performance, both offensively and defensively, for us to beat Davidson,” he said.

If you crooned with the early Elvis Presley (“Love Me Tender”) ... let your radio blare out “So Rare” by Jimmy Dorsey ... wore white bucks, pink shirts, peg pants, or bobby socks ... bought all the Platters records; later, the Lettermen, Association, and Vogues ... and today Chicago, Blood, Sweat, & Tears ... and still Elvis ... then you understand why WBT Radio's “Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame” is such a hit. Nostalgia is invading fashion, art, and literature, and WBT now invades the world of music, as far back as 1950. Mike Ivers, Music Director of WBT, hosts the five-hour show ... and he does far more than spin discs. Between each song, he tells about the artists and relates other interesting tidbits concerning style, era, etc. Mike receives an avalanche of mail from up and down the eastern seaboard, filled with requests for “Special Favorites.” You might say that WBT Radio has become a thing of the past... at least for five hours a week. The “Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame”... from 7 till Midnight on WBT.

Davidson Rugby Club Opens With Loss To Gamecocks
By ERIC VERNON
Sports Writer

The Davidson Rugby Club opened its fall season with a defeat at the hands of the University of South Carolina by 19-0. The club is optimistic, however, about their chances in the upcoming matches with such schools as Clemson, Hampden-Sydney, and U.N.C. at Chapel Hill. The squad will have approximately five more games, most of which will be away. Organizer Zack Mobley has about twenty-five players out for the team, fifteen of which can play at a time. Zack Mobley, John Devine, Ed Dietrick, Randy Webster, Ron Page, Steve Philips, and Tad Porter are the nucleus of the team and are all upperclassmen. Exceptional showings by freshmen Henry Barbera and Ken Ejler make up a potentially good team, Mobley said. Practice is held only twice a week, mainly because of the unstructured nature of the club and because they are playing for fun. The schedule for fall as well as spring is very tentative, but about five games are anticipated in the spring. The next match is to be held this weekend at U.N.C.