ALSO PANCAKE ORGY K, New York Rock Ensemble Heads

Exhibiting their unique artistry, the New York Rock Ensemble is scheduled to headline the entertainment for the 1971 Midwinters weekend, February 12-14. Formerly called the New York Rock and Roll Ensemble, the group will appear Friday from 8 to 10 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Each member of the group graduated from the Juilliard School of Music in New York City, and they appeared at Davidson in the spring of 1969.

Goose Creek Symphony, a highly acclaimed country rock band, will highlight the Saturday evening fare. The Phoenix-based group will be seen starting at 8 p.m.

Seeking to start a tradition which will endure through the years as a symbol of Davidson life, the Social Council announced plans for the First Annual Davidson College Pancake Eating Contest, to be held Saturday of Midwinters. The contest, scheduled for 11 a.m., will pit representatives from fraternities, the faculty, administration, freshmen, and independents in a match to determine who can eat the most pancakes in an hour. The winner will receive a giant trophy and ten dollars, according to Social Council President Weldon Schenck.

Each fraternity is to choose one representative in the contest, said Schenck, and there will be one entrant accepted from each of the sophomore, junior, and senior classes among the independents. In addition, there will be one entrant from each freshman hall, one from the faculty, and one from the administration. Along with each entrant, each team is required to provide one counter to assist in the officiating. “We also advise teams to have one trainer/coach to carry buckets and towels,” commented Schenck.

“Pancakes, syrup, butter, and water will be provided, and the pancakes will be prepared by cafeteria manager Klaus G. Kleeberg,” Schenck said. The match will be held in Chambers basement, and “the tables will be shaped in a big U,” added Schenck. “This will allow room for the pancake runners to bring refills, and will allow good spectator view.” Any entrant who becomes sick will be automatically disqualified.

Following the performance of the New York Rock Ensemble, Alicia Bridges, a blues singer, will sing in the Union Bar. She appears regularly at the White Horse Tavern in Charlotte, and was recently featured in an article in one of the Charlotte newspapers, according to Schenck. She will perform from 11:00 until 1 a.m. During the same time period, the movie “Charly,” for which Cliff Robertson received an Academy Award, will be shown in the Morrison Room, starting at 10. From 1 a.m. on, Mara Loves will provide the Morrison Room entertainment.

A folk singer from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Debby Thompson, will perform in the Bar after the Goose Creek concert Saturday, and “Charly” and Mara Loves will again be seen on Saturday. The planned activities are to conclude with a breakfast in the Union from 3 until 4, according to Schenck.

Peeples

By DOUG BROWN
Staff Writer

Davidson's “Service Information Center” officially began operating Tuesday, January 26. It will attempt to educate the community about the Selective Service System. Greg Scott, President of the YMCA, and College Chaplain Scott Woodmansee were instrumental in formulating plans for this center.

Beginning in October, concrete plans were made about forming a draft counseling service, and Ralph Peeples was named to head it. The “Service Information Center” is under the auspices of the YMCA, and it should cost less than $50.00 to operate the first year. The only major expenditures will be for draft literature.

Peeples has set a number of goals which he hopes to see realized. He wants to educate individuals about military service, explain to them how to get a conscientious objector status if one is desired, explain the types of deferments, and explain the obligations and opportunities of military service. Colonel Foster of the ROTC Department has offered his assistance in explaining the possibilities for military service.— stressed that this service was non-political in nature, and that

OPEN 9-8 The Hub MONDAY - SATURDAY

The Davidsanian January 29, 1971 Page Three, Midwinters

THE NEW YORK ROCK ENSEMBLE The Group Will Perform In Love Auditorium For Midwinters

“We want to make it easier for guys to make a proper evaluation of the Selective Service System and to let them know all the options which are open to them,” said Peeples. Specific questions about the draft law and its procedures will be answered. If the answers to these problems cannot be found at Davidson, ‘The Service Information Center’ will be able to find out from other sources.

Currently, Peeples is the only person actively involved in draft counseling, but he hopes to see the number increase. “Where we go from here will depend on the interest shown by the people here on campus,” commented Peeples. There is now a training session in progress for those who desire to become involved in draft counseling, and eight people are in it. In late February, a group from the American Friends will visit campus and offer advice about the Selective Service System. A mock draft board can be set up for those who would like to gain experience before facing their draft boards. Also, some sample questions asked by local draft boards of conscientious objectors are available. Also, some faculty members have offered to help in this area.

According to Peeples, there has been a general feeling of cooperation by all parties. However, this service has not been publicized previously, and Peeples felt that some publicity might be useful. In the future, Peeples wants to see this draft counseling service spread to the community and not serve only Davidson College. “The students are fairly well protected. It is very important to help the poor, uneducated guy to make the right decision. We are available to tell which service is best, and we should be able to help him if he desires to put off serving for a while,” said Peeples. He noted that a problem of communication presently exists.

“We are not a draft evasion or resistance service. This is not encouraged, but we do have addresses of such agencies if they are desired,” commented Peeples. Peeples stressed that this was against the law, and he did not want to get involved with that issue. Peeples wants to get all types of individuals involved in the program, and he especially pointed out those enrolled in ROTC. This is in keeping with the goal of serving as a source for all types of information. Draft literature is available in the YMCA office, and those seeking personal guidance can get in touch with Ralph Peeples in Belk 258. There will be a file located outside of the YMCA office where written questions can be placed. “This is a part-time thing to us, but we are serious about it,” said Peeples. There is no charge for this service.

Spaghetti — La Roma Ristoranti — PIZZA WEST of ITALY — Salads — CHOICE STEAK

La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS: Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer — North Carolina’s nationally recognized Coastal Boys’ and Girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. 24th year. Camps feature sailing and seamanship plus all usual camping activities. Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who are LOOKING FOR MORE than “just another summer job.” Openings for NURSES (RN). June 9 - August 20. We seek highly qualified (ability to instruct in one phase of camp’s program), return good salaries, board and lodging, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer — P.O. Box 10976 — Raleigh, North Carolina, 27605.