Page Right
December 17, 1971

The Davidsonian

President’s Statement

The fact that the present Union is substandard and inadequate is apparent to us all. That is the reason we
are willing to sacrifice it now for something better in the future. Obviously, we cannot have a permanent new Union
before next fall. To make an intelligent decision on a temporary location for the immediate future, we must have before
us all the facts about all the practical alternatives. The Union Board is now working on a report which will
present these facts. When the report is in, which should be in the very near future, it will be published
so that any and all who want to comment on it may do so.

As to the long-range future, we must and will have a Union Building far superior to the present one. An
identifiable physical location for the Union is a key factor, especially on a campus like ours. A new Union could
be created by constructing an entirely new building or by remodeling an existing one. Space, cost, and functional factors should
be compared before a final decision is made. I am asking the Budget and Grounds Committee, working with the Buildings
and Grounds Committee of the Trustees, to begin work on this as early as possible after Christmas.

RHC Reallocates Money
By THOM NICHOLL

Completely reversing its policy adopted only in the previous meeting, the RHC met Tuesday and voted 7-0-1 to re-allocate to
each freshman dorm $150 for social expenses as originally provided in the RHA budget. About 25 freshmen attended the meeting
to protest the RHC’s policy decision not to provide funds for social functions of any particular dorm, but only for
parties open to the entire campus. The incident was touched off by a group from Watts Dorm who planned a
party and requested RHA money to fund the event. Bill Alexander, the RHC president, assumed that the

Dean Disposes Of First Case
By BOB HOWELL
Staff Writer

The new Governance Regulations, enacted this year, met with their first test this past week with the disposition of a
case involving the violation of a fireworks regulation, according to Will Terry, dean of students. Terry said that he was
working in his office Tuesday night, December 7, when he was disturbed by the sound of exploding firecrackers. He said
he walked outside and observed the ensuing “war” between Cannon and Watts Dormitories. By noting which window the fireworks were
coming from, it was easily determined which room the students were in, so Terry went up to the fourth floor
of Watts and apprehended the four students who seemed to be involved in the caper. At the subsequent administrative conference,
it was brought out that two of the boys had been merely onlookers, and they were given warnings as to
the college's policy on fireworks. The other two continued in the conference with the Dean. While Terry refused to release
any names, the residents of Watts Hall were not quite as hesitant, and one of the four was located. “I
think it was handled pretty well,” he said. “He (Terry) gave us the choice of whether we wanted him to
handle it

Applications Down Twenty Per Cent
By MICHAEL TANNER
Staff Writer

Davidson, like many small private colleges across the country, is being faced with the unpleasant prospect of a dwindling market
for future students. This was evident last year when the Admissions staff suddenly realized that the number of applications for
this year’s freshman class was down 20 per cent from the previous year. And unfortunately, the decline shows signs of
repeating itself, as applications are currently below last year’s level. Norman R. Broadbent, Assistant Director of Admissions, felt that one
of the principal reasons for students choosing large universities, particularly state universities, over a school such as Davidson, is financial.
He explained that as money becomes tighter, students will be forced to compromise the advantages of a small school. Broadbent
also added that large universities, in recent years, have modified their curriculums to the point where they can now offer
the liberal arts education, whereas before, the small college like Davidson was king in this area. The Admissions people are
coming to rely more and more upon the present student body, which is thought to be a primary source of
recruitment energy, to arouse interest in the home community. The Thanksgiving “Gift Pac” operation was one of the first examples
of the new drive this year and will be followed by a similar pitch at Christmas time. The Admissions Office
is also attempting to reach more prospective students through high school guidance offices in parts of the country (most especially
the metropolitan areas) previously uncultivated by Davidson. Among these are Cincinnati, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Chicago, Washington, D.C., and Wilmington, Delaware.or have
it brought before the Student Hearing Committee, and we choose him.” The students both admitted to the charges and were
fined $15 each, to be paid to the Business Office by Friday the 17th. They also refused the option to
appeal the case, another provision of the Governance Regulations.

N.C. Fellows Selects 15
By DAVID ARANT
Staff Writer

Fifteen Davidson freshmen received notice Dec. 6 of their acceptance into the N.C. Fellows Program, after a weekend of final
selection. Thirty semi-finalists participated in the final selection here on campus, Dec. 3-5. The Fellows had planned to have the
selection at Montreat, N.C., but were snowbound on campus. In spite of the snow, John D. Kelton, advisor of the
program, felt that the weekend was successful. “I feel that it went fairly well, considering,” Kelton said, “We had to
start a little bit late and, as a result, the interviews were not as intensive as we had planned."

After all the activities had been completed, Kelton chose the final 15 students on the basis of the ratings he
received from the interviews and the small group exercises in which each individual participated. The following 15 students were selected
as N.C. Fellows: Lloyd A. Bell III, Blain Butner, Steve D. Canterbury, Rowan D. Crews, Jr., Richard B. Damewood, Reginald
M. Harding, Thomas A. Longford III, Michael E. Mahla, Paul R. Mitchell, Thomas E. Nicoll, Vincent Rabil, George William H.
Smith, H. Ricks, Roger W. Saylor, and John R. White.

Why you are born and why you are living depend entirely on what you get and what you give it.
Oscar Hammerstein

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what “low net cost” really means.
Hal Mapes
Jim Roy
892-1467
892-1424
ROBERT T. STONE
District Agent

money would be available and told the freshmen to proceed with their plans. However, instead of providing the funds, the
RHC changed its policy, declaring that RHA money would not be used to finance restricted parties. The fickleness of the
RHC may be partially explained by the confused calendars on which it conducts its business. The president is elected in
January, the budget planned in the spring, and new members selected in the fall. Thus, last year’s RHC, under Alexander,
appropriated the freshman funds. That budget was approved by the Campus Tax Committee. However, the newly-elected RHC, who must approve
all expenditures, disagreed with the allocations, and changed the subdivisions and terms of the RHA budget.

Concerning the validity of the change, Alexander stated, “I do not think that the Tax Committee needs to reapprove the
budget. The RHC has the right to change the sub-divisions within its budget. But before the meeting, Alexander said, “I
think that freshmen do not feel part of the campus. Their social life is lacking because the social system is
not working. The RHC should use its funds to stimulate dorm social life, especially next year with the loss of
the union.”

Alexander stated that the RHC’s opposition to last year’s budget was two-fold. “The members felt that everyone should pay his
own social expenses, except for the regular social board, and that such a plan would be an affront to the
new social system by encouraging freshmen to stay within their dorms.”

Freshman David Foerster protested the loss of the funds, “We are in our formative years and we are getting really
shafted. We are not receiving a complete education. Many freshmen are leaving because they have no social vent.”

After hearing the arguments and pleas of the freshmen and some of their counselors, the RHC was swayed to change
its position. Grange Roller presented the motion to re-allocate the freshman funds, stating, “The amount of money may be trivial,
but at least it will be a token of our interest and concern. Clearly, something has to be done.”

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

out of this world

Blood, Sweat, & Tears

thing of the night on

If you crooned with the early Elvis Presley (“Love Me Tender”) ... let your radio blare out “So Rare” by
Jimmy Dorsey ... wore white bucks, pink shirts, peg pants, or bobby socks ... bought all the Platters records; later,
the Lettermen, Association, and Vogues ... and still understand why WBT Radio's “Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame” is such
a hit. Nostalgia is invading fashion, art, and literature, and WBT now invades the world of music, as far back
as 1950. Mike Ivers, Music Director of WBT, hosts the five-hour show ... and he does far more than spin
discs. Between each song he tells about the artists and relates other interesting tidbits concerning style, era, etc. Mike receives
an avalanche of mail from up and down the eastern seaboard, filled with requests for “Special Favorites”. You might say
that WBT Radio has become a past... at least for five hours a week. The “Original Sunday Night Hall of
Fame”... from 7 til Midnight.
