‘INDEFENSIBLE. The ero a a So 1971 Page, cee:’ < SQA ey THE DAVIDSONIAN has come off the annual judging circuit with ‘the biggest award the paper has ever received,’ according to former editor Ed Shoaf. The newspaper has won first place in two major college newspaper competitions and has scored impressively in the Associated Collegiate Press’ (ACP) evaluation, winning an All-American citation.

The papers which were submitted for judging by the ACP were for the fall and early winter term under editor Sandy McNair. The ACP judge of the paper called the news coverage ‘excellent, complete and concise,’ noting readers get a good view of life at Davidson. Also singled out for praise were the editorials for their ‘good strong stands on vital, provocative subjects,’ and the paper’s ‘professional style.’

In the Hollins College competition which involves schools throughout the Southeastern United States, THE DAVIDSONIAN was singled out as the best college newspaper. Placing second was the Wake Forest ‘Old Gold and Black.’

Those two papers also dominated the Charlotte Observer contest for college papers in North and South Carolina, with THE DAVIDSONIAN taking first place for the fourth time in five years in the small college division and the Wake Forest paper taking the large college trophy for the second year in a row.

Also singled out in the Charlotte Observer contest was Windy March who won the first prize in the news contest for an article on the controversy over student medical records.

A jury decided, Calley ought to be required to serve. I don't think he should be made to stay in prison, though,’ said Capt. Theodore R. Severn. ‘I think Calley got a raw deal; he shouldn't have come to trial,’ he said. ‘In many ways his trial was an attempt to pacify the critics of the military.’

‘But there wouldn't be any reason to ban the film without consulting the Union Board,’ he said. The Executive Committee found objectionable, him to trial?” Jaap felt thatUnder no pressure, but at the invitation of the Senate in its weekly meeting Monday night, the Union Executive Board President Lester Strong appeared to explain the Union Executive Board’s action in banning the film “Groove Tube” last week. Senior senator Mark Meza asked about the cause, and Strong replied that “By his own admission,” Sgt. Major Jerome D. Pearce, however, “Lt. Calley is guilty of deliberately killing people who were in no way involved.”

Strong explained, “Firstly, there were closeups of genitalia being manually stimulated.” Meza then asked about the 500 dollars that was paid for the film. Strong responded, “We didn’t lose the money. We weren’t supposed to pay unless we showed the flick.”

The Union Executive Board felt that it “had the right to ban the film because it did not measure up to our standards of entertainment,” Strong continued. Meza then pressed Strong for information on what the Executive Board thought about the controversy. Strong admitted that the reaction to the wave of controversy arose because of the indefinite structure of the Union Board and its duties.

SGA President Danny Gately commented, “We felt that it was necessary to look for an alternative solution.” He added that the Union Board pulled out all stops in the faculty plan, increasing overhead costs, and causing concern.

Another proposal objected to was the Dean of Students Will H. Terry’s response to the abortion issue on campus. A final motion to censure Terry for his response was tabled. Morey said that Terry had used the weight of his office to influence the decision, though he did not specify how his position affected the outcome.

In a letter to Clodfelter, freshman Marty Soards resigned as Dormitory representative on the Senate because he did not have enough time, never knew when the Senate meetings were, and because “the SGA is unrepresentative.”

Commenting on the Davidson Peace Coalition, recently organized for the spring offensive in Washington, Morey added, “I’m sure those people enjoy the work they do, but we don’t want to restrict ourselves to questions of war and peace.”

The Young Republicans have a present membership of 43, but at the last meeting, less than half of them attended. Following their last meeting, Kes Woodward, president of the group, resigned from the position because of the actions taken by the club. Woodward pointed out later that because a quorum was not present, the proposal by the Young Republicans concerning Spencer's resignation is invalid.

The Davidson College Drama Workshop will present two one-act plays by playwright Slawomir Mrozek. “Charlie” is directed by George Draughon and will be presented by Bill Rowland, Jeff Loughridge, and Gil Terriberry. “Out at Sea” is directed by Peter Lutken and the cast includes Bill Green, Cullum Rogers, Peter Lutken, Bob Wright, and Lee Farnell. The plays, staged in the round, will be performed on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Morbane Room, College Union.