(Staff photo by Doty) MAN AND SUPERMAN: Spencer and Bevan discuss college finances.

Finance Administrator To Join Davidson Staff
By RICH WILSON: Managing Editor

In a briefing session Monday with student leaders on the financial status of Davidson, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.
announced that the college will soon hire a new development administrator to work in the area of deferred grants. "The
man will assist the college upon the death of the donor," said Spencer.

When questioned as to the financial advisability of the increased number of administrative positions, Spencer said, "The College will have
to spend money to get money. We will use short-range loans to get long-range funds. I will be very disappointed
if the new men in the development department do not earn their salaries back and a few times over in
a year or two."

Summer Session Offers Enrichment for Teachers

Courses on deviant behavior, rebellion and authority, as well as more traditional topics such as literature and geometry, will be
offered to North Carolina public school teachers in a unique program at Davidson this summer. The Liberal Arts Program for
Teachers is the only program in the state which emphasizes enrichment in the liberal arts while offering certificate renewal credit
for the teachers.

In its past four summers of operation, it has enrolled some 400 teachers from 14 different public school systems. As
in the past, the program this summer is divided into two sessions: June 14-July 3 and July 12-July 31. Participants
may take one course each session, which will meet for two 75-minute class periods five days a week. Courses are
taught by Davidson College faculty members. All tuition charges are paid by the N.C. Department of Public Instruction, but a
$10 application fee is required.

"While certificates can be renewed, our main aim is to enrich the liberal arts background of the teacher," said William
B. Hight, Jr., director of the program. "We think this will bring about better teaching in the public school classrooms
next year."

Courses in the first term will be Oral Interpretation of Literature; Black-White Relations; Rebellion and Authority; The Human Condition—A Biological
View; Nobel Prize Winners in American Literature; Current Issues in Economics; Geography of Latin America; and Geometry. The second session
will feature The Theatrical Experience; Deviant Behavior; An Introduction to the Study of Western Art; Ideas and Institutions in European
History; Negro Voices in American Literature; Contemporary Ethics; and Oral Communication.

The Davidsonian
April 16, 1971
Page Three

Foster Changing ROTC Leadership Development

Leadership in Army ROTC once meant barking "Hup, two, three, four" on the drill field. Today at Davidson College, leadership
may include organizing a Red Cross blood drive or coordinating a series of speakers on international events. The U.S. Army’s
"Modern Volunteer Army Project" that is bringing an upgrading of barracks and an end to "Mickey Mouse" regulations in the
regular Army is also said.

Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell mentioned that Pomona University began soliciting for deferred grants in 1949.
"Today they have 27 million dollars tied up in deferred gifts, and they write three million dollars in deferred contracts
a year," he said.

"If Davidson College plans to improve its academic program, more funds will be needed," Cornell said. "We need full-time employees
who will research possibilities for acquiring funds."

Spencer presented an optimistic picture of Davidson's financial condition. "This college has more endowment than most."of the other colleges in
this region. And we are extremely fortunate to be beneficiaries of the Duke Endowment.

“In a study done of 41 institutions, two-thirds of the schools are in financial difficulty or heading toward it,” he
said. “Davidson College has been in the black for the past two years,” said Spencer. “We expect to be in
the black this year, and we plan to send a balanced budget to the Board of Trustees in May.”

Spencer also said that he would react favorably to a proposal for student representatives on the Faculty Budget, Building, and
Grounds Committee. “The more who can understand about college finances, the better,” he said.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

bringing changes in the Reserve Officers Training Corps on campuses like Davidson. “We emphasize leadership projects that will be meaningful
to these men when they become commissioned officers as well as in later life,” said Col. Virgil P. Foster, commander
of the ROTC department at Davidson. “This often means being given a practical assignment which requires a high degree of
leadership and organization,” he added.

Last fall and again this spring, students in the program have organized and helped staff a successful Red Cross blood
drive on campus. Others have brought to the college a series of speakers on such topics as “The Middle East
Crisis” and “Southeast Asia After Vietnam.”

The classrooms have seen significant changes as well. There is extensive training in leadership and management for all cadets. “Our
freshmen have classes on traits and characteristics of leaders,” explained Maj. Robert W. Garner. “We are honest with them that
as officers they will have to deal with problems such as race and drugs in addition to the more traditional
army duties.

“Juniors are given conceptual problems, like how to handle disruptive influences,” Garner continued. “We use films or tapes from the
Army, or ask them how they would handle our own problems, such as helping students with financial or marriage problems.”

Seniors are taught about personnel and supply management and have a block of classes on international relations, some of which
may be taught by civilian college professors. Several seniors are also responsible for teaching underclassmen in such areas as dismounted
drill, using a rifle, field tactics, and map reading.

Television and radio stations all over the United States are carrying modern Army advertising, characterized by the soft-sell and folk
songs more than the old “join the Army and see the world” approach.

The Army has asked Davidson cadet Lester Strong to appear in an upcoming national advertisement for ROTC. Strong, a junior,
is a black basketball player active in the college YMCA and chairman of the college union board.

“The purpose of making this film about Lester is that it will show that ROTC cadets are well-rounded leaders and
hopefully will encourage minority group students to become involved in the program,” Foster said.

Davidson was ahead of the regular Army on easing regulations on hair length. Soon after Foster arrived at Davidson two
years ago, he stipulated that student cadets could wear their hair any way they liked, but must have it trimmed
if they were to represent the ROTC program in uniform. That ruling applies especially to some 15 cadets who are
visiting more than 90 high schools in the area, speaking to teenagers about the advantages of taking ROTC in college.

Every Saturday
8:30 - 2:00
HOMEMADE BAKED GOODS
of all kinds
Main St., in Sadler Bldg.
(Just down from the bank.)
Mrs. Ralph Knox
Phone orders: 892-8564
