BOBBY ALLEN

You Know You Are Virile

Remember Freshman Camp? That now departed weekend at beautiful Camp Thunderbird? For me, it was a pretty traumatic experience in
two ways. First, I learned that no matter what you had done in high school, there was always some guy
at Freshman Camp who made 300 points better than you on the SAT, was president of more clubs, played more
sports, was accepted at better schools, and had an 8x10 glossy of a better-looking chick than you did. I don’t
care if you were the greatest thing to hit your high school since hall monitors, there was always some guy
you were sure to meet at camp who was greater—and quite willing to tell you so.

The second traumatic thing about F.C. was the bull sessions with the hall counselors. The question always came up, “How
often do you date?” The hall counselor in my group was probably the guy who three years ago was the
freshman nobody was greater than. You know, ODK, new GTO, the whole business. Resting one sockless Weejun on the bottom
bunk, Mr. Joe College confessed, “Well, I have been on campus without a date a few weekends in the past
three years and three term papers due on Monday.” I hated that guy every Saturday night I sat in my
room, staring blankly at the wall.

New Nicholls Production Recreates Milton Epic

A REVIEW

With “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,” “The Graduate” and now “Catch 22” to his credit, Mike Nichols has virtually cemented
his hold on the title of Hollywood’s most successful adapter of literary works for the screen. Whatever slight reservations about
this judgment may have been entertained before, however, will be swept away on seeing Nichols’ latest masterpiece, a masterful cinematic
retelling of John Milton’s epic poem, “Paradise Lost.”

Published in 1667, “Paradise Lost” is the story of Adam, the first man, and his wife Eve, the first woman,
who were expelled from their home, The Garden of Eden, by God, the Creator of the Universe. Interwoven with their
story is that of Satan, who was banished from heaven by God and who motivates much of the action.

Nichols himself admits that the work presents problems in the adaptation. “This work presents problems in the adaptation,” he told
an interviewer in some obscure news magazine whose name I can’t recall, and I admit it. “For one thing, almost
all of the action in the book is related in dialogue, or rather monologues, by one character or another. We
wasted about four months on location filming these passages verbatim and it wasn’t until we saw the rushes back at
the studio that I realized how static a two-hour close-up of one character speaking might be.”

At this point, Nichols decided to call in his long-time associate, Buck Henry (who also plays the voice of God
in the film), and together they sought to salvage the script. “And not a moment too soon,” says Henry derisively.
“When I came in, Mike was thinking Milton got his plot from ‘Holinshed’s Chronicles.’”

Some traces of these early intentions can still be seen in “Paradise Lost” — notably the forty-five minute segment in
which Michael (played by Jack Nicholson) reveals to Adam (Richard Benjamin) the entire history of the World from the fall
to the birth of Christ — but except for this pause, the manic, frenzied pace of the action never slackens.

The casting is, with one exception, extremely good throughout. The one exception, unfortunately, is in a central role, that of
Eve. Candice Bergen’s icy sophistication, which has served her so well in previous films, is worse than wasted on this
occasion. Only David Hemming’s virtuoso performance as The Serpent saves the crucial temptation scene from lapsing over into farce. (How
did they ever get his skin that shade of green, anyway?)

Amid the general excellence of the minor roles, Dustin Hoffman’s Abdiel and Elliot Gould’s Beelzebub demand special notice, though I
feel that the script’s characterization of the two as low comedy yes-men to God and Satan respectively was overdrawn and
in the former case inappropriate. Whoever thought of Ali McGraw and Ryan O’Neal as Sin and Death deserves a medal.

Richard Benjamin seems the perfect Adam, once you get used to his freckles and a disconcerting habit of falling asleep
during scenes. And when Jack Nicholson’s Michael reveals “To Adam what shall come in future days,” we see Milton at
his best. But “Paradise Lost” stands or falls on Satan, and Donald Sutherland as the lead has given the American
screen what is probably the greatest tour de force characterization since what’s-his-name’s “Citizen Kane.” The role is not an easy
one; by turns jealous, malicious, proud, petulant.vindictive, arrogant, spiteful, and unpleasant, Satan is Milton's most complete character. Sutherland performs the
role with ease and naturalness; only a purist could quibble with his occasional tendency to improvise his lines. But final
credit for the production must go to Nicholls. From the opening frames of a solid black void being disclosed in
slow motion (a process that is repeated several times during the film, usually during reel changes) to the final shot
of a large, unattractively bound book being closed with a contented sigh, Nicholls does not remove his eyes from his
objective, not even long enough to disclose what that objective is. Nicholls has always been a trendsetter in films, and,
what with the upcoming release of such films as “Catch Genesis 2” and “X*M*A*S,” this looks to be only the
start of a new wave of cinematic attempts to “justify the ways of God to men.”

She Ravidsantar
Page Five

But that was when I had double pneumonia pages of some text. I also hated the nerd down the hall
who made a point of bringing his beautiful blind date by to meet you, knowing you would be sitting around
in your U-trou. I mean it makes you worry about yourself. How come the only blind dates you got were
the ones who laughed hysterically at nothing all night long, and whose entire vocabulary was limited to “How interesting!” How
come you're sitting around while the nerd down the hall is taking the Alabama State Baton Twirling Champion down to
his room? It's enough to make you question your virility. I know a lot of you guys are thinking, “Well,
I never question my virility.” Just wait, the time will come, I mean, it's part of the Davidson curriculum. To
facilitate thinking on those long Saturday nights, some of us here have compiled the most comprehensive virility checklist in print.
You'll probably want to clip it out and keep it in your wallet for further reference.

Drinking twelve beers without going to the john is virile.
Wearing galoshes is not virile.
Scratching in public is virile.
Wearing pajamas with feet in them is not virile.
Committing suicide by disemboweling yourself is virile.
Bowling with a speckled ball is not virile.
Having a knee injury is virile.
Using Mr. Bubble is not virile.
Fathering three consecutive multiple births is virile.
Wearing Bermuda shorts with knee socks is not virile.
Reading Gil Thorpe is virile.
Smoking Virginia Slims is not virile.
Having VD twice is virile but stupid.
Being stupid is virile.
Plucking your eyebrows is not virile.
Having nicotine stains on your fingers is virile.
Wearing sandals with socks is not virile.
Belching in public is virile.
Using your pinkie finger for anything is not virile.
Having a 5 o'clock shadow at noon is virile.
Wearing acetate wear is not virile.
Not changing your sheets is virile.
Wearing white socks is not virile unless you have athlete’s foot.
Eating your steak raw is virile.
Being without a date at Davidson on Saturday night is definitely not virile.

Alumnus Praises Student Initiative

To the Editor:

I wish to applaud the marvelous new social system at Davidson which was pushed by Ran Coble and the SGA.
It is inspiring to see young men take the initiative in deciding what kind of social life they want on
their campus. The orderly and cautious fashion in which the students proceeded to work for the idea of “eating clubs”
left little for the trustees to do except approve the final proposal. Credit must also be given to the extensive
recommendations of the Student Life Committee (SLC). Their comparative studies of similar social systems at Bob Jones University, Parsons College,
Lenoir Rhyne, and Cal Tech have proved invaluable. One particular innovation which I find particularly ingenious was the use of
a student referendum to give credence to the SGA proposals. There could be little question about the desirability of the
proposals after the students turned out en masse to ballot for “eating clubs.” After eating four years myself at Klodberg’s
Palace I would relish a chance to go groupee with random numbers like 4 or 38. What could be fairer,
and to think that the Davidson students did it all by themselves. No more of that in loco parentis crap.
Now maybe the overworked College President Sam Spencer can catch his breath. Maybe even take a trip somewhere, say Andorra.
Or maybe he can take on an extra helper to ease the workload. At least now Spencer can concentrate on
administrative problems, like the faculty, and leave the social life of the student body up to the students.

Love and kisses,
Student S. Fuller ‘70
Davidson College
