(Staff photo by Doty) TENDER TOES John Divine stretches for a base in IMAC play.

Delts, Kappa Sigs Predicted To Lead In IMAC Softball

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

With the coming of spring comes IMAC softball, and that brings the third (last) preseason prognostication by this fearless forecaster. Without further ado, here it is:

League A looks like a fight between the Sigs and the Delts, with the Taus and possibly the Machis as dark horses. The Sigs have a team which relies on strong defense and the pitching of John Harper. They have good team speed, are hitting well, and have excellent depth. Besides Harper, other veteran returnees are Jim Long, Paul Whetsell, and shortstop Clr Giles in the infield, outfielders Bob Niebauer and Bryan Peterson, and short fielder Randy Parker. Sophomores Bobby Kelly, Rollie Sumwalt, and Randy Webster round out the starters.

The Delts have back only four starters but have gotten a lot of help from sophomores and appear to have a solid club. Nick Dumich and Hugh Gaither form a veteran keystone combination, and Hamp Whittington in left and short fielder Dave Mockbee are experienced hands. Sophomore David Mast has been a pleasant surprise pitching, with Keith Onsdorff as his battery mate. Bobby Lewis and Mike Kelly round out the infield, Mike Ernst in center, and either Vic Fleming or Drew White in right complete the lineup. Woody Montgomery and Scott Snipp are probable starters when football allows. A Delt spokesman commented that “our hitting has been real surprising. Our sophomores have come through for us. Defense is our strongest point. How well our pitching comes through will determine how well we do.”

The Taus rank as the top dark horse; with a good starting lineup, strong pitching, and good defense. However, they lack depth. Jim Roy ranks as one of the top hurlers in the league. Except for catcher, the rest of the lineup is set, headed by Doug Hickman at third, the team’s top hitter, Jim Hawkins at first, Reeves Louthan at second, and Brian Tarr joining Hickman in the infield. Spencer Redding, Mort Chiles, and Chipper Jones roam the garden, while Ted Woods occupies the short field. According to a Tau spokesman, “we should do no worse than third and maybe better.”

The Machis have been the surprise of the league so far. Terribly thin in numbers, they have gotten good hitting throughout the lineup and a good defensive job, and rate an outside chance. According to Coach Jack Latimer, “If we stay healthy and get a little more consistency, we'll be around for the playoffs. We're getting better.”

WEEKEND SPORTS SCENE

Friday, April 16
- Tennis with Richmond here 2:30 p.m.
- Baseball with Furman here 1:30 p.m.

Saturday, April 17
- Track: Davidson Relays here 12:30 p.m.
- Tennis with The Citadel here 2 p.m.
- Rugby with Hampton-Sidney here 2 p.m.

Sunday, April 18
- Soccer with Celanese here 3 p.m.

The Davidsonian
April 16, 1971
Page Seven

Managers Boost Netters

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

The Wildcat tennis team has compiled a 10-4 record thus far this season, and no small part of this accomplishment can be attributed to two people who don’t even wear a uniform or swing a racket. Mike Hood, a senior from Decatur, Ga., and Jimmy Edwards, a sophomore from Forest City, are the work-study boys who are responsible for the condition of the varsity courts and surrounding area. The tools of their job are brooms, jugs of Gatorade solution, and tireless legs. Their duties consist of watering the courts at night, sweeping the playing surface between individual matches, mixing refreshments, doing the team’s laundry, policing the grounds as well as the tennis house, chasing balls, and taking care of all the little things that make a big difference.Good overall effort, good clutch hitting, and the defense seems to be working together better." Crafty Phil Dotts has impressed on the mound thus far. Steady Bob Randall catches, while Walt Walker holds down third. John Saunders has good range at short, with Rick Weddle and Kelly McKee on the right side. Versatile Herb Clegg and Jim Hudson, the team's best hitter, both veterans, team with Reif Kessler in the outfield.

The picture in League B is muddled. Due to several forfeits, it is hard to say who has what. The SPEs and Pikas figure to be the favorites, but neither has shown anything yet. The Gamms and Indies are other possible threats, but it is impossible to tell at this writing.

In games played last week, the Delis pounded the Pikas 19-4 in a surprise, then trounced Watts-Belk 12-0. The Machis hammered the KAs 17-6 as Hudson rapped 4 hits and six teammates had two each. The Sigs edged East 4-3 on John Maloney’s eighth-inning double. The Taus walloped Cannon I 15-4 as Hickman tagged a round tripper. The Indies outlasted SAEs 17-10, and Cannon I defeated Cannon II 6-4, and the Pikas belted East II 17-2.

Edwards described the work as a good deal, which he really enjoys. Despite the seemingly endless errands, he still has time to watch the matches. "I expect to be busy when the tournament comes here," he said.

With the arrival of warm weather, the netters are beginning to develop the form which was missing in early season contests. However, injuries hampered two key players as well as mentor Harry Fogleman. Fogleman noted that in last week's losses to Harvard (8-1) and Virginia (7-2), the absence of Jeff Chetwood and Hy Lankenau was a big factor. He commented that "both boys were hurt in the same way against Indiana State. They were returning hard smashes at the net and tore ligaments in their wrists."

In this week's action, the ‘Cats dropped a close match to Navy, 5-4. The Middies made sensational comebacks in two doubles matches to squeeze out the victory. Yesterday the netters met conference foe VMI, and they tangle with Richmond this afternoon. Tomorrow finds the ‘Cats hosting The Citadel, and Fogleman is expecting a close match with the Bulldogs.

Fogleman has been confined to a chair on the porch of the tennis house recently, suffering from an infected athlete's foot ailment. He stated that he is anxious to get around and "do some real coaching for a change." The warm weather, Fogleman's recovery, and continued improvement by Lankenau should have the netters primed when the conference tournament comes to town. Jimmy Edwards and Mike Hood will be there, too.

Holland Signs Second Cager

Greg Dunn, a 6'4", 210-pound wingman, has signed to play basketball at Davidson next year according to Terry Holland, head coach for the Wildcats. Dunn averaged 20 points and 11 rebounds a game for his team at Boardman High School in Youngstown, Ohio. Last year he was named all-conference, all-Northeastern Ohio, and all-Ohio in the triple-A division. He was also named first team all-state by both AP and UPI.

"Greg is an excellent scorer and rebounder," Bo Brickles, assistant coach for the ‘Cats said, "but the most impressive part of his game is his ability to hit the open man. He is an unselfish team player." Dunn racked up 143 assists last year.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY

Buy Your Toys At The Village Store