Page Six October 29, 1971

DELT REIGN ENDS
Sigs Topple Delts For IMAC Title
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

The Delts lost their third game in the last five years last Monday, and it was a big one. The
Sigs ended the Delts' quest for their sixth title in as many seasons with an exciting 26-20 triumph.

Wet and muddy playing conditions had the field looking like the Dismal Swamp, and the adverse weather had a noticeable
effect on the play of both squads. Lanky Frank Clark tallied twice for the victors, once on a pass from
Bobby Kelly who had fielded a punt. John Johnston and Grey Smith added the other Sig scores.

The Sigs relied heavily on their strong defense, which had carried them most of the season. Kelly, Randy Webster, and
Cooper Geraty were standouts as they kept pressure on Delt tailback Bick Halligan all afternoon. Drew White, David Mast, and
leaping Jim Brown were the touchdown makers for the Delts, who had much success with short passes and flicks.

The game was a nip and tuck affair, with each side threatening throughout the afternoon. The Delts, for example, had
one touchdown called back because of an offside penalty and had another drive end on the Sig one-yard line.

The loss of Mitch Purvis with a tendon injury crippled the Delt attack for much of the game. Leading the
Delt defense were end Greg McCall, lineman David Mast, and backs Hugh Gaither and Jim Wright.

By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The Davidson soccer team rolled on toward their once-beaten season and a strong bid for their second consecutive Southern Conference
title with a win over St. Andrews Tuesday.

AND THE NEW WINNER IS... Sig tailback Bill Barnhill evades the Delt defenders.

Booters Roll Over St. Andrews

The booters defeated St. Andrews 3-0 in a game that marked their gradual return to full strength after losing several
key players to injuries. This was the first defeat of the St. Andrews team since 1965. Over the last six
years, Davidson has either lost or

Kittens Defeat Deacs 14-13
By SCOTT McMICHAEL
Staff Writer

Coach Stevens was pleased, student-coach Jeff Lynn was pleased, forty-odd freshman football players were pleased. Everyone was pleased except for
a handful of Wake Forest fans clutching umbrellas as the Davidson Wildkittens defeated the Baby Deacs, 14-13, last Monday in
the rain on Richardson Field.

Two interceptions thrown by Davidson in the first quarter stirred cries of “Here we go again,” from the sparse home
team crowd. However, the 'Kittens buckled down to solid football after that and sent the Baby Deacs back to Winston-Salem
with another loss. The victory set the freshman record at 2-2. Whether or not the Wildkittens have a winning season
will be settled on Nov. 5 when they meet The Citadel.

A first-quarter score by Wake was neutralized in the second by a Davidson touchdown. Bruce Baker, subbing for regular frosh
quarterback David Harper, passed the team to the three-yard line and then sent Feney Mullins in for the score. End
Gary Pomeroy caught three passes in the 60-yard drive but it was Lin Potts who set up the plunge by
Mullins with a 25-yard catch on a third down and long yardage situation.

The Davidson defense held off the Baby Deacs and the score remained 7-7 until late in the third period when
the Wake Forest quarterback pushed over from the one-yard line. A bad snap foiled the extra point attempt.

Even though all three freshman quarterbacks saw action in the game (each throwing an interception), it was Baker again who
carried the team to its second score. His 12-yard pass to Pomeroy in the fourth tied the game. The conversion
attempt made it 14-13. Interceptions by George Wiecker and Tom Fleisher in the last minutes of the gameprevented the Wake
team from mounting a threat to Davidson's lead. Student defensive coach, Jeff Lynn, praised the team effort and excellent hitting
of the ’Kitten defense, which forced four turnovers. He was quick to point out, however, that their play marked no
significant change.

WHEN IN DOUBT

Lynn maintained that the defense has usually played well and had been responsible for keeping the ‘Kittens in several previous
games. The slippery condition of the field caused the Davidson team to go to the air, where they found reasonable
success. Alert receivers often made the quarterbacks look good. Jim Schoonover made an exceptionally good diving catch, pulling the ball
out of the mud on one play. The ’Kittens’ performance was especially good in light of the fact that the
Wake Forest team averaged about 20 pounds heavier on both lines.

Freshman gridder Gordo Watson punts to Wake Forest.

tied, including a 1-1 tie last year. Seraphin Gbari saw his first action in several weeks against St. Andrews, and
returned in good form, scoring one of the ‘Cats’ three goals. Gbari had been sidelined due to a leg injury
in the Furman match two weeks ago. ‘‘We played Gbari sparingly,” said soccer coach Harry Fogleman, ‘‘because of his leg.
He played about one half of the game, and after a three-week layoff, he has gotten out of shape.” Dick
Spinner scored the other two Wildcat goals. Spinner is the leading scorer for the booters, and Tuesday’s action raised his
total to 11 goals thus far for the team. The first goal of the game, according to Fogleman, was actually
scored by a St. Andrews defender. While trying to kick the ball out of the goal area, he accidentally put
it straight into the corner of the goal, scoring for the Wildcats. Spinner got credit for the point, being the
last attacker to touch the ball.

The other injured booters were checked by the doctors and trainers yesterday. Johnny Robison is expected to return to play
tomorrow, but goalie Charlie Heiner may be out for another week. Tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. the Wildcats tackle the booters
from East Carolina. The ECU team presently leads the north half of the conference, and will likely be the team
Davidson will face in the conference finals. ‘‘ECU has a strong team,” Fogleman said, ‘‘and we expect quite a contest.
Soccer is a big-time sport to them.” The East Carolina team tied NC State, a team that defeated UNC, 2-0,
a team that is usually a national power though remains unranked this year. ECU edged out St. Andrews 1-0 several
weeks ago, but several of the St. Andrews’ players predicted a Davidson victory. St. Andrews dominated the offense in their
match with ECU, but were unable to connect for a score. After playing ECU, the Davidson booters will host NC
State. The State game will be at 3 p.m. next Tuesday.

Injuries Slow Cats As Season Closes

A plethora of injuries have reduced Davidson's chances of a high finish in the Southern Conference cross-country championships to nearly
zero. Those same injuries were a major problem in last Tuesday's meet here at Davidson, when the ’Cats took on
Appalachian State, Furman, Pembroke, High Point, and Wake Forest. Davidson finished last in the six-team contest, mainly due to physical
problems. “We had a good chance of beating High Point and Wake Forest Tuesday, but Joe Shibley had a pulled
groin muscle, Paul Mitchell had a knee problem, and Howard Boyd was hurting from the leg problem he has had
all year,” said Martin. These three runners are normally the second, third, and fifth finishers for the Wildcats.

Familiarity breeds contempt — and children.
Mark Twain

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what "low net cost" really means.
-Hal Mapes
Jim Roy
892-1467
892-1424

ROBERT T. STONE
District Agent
