"Now Fred, This Is What I Call Respect!"

LETTER

HOWARD RAMAGLI
December 3, 1971
Page Five

Pressures Stifle Joy Of Learning

Returning to Davidson after a vacation always brings to mind the same question: Are we really beginning a new term here or are we merely continuing an exercise in futility? Futility or hopelessness or uselessness. These all seem to be strange words to apply to an educational community. Education should contain the elements of joy and excitement. How many students were really anxious for the term to start? I doubt the number would be more than a few.

Academic pressure causes changes in how one deals with the world. People become unhappy and tend to try and hide from anything that would bring a little relaxation. "It must get done" is the only thing that matters. Relationships with friends become strained. Most everyone is anxious to get away, and very few are anxious to return.

If Davidson is supposedly an educational community, then the word community must add some extra meaning, something more than just the pursuit of academic matters. It must mean a closeness of the individuals in that community and a sharing of one’s self with others. It must be a closeness brought about by an understanding and a respect for the humanness in all of us. The problem is that people do not care about each other. All they care about is grades or their papers or their tests or some other sterile academic exercise. The difference between an academic exercise and an educational exercise is that the latter involves a sharing with other individuals. Sharing involves much more.

Thornton Rebuts Patterson’s Historicity

To The Editor:

So interesting is a letter from Prof. E. F. Patterson to the Charlotte Observer, published Nov. 11th, and entitled “CHECK TAIWAN'S PAST” that I am submitting a copy of it, in case the Davidsonian would care to air two differing viewpoints about Formosa. If lack of space prevents this, I will send a Xerox copy to anyone requesting it.

By checking the World Book Encyclopedia which is brief and to the point, and also the Encyclopedia Britannica 1957 edition, I find a notable number of errors in Dr. Patterson’s historic run-down. He states “but in 1947 they rebelled against the pillage, rape and murder of the inhabitants by the Nationalist troops.” There is no reference to this. Dr. Patterson's reference is the New York Times, of March 27th, 1947. Such evidence is not creditable. The New York Times went out of its way to brainwash the American public to the effect that Castro was an “agrarian reformer” and the George Washington of Cuba. Either the New York Times was totally corrupt in helping Castro to power, or it was incredibly stupid. It certainly has no status in the field of historical evidence.

Formosa (called Taiwan by the Japanese while they “owned” it) was mostly occupied by its aborigines who were not Chinese. In the 16th century Portuguese and Spaniards attempted colonization. In 1624 the Dutch built a fort and stayed around 37 years. When the Manchus prevailed over the Ming dynasty, Ming adherents under Formosa’s national hero Koxinga ruled Formosa as an INDEPENDENT nation (not a province of China). The grandson of Koxinga ceded the island to the Manchus. The people had no choice. It was ceded in 1895 to Japan by the treaty of Shimonoseki. The resident Chinese objected AND DECLARED A REPUBLIC but the Japanese took possession by force. The Japanese, after the Cairo conference in 1943, surrendered it to the NATIONALIST CHINESE.

In Sept. 1923 Mikhail M. Grusenberg, alias Michael Borodin, a Russian communist, arrived in Canton and from that date began the discord and erosion of the Nationalist movement. Russian Communists played upon every event, attimes joining the Kuomintang Nationalist movement, even fighting with it against Japan, but always with the view of taking over for communism. This Russian conspiracy kept Chiang from unifying the country, and in time, as is usually the result of any coalition with communism, the Nationalists, fighting warlords, Japanese, and the communist party, lost and withdrew to Formosa. Nobody has a valid claim to Formosa. Most thinking people will agree that if the population of Formosa could choose its leader and its form of government, it would not choose the kind of masters and the form of bloody slavery that is communism. No populace knowingly votes to live behind Berlin Walls, Iron Curtains, and Bamboo Curtains. Man's lust for power is such that no one can say what is in store for Formosa. Let us hope it is not the fate of Tibet and Cuba.

E. P. Thornton
Murrells Inlet, S. C.

To The Editor:

In the interest of truth, I must set the record straight as to the only error to be found in Cecil Burney’s article about the abortion of THE DAVIDSON REPUBLICANS (‘Morey And Crew Execute Blistering Republican Coup,” THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 5, 1971). The error is that Bill Eskridge, a junior, was grouped with “Morey’s arch-conservative cohorts.” Bill was, in fact, a key member of our group which worked to form an open, representative, and broadly-based Republican organization on the Davidson College campus, and was in no way associated with the Morey group. I would like to publicly thank Mr. Burney for his analytical as well as accurate reporting of the meeting (except for that error) for the truth is always welcomed.

George A. Kaneklides '73
Davidson College

than just an exchange of information. It involves an exchange of feelings, of experiences. My greatest learning experiences have occurred when I have to put my feelings and my beliefs out in the open for others to examine and to question. The examination and questioning went beyond the realm of academics. It came to a point of questioning who I really was as opposed to who I professed to be. Very few of these learning experiences have occurred at Davidson. Davidson has an academic environment. This is not in question. What is in question is the validity of Davidson as an educational community. As an educational community, Davidson is severely lacking. The sterility of this educational community is echoed in its emphasis on reading great volumes of material, and then providing little or no outlet for experience to supplement this reading. The sterility is echoed in the student fear of writing papers. Papers should be means of expression and exploration of one’s views and feelings on a particular subject. Papers are a drudgery and cause great anxiety for most students. The sterility is echoed in the lack of interest in the arts at Davidson. Artistic expression involves the exposition of part of one’s self to the world. Few desire the chance for this expression and few are interested in experiencing this expression. Artistic expression is a form of sharing. Too few people on this campus wish to share their humanness with others. Perhaps it is not that hopeless. There are people on this campus interested in Davidson as an educational community. They go about sharing with others in a very quiet manner. These are the people who can help Davidson be more than just another small college in the South. Still, I could not help but feel the futility of it all as I walked across an empty, wind-blown campus on the Sunday beginning Thanksgiving break. I realized that I actually enjoyed Davidson more when no one was on campus and school was not in session, and it seemed a little ludicrous to feel that way.