Counsellor Or Disciplinarian? AN ANALYSIS By RICH WILSON Managing Editor

While many students and faculty members seem to accept the idea of a Council on Student Conduct and the revised
court structure proposed by the Trustee Governance Committee, a major controversy seems to be developing over the function of the
Dean of Students.

Under the suggested system, the Dean of Students would be the focal point for all violations that occur on campus,
both administrative as well as violations of the Code of Responsibility. The violation of administrative regulations, which include parking violations
or defacement of school property, will be handled by levying fines. However, in the case of violations of the code,
all judicial proceedings will begin with notification of the Dean of Students.

“At that point the Dean of Students would list the possible sanctions,” says Walter L. Lingle, chairman of the governance
committee. “The student would then have the option of allowing the Dean of Students to handle the case or take
the case to the hearing committee (an all-student court).”

When Dean of Students Will H. Terry assumed office in January, he said he would “play down” his function of
a disciplinarian and emphasize his role as a counsellor. However, the recent suggestions of the Trustee Governance Committee call for
the Dean of Students to be the focal point of all disciplinary action.

Can the Dean of Students play the role of a disciplinarian and a counsellor at the same time? This seems
to be the center of the controversy.

In the opening meeting on campus governance yesterday, Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan maintained that the Dean
of Students could fulfill both roles. “What we are trying to do,” he said, “is give discretionary powers to one
individual. The Dean of Students must exercise his judgment on each case that comes before him.

“There is a conflict of roles in every job,” he said. “The Dean of the Faculty at times must strengthen
the faculty, and at other times he has the responsibility to fire a member of the faculty.

“If the student is afraid of the Dean of Students he can always take his case to the hearing committee.
However, I think we should give some students the opportunity to deal with one man rather than a group.”

Bevan seemed to be the only one at the meeting who held this position. Terry, sitting beside Bevan, said he
realized what the governance committee was trying to accomplish; however, he said he was afraid the students would not trust
a man as a counsellor when they know he is also the disciplinarian.

SGA President Danny Clodfelter added that he would like to see the encouragement of the counselling function of the Dean
of Students and the discouragement of the role of the disciplinarian. “But I wonder,” he said, “whether a man in
the position of the dean can make this separation. Furthermore, we may tailor this system to Will but what about
his successor? Will he be able to make the separation?”

Steven Salyer, class of '72, questioned why both the role of the disciplinarian and the role of a counselor must
be combined in one individual. “Why not divide the roles with somebody else or with another committee?” he said. “I
thought we were trying to progress beyond the stage where the dean acted as the disciplinarian.”

Student suspicion of the dual function of the Dean was reflected as the meeting broke up and one student said,
“Boy, this is just what I need, I go into the Dean of Students office to be counselled and he
kicks me out of school!”

Vol LX, No. Twenty-Four Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 APRIL 30, 1971

Governor To Speak Here

North Carolina Governor Robert W. Scott will deliver the main address at Davidson's first annual Spring Awards Convocation Monday.

Stacks Foresees Laundry Option By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor

A coin-operated laundry may become a reality at Davidson in the next few years, possibly by 1973, according to Manager
of the College Laundry Clyde W. Stacks.

“I have recommended a coin-operated laundry, but there are several options for future years,” said Stacks.

In response to an omnibus bill on the college laundry and janitorial service proposed by sophomore Doug Sittler, the student
Senate will meet Monday night with Stacks to discuss the status of the laundry.

“I'll be there to answer all the questions they want,” said Stacks. “I think the students and not the administration
should decide, and any action will be left up to the senate.”

Stacks estimated that a coin-operated laundry for 1,000 students would cost about 15,000 dollars for machinery alone, and that another
building would have to be found to hold it.

Sittler stated at a senate meeting last week that theLaundry lost 12,000 dollars last year. Stacks said that he does
not know how much money was lost because the college business office is in charge of the finances. He has
been ordered, however, to trim 14,000 dollars from the laundry budget for next year. “Since laundry fees will not be
raised, the cuts will have to come in the area of personnel and consequently services, but exactly how has not
yet been decided,” commented Stacks.

Stacks said that with a coin-operated laundry, his service will continue to handle shirts because students would have difficulty washing
and pressing them satisfactorily. With the present laundry system, the 110 dollar fee is prorated, and Stacks said that this
setup varies the amount which each student costs per year for his laundry load. “Students may vary from 100 dollars
to 200 dollars worth in the number of clothes they bring down here, but some of them may get off
a lot cheaper with a coin-operated laundry,” he said.

Commenting on the efficiency of his staff, Stacks said, “In 22 years the laundry fee has gone up 35 dollars,
but employee wages have doubled in that period of time. Also this year we have had fewer mistakes than ever
before.”

The governor, active in many regional and national educational organizations, will speak on “The Importance of Being Unique,” referring to
the individuality of colleges and universities. The Spring Convocation, which will honor the sophomore class, will begin with an academic
procession, after which Scott will be awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree, and several major student awards will be
presented.

Classes normally scheduled between 10 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. on Monday have been postponed. Besides sophomores and their parents, those
invited to the convocation include local government officials, the North Carolina Congressional delegation, members of the Board of Visitors and
the Board of Trustees, and several other alumni and friends of the college.

According to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., the convocation was planned for several reasons. First, Spencer said, the convocation
will bring the college community together during the spring, just as the Fall Convocation does at the beginning of each
academic year. Also, Spencer pointed out that the Spring Awards Convocation will give the parents of students a chance to
come to visit the campus again, since the convocation rests midway between Freshman Parents’ Weekend and Fall Convocation, honoring seniors.
Spencer also emphasized that the convocation itself can be stimulating to campus life. He is particularly pleased with Scott's visit
to campus to speak at the convocation.

“Governor Scott's concern for maintaining the strength of both the public and private sectors of higher education has been most
encouraging to those of us in the colleges and universities,” Spencer said. In a speech last fall to the North
Carolina Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, Scott called on institutions in the state to “remove the barriers to higher
education” so that more students from North Carolina would go to college. “One of the goals of my administration,” he
said, “will be to set this state on a course that will make it possible for every high school graduate,
no matter how poor he may be, to get all the post-high school education he wants, needs, and can profit
from,” Scott promised in his speech to “recommend to the state General Assembly a program of student assistance designed to
open the doors of opportunity for education beyond the high school to all of the young people of North Carolina.”
Scott has called on all institutions in the state to become as efficient as possible and to cut out any
programs with few or no graduates.

Phi Beta Kappa Taps Twenty-Five

Twenty-one seniors and four juniors were elected to the Davidson College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the nation’s oldest honorary
scholastic fraternity, last week. The seniors were Mark Steven Affeldt, Richard Davis Anderson Jr., Paul Mark Baker, David Edgar Burk
Jr., Herbert William Clegg II, Harlan Robert Day, William Eugene Early, Douglas Owen Hickman, Peter Koch Lutken, Richard Eliot Lyon,
Edward Graham McGoogan Jr., Charles Erskine Parks, Roger Dixon Peterson, Duncan Sybren Postma, Jefferson Irvine Ritchie, Stephen Elston Roady, William
Paul Sawyer, Timothy Keith Shuba, and Brian Donnelly Smith. The juniors were Daniel Gray Clodfelter, William Henry Beckman Jr., Gary
John Scibal, and Bernard Perry Scoggins.

Election to Phi Beta Kappa requires students to maintain a minimum average of B-plus (85 to 89). Not more than
eight per cent of the junior class and 12.5 per cent of the senior class may be elected. New members
will be installed on May 25, 1971.
