Vol. LX, No. Thirteen
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
January 22, 1971

This year candidates are lining up behind crucial issues in the campaign for President of the Student Government Association. The
candidates are Cecil Burney, an active politician and Vice President of the SGA; Danny Clodfelter, an experienced senator who spearheaded
the move against area exams; Joe Delk, a pro-fraternity dark horse; Jody Turner, a moderate fraternity man; and Greg Sikes,
a pro-fraternity crusader.

Burney has been on the Senate Executive Committee since he was a freshman. He was active in the drive for
voluntary ROTC, a member of the Committee of Eighteen, and is presently serving as President of the Residence Hall Council.
He is also a North Carolina Fellow. Burney feels that “one of the big weaknesses we have had is that
faculty members and administrators have frequently been irresponsive to the students. Past student leaders have been timid, giving up too
easily on important student issues.” Calling for “a change in style,” he commented on the senate last fall. “The SGA
didn't provide a forum for good exchange on the fraternity issue. It was unfortunate that pro-fraternity forces couldn't even use
the student senate as a place to go for discussion of the issues involved.”

Burney wants to reevaluate the Honor Court “to eliminate the damage done to people in the past while retaining the
ideals of honesty.” Among other things he believes that exams, grades, and the Code of Responsibility should be abolished. According
to Burney: “We need to move away from the moralistic backwoods ideas that this college runs on, and students ought
to start with a new style and a new way of doing things.”

Clodfelter is another active senator who spent a year on the Educational Policy Committee. A McConnell Scholar, he is presently
a member of the Honors College. Clodfelter thinks the trustees’ decision on fraternities is here to stay. He feels, however,
that the present program is not operating well, hurting freshmen worst of all. “Before we had institutional provisions such as
rush and pledge training to accommodate the freshmen on the court, but in this new system there is no means
for integrating a freshman into the social life.”

Clodfelter hopes the SGA, which he describes as “cumbersome,” can be replaced by “a community-wide government with representatives composed of
the students, faculty, and the administration to make decisions now made largely by the faculty.” According to Clodfelter, “We have
got to rethink the function of student government before we can have any effect on that specific issue.” He also
favors student representation on the Admissions Committee. “I think it's poppycock that if we want to do anything around here,
it’s all right if a majority of other schools do that.”

Candidates for Election

SGA PRESIDENT
Cecil Burney, Danny Clodfelter, Joe Delk, Jody Turner, and Greg Sikes.

VICE PRESIDENT
Bob Edmunds, Ken Jones, and Reggie Kennedy.

FRESHMAN ADVISERS
Phillip Dotts - John Latimer and John McLean - James Philips.

UNION PRESIDENT
Terry Hirst, Howard Daniel, and Wally Tinsley.

HONOR COURT
Class of ‘72: David Jones, Nick Livengood, James Parish, and David Russell.
Class of ‘73: Dick Clay, Bill Alexander, Howard Ramagli, Duff Bruce.

SOCIAL CHAIRMAN
Scott Keeter and Phil Leonard.

WDAV MANAGER
President: Adrian Long.
Vice President: Larry Duncan.
Secretary: No candidates.
Treasurer: Paul Yarbrough.Michael Collins, Dwight Grady, Bruce Snyder, Sanford Steelman, and Wally Tinsley. Class of '74; David Curtiss, Todd Eades,
Alec Hoon, Mark Leonard, and Mark Monson. WILDCAT HANDBOOK: Mike Dotts, Mike Frye, David Jones, and Greg Mit- Greg Gandee.
DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR: Dave Grissett and Russ Merritt - Don Parman. QUIPS & CRANKS EDITOR: Ron Conoley, Bill Lattimore, and Zack
Mobley.

Joe Delk has intentionally stayed out of campus politics so far because he "wanted to build a political base by
involving myself in academics and other activities." He is a Dana Scholar and President of Alpha Phi Omega. In music,
he has been active in the Wind Ensemble and is the leader of the Pep Band. Delk's theme for the
election is "Representation and Response." He thinks that "the SGA has slumped to a new low because its authority and
responsibility have been overextended. I want a combination of the RIHC and SGA to eliminate functional difficulties. This would centralize
the government by doing away with a few of the bureaucratic hangups in the system and make the SGA a
more responsive organization."

"Because so much interest was expressed by the Freshman Class and because the fraternity question was so ill-represented by the
senate in that they took one side of the issue to present the (See SGA, Page 3)"

MERRITT-PARMAN, GRISSETT ENTER EDITORIAL ELECTION

By ED SHOAF
Editor-in-Chief

A coeditorship team and a single candidate will be vying for editorship of THE DAVIDSONIAN in next Tuesday's elections. Russ
Merritt and Don Parman have filed to run as coeditors and will be opposed by David Grissett.

Merritt and Parman bring six years of combined experience on the paper to the race. Merritt, who worked two years
professionally for the Roanoke World-News, has served THE DAVIDSONIAN as Sports Editor and Associate Editor. As a freshman, he received
the D. Grier Martin Award as the best reporter. Parman has also served as Sports Editor and during the past
year as Managing Editor.

Grissett has served as Managing Editor over the past year and previous to that held an assistant managing editorship. In
an interview, Merritt and Parman expressed future plans for the paper as constituting their main reason for running. "We have
a definite idea of the kind of newspaper we would like to see on this campus next year," they said.
"THE DAVIDSONIAN has to become more interpretive while maintaining journalistic objectivity. There is no reason to compete with the announcement
sheet or WDAV for publicizing campus happenings.

"We would like to direct the paper more to the students here on campus than to our off-campus subscribers," the
candidates said.

Grissett, on the other hand, said he was running mainly on the basis of one issue, editorial policy. "I would
like to effect a change in editorial policy," he said, "an immediate example being the viewpoint toward the recent changes
in the social system."

Grissett went on to say, "If the purpose of the college was, as they said, to put into effect a
social system for all Davidson students, they overlooked a significant percentage of those students that still favor a mutually selective
social system of fraternities."

Editorially, Merritt and Parman said, "Our emphasis will be on improvement of the Davidson educational environment, and we will analyze
the concrete issues in- (See EDITORS, Page 2)"
