Page Six February 5, 1971 (Staff Photo by Manley)

AND AHEAD BY A QUARTER LENGTH
Runners Pete Kyle, Ron Clark, Don Butts, and Howard Boyd work out in preparation for the two mile.

Kittens Try New Offense
By PETER MICHAEL
Sports Writer

Featuring a new offense, and much improved play from Mike Sorrentino, Gordon Glasgow, and Paul Wagner, the Davidson Wildkittens enter the most difficult part of their schedule with a 9-3 record.

Freshman coach Neil McGeachy replaced his stack offense with a 1-2-2 or double post offense. The main reason for the change was to allow more versatility on offense. According to Mike Sorrentino, “Everybody has a chance to score, we don't have to rely on John Falconi.”

Falconi has been averaging 25 points per game including a high of 31 points against UNC-C, which earned him the MVP trophy for the game. In addition, Falconi has been driving towards the basket more frequently, with great success against Wake Forest. Says McGeachy, “Falconi has been a complete player all year. Defensively, he's done a good job on everyone we've assigned him to, and John’s passing has been excellent lately.”

McGeachy had been somewhat concerned with the low scoring of Mike Sorrentino, but Mike broke out of his scoring slump with 26 points against VMI, a team with an 11-1 record. Sorrentino has been averaging more than seven assists per game, specializing in bewildering passes off the fast break.

Paul Wagner has improved his rebounding of late with a season high of 16 against Wake Forest, but the Wildkittens' rebounding may be affected by the injury sustained by T. J. Pecorak. Pecorak broke a bone in his left hand in the Wake Forest game either when he hit his hand on the backboard.

Newton Nears National Times
Jim Newton became a swimmer quite by accident. The accident, however, has been a boon to both Tom Stevens and the swimming team. As a sophomore, Newton surprisingly took two firsts in the IMAC swimming meet. It was quite a shock since the math major from Atlanta had never swum competitively in his life. Coach Stevens noticed his winning times in the 50 and 100 yard freestyle and invited him to try out for the team.

Newton quickly developed into one of Davidson's top swimmers and last year set school records in both the 50 and 100 yard freestyle. This season has meant more improvement for the senior team captain. In the squad’s two meets this past weekend, he claimed firsts in the 50 and 100 yard freestyle in the two meets against Emory and DeKalb College. In the meet with Emory, he again shattered the school record in the 50 with a time of 0:22.72. The mark was only .7 seconds from the conference record.

His times have brought Coach Stevens to consider the possibility that Newton could enter the nationals later this year. His 50 yard time is .9 seconds away from qualification in the nationals while his 100 yard freestyle time is 1.9 seconds shy. If Newton should get his times down, it would be the first time Davidson has ever been represented at the nationals.

Newton hasn't been the only bright spot on the team as the squad picked up their second victory of the season Friday against DeKalb College prior to losing to Emory on Saturday. Stevens has mentioned several other swimmers who have improved rapidly. Jack Hobbs picked up two firsts in the team’s trip to Atlanta. He also cited Eric Vernon and John Knox, divers, and Greg Devane, a distance swimmer, for their fine showings in Atlanta.trying to block a shot, or when he smashed his fist into the basket support in anger following the play. Two other players who will be seeing considerable action, especially with the injury to Pecorak, are 6'6” Gordon Glasgow and Peyton Prospere. Although only 6’ in height, Prospere’s hustle has allowed him a great deal of playing time. In addition, Prospere has improved somewhat on offense with 14 points against Lees-McRae. According to McGeachy, “Peyton isn’t flashy, but he has poise, doesn't make many errors, plays good defense, and comes up with some steals.” Glasgow played little in the beginning of the year but probably will start most of the remaining games. Glasgow's rebounding has improved, as shown by the 11 rebounds he pulled down in about half a game against Wake Forest.

Thinclads Open At VMI Relays

Davidson winter track season opens tomorrow with the biggest indoor meet of this year, the Virginia Military Institute Invitational Relays. The ’Cats will participate in six events at VMI and compete against schools from across the South, according to track coach Heath Whittle. The VMI Relays are one of the biggest indoor track events, Whittle said, and will be a chance for the thinclads to get into shape for their other competition. The winter runners participate in three indoor meets, the largest at VMI. February 19 and 20 they will travel to Chapel Hill to take part in the “Big Seven” meet, a contest of North Carolina colleges. On March 6 they will take part in the Southern Conference relays at Lexington, Va.

Whittle was optimistic about the ’Cats chances at VMI. Although no Davidson runner has won at VMI, he felt that this year’s team was stronger than before and would make a good showing. The team this year is largely composed of freshmen, but only Steve Shankweiler will travel to VMI. Shankweiler will be entered in shot competition. Tom Richardson will handle the 60-yard dash for the ’Cats, and Ray Sweetenburg will run in the 60-yard hurdles. Howard Boyd will complete the running for the ’Cats in the two-mile run. Tom Rogers will enter the broad jump at VMI, and Sweetenburg will handle the triple jump. There are no points or places awarded at VMI, but trophies will be given to winners in individual categories.

Baltimore Drafts Mikolayunas

Davidson flanker Mike Mikolayunas has been drafted to play professional football for the Baltimore Colts. The Colts picked Mikolayunas in the fourteenth round of the pro draft, and he will return to his hometown soon to discuss a contract. According to Mikolayunas, no definite plans have been made on the position he will play. He said that there are possibilities for him to play tight end, split end, or running back. While playing for the ’Cats, Mikolayunas rolled up over 1,800 yards receiving and set Southern Conference records in most passes caught and yards gained receiving.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 A.M. to 10:30
Phone 82-2111 Davidson, N. C. 131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Come and Get ’em SALE
Must Clear Out At PRICE
112 SUITS—Reg. 69.95 to 110.00
130 SPORTCOATS—Reg 29.95 to 69.95
WEATHERCOATS, CARCOATS
TOPCOATS, JACKETS Reg. 27.50 to 125.00
Hundreds of MEN’S WINTER PANTS Reg. 10.95 to 25.00
SWEATERS, lambs wool V Necks, Crews Turtle, Cardigans—Reg. 13.00 to 35.00
Come see our new Flare Pants and get your new Midwinters Outfit.
Open Friday Night
John Hock & Son
Mooresville