Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Money Talks To Acceptees

The score reads: Davidson 1, South Carolina 0. Basketball? Hardly. The game is admissions, and according to a survey released this week by H. Edmunds White, director of admissions, Davidson was able to capture the majority of such admissions contests with other schools. This September, according to White, Davidson enrolled 61 percent of the students it had accepted last year.

In an effort to find out exactly why Davidson lost the other 190 applicants, White mailed a questionnaire to those students. Of the 160 letters returned, 77 listed Davidson's high costs and 71 listed better financial aid offers from other schools as their reasons for going elsewhere. The reason listed most as primary in a student's rejecting Davidson was the better aid offer at another school. The presence of coeds at another school was listed by thirty applicants as one of the factors in their decision to reject Davidson. Other factors considered by applicants turning down the Davidson offer were city campuses at other colleges (23 students), stronger academic programs elsewhere (35 students), and larger student bodies at other schools (21 students). Minor considerations seemed to be the location of the school, which 19 students felt was too far from their homes and five students felt was too close to home.

White went on, in the report, to analyze Davidson's record against other schools in instances where two schools accepted the same applicant. Only seven schools beat Davidson by more than one applicant. These schools included Dartmouth (7-2), Harvard (4-1), Johns Hopkins (3-1), the U.S. Military Academy (5-2), the U.S. Naval Academy (4-0), Wesleyan (2-0), and Yale (6-1). White also revealed that among the larger institutions in North Carolina, Davidson garnered by far the greater number of mutually accepted applicants. Duke and Davidson accepted 60 of the same students and Davidson got 40 of those. 46 of the 65 applicants accepted in common with U.N.C. came to Davidson. With Wake Forest, Davidson accepted 32 students, 26 of whom enrolled at Davidson. Among schools in the Southeast, Davidson beat Emory 15-4, Vanderbilt 3-1, Florida Presbyterian 3-2, and the University of Virginia 19-8. Davidson also beat Princeton by a score of four applicants to three.

The Davidsonian

Rising juniors Gray Wilson and Rich Wilson will be the new managing editors for THE DAVIDSONIAN staff, it was announced this week by coeditors-elect Russ Merritt and Don Parman. Gray Wilson, who has served as assistant to the managing editor this past year, will become the editor in charge of news. His assistant will be rising sophomore Robert Touchton. Rich Wilson has been assistant to the managing editor this past year also, and will take over the duties of editing the editorial feature section of the paper. Assisting him will be rising sophomore Doug Brown. Merritt and Parman also appointed rising sophomore Alec Hoon as news editor. Hoon will be in charge of news coverage and assignments for the newspaper. Rising sophomore Joe Earle was appointed from his assistant sports editor position to the sports editorship. On the copy desk will be copy editors Steve Cross, a rising senior, and David Hanig and Jim Hanna, both rising sophomores. The editorial board will include associate editors Joe Smith, Richard Anderson, Paul Rowland, Adrian Long, and Cecil Burney. All of the associate editors will serve as columnists for THE DAVIDSONIAN. John Davidson will continue with the newspaper as Photography Editor.

Alumnus Becomes U.S. Senator

By DOUG BROWN
Asst. Managing Editor

David H. Gambrell of Atlanta has become the first Davidson alumnus to become a United States Senator. On Feb. 1, he was appointed by Governor Jimmy C. Carter of Georgia to fill the unexpired term of the late Senator Richard Russell. Russell's unexpired term will run until...January 1973. Gambrell has already indicated that he intends to run for the seat himself in the 1972 election. Gambrell was chosen last fall to head the Georgia Democratic Party, and he has been a close friend and adviser of Carter. In the future, Gambrell will probably tangle with Lt. Gov. Lester Maddox, who has already expressed his intention to run for the Democratic senatorial primary in 1972. Gambrell was born in Atlanta in 1929 and received a B.S. degree in economics from Davidson in 1949. Known as ‘Meatball’ during his Davidson days, he was involved in a number of activities. He was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Le Cercle Francais, the International Relations Club, the Eumanean Literary Society (President in 1948), Sigma Upsilon, Scabbard and Blade, the “D” Club, and secretary of the publications board. He was varsity football manager, a member of THE DAVIDSONIAN, editor of the ‘Scripts and Pranks,’ and he was named to ‘Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.’ He was also a ROTC captain. Gambrell graduated cum laude from Harvard Law School in 1952 and served as a teaching fellow after a few years of private practice. He returned to private practice and was elected president of the Atlanta Bar Association for 1965-66. He became in 1967 the youngest president of the State Bar of Georgia. Gambrell is now a member of the board of directors of the National Legal Aid and Defender Association and a member of the board of editors of the American Bar Association Journal.

Town To Get Youth Center
By ADRIAN LONG
Associate Editor

The Community Relations Council (CRC) has announced that a new multi-purpose youth center for junior and senior high school students is being planned for the town of Davidson. The center, which will serve a number of different functions for the community, will hopefully replace the two youth centers which are at present operating separately. The college YMCA and the Davidson Presbyterian Church are assisting the Community Relations Council in establishing and maintaining the center. Presently, the CRC plans for the center to include a vocational information center, a college counseling service, STEP, tutorial offices, and a meeting hall for organizations of the young people of the town. According to sources on the CRC, one of the goals of the proposed youth center would be to bring the youths from the black and white sections of the town together in a social setting. Presently, the two youth centers are segregated. Also, the CRC hopes that the center would serve to provide the college students with an extracampus activity, and a chance to become involved in the life of the Davidson community. The CRC in recent years has been active in the establishment of the Lakeside Park Housing Project, which was cited by the federal government as a model housing project for the county. Also, the CRC was instrumental in establishing the Davidson Child Development Center and Day Care Center.

MIDWINTERS!
FOR THE BEST SERVICE IN TOWN
CLEANING OR SHIRT LAUNDRY - Jackson Cleaners Depot St.

Muthers Coffeehouse Theater
1225 Central Ave. phone 376-7100
Folk Music, Blues, Drama
Cold Beer
Open 7 nights a week 6:30 to 12:00
Rock Bands Sunday only 1-5

“LoveBundle”
Send your lovebundle - Our LoveBundle... “And she'll be bitten by the LoveBug. That’s me.” Usually available at $12.50. What better word than “Love”? What better way to say it than with the A special Valentine’s bouquet, with a lift-out LoveBug corsage to wear on Valentine’s Day. Order it to arrive early. Because it’s designed to stretch Valentine’s Day into a whole week. Why squeeze your love into one day? Available only at an FTD florist. At a special price. Send the FTD “LoveBundle” for Valentine’s week. *As an independent businessman, each FTD Member Florist sets his own prices.