The Vol. LX, No. Twenty-Two Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

Walter L. Lingle, chairman of the Trustee Committee on Campus Governance, expressed the tentative belief Wednesday that the faculty should relinquish its administrative responsibility for student behavior in favor of a Council on Student Conduct. In meetings with the faculty, Student Life Committee, and student Senate, Lingle explained “the general framework of thinking” of the committee in order to get reactions from members of the college community.

“Since the trustees are in no position to administer a system of student conduct,” said Lingle, “full authority should be delegated by the trustees to the President of the College. The President should establish a Council on Student Conduct which would function as a policy-making and legislative body,” he said. “A major part of the job of this council would be to study the Code of Responsibility on a continuous basis and enact changes as needed.”

Lingle explained that the code is an important standard of conduct; however, at present, it is too rigid. Under the present system, it takes a two-thirds vote of the students and a two-thirds vote of the faculty for amendments. He suggested that the Council on Student Conduct have the power to make necessary changes in the code.

The composition of this council has not been determined. One idea which has been suggested, according to Lingle, was to have a 14-man committee: seven students (the four class presidents, the student body president, and two students appointed by the student body president), Dean of Students (chairman), Chaplain, Student Coordinator, and four faculty members elected by that body.

“The only restriction on the power of that council,” said Lingle, “would be if the President of the College felt the proposed change was in contradiction of any known policy or trustee standards. He could suspend activation of the change until the matter could be referred to the Trustee Executive Committee within one month after its proposal,” he said.

The judicial system is to be revised as well. Lingle suggested that all rules and regulations of the college be enumerated along with their specific sanctions. These rules and regulations may be divided into two groups. One group will consist of administrative regulations such as parking violations and Residence Hall violations. These regulations would be administered by the Dean of Students. The second group of regulations, which would include violations of the code, would be handled by either the hearing committee or the Dean of Students.

“If a student violated one of these regulations,” said Lingle, “the judicial procedure will begin with the notification of the Dean of Students. At that point, the Dean of Students...”

A resolution to put three students on the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee with full voting rights in policy-making decisions passed its first hurdle on Monday night as the SGA ratified the proposal 12-3. Since the proposal involves a change in the faculty constitution, ten percent of...

---

Friday, April 16
All Day - The Momentum Cage and other rides
8 p.m. - Concert: Judy Collins
10:30 p.m. - Blanket Flick

Saturday, April 17
All Day - The Momentum Cage and other rides
12:30 a.m. - Concert: Steve Gillette
1:15 p.m. - Movie
3 p.m. - Southern Folk Festival
8 p.m. - Concert: Dreams
10:30 p.m. - Blanket Flick

Sunday, April 18
1:30 a.m. - Blanket Concert: Manhattan Transfer with Gene Pistilli
3:30 a.m. - Concert: Great Speckled BandThe faculty must draw up a petition endorsing the resolution before it can be brought before the faculty for consideration. Student Senate President Danny Clodfelter hopes that the faculty will consider the proposal this spring. When questioned about his opinion of the proposal, Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White said, “I am in favor of the principle of students sitting on the committee for the purpose of making policy. I will not try to influence the faculty decision. However, if I am asked, I will state my position.”

The resolution, formulated by Bob Wallace, Ran Coble, and Allen Peterson, states: “Be it resolved that a request be made to the faculty to amend relevant sections of the faculty constitution; that three students be admitted as members of the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee as voting members in policy-making functions. Be it further resolved that the makeup of the student representatives be decided by the student senate.”

Wallace explained that a recommendation to allow students to see confidential information was not included in the proposal because of the opposition of high school counselors. “The responses that we got from questionnaires sent out to high school guidance counselors revealed much opposition to the idea of students viewing confidential files. Many counselors expressed the conviction that they would no longer be completely candid with Davidson College if students were admitted to committees dealing with classified material.”

The questionnaire, drawn up by Coble and Peterson, solicited responses from approximately 200 secondary schools on their favor of or opposition to students being members of admissions committees. The computed percentages of responses revealed that a majority favored students on the Admissions Committee for policy, but the statistics also showed that 88 percent of those polled were opposed to students viewing confidential files.

White expressed approval of the way the whole proposal was handled. “I was pleased that they did not ask that students be put on the committee to read confidential material. I want guidance counselors to have confidence in Davidson procedures.”

Clodfelter was optimistic over the chances of the resolution passing the faculty this spring. “By getting Mr. White’s support and by following the proper constitutional procedures, we should be able to meet most faculty objections and get the proposal passed this spring.”

In other action, the senate endorsed the People's Peace Treaty presented by Senator Mark Meza by a vote of 8-4-1 and had it sent on to the National Student Association. Editors Russ Merritt and Don Parman have also signed the treaty. “The senate’s endorsement does not necessarily mean that the student body endorses the treaty. What it does signify is that the senate representing the student body endorses it,” Clodfelter affirmed.