Page Six November 5, 1971

The Davidsonian

Pack Topples Booters 4-1; ‘Cats Prepare For SC Finals

By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

With the regular season behind it, Davidson’s soccer team is now looking toward its second consecutive Southern Conference championship. The
championship game will be played at the home field of the Southern Conference northern champion. That team will be either
East Carolina or William and Mary. William and Mary has a record of 3-7, while East Carolina is 7-3-1. The
two meet tomorrow at Greenville, N.C. to decide who will meet the Wildcats. Then the Southern Conference championship game will
be played either at East Carolina on Saturday, Nov. 13 or at William and Mary on Friday, Nov. 12.

East Carolina is the favorite to win, and if the Pirates do, they will be out to avenge a 2-1
setback at the hands of Davidson last week. Coach Harry Fogleman is expecting East Carolina to win, and if they
do to give the Wildcats a tough game. “They have a very fine team,” he said.

Davidson ended its regular season on a sour note, dropping a 4-1 decision to N.C. State. Fogleman was disappointed, saying,
“Neither team really played as well as it was capable of playing.” The ’Cats defense made two costly mistakes which
led directly to the Wolfpack’s first two goals. Davidson was never ahead throughout the game. However, Fogleman was optimistic about
the coming championship contest. “We still have a chance to win the big one,” he commented.

The N.C. State game was a big one for Davidson, because if the ‘Cats had won, they would have been
in the running for one of the two Southern representative spots in the NCAA soccer championships. Early in the week,
Fogleman had noted that Davidson would be among the top teams up for consideration along with Clemson, Maryland, South Florida,
and others if the team could beat the Wolfpack. After Tuesday’s loss, there is no chance that the Wildcats could
get a bid.

Fogleman added that he was very pleased with the turnouts at the home games. “We were averaging around 400 people
a game,” he said. “It's really good to see that many spectators at a soccer game.”

The Wildcats go into the Southern Conference championship match with a 10-2 record. Both defeats came at the hands of
Atlantic Coast Conference teams, N.C. State and Duke. The 10-2 mark is one of the best in Davidson history.

By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

Injuries to two key runners and a

IMAC FLICKERBALL ALL-STARS

LEAGUE “A”

OFFENSE
TB Bick Halligan HP
David Russell KS
Greg Cameron BTP
Guard Dave Mehlen PKA
Center Dennis Cholak BTP
Ends Jim Brown PDT
Ray Swetenberg PKA

DEFENSE
Backs Cooper Geraty KS
Dave Griffiths KS
Jim Wright PDT
Jack Willits BTP
Rusher Ray Swetenberg PKA
Ends Frank Clark KS
Mike Tombari BTP

LEAGUE “B”

OFFENSE
TB Calvin Allen Em 1
HR Dave Weaver SAE
(tie) Mike Hyrne IND
(tie) Bruce Baird SAE
Guard Larry Duncan PAX
Center Rub Little Em 1
Ends Roy Campbell SAE
Larry Ruddell Em 1

DEFENSE
Backs Rob Benton IND
Dave Weaver SAE
(tie) Bob Solberg KA
(tie) John Brandon KA
(tie) Mike Hyrne IND
Rusher Clint McCann Em 1
Daryl Williams KA
Bruce Baird SAE

League “A” defeated League “B” 44-22 in Tuesday's all-star game.General slump helped to end the Davidson cross-country team’s season on
a sour note, and that note is liable to be the tune the Wildcat harriers sing in the Southern Conference
meet next Monday. The ’Cats lost to High Point College last Monday by a 17-38 margin, and according to team
captain Howard Boyd, “nobody ran well.”

“The whole team ran kind of flat,” said Boyd, “and our injuries hurt us.” “Joe Shibley has a pulled groin
muscle, and Paul Mitchell has some bruised cartilage in his knee, and is wearing a cast,” said Boyd. Neither runner
competed in last Monday’s meet at High Point, and while Shibley will probably run in Monday’s conference meet, “he has
lost out on a lot of practice, and won't be in tip-top shape,” according to Boyd.

Both Boyd and cross-country coach Sterling Martin are pessimistic about the ’Cats’ chances in the conference contest. “We're outgunned in
the conference race,” said Boyd, “and the only team we really had a chance to beat—Richmond—is not going to run,
so we will probably get sixth place in a six-team meet.”

The High Point loss finished Davidson's season with a 3-9 won-lost chart, an improvement over last year’s 1-14 record. High
Point placed five men in the first six finishers, with Ricky Bell coming in fourth for the ’Cats. Following Bell
for Davidson were Rick Mullen, Ricky Deal, Howard Boyd, and Ron Clark.

---

Skippers To Host Regatta

The next major regatta the Davidson sailing team will participate in will be the one they sponsor themselves. The Wildcat
skippers will host the SAISA in a regatta on Lake Norman Nov. 13. Unlike the past few Davidson races, this
will not be the SAISA championship. The championship will be held at The Citadel the following weekend.

This Saturday, the skippers will take on the Lake Norman Yacht Club in a hometown rivals contest. They had intended
to go to the College of Charleston to compete, but were not able to secure transportation.

The team has not fared especially well thus far into the season, racing in only two regattas and placing poorly
in those. They took seventh out of seven at the University of Tennessee and fifth of seven at Clemson.

“We just didn't send our best men,” said team captain Allan Lundy. He said the team’s best skippers were presently
Dan Johnston and Jimmy Hunter. “We intend to concentrate on winning our regatta and the championship,” Lundy said, “the rest
is merely practice for the finals.”

There are no official standings in the SAISA: the team that wins the championship regatta is declared the conference winner.

---

(Staff photo by Barnes)

FIGHTING AHEAD. Wildcat booter Steve Culbertson heads the ball over a State defender.

---

Salads “After Church” Sunday Buffet

All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room
Desserts

---

WE GOT ‘UM FOR YOU

NEW & USED COWBOY BOOTS
NEW & USED HARNESS BOOTS
GEORGE & CHUKKA BOOTS
HI-STYLE SLIPPERS & BOOTS
OUR PRICE IS RIGHT—SEE ‘UM

STATESVILLE LEATHER CO.
Charlotte Highway
Statesville, N. C.

---

La Roma Ristoranti

BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS

La Roma Ristoranti
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576

OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY
