Page Six

Outside Perspective
By ALEC HOON
News Editor

Flat Hat Under Fire

Dr. Davis Paschall, President of William and Mary College, has established a committee to consider the future of the school newspaper, “The Flat Hat,” in the wake of three formal complaints that the newspaper had violated concepts of good taste, allegedly using the word “shit” twice in print and “fuck” once. This action was taken despite the board’s campus publications committee recommendation that no action be taken against the paper. One possible alternative would be that the college would no longer be the legal publisher, giving the editors full financial and editorial responsibility.

Rally For Victory Planned

“The Emory Wheel” reports that organizers under the leadership of Bob Spencer of Atlanta are planning a March 20 march on the State capital in Atlanta under the theme of “Victory over Communism.” Spencer said, “This gathering of concerned citizens will demonstrate to our government leaders and the world that there are many people in the United States who believe in victory, both spiritual and military.” This march is apparently intended to counterbalance the effect of the May Day Offensive.

Money Pinch Felt

“The Vanderbilt Hustler” has reported that while applicants for the Freshman Class are “among the best ever... the shortage of available scholarship funds will prove an insurmountable obstacle for many students otherwise qualified to enter the University.” This pinch was felt most acutely by black applicants who needed financial aid. Only 99 blacks have applied so far this year as opposed to 140 who sought entrance to the University last year.

Curriculum Innovations

Faculty, students, and administrators are presently discussing an “experimental college” at Emory University, “The Emory Wheel” has reported. “Essentially, participants in an experiment in education would have to work harder because they would have to create their own academic structures.” “A number of options are being discussed, including a learning environment in which students and faculty would meet on an informal basis, studying, living, and socializing together.”

Black President Elected

On Friday, March 26, Harry Walker was elected President of the student body of the University of South Carolina, the first black ever to win that office, according to “The Gamecocks.” He destroyed all opposition, beating his nearest opponent by the margin of 2,038 to 807. Skeptics had said that it would snow in the spring before a black student body president would be chosen. Ironically, Walker was elected and then it snowed, several hours after he made his acceptance speech.

April 9, 1971

The Davidsonian

Co-ed Interest Declines

Only seven students, two of them male, have decided to attend Davidson next year under the Eight College Exchange Program, it was announced this week. According to Jay H. Ostwalt, director of educational development, the number is much smaller than had originally been expected at Davidson. “We don't know why the number is so small. We think that probably it’s because Davidson's isolated from the girls in the participating Virginia schools.” This year 10 women came to Davidson from Mary Baldwin, Hollins, Sweet Briar, and Randolph-Macon Colleges under the exchange. Two of the co-ed exchange students stayed for only the fall term. Ostwalt said that he felt communication failures are at fault for the apparent decline in interest in Davidson. “We're inclined to think that it’s a general lack of information concerning the program and the school. The girls here this year haven't had the opportunity to talk about the program to others at their home schools.” Four of the women who will attend Davidson next year under the program are from Mary Baldwin.

They Struggle With Universities

DAVID HANIG
Copy Editor

For a private liberal arts college to survive in the face of rising competition from state-supported schools, it must make its educational product more attractive to potential students, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said in Monmouth, Ill., Wednesday. Spencer spoke at an Honors Convocation at Monmouth College on the topic, “Who Will Buy?” Monmouth, like Davidson, is a private liberal arts college. “The liberal arts college has built-in antidotes to many of the standard complaints of students,” Spencer pointed out. “The most frequent complaints are impersonality,”Preoccupation with graduate students, poor teaching, irrelevance, and non-commitment.” The antidotes of private liberal arts colleges, he continued, include their size, their residential nature and sense of community, their emphasis on the undergraduate, their emphasis on teaching, and their tradition of commitment to values. “To capitalize on these assets,” Spencer suggested that teachers ought to be chosen for their “enthusiasm for teaching, a concern for people in general and students in particular, and a sense of loyalty and obligation to the institution.” Spencer added that an incentive system for teachers that would be based on good teaching instead of good research might be helpful in creating an atmosphere conducive to quality teaching. Selecting students on the basis of potential contributions to the college community in addition to the regular academic requirements is important also, Spencer added. Spencer recommended that academic programs have to go beyond “reshuffling” to true reform, even to the point of questioning the present importance of credit and combining the senior year of high school and the freshman year of college. Instead of “going a-whoring” by imitating big universities, small colleges must take advantage of their assets by justifying “education on grounds well beyond its utilitarian value,” he concluded.

Opie, Harris Awarded Scholarships

By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Asst. Managing Editor

Davidson seniors Thomas Ranson Opie and Robert Shields Harris have been awarded scholarships for graduate study from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The scholarship is for $2400 a year plus tuition and fees, and is renewable for a second year. Opie plans to attend Cornell University and major in organic chemistry next year. He considered Princeton as well as Cornell and visited both over the spring break. He decided on Cornell because of its particularly strong biochemistry division, as well as what he considered its overall excellence in his area. Opie was offered assistantships by both schools in addition to the NSF scholarship, and his acceptance of the scholarship from Cornell will be tempered by allowances from the NSF. Harris, Davidson's other NSF recipient, has made no decision concerning the use of his scholarship. In addition to the NSF, Harris has received a National Defense Education Act (NDEA) Title 14 Fellowship from the University of Michigan, and he is considering accepting it. There is only one such award made annually.

Other Participants

Participants include Sandra May, Linda Lueders, Jennet Robinson, and Emily Marie Ferrara. Barbara Blackwood of Hollins is the other woman in the program. Two men from Hampden-Sydney, Ray Mettetal and Ralph Charles Hess, will also attend Davidson under the exchange program. Ten Davidson students will attend Hollins next year under the program. Five students from Davidson are presently studying at Hollins. Ostwalt pointed out that Davidson has established a similar program with Queens which will be conducted next year. The same provisions of the Eight College Exchange Program will be in effect in the exchange with Queens. According to Ostwalt, administrative details are still being worked out for the Queens exchange, but the program should be open for applications soon. Besides the Queens exchange, Ostwalt pointed to the fact that Davidson is accepting late applications from coed exchangees. “We're doing everything possible to make our co-ed exchange program work. We're willing to help in any way that we can.” Ostwalt said that some of the other schools participating in the exchange program have been faced with a greater lack of interest than Davidson. Only Washington & Lee had more applicants under the program, as over 20 women from Hollins applied there. Thirteen women had originally applied to Davidson. Ostwalt, although disappointed, did not feel that the program is in any trouble. “We're hoping to get better exposure for the program next year. One year can’t give a good indication of the success of such a program. Next year at this time we will have something to go on when we evaluate the program.”

Phone 872-2111
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 A.M. to 10:30 P.M.
Davidson, N. C.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies
131 N. Main St.