LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Burney Blitzed For ROTC Column

To The Editor:

I am a conscientious objector and it should logically follow that I would concur with Cecil Burney’s proposal in the
Oct. 8 DAVIDSONIAN edition to abolish the ROTC program from Davidson College. That is not the case. I feel that
the disappearance of the ROTC program from Davidson would have a detrimental effect on our college, the individual student, the
army, and our country.

We must retain the spirit of freedom of opinion at Davidson. That freedom is necessary because we should know what
our opponents have to say, preferably first hand. Freedom of discussion improves our own position. Through that discussion, we are
better qualified to assess our own polemical strengths and weaknesses as well as those of our opponents. As a result,
we are better equipped to attack our adversary's stand. The liberty of all men is our vital necessity. There comes
a time when the freedom of others is no longer a question of their right, but a question of our
need. To eradicate an individual or an organization because we are in disagreement with them is to repudiate the search
for truth and freedom that Davidson should encourage. Without acquainting ourselves thoroughly with the object of our criticism, we become
ignorant of the truth. For that reason, man must cherish and protect liberty as a means of advancing the discovery
of truth.

To inspire the adoption of our point of view by the removal of those with whom we disagree is but
the subtle adoption of conformity and the utilization of means other than democratic. Totalitarian rulers do not consider it necessary
to tolerate any opposition — they eliminate it. In the Joe McCarthy era of our own United States, rational thinking
and the basic freedoms of our country were abridged by a few men’s emotionalism and many men's silent acquiescence. Consequently,
a reign of conformity settled over our country. Is Davidson College to succumb to a “liberal” conformity at the expense
of the spirit of freedom of opinion?

Davidson College should retain the ROTC program because of the program's contribution to the diversity of ideological opportunity that it
offers the individual. Mr. Burney stated that those who enter the program “don’t think very much.” That statement has some
merit. I entered West Point as an unquestioning, politically naive, and morally unstable person. The multitude of experiences that I
went through up there brought me to the sincere conclusion that I was misplaced. I did not belong at West
Point because I was a conscientious objector. The same moral convictions that brought me to the attainment of my C.O.
status existed prior to my attendance at the Point. However, it took the unique experience of the United States Military
Academy to make me realize exactly how I felt. I knew others at the Point who came to the same
conclusion I did as a result of their exposure there. I know of still others who began or went through
their ROTC program and who felt their convictions towards life emerge. Is Davidson College to deny the individual that important
ideological opportunity?

Davidson should retain the ROTC program because of the damage the abolishment of the program could do to the Army
and the country itself. Unfortunately, the Army is a necessary institution. Fortunately, it is not an independent organization but, in
Thoreau’s words, “only an arm of the standing government.” However, a narrow-minded, dogmatic Army is not necessary. Such an Army
would be a jeopardy to our country. To prevent that type of Army, there is a need for those men
in the Army who possess the belief in the basic freedoms of our nation, not the least of which is
the freedom of opinion. I believe that Davidson possesses men of that stature. For those whose consciences allow them to
enter the Army, let them. However, let us hope that the spirit of the freedoms of our United States enters
with them.

When I was at West Point, we were given question and answer opinions with our Tactical Officers. One cadet asked
his Tac what he should do if he was given an order that violated his conscience. The officer replied that
he didn’t give a damn what a trooper’s convictions or morals were, when he gave an order that order had
best be obeyed... or else. An Army composed solely of this type of man? Frightening, isn't it?

Woodrow Wilson said these words in 1896 at the time of the Princeton Sesquicentennial: “I have had sight of the
perfect place of learning in my thought: a free place, and a various, where no men could be and not
know with how great a destiny knowledge had come into the world. A place where to hear the truth about
the past and hold debate about...

The Davidsonian
October 15, 1971
Page Fivethe affairs of the present, with knowledge and without passion; like the world in having men’s life at heart,
a place for men and all that concerns them. Who shall show us the way to this place?” It is
my hope, and I trust it is yours, that people may say that Davidson College is that place.

Andy Bell ‘74
Davidson College

To The Editor:

Unless you are an absolute moron, it is difficult to miss the point of a Cecil Burney column; this past
week’s column on ROTC was no exception. In no uncertain terms, Cecil made his position quite clear. Since, in arguing
a point, one generally overstates one’s case, it is quite understandable that Cecil may have said some things which he
doesn’t wholeheartedly believe or which are not actually so. For example, I have a brother who is a sophomore at
Furman University and who is a pre-med student. He has seriously considered entering the ROTC program at Furman so that
he would be eligible for a program (sponsored by none other than the United States Army) which would help finance
him through medical school. I know my brother quite well from our years of association, and I sincerely believe that
he has made a real attempt to understand his own feelings, to formulate his opinions, and to act for himself;
furthermore, I consider neither his rational decisions nor his actions based on those decisions to be infantile, moronic, or stupid.
And he certainly doesn’t have the “killer instinct” except perhaps for the few times when he has felt like causing
me grievous personal injury. Incidentally, neither his father nor his grandfather was an officer in any military establishment. Similar examples
can be found here at Davidson. ROTC is not all bad, as some naive reader of Mr. Burney’s column might
have been led to believe. In fact, as a faute de mieux solution to an otherwise insuperable quandary, it is
extremely helpful.

Bill Beckmann ‘72
Davidson College

To The Editor:

My first reaction to Cecil Burney's most recent column in THE DAVIDSONIAN, “The American Army Plays Fun and Games on
Campus,” was one of rage, not only because he slandered me personally as an ROTC Cadet, but also because he
twisted and distorted the image of an institution which is important to me. However, my rage was soon displaced by
an intent to respond to the article. I’m afraid that Burney has seriously damaged his reputation as a serious, thoughtful,
and judicious individual through this column. The article reeks of unsupported, illogical statements. The idea that ROTC is one of
the institutions that make wars happen is preposterous. Burney’s understanding of the purpose of ROTC drill is completely incorrect. He
implies that the college is paying for the ROTC program when, in reality, the U.S. Army bears the burden. Burney
does not stop with wild unfounded statements. In the grand style of the 19th Century muckrakers, he descends into the
realm of personal invective. He unequivocally groups all ROTC Cadets as unthinking, insensitive, and immature children who have to be
lured into the program. I reject this statement purely on the basis of knowledge of myself and my fellow cadets.
Burney’s characterization of the ROTC cadre as regressed flatheads brings to mind a question. When was the last time that
he spoke at length with any of the staff members? My personal experience with the cadre shows them to be
intelligent, aware individuals. Finally, in the very worst way possible, Burney maligns a fellow student and campus leader. The article
is climaxed by an extremely poor and distasteful attempt to emotionalize the issue beyond the reach of reason and sound
judgment. The tales of Dok-Lo and the nameless young man, admittedly, are sad and unfortunate, though they are obvious fabrications
of someone's imagination. However, they are irrelevant to the issue and do not belong in a serious column. Apparently, Burney’s
main point, however hidden it may be, is that the college community must rid itself of ROTC if for no
other reason than Burney has so decreed and because of the fact that many good parking spaces are occupied by
staff cars. In my mind, ROTC is no different from any other specialized academic program such as the South-East Asia
Program, the Honors College, or the JYA Program. All are voluntary and all remain on campus because of student interest.
When there is no longer a sufficient number of interested students to justify the continuance of the ROTC Program, that
is the time that it should be dropped. Until then, it is suggested that Burney attempt to develop that virtue
known as tolerance and that he practice self-restraint. In short, the column is a monument to poor taste, to rabid,
unreasoned thought, and to irrational sensationalism. Burney thereby besmirches both himself and the newspaper for which he writes.

Calvin Wicker ‘72
Scott R. McMichael ‘72
John A. Ribet II ‘72
Gary H. Riggs ‘72
Richard D. Stansbury ‘72
Davidson College
