Page Six  
May 21, 1971  
The Davidsonian  

LETTER TO THE EDITOR  

Gamma Chi  

To the Editor:  

Last Thursday afternoon (May 13), representatives of those fraternities desiring to set up eating and/or living facilities off-campus met with the Student Life Committee of the Trustees in hopes that the trustees might be convinced to delete Article Seven from the new social plan instituted last fall, which forbids such action.  

The argument did not involve the issue of the inherent good or evil of selectivity. Rather, the representatives assumed that there were different beliefs concerning selectivity due to personal ideals, and argued instead about their rights as Davidson College students. It seems only fair and just that fraternity members be granted the same rights as any other students regarding where they are going to eat or live.  

College regulations require that freshmen eat in the college union cafeteria, but levy no restrictions whatsoever on where or with whom upperclassmen eat. In regards to where a student is to live, it has been the practice in the past to grant upperclassmen special permission to live off-campus according to whether or not they have places to live and according to how many dormitory spaces are available. To deny these rights to fraternity members solely because they are fraternity members is blatantly discriminatory.  

It is logical and justifiable for the college to discontinue subsidizing a selective social system when it has decided to direct its policy against selectivity. Certainly, the college would be foolish to do otherwise. Fraternity members understand the reasoning behind this action and do not wish to reverse the college’s decision.  

The fraternity representatives found the SLC to be absolutely intolerant to the fraternities’ side of the issue. Between childish elbowing and snickering between two of the trustees and muffled reminders that fraternity men did have to graduate, it became evident that the trustees had made up their minds.  

That same evening, fraternity members showed up for the trustees-student reception, only to find that the pitifully few trustees that bothered to show were generally close-minded about the whole fraternity issue. It was no surprise, then, when the trustees voted to reaffirm their former stand against eating and living facilities for fraternity members.  

To the Editor:  

I was pleased to read the constructive and temperate comments of student Tesfaye Demmalash. I want to quote several passages from the Encyclopaedia Britannica. These are among some I had planned to use, had my scheduled talk not been cancelled out by those who initially decided to invite me—Patterson and Kincaid.  

“The deep-seated conviction of an inevitable clash between Communist Russia and the outside world led to emphasis being placed by Russia on a war economy, and the subordination of all other activities. By ruthless purges in 1936 to 1938, Stalin eliminated...”  

Organization Asks For Election Help  

To the Editor:  

Last January, the installation of a Black government in Greene County, Alabama, was celebrated as the beginning hope and substance for an authentic social and political movement in the South. Before that time, Black people there had struggled for years to gain a fair application of laws and a peaceful, decent life for their community.  

Now, these basic aspirations have a reality and a chance to grow. Still, the task of continuing this free way of life and opening up possibilities in other Black Belt counties has only begun. Although the elections are a year away, in 1972, there can be no delay in the work that is necessary to win. Registration drives, mass meetings, voter education projects, canvassing, and trouble-shooting (preventing intimidation) are only the outward, visible kinds of activities that require much time, people, and funds. In some Black counties, Sumter and Marengo, the spirit of hope that gives people a vigilance to go must be rekindled.  

Friends of Greene County is an organization which is designed to raise the resources by which electoral politics in South Alabama can improve the lives of people. So that the people of this region may begin to determine their own destiny, I hope you will aid us in this cause.  

Steve Suitts, Chairman  

Make Checks Payable to:  
Friends of Greene County  
P. O. Box 1927  
Tuscaloosa, Alabama 35401Off-campus fraternities. Neither was the economic situation considered. An off-campus fraternity system would create no cost problems for the college. Nor did they consider the current philosophy of administrative-student relations, for such tight control of students' social life is a definite lapse back to an "in loco parentis" stand. It is inconceivable that the college should thus try to impose its new social system on all students. Admittedly, fraternities were not a viable social alternative for all students. But, likewise, the new social system will not suit everyone's tastes or needs. Those of us who are in fraternities that desire to move off campus simply do not feel that we can become a part of such a system. We believe that the fraternity system has been, and will continue to be, the best one for us.

America Faces Russia, China In Viet Conflict

Those persons who could endanger his leadership. Several hundred thousand leading persons were killed. "The development of communism after World War II showed two opposite faces: a completely closed society in Russia, and at the same time the resumption of the original world-wide revolutionary drive." Once students and other citizens understand that what happened in Korea, and what is happening in Vietnam, are a part of this conspiracy as dealt with in perhaps the most neutral of authorities, "the Encyclopedia Britannica," each current incident will be seen as a part of a historical event of great magnitude. Actually, in Vietnam, America is fighting Russia and China. Now, one other point. Nixon fell heir to a nasty war. If he followed the party, Rennie Davis (now in jail for conspiracy to violate the rights of others), Jerry Rubin, Hugh Hester, and Professor Patterson, he would act tragically. The consequences may best be pictured by reducing the war to this: You are fighting a criminal assassin because a weak neighbor called for help. You have been struggling with this man in the neighbor’s yard. Other people come to the scene and watch. Some of them say to you (but not the assassin), "Tell this criminal that you will, in five minutes, drop your guard, turn your back, and walk off—he won't hurt you." Would you trust the criminal? Nixon is wise enough not to. He knows the neighborhood is gathering reinforcements who will soon be strong enough so that when Nixon quits, he will not be murdered from behind. Let those who cry for "Peace" spend their energies trying to persuade the Russian and Chinese communists to cease their efforts to break into the homelands of others, and defile and take possession of them. Only in that direction lies true peace.

E. P. Thorton
Murrells Inlet, S.C.

Trustee Action

We desire only to perpetuate the organizations that have played very important parts in our college lives. Hence, the trustees’ refusal to show interest in student opinion or reasoning has made us become disillusioned, angered, and alienated. One would think that the rights of students would fare better in such a citadel of benevolent liberation. Davidson College is hardly the place where traces of authoritarianism should be found, and fraternity members, according to the popular stereotype, are the last people who should have to work against the administration to gain their rights. Something is wrong.

Delta Kappa Chapter
Phi Gamma Delta
Davidson College

STUDY SOUNDS IMPROVE GRADES

Improve Grades While Devoting The Same Amount Of Time To Study — Use Study Sounds. Increase Your Concentration And Improve Your Comprehension. Study At A Faster Rate. Electrically Produced sounds cause this To Happen. Please Specify 8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record. Send Check or Money Order — $9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage, Sound Concepts, Inc.,—Box 3852, Charlottesville, Va. 22902.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
OPEN 9-8
MONDAY - SATURDAY
The Hub

GALLEY FISH CAMP. TAPROOM
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

STUDENTS - TEACHERS
MALE AND FEMALE

Earn $1500 this summer in addition to a chance at $6000 in cash scholarships. Pleasant Sales Promotional Work. Plenty of Free Time to Pursue Own Interests. For Personal Interview Call: Personnel 377-4973 377-4974. Write: Personnel Suite 306, 207 Hawthorne Ln., Charlotte, N. C. 28204.