Page Eight

Friday, October 29
8 p.m. Drama Production: "Taming of the Shrew"

Saturday, October 30
8:15 p.m. Drama Production: "Taming of the Shrew"

Monday, November 1
8 p.m. Speaker: Abram Eisenman
10 p.m. Senate Meeting

Wednesday, November 3
10 a.m. Staley Lecturer: Dr. Clark Pinnock
8 p.m. Fine Films: "Un Chien Andalou" and "Simon of the Desert"

Thursday, November 4
8:30 p.m. Hungry d: John and Carrie Carney
9:15 p.m. Hungry d: John and Carrie Carney

Friday, November 5
1:30 p.m. Freshman Football
8:30 p.m. Hungry d: John and Carrie Carney
9:45 p.m. Hungry d: John and Carrie Carney

Saturday, November 6
8:30 p.m. Hungry d: John and Carrie Carney
9:45 p.m. Hungry d: John and Carrie Carney

Locations:
Hodson Hall & Morrison Room
Love Auditorium: Blue Room
Phi Gam House
Citadel

College Hostel Can House Student Dates Cheaply

At last, a program has been instituted on the Davidson campus whereby a girlfriend or date can inexpensively stay while
visiting. The Davidson College Hostel, located in the basement of the Guest House, runs on the honor system. The girl
first is requested to sign her name and address and indicate the length of her stay on the register. After
depositing a dollar solely for linen, the only expense incurred, she then makes her bed and at the end of
her visit puts the dirty bedclothes in a laundry hamper. Each package of linen is an additional dollar. The hostel
has room for 30 accommodations distributed over four separate rooms, the most crowded of which sleeps 14 in seven bunk
beds. There is one bathroom having twin showers. Such a system requires little maintenance and a relatively small amount of
supervision. The dollar fee is collected by Scotty Nicholls, Student Housing Director, and is used to cover the laundry costs
for clean linen and for the general upkeep of the hostel. “The idea is to keep the program simple,” said
Dean of Students, Will H. Terry. “If it seems to work, we can always add to it, putting in more
bunk beds.”

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

College Students To Decide On Resumption Of Free U.
By BILL GIDUZ
Staff Writer

The formerly successful Davidson College Free University has not resumed operation so far this year, and prospects for its resumption
are dim at this time. The Free U. still has a bank account of $420.00 and two co-directors, seniors Kurt
Geisinger and Jack Scott, but the two are not optimistic about the future of the organization. It was started in
the fall of 1968 by a student, Rich Cowart, and the Free U. operated for two terms each year until
now, with courses being taught by regular faculty and students alike. Courses that were offered in the Free U. included
family planning, auto mechanics, sculpture, personal finance, and Christian-Marxist dialogue. Geisinger noted that the Free U. complemented the regular college
curriculum, and in no way tried to compete with it. Geisinger and Scott now feel that the Free U. may
have served its purpose. According to Scott, there were originally three purposes of the Free U., “to offer courses...

Comprehensive (Continued from Page Two)

At the urging of students, the administration has agreed to break down the comprehensive fee according to categories to let
students know what their money is being spent for. The student senate wants a distinction made between resident and non-resident
students, and the administration agreed to look into this and other points. Further meetings are to be held, and it
is hoped that exemptions and guidelines for the comprehensive fee will be discussed. During the two-hour meeting, both sides maintained
their stated positions vis-a-vis the comprehensive fee for the most part.On campus, one could not get in the regular curriculum,
to offer adult education, and to offer education for the high school students in the area who wanted to take
courses over here.” Both feel that those three purposes are no longer valid. Some of the Free U. courses, such
as astronomy and parapsychology, are now offered in the regular Davidson curriculum, while the Extended Studies program allows the student
to follow up any other subject that he might be interested in.

A review of attendance showed that a comparatively low number of adults attended the class sessions, and finally, the college
is now thinking about a program involving local high school students. Geisinger outlined some other reasons for the demise of
the Free U. “For it to be successful, you've got to have the Queens girls coming out, but the Queens
girls come out for the first two or three times, and then if they don’t like the class, they stop
coming. It’s a long way to come.” The same proved true for Davidson students, and “people just don't do the
work if they aren't getting a grade, it’s really hard to keep the interest up.”

Geisinger continued by lamenting the fact that there was outside work in the Free U., but said that the 1½
hour per week class schedule made the work necessary if anything was to be accomplished. The $420.00 budget this year
was obtained from appropriations from the student senate and the student activities fund. Geisinger and Scott stressed that the money
would be returned to the donors if it is decided to disband the Free U. That decision will be made
on the basis of the results of a poll to be distributed to all students during the winter term. The
final decision will subsequently be made before the end of the winter term. However, Scott emphasized that he and Geisinger
are not trying to dump the project. “We're perfectly willing to help people get it started again if they feel
like it’s worth their time.” Therefore, the fate of the Free U., which was conceived for the students, is up
to the students, and will depend on their interest in that method of education.

Davidson To Fast To Help Refugees

One of the greatest human tragedies of modern times is occurring at this very moment in India where nine million
refugees from crisis-torn East Pakistan are starving. To help remedy this terrible situation, every high school and college in the
nation will have the opportunity to participate in The November 3 Fast to Save a People, jointly sponsored by Oxfam-America
and Project Relief. The college Peace Coalition is sponsoring the fast at Davidson. Students are asked to abstain from eating
for one day and use the money saved to help the refugees in India. A drop box for contributions will
be located in the Union on Nov. 3 so that all Davidson students will be able to help a starving
people who desperately need the concern of others.

If you grooved with the early Elvis Presley (“Love Me Tender”)... let your radio blare out “So Rare” by Jimmy
Dorsey... wore white bucks, pink shirts, bobby socks... bought all the Platters records; later, the Lettermen, Association, and Vogues... and
today Chicago, Blood, Sweat, & Tears... and still Elvis, you understand why WBT Radio's “Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame”
is such a hit. Nostalgia is invading fashion, art, and literature, and WBT now invades the world of music, as
far back as 1950. Mike Ivers, Music Director of WBT, hosts the five-hour show... and he does far more than
spin discs. Between each song, he tells about the artists and relates other interesting tidbits concerning style, era, etc. Mike
receives an avalanche of mail from up and down the eastern seaboard, filled with requests for “Special Favorites.” You might
say that WBT Radio has become a thing of the past... at least for five hours a week. The “Original
Sunday Night Hall of Fame”... from 7 'til Midnight.
