Page Six February 19, 1971

RIDING HIGH (Staff photo by Manley)
Cat grappler Rob Benton rolls his opponent from The Citadel.

Matmen Upset Bulldogs 20-16

The Davidson matmen downed The Citadel grapplers for the first time since 1959, according to Charles Parker, Wildcat wrestling coach. The Wildcats beat the Bulldogs 20-16 in a ten-match meet here last Friday. Tonight the matmen face the University of North Carolina wrestlers in Johnston Gym. Tuesday they will tackle the Catamounts of Catawba. According to Parker, “The UNC meet should be close. They are probably...

'Cats Face Endurance Test
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The Wildcats cannot afford to lose another game in the Southern Conference if they want to hold their conference lead into the tournament. The 'Cats are riding an uneasy first place with a 6-1 record. William and Mary looms close behind with a 5-2 conference record. This week the Wildcats will face an endurance contest that will determine whether they maintain their position. They face three conference foes in five days here at Johnston Gym. Tomorrow night the 'Cats begin with Furman. Furman beat Davidson two months ago in Greenville, and now holds fourth place in the conference. Coach Terry Holland said that he could not foresee a repeat of their last meeting. Besides holding the natural homecourt advantage, the Wildcats will have the help of Bryan Adrian. Adrian played only five minutes in the Richmond game and did not play at all in the Duke game last Tuesday due to a cold, but should be back in the lineup this week, Holland stated. After the Furman contest, the 'Cats will face The Citadel. Davidson has not played the Bulldogs this year. The Citadel holds third place with a 4-2 record. “The Citadel has two men who could offer trouble,”...

Thinelads Travel To Big 7 Meet
By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

The Wildcat track team will be competing in one of its toughest indoor meets today and tomorrow, the Big 7 meet at Chapel Hill, according to track coach Heath Whittle. Members of the Big 7, who hold the annual meet, include Davidson, North Carolina, North Carolina State, Duke, Wake Forest, North Carolina Central, and East Carolina. Whittle is sending 15 men into the scheduled events. He stated that the 'Cats' foremost chances of placing are the 60-yard dash with Tom Richardson and the 60-yard hurdles with Ray Swetenburg. Speaking of the meet, he commented, “Of course all the teams except Davidson are subsidized, which puts us at a terrible disadvantage in the first place.” Swetenburg, the 'Cats hurdler, should have his hands full. He will be running against Duke's Jeff Howser. Swetenburg said, “Howser went to the Olympic time trials in 1968 and was leading the high hurdles until he hit the final one. He was hurt all last year but if he is in condition this year he will be very tough.” Richardson, who set a new Davidson indoor record in the 60-yard dash two weeks ago, is also optimistic. Coach Whittle commented that the times this week will very likely be slow.Because the competition will be held in an old gym with a hardwood surface, both Swetenburg and Richardson stated that they did not care to run on the surface. The chances of slipping while hurdling are particularly high. Coach Whittle, though not optimistic about the overall meet, is nevertheless looking for some fine individual performances. Other individuals he cited include Steve Shankweiler, a shot putter, and George Edwards and Howard Boyd, both distance men. This is the last meet indoors until the conference championships on March 6 at V.M.I.

Holland said, "Ledbetter and a guard, Sutor." He said that the defense that the 'Cats have maintained throughout the season should be tested in both of the games. Next Wednesday night, the Wildcats will meet V.M.I. The Keydets should not offer great resistance to Davidson. They now hold last place in the conference with only one win, over Richmond. They were easily beaten by Davidson in their last meeting.

"I suppose they will play better than they did in Lexington," Holland said, "because I can't believe they are really that bad."

Last week, the Wildcats eased by the Richmond Spiders 80-70. The game stayed close until the last minutes when Davidson pulled ahead on foul shooting. High scorer for the Wildcats was Joe Sutter with 23 points. Sutter also held rebounding honors with 11.

Tuesday, the 'Cats were beaten by Duke 64-55. Davidson only held the lead once late in the game, and then by one point. Duke then began a rally that stifled the Wildcats' last surge and went ahead with a quick ten-point lead.

"They were stronger on paper than we are," he said, "but we hope we can pull it out like we did against The Citadel." Parker was a little more optimistic about the Catawba contest. He said that the Catamounts and the 'Cats were very much alike and that he would only predict a close contest for the two teams.

In the meet with The Citadel, the 'Cats held an advantage due to a forfeit to Rick Stansbury in the first match. The 'Cats lost the next three to allow a Bulldog lead of 13-5, but did not lose the advantage during the rest of the meet. Jim Purcell, a 'Cat freshman, beat Jim Williams, the Citadel wrestler who led the Southern Conference last year. Frank Shinn, a 190-pound freshman for the 'Cats, defeated his heavyweight opponent, a 300-pounder. Shinn held control throughout the match.

The matmen have suffered from injuries during the season. During the Citadel meet, Rusty Winchester sustained an eye injury that will keep him out for the next two meets. Earlier in the season, Jack Jacobs injured his ankle and has been unable to wrestle.

George says it’s time to clear out our winter merchandise and make room for the Spring EXPLOSION!

BEGINS THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1971

WINTER SPORT COATS 1/2 PRICE
Group of Ties $2.00
—All Alterations Extra—
Bargains All Over The Store
WINTER SUITS 1/2 PRICE
WINTER SLACKS 1/2 PRICE
Group of Shirts $3.00

Come In Today and Select Yours

THE RED HANGER
Davidson, N.C.