Netters Sweep Conference Tourney

By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The Davidson netmen managed to fulfill the expectations of most of the conference by making a sweep of the Southern Conference tennis tournament held here last weekend.

(Staff photo by Ralston)

FIRST COURT WINNER
Bob Koury returns a net shot in the Southern Conference tourney.

‘Cat Thinclads Run Last In Conference Tourney

By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

The Davidson thinclads, slowed down by injuries to two key performers, sputtered to a last place finish in the Southern Conference meet held last Saturday.

The team managed to garner only 10 points, which, though only one point behind sixth place VMI, was a distant 91 behind winner William and Mary.

East Carolina took second place with 78 and Furman was third with 68.

Suey Kirley grabbed half of Davidson's points as he took third place in the shot put and fourth in the discus.

Other places for the Wildcats were a fifth in the 440 yard relay, Rick Lyon's fifth in the 100 yard dash, and Ray Swetenburg’s third in the high hurdles.

In scoring its comfortable victory, William and Mary men set two of three new records.

Chris Harvey won the pole vault with 16’1” and Ben Helmandollar the 220 yard dash in 21.4.

Tom Malik of Furman set the other with a 14.0 clocking in the high hurdles.

The Outstanding Athlete Award went to Furman’s Lee Fidler, who won the three mile run and then the six mile run in 29:08, qualifying him for the NCAA meet to be held in Washington.

Davidson did not qualify any participants for that meet.

Though naturally disappointed, Coach Heath Whittle said the team performed well.

The loss of sprinter Tom Richardson and distance man George Edwards hurt the team tremendously.

Tomorrow Whittle is taking several members of the team to the North Carolina state meet at Duke University.

Because of the senior comprehensive exams, the team once again will not be at full strength.

Among those making the trip are Swetenburg, Kirley, Ted Ellet in the intermediate hurdles, Howard Boyd in the mile, Edwards in the 880 yard run, and Keith Everett in the long and triple jumps.

This will be the final meet this year for the ‘Cats.

The Davidsonian
May 7, 1971
Page Seven

The Davidson team took titles in six of the nine divisions in the tournament and racked up 23 team points.

Furman held second with 18 team points and two individual wins.

This conference victory made tennis coach Harry Fogleman the first coach in the history of Davidson College to win two conference titles in one school year.

Fogleman coaches the soccer team in the fall, which won its first title this year.

Fogleman is only the second coach in the conference to win this honor.

In the tournament, the heavily favored Wildcats took five of the six individual categories, losing only in the fifth to Johnny Harrison of Furman.

Four of the other Davidson men had to fight off Paladins for the winner's spot.

Bob Koury defeated Howard Hunt of Furman in a hard-fought contest on first court.

Jeff Dumansky also fought a three-set match with his Furman opponent, Dave Ellison, on third court.

Jim Cantrell seemed to have an easier time dealing with Jimmy Duckett of the Paladins. Cantrell won the match 6-0, 6-3, on fourth court, for the shortest contest of the finals.

On the sixth court, Jeff Chetwood downed Eric Witten of the Paladins.

The only Davidson player to face a non-Furman opponent was David Weaver on second court.

Weaver disposed of Phil Gaillard of The Citadel 7-5, 6-2.

The Wildcats did not fare quite as well in the doubles competition, taking only one out of the three contests.

On third court, Hy Lankenau and Jim Cantrell defeated the William and Mary team of Billy Lugar and Eric Scudder.

Davidson's second doubles team, Bill Allen and David Weaver, was eliminated in the second round, and the second court title was fought between Furman’s Hunt-Harrison team and victors David Bell and Gaillard of The Citadel.

Wildcats Koury and Dumansky lost the first court to Dave Holly and Ellison of Furman.

This is the second tournament in two years the team has won.

The Wildcats will lose some strength before next year, according to Fogleman, losing two starters, Chetwood and Cantrell, by graduation and Dumansky by transfer.

(Staff photo by Ralston)
DETERMINATION

Jeff Dumansky demonstrates the style that led him to the number three singles championship.

Every Saturday 8:30 - 2:00

HOMEMADE BAKE GOODS of all kinds

Mrs. Ralph Knox—Main St., in Sadler Bldg. (Just down from the bank.) Phone orders: 892-8564

FABULOUS DINING

International Cuisine

OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA

OPEN 9-8

MONDAY - SATURDAY

We have the Knit Shirts by

Izod
Munsingwear
Jantzen
Van Heusen

with long collars, round necks, mock necks, tank tops, and collarless plackets, from 4.00 to 21.00

Fein Mock & Son
Mooresville, N. C.