(Staff Photo by Campbell) 

RECONSTRUCTING CIVILIZATION
Anthropologist Evans expounds on his archeological theories.

The Davidsonian
October 8, 1971
Page Three

Peace Coalition Completing Moratorium Day Activities

Despite the failure to suspend classes, plans for the peace moratorium activities, scheduled for Thursday, are being completed. Ralph Peeples, spokesman for the campus Peace Coalition, said that Thursday's schedule of events should be “very full, with something going on at all times of the day. We want to crowd a lot into one day, so that the community can engage itself in as much as is possible. There should be something to stimulate the thinking of everyone,” Peeples said.

Two major speakers will be the feature attractions for the moratorium. Peeples emphasized.

Ecuador Art: Made In Japan
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

How would you feel if you were a contented little urchin in Ecuador and some guy told you that the designs which your mother works into her native pottery were taught to her ancestors thousands of years ago by some Japanese fishermen? Probably not too proud, but Charles Evans, of the Department of Anthropology at Davidson, has a plausible explanation.

The first of the Reynolds lecturers this year, Evans fascinated audiences including scientists and professors from all over the state with three days of amazing archaeological findings and anthropological theories. Evans’ most intriguing talk was on the “Transpacific Contact at 3000 B.C.,” in which he spoke about the Japanese fisherman in Ecuador.

Evans’ most intriguing talk was: “Given a similar environment situation in two parts of the world, an accidental introduction of different elements can remain in Ecuador.” Armed with color slides and his personal examination of over 500,000 pieces of pottery, Evans began to develop his theory.

Back in the Jomon period of civilization in Japan, inhabitants living on the islands of Hokkaido (7000 B.C.) and Honshu (9000 B.C.) began the development of a culture which included pottery. These orientals were primarily fishermen, not farmers, and for approximately 5,000 years they refined their crafts, creating characteristic designs for their pottery.

Then sometime about 5,000 years ago (3000 B.C.) a boatload or fleet of fishermen were caught in a storm and thrown at the mercy of the sea. As fishermen, these Japanese were able to survive while ocean currents still present in the Pacific Ocean carried them thousands of miles across water, finally depositing them on the coast of Ecuador.

The sailors found that the Ecuadorian people were living in much the same way as they did in Japan with a similar subsistence level, except that they lacked pottery. The sailors were accepted and introduced this single idea into the local culture. At this point, the theory is entertaining but...

Kinnaird
By BOBBIE BLACKWOOD and MARTHA TAYLOR

What is form? How does one believe in form? What is belief? What is art? What is a Richard Kinnaird? What is a wood beginning?

There we were in Stowe Gallery at the request of our art history teacher, our studio art teacher, and the illustrious campus newspaper, with no idea of what we were doing or how we were doing it.

What we saw was the work of one Richard Kinnaird, a professor of studio art at U.N.C.-Chapel Hill, whose specialty is variety. The show includes works done in the mediums of newspaper collage, cut Masonite, fiberglass relief, and plastic. Everything is a play — of form with form, color with color, and color with form.

His works cannot be called paintings nor can they be called sculpture; what they can be called is off-the-wall reliefs. The cut Masonite works are layered and then colored into intriguing compositional relationships. These are representative of Kinnaird’s early work — but are not to be experienced without knowledge of his future works. The display is a sampling of Kinnaird’s art forms over the years yet it...is not arranged chronologically; therefore, one unconvincing. Next, take a look at some excavations in Valdivia Bay on the coast of Ecuador. These are artifacts, stone figurines, and crude tools in various strata but no pottery. That is, no pottery until you reach strata dated at approximately 3000-3500 B.C. The design and technique involved in the pottery are identical to oriental pottery in Japan developed a few millennia before.

It was emphasized that the speakers would be scheduled around classes so that as many as possible might attend the talks. Ron Young, one of the national directors of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, an inter-religious group of militant pacifists, will speak Thursday morning at 10. According to Peeples, “Young has been militantly active about seeking social change, particularly in regards to the Vietnam War.” Sister Elizabeth McAlister, a member of the Harrisburg 12 accused of attempting to kidnap Presidential aide Henry Kissinger, will speak either that afternoon or evening. Peeples said that the time of her speech is not yet certain, for the Davidson peace group is sharing her expenses with a similar group at UNC-Charlotte, and she will also be speaking there.

Peeples said that tentatively there are plans for continual discussion groups, led by faculty members. Among those professors Peeples mentioned are professors Ernie Patterson, SAdm McKelway, Biglow, and Maloney, Sandy Fred Gaige, and Frank Dave Kaylor. Also, a speaker sponsored by the Young Americans for Freedom will be present on campus. YAF spokesman Bob Morey has indicated that Mike Thompson, a veteran of the Vietnam War and an anti-moratorium leader, will be their speaker.

Peeples said that during at least one hour of the day's activities will be devoted to a workshop on conscientious objection to war, and will be led by several Davidson students who have already been granted CO status. Also, something similar to guerrilla theater, under the direction of several students, will be presented. Peeples said that religious services, under the leadership of Ray Mendenhall, chairman of the Campus Religious Life Council, will also be held.

“We are not simply hitting people with the morality of war and the ethical debate it involves,” Peeples said, “but we are instead presenting related issues as well. The purpose of the moratorium, which is being held in conjunction with nationwide activities of a similar nature, is to stimulate and organize local action against the war among each community across the country,” Peeples stated.

Peeples said that an attempt to have classes for the day suspended was considered, but practical considerations and “sound advice” from certain members of the faculty brought the moratorium committee to decide to forget such efforts.

Exhibits “Off The Wall Relief” moves immediately to the fiberglass reliefs created through the combination of plaster, balloons, fiberglass, and plastic. The observer may notice the movement. As Kinnaird experienced and experimented more, his works became more complex and at the same time more alive. His main interest in all his works is the reinterpretation of forms through color. To him, a line is not important, only form. His works are not bound by external demands but arrived at from the groupings of internal feeling.

Kinnaird doesn’t seem to hide much from himself or from others. He seeks what is pleasurable now and enjoys it. For Kinnaird, it is not so much that he is driven by any creative madness but that his art is play and he happens to be incredibly good at playing. He has a knack for combining the elements of shape and color to make a harmonious or discordant whole. Basically, in talking with Kinnaird, we found that in art he is an “if-it-feels-good-do-it-er.” It comes across in the art itself. Do spend some time in the gallery with his forms. It’s copacetic. (Staff photo by Barnes)

YOU MEAN YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT THIS IS? Richard Kinnaird discusses one of his exhibits on display in Stowe Gallery this week.