Page Eight Alea 19, 1971 The Davidsonian

Friday, February 19
2 p.m. Film: “Incident at Vichy”
8 p.m. Film: “Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid”

Saturday, February 20
10:33 p.m. Film: “Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid”

Sunday, February 21
8:15 p.m. Drama Production: “A Case of Libel”
2:30 p.m. Drama Production: “A Case of Libel”

Tuesday, February 23
10 a.m. History Lecture: Prof. Gerald S. Graham

Thursday, February 25
10 a.m. ROTC Enrichment Program
8 p.m. UCH: John Deland
10 a.m. Reynolds Lecture: Indian Ambassador
8 p.m. Reception: Ambassador Jha
8 p.m. Classical Indian Music Concert

Friday, February 26
10 p.m. UCH: “Southern Feeling”
8:30 p.m. Open House with Dr. Spencer

(Continued from Page 1)
...tion within the dorms, and dorm senators will be passing out the ballots to their halls. There will be no polling booths. SGA Vice-president Bill Alexander, who introduced DuRant’s motion onto the floor, expressed concern over the method of balloting and the 2/3 ruling. “We have enough trouble just getting 2/3 of the student body to vote. This interpretation of the 2/3 vote is absurd, and it would give the senate unlimited power because a referendum would never pass. The method of voting itself has a lot of discrepancies.”

After DuRant’s motion was recorded, a subsequent motion from Sittler to reopen price negotiations with Davis was defeated 17-2. Burney then brought up another motion to censure President Spencer for his statement on Davis. “He is saying on behalf of the college,” Burney stated, “he does not feel his speaker is fit to appear on campus. He has said something that is not in his position to say.”

This motion was also defeated, this time by a vote of 15-2, but another motion from Mark Meza to ask Spencer to explain what he meant when he referred to “Davidson College” in his statement passed by a vote of 10-7. Meza said, “Unless President Spencer clarifies the statement, we will assume that he speaks only for those who compose the faculty and administration.”

Jody Turner capped off the meeting with a resolution to the Education Policy Committee (EPC) to abolish compulsory physical education. Turner feels that the present physical education requirement of 6 terms of instruction is an unnecessary burden which could be compensated for by expanding the intramural and varsity programs. In Turner's proposal, a boycott was included as a possibility for urging the resolution on the student level. “The boycott is in there to make it heavier,” Turner said. “Hopefully we won’t have to use it, and then only...

Golden Leads Discussion On Venereal Disease
By ALEC HOON
News Editor

“Syphilis is very democratic... anybody can catch it.” Thus spoke Ed Golden, a field worker for the North Carolina State Board of Health, to the honorary pre-medical fraternity Alpha Epsilon Delta and interested students on the problems of venereal disease. Golden conducted an informative discussion on all aspects of the problem, highlighted by a film dealing with the diagnosis of syphilis. The talk was directed primarily toward the pre-medical students—the future doctors who would eventually be responsible for treating venereal diseases.

Outlining his job as a field worker, Golden stated that “my assignment is presently in the Charlotte area. I conduct clinics wherever an outbreak of venereal disease occurs. It is also my responsibility to track down possible carriers of the disease from information supplied to me by persons afflicted with venereal disease. This is why doctors must report cases immediately upon diagnosis. Otherwise, it is impossible for field workers like myself to locate and treat those who either contracted the disease from or who infected the reported case.”

Cornell Seeking Possible Developmental Appointees
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

In an exclusive interview with THE DAVIDSONIAN this week, Vice President of Finance and Development C. David Cornell hinted that a major appointment would soon be made to fill the presently vacant position of Director of Development. Since Robert A. Currie is the director of the Financial Department of the College, Cornell felt that there should be a comparable position in the Development Department. These two positions will be directly responsible to Cornell. The Director of Development will primarily be involved in activities concerning fund raising and public relations. “Davidson College is grossly understaffed in...as a last resort. Its purpose is to convey the idea of a time sequence to emphasize the importance of the resolution.” The resolution passed 14-5, and another motion to strike the boycott from the proposal failed 10-7. Turner said he intends to bring it up for further discussion next week.

(Continued from Page 1)

campus as a fraternity it will be a fraternity independent of (Davidson College and it may not use the name of Davidson College.” Terry emphasized that “I didn't say that they could eat off campus.” President Samuel R. Spencer said that his office has “not been approached officially with any request by a fraternity to eat off campus. “It's of course my responsibility to see that college policy is carried out,” Spencer said. “As far as I’m concerned the question is still a hypothetical one.” Spencer said that he hoped that the nationals would work with the administration and stay on campus under the new social system. The proposed action by the Gamms will affect more than just that particular house. At least five other houses will be watching the administrative reaction to the Gamm attempt to operate off campus. Spokesmen for the Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Chi, and Phi Delta Theta fraternities have indicated that their houses are very seriously considering moving off campus and that they are interested in the possibility of setting up eating facilities away from the campus.

Besides the plunge taken by the Gamms, recent actions of the town council should have much influence in this area,” said Cornell. “A 1967 study of schools about the size of Davidson reported that the average school employed five professional fund-raisers,” he said. “It is a proven fact that schools that employ men in a development department repay their investment of salaries several times over.” Cornell said he is still interviewing people for the job. He noted that the job of Director of Development at Davidson is a very desirable position and that a number of people have expressed interest in it.

Concerning the issue of co-education, Cornell said that if Davidson is to retain its present ceiling of 1,000 students, it would be uneconomical for this college to admit women on a full-time basis. “The minute we say ‘women,’ we have introduced a variable,” he said. “If women are to become students here we must review the entire scheme of academic and social life. Coeducation would require more emphasis on the creative arts: drama, music, and art. It would also necessitate a beefing up of courses in the fields of sociology and psychology. Student housing would be another consideration.” Cornell said that at present the issue of coeducation is “kicking around in the minds of various administrators;” however, no formal investigation is planned.

The Vice President of Finance and Development also said that he is concentrating on persuading corporations and foundations to grant money to the college. Cornell and College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. traveled this week to Florida to meet with the executives of a foundation as well as to talk with “special donors.”

CORNELL to make appointment

Fraternities town for the campus, which specify that residential areas must be used for residential purposes only unless a large proportion of the property owners in the area agree otherwise. Also, it is believed that the town council must also act on such a proposal. According to David Grissett, who has been requested by SGA president Danny Clodfelter to study the situation for the SGA Senate, the town has appointed a commission to look into possible ways that it can allow the fraternities to move into residential areas.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd; at Remount Rd.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Where-Rena Marina
Highway 73 - 4 miles from Davidson