Taus, Pikas Take Upsets To End Reign Of Unbeatens

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The Taus upset the Delts and the Pikas beat the SPEs to remove the last two unbeaten teams and tighten
the races in both leagues as IMAC softball ended the regular season.

Jim Hawkins singled in the winning run in the top of the ninth as the Taus eked out a 9-8
win over the Delts Monday. Jack Moore hammered a homer and the Taus erupted for five runs in the third
before the Delts rallied to tie at eight-all after regulation. The Delts gained wins over the “Bastard Snus” 12-8 and
three-run (Staff photo by Doty)

A NEW WAVE IN IMAC? “Bastard Snu” Greg Johnson races the ball to first.

‘Bastard Snus’ Begin IMAC Play

A group of guys on first floor Richardson have formed a softball team and are playing in the IMAC in
place of the Sigma Nus. Due to lack of numbers and interest, the Nus were unable to field a team,
so Dave Scarborough and George Shingles of first Richardson suggested to Scott Beard, Snu IMAC representative, that the hall team
be allowed to fill out the Snu team. This proposal was agreed upon and the “Bastard Snus” (so-called because they
are an illegitimate team) began play.

Actually, of the eleven players making up the core of the team, there are no active Snus, but five former
Snus, two of whom have been active this year. Two players from fourth Belk also play. First Richardson is a
close hall, and as Greg Johnson says, “We have great enthusiasm and team spirit because we organized the team as
good friends.” This type of organization may be the basis of intramural play next year, with the tremendous changes accompanying
the switch to the new social system.

According to a spokesman for the group, “We’re just a group of guys who wanted to play organized softball, and
we’re having a hell of a lot of fun doing it.” The team has not done badly. Its record is
4-4, although officially it is only 2-8, since before this week the team was not recognized by the IMAC and
had to forfeit all its games. The “Bastard Snus” have knocked off Cannon II and East II, and won by
forfeit over the E’s and Pi Kaps. Their only four losses have come at the hands of the top four
teams in League A, the Delts 12-8, the Machis 8-7, the Taus 4-1, and the Sigs 5-1.

In the loss to the Delts on Tuesday, the Delts tallied five unearned runs after two were out in the
third to break open the game. Scott Shipp tagged a two-run homer and Hugh Gaither collected four hits for the
victors. Last Thursday, Johnson and Mike Hyrne, the Snus’ best hitters, rapped four and three hits, respectively, to pace a
9-3 win over East II.

There have been defensive problems, and a lot of mental problems due to lack of experience. But the team hits
the ball well, especially Johnson, Hyrne, and infielders Gary Scibal and Mike O'Malley, and opponents say Russ Merritt is as
good a pitcher as there is in the league, except for John Harper of the Sigs. Also, Scarborough and Beard
have provided strong defense all season.— Slick-fielding stop Beard and Merritt are legitimate all-IMAC candidates. O’Malley, Scibal, Scott Keeter, A.
W. Turner, Jimmy Beamguard, Shingler, and Scarborough round out the squad.

Corak’s East II finished at 9-1, tied with the Sigs, who blasted the Machis 13-6 and the Taus 11-5 before
clipping the Bastard Snus 5-1 Wednesday. Maloney and Harper paced a nineteen-hit John attack which buried the Machis on Monday.
Harper and Chris Giles each had three hits in the win over the Bastard Snus Wednesday. Greg Johnston's home run
was all the losers could manage. The Machis held third at 8-2 with a 14-8 pasting of Cannon II and
a win by forfeit over the Pi Kaps. John Saunders had three hits and three RBIs, Jim Hudson three RBIs,
and Walt Walker homered to pace the win over Cannon II. The Taus are 7-3 and in fourth after wins
over the SAE’s (forfeit) and Cannon II Wednesday.

In League B, the SPEs remain in first at 9-1 with the Pikas (8-2) in second, and the Betas and
KAs finishing strong to nab third and fourth at 7-3 and 6-4, respectively. John Pecorak, Mark Atfeldt, Jack Ballenger, and
George Graff all homered as the Pikas, at full strength for a change, halted the SPEs' seven-game winning streak 13-9.
Tuesday, the KAs knocked the Pikas out of a tie for the lead 6-4 as Bo Wood's baffling delivery silenced
the big Pika bats and Kenny Timmons doubled in the winning run in the last inning. Bob Solberg and Jim
Crouse hit back-to-back homers in the first. The SPEs blanked the Indies 12-0 behind Robin Gray's two-hitter and Buzz Tarver's
home run, and belted the Gamms 13-5 as Jim Cantrell and Phil Croy paced a twenty-hit assault. The Pikas nipped
the Betas 8-4 last Thursday behind Pecorak's round-tripper which helped them to a 5-0 lead. Wednesday, the Pikas whacked Cannon
II 7-3. The Betas nipped the slumping Gamms 8-7 on Earl Ellis’ two-run double in the eighth, edged W-B 11-10,
and walloped East I 7-1 as Jack Scoville smashed a pair of fourbaggers. The KAs have won four in a
row after a stumbling start. Jim Crouse batted in an incredible 11 runs in a 25-6 cakewalk over Cannon I,
and had five hits to lead a 15-11 triumph over the Indies on Monday. Charlie Terrell and Bob Solberg each
had four hits in the win. After shocking the Pikas, the KAs nipped the Gamms 11-10 as Crouse singled home
the winning run in the seventh.

The stage is now set for the playoffs. The tournament format will be much the same as in basketball. The
champion will be decided by final overall win-loss record.

May 1971 - 1972
Davidson College will embark on the new self-selective social system.
1971 - 1972
Basketball coach Terry Holland envisions a return to the Top 20.
1971 - 1972
Davidson's new fundraisers will battle the new economy.
1971 - 1972
And students will continue to make Davidson College.

Follow the news of the entire Davidson College community in The Davidsonian. New, lower subscription rates for off-campus subscribers. A
deflationary bargain in an inflationary age.

Subscription rates:
$6.00 per year
$6.50 per year if you wish to be billed later.

Mail subscription orders to:
Business Manager
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Box 218
Davidson, N.C. 28036
