Che Bavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR MAY 7, 1971

Expanding Exchange

If Governor Scott made a valuable point in his address Monday, it was his comment that Davidson has not fulfilled
its potential. (It is interesting that Scott offered glittering hope but no promise of state funds.) One of the educational
innovations to which the governor alluded can well be the exchange program between Queens and Davidson, if the proposal does
indeed get off the ground. Although a little more local in flavor than the Eight College Exchange Program, the Queens
exchange affords the same educational opportunities. We hope that the Eight College Exchange and the Queens exchange program are just
the beginning of a greater range of exchange programs for students at Davidson.

As an educational opportunity, the idea of the transient or exchange student has a great deal of appeal. To have
a transient student program institutionalized as an exchange program, however loosely or tightly structured, makes it more accessible to students
and easier to administrate. We would hope that Dr. Ostwalt and the faculty will seek to expand the exchange program
to include Johnson C. Smith and Belmont Abbey in the area and eventually push for a federation similar to the
scholarship group to which the school belongs. Such a federation would enable Davidson students to exchange with a broad range
of different colleges.

Town And Gown

One of the most oft-heard of student complaints at Davidson is the cry that there is no opportunity in this
secluded and comfortable little community to work for constructive change. Students feel that there is nothing of significance happening here
to warrant their energies or attentions. Such understanding of the town of Davidson is, however, far from the truth, for
this hamlet is no idyllic situation. There are still racial tensions and suspicions in the “other Davidson,” there is poverty
here, there is a class culture, there are all those problems one encounters whenever he observes any community of human
beings.

If this seems hard to believe, then take an afternoon off one day and walk through the mill community and
the black community, talk with the residents and observe the frustration of living within the shadow of a less-than-benevolent college
community. Then perhaps it will become obvious why the town activities next week are so significant to the students as
well as to the town residents themselves. For these activities offer to all elements of Davidson life the chance to
get together to work for a better Davidson community.

The students, faculty, and administrators of the college community will be presented with the challenge of rolling up their sleeves
and becoming involved with the blacks, the mill workers, and the Main Street merchants of Davidson. And perhaps more importantly,
the college will have the opportunity to begin to repair some of the strained town-gown relationships.

Because of this, we commend these activities to anyone who is interested not only in Davidson but also in the
people here. It’s been said before, but it still rings true: rhetoric is only as good as the action that
follows.

Sign Of Encouragement

The decision of the faculty to continue discussion on the issue of opening their meetings is a sign of hope
for students.

We hope that the faculty will put off a final decision on the open meeting proposal as it is reported
out of committee until the fall when they may have discussion with the students who will be directly affected by
the vote. In assessing the faculty’s decision it is encouraging that they selected the options they did for the Faculty
Executive Committee study. The proposal is the most favored by the students and provides for the fullest student participation in
faculty meetings.

The faculty is to be supported for their willingness to allow students to have a voice in the meetings which
play such a key role in the academic life of the college.

CECIL BURNEY

College Only Cleans Up Campus For Ceremonies

In a brochure prepared for Alumni Day this Spring, there is written the following statement: “Alumni Weekend is the particular
time of year when Davidson dusts the cornices, cuts the grass and generally spruces up for her ‘sons’.” It fascinates
me to see so much effort to clean Davidson up for these special events. Several times each year, when the
college administration gets ready to have one of its big events, we see sudden bursts of activity around the campus.
We see the entire contingent of Davidson's grounds maintenance crew on the scene early in the morning, cutting the grass,
trimming the hedges, clearing away debris, and polishing up the school for the big event.

So far this year, the grounds crew has been called into action on at least four different occasions for a
trustee meeting in the fall, for Parents’ Day, for the Fall Convocation, and for the Convocation which was held last
week. There will be at least three more big occasions for this special effort in the weeks to come: we
will have another trustees meeting this month, there will be anSpecial guests Alumni Weekend on May 21-23, and, of course,
the campus will be cleaned up for Commencement. Some administrators may not admit that they spend special effort and extra
money at times to spruce up the campus for these special events. But, alas, I have discovered an administration statement
which proves otherwise. I wonder what other kinds of cleaning-up processes take place before these big events. I wonder if
administration officials "doctor-up" their Annual Report to the trustees so that the trustees do not get a chance to see
the real problems on the campus. I wonder if speeches scheduled by the Office of Alumni Affairs for Alumni Weekend
are not "doctored-up" in order to keep alumni misinformed so they will continue to give more money. And, further, I
wonder if it is not true during the rest of the year that the administration sometimes does not tell students
the whole story behind the decisions it makes.

If Dr. Spencer and Mr. Cornell had been completely honest, for example, they would have admitted that the reason we
see a 235 dollar tuition increase next year is not just because of rising costs in other parts of the
country. They would have admitted that they are setting up an administrative kingdom on the first floor of Chambers at
a cost of thousands of dollars. Next year, incidentally, the philosophy department members will be moved out and their offices
will be used for administrative offices. And they would have also admitted that at least 80 dollars of that increase
will go to pay for the money which they did not raise this year for the football team.

I contend that we, as students, do not always hear the truth about administrative decisions because many administrators feel it
is important to keep us ill-informed. I, hence, offer a suggestion to the trustees, to the parents of students, and
to alumni: do not be deceived by what the Spencer administration tells you about campus life here. Do not think
that Davidson life is as idyllic as it may appear to you during your visit. Do not think that the
food you are served at fancy banquets is the same as the food which students eat. Leave your cloistered meeting
rooms and seek to develop your own conceptions of Davidson life. Visit the dorms and the other places where students
and faculty members are and see for yourself what it’s like. You may find, as I have, that there are
some good qualities here. But do not be deceived by what the administration representatives say, for they frequently wash-up and
paint over the little cancers which fester in various parts of the school. The administration hopes you won't see those
cancers, but they are there, and as soon as you leave the cancers, though covered up temporarily, will surface again
as the health of the school returns to the condition it was in before you came.

P.S. If you are an alumnus and are planning to attend the dedication of the so-called "new" Edgar Sentelle Dormitory,
do not be deceived. The dormitory is just old East Dormitory with a new plaque.

---

Brewster And McGovern Provide Insight On War

To The Editor:

As one who has for a long time been deeply concerned about the immorality of the war which successive Washington
administrations have imposed upon the Indochinese people, I am greatly encouraged by the position taken by Yale University's President, Dr.
Kingman Brewster, Jr. Naturally, his audience was deeply moved, for he touched a chord that denotes the very essence of
what every true American patriot wants his country to be.

Another voice, this time that of a statesman as well as an intellectual and moral man, U.S. Senator McGovern, in
a television program on the day before Washington's birthday stated: "I regard this war as the most barbaric and inhumane
act that our country has ever committed. I think it terrible that this country has its bombers ranging all across
the face of Indochina, killing innocent men, women, and children by the tens of thousands, paying the people of Vietnam,
Laos, and Cambodia to kill each other and doing all of this in the name of self-determination for them."

The voices of Dr. Brewster and Senator McGovern are the true American voices. Let's accept their advice and begin now
to rehabilitate America physically, intellectually, and spiritually.

Hugh B. Hester
Brigadier General
U.S. Army

In a talk on Alumni Day, February 20, 1971, in Yale’s Freshmen Commons, the President stated: "To my mind the
basic flaw in our Southeast Asian war policy is moral. The policy seems to be shaped and is most often
discussed as though America had no concern for the sanctity of human life as such, as though we cared only
about American lives.

"The reduction of American casualties, even the withdrawal of all American combat troops, does not mitigate our moral responsibility for
the spread of the war; for the indiscriminate bombing of neutrals; for the scorching of forests and villages; for the
massacre of innocents.

"The issue, to me, is not tactical or strategic. It is the moral callousness of the assumption that the body
count doesn't matter as long as they are not American bodies." These are profound words of a dedicated, moral man.
