---

Page Two
November 5, 1971
The Davidsonian

Staff photo by Campbell

AN EFFORT TO BE FRIENDLY? Freshmen feel ignored eating at fraternities.

Independent Study Exam Row Reaches

By TOM BRUCE
Staff Writer

Independent study, the exam schedule, and a proposal on the design of the library spearheaded dissent at Tuesday's SGA meeting.

A recent meeting of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) occasioned a special report to the Senate from senior Jody Turner,
a student representative on the committee. He stated that Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan had clarified the
existing policy on independent courses to allow any professor to offer any course on an independent basis to any individual
who can show just cause. Further, students contemplating study in foreign countries or travel abroad can make arrangements to receive
credit for independent work that they complete off-campus.

Touching on the new physical education reforms, Turner advised students to contact Bevan about discrepancies in the administration of the
new program. Turner said a number of students had complained that certain coaches were observing compulsory attendance.

The dropping of the pre-exam study day and the shortening of the exam period to four days was defended by
Turner in his admission that this change had gone through proper channels without conspicuous student objection. He stated that it
was in accordance with changes made in the exam schedule last spring under self-scheduling. Turner conceded that the new schedule
will bear heavily on the football team, which has a game with the Citadel scheduled for Saturday, Nov. 20. He
reported that when confronted with this liability, faculty members of the EPC had exhibited a “tut-tut” attitude, pointing out that
under old exam procedures students risked all three exams in a single day. Turner said that committee members felt that
students should be more flexible.

Calling for twentieth-century library facilities that harmonize with other campus buildings, Cecil Burney issued a motion to endorse a modern
design for the structure. The motion also called for circulation of a petition to catalog student sentiment on the architectural
ambitions of the campus. Sophomore John Douglas said that he thought many senators might not know enough about modern architecture
or what a “twentieth-century design” would entail to cast a qualified vote. When the motion was tabled, Burney stated that
he would resubmit the motion next week.

The Young Socialist Alliance petitioned the Senate for $100 to bring Linda Jenness.

---

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
CECIL BURNEY
TODD HOBBIE
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
DAVID HANIG

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Photography Editor:
JOHN DAVIDSON

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON
ALEC HOON

Copy Editors:
BOBBIE BLACKWOOD
JAMES HANNA

Contributors this Week:
T. Michael and Frank Sous.

Published weekly at Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of
Davidson College. Address correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

---

Social System Floundering; Freshman Interest Waning

AN ANALYSIS
By TODD EADES
Staff Writer

The plan of the new social system for freshmen is not functioning as well as it was envisioned. Many freshmen
have stopped going down to the social houses, and one freshman dorm has organized a social council. The problem is
that freshmen are not eating at the houses and are not participating in the social life. Dean of Students Will
Terry says, “Things are just drifting.” Few reports of hostility towards the visiting freshmen have been voiced. But apathy on
the part of the houses has been widespread, and this discourages freshmen from returning to the houses. Some freshmen prefer
eating at the Union to eating on the court because they feel the food is better there.

---

Photographers:
BILL BARNES
FRANK ERWIN
PAUL HORWITZ
TOM CAMPBELL

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
TERRY HIRST
STEVE BALCUM

Circulation Managers:
STEVE SHEPHERD
GREG MITCHELL

Assistant Copy Editor:
BILL ELLETT

Ass’t Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER
CHARLIE TERRELL
HOWARD BOYD

---

Specialist candidate for the White House, to the Davidson campus on Nov. 1. Spokesman Steve Cross stated that $150 additional
funding had already been collected from other sources. In other action, the Senate approved chartering for the Davidson Outing Club
and the Young Americans for Freedom. Sara May was sworn in as Senator from Grey House, and $25 was allocated
for payment of dues to the National Student Association (NSA), an action approved by the student body recently in a
referendum.

Also, these freshmen still seem concerned early in the year more with their halls and hesitate to take advantage of
the offerings on the Court. Because of this, Watts has formed a social council of two representatives from each floor
to plan social events for the entire dorm. The council meets once and plans a party after the Nov. 13
football game. The feeling is that they would rather party with friends on the hall rather than with strangers on
the court. Conceived by Jim Brown and Skip Holcombe, the council is not intended to replace the social activities of
the court but to increase unity in the dorm and provide more social outlets for freshmen.

Part of Holcombe's concern is that it is early in the year and freshmen do not know many upperclassmen. But
he also places part of the blame on the court. “The houses need to make an effort to make the
new social system work.” The PAX house, for one, is planning to make their freshmen more at ease. One member
of the house will be assigned to each freshman to introduce them to other members in a type of “big
brother” idea. Other houses have had members talk to freshmen on their halls to encourage freshmen to participate in house
activities. Terry has met with interested freshmen and with hall counselors, and plans to meet in the future with house
presidents. Then representatives of these groups will recommend a solution to the problem.

A possible plan is to have freshmen begin eating at the house later in the term, after key parties to
acquaint freshmen with the houses, and then allowing self-selection. Another plan is to shorten the time a freshman eats at
one house from five weeks to two or three weeks, to allow him to experience more houses. What is being
sought is a means to let freshmen learn the general character of a house and become involved in it. It
is still early to berate the workings of the new social system. Houses are still getting organized and freshmen are
still hall-oriented. No one claimed that the system would come off without a hitch. But it seems that the system
is flexible enough to recognize its faults and take action to correct them.

ARTICLE VI—Faculty and Student Organizations
1. All Faculty and student constitutional documents and all other similar official articles having to do with some element or
aspect of college or campus governance, and all amendments or revisions of any thereof, shall be subject to the approval
of the Trustees.
2. The President shall have the authority either to stay or to suspend the effectiveness of any action by the
Faculty or by any Faculty or student organization, and to remand the matter to the appropriate body or bodies for
further consideration, or to bring it to the Trustees or their Executive Committee for review. Any action of the Faculty
or other bodies requiring the outlay of new or unbudgeted funds of the College must have the concurrence of the
President.
3. The initial chartering, and also the continuance, of any group or organization on the campus shall be subject to
the approval of the President.

JOHN & CARRIE CARNEY
The Hungry House this weekend features John & Carrie Carney who are presently on the College Coffee House circuit. They
sing folk, country, jazz, blues, and ballads. Shows are held at 8:30 and 9:45 p.m. at house No. 12 on
the Patterson Fraternity Court tonight and tomorrow night. (Staff photo by Barnes)
