Page Eight
September 17, 1971
The Davidsonian

Friday, September 17
8:03 p.m. Movie: "Gimme Shelter"

Saturday, September 18
All Day Art Exhibit: Stowe Gallery
2 p.m. Football: VMI, Lexington, Va.
6:30 p.m. Mixer Dinner, Chambers Banquet Hall
7:30 p.m. Mixer Dance, Chambers Lawn
8:03 p.m. Movie: "Gimme Shelter"

Monday, September 20
1 a.m. Film: "If Everything Ever Was True"
6 p.m. Freshman Mixer: Queens
8 p.m. Peace Coalition Meeting, Morrison Room
10 p.m. Christian Fellowship Meeting, Morrison Room

Tuesday, September 21
4:15 p.m. Freshman Cake Race, Soccer Field
5 p.m. Drop Period Ends
8 p.m. Fine Film: "Breathless," Love Auditorium
10 p.m. APO Meeting, Morrison Room

Wednesday, September 22
11 a.m. Convocation, Morrison Room

Thursday, September 23
8:30 a.m. Cross Country: Stone Mountain Road Race, Stone Mountain, Ga.
8:45 p.m. Hungry d: Trilogy, Morrison Room
9:50 p.m. Hungry d: Trilogy, Morrison Room

Friday, September 24
8:45 p.m. Hungry d: Trilogy, Morrison Room
9:50 p.m. Hungry d: Trilogy, Morrison Room

Saturday, September 25
8:30 a.m. Cross Country: Stone Mountain Road Race, Stone Mountain, Ga.
8:45 p.m. Hungry d: Trilogy, Morrison Room
9:50 p.m. Hungry d: Trilogy, Morrison Room

Sunday, September 26
4 p.m. Lawn Concert: Wind Ensemble, Quadrangle

Up ’n ’ Coming
“Gimme Shelter”
Anne K. Shields

Twelve Faculty Members See India During Summer
By THOMAS AINSWORTH
Staff Writer

This past summer, from mid-July to the beginning of September, 12 members of the Davidson faculty toured the sub-continent of
India in a seminar-type program sponsored by the college. The program started in New Delhi with a tour of that
city, followed by a series of lectures over the next three weeks in various areas of interest such as contemporary
Indian religious life, society structure, Indian literature, economy, government, and everything from industry and agriculture to foreign policy. A short
distance away in Agra, the group visited the famous Taj Mahal and Red Fort, and also stopped at several local
villages in the area to view firsthand this unique communal experience.

“This should prove to the Davidson community that India is not just a place where one is likely to get
some horrible Asian disease,” said Instructor in Asian Studies Frederich H. Gaige. “India is not so far away or so
different that the members of the Davidson community cannot come to grips with it intellectually.”

Other accounts from the members of the group held interesting and diverse impressions. Ernest F. Patterson, professor of economics, recalled
witnessing a religious ceremony of the Sufi branch of the Muslims, a sort of “Holy Roller” experience.

Representation (Continued from Page 1)
policies. The Budget, Building and Grounds Committee proposal allows for two students selected by the Senate from the student body.
Student Body President Danny Clodfelter said he was encouraged by the faculty's action on the Admissions pro-

Activity Increases On Court
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

Activity on Patterson Fraternity Court increased this week as freshmen began eating at their assigned houses and as students established
a free-form theater in the vacant SPE house. This was the first in a five-week eating period, after which the
freshmen will be rotated into another house. This process will continue until the latter half of the spring term, at
which time the freshman will self-select into one of the half dozen houses that he has visited.

The numerical breakdown for this first period is as follows: Alpha Tau Omega will receive 31 freshmen; Beta Theta Pi,
34; Kappa Alpha, 32; Kappa Sigma, 33; Phi Delta Theta, 34; Pi Kappa Alpha, 36; Pi Kappa Phi, 23; Rho
Alpha Chi (PAX), 27; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 27; Random House (Sigma Nu), 26.

Dean of Students Will H. Terry said that he was “pleased with the cooperation of the fraternity presidents” and that
he anticipated no problems as far as tension within the houses. Terry said in this first five-week period there had
been an effort to keep freshmen advisor groups on the halls together when possible, and that students on a hall
were often assigned to a house where their hall counselor was eating to give them some connection with the house.
In some cases, however, groups were split up to achieve numerical balance. Terry added that as the program smooths out,
the college may be able to institute the random assignment with the computer.

The number of freshmen eating at any one meal and the days for these meals was left up to the
individual houses.the individual houses to decide. Some have their groups eating only on Monday and Tuesday while other houses have
spread their groups out over the week. The college is paying a flat-rate fee of $1.93 to the houses for
each freshman to eat the two meals each week. There has been some shifting around on the fraternity court since
the institution of the new social system last year. The local SPEs are presently eating in the old Sigma Chi
house, leaving the old house vacant. The Phi Gamm house is also vacant, though still furnished, pending the decision of
nationals over off-campus plans. In a last-minute arrangement last Tuesday night, National Sig Eps self-selected into the old Sigma Nu
house in order to eat on campus. Town zoning laws and the comprehensive fee which will go into effect next
year have discouraged all groups interested in off-campus dining.

The first attempt to set up a function on Patterson Court other than a social one is also in progress
as a group of students work to turn the old SPE house into a theatre. “It's just an experiment,” said
senior Jack Scott, heading the project along with senior Terry Hirst. “We want to provide an added facility for students
who want to write, another outlet for those who want a chance to try something out.” Scott said that the
group already has their own lighting equipment, and that it and the use of the theatre is offered to anyone
who needs it, students or faculty included. There is a possibility that future drama workshops will also be held in
the new theatre. “One of the things that appeals to me is that we have wanted to build houses on
Patterson Court based not just on social compatibility but on mutual interest,” Terry said. The agreement to use the house
as a theatre is good for a seven-month period, and the students in charge are responsible for paying for the
utilities. Scott said that regardless of the agreement he has decided to apply for money from the Activities Fund to
help cover the overhead for the house, which amounts to about $30 per month.

OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY

Hub posal. “What we need to do is to make sure all faculty are there and voting,” he said. “We
also will make sure that the faculty sees all the material from the survey that Mr. White helped us compile.
That’s all we can do.” Concerning the Budget, Building and Grounds proposal, Clodfelter said he understood that the faculty was
concerned about adding students to this committee at a time when the faculty is concerned about financial matters, especially salaries.
“What we will do is to try to persuade the faculty that students on the committee will provide joint action
on student and faculty concerns,” Clodfelter said.

Professor of Chemistry James M. Fredericksen commented that even though at one time almost half of the group was down
with some kind of illness, it wasn’t as serious as it might have been. “I thought I was going to
see massive starvation everywhere, but I didn’t,” he said. “Knowing what I know now, I could face the situation again.”
The matter of filth in the streets was echoed by Professor of Political Science Winfred P. Minter as he described
an incident in Hyderabad where a cow walked into the lobby of their hotel and really didn’t cause a great
deal of concern. Mixed philosophies seemed to abound in the various recollections. One had to be impressed by the fact
that having come from the wealthiest and most affluent nation in the world, one was entering probably the poorest. “It
was an opportunity to see part of the underdeveloped world trying to solve some of their problems,” said Minter. “India
is not really that exotic,” he continued. “The typical man on the street is just about the same as anywhere.”
To Assistant Professor of Psychology Palmer, it was a “combination of both optimism and pessimism. When you see the experiments
and progress they are achieving in agriculture and industry, you can’t help but be hopeful. Yet when the contrast between
the wealthy and the poor becomes so obvious, you can’t help but become pessimistic again,” he said.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.—Wed 9 to 12—Sun. 9:30 to 10:30
Phone 892-2111
Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service—Sundries—Toiletries—Cosmetics—Russell Stover Candies

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
Across From The Hospital In Mooresville
Open 5 p.m. - 10 p.m., Mon. - Sat.
FINE FOODS

We at the Red Hanger would like to take this opportunity to wish all Upper Classmen back to school and
hope that each has a successful year.

Thank you,

THE RED HANGER
Davidson, N. C.
