‘By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor and ALEC HOON Asst. Managing Editor

A socialist, a Nazi, a vegetarian: all of these answered a voter registration poll circulated among the student body last
week by THE DAVIDSONIAN. As far as parents are concerned, Davidson students reflect the national trend of registering along similar
party lines within the family. In overall figures, however, students showed a preference for the label ‘Independent’ rather than the
Democratic or Republican parties of their parents.

What the poll of Davidson students indicated to us was that many students were more interested in voting by judging
the candidates on the basis of their individual merits, rather than by affiliating themselves with a party.

Of the 250 students who answered the questionnaire, 92 or 37% indicated that they had or intended to register as
Independents, 88 or 35% as Democrats, 53 or 21% as Republicans, and 17 or 7% as Undecided. It should be
noted that in states such as Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Ohio voters could register under labels other than
Republican and Democrat.

County Registration Poor
By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor

Although the voter registration for Davidson students is not numerically impressive, it far surpasses any percentages that Mecklenburg County can
boast for its 18-21-year-old population. Out of 18,500 legal residents under 21, the county has registered since January 1 a
total of 2,542 or about 14% of the group. Of these registered, the Democratic party is well in the lead
with 1543 or 61% of the group. The Republicans are next with 623 or 25% of the total, and the
Independents follow with 375 or about 15% of the group. There is also one voter registered with the American Party.

In North Carolina there are actually five different ways in which to register: Democrat, Republican, Independent, American, or ‘No Party.’
This last designation is legitimate, and serves one extra function which the independent category does not apply to. In case
of a primary, Democratic or Republican, a member of the ‘No Party’ group has the option of declaring for one
party or the other on the day of the primary with very little red tape. A registered Independent, however, does
not have this option and cannot participate in any primary.

The American Party, headed by Alabama Governor George Wallace, was established in this state by a petition of 10,000 signatures.
It will remain on the books until the party fails to poll 10% of the vote in a gubernatorial or
presidential election, which it did back in 1968 in the national election.

Elections Board official Bill Culp described the 18-21 voter registration as ‘moderate’ so far this year. He said that it
is natural that most people register with the Democratic party since it does control the state and since its primaries
often decide who will be the next elected official. He commented on the registration of young voters thus far by
saying that more than 2,000 of the 2,542 registered have signed up only since mid-July. This was because the state
did not allow 18-21 year olds to participate in local elections until this July. Only about 500 people had registered
in the half year since the 26th Amendment went into effect January 1.

Culp urged, ‘Students interested in making changes should get involved directly on the grassroots level. Yelling will not change anything.’

In the entire county, out of 200,000 eligible voters, 131,951 are registered. The breakdown is as follows: Democrats, 92,783; Republicans,
34,915; Independents, 3,262; American, 546; No Party, 445.

Drive Mounted Statewide
By ALEC HOON Asst. Managing Editor

Greg Scott, Assistant to the President, is presently engaged in contacting people to serve on a steering committee to organize
voter registration drives in Mecklenburg County. Committee members presently include students from J. C. Smith University, Piedmont College, and UNC-Charlotte.
The first meeting is scheduled for sometime next week.

Similar groups are being formed all over the state. Chapel Hill students are presently engaged in “Operation Interface,” a drive
to register people in the 18-24 year old age group. There was also a group at Appalachian State University to
register in-state students when they enrolled for classes. Many of these committees stem from a conference in mid-August, called the
Student Action Conference ‘71-72, which sought to initiate voter registration. Davidson SGA President Danny Clodfelter and Scott attended this meeting.

Davidson students Bo Phillips and Don Parman are continuing their fight to have an Elections Board decision which forbids students
to register in the district where they attend college overturned. Phillips said that he hoped to circumvent the state courts
because he feared an adverse ruling, and take the case to federal court. The two students are being financially backed
by ‘Common Cause,’ a group similar to the American Civil Liberties Union. Their lawyer is George Daly, an ACLU lawyer.
Phillips remarked, ‘At least fifteen states, including California and Massachusetts, have ruled that students can register and vote where they
go to school.’

The controversy over student registration out of state is also in the news in Charlotte. On WBT radio one night
this week, a discussion was held regarding the issue.

Davidson Voters’ Pick Party Of Parents

Whereas in Pennsylvania, registration was required under one of the two major parties. The statistics themselves would not seem to
lend themselves to broad generalizations about the way the average Davidson student will cast his ballot. Some points can be
made, however. In the Davidson poll, 62% of the group were either registered in the same party as their parents
or unaffiliated with any party as their parents were. Conversely, 38% of the students were registered in parties other than
those of their parents or unaffiliated when their parents were affiliated.Parents were members of a specific party. As the poll
relates to parents, the group of students registered as Independents provide the most interesting statistics. Of those students registered as
Independents, 56% of their parents are either registered as Republicans or as Democrats. Of this 56%, 30% of the parents
are Republicans, and 16% are Democrats, leaving 10% of the parents in which couples consist of a Republican and a
Democrat. The balance shows that 44% of those Independent students have parents who are also Independents, which is less than
a simple majority of the Independent group. From the above, we see that a large minority of students, primarily sons
of Republican parents, have broken family party lines to register as Independents in order to cast their votes for the
individual rather than the partisan group. Approximately two percent of the registered students have switched from the partisan group of
their parents to another partisan group. That is, three of the students who answered the poll are registered Republicans where
their parents are Democrats, and two students with Republican parents are registered Democrats. This small percentage of party switching gives
only a light indication of a tendency of children of Southern Democratic parents to register with the other party because
the Republican party offers a more conservative platform in national politics. This ideological shift (See DAVIDSON, Page 5)

Absentee Voting: An Analysis
By ALEC HOON
Asst. Managing Editor

The absentee ballot is a deterrent to those students who wish to exercise their voting rights. Students should be permitted
to vote in the election district where they attend college. The reasoning behind this logic is that the amount of
paperwork one has to fill out to get an absentee ballot could effectively discourage many students from voting, who otherwise
might have done so if it only required going to a polling station to vote. Take, for example, the procedure
to get an absentee ballot in Pennsylvania. (It must be done before every election to get a ballot for the
election.) Before the election, one must go to the board of elections and complete a form requesting that an absentee
ballot form be sent to one’s college address. Presumably, if one is at college at the time preceding the election,
someone else must pick up the form and mail it to him to fill out. They cannot complete it for
him. Upon receipt of this form, the board will send him another longer form to answer. After completing this and
mailing it back, one receives an absentee ballot. It is amazing how few people will bother to go to the
polls to vote. It would be hard to imagine how many students are going to take the time to file
for an absentee ballot in Pennsylvania.

On top of this, in some states in certain elections, one cannot vote by absentee ballot. In North Carolina, for
example, one cannot vote in the primaries by absentee ballot. Nevertheless, at the present time, in all of about fifteen
states, out-of-state college students attending college in that state will be forced to vote by absentee ballot. The only hope
for these students is that through court cases in which individuals appeal the ruling on student residency requirements, the present
rulings will be overturned. However, those opposed to this would cite the argument that such a change would permit students
at large colleges and universities to control many of the surrounding local elections. This simply would not be the case.
As College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. remarked, “We are a small community in which students might outnumber the local
voters.” But fears that students would “take over the town’s direction” are unfounded. “Students are individuals enough to split on
issues in the town just as they do on other issues,” he said. Two Davidson students are presently appealing the
ruling made in North Carolina by Alex K. Brock, the Executive Secretary of the State Board of Elections, that students
are “eligible to register and vote in the county or state of his legal residence only.”

The Davidsonian Report week, the company broadcast an editorial opposing the enfranchisement of students in areas where they are only
temporary residents, such as a college campus. The editorial warned against the danger of a “transient student body” which could
overrule a local population on bond issues that only the local people would have to finance. The editorial granted the
right of students to vote in their home towns or in cases where they had established local residence and paid
property taxes. Yet the editorial concluded: “But just because a lot of students don’t like the local mayor or think
there should be acres upon acres of additional parks doesn’t give them the slightest right to vote the parks out
or vote the parks in. They themselves won't be around much longer to feel the effects of either. But the
permanent residents will, which makes it obvious that the running of the town should be left to the people who
stay there, work there, and pay their taxes to keep things going.” Dr. John Robbins, Professor of History at UNC
Charlotte, responded the following night to the editorial, refuting the argument of “transience” as applicable to plenty of voters out
of college. He pointed out that the 1970 census counts students as residents of their university communities. Robbins concluded: “It
is important that the young voter take an active interest in the affairs of his community as he defines it.
Maybe if we allow young people meaningful participation in local government, they will see the importance of seeking—and indeed will
seek—solutions to problems on a local level rather than constantly looking to the federal government. That’s a result I'm sure
WBT would applaud.”
