Vines Bee ae. Sidelines; with JOE EARLE: Sports Editor:

IT IS COMMON KNOWLEDGE that Davidson's varsity teams have not fared as well in the last two or three years
as the powerhouse Wildcat teams of the past. Davidson’s football, basketball, and track teams have almost dropped out of the
national scene altogether. What is the burden holding down the potentially fine teams Davidson has fielded in all varsity sports
over the past few years? The Southern Conference.

Davidson has become so caught in the quagmire of Conference competition that the Wildcats have all but sunk from the
sight of the eyes of national competition. The best method Davidson could presently employ to improve their situation is to
drop out of the Southern Conference. This would not be an innovative or radical move. Like most other programs adopted
at this college, the act of becoming an independent in varsity competition has been tested and proved at other schools,
notably the University of South Carolina.

USC DROPPED OUT of the Atlantic Coast Conference when they felt that they were being unfairly hampered by that Conference's
basketball tournament. To gain a berth in the national basketball playoffs, USC would have to win the ACC tourney, something
they were consistently unable to do. Davidson's situation in the Southern Conference is very similar. Last year, Conference-leading Wildcats were
edged out in the tournament by the Furman Paladins. The Paladins, as winners in the tournament, represented the SC in
the national playoffs and were cut to pieces by Fordham. The tournament will be stacked against the Wildcats this year.
It is being held in Greenville, S.C., Furman’s home, instead of the neutral ground of Charlotte. It will take a
monumental effort for the ‘Cats to wrest the crown from the Paladins on their home court. Without having to overcome
the block of a Furman-oriented tournament, the Davidson cagers would fare much better in the national rankings.

DROPPING OUT OF the Southern Conference and becoming an independent would be of great advantage to the Wildcats in other
sports also, especially soccer, football, and tennis. Freeing the football team from a Southern Conference schedule would help their record.
The gridders have done poorly in conference competition over the past two years, winning only two games. Without the burden
of having to schedule SC giants, the gridders could settle down to a more amiable schedule, facing teams like Wofford,
Presbyterian, Bucknell, and Duke. An improved season record on the football field would greatly enhance the prestige of the team
and thus help team recruiting and help raise alumni donations to both the college and team.

SOCCER IS ANOTHER SPORT that has much to gain from the loss of the Southern Conference. The Conference is not
yet well-respected in national soccer circles. Winning the SC crown has little or no value in the consideration for invitations
to the NCAA playoffs. If Davidson’s schedule was not held back by the necessity of playing SC teams, the ‘Cats
could tackle real powerhouse soccer teams and improve their recruiting and chances for a playoff bid.

The same arguments could be presented for the tennis team. Although the net season is somewhat longer than those of
other varsity sports, much of Davidson’s court time is wasted playing conference teams. A season free of the Southern Conference
could greatly improve their chances for a national bid, and Harry Fogleman could easily become the first coach in Davidson’s
history to win a national title.

There has been some question about how the change to an independent status is going to affect South Carolina. As
has been shown this year, the Gamecocks have not suffered, outside of minor scheduling problems, from the rejection of their
conference. The USC football team fared as well as expected and the ‘Cock cagers face a stronger and more diverse
season than ever before.

DAVIDSON COULD BENEFIT GREATLY from the move to independence. The Southern Conference no longer meets the needs of the Wildcats
as a device for athletic organization, and Davidson needs to move to better hunting grounds. It is with these arguments
that we pick up the cry of “Drop the SC! And, thank you South Carolina for the example.

The Davidsonian: December10, 1971 Page Seven

Adrian: From ’Cat To Cougar?

“Goodbye Wildcats. Hello Cougars!” was the tune sung by Brian Adrian this week. According to a press release from the
front office of the Carolina Cougars of the American Basketball Association, Adrian will join the squad during the Christmas holidays.
The announcement ended speculation as to Adrian's returning to play for the Davidson Wildcats this season. Plagued with knee troubles
last year and academic difficulties at the start of the term, the talented 6-3 New Yorker attended Gaston College to
remedy his academic situation, and he has been working to strengthen his knee.

“Despite what everyone says, the knee feels about normal,” Adrian explained. Reactions to the signing of Adrian were mixed. Wildcat
coach Terry Holland was understandably chagrined at Adrian’s decision to turn professional. “Brian would have been a steadying influence on
young players, and his height and overall team play could have transformed our good team into a great one,” Holland
lamented.

Tom Meschery, coach of the Cougars, was understandably pleased about the signing of Adrian. “When I took over the club,
I told them that it takes defense to win games. Brian Adrian will definitely be an asset to us in
this respect. He’ll get his points, but we’re mainly interested in his tenacious defensive ability.”

Adrian's arrival to the ABA prompted New York Nets guard John Roche to exclaim, “I can’t wait to play the
Cougars now that they have Adrian! I’ve admired him for a long time, and it will be a thrill to
compete against my lifelong idol.”

There is some question among experts as to whether or not Adrian will be able to crack the ironman lineup
of the Cougars. The Cougars’ top guards average about 43 minutes each game. Tom Meschery and Adrian are expected to
respond to the buzzer. “We’re giving us major break offensives, keeping Tom in the squad for a few seconds, but
I feel that he can dominate the league in a few years,” Meschery mentioned.

Adrian is excited and confident. “I don’t see why not. I’m ready for the beginning of the win, but I’ll
probably be starting in the next few weeks. I see this as a chance to make an impact on the
ABA as another former Davidson man, Mike Maloy. By joining the Cougars, I’ll be able to help them at the
gate when all my fans from Charlotte and Gastonia come to see me play,” Adrian concluded.

A Davidson spokesman announced that the Cougars had purchased all the left-wing autographs from Brian.

Do not squander time; for that’s the stuff life is made of.
Benjamin Franklin

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what “low net cost” really means.
Hal Mapes Jim Roy 892-1467 892-1424
ROBERT T. STONE District Agent

HOUSE DESIGNS FOR INDIVIDUAL NEEDS

BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET “It's Incomparable”
Sandwiches Pizza Sundaes 50 FLAVOR SHAKES FABULOUS DINING International Cuisine OPEN KITCHEN 1316 W. Morehead

PIZZA GUS'S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

If you are tuned with the ear... Dorsey... wore white bucks Dorsey’s access... Sweet & Temperature, and WSET... most interesting
five-hour show... let your radio blare just all the 1965. Association, and Vegas... and today Chicago, BIG 5H Fans... Nostalgia
Presley (“Love Me Tender”)... so rare by Jimmy... PItx shirts, peg pants, or tan records; later, the Elvis... then you
“Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame”... invading fashion, art, now invades the world of music, far back as 1950. Mike
Ivers, Music Director of WSET, and he does far more than spin discs. Between each song, he tells about the
artists and relates other interesting tidbits concerning style, era, etc. Mike receives an avalanche of mail from up and down
the eastern seaboard, filled with requests for “Special Favorites.” You might say that WSET Radio has become a thing of
the past... at least “Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame”... from 7 till Midnight for five hours a week.
