Display Offers Optical By Frank Soos

A veritable retinal riot! Yes, that’s the current artwork on display in Stowe Galleries. Stowe Galleries are located in the
Cunningham Fine Arts Building, for the benefit of those 85 percent or so of you who have never found your
way before. The artist responsible for the dazzling colors you'll see in Stowe is Anne Kesler Shields of Winston-Salem. She
is a graduate of Hollins College and The University of North Carolina at Greensboro. Her work has been shown nationwide
in such shows as New Directions in Color Print-Making, presented by Associated American Artists in New York City. Internationally, she
has been represented in the Musee d’Art et d’Histoire in Geneva, Switzerland as well as in the U.S. Pavilion at
Expo 20, Tokyo.

Mrs. Shields’ medium is silk screen and her technique is dots, nothing but dots. But those dots can drive you
wild. A black and white print will expand and contract before your eyes — dots grow larger and smaller. Sometimes,
the colors change before your eyes. Don't rush through the show; stare at each print from across the room, watch
it move. Don't look too long, it’s like looking into the sun — turn away and you'll find the print’s
image is etched on your retina. After you've driven yourself dizzy from afar, take a closer look at each print.
You'll see that the two colors represented interact with each other, fight each other. Paintings throb because your eye cannot
choose between the two colors. At other times, two colors can interact to produce the appearance of a completely new
and different hue. Yet most of those dots are white in prints that your eye will be reading as pale
blue or grey.

For the scientific-minded, this aspect of color theory, quite a far cry from the good ol’ junior high science color
wheel, has been investigated mainly by an artist named Josef Albers. His work chiefly shows that a color on a
white background just isn't the same when it’s thrown in with different hues. Throw in some dots and you've got
instant confusion.

There's a print in the lobby of the union for those of you who may feel that a trip to
Cunningham is too risky right off. There’s also an Anne Kesler Shields print available for rental through the college art
rental program. If you feel like you must have one for your very own, the prices are very reasonable for
an artist of Mrs. Shields’ standing, ($15 to $65). Check with Herb Jackson for prices on any specific painting. Drop
by and see the show; it'll be up until September 30. Give your optic nerves a workout. When you leave,
you'll have a hard time remembering which dots were yellow and which were orange when you came in the door.
Or maybe you can step into a closet and take another look at that image that keeps sticking in your
eye.

Blue Sky Report Brings High Flying For Faculty

Recently in Raleigh I attended a meeting at which a member of the Board of Higher Education made this observation.
“Two schools have just recently revised their curriculums. One was a private institution, the other public. The educational revisions of
both institutions consisted of going from a semester system to a quarter or trimester system and instead of requiring specific
courses, requiring courses in a particular discipline, allowing the student to elect the courses from that discipline.” After a brief
pause he continued...

Academic Involvement: No Excuse For Apathy

After two weeks back at school the newness has worn off even for freshmen, summer has departed from most students’
minds. Emphasis is now placed upon either studying for reviews, writing papers or upon plans for weekends to come. In
other words, Davidson’s routine has begun and Davidson mind patterns are set.

The first two sentences of this column could begin a sermon on any of a thousand different subjects. This column,
of course, will deal with the most important one, that is the unfair position that a student can take within
his society. Having spent last year in France under Davidson’s JYA program I can from experience say that the students
who can most easily slip into this unfair position are the Junior Year Abroad students. They live in a world
unlike that of anyone else. They are Americans who can pretend that they are not Americans. They can sit in
their rooms in France, Germany or Spain reading “Time” or “Newsweek” and pass judgment on the world, and in particular
their country, without keeping in mind the fact that they are a part of that which they are judging. They
can even come home and continue exempting themselves from their society’s problems. However, although JYA students may be more susceptible
to this trap of self-deception, the students on the Davidson campus are by no means immune.

It is all too simple after returning to campus to exempt oneself from the world outside the Davidson city limits
and sit in the judgment seat over...

Vulgarity In Allen Column Offensive To Workman

To The Editor:

I cannot help wondering why the vulgarity was included in the otherwise excellent, perceptive, instructive, and valuable column by Bobby
Allen in THE DAVIDSONIAN of September. I believe that the vulgarity was not only offensive to many readers (as it
was to me) but that it also detracted from the persuasiveness of the message. I am not requesting that you
publish this letter, although you certainly have my permission to do so (or to publish only the first paragraph).if you
prefer). I am writing because I wish to urge you to consider including in your editorial policy the avoidance of
unnecessary offensiveness. W. G. Workman Davidson College

looking at the world without realizing oneself to be a part of all the mess that one reads about in
the paper or sees on the evening news. The fact is that being a student on a campus in any
nation puts a person in a very demanding position. Rather than only giving the right to stand in judgment, the
position of student also demands that a person strive to understand what is going on around him, associate himself with
the problems as a member of a society that produces such problems, and act in response to this association. The
privilege of being a student rather than working for $1.60 an hour in some ditch demands a responsibility. It is,
of course, a fact that while on the Davidson campus there is relatively little opportunity for active involvement to any
great degree except in infrequent circumstances. Academic involvement alone inhibits activism to a degree. But academic involvement cannot be an
acceptable excuse for stepping into the trap of seeing oneself as a being aloof from his fellow humans who with
him make up a society in which problems abound. Whether or not we are students at Davidson, each one of
us is a member of a racist society, a polluter in a polluted environment, and at least a supporter of
a warring nation. To exempt oneself from it all is a dream.

continued with a chuckle and sarcastically added, “And they have called these changes educational innovation.” When questioning him afterward, I
tried to draw out of him the names of the schools he had mentioned. I even went so far as
to suggest that Davidson might be the guilty one. He refused to confirm or deny my charge, but I was
left with suspicion that his chuckle may have been directed at Davidson.

The Blue Sky Report was the hopeful panacea for the “dull and unimaginative” educational program that the Visiting Committee of
the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools found at Davidson. Many felt that the Blue Sky would give new direction
to the college’s educational system and provide new and exciting opportunities for students. The major thrust of the Blue Sky
Report was to provide flexibility in the student’s educational program. The flexibility was achieved through “a new calendar, a provision
for area requirements... a three-track plan..., and by the proposal of an Honors College.” Along with these devices were proposals
for a multi-media learning center, an Asian study program, and a career/service program. All of these pieces were to mesh
into a structure that would give education at Davidson a new look, a look of innovation.

For the most part, the new look is the old system with a new name. Independent study courses are nothing
more than a course with a free cut policy and no lectures. Any course with a free cut policy would
be an independent study course for the student is still responsible for the material covered in the course. The new
3-3-2 system means that instead of covering the material in a course, say organic chemistry, in two semesters or thirty-two
weeks, the student must master the same amount of material in two quarters or twenty weeks. Fallen by the wayside
are the area examinations, which were supposedly to provide the student with incentive to do outside reading in each of
the four areas. (More examinations for the student, a truly “innovative” idea.) In the place of area examinations, we now
have Extended Studies. This program has perhaps the most potential for being an alternative to classroom learning. Extended Studies gives
the student an opportunity to design an educational experience which is valid for him. Extended Studies may be the closest
idea to educational innovation now in operation at Davidson.

Of the other programs mentioned above, we now have a good Asian study program, an operating Honors College, a career/service
program that is just getting underway this year, and a learning center which probably has not even reached the drawing
board stage. So what has Davidson really accomplished with its “new” Blue Sky curriculum? An indicator of the answer to
that question is found by the length of discussion of advantages found in the Blue Sky report. The advantages to
the students needed only one-half a page, but the advantages for the faculty needed three pages. The students received a
philosophical brush-off on how the new curriculum would make “education more relevant to his times.” The faculty received a discussion
on how this new program would not add to their workload. The Blue Sky was nothing more than an attempt
to smooth over the rough spots of those whose pride had been hurt by being called “dull and unimaginative.” The
Blue Sky provided very little innovation and very little change in the educational process at Davidson. The student has not
received anything new and exciting in education at Davidson. The student may have flexibility, but the flexibility lies in manipulating
an old system with the new name. Perhaps the only comment that can be made about educational innovation at Davidson
is a sarcastic chuckle.

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that
week. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.
