‘PAINFUL TRANSITION’ New Social System Hits Shoals Of Apathy, Skepticism January 22, 1971 Page Seven Random Assignees Complain Of Cold
Shoulder

AN ANALYSIS: By ALEC HOON

The new Davidson social system does not seem to many to be the panacea for remedying the fraternity system as
the trustees evidently had hoped. In the first two weeks of operation, there has been a general, though by no
means universal, feeling of dissatisfaction with the way that the random assignment has worked out.

Many random assignees have been unhappy with the way that they have been treated at their respective houses. Daryl Douglas,
matched to the Kappa Sigma house, stated, “Most of the people I've talked to have been ignored at their houses.
I think that this has been true for me at Kappa Sigma." Charlie Parks, hall counselor and member of the
Committee of 18, amplified this feeling, “The lack of interest by the majority of fraternities has been disappointing. But I
would add that in the long run, this won't hurt the success of the social system; it will only make
the transition more painful for everyone involved.”

There have been some instances of harassment of freshmen at particular fraternities. One house took food away from freshmen before
they had finished eating. Another house did not serve food to some of their random assignees. Many freshmen said that
they felt they were being purposely ignored and made to feel uncomfortable. As one Sigma Nu assignee who wished to
remain anonymous complained, “The guys are nice, but they don't seem to go out of their way to make me
feel at ease."

There were also those who felt that there was much merit in the new system, and that the fraternities were
making a genuine effort to accommodate them. Freshman class president Bill Ralston expressed the opinion that while the reaction to
the new system was varied, most freshmen thought that “it was just okay.” He added that “much of their reaction
depended on how friendly the upperclassmen were at the various houses, and how far they went out of their way
to help the assignees.” Hal Whitworth, assigned to the Phi Gamma Delta house, best summarized the reaction of those who
were satisfied with the new system thus far when he said, “I have thoroughly enjoyed myself when I have been
at the house. While the brothers have not done any somersaults to greet me, they have gone out of their
way to introduce themselves, and were very considerate.”

Dean of Students Will Terry said that he had not been made aware of any major problems. He expressed the
hope that students would not feel reluctant to inform him of the difficulties they have experienced. “If things are not
going well, we need to know about it," he said. Terry admitted that there have been problems in financial agreements.
“Some fraternities do not feel they are getting enough financial support from the college for their random assignees. We are
presently trying to work out these problems," he affirmed.

In trying to reduce the complications involved in the transfer to the new social system, Ran Coble is now forming
a committee to solve any problems and to answer any questions about the new system. What the majority of freshmen
seem to want is a compromise whereby both the fraternities and the eating clubs would be allowed to remain on
campus. As SAE pledge Jim Dorsett stated, “I think that there is a very sizable group of students who do
not favor the new system. Even some of the participating freshmen do not seem overly excited. Perhaps some sort of
compromise could be worked out in which the sessions wishing to continue fellow-ing the old system would be WELCOME? allowed
to do so and remain on campus, while the others could work with the college plan.” (Staff Photo by Doty)

Freshman assignee Kenneth Williams dines at the Pika house.

WDAV Assesses Problems, Hopes
By DOUG BROWN
Staff Writer

Despite a financial crisis and a failure to provide “new services,” the management of WDAV optimistically looks ahead to becoming
more involved with educational programs and classical music to supplement its present pop repertoire.

“I am actually disappointed in our accomplishments,” said Ed Dobbs as he reflected on the activities of WDAV. He pointed
out that the station has been hampered by money woes, but that this did not really excuse the fact that
WDAV has not provided any new services. “Anybody can listen to another station and get the same thing. WDAV is
presently operating in violation of its constitution, for it is not disseminating educational material. WDAV was not established to play
as much popular music as it does now.”

WDAV is owned by Davidson College, and it falls under the Learning Resources committee. Its chairman, Dr. Hopkins, is also
the chairman of the board of WDAV. Since WDAV is not mentioned in the SGA Constitution, WDAV will have to
run the election of the station manager separate from that of SGA elections, although they will be held at the
same time.

The monetary difficulties of WDAV have affected the quality of WDAV, Dobbs added, and it is supported by grants and
contributions. $1500 was received from the college this year, but Dobbs said it was not enough. WDAV applied for a
share of the activities fund because other organizations are supported by it. Dobbs said he was upset that the station
received only about $1300 from this fund, or approximately 3% of the pie. “It’s been a real struggle to make
ends meet, and we really depend a great deal on commercials,” he said.

Dobbs sees some changes for WDAV because he hopes to see it go FM in the near future. “I can’t
mention any names, but some foundations have indicated that they will be willing to finance this change.” The administration has
expressed interest in WDAV going FM, and Dobbs has received tacit assurance that the college will contribute financially to this
venture. “This would not increase the costs of operating WDAV that much,” Dobbs commented. There are presently no plans to
continue AM, and there will be no commercials.

Skip Smoke will be working on college FCC applications and funding, and Dobbs expects to see firm progress by the
Spring term. Unfortunately, licenses are difficult to get because there is a lot of red tape. However, it will not
be difficult to convert the present facilities. New problems will have to be faced, and as an example, Dobbs cited
the need for paid part-time professional help in operating an FM station.

WDAV would be allowed to reach Charlotte or it would not go FM at all. The Presser Foundation of Philadelphia
has already given WDAV $2000 for classical records. Dobbs wants more emphasis placed on the educational aspect of the station.
In the past, this has not been done because the equipment or personnel were not available. Currently, a production studio
is being constructed and this should help to rectify the situation.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 A.M. to 10:30
Phone 892-2111
Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Muthers Coffeehouse Theater
1225 Central Ave.
Phone 376-7100
Folk Music, Blues, Drama
Cold Beer - Open 7 nights a week 6:30 to 12:00
Rock Bands Sunday only 1-5
