Page Two December 10, 1971

The Bavihacntas

Kelton, Walls Experiment With Skinner Locked Doors

Davidson psychology professors John D. Kelton and Russell E. Walls have published an article based on data gathered at Davidson College in the prestigious Journal of Experimental Psychology. The article, "Walls’ Door Theory," is based on five years of experimentation under controlled conditions on the Davidson campus.

Kelton explained the situation as "the locked door-unlocked door experiment. We were testing the strength of place learning phenomena as opposed to response learning."

Walls explained the actual experimental situation. "We used the standard Skinner type .68” door. The sites of the experiment were selected to avoid biased results, we used the union, the library, and Chambers Building, but the doors were randomly selected. We never did see any SAE’s though. As you entered the buildings, the left door was always locked; the doors were the manipulable variables."

Kelton indicated that the purpose of the study was to determine the behavioral set. "We wanted to see if the students could be programmed to always go to the right door whether it is locked or not. You know, after five years we got a lot of laughs out of the experiment; it was kind of funny to see students getting frustrated and banging into doors."

Kelton indicated that the two may team with Edward L. Palmer of the Davidson psychology department in a follow-up study. "We thought that it would be interesting to lock both doors and see if we could just maybe create experimental neurosis in college students. It's a lot like the Masserman study (1943) except that we’re using students instead of cats. Although you might say we’re using 'Cats ourselves."

The two have been asked to write a popular version of their article for Psychology Today. Walls indicated that he was quite receptive to the idea. "I’ve seen the picture that will go with the article, it's just a great picture."

The Walls’ Door theory seems assured a place in the annals of psychology. Kelton said, "It's important as a piece of theory, synthesizing Freud's concept of infant sexuality and Skinner's Beyond Freedom and Dignity. It should generate a great deal of research. Besides that, we have found the results highly significant, P less than .01."

Kelton and Walls earlier received the Heyward V. Simpson What in the Hell Did You Give Me This For award.

First Prospect

Academic Vice-President John M. Bevan announced the signing of Davidson's first academic prospect of the 1971-72 recruiting season yesterday. John V. Calliano, an English instructor at Cleveland's powerful Carroll High School, signed a letter of intent to join the Davidson English faculty in the fall of 1972.

"John is a super English teacher and a super young man," said Bevan. "We think that he will be a real asset to our program. I believe the students will really enjoy hearing him perform."

Calliano had been recruited by at least 40 schools before narrowing his choice to Davidson, UNC, and UCLA.

Bevan indicated that the recruiting season was far from finished. "We would still like to get a pair of fast-rising young sociologists. Everyone is looking for the big man in political science and we think that we have a great chance at several of the best available."

College Gets The Axe

By DAVID HANIG
News Editor

The Honors College will cease operations at the end of the current academic year, according to Dean of the Honors College Frontis W. Johnston. "The faculty of the Honors College and I have been re-examining the need for an Honors College in the light of the first term's performance and we have decided to end the program," Johnston said in an interview Tuesday.

"Judging from the results of our study, it appears that some of the students involved really benefit from the program, but the majority appeared to use the program to reduce their course load. It's a shame that the few ruined the program to the point that we felt that we could not continue, but we have to maintain our standards," Johnston explained.

"The concept of the Honors College appeared to be highly attractive, but when it came to implementing it, it showed that the vast majority of students cannot handle independent study, even when those students have displayed a high degree of motivation in the past.

"There were just too many opportunities not to do the level of work necessary to make the idea of the Honors College a practical reality. We did not like to do it, but it had to be done."

Cohen To Lecture

Alonzo Q. Cohen, noted Paraguayan philosopher, will highlight an Honors College symposium on linguistics and semantics Dec. 13-15. The programs will be...presented at 8 p.m. in the Carolina Inn each evening.

Advertising Manager: WHIT WHITWORTH
Assistant Copy Editor: BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY
Ass't Sports Editor: A. W. TURNER
CHARLIE TERRELL
HOWARD BOYD
Cartoonists: J. B. FAWCETT
TERRY HIRST
STEVE BALCUM
Circulation Managers: STEVE SHEPHERD
GREG MITCHELL
Photographers: TOM CAMPBELL
FRANK ERWIN
PAUL HORWITZ
JOE RODRIGUEZ

more, Lucretius, Alonzo Cohen, The Holy Spirit, Grantland Rice, Norman Mailer, St. John of the Cross, Erma Bombeck, Jerry Mathers as the Beaver, and a cast of two.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

In addition to Cohen, spending a year's sabbatical from the University of California at Berkeley, Davidson professors Earl MacCormac and John Young will also participate. Cohen, a close personal friend of MacCormac’s from undergraduate days at Yale University, is the author of a large number of scholarly works including "A Differential Semantics for Syntactical Organization," "Linguistic Analysis in Primitive Rainfall Cultures," and "The Chinese Method of Kite Construction." In addition to his years on the faculties of Penn, Brown, and Berkeley, Cohen has served as a presidential troubleshooter in the Federal Bureau of Language and Education. A Rhodes scholarship winner, Cohen is still a nationally ranked handball player. Cohen has also been rumored as a possible successor to Jose DeCarlos, the late Paraguayan delegate to the United Nations. Cohen is a familiar face to the UN, having served as an authority on third world educational development over the past seven years. Cohen will address several philosophy classes during his three days on the Davidson campus. His address to the symposium will be "I and You and It and What Is," a linguistic approach to aesthetics. The symposium will follow a discussion format. Sherry will be served.

Johnston declared, "I do want to make perfectly clear, however, that the Carolina Inn can still be used by the student body for meetings and for lectures and other such activities. At this point, I think that this would be the best use of the building." Johnston said, "I think that these changes can be implemented without too much disruption of the College's resources."

Coeducation Plan (Continued from Page 1)

"Good faith," he said. Perhaps the key point of the proposal is the merger of Queens and Davidson in the space of three years' time. Queens has agreed, pending approval of the proposal by the Davidson Board of Trustees and their own board, to admit no freshmen for the 1972-73 school year. Queens will maintain their operations for the next year, but will phase their two remaining classes into the Davidson student body for the 1973-74 academic year. Spencer and Bevan both stated that they saw no difficulty in absorbing the two classes from Queens. Queens will liquidate its valuable holdings in Charlotte's posh Myers Park section. The Mint Museum has expressed considerable interest in several of the buildings. The dormitories will be remodeled and used as apartments for young married couples. Bevan also indicated that the majority of the Queens faculty will be incorporated into the Davidson faculty to cover the increased enrollment. "In addition to expanding the numbers of our faculty, the addition of the Queens faculty will strengthen the departments which could be expected to have increased enrollment with coeducation," Bevan noted.

C. David Cornell, vice president of finance and development, said that he could see no major financial difficulties in the proposal as written. "I have talked with most of the college's major contributors and they seem to have no strong objections to coeducation. I think that we can have coeducation and not lose any of the financial support that the college has now. At least if we lose some sources, we can make it up with others." The proposal calls for an enrollment of 1750 in the 1973-74. Cornell did indicate that plans were being drawn up for expansion of existing dormitories, but that for the next two or three years off-campus housing would have to be expanded. The trustees are expected to meet in a special session either Wednesday or Friday, with final details to be worked out this weekend by Warner Hall, chairman of the board, and Greg Scott, assistant to the president.