Page Six
January 29, 1971

Sidelines with Ernie Shipe
Sports Editor

Tuesdays during the winter term were usually the days you would reach for the morning sports pages to see how far up the Wildcats had moved in the national wire service rankings. This Tuesday I happened to notice below those weekly rankings a picture of Mel Davis. The face and name seemed fairly familiar and I then remembered a story several years ago in a national magazine on the young New Yorker describing him as one of the best schoolboy basketball players in the nation.

Davis, if you didn’t see Tuesday night’s game, is one of the best players on a good St. John’s basketball team. I decided I might as well make it to the Coliseum to at least see him play. Also, I recalled my freshman year and one of the more exciting games I had ever seen. It involved this same St. John’s team. It was a game where St. John’s overweight forward, Bill Paultz (now with the New York Nets), threw in a desperation shot at the buzzer to shock the nationally ranked ’Cats.

But I just didn’t expect this would happen again. So I made it to Charlotte a few minutes past tip-off to see what Mel Davis would do. After all, he was fourth in the nation in rebounding, leading the Redmen in scoring, and could even be an All-American when he is a senior two years from now.

However, when I walked in I saw something I’d never expect. The ’Cats were ahead and Davis hadn’t done much of anything. I don’t mean to degrade Davidson or Mel Davis, but Davidson without Adrian hasn’t been one of the year’s experiences, and I had a preconceived notion of Davis as a Lew Alcindor or something. Davidson was looking like the old Davidson at times. They jumped off to a 12-4 lead before St. John’s knew what was happening. But before I get carried away, there were times when the ’Cats even looked like those of the pre-Lefty, Terry Holland days as they managed to let the Redmen back into the game by turning the ball over 15 times in the first half.

Eric Minkin even fancied himself at times as another Doug Cook or Mike Maloy as he left Redmen defenders bewildered with some beautiful moves opening himself under the basket. It had to be the best night the 6-7 Philadelphian had in his varsity career. The injury-ridden junior made eight of 15 shots from the field and eight of ten foul shots for 26 points.

The story around Mel Davis was simply the Davidson defense and particularly Steve Kirley. Although Davis snatched 14 rebounds, he was limited to 11 points. Kirley, whose offensive play last week earned him the honor of the Southern Conference Player of the Week, simply intimidated the Redmen guards from getting the ball into the high-scoring forward. Once Davis did get the ball, Kirley forced him to take many bad shots.

And, of course, there was the exciting finish. With a little less than two minutes remaining and the score knotted 54-54, Kirley batted away a St. John’s shot and Holland wisely elected to let the clock run out. With nine seconds remaining, Duncan Postma drove the baseline for the final shot but saw it blocked. Postma retrieved the loose ball and hit Kirley who was open at the head of the key. Kirley (who claims to be a better shooter at 30 feet) spotted Joe Sutter on the other corner who banked the winning goal in with the clock dying. I just wish Paultz and Lou Carnesecca could have been there.

Robert Mosketti signed a contract Wednesday with the college to become a new assistant football coach due to the departure of Turnley Todd to the University of Virginia. Mosketti will become the defensive coordinator and will specifically be in charge of the defensive backfield. Evans Brown, who was in charge of the defensive backs, will move into Todd’s position as the offensive line coach.

Mosketti comes to Davidson from Mansfield HS in Mansfield, Ohio, where he was named the conference coach of the year this past season. He brought the Mansfield team from a winless season in 1969 to an undefeated season in 1970. Mosketti attended the University...of Miami (Fla.) and graduated from the University of Cincinnati. 

By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

For the Davidson Wildcats, holding a slim lead in the Southern Conference, the schedule gets tougher and tougher. Tomorrow night at the Coliseum the ‘Cats tangle with the Wake Forest Demon Deacons, headed by high-scoring senior guard Charlie Davis, in what promises to be one of the most exciting games of the season. Wake Forest sports a 9-5 season record including a conquest of Jacksonville. They have also topped Duke and North Carolina. They feature an exciting offense paced by Davis, possibly the most exciting player in the Atlantic Coast Conference. Davis, averaging 27 points per game, and senior Gil McGregor, with 14, have paced the Deacon attack along with sophomore Pat Kelly and John Lewkowicz.

Coach Terry Holland commented that “there will be no special defense against Davis.” “Duncan Postma will probably be guarding Davis. He has had several good defensive games. Of course, we'll help Duncan as much as possible without sacrificing anything inside,” Holland added. He pointed out that Wake has inside strength with McGregor and Kelly as well as Davis’ great outside ability. Holland agreed that the Cat attack has been spotty at times this year and noted that as long as Brian Adrian remains out of the lineup, defense against the ‘Cats is a little easier. Concerning Adrian, Holland stated, “Brian is still favoring his knee and I have no idea when he will be at full strength.”

The Wildcats return to conference action next Tuesday against winless VMI on the road. “They are always tough at VMI,” was Holland’s immediate remark. Holland stressed the importance of every conference game from here on, since the 'Cats could gain a bye in the first round of the conference tournament if they win the title. “It is really rough to play three games in three days,” he said.

(Staff photo by Davidson) GRAB Davidson’s Eric Minkin pulls down a rebound against St. Johns.

Spencer Will Ask Trustees To Supplement Grid Grants
By JOE EARLE
Asst. Sports Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. will take a proposal to the trustees this spring that approximately $70,000 be given to the Wildcat Club to pay for football scholarships during 1971. The Wildcat Club Athletic Fund was set up to pay all football scholarships through alumni donations. A goal of $150,000 was set for the year 1970, and only $80,650 was raised. Spencer will recommend that the college donate money from the endowment to supplement the deficit. The Wildcat Club’s drive was to free the college from the cost of football scholarships, a major part of the overall cost of the football program. Other football expenses will be paid by the college.

Spencer said he felt this would give the Wildcat Club a full trial year to raise the necessary money. The fund drive has been in operation five months. Steve Heckard, director of the fund drive, said that he felt sure the money could be raised during 1971. “We raised the $80,000 in a short time,” he said, “and once the operation gets going, we should have little trouble raising the full amount.”

The budget for the fund was set up in the trustee decision last year. It is based on a formula of 52 scholarships, the number used for football, multiplied by $800, the average amount of non-athletic scholarships. As the cost of tuition rises, the amount needed by the fund will rise proportionally, but Heckard foresees no problem in raising the necessary money. The football scholarships can be given out in any manner the coaches determine, with no prerequisites of need.

Dave Fagg, head coach of the Wildcats, was very critical of the program. Fagg claimed that the manner in which the funding was set up put a burden on the recruiters and on the fund-raisers. “But I feel sure that we can continue to raise the money,” he stated, “because there are a lot of people that want to see Davidson maintain a good football program.” The money raised during 1970 will pay for scholarships during 1971. Fagg said that recruiting would continue under the premise that the money will be paid by the college. All basketball scholarships are paid by the college.

FABULOUS DINING — International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA