Page Two January 22, 1971

The Davidsonian

Senate Votes To Join NSA
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Staff Writer

The SGA Senate voted Wednesday night to join the National Student Association. The NSA, sometimes linked with radical causes, has
incurred large debts which many senators felt Davidson College could be held responsible for at some later time. After assurances
were given that the college would not be responsible for debts, the Senate voted to join the NSA and voted
to approve the $25 a year membership fee. For the past year, the school has been on a trial membership
basis with partial benefits from NSA.

In other action Wednesday night, it was announced that school officials had agreed to open all financial records to student
investigation to see where money came from and where it was used, and to check on the priorities of the
college. SGA President Ran Coble announced that Admissions Director H. Edmunds White had agreed to student participation in policy decisions
of his committee and would support the proposal in faculty meetings.

Continued publication of a school annual received attention, with a committee being set up to study alternatives and to conduct
a student opinion poll to determine student attitudes toward the annual. It was recommended that all students running for the
office of Editor of the Annual be informed that such an office may not exist, depending upon the actions of
the committee. The matter of the continued publication of the annual had been discussed by the Publications Board, which voted
to turn the study over to the Senate. In asking the Senate to do the study, the board requested that
the president of the publications board and the editor of the annual be allowed to participate. The final decision on
the continuation of the "Quips and Cranks" will rest with the publication board.

Editors Contend
(Continued from Page 1)

volved in achieving this improvement.” They stressed the possible importance of events off campus to this end and said of
their plans, “We don’t intend to get involved in misty platitudes about morality.” Grissett saw the major thrust of his
plans besides the fraternity issue to be “to enable students to get the news and see varying opinions on it
so they can better formulate their own ideas concerning these happenings and how they affect their life at Davidson.” Grissett
said he “would view other issues as to how I think they would or would not benefit the Davidson student.”

By DOUG BROWN
Staff Writer

The number of people applying to Davidson this year is down. As of January 18, only 618 people had applied
for admission to the freshman class. “It must be realized that this is a different crop of high school seniors,”
said H. Edmunds White, director of admissions. The major reason cited by White was the rising costs which have hit
Davidson as they have other private institutions. He pointed out that other private colleges have had a decreasing number of
applications in the last two or three years, and this has hit Davidson this particular year. “The general economy of
the country is in a recession. Tuition and other related costs are substantial, and the public is more hesitant to
apply to independent institutions,” commented White. According to White, people may be applying to college later this year, and he
has heard talk of this. “Students may not panic about college applications the way they did in past years,” said
White. It may be that students are not putting in as many multiple applications as they formerly did. Last year,
61% of those accepted enrolled at Davidson.

Davidsonian Staff
Chief Associate: PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editors: DICK ANDERSON, RUSS MERRITT, JOE SMITH
Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT, DON PARMAN
Sports Editor: ERNIE SHIPE
Assistant Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD WILSON
Copy Editors: JEFF ALLENDER, STEVE CROSS
News Editor: SCOTT DAVIDSON
Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE
Ass't Sports Editors: JOE EARLE, A. W. TURNER
Cartoonists: J. B. FAWCETT, ZACK MOBLEY, CULLUM ROGERS, DARYL WILLIAMS
Circulation Managers: BRUCE PUCKETT, HOWARD RAMAGLI
Photographers: DAVE DOTY, ROGER MANLEY, SAM RAMACHANDRAN, BOB STRAND
Contributors this week: Doug Brown, Robert Touchton, Dave Tierney, Howard Boyd, Peter Michael, David Hanig, and Alec Honn.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$7.00.and he believed he might get a higher percentage to accept Davidson's offer of admission. “Although I think the basketball
team is doing well this year, it has not matched the performance of past years, and this might have some
effect on the number applying,” White theorized. He pointed out that it helps in recruitment if a college is in
the national limelight, for favorable publicity always helps.

Editor’s Note: The following interview with College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. was conducted by Assistant Managing Editor Richard Wilson
in order that the President could clarify his position on different aspects of the report by the Committee of Eighteen.

Were you surprised at the number of freshmen that went out for rush?
Not particularly, I think it’s perfectly understandable. I realize there was strong sentiment in this direction in the freshman class.

If freshmen do not want to eat down at the house to which they are assigned, will they be forced
to anyway?
The freshmen do not have to eat at their house, but this is where their meal is paid for.

Out of which fund will the money come from to implement the social system?
We will get that from the Contingency Fund. This fund covers unforeseen expenses which come up during the year. There
is approximately $100,000 in this fund. The money for the freshmen social expenses and the money to buy the fraternity
furniture will come out of this fund. We hope there will be enough to cover these expenses.

How will you enforce the seventh guideline of the trustee’s proposal, the one prohibiting eating off campus?
I don’t know. We'll deal with this if it comes up. We hoped this would not take place. We are
hoping the students will stay on campus and contribute to the sense of community.

If it appeared that fraternities are going off-campus successfully, would you compromise on the social system?
There is no intention to compromise on it.

Is the Committee of Eighteen still in existence?
The Committee of Eighteen was dissolved when they issued their report. The committee will not be reactivated.

Do you have any comment on the harassment freshmen are experiencing at some of the houses to which they are
assigned?
I am not surprised there are problems. In any system where there has been major change, difficulties will occur.

If a majority of a house voted to reject the college plan but a sizeable minority want to remain on
campus, will they be allowed to keep the house they are in?
There is no definite plan for the assignment of vacant houses. We will have to work it out. I suggest
that they put in their written request for a house.

Although White sees an improvement in the present national economic situation easing this pressure somewhat, he does not believe the
general pattern is going to change.

The following freshmen are pledges at the four fraternity houses participating in last month's rush.

SAE
Eldon Basham, Scott Candler, Jim Collins, Chip Davidson, Bill DuPont, Mackie Horton, Steve Johnson, Jeff Johnston, Steve Keller, Tom Kent,
Cliff Kirk, John Knox, Earl McCall, Mark Monson, Peyton Prosper, Jim Ray, Marty Soards, Dick Spinner, Donald Trask, Walt Walker.

KA
Jim Bethea, John Brandon, Loren Clay, Charlie Conklin, Bob Cunningham, Tyler Downing, Steve Flemming, Sam Gardner, Jim Hanna, Richard Hendrix,
Chris Holly, Rock Hudson, Charlie Hutchinson, Dave Ingold, John Johnston, John McCartney, Mack Mitchell, George Poe, Tom Redding, Dick Richardson,
Frank Smith, Rob Strand, Robert Touchton, Phill Vickery.

PDT
Bill Allen, Rocky Bankester, Tom Bernhardt, Philip Bishop, Gary Bressler, Pat Cochran, Gary Corne, Mel Cunningham, Dave Curtiss, John Douglas,
Ted Ellett, Jim Hankinson, Alec Hoon, Tom Ioanes, Dave Kittrell, Mike McFarland, Bill McIlwain, Frank McShane, Ross Manire, Glenn Mee,
Jim Purcell, Mitch Purvis, Bill Ralston, Spencer Robinson, Steve Shankweiler, Jack Stultz, Tom Traxler, Miles Ward, Allan Ware, and Robert
Warnken.

SPE
Calvin Allen, Duncan Baker, Steve Balkcom, David Bender, Gary Bolick, John Braingan, Hal Canter, Tom Case, Tuck Cline, Jim Coggin,
Lewis Deaton, Herb Dimmock, Todd Eades, Bob Eklund, Frank Erwin, Mark Franke, Bill Giduz, Bill Higgins, John Hines, Bob Horton,
David Huffine, Robby Little, Brad Long, Mack Mabry, Rick Mack, Robert Melson, Mark Miller, Ad Orkin, David Parkhurst, Paul Scott,
Mark Sismund, Charlie Slagle, Steve Spicer, Bob Stopher, Dan Thorne, David Tierney, Kenneth Williams, and Rabun Williams.
