The Davidsonian May 7, 1971 Page Three

Alumni Activities ‘On The Upswing’
By RUSS MERRITT
Co-Editor-in-Chief

There are 11,155 living Davidson alumni, of which 10,230 are active and 925 (mostly non-graduates) are inactive. They are located in nearly every state in the country, holding positions ranging from the chairman of the board of one of the nation’s largest corporations to gas station attendants to college presidents.

Attempting to keep in communication with all these diverse “Davidson men” is the college’s Office of Alumni Activities, staffed (or, more accurately, understaffed) by three tireless and enthusiastically hard workers. Director of the office's activities is Howard B. Arbuckle, a Davidson graduate who is in his second year with the alumni office. Arbuckle, who played on the first basketball team of Lefty Driesell at Davidson, is “very encouraged with the work we've been able to do. I'm very impressed with the number we encounter who are willing to help Davidson. Our program is on the upswing.”

Arbuckle’s assistant, Dachary F. Long, also a Davidson alumnus, is in his first year with the alumni office. Long, editor of the yearbook while at Davidson, possesses an unlimited amount of creative energy, and has successfully organized and directed regional alumni meetings all year. The third member of the office is its secretary, Mrs. Nancy Blackwell, who has been the continuing element of the office for 25 years. According to Arbuckle and Long, she knows more about Davidson alumni than the college computer.

Despite its talents, the alumni staff has had its problems, as Arbuckle realizes. “We know that we are far from being above

(Staff photo by Ralston)
MAINTAINING THE FOLD
Alumni office discusses alumni program.

Not In A Mold

Every school has its stereotypical alumnus. Yale and Harvard men have traditionally been easily recognized as either executives in business suits or professors behind desks with pipes in hand. The MIT alumnus can usually be seen in a white overcoat building a missile guidance system or constructing a new dam project.

Davidson's “typical” alumnus is no exception. He, too, can usually be found to fit a stereotype, residing in the Carolinas or Virginia with his wife (probably a graduate of Queens, Salem, or Converse) and two or three kids, voting Republican, and earning a good salary as an executive in a comfortable business or banking firm or as a doctor. The classic Southern WASP.

J. Stuart Meacham, '31, is not the stereotypical Davidson alumnus. He doesn't fit the mold. Indeed, he is quite a distance from it. For one thing, Meacham is nationally famous, a trait which cannot be attributed to many Davidson men other than the likes of Woodrow Wilson and Dean Rusk. (Rusk, incidentally, was Meacham’s roommate while at Davidson). For another, Meacham is a pacifist, a radical Quaker convert. He has become in literary and rhetorical circles nationwide a respected spokesman for the radical-pacifist position, and is recognized by government political minds as a force to be reckoned with.

(Meacham, along with missionary Dr. Paul S. Crane and author William A. Emerson, will be a featured guest this alumni weekend. He will lead two discussion groups tomorrow morning on “Student Political Activity” and “The Relevance of Demonstrations.”)

Meacham came to Davidson back in 1927 as a fundamentalist Presbyterian, due to his father, a minister. Upon graduation, he took his religious beliefs to seminary in Louisville, KY. He entered seminary life, however, Meacham began to feel the social effects of the Depression, and experienced grave doubt as to the relevance of his fundamentalist convictions in a world of social unrest and injustice. He began to study Socialist Party literature, and read much of Reinhold Niebuhr’s socially oriented works. Eventually, he was appointed as assistant minister to a large and affluent Birmingham, Alabama, church. It was not long before several NAACP leaders, some union officials, and one black speaker later—for him to join the ranks of unemployed Presbyterian ministers.

By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Asst. Managing Editor

This year’s Alumni Weekend will be held while students are still on campus in an effort to bring alumni back to a “live” campus for some dialogue with students according to Howard B. Arbuckle, III, Director of Alumni Activities. Students are cordially invited and “strongly urged” to attend all of the activities of the weekend. Events are scheduled for all day Saturday in addition to class reunions tonight at various locations in Charlotte and Davidson.criticism. There are a lot of ways in which alumni relations at Davidson could be improved, and we recognize this. “It’s ridiculous to say that we have an excellent program, because there is much improvement that can be done. I like to think that alumni relations are growing and that we're making attempts to improve them, however.”

One of the greatest criticisms of the Office of Alumni Activities is that its organization does not allow for a full use of students and faculty in relations with alumni. There are many ways, the arguments go, in which students and faculty could exchange views with alumni and “take the college” to these former students. “We feel the necessity of using students and faculty in our alumni programs, and we're beginning to institute programs enabling us to make full use of these campus resources,” Long said in response to this argument. “We've begun to use students and professors in our regional alumni meetings regularly this year to let the alumni hear from those here at Davidson now just what's going on at the college. We plan to use students much more in future alumni programs, if the students show any interest.”

Arbuckle echoed Long, emphasizing that the students now at Davidson, even if they don't graduate from here, become Davidson alumni upon the graduation of their class.

Another criticism of the Davidson alumni program is that it does not make good use of the college’s alumni, and that it has not organized the alumni into any sort of strong, cohesive group. According to Long, however, in some areas Davidson has an “active core group of alumni... We're still building alumni groups, however. We are not reaching everybody yet, we know.”

This year, under Long's direction, the alumni office sponsored over 50 area alumni meetings across the country. “We simply wanted to inform alumni about Davidson, to hear from them their responses, to seek their support, and above all to bring them together as Davidson alumni,” Long said.

A third criticism of Davidson’s alumni program is that of money. In a time of financial woes, there are many associated with the college who feel that the alumni office should be able to solicit much of the money that is needed. Arbuckle, who heads the Annual Fund Drive, pointed out that the alumni office has almost reached its goal for financial contributions for the year, however.

The following Capsule Courses will be offered Saturday morning. Students, faculty, and alumni are invited.

9:30
228 Chambers
Stuart Meacham: “Students, Youth, and Political Power” with Professor Jackson
219 Chambers
Bill Emerson: “The New Resurrection: Was God really dead?” with Professor Maloney
224 Chambers
John M. Bevan: “New Direction in College Curricula” with Danny Clodfelter
221 Chambers
Professor Grant and Nelson: “Ecology and the State of Ecology in North Carolina”

10:30
228 Chambers
Stuart Meacham: “The Significance of May Day”
219 Chambers
Bill Emerson: “Relevance of Writing in the Seventies” with Professor Holland
201 Chambers
Dr. Paul Crane: “American Attitudes Toward Asians” with Professor Gaige
212 Chambers
Jimmy Trussell: “Sex on the College Campus”
224 Chambers
“Coeducation at Davidson” with six coeds

Alumni To Gather On ‘Live Davidson. “Capsule Courses” in Continuing Education will be held from 9:30 a.m. to 11:15 a.m. in Classrooms in Chambers. Students are “strongly urged” to attend these classes to provide alumni with different perspectives on the matters discussed.

The annual Alumni Luncheon, at which all seniors are guests of the alumni, will be held on the front lawn of the campus at 1 p.m. Students other than seniors who wish to attend may purchase a ticket at that time. Dedication of the new Sentelle Dorm (old East Dorm) will follow the luncheon. According to Arbuckle, some protest is expected to accompany the dedication.

Athletic contests in football and tennis will pit the present varsity teams against a collection of alumni players at 3 p.m. Among those playing for the alumni will be Steve Heckard '65 of the Los Angeles Rams, Neill McGeachy (an All-American at Lenoir-Rhyne), Sandy Carnegie ‘50 (whose son is now a sophomore at Davidson), and Russell Walls ’64 (now a psychology professor on the faculty).

An alumni reception honoring the graduating Senior class will be held in Hobart Park at 5:45 p.m. A “Generations Banquet” will follow in Johnston Gymnasium. The purpose of the banquet is to get direct lines of alumni and students back to the campus. Arbuckle expressed hope that students would actively involve themselves in the activities of the weekend and thereby assure its success. In summary he said, “It's something new,” and indeed it is.