THE JUMP OF A CHAMPION

(Staff photo by Lyle)

Ray Swetenburg exhibits the hurdling style that won him a qualifying time for the NCAA.

Thinclads Take Fourth In Conference Tourney

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

The Southern Conference indoor track championships were held on March 6 in Lexington, Virginia, and the Wildcat runners produced a
surprising fourth place finish.

Perennially powerful William and Mary swept the team honors, followed in order by East Carolina, Furman, Davidson, The Citadel, Richmond,
and the host school VMI.

Two Wildcats notched individual championships. Junior Tommy Richardson took first place in the 60-yard dash with a time of 6.4
seconds, only .2 off the conference indoor record. Richardson also placed second in the 220-yard dash.

Junior Ray Swetenburg was the hard-luck performer of the meet. He took first place in the 60-yard high hurdles with
a time of 7.4 seconds, a mere .1 second shy of the conference mark.

Swetenburg’s performance was good enough to qualify him for the NCAA competition a week later, but he was ineligible to
participate in the event.

Coach Whittle explained that the deadline for entries in the NCAA expired the week before the conference meet. He did
not anticipate that anyone from Davidson would qualify and did not send any names as entries.

Swetenburg's qualifying for the nationals led Coach Whittle to request permission from the NCAA board to allow Swetenburg to compete,
but his appeal was turned down by the committee.

Swetenburg completed an outstanding performance by placing second in the triple jump.

Commenting on prospects for the upcoming outdoor season, Whittle is hoping for a finish comparable to the indoor team.

Whittle is expecting strong performances this spring from the field events, particularly the shot put and discus throw.

Another event in which the ‘Cats are expected to excel is the triple jump, where Swetenburg, Tom Rogers, and Lester
Abberger provide talent and depth.

Richardson will receive a boost in the sprint events with the addition of football star Rick Lyon, a former conference
220 champion, to the ranks.

The first home meet is slated for Thursday when the ‘Cats host Pembroke State University in a dual competition.

The Davidsonian
March 26, 1971
Page Seven

'Cats Beat BGSU, Post 4-1 Record

By ERIC VERNON
Sports Writer

The Davidson netters ran over the Bowling Green State University squad Tuesday afternoon for their fourth victory in five outings
this season.

Before the 9-0 decision over Bowling Green State, the Wildcats had beaten Florida Presbyterian and Florida Southern by 9-0 and
8-1 scores, respectively.

Wednesday the 'Cats downed Amherst at Davidson.

The team’s lone defeat was to Rollins. In spite of the 7-2 setback, Coach Harry Fogleman was pleased with the
Cats’ performance, remarking that “we gave them a good match.”

Fogleman said that poor practice weather and two cancelled matches have kept his players from reaching top condition, but that
a little more work will get the team in better shape.

Although the team plays one of its roughest schedules ever this spring, the competition will come mostly from non-Southern Conference
schools such as Presbyterian, Virginia, and Navy.

Furman and The Citadel are expected to give the Wildcats some competition in Conference play, but Davidson is heavily favored
to repeat as conference champ.

Fogleman said that he rated his team “on about the same level as UNC,” one of the best teams in
the country this year, but the ‘Cats have room for improvement.

“Another four or five matches and the squad will be all right,” said Fogleman.

“We need some better weather, not only for the team's sake, but also in order that we can finish fixing
up the composition courts.”

Fogleman listed the team's top six players as Bobby Koury, David Weaver, Jeff Dumansky, Hy Lankanau, Jim Cantrell, and Jeff
Chetwood.

He also pointed out the team’s youth. Only Cantrell and Chetwood are seniors, while the other singles players are sophomores.

Fogleman also mentioned freshman Bill Allen as an “excellent doubles player.”

The Cats’ doubles assignments are (1) Koury-Dumansky, (2) Weaver-Allen, and (3) Cantrell-Lankanau.

Private Club in the Blue Ridge Mountains seeks young married couple to act as day camp counselors from June 15
through Labor Day. Must love children of all ages. Also experience needed in life guarding, camping, and crafts. Please send
resume to:

Warren J. Tremblay
General Manager
Roaring Gap Club, Inc.
Roaring Gap, N.C.

FLARE PANTS in Knits, too.

DINGO BOOTS new styles added

KNIT SHIRTS new Izod knits

SWIMWEAR and beach pants

FOCUS ON FASHION FOR SPRING

Come see our new Spring dress and Sportswear — and make your selections

Use your automatic Charge account... a service for all Davidsonians

SUITS and SPORTCOATS new colors and patterns

HALF-SLEEVE SHIRTS new collars in new colors and stripes

NEW LONG SLEEVE SHIRTS including new woven ‘clips’

BELTS of all descriptions

Come browse....

John Mack & Son
Mooresville
