Page Eight October 22, 1971 The Davidsonian (Staff photo by Erwin) BICK CLICKS Delt tailback Bick Halligan searches for a
receiver.

Brickels Hopeful For Young Cagers By BILL MORRIS Staff Writer

“We are going to make something happen this year. It might not be the right thing, but if we're going
to make mistakes, we’re going to make mistakes doing something!” Assistant basketball coach Bo Brickels made the above prediction as
the 1971-72 version of the Wildcat basketball team began practice last Friday, and that prediction, along with everything else he
said, was made with optimism about the coming season.

“We have two varsity returnees, Eric Minkin and John Pecorak, two guys who have never played a varsity game, and
nine sophomores, and you just can’t play that way but we're gonna do it anyway,” Brickels commented.

This year’s schedule is the toughest that any Davidson team has ever faced, according to Brickels. The ‘Cats meet Clemson,
Pittsburgh, Princeton, Duke, Dayton, and South Carolina in Charlotte, plus Furman and East Carolina, and then add Notre Dame and
UCLA in a few years.

“You look at some of the nationally ranked teams. With their schedules we could win twenty games easily, but with
ours it’s gonna be a little tougher. We have some tough games early, and since we are young, we're gonna
need to win to gain some confidence,” he added.

“We're not big, but we're aggressive as hell and we're quick. Our quickness is unbelievable, and we're gonna make things
happen. We're gonna be interesting to watch. On offense we're definitely going to run. We’re going to

Runners Split Meet, Even Season Mark By JIM HANNA Copy Editor

The Wildcat cross-country team will have a better season than last year’s, even if they lose the rest of their
races. The harriers were 1-14 last year; they are already 3-3 this season, with the most recent results being a
1-1 split with VMI and Washington and Lee.

Last Monday the ’Cats lost to VMI but beat Washington and Lee in a tri-meet in Lexington, Va. “The win
against W&L might be one of the last for the Davidson runners, as Coach Sterling Martin’s charges face a rough
schedule rounding out the season. The harriers travelled to The Citadel this morning, where they will face a squad termed
by Martin to be ‘‘at least as strong as VMI,” a team which handled the ’Cats 15-42 Monday.

Tuesday will see a six-team meet here at Davidson, as the ‘Cats will host Wake Forest, Appalachian, Pembroke, High Point,
and Furman.

FLICKERBALL FINALS MONDAY Unbeaten Kappa Sigs, Delts Clash In IMAC Tournament By HOWARD BOYD Asst. Sports Editor

The only two remaining unbeaten teams in IMAC flickerball square off Monday afternoon in the finals of the IMAC tourney.
The Delts and the Sigs were scheduled to play last Thursday, but the game was called by mutual agreement because
of the light rain.

The Sigs walloped the SAE’s 45-19 while the Delts squeezed past Emanon 27-26 in semi-final play to set the stage
for the big game.

In Monday's quarterfinal action, the Sigs broke open a tight game in the second half and knocked out the Indies
28-14. Leading only 7-0 at halftime,use a pressing type defense. We're going to have to press to combat the height
we’re going to be facing. We’re not that big. “I don't think anybody’s going to be able to run us
man to man. And if they zone us, then we've got some super shooters. The trouble right now is what
are we going to do at the other end, how to stop the other guys. We're going to need a
super defense,” Brickels commented. “You can’t say who is going to start ‘cause who knows. We're going to play eight
or nine guys. We have to play the type of game we're going to play. It’ll look a lot like
last year’s North Carolina team,” he said. “We've got to utilize what we've got. We've got talent, we've got speed,
we've got quickness, but more than anything else, more importantly than all the rest, is that we've got people that
want to play,” Brickels concluded.

DAVIDSON GROCERY
GROCERIES, BEER, WINE AND PICNIC SUPPLIES
7:00-5:30 Mon., Tues., Thur., Sat. | 7:00 - 1:00 Wed.
7:00 - 6:00 Fri. | 1:30-7:30 Sun.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
+ Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The Hub
OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY

The Sigs pulled away on second stanza scores by Paul Whetsell, Bill Mohr, and Cooper Geraty. The Indies wound up
5-3. The Delts edged a stubborn band of SPE’s 20-14, as Drew White, Hugh Gaither, and Vic Fleming scored once
each to offset a two-touchdown performance by the losers’ Eddie Johnston. The E’s nipped the Pikas in a defensive battle
18-13. Roy Campbell, Nick Livengood, and Bruce Baird tallied early and the defense held off the Pika offense, once again
sputtering without tailback Blair Abee. Emanon I reached the semis with a surprisingly easy 49-13 romp over the Taus. Robbie
Little had a pair of TD’s and five teammates joined the scoring parade for the victors, who led 21-0 at
halftime.

In closing regular season games, the Delts claimed their fourth unbeaten season in the last five by bombing Watts I
41-6, behind Drew White, Vic Fleming, and Jack Hartman. The Sigs chalked up their seventh straight win by shellacking Cannon-Watts
70-0, as Pete Jorgenson led the way with 3 TD's. The E's bounced Cannon II 35-7 as Dave Weaver and
Roy Campbell scored three and two times, respectively. Emanon I blasted PAX 47-0, paced by Sam Upchurch’s pair of scores
and one each by five teammates. The Indies got touchdown receptions from Jim Parish and Tim Ebert and a safety
on a bad center snap to halt the KA’s 15-6 and claim the second playoff berth in B I. Tailback
Steve Williams tallied on an 18-yard run for the losers’ only points. The SPE’s won over W II by forfeit
and Emanon II forfeited to the Pikas.

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.
Jewelry Homecoming 1971
Use your Charge Account
Good Luck Cats

Perk up your Togs
Come see us for Sero Shirts
Van Heusen Shirts
Jeans
Knit Shirts
Boots and other Campus Clothing
John Mack & Son
Mooresville—only 6 miles North
