Page Ten January 22, 1971

Friday, January 22
8:03 p.m. Film: "The Adventurers"

Saturday, January 23
8:03 p.m. Film: "The Adventurers"

Monday, January 25
10 p.m. Chamber Concert

Tuesday, January 26
9 a.m. Trust Company of Georgia Interviews
9 a.m. First and Merchant’s National Bank Interviews
9 a.m. First National Bank of South Carolina Interviews
10 a.m. Peace Corps Recruitment
7:30 p.m. Drama Workshop I

Wednesday, January 27
9 p.m. Union Coffee House: "Trout Fishing in America"

Thursday, January 28
9 a.m. General Electric Interviews
10 a.m. Lecture: Peter Heath "Are There Any Human Rights?"
12 p.m. Lunch Films
8 p.m. Fine Film: "Grand Illusion"
9:30 p.m. Discussion: "Grand Illusion"

Friday, January 29
9 a.m. General Tire and Rubber Interviews
9 a.m. C & S Interviews
9 a.m. Union Coffee House: "Trout Fishing in America"

The following freshmen have been randomly assigned to the seven fraternity houses participating in the random assignment eating club plan.

Alpha Tau Omega
Duncan Baker, Stephen Balkcom, David Bender, James Bethea, Douglas Brown, Thomas Bruce, Scott Candler, Loren Clay, Joel Deese, Herbert Dimrock, Edmund Ellett, John Falconi, Stephen Flemming, Gregory Funk, Samuel Gardner, McEver Horton, Robert Horton, John Jackson, Charles Johnson, Dennis Jones, Stephen Keller, David Kittrell, Britt Lowry, William McIlwain, Robert Norman, William Ralston, Stephen Spicer, William Vaughan, Timothy Vismor, John Webel, Rabun Williams, John Wilson.

Beta Theta Pi
Calvin Allen, William Allen, Michael Allpext, John Barringer, Franklin Bell, William Bencini Jr., Alan Blakley, John Brandon, Hutchins Brown, Richard Cochran, Edward Connette, Franklin Corriher, David Curtiss, Owen Dickens, Robert Dwyer, John Eyles, Jerry Godbehere, Daniel Harkinson, Christopher Holly, Dennis Keely, Charles Kilgore, Stephen Leresche, John McCartney, John McElveen, Duncan McGoogan, Thomas McKenzie, James McNair, John Todd Magee, Andrew Neisler, Edward Petitt, George Poe, James Purcell, Daniel Thorne, Robert Touchton, Anderson Trahern, Daniel Williams.

Kappa Sigma
Andrew Bailey, Philip Bishop, Gary Boliek, Donald Butts, Harry Canter, Peter Celentano, Ray Corne, Clifford Culpepper, Melville Cunningham, Robert Cunningham, John Deaver, Daryl Douglas, John Douglas, Steven Gadaire, Ronald Gibson, Jerry Graham, Manning Hudson, David Ingold, Steven Johnson, Thomas Kent, David Locklear, Bradford Long, Alton McCallum, Craig McDonald, Mack Mitchell, Adolph Orkin, Charles Payne, Britt Preyer, David Roche, Shankweiler, Stanley Thomas, Robert Thornton, David Tierney, Samuel Upchurch, Robert Whaling.

Phi Gamma Delta
Bruce Abele, Steve Bennett, Allen Blakey, Alexander Coblentz, James Coggin, Charles Conklin, Gregory Devane, William DuPont, Robert Eklund, James Gay, Gordon Glasgow, James Hanna, William Higgins, John Hines, Alec Hoon, Thomas Ioanes, Clifford Kirk, Ross Manire, Glenn Mee, Peter Michael, William Miller, Robert Phillips, Mitchell Purvis, James Reynolds, Lawrence Ruddell, John Scandling, Robert Staub, John Todd, Donald Trask, Paul Wagner, Timothy Walker, Hall Whitworth, Richard Workman, Craig Yoder.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Lester Abberger, Robert Bowman, John Branigin, Turner Callaway, Robert Chapman, David Daniel, Joseph Dimon, James Dorsett, David Doty, Charles Eades, Mark Franke, Stephen Gates, Michael Harding, David Huffine, Thomas Jenkins, John Knox, Michael McFarland, Roger Manley, Anthony Martin, Glynn Miles, Mark Miller, Mark Monson, Steve Morris, Tony Oakley, T. Jay Pecorak, Peyton Prospere, Thomas Redding, Michael Reed, Frank Smith, Samuel Stevenson, Robert Strand, Jack Stultz, Warren Tisdale, Kenneth Williams, Paul Yarbrough.

Pi Kappa Phi
Bryon Bankester, Douglas Berry, William Barnes, Eldon Basham, Paul Brown, Thomas Case, James Collins, John Culp, Charles Davidson, John Divine, Joseph Earle, Frank Erwin, Frank Folger, Raymond Weathers.

Mixed Feelings’ Honors College Weathers First Term’s Puzzlements
By GRAY WILSON, Asst. Managing Editor

It appears that the Honors College has established itself after weathering its first term at Davidson. Dean of the Honors College Frontis W. Johnston believes the program is now settled on campus even though it has yet to live up to all his expectations.

“I have mixed feelings,” Johnston said. “We have had a little foot-dragging. I certainly don't think we have achieved everything, but we have a good start. What we need is more professors to expand the program.”

So far no one has been dropped from the program, although one student withdrew voluntarily. Five more students entered the program at the beginning of the term.Grubb, David Hanig, Richard Hussian, John Inscoe, Robert Isner, Timothy Kimble, Albert Kyle, Mark Leonard, Samuel McAliley, Earl McCall, Mack Mabry, Daniel Mattox, Robert Melson, John Monaghan, Lewis Rogers, Bruce Seligmann, James Shepherd, Mark Sigmund, John Simms, William Sims, Peter Smith, Richard Spinner, Robert Stopher, Michael Thomason, Allen Tillman, Robert Vandergriend, Miles Ward, Allan Ware, Edgar Weir.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
James Alexander, Christopher Allison, Aldos Barefoot, Thomas Bernhardt, Robert Bolick, Tucker Cline, Richard Curry, Lynn Dean, Tyler Downing, Stephen Earp, John Fawcett, John Gnann, James Hankinson, Richard Hendrix, Charles Hutchinson, David Kitchens, Robert Little, Andy McLawhorn, Eric Mack, James Maxwell, Mark Myers, Ronald Page, David Parkhurst, Stephen Phillips, David Reid, Franklin Shinn, Charles Slagle, Frank Sommerville, Michael Sorrentino, David Stiver, Andrew Strawcutter, Thomas Traxler, Eric Vernon, Robert Warnken, Cooke Wilson.

Sigma Nu
Steven Bonville, Garrett Bressler, Lewis Deaton, David Duggins, George Edwards, Frank Farmer, Gary Garvin, William Giduz, Neal Gregory, Wilson Gunn, Jeffery Hasty, Thomas Hatley, Murray Hawkinson, Randolph Henwood, Jack Hobbs, Benton Hudson, Oscar Huntley, Jeffrey Johnston, John Johnston, James Lehnberg, Frank McShane, Kent Nearing, James Ray, Schuyler Richardson, Spencer Robinson, Steven Rudell, Scott Schreiber, Paul Scott, Marion Soards, Joseph Souther, Richard Travis, Philip Vickery, Walter Walker, Lenford Watkins, Edwin Williamson.

At the beginning of the winter term, raising the number of participants to a total of 28 members. Among this new addition are three sophomores, a junior, and for the first time a freshman. Three of the honors students are abroad this year and one other is now studying at Pomona, leaving 24 honors students on this campus. A freshman student has yet to begin college here completely on an honors program, but Johnston stated that "such a situation is theoretically possible. We still have to work out the interview, but the program is open to any entering student."

At the beginning of the winter term, all honors students received a letter warning that unless at least one honors grade was achieved each term, either on independent study or in the regular curriculum, students may be subject to expulsion from the program. A complaint was filed by Danny Clodfelter, questioning the vague nature of the letter with respect to adjusting standards to each individual. According to Clodfelter, "I think it would be nice to have every student doing honors work, but I don’t think it should be applied across the board. The problem is in translating honors standards into grades for a record for part of graduate work."

Clodfelter added that Johnston explained to him that the text of the letter was meant to be "flexible" in its application. "It was not meant as a threat," Johnston said. "We are saying that we think everybody ought to be doing his work on a quality level. This is to say that the Honors College is not a place where there are no standards." Johnston invited student comment on the letter through a general session, and he noted that students are likewise urged to evaluate their faculty advisors.

Cornell (continued from Page 3)
"There are other people associated with Davidson because of the church," he said. Cornell also discounted the impact of coeducation on college fund raising. "The key question here is not whether it is economically advantageous to be coed or not but academics." He stressed that people can be found who will contribute to either type of system in about equal numbers. Finally, he commented on the effect of contributors who objected to certain changing trends at Davidson or other colleges. "By and large in college you will find that the people that are loyal to the college will continue to support it. The vociferous critics in the wings are probably those who have given little or no support to the college through the years," he said.

Cornell made further comments about the general problem of supporting funding programs at a small college such as Davidson when talking to large foundations. Support is based on innovation which he feels is strong here at Davidson, he said. "It’s very easy for a development department to support programs coming out of an academic department where the proposals are innovative and creative."

Starring
A different kind of film from the directors of M-A-S-H
BREWSTER McCLOUD
Sally Kellerman ("HOT LIPS" in "Mash")
Starts FRIDAY, Jan. 22nd.
PARK TERRACE Theatre
Charlotte