LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Scott Suspects Foul Play In Governance

To The Editor:

The adoption during the summer of the Academic and Governance Regulations is one indicator that whatever trend towards more meaningful
involvement of students in the operations of their universities has indeed bypassed the trustees and select administrators of Davidson College.
Perhaps some faculty members should also be included as contributors to the insensitive document, but their involvement has tended to
be more in the area of Section I, that dealing strictly with academic affairs, which was compiled with some meaningful
student assistance. In addition, the very nature of academic relationships lends greater justification to the way in which it was
passed as compared to Section II, that dealing with student conduct and courts.

I would suggest five major reasons why the 1971 edition of the Governance Regulations would be viewed as a violation
of student rights and dignity and, consequently, should be categorically rejected.

It goes without saying that the method of adoption bypassed all legitimate avenues of student consideration. Even though I was
aware that the trustees were in the process of drafting a new structure for handling student conduct, I doubt very
seriously that there were many other students who were as fortunate. My awareness came from a tangential association with Student
Government, an impotent body to be sure, but one which serves as a hotbed of campus gossip. There was, of
course, no possible way for the incoming freshmen to be aware of conduct changes, and no effort was made to
inform them that a midsummer trustee meeting might alter former statutes. No student referendum was held; very few meetings were
arranged and those that were, were poorly publicized. Students were given one chance to meet and to express their sentiments
with the trustee committee considering conduct revision and even though student attendance at this meeting was impressive, only thirty percent
of the trustees bothered to attend themselves.

Dr. Bevan insists that the trustees met frequently with one or two students to get the student viewpoint. Although this
concession may have appeared monumental to the trustees, it strikes me as somewhat akin to sending two trucking firm executives
into a meeting with the nation’s railroad leaders in order to demand adjustments in rail policy giving trucks a rate
advantage.

During their mid-June meeting, after all students had departed for the summer, the trustees, upon the advice of Dr. Phillips
and Dr. Warner Hall, accepted the committee’s proposals. No student vote was ever taken or requested. A student poll listing
the options or requesting reaction to the one proposal was never circulated.

The second reason is that the trustees never presented a written draft of their conduct considerations until after students had
left for the summer. Student government and the president of the student body made frequent requests for a written document,
however tentative it may have been. The conduct committee of the trustees refused to do so on the grounds that
they wanted to keep the affair as open and as subject to change and suggestion as possible. They were afraid,
so we were told, that a written draft would be interpreted as a premature imposition upon the students, and that
they wanted the students to understand that they were still wrestling with the problem. Apparently, once students could no longer
be reached for assistance, the trustees were moved to compile a written document and to accept it. Again, all this
happened after the academic year was over.

The third reason that the regulations should be viewed with suspicion was the way in which it was presented in
the fall of this year. Freshmen received their copies as though they were the primordial guide for forgiveness and salvation,
as a type of Davidson corruption of Hammurabi’s code. I was told to read the document carefully and that if
I had any questions to refer them to the dean of students. Imagine that, any question I might have regarding
the code's legitimacy was to be referred to the very man who acts as its enforcement arm, as its executive
and judicial branch! Simply incredible.

The fourth reason that calls into serious question the code’s acceptability is its concept and content. Stationing relatively highly paid
informers in each dorm, kindly called Resident Hall Assistants, in order to “assist students in getting into their rooms in
case they lock themselves out,” is a clear indication of the administration's mistrust of students.“Out” is something of a misrepresentation.
I see the using of students as plainclothesmen instead of decision makers in particular cases as a cheap substitute for
meaningful participation in local governance. Actually, the content angle is virtually self-defeating. It’s the overall concept behind the proposal that
I find most abrasive. We are supposed to be living in a community. That's fine, but a community without shared
responsibilities and, yes, powers, is a farce. If a student’s conduct within the privacy of his room is construed as
the concern of the college, and I'm not calling that into doubt yet, then it appears to me that the
conduct of a professor in the shared confines of the classroom, and the conduct of an admissions official who is
considering an application recruited by a student should also be the concern of select student officials as well. Space provided,
in the next edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN, I will include a list of possible alternatives. In the interim, my approach
to the campus conduct code will continue to be, as it has in the past: one of malign neglect.

Michael A. Scott ‘73
Davidson College

Intellectual Senior Recalls Freshman Term Paper Blues

It was about this time of the year three years ago that I faced what every freshman must face sooner
or later, that is, the first paper. I remember quite well the feeling of nausea that swept over my body
when I got that first paper back. It looked like the professor had used my paper for the purpose of
cleaning his pen. Then, as now, the letter “D” did little to add to my general elation at being at
Davidson and even less as far as the enlargement of my ego was concerned. The fact that really bothered me
after I got over the “initial” shock from the “D” I got that ominous fall day was the realization that
my paper wasn’t worth the ink it took to put a “D” on it. My downfall had been the inability
to communicate simply. It is such a lack of simple communication which causes a great deal of frustration on the
Davidson campus. For some unknown reason, I no longer possess that paper but I can imagine what the first line
must have sounded like: “Due to the vicarious verisimilitudes of the religion of the Hittites toward concrete relativism...” Such a
first line is none other than a symptom of what I shall call “cheap intellectualism” which can be basically defined
as the attempt to speak on your own or someone else’s intellectual level. Cheap intellectualism unfortunately can be and usually
is practiced unconsciously. Whether conscious or unconscious, this phenomenon runs rampant at Davidson College and the greatest part of it
is not on paper. Conversations over trivial subjects immediately turn the participants into tireless debaters whose aim is to maul
a friend intellectually and above all else never let the words “I”, “don’t” and “know” slip out in that order.
Although cheap intellectualism is a rotten element on the Davidson campus, it is a thousand times more repulsive when carried
off campus and inflicted upon some unsuspecting member of a less intellectual environment. For example, I remember catching myself starting
a dialectic with a gas station attendant who made the mistake of commenting on the weather just after I’d spent
an hour spewing crap on a Humanities review. By God, I wanted to know who the hell he thought he
was to think he had the inside line on whether or not it would rain that afternoon. I felt a
real desire to put him down. Anyway, my point is this: Communication is best when it is simplest. Intelligence is
demonstrated through the ability to communicate with people rather than verbal and factual acrobatics. An intelligent person does not play
games when communication will be the loser.

Freshman Laments Showing In Race

To the Editor:

There has been much talk as to who really came in eighty-first at the 36th Annual Cake Race. I would
like to clear the latter mystery up by saying that I was eighty-first. As for proof, I have a whole
grandstand of masochists, my hall counselor, Ralph Peeples, and my whole living body. If there is a coed on campus
who feels sorry for me, please bake me an angel food cake with chocolate icing. My room is 110 Sentelle.
I am receiving sympathy cards starting Monday, September 27.

Gus Succop '75
Davidson College
