Page Two February 26, 1971 The Davidsonian

Faculty To Consider EPC Proposal For Art Major
By RICH WILSON Managing Editor

The faculty at their meeting Tuesday will consider a proposal that will allow the Fine Arts Department to offer a
major in art, according to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Passed by the Educational Policy Committee, the major in
art will include 36 hours with emphasis in studio and history as well as extended studies three and four.

“At present Davidson College is a liberal arts college without the arts,” said W. Herbert Jackson, instructor in art. “The
world of the visual arts has been ignored.”

“The purpose in offering a major in art is not to turn out artists, but to offer students here an
opportunity to open their eyes to their surroundings and participate in a non-verbal experience,” he said.

Jackson noted that the major in art will be philosophically based on the idea that the student does not need
previous experience. “We will evaluate each work not on its objective quality but on the involvement of the student -
his trying and struggling to complete the work,” said Jackson.

Concerning the prospects for the proposed major in art, Jackson said that if the faculty passes it, “many people will
be surprised at the number of people who have been waiting in the wings.” Jackson said that there will probably
only be a few students majoring in art the first number of years; however, he indicated that the number would
probably increase as the momentum of the department increases.

There will be no major outlay of funds in the near future, according to Jackson. “We do not intend to
increase our budget more than anyone else,” he said. The number of course offerings, however, will be increased. Two additional
courses will be introduced in studio, and the history courses will be expanded. The department will include three professors: Jackson,
Douglas C. Houchens, associate professor of Fine Arts, and Larry L. Ligo, instructor in Art.

SGA President Danny Clodfelter, at a senate meeting Monday night, announced that College President Samuel Spencer Jr. and Vice-president of
Finances and Development C. David Cornell have agreed to hold an Open End on coeducation at the beginning of the
Spring term. The Open End will be held shortly before the joint meeting of the Davidson and Queens coeducation committees.

RHC Decision (Continued from Page 1)

and it was defeated. If this matter came before the faculty now, Epes believes it would probably lose again. “I
don't know what would cause the faculty to change its mind, but self-righteous pronouncements by the RHC will not do
it.” Epes suggested the RHC bring the issue before the Student Life Committee, and he feels that all parties concerned
will not get exactly what they want.

Professor of Religion Max E. Polley said, “I am opposed to open dorms, and there are a number of reasons
for this. Open dorms seriously limit the rights of the residents of a dorm by allowing girls in the dorms
for 24 hours. Roommates have to find a place to sleep, and students are not assuming their responsibilities.”

He feels that a lot of damage is being done to personalities of students experimenting with the new sexual freedoms,
and this could lead to a lot of troubles with the marriage relationship. “Too many experiences with a variety of
girls is damaging because a meaningful relationship will be impossible,” he commented.

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
ADRIAN LONG
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

Copy Editors:
STEVE CROSS
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Contributors this week:
Steve Tierney, Steve Bennett, Peter Michael, Howard Boyd, Windy March, and Mrs. Austra Gaige.

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Photography Editors:
JOHN DAVIDSON
BILL LYLE

Ass’t Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS
DARYL WILLIAMS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
ROGER MANLEY
SAM RAMACHANDRAN
BOB STRAND

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$7.00.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

would write a letter to each of the faculty committee chairmen urging them to ask Spencer to approve student members
for their committees. Spencer has stated that he would let students serve on the faculty committees if the committee chairmen
ask for student membership. In response to criticism from the SGA on his letter on Rennie Davis, Spencer wrote Clodfelter
to explain that he had written the policy statement to explain to the alumni why he would not overrule the
SGA’s action in inviting Davis. Spencer wrote that the statement was written because several alumni felt that Davis’ presence on
campus would be an affirmation of what Davis advocates. Only one alumnus asked to have Davis banned outright from the
campus, Spencer added.

The Trustee Committee on Campus Governance, Clodfelter told the SGA, is in the process of redoing the honor code and
the honor court in order to bring them more in line with English common law. Since the committee does not
feel that it has the time to hear from the students, Walter L. Lingle, president of the trustees, requested that
any views held by students be dropped off at Spencer's office to be forwarded to him.

If Peter Hobbie, assistant to Dr. Spencer, could not succeed in giving each trustee a copy of the book by
Earl McGrath, “Should the Student Share the Power?,” then the SGA ought to look into the possibility of giving the
trustees the book with SGA funds, Junior Jody Turner suggested.

To improve relations between the SGA and the administration, Spencer, Cornell, and Vice-president for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan offered
to meet with the SGA to answer any questions, Clodfelter announced. Junior Cecil Burney was opposed to the idea. “This’ll
give Spencer the chance to go to the trustees and say, ‘Look and see what good student-administration relations we have
here.’” Over Burney’s objections, the senate passed a motion by Junior Jody Turner asking Spencer to come to the second
meeting of every month.

Clodfelter also announced that he had a list of over 60 symposia that Davidson students would be eligible to attend.
Although no money would be given automatically, the SGA would listen to requests for funds, Clodfelter added.

The majority of the meeting was spent, however, on a motion by Doug Sittler which stated that all student members
of faculty committees be required to report to the SGA every two weeks or be impeached. Sittler felt that the
motion was needed because “otherwise, the student would have more loyalty to the committee than to the SGA. This is
one chance for the SGA to assert itself.” After changing the word “impeached” to “reviewed,” the motion was passed.

Freshman President Bill Ralston capped off the meeting by saying that he had talked to Dean Burts about the locking
up of all-night study rooms. “Dean Burts told me that he had not yet reached a decision on the matter
and that he was still considering whether to have them or not,” Ralston stated.

ROTC Students To Visit High schools in the lower Piedmont of North Carolina will be visited soon by Davidson ROTC
students striving to meet guidance counselors and high school seniors in an effort to tell them something about ROTC. The
program, part of a nationwide, federally-funded project, involves Davidson with 93 secondary schools in the general area. It is designed
to acquaint people in a geographical area with the principles, objectives, and advantages of ROTC to allow the individual student
the opportunity to make a reasonable decision whether or not to enroll in military service courses in college. The program
will also inform students in these high schools of ROTC scholarships, which they may be eligible for but not aware
of.

Col. Virgil Foster, who commands Davidson's ROTC Corps, said he felt the program had two definite advantages. First, he felt
that through such a program prospective ROTC enrollees know what the program involves and what they are getting into if
they decide to enter ROTC. Foster also said that the program could well serve to advertise Davidson College to students
who may not have been approached by the college previously. Students participating are mostly juniors and seniors who have cars
and a better knowledge of the Training Corps than underclassmen. Those participating receive $25 a day plus mileage for every
trip.
