Page Six
December 17, 1971

The Davidsonian

Cat Cagers Tackle Mounties Tonight

Rebounding off a conference rout of Richmond, the ‘Cats go into Johnston Gym to face the Appalachian Mountaineers tonight.

The Apps are the newest team in the conference. They were voted into the conference this year, but will not
play enough varsity cage games to be listed in the standings, although they will fill a spot at the tournament.

The Apps have all five of their last year’s players returning. That team posted only an 8-16 season. The Mountaineers
have a team that is roughly the size of the Wildcats, with several men around 6-6, but no really big
man. The forecourt will likely be filled by a pair of sophomores, Charlie Barnes, 5-11, and 6-2 Stan Davis. Barnes
led the team scoring last year, hitting 24 a game, followed by Davis with 22. These two sophomores will share
their positions with two returning guards, 5-10 Parker and 6-0 Bob Tate. Tate led the varsity scoring last year with
12 points a game.

The biggest man for the Mountaineers is also a sophomore. 6-7 Larry Dudas is almost assured of a starting position
because of his size and height. Last year, Dudas’ height forced Coach Carry Light to move last year's center, John
Rutt, to a forward position. Rutt hit nine points a game last year, while Dudas averaged 15 for the freshmen
with 11 rebounds. These big men are backed up by Rick Dermott, a junior college transfer from Rick Mor-College.

The other forward position is being shared by three midsized men, 6-6 Jake Lane, 6-5 Wah Turner, and 6-4 Edwin
Hill. Turner and Lane are both lettermen.

After the Appalachian game, the ‘Cats will travel to Raleigh to tackle the N.C. State team. Following Christmas, they will
return to Charlotte for the Charlotte New Year's Invitational Tournament. The cagers will play their first home game of 1972,
meeting William and Mary at Johnston Gym.

The Furman Paladins may take the Southern Conference lead tonight. The Paladins downed the ‘Cats two weeks ago before the
‘Cats upset William and Mary.

By FRANK SOOS
Staff Writer

Just about the time that Davidson fans settled down to the idea of another year of mediocre basketball, the ‘Cats
get a 106-85 win over Richmond Tuesday night. This was the first inkling many fans had of what was waiting
in the wings—a team that has, or perhaps...

Forgetting Rocky and his friends (that was all in fun), the ‘Cats started the real season with Clemson at Charlotte
last Saturday night. The game was ragged for both teams as season openers are wont to be. Clemson was young
too, with player talent like David Angel. Otherwise, they didn’t look that good. Still, the Tigers stayed with the ‘Cats
until late in the first half. The second half came around in the same muddled manner as the first half
had. Then came a brief period where the ‘Cats did everything well but score. Considering the size and shape of
Davidson's personnel, they ran consistently. They stole the ball and scored. This was what everyone was anticipating. The ‘Cats came
together in the second half to run and finally clobber the Tigers. The openers left some really good basketball just
around the corner.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

and Clemson gave a promise to things but questions. We inside real teams. (Clemson is another team with Angel as
it was most of the time). Secondly, why didn't the offense get John Falconi and the ball in scoring position?
East Carolina proved to be a bad dream. Listening to the radio and then the stats made the ‘Cats wonder
if they shouldn't shoot from the outside. Could they come against S$O-SO in the next game? Viewing the earlier game,
I wondered (billed as “Cats shooters”) why Falconi, Sutter, et al. didn't get the ball in the basket. The humiliation
wasn't by a team that was supposed to be so good. All the ECU game did was leave us here
at Davidson quaking about the upcoming Furman game. And it sent everyone to the ticket office to buy a phenomenal
number of date tickets. Suddenly, everybody became very vocal about our long-standing win streak in Johnston Gym. The whole campus
was whistling the graveyard symphony, supposedly setting the fans up for it. Furman arrived complete with a 7-foot freshman center
and a truckload of mop-haired players. They weren't impressive (I mean they didn’t look like a top team in the
country). The freshman win seemed to give the fans a little confidence that they almost held through the end of
the game. Mike Sorrentino started against the Paladins all alone. He, like all the rest, couldn't hit a shot but
his passes, bouncing off various parts of his startled teammates’ anatomy, were the only bright spot for the ‘Cats.

The Davidson defense was fair. Surprisingly enough, we could have won the thing if we had hit only 40% of
our shots. We didn't, they did. John Pecorak gave it the old spirit of '76 trying to save the win
streak and only got a flagrant foul and ejection from the game. It was that kind of night. At any
rate, the pressure was definitely off at Richmond. Falconi and Sutter scored with both shooting over 50%. Minkin and Pecorak
didn’t foul out. We went to the boards. (The score does speak for itself). Now, hopefully, people will stop looking
for the familiar faces and let the new ones play it their way. Actually, losing in Johnston Gym might be
good.

Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads
Phone 376-2576
Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.

DEAL'S RESTAURANT AND GRILL
663-4141
Miles North of Davidson
Steaks — Seafood — Plate Lunches — Sandwiches
6 a.m. ’til Midnight
Closed Monday
