WHENEVER the horse stopped (which it did very often), he fell off in front; and, whenever it went on again
(which it generally did rather suddenly), he fell off behind. Otherwise, he kept on pretty well, except that he had
a habit of now and then falling off sideways; and, as he generally did this on the side on which
Alice was walking, she soon found that it was the best plan not to walk quite close to the horse.
—"Through the Looking Glass”

JOE SMITH | The Davidsonian
February 12, 1971
Page Five

Upchurch On Women’s Lib

My experience as a participant in the Queens Symposium on “the woman question” revealed to me the need for a
clear understanding of the issue among men, while leaving me curiously talked-out on the subject. This being the case, I
am happy to yield to the less befuddled intellect of senior Jim Upchurch, whose views on the implications of feminism
follow.

‘Kate Millett has balls’

The first quick glance at the guy's shaken and uncertain face betrayed that sentence for what it was: an unconscious
admission that Millett’s reasonably balanced and generally persuasive Queens lecture, followed by a lively interrogation-and-response session, had knocked the rationalizations
out from under his prejudices and left him staggering beneath their insupportable weight. His only available response, for the time
being, was the contemptibly inevitable ad hominem (ad feminam?) argument of libelous ridicule. The remark drew dutiful laughter from his
equally uncomfortable buddies; they retreated quickly to the refreshment table, which stolidly supported a punch-and-cookie offering arranged in the finest
American Hostess tradition.

I suppose most Davidson gentlemen half expected Millett to be a screamer, a radical Valkyrie whose hysterical irrationalities would leave
our smugness unscathed, even reinforced. But the woman refused to submit to our expectations. She read, in a warmly professorial
style, from a prepared text. Her digressions never fell below the high tone of her recitations. She has been a
teacher of English, and so we pounced with pedantic savagery on her errors in diction and grammar (“building on this
superstructure”; “irregardless...”). Intellectually unrespectable. But when she was finished I think many of us had glimpsed the basic truth that
underlies her occasionally insupportable assertions.

Ms. Millett is one of those fortunates who have such a firm hold on the essential truth of the situation
that most criticism begins to seem like quibbling. She reduces biological differences between the sexes to inconsequential matters of structure,
in which she is probably mistaken; I find it hard...

Computer Ballots Invented
By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

Regardless of your political perspective, one good thing has come out of the student elections this term. Assistant Professor of
Mathematics Jerry Roberts has verified with the...‘Computer an invention all his own - - - the student ballots which people
marked in the past few weeks. The ballots are nothing more than sheets with simple grids on them, but in
the computer room, they serve as forms for the scanner unit. And they work. Roberts said he was “surprised that
no one had thought of it before,” but the Optical Scanning Company, which supplies the paper materials and forms for
the college computer, is now interested, very interested. This company produces standard forms in large volumes for colleges, such as
multiple-choice sheets, grade report forms, and registration sheets, but it had never encountered the problem of the small volume use
of forms.

Roberts’ experiment demonstrated that small-volume production of computer forms is practical and economical. He said that getting such a small
order from the company was too costly, so last summer he began kicking around a few money-saving ideas. The elections
offered him an excellent opportunity to test his experiment with some sample ballots, and despite minor tears (which is normal
abuse for a scanner) the forms worked perfectly. “They say necessity is the mother of invention,” Roberts said, “and I
could just see that there were a lot of forms, too expensive to purchase, that we needed. What these forms
do is essentially to provide for us a means for getting more out of the machine.”

With these new forms, election results and other small questionnaire materials can be evaluated in several minutes. The only thing
that has to be done beforehand is to print the material onto the forms and add a few grid marks
for lining up the sheets with the scanner.

Many colleges today, according to Roberts, are turning to the computer as a time saver in cumbersome administrative situations where
such things as grade reports must be evaluated in a few days for thousands of students. The Optical Scanning Company
plans to begin stocking small-volume forms now in addition to their regular bulk supply of other standard forms. But does
Roberts want to copyright this discovery, does he want to turn over a few coins, make a little jack? No.
“The college is not in a profit-making position,” he stated, “and I have no need for anything of that sort.
But if anyone else is interested, more power to them.” He made this last remark with an upward gesture of
both arms, almost grinning. He really didn’t care. He really didn’t.

Our society tends to believe that menstruation, pregnancy, gestation, and childbirth in themselves have no more effect on a person's
personality and character than a haircut. But such differences, if they exist, do not justify the way it is stacked
against independent and creative women. She reduces marriage to an economic exchange (hot kisses and housekeeping for bread), which does
not square with my own observation; but that Marxist element is in there somewhere, and maybe responsible for the creation
of those self-effacingly dependent, neurotic bovines that too many housewives become.

I think Ms. Millett has been accurate in the general outlines of her historical perspective, locating us on the crest
of a second wave of feminism, the first breaker having crashed and dissolved with the end of the suffrage movement.
So: given Kate Millett and her movement, what do we do? There seems to be little point in reiterating what
Irving Howe calls the “transparently just” demands of the movement: equal employment and wages, day-care centers for working mothers, an
end to discrimination in higher education, and the like. What interests me are the ethical and psychological demands that this
revolution is making on men, those suggestions about discarding our artificial social roles and the patronizing attitudes we have toward
women. Treat women as equals? Repeat the phrase; draw the idea out to its fullest consequences; now notice the reflexive
attempt to withdraw your testicles from their vulnerable position. Can we learn to listen to women “with our whole selves”
instead of just the un-preoccupied part? Can we learn to take their opinions seriously, to recognize when we are mistaken
without feeling unmanned? Can we allow women to seek fulfillment in something beyond attending to our comforts? Can we acknowledge
their human identity, which includes but is more than their sexual identity?

A few months ago I had satisfied myself that I was up to these things, at least in theory. But
what of the real-life situation? Imagine yourself, a prosperous doctor or lawyer, who has liberated himself and his wife enough
to be happy that she has found additional fulfillment outside the home. Now, O archetypal white liberal, imagine the day
when she is offered a better job at higher pay—in another city. If you assume that she will make the
sacrifice instead of you... Think about it.
