~The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR SEPTEMBER 17, 1971

From Here On Out Big Brother Is Us

Things, at least for the moment, appear to be looking up for the Davidson students. After several years of facing
a lack of real concern from powers-that-be, members of the student body are actually being given positions of responsibility in
governing their own lives.

The latest positive actions by college authorities concern the creation of the positions of residence hall managers and the first
step in the opening of the Admissions and the Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee to student members. The potential committee
openings are especially significant, for they mark a successful culmination to an enduring student drive for representation that has lasted
for years. Even the most embittered cynics at Davidson cannot in good faith fail to realize that the faculty has
done the students a real service by recognizing our potential.

The new residence hall manager position, too, seems to have been created with the students’ interests in mind. Rather than
facing the continual “light-checking” raids of a Sgt. Penley or even stricter enforcement, the students now are under the more
tolerant and understanding eye of their peers, and will in all probability receive a more realistic deal concerning dorm maintenance
and enforcement.

Who’s Minding The Mint?

Comprehensive Tuition: The initial reading of the amendments in the faculty meeting this week and the vote of approval which
it received is certainly a welcome sign. It is encouraging to find that the faculty, long a group which had
advocated extreme separation of powers, is willing to allow students to have a voice in committee decisions, which often affect
the students directly.

At the same time, however, the college administration has notified parents and underclassmen of the projected comprehensive fee which will
take effect in the fall. As it has initially been stated, the comprehensive fee may well be the most regulatory
tactic that Davidson has developed in recent years. We have not worked with the business office to find out the
precise nature of the problems which have led them to adopt this new method of bill collection.

There is a very definite danger to student interests in such a plan. The students do not know where the
dollars which they pay go until they get a chance to see a college budget. The activities fee will be
incorporated into the comprehensive fee, making the college, and not the student senate, the distributor of monies for publications and
organizations. In effect, it may become a weapon if the administration wants it to be. This is not our immediate
fear, but it could be of tremendous import at a later date.

If room and board are included in the comprehensive fee, the college will be directly controlling the variety of life
styles open to students. Although recent court cases have reaffirmed the legal right of the college to require all students
to live on campus, we do not think that Davidson should accept this sort of outright control. We hope that
the college will think enough of its commitment to creating mature individuals that it will allow them to make some
choices on their own in their four years at Davidson.

Meet The New Long-line

As you may or may not have noticed (this paragraph should have given you a clue), the paper this week
has been set on wider columns. It makes for a great deal for the readers, 10% more words at no
additional cost.

CECIL BURNEY

Faculty Heresies

Many years ago, when Davidson College was much smaller and its faculty was composed largely of Presbyterian ministers, almost all
the student violations of college rules were recorded with great care in the faculty minutes. The faculty was charged with
the power to enforce all such college rules, and looking through its minutes brings up some interesting facts about the
kinds of students who used to study (or not study, as the case may have been) here.

It seems that drunkenness has always been a favorite pastime of the mischievous student at Davidson. The first public record
of this is found in the early months of 1844 in the minutes where it is recorded that a student
was suspended indefinitely “for the crime of drunkenness.” This was but the first of many such suspensions of those who
“had repeatedly been indulging in the intemperate use of ardent spirits.”

Damage done to dormitory rooms has a long history here, too. As early as 1845 it was recorded thatThree students
were suspended indefinitely "on the charge of stoning some other students' rooms and of being disorderly in other ways." It
is interesting to note, however, that students at Davidson in those days also occasionally destroyed entire buildings. It is noted
that one such building was demolished on this campus during a "riot" in 1854, although it is not clear from
the minutes exactly why this was done. Mischievous tricks and pranks were played by many students during the early history
of this College. The most notable of these happened in 1851 when one student put some gunpowder into another student's
candle snuffers, thus causing considerable explosions late at night.

The years 1861-1865 were rough ones for the College in terms of student conduct, perhaps because most "good-mannered" students had
left the College to fight for the Confederate States in the Civil War, thus leaving behind many who were not
as "orderly" in their ways. In 1862, for example, several students were accused of throwing rocks at a professor’s house.
Shortly thereafter, several students were accused of throwing "brickbats" from the dormitory windows. Brickbats, however, were not the only things
to come out of those dormitory windows. On March 18, 1864, a student confessed to being guilty of the charge
"of having defiled the window in the South end of the second story by using it for dirty and filthy
purposes." A similar story was recorded in 1863. Two faculty members, patrolling the grounds of the College late at night,
noticed that a light was carried from a room on the second floor to an empty room on the third
floor. Upon inspection of the third-floor room the next morning, "it was discovered to have been used as a privy,
and very much defiled. On examining, other rooms were also found to be used in the same way."

Some students in the current generation must think that the use of special pipes for smoking purposes is a recent
invention, but, alas, in 1863 several ingenious Davidson students broke into a classroom and stole a piece of rubber pipe
and a piece of glass tubing which were joined together for the purpose of smoking. Pipe smoking in classrooms was
quite illegal in those days, and on one morning in 1863 a student was seen smoking while entering a classroom
by the President of the College. The President grabbed him by the arm and snatched the pipe from him. The
student ran away from the President and began cursing wildly. The faculty decided to dismiss the unruly student from school.

Students were known to call illegal meetings occasionally, in spite of warnings from College officials. Some of these meetings were
for political purposes, but on one occasion a phrenologist proposed to several students that he be allowed to address the
student body in a series of six lectures. The students asked if a college building could be used for this
purpose, but "the Faculty decided unanimously that the request should not be granted." The lectures were then held in another
building without the Faculty’s knowledge. When this was discovered, all the students involved were severely admonished for their behavior.

Minutes Record of Past Students

In February 1863, one student received permission to go to Charlotte "to place himself under the care of the Physicians
there, to be cured of some disease which he said he had had for some time." The President of the
College asked the boy’s doctors about the illness and discovered that the boy had a form of venereal disease. The
boy was promptly sent home.

In almost all these cases, students were suspended for their activities. In thinking about today's students and administrators, we can
see some parallels which exist with the past. Students try to express themselves in spontaneous, energetic, and flexible ways. Some
administrators and faculty members, however, find it difficult to allow students to have their own feelings or fantasy, and they
continually try to keep students from doing things which the "old guard" does not approve. Many years of experience have
shown that youth in this country is forced to conform to standards which it does not understand, and, as a
result, many students become numb to their real feelings and their real joys. It would be a good thing if
Davidson, in contrast, could begin to help students express themselves more fully and individually and not be so concerned with
making everybody act in the same way. Perhaps then, by following the example of faculty and administrators who are sensitive
and accept people, students can become the kinds of people this world needs most.
