Page Six October 22, 1971

“What Do You Mean, The ‘Flying Burrito Bros.’ Are Not A High Wire Act?”

Big Weekends Still Enjoy Popularity

AN ANALYSIS By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor

The Davidson syndrome about big weekends is a growing one. It begins with the wide-eyed freshman who wants “to keep
Homecoming like it is” and continues with the upperclassman who views Spring Frolics as a rinky-dink 72-hour orgy of computerized
entertainment. Both of the above viewpoints have a great deal of support, yet at the same time they also recognize
a need for some improvements over what big weekends now have to offer.

Since the paranoia in the dorms now is directed against suspicious-looking polls, what we did was to grab people at
the post office, the union, and at other strategic points on the campus to sample the ideas and the suggestions
of the “masses.” Herein are our findings.

Big-Name Bands Shadow Miniscule Social Budget

AN ANALYSIS By ALEC HOON Asst. Managing Editor

How about a super-jam featuring Gordon Lightfoot and a singing pig for Midwinters? This is just one possibility for an
upcoming big weekend at Davidson. The idea behind the big weekend, according to Director of the College Union C. Shaw
Smith, is “to do something different from anything that has been done before to bring people together to laugh and
enjoy themselves.”

Thus, the philosophy at Davidson toward the big weekend is different from those schools who plan a “big band” to
highlight the weekend activities. Operating on a budget of $24,000, which has to be stretched to cover all the concerts
at Davidson, the dances and mixers, and the cost of replacing equipment, the Social Council is not really capable of
financing the “heavies” that many students would like to see for Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring Frolics. James Taylor’s fee to
play at Davidson would now be $10,000 plus. Bands such as Jethro Tull, Three Dog Night, and Creedence Clearwater Revival
would go even higher than that.

Students who want to hear these bands are going to have to go either to someplace like the Charlotte Coliseum
which recently featured Jethro Tull, and who have engaged The Who for a concert in November, or to a school
like Duke which has the funds to bring some of the more prominent groups to play there. There is just
no way that Davidson can get these bands unless (a) the social council is given more funds to work with
(an unlikely possibility) or (b) all the eggs are put in one basket, and the money is used to secure
one band (which is equally unlikely).

In a recent poll sponsored by the Social Council, 83 percent of the students indicated a willingness to pay up
to two dollars extra to see a more expensive group play. Smith said that “it would be a good thing
to experiment with,” but that it was not a “panacea” for the situation. Chairman of the Social Council Duff Bruce
has said, “As far as I know I have the authority to collect an additional fee to obtain a group.”
“However, I am opposed to doing so because I feel that students have enough to pay for without any additional
expenses. Also, I think that we are doing a good job,” he added.

Looking at the situation hypothetically, if 1000 Davidson students paid two dollars for themselves, and if they all had dates
for whom they also paid two dollars, that would only add $4,000 additional outlay. This would not enable Davidson to
get the $20,000 plus bands that many so fervently want. But the additional $4,000 could permit the Social Council to
consider bands in the $7,000-$8,000 price range, such as Alice Cooper or the James Gang.

Bruce has expressed concern over the extravagance of the musical tastes of Davidson students. “A lot of people have expensive
tastes; but we don’t have the money to sate these people's wishes.” “We know of a lot of talent which
is not big time. We try to catch people on the way up. Our philosophy is that the less you
put out for big things, the more little groups you can have,” he added.

This policy has had several notable successes over the past few years. The Social Council has brought Chicago and The
Guess Who to Davidson just before they became nationally prominent. Also, as Smith noted, “There is something going on practically
every weekend. All you have to do is look at the schedule.”

In showing a willingness to promote smaller acts, the Social Council has established good rapport with many of those groups
who appreciate the chance Davidson has given them. They often reciprocate in kind. For example, the act Trilogy is returning
to Davidson to give a free performance on Sunday night.

None of this, however, will satisfy those who want to hear “the really big groups” here at Davidson. What they
will have to do is either listen to their favorite bands on stereo systems, or go to the big concert
halls and get ripped off for $4, $5, or $6 a head. Incidentally, those who want to see Lightfoot and
the singing pig jam should...See Shaw Smith. The majority of students still prefer to keep the tradition of big weekends.
The numbers dwindle in the upper classes, but the lower classes are relatively solid in their support of one big
blast per term.

Suggestions from the group as to improvements which could be made are extensive. The biggest complaint, of course, is the
lack of big-name entertainment, especially with respect to rock groups. Most students feel that they are getting a raw deal
on entertainment, despite their awareness of limitations in the social budget. Almost all of those who registered this complaint, however,
said that they would be willing to pay an extra dollar or two dollars at the door if it meant
the difference between getting a group like “Poco” and a group like “Chicago.” Without exception, students responded with terms like
“absolutely” or “definitely” to extra fees at the door, with some willing to pay as much as five dollars per
couple.

One student mentioned the possibility of opening big-name concerts on campus to the public for a fee comparable to what
might be charged in the Charlotte Coliseum. This kind of subsidizing, however, could cause serious seating problems with the enlarged
crowds and the management of such an operation could become complex, but the money for big-name entertainment would at least
then be available.

Senior Howard Ramagli, Union Board manager for the Hungry I, commented on the concept of a big weekend: “I think
we need a whole weekend of activities at least once a term in which a student can lose himself. That
doesn’t mean that we’re necessarily going to program something every hour of the day though.

“If people want to argue for more weekends on a smaller scope than a big weekend, it just won’t stick.
So far this year we've had something planned every weekend, and there’s no way to break down the entertainment any
more than that.”

Ramagli added that he thought big weekends should have some direct meaning for the student. For this reason, he said
that he would like to see Homecoming, which usually comes at the end of the term, changed to a Fall
weekend sometime in the middle of the term. Then it would be for the students and not just a few
nostalgic alumni.

The majority of opposition to big weekends came from the veterans in the upper classes. This disillusioned crew feels that
ferris wheels, fatigue, and vaudeville folderol provide little real entertainment for the mature college individual.

“I think that this kind of hectic movement over a period of three days is worthless,” said one senior. “If
you had a series of small weekends in place of one big one, the advantages are obvious.

“For one thing,” he continued, “you would have more excuses for getting dates out here on weekends without bribing your
baby back in L.A. down here on an airplane for three days.”

Another senior remarked, “Look at what it would do for the community. There would be fewer people leaving on weekends,
which would promote a more stable, homogeneous social life for the entire campus.”

Other students chimed in with similar remarks, such as “more beer in the spring,” “fewer road trips,” or “less of
a suitcase college image.”

The nature of the entertainment itself is the primary source of all gripes about big weekends. Basically, the weekend now
is oriented around pure social enjoyment. Every now and then an opera or a “Mark Twain Tonight” is thrown in
for the sake of variety as much as its cultural value.

When students were asked whether or not they would prefer more entertainment along the lines of art, drama, classical music,
the opera, etc., a majority still preferred to keep the weight of activities in the social realm. One student commented,
“I think the cultural aspect at Davidson is already filled. We have enough already, and I don’t see any reason
to keep cramming it down our throats even on a weekend.”

One senior stated his preference this way: “Being basically anti-social, I'll go with the cultural activities any day over the
social.”

The surprising figures concerning cultural activities came from the freshmen class. A large minority of those questioned were very receptive
to the idea of more cultural activities on a weekend.

The failure of big weekends, then, comes down to three basic needs on this campus. The first is money—money to
purchase big-name entertainment, money to provide cultural activities as well as social, without economizing one for the other. The second
need is entertainment—be it social or cultural—which appeals to the attitudes and the maturity of the Davidson student. Pseudo-sophisticated cultural
activities or thumb-sucking carnival goodies are outside of the realm of appeal to most students here. Finally, big weekends must
embody a special meaning for the Davidson student. The rallying point for the student body to engage in three days
of entertainment must be more than a date on a calendar which just happens to be convenient.

In this manner, Davidson College might one day complement its academic prestige with a social life that is just as
important a source of campus pride.
