Che Bauvidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
—Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR OCTOBER 15, 1971

The Affluent Senate

The allocation procedure for the student activity fee annually raises questions not only of who deserves how much money for what, but also that of who gets the money. One difficulty which we see in the composition of the board, is that the student delegation is composed entirely of senate members. This may be seen as a complication when the organizations to be funded are considered. Of the $37,625 appropriated this year, $6000 was allocated to the senate itself. In size of appropriation this ranks third, well behind the sum for the Quips and Cranks and close to the funds for THE DAVIDSONIAN.

This year’s senate budget is up almost $2000 over last year’s. This is not to be taken as a criticism of the senate’s 1971-72 budget. The additional expense is the amount necessary to bring Dr. Meridith Hall to Davidson under student funding, an undertaking which we have supported in the past and which we continue to endorse. Our question lies in the absence of any system of checks on the senate’s ability to appropriate funds for projects which they initiate. The same senators who propose projects in the senate meetings late Tuesday nights are the people who decide where the money goes in the fall. Short of a referendum on each issue, hardly an efficient method of conducting a student government, the student body’s last voice in what projects the senate decides to fund comes in the election for senators.

In addition, the senate controls nearly all of the funds available for sponsoring student speakers. Although the response from the senate for requests for these funds has been commendable in the past, the recent votes on funds for the moratorium speakers and for the YAF speaker have shown that several senators are unwilling to appropriate funds for speakers who run counter to their ideological tastes. Our suggestion to the senate would be to appoint non-senate members, with as few ties to the organizations seeking funds as possible, to the fee committee. In addition, we would urge campus organizations which regularly bring speakers to campus under senate funding to budget an amount for such speakers so that speaker control may become more decentralized than it is at present.

War And Peace

On the whole, the peace moratoriums of recent months have not been particularly educational, entertaining, or even innovative. Rather, they have dedicated their energies toward other goals, attempting—usually successfully—to stimulate, invigorate, and initiate some form of mass response against the conflict in Southeast Asia. Such programs have usually been exciting and at times inspiring, but over an extended period of time uninformed and irresponsible enthusiasm has a tendency to be transformed into either useless rhetoric or frustrated and bitter violence, especially when no real accomplishment is apparent.

Therefore, the low-key approach of Wednesday’s moratorium activities was welcomed, for it offered to the Davidson community the chance to sit back and deeply evaluate and reflect upon the questions of war and peace and the specific, historical manifestations of these problems. To be sure, Wednesday’s activities were less exciting than those of the past. There was less esprit de corps, less destructive cynicism, less of the paranoic spirit of revolt, less interest and less participation. But perhaps these shortcomings, obvious after previous moratoriums of hot-headed rhetoric and unthinking clenched-fist salutes, were advantageous this year, for the freedom they granted allowed an impressive amount of rational and responsible reflection and a deeper consideration of the alternatives to war.

The moratorium had a different purpose, a different approach, a different perspective, and a different structure from previous moratoriums. Rather than rallying its participants like sheep around the banner to end war, especially the war in Vietnam, Wednesday’s activities merely attempted to maintain an active awareness of the war and its manifestations. To a generation now tired of empty epithets and worthless confrontations, such is certainly a relief.

The moratorium, then, must be considered a success. Besides awakening and renewing a concern for the war, it also brought to the campus several outside perspectives, making the apathetic students of our isolated community alive again to the question of war. In short, Wednesday’s moratorium experience was a mature, realistic, and hopefully effective movement toward peace.

HOWARD RAMAGLI

Education ‘Game’ Needs Change In Ground Rules

As the middle of the term approaches, many have already been faced with the academic exercises of reviews and papers. Accompanying these activities is the cry of the Honor System against cheating and plagiarism. Realistically speaking, one must consider the reason (or reasons) that violations of the sacred Honor Code occur. It is safe to assume that the motive is not the result of a desire to learn, but rather the result of a desire to make a grade. Students have been conditioned to believe that their real worth as intellectual achievers is measured by their ability to make a particular grade. They have also been conditioned to believe that it is the teacher who is the best judge of the student's intellectual prowess. Unfortunately, teachers are conditioned to believe that the best method of evaluation is the test (accompanied by a grade that gives the student a “true” picture of his ability to learn). Thus education has become a game. The game is modeled after the American ideal of competition. The competition is supposedly between students who want the highest grades, but really the competition is between the professor and the student. The ground rules are very simple. The professor knows all and if the studentdoesn’t know it the way the professor knows it, he loses. The classroom is the playing field and the test is the method of play. The grade is the incentive for learning, and the goal of the game is supposed to be learning. The goal is not learning, for the grade has become the alpha and omega of the game. Education must stop being a game. It must again become the medium through which people can obtain the skills for life-long learning. And education must become personalized. An evaluation system must be designed in which the student and the teacher are partners. The evaluation must become more subjective and take into account what the student desires to learn, as well as what the professor feels would be beneficial to the student. However, this evaluation system requires more than just the change in evaluation of an individual’s intellectual progress. It necessitates that students should have the opportunity to design their own educational program. Not all students know what they want out of education. For these students, some form of structured program is good. Students who have some idea of where they wish to go educationally should not be penalized by being forced into a structured program which does not appeal to them. There should be some process in the educational system which will allow a student to design his educational program. At present there are few such opportunities available. Too often these opportunities have so many obscure qualifying paraphernalia that few students can benefit from the programs. Any evaluation of a student's work, whether he has designed the program or it is an already structured program, must be a joint effort of the student and the professor. There is no value in a test, graded or ungraded, that provides the student with no feedback as to how well he is learning. The blame for the “grading game” does not lie wholly on the teachers in the educational system. In fact, more of the blame lies upon those participants in education, the students.

TODD HOBBIE

Students are so grade-conscious that they no longer see the real value of education. They have no concept of the power they hold to challenge the educational system to provide them with the kind of education they want. Students pay their money to let some institution tell them what they should learn. Educational institutions should provide services to aid in the educational growth of an individual. They should not prescribe what is good for the student. Students should demand accountability in educational institutions in satisfying the individual needs of every learner. After all, students pay for four years of education in a college so that they can obtain a piece of paper which qualifies them to become a member of the human race. The college should give the student the opportunity to choose his path to becoming a human being.

Detached Action Works Wonders

Until about a week ago I was beginning to really worry about myself. My ego was rapidly deteriorating and along with that any sparks of motivation were few and far between. The most I could get excited about was drinking a Shurfine Cola, smoking a King Edward, and watching Bela Lugosi on the late show. This week is no different from last week except in one very important respect. I’ve discovered a whole new approach to life and my ego has been reported to be breathing again. I suppose at this point I could say that I was “saved” last week and that's why life has new meaning for me, but that's not what I’m going to say. That wouldn't be any of your business anyway. Last week I discovered detached action and that’s why life has new meaning. Detached action is a philosophy of life which, simply put, states that all actions should be made without concern for their results. In other words, according to this philosophy all goals are wiped out and only the action itself is important. Now, I hasten to add that I'm putting a little of my own slant on this philosophy of action and the Hindu people who adhere to this philosophy probably would not approve of its application here. Nevertheless, it’s done wonders for me and I recommend my type of detached action to everyone. Just think of the possibilities. Imagine writing a paper or taking an exam without being concerned with the grade. Imagine applying to a grad school and not caring whether you get in or not. Imagine taking a six-day weekend without worrying about missing anything in class or getting behind. It is really unbelievable how many really fine benefits this philosophy could make possible. However, there is one basic problem that one must remember when adopting this philosophy, that is, it doesn't work. But anyone who is a senior at Davidson knows that this is a very minor problem. This philosophy at Davidson, with a different name, hasn’t worked for years and still it’s one of the most popular philosophies on campus today. For many years it’s been known as the Don't-Give-a-Damn Method of Life, but that’s entirely too negative a title for such a viable yet impractical philosophy. I will conclude without giving a hint as to how detached action should be applied. I happen to think that is a very personal matter. Besides, I don’t want to be responsible for half the student body flunking out. Let it be sufficient for me to say that there is a golden mean somewhere between “gung-ho” and my “detached action.” Find that golden mean and you've got it made. By the way, I don’t care what you think about this column.