Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

EYES ON THE BALL
Cannon II's Raybun Williams swings away in IMAC play. (Staff photo by Doty)

IMAC Games Feature Forfeits, High Scores

It was a week for forfeits, high scores, and tight games in IMAC play. Wednesday, the Delts edged out the
Sigs 16-15 with a last-inning rally. Dave Mast led the victors through the see-saw match. The Delts were down 10-4
in the third and then pulled ahead 11-10. The Sigs, led by John Harper, regained the lead, but the Delts
knocked in six runs in the bottom of the seventh to win the match.

Bill McIlwain led Watts-Belk to a 19-14 victory over freshman competition Cannon I. Pete Celentano led the losers. The Gamms
squeaked by the Indies with a seventh-inning hitting barrage. Going into the seventh, the Indies led 15-10, but the Gamms
scored six runs to win 16-15. Harold Bailey hit a homer for the victors. Bo Wood eased the KAs by
Alec "Hawk" Hoon and East I 15-14. The Sigs beat the SAEs 10-0, and the PiKaps forfeited to the Snus.

In a tight defensive game, the Machis contained the Taus 5-2. Phil Dotts led the Machis with the tough defensive
play of Herb Clegg and Walt Wal backing him. Jim Roy pitched for the losers with the defensive aid of
Mort Chiles. The SPEs slaughtered the Betas 19-3, and the Sigs downed East II 16-11.

Last Thursday was a good day for forfeits, with the Pi Kaps losing to the Taus and officially the Snus
giving in to Cannon II. The Snu-Cannon II game was played by the Snus, with the Snus winning 9-8. Various
senior players made up the Snus team. Merritt pitched for the Snus and hit a grand slam. In the last
inning, the team rallied when Greg Johnson tripled, hitting in three runs, and then scored for the win.

The KAs beat W-B 11-9, and the Es downed East I 11-4. In other action, the Betas blanked the KAs
4-0, and East II outran Cannon II 12-8.

The Davidsonian
April 23, 1971
Page Seven

Scott To Propose Fall Golf Season
By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

At the meeting of the Southern Conference in May, Davidson Athletic Director and golf coach Tom Scott will propose the
addition of a fall golf season. Included in this fall session would be two or three tournaments or matches, plus
the first round of the Southern Conference tournament.

"A fall season actually is quite logical," commented Scott, "because the weather is better, the courses are in better condition,
and the boys are also in top shape, having played all summer." The team thus far has had one match
snowed out, and another was played in cold, rainy weather. The new format would also lengthen the season, which is
now confined to the month of April, due to conflicts with other conference members. Scott believes the teams often do
not perform up to their capabilities because the conference meet is too early. "The long winter layover forces the boys
to start anew, but in the fall their game should be at its best," he said.said, Scott also believes the
division of the conference tournament, with two rounds in the fall and two in the spring, would be beneficial. This
weekend the team is competing in one of the largest tournaments in the South, the first annual Chris Schenkel Invitational
at Statesboro, Ga. The competition will be tremendously tough. Miami, Georgia, and Florida, considered by Scott to be among the
top ten in the country, will all be playing there. Last week, the Wildcats played a tough North Carolina squad,
and while going to defeat, they played their best golf this year. The top five men for Davidson averaged 75,
with freshmen Jim Ray and Dick Spinner each shooting 74's.

Every Saturday
8:30
HOMEMADE BAKED GOODS
Mrs. Ralph Knox
2:00 of all kinds
Main St., in Sadler Bldg.
(Just down from the bank.)
Phone orders: 892-8564
(On Highway 21)

The Dogwood
MOTEL AND RESTAURANT
FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

Here’s a government position with a real future for both men and women. An officer's job in the Air Force.
A management level job in anybody's book. Certainly, there’s no better way to get the experience and training needed for
executive responsibility. If you have two years of college remaining, you could find yourself earning an Air Force commission while
you learn, through the Air Force ROTC two-year program. Along with college credits and a commission, you'll receive $50 each
month as a student. And upon graduation, that management position we promised will be waiting for you. If an advanced
degree is in your plans, you'll be happy to learn that the Air Force has a number of outstanding programs
to help you further your education.

If you're in your final year of college, you can get your commission through the Air Force Officer Training Program.
It is open to all college grads, both men and women, who qualify. Check it out. You'll find that the
Air Force is one career that offers something for everyone. Nearly 430 different jobs, ranging from aeronautical engineering to zoology,
with almost everything else, including flying, in between. But whatever your duties, you'll soon discover that the Air Force will
let you move just as far and as fast as your talents can take you. So look ahead and let
your college years pay off for you with a managerial position in the U.S. Air Force. Just send in this
coupon or write to USAF Military Personnel Center, Dept. A, Randolph AFB, Texas 78148, and get your postgraduate career off
the ground.

Find yourself in the United States Air Force.

USAF Military Personnel Center
Dept. A
Randolph AFB, Texas 78148

Please send me more information on:
[ ] Officer Training School
[ ] Air Force ROTC Program

NAME
AGE (please print)
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE
ZIP
PHONE
DATE OF GRADUATION
SCHOOL

I understand there is no obligation.
