The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR OCTOBER 29, 1971

Davidson: 1984

A potentially dangerous situation has arisen in the area of college governance in the form of the new by-laws proposed
last week by the Board of Trustees. These new by-laws to the college constitution would give the college president an
overwhelming amount of power and authority. Under the new rules, the president would be given the power to suspend (but
not veto) any action of any campus organization, be it student or faculty. Furthermore, all campus organizations must, under the
new by-laws, be chartered by the president, giving that office the near-absolute power of deciding just what groups may exist
at Davidson.

Already one professor has informed us that he plans to take legal action against the college for setting up so
undemocratic a government. We are sympathetic with his interests and support him completely, although our more immediate and specific concerns
are with the effects that a campus governmental structure would have on student organizations, especially those run completely by the
student. To give any individual so much power is to ask for trouble, particularly on a college campus where students
are learning how to become independent individuals. The new by-laws threaten us directly by giving to the president enough authority
to effectively hamper the actions of any campus organization. Censorship, control of the student voice, and loss of essential student
freedoms would not be far behind under such a system of governance. Therefore, we desperately urge the trustees to reconsider
such a policy for the sake of the college. For if one man is given such power, a great part
of what is good at Davidson will be lost.

Designs On The Library

As fun as it is to have surprises, last week’s decision by the Board of Trustees to delay the acceptance
of the library designs puts the pressure on to have new drawings ready in February. It seems clear that the
trustees were nonplussed at the design themselves, but the student and faculty reaction to the drawings had to have a
strong influence. The Library Planning Committee would be well advised to consider allowing the students and faculty, aside from those
on the committee, to help select the final plans next go around. In the spring it may be too late
for the trustees to send the plans back to the committee, no matter what the popular reaction.

Autonomy Versus RHC

Last week’s article on the “progress” of the Residence Hall Council (RHC) under the Alexander administration has raised questions about
the organization. Davidson has a large number of organizations, some of them fulfill useful roles. The RHC used to be
one of those useful organizations. Peter Hobbie initiated open dorms through the RHC. Tom Opie was the driving force behind
the renovation of the dorms and the creation of lounges in the freshman halls. Cecil Burney provided another agency for
social activity on campus through the dormitories.

We personally concur with the suggestion voiced in last week’s article that the RHC be dissolved and that residents’ councils
be set up in each dormitory. This system permits the residents of a particular dormitory to decide for themselves what
they want to do. If Belk wants to have an ice machine they can request student government funds for the
project. Under such a system, we would urge that the funds now allocated for the RHC be held by the
senate but be available, rather readily, when a particular dorm presents a project. This could be handled similar to the
Union’s Activity Grant Board.

There is no real good reason in our minds for the vice president of the student body to be RHC
president. Certainly, we can think of some other way to make the vice president a more contributing member of the
regular senate without creating special posts on special committees for him to fill. We would like to see a breakdown
of the expenditures of the Residence Hall Council for last spring since the money was indeed spent and there was
very little to show for it in terms of residence hall activities.

LETTER

Ligo Opposes Library Plans As Contrary To Sensibilities

To The Editor:

I am writing this letter in the hope that you will join me in my opposition to the proposed style
of the new Davidson College library. I was relieved to hear that the Board of Trustees found the architect’s plans
unacceptable but I am convinced that the architect should not simply “revise” his proposal, as requested by the Board, but
that he should start over again in an entirely different architectural style.

I believe that the new Davidson College library should reflect the developments that have been taking place in twentieth-century architecture
and that the library committee should be asked to reconsider its initial decision to make use of nineteenth-century forms. In
an open meeting in which the architect's proposal was made public for the first time, two basic arguments were offered
in defense of the architect’s choice of style.

In the first place, it was suggested that it was important that the building blend in with the other buildings
on campus: in other words, that the new building should not disrupt the architectural harmony that has been maintained throughout
nearly 150 years of Davidson's history. The second point of defense centered around the fact that the choice of style
is a matter of personal preference — that since everyone’s sensibilities are not the same, there were bound to be
those who disagreed with the Library Committee’s choice, but in questions of individual sensibility there are no absolutes, so that
every man’s (or committee’s) decision is just as valid as anyone else's.I agree in principle with the first line of
defense, that the architectural harmony of Davidson College should not be disrupted, but I would suggest that there is a
difference between harmony and monotony; and I would suggest further that a building could be designed that would reflect twentieth-century
trends in architecture, one that would not only "not disrupt" but actually enhance Davidson’s architectural harmony. I believe the second
argument to be a "straw man." While it is true that individual sensibilities cannot be judged on an objective scale
and are therefore incontestable, I do not believe that personal preference can or should be the determining factor. Architecture is
not only a matter of aesthetics, it is also a matter of ethics; and I believe the ethical question to
be a much more important consideration than personal preference.

I would suggest that architecture is, or at least should be, an art form. While it is true that architecture
as an art form must also serve certain practical needs, the fulfilling of these functional and technical requirements on the
part of the architect constitutes only two-thirds of his task. It may be that the proposal subjected for our consideration
fulfills the first two categories quite admirably, i.e. the functional and the technical. In my opinion, however, there is no
way in which the present proposal can adequately fulfill the third and most important requirement: i.e. the aesthetic. It is
the fulfilling of this third requirement that determines whether or not the finished product can be considered a true work
of art.

There are many definitions of the word "art," and there is much disagreement as to what constitutes its proper definition.
Regardless of the definition, however, if the art object is to fulfill the aesthetic requirement it must have a profound
effect upon the sensibilities of those who encounter it. If the so-called art object does not have this capability, then
it is not art. The reason that the proposed design for the library cannot, in my opinion, have a profound
effect upon the sensibilities of the Davidson community is that it simply reiterates the architectural statements that we already have
here.

It should go without saying that I am not suggesting that all "modern" architecture is "good." But to surround ourselves
with things that make us comfortable, that do not stimulate us, is to assert that we no longer wish to
grow.

Larry L. Ligo
Davidson College

---

TODD HOBBIE

Underclassmen Keep On Pledging

I was just sitting in the Union Cafeteria, minding my own business, when my eyes came to rest on an
object that I had assumed to exist no longer. There was no question that before my very eyes, pinned over
the heart of a freshman, was a fraternity pledge pin. What can I say? I guess I just didn’t read
THE DAVIDSONIAN well enough last year to really understand the new social setup.

The fact is, I've never been what you would call pro-fraternity and there have been times when I would have
liked to have taken an active part in burning Patterson Court and plowing the ashes under. But times have changed
and mild nausea replaces what was once latent violence. Now I don’t want anyone to get the wrong idea. Some
of my best friends are fraternity men. But these friends were faced with more of a dilemma when the decision
to join a fraternity reared its ugly, Greek, mystic head. At that time social life outside of a fraternity was
hard to come by. Independents were still looked upon as being misfits and semi-viable alternatives to fraternities were difficult to
find.

I guess what I’m trying to say is that there was a time when it was easy to be fooled
by a fraternity. It could happen to anybody. Now, it should not be so easy to be fooled. There are
alternatives and the alternatives are viable. With all due bias I think a freshman would have to be a fool
to join a fraternity at the present. And furthermore, I feel that in the future the question "Do you plan
to join a fraternity if accepted at Davidson?" should be placed on the application for admission. Any applicant answering in
the affirmative should be immediately dropped on the grounds that such inclinations are subversive to a progressive college community.

As I bring this column to a close I'd like to add a personal note. Few can understand the sadness
I feel on this occasion. For this marks the end of four great years in which my reason to be
has been centered around an overwhelming desire to see fraternities stomped, mangled, cleated, kicked, bludgeoned, gored, tortured and left to
die a slow painful death. Really, I never have liked fraternities much.
