Coeducation: A Battle Over Time

AN ANALYSIS By RICH WILSON Managing Editor

The students say now. The administration says—later. This seems to be the present status of coeducation as both enter the battle over timing. In the next few weeks, the Senate subcommittee on coeducation will wage a psychological battle with the administration in the hope that enough internal pressure can be applied to allow some form of coeducation next year.

Under the leadership of Reggie Kennedy, the committee has already begun its campaign by issuing a letter to the faculty and administration which proposes the conversion of Duke Dormitory to a residence hall for women next year. The students believe that this is a feasible primary step toward coeducation since it does not require new facilities and would not seriously affect the per-student cost. However, the student faculty argues that this proposal is merely a stop-gap measure. Bevan said that he felt the committee had oversimplified the matter of coeducation. Other administrative officials said that the proposal was short-sighted and did not show evidence of an overall plan for coeducation.

“The problem is that the administration has its own conception of how Davidson should go coed, and they refuse to accept alternatives,” said Student Body President Danny Clodfelter. “The result is a confusion which obstructs any movement toward coeducation at all,” he said.

While the students and administration are arguing, however, a new element is jumping—somewhat reluctantly—into the fray. The faculty Educational Policy Committee (EPC) has been charged by the president to develop their plan for coeducation.

So for the next few weeks, the EPC subcommittee composed of Assistant Professor of English Charles Cornwell, student Jody Turner, Assistant Professor of Biology David Grant, and Professor of Economics Charles Ratliff will research the problem and submit a report on how they think the college should go coed. This report will then be submitted to the faculty Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee which will determine the financial feasibility.

It is uncertain how much effect the faculty will have on the battle of coeducation timing, since it must be remembered that the two vice presidents...

Davidson College. Davidson, N. C. 28036

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students OCTOBER 8, 1971

YAF Chapter Gets $250 From Senate: Classes Not Suspended For Moratorium

By TOM BRUCE Staff Writer

A $250 grant to the Young Americans for Freedom, an eleventh-hour reversal on a motion to suspend classes for the October 13 Moratorium, and circulation of Todd Eades’ 8-page report on the Comprehensive fee dominated the Tuesday meeting of the SGA senate.

Davidson's local Young Americans for Freedom Chapter was assembled during the last week by Senior Robert Morey. The seven-member group was granted $250 to bring Mike Thompson to the campus on Moratorium Day. Thompson has published in the National Review and has made several trips to South Vietnam. Although his customary public speaking fee is $700, he comes to Davidson at a reduced rate because of the willingness of the National YAF organization to absorb some of the costs.

When pressed by the Senate to state the position of Young Americans for Freedom, Morey said, “We support the fight against Communism and seek victory in Vietnam with honor.” When Senator Cecil Burney introduced a point-of-order about the constitutionality of granting funds to a group who had not submitted a charter to the SGA, as required by Senate bylaws, this was overturned by President Danny Clodfelter who said that it was unfair to begin enforcing the rule which has been ignored for four years.

Freshman Gus Succop’s motion to move for suspension of class activities on the Oct. 13 moratorium date was approved early in the evening by a vote of 10-9. Arguments against the measure revolved around the fact that students would not be given a choice about attending classes, but would have to suffer from the resulting disruption. Succop argued that the Senate’s $500 investment in speakers warranted a suspension of classes so that every student could attend the programs. Peace Coalition representatives then assured the Senate that their speakers had been scheduled for non-class hours.

After the Senate agenda had been exhausted and motions had been tabled until next week, Junior Bill Meier, who had voted in favor of the class suspension, moved that the question be reconsidered. Meier stated that Ralph Peeples of the Peace Coalition did not feel that the proposal was...Desirable. A vote on the new motion reversed the original motion by a vote of 13 to 1, with three abstentions. Senate recommendations on the comprehensive fee recently instituted by the college for next year were delayed until next week in order to allow senators time to read a report on the matter compiled by Sophomore Todd Eades. The report recommends that the Senate favor the comprehensive fee with several reservations. A related letter to the SGA Senate from Clodfelter termed the decision to implement the fee as “one of the most poorly thought-through in recent memory.”

Other Senate action approved two new voting seats on the body. A Grey House representative and an off-campus member were provided for in an amendment ratified by the group. Senator Doug Brown was appointed to the Educational Policy Committee, while Don Parman and Robert Miles were named to the Queens-Davidson Committee. Parman will have voting power, and Miles will serve as an advisor. Jim Reynolds was elected to the Library Planning Committee.

Each chair the respective committees. So unless the faculty becomes excessively irritated this year, the final report of these committees will probably be relatively similar to the present administrative stand on the issue. Spencer said that the final report will be brought to the faculty for a vote and then passed on to the trustees who must also approve the plan. But the students will not be idle during this period. Various activities such as a coeducation week and demonstrations are in the planning stages.

And to continue the issue even further, a bill is presently to go before the House of Representatives which says that an institution which is in the process of shifting from a single-sex to a coeducational basis will be given seven years to make the transition before they must not discriminate against the sex of applicants. This means that no quotas could be set. Davidson could not, for example, set a ratio of 1,000 men to 500 women. The college must accept all applicants on the basis of ability or else all federal funds would be cut off. Bevan says that this is one reason why he rejects the Duke Dormitory proposal, since once the college is committed to coeducation, no restrictions can be set if this bill should be passed.

Clodfelter says, however, he has contacted former Davidson professor Jon Fuller, who is an assistant to the Commissioner of Education in Washington, D.C., and that Fuller said Davidson is already committed to coeducation. Fuller said that Davidson (See BATTLE, Page 10).

Conoley Disregards Spending Ceiling

Despite a vote by the Senate to limit spending on the yearbook to $8,000 this year, Quips and Cranks Editor Ronnie Conoley has requested a budget of $10,500. Appearing before the Activities Fee Committee, a sub-committee of the Senate, Conoley requested that this amount be granted to the yearbook. When asked why he requested $2,500 more than the Senate limit, Conoley replied, “We asked for that amount of money because that is what we think we need.” Conoley said that the SGA limit in no way affects what he requests.

Student Body President Danny Clodfelter said he found Conoley’s actions difficult to understand. “The Senate set $8,000 as a ceiling for what could be spent on the yearbook,” Clodfelter said. “Although it is unusual for the Senate to direct the Activities Fee Committee to limit the budget of a group, the Senate felt that action needed to be taken on this issue.” Since the Senate has the ultimate control of the Student Activities Fee, Clodfelter said that no matter what Conoley requests or what the Activities Fee Committee grants, no more than $8,000 would be used for the yearbook.

Conoley said that he had no idea how much money he would get. “My hopes have gone up and down with the Senate’s action. First they approve $10,500 and then $8,000. I don’t know what they'll do next.” In limiting the yearbook to an $8,000 budget last year, the Senate based its decision on a poll of the student body which revealed that a majority of the students favored a reduction in the money spent on the yearbook.

The Activities Fee Committee is to meet this morning to further consider the distribution of student fees. Members of the Activities Fee Committee are Business Manager of the College Robert A. Currie, Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith, Professor of Mathematics Richard R. Bernard, Senior Senator Cecil Burney, Nick Livengood, Robert Straub, and Sophomore Senators Bill Ralston and Doug Brown.