Le Sn (Staff photo by Horwitz)

WHO’S THE SHREW? Jennet Robinson explains her role.

‘Shrew’ And Companions Describe Taming Progress

Staff Writer

If cast enthusiasm has anything to do with it, “The Taming of the Shrew” should be outstanding. At least, that’s the impression given by the play’s three actresses. Jennet Robinson, Bobbie Blackwood, and Martha Taylor could not conceal their delight when asked about their roles.

Of course, the natural first question about roles is, “Jennet, were you type-cast as the shrew?” Luckily, she warned me beforehand that that question was already more worn than “why would you (a girl) come to Davidson?” However, she did confess to having some sympathy for Katherina.

“Kate’s shrewishness was really sort of a defense mechanism,” she said. “Everybody was always putting her down and picking on her, so I understand why she acted that way. Really, Petruchio was the only one who came to see the real Kate.”

Bobbie Blackwood, who portrays Kate’s little sister, said, “Bianca isn't stupid, either. She's really an expert at playing the game with her suitors: she can be herself with anyone except men.”

Martha Taylor said that the widow whom she plays is somewhat of a shrew, too, especially with the added experience of already having been married.

All three of the actresses re-emphasized the fun that the cast was having with the play and their high hopes for success.

The Davidsonian
October 22, 1971
Page Seven

Secret Service Under Nixon Recalls Brown Shirt Era

AN ANALYSIS By ROBERT TOUCHTON Asst. Managing Editor

A word used extensively to describe the last, turbulent decade comes crashing to one’s mind when the spectacle of last Friday's Brown Shirt meeting (otherwise known as the presentation ceremony at Charlotte’s “Billy Graham Day”) is contemplated. That word is “sick.”

That word, which finally came to be used as a part of the decade’s numerical designation, is apropos when one considers the exclusion from a public event honoring a minister of another ordained man—a professor of religion—because he questions why some of his students are barred from seeing their President. The professor was Alexander J. McKelway; the students were Mack Mitchell and Jeff Johnston.

The sad state of affairs into which this nation has slid is aptly illustrated by the simple fact that McKelway, who sports a theologian’s beard, had no ticket yet entered the coliseum along with the crowd whileMitchell and Johnston, who bore valid tickets, were barred because of their longish hair and obvious occupation. As he was herded from the coliseum by a cursing guard for simple association with college students, McKelway shook his head and said, “Incredible!” several times. He was more vocal Wednesday when time, rather than mellowing his views of the incident, had made him more determined of the evils of the present administration.

170 N. Main
Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Field Jackets — P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N. C.

Happy Homecoming
Be sure to Shop the Village Store for Gifts while you're in Davidson

“What is going on is simply crowd control by Nixon,” McKelway said. To assure cooperative crowds of “the people” Nixon “systematically excludes students,” according to McKelway. Secret Service and local police claim “intelligence reports” from the area indicated that students and other dissidents were planning to take over the platform and in other ways disrupt the planned niceties. McKelway brusquely dismissed those reports with the unqualified statement that “this was a hoax.” If anything, the professor said, the reports were self-generated, maybe by the informers themselves.

There are undoubtedly those on every campus who attend various meetings and then report the activities to government officials. Frequently, the informers suggest radical actions and then report that such events were “discussed.” But, says the skeptic or the politically naive, the Secret Service wasn’t at fault; rather the “redneck” local police are to blame, right? McKelway called the Secret Service Nixon’s “political henchmen.”

“Increasingly, the Secret Service is operating as a political agent of Richard Nixon—something like the Brown Shirts of Hitler,” said McKelway, drawing on the experience of press writers with whom he spoke and recent reports from Washington on the political activities of the S.S. At least the Brown Shirts were civilian supporters of Der Fuhrer. The Secret Service is a civil service branch of the government whose members’ salaries are paid by taxpayers.

When a president decrees that he be seen by only a percentage of the populace—the percentage that either consider him a good president or are too uneducated or too foolish to know the difference—there is something wrong with a nation’s sense of values and propriety. When civil service employees become political thugs of a calculating president, there is present the harsh reality that things aren’t as they should be. And when respectable members of society are hustled from a public meeting starring their President because they decide to pursue the rights of those excluded from the same event because of their hair length or present condition of servitude, there is a word which describes such an event. That word is “sick.”

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY - NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

JOE LITTLE HI - Fi
“Where You Get The Most For Your Money”
100 - WATT FM - AM STEREO RECEIVER
Only $199.95
The Sherwood S7100 has all the features of other brands $100 more!
*100 watts
*1.9 uv FM sensitivity
*FM interchannel hush
*connections for 2 tape recorders & 2 pairs of speakers
*and walnut wood case is included!

COMPLETE SYSTEM
Including Sherwood Receiver, Garrard 40B Turntable, Base & Cartridge
2-LR-4X Acoustic Suspension Speakers: $299.95.

Downtown Charlotte
Hours 9:30 - 5:30 Mon. thru Sat.