Page Eight December 3, 1971

Up ’n’ Coming

Friday, December 3
8 a.m. Speaker: Richard Armour, Fu Hall
10 a.m. Piedmont Visiting Scholar: Dr. Samuel P. Huntington, Morrison Room
8 p.m. Concert: Spyder Turner, Love
10:40 p.m. Movie: “Bandolero,” Morrison Room

Saturday, December 4
Basketball: Clemson

Sunday, December 5
8:05 p.m. Movie: “Bandolero,” Morrison Room

Friday, December 10
8 p.m. Hungry: Danny Potter, Morrison Room

Saturday, December 11
Basketball: Furman, Here
10:30 p.m. Hungry: Danny Potter, Morrison Room

Elections
By BOB HOWELL, Staff Writer

Elections for major student offices will be held in the weeks immediately following Christmas vacation, according to Bill Lear, chairman
of the elections board. Registration deadline for all offices except those nominations for class senators will be Tuesday, Jan. 4th,
and the general election will be held the 11th. The last day for filing nominations for class senators will be
the 11th or 12th, with that election taking place the following Tuesday, Jan. 10. Qualified candidates may run.

Trio Discusses British Novel
By GRAY WILSON, Managing Editor

The topics were James, Conrad, and Ford at the Modern British Novel Symposium, but the real entertainment came from the
team of Cox, Sullivan, and Core. The brilliant scholars in their fields pooled their talents for this Honors College program
to investigate the making of the contemporary British novel from the different techniques of three literary giants. All of these
professors agree that the modern British novel is basically a political one, which views man's relationship to society with a
particular political bias. Novelists in England, cognizant of the British bearing and civilized attitudes, were faced with the life of
the individual in the world while at the same time showing his continuity with his place in the historical context,
which was one of change and decay.

Author-essayist James M. Cox, presently a teacher at Dartmouth, began the symposium Wednesday with a paper on two novels by
Henry James, "The Golden Bowl" and "The Princess Casamassima." James attempted to lift the middle-class novel to an art form
to create a higher consciousness. Cox explored this metaphor in depth, concluding that the failure of "The Princess Casamassima" lies
in the fact that James was so committed to the high society that he lost the same unity with the
lower classes.

Encounter Groups Found Successful
By MIKE TANNER, Staff Writer

Very much in vogue in our age, which is putting increasing emphasis on interpersonal and intrapersonal understanding and honesty as
a possible step toward the alleviation of some of the ills that affect our society, is the encounter group. Although
the ends of such groups are often hard to pinpoint, most participants agree that the attainment of some degree of
understanding of oneself or of others, or perhaps simply compassion for the other members, are the projected results.

One weekend this fall, hall counselors Johnny Robinson and Bruce Batten, together with clinical psychologist Dr. Meredith Hall, organized a
session for interested freshmen. The group met at Hall's home from Saturday morning until Sunday afternoon in an attempt to
familiarize the participants with the encounter group concept through an actual experience. When it was over, the group members, the
organizers included, expressed hesitant satisfaction. They all felt that it had been both stimulating and enjoyable, but that inasmuch as
the session could inflict serious psychological scars if mishandled, it is not for everyone. Batten added that in his understanding,
the session's primary asset...was in allowing the group members to think and express themselves as they wanted, not as they
felt they should. Dean of Students Will Terry expressed approval of the venture and said that he hoped that in
the future the college would provide the opportunity for more members of its community to participate in groups of this
sort. “The college has the opportunity to provide facilities to increase effective interpersonal communication,” he said. “I do not, however,
think that it should be confused with an effort for Davidson to provide total mental health service to all students.
We cannot do this and it is not part of our function as an educational institution.”

and could not accurately portray revolutionists and anarchists which are involved in the plot. Novelist Walter Sullivan, professor of English
at Vanderbilt University, chose Under Western Eyes by Joseph Conrad to show this author's “politics of despair.” He believes that
Conrad accurately depicts the anarchists in his novel but that he has little sympathy for them. Nor does Conrad have
any kind words for the morality of family, church, or state. Former Davidson professor George Core lectured on Parade’s End
by Ford Maddox Ford, in which this author attempts to merge personal experience with the historical events of World War
I.

Whenever I feel like exercise, I lie down until the feeling passes.
Robert M. Hutchins

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what “low net cost” really means.
Hal Mapes
Jim Roy
892-1467
1424 ROBERT T. STONE
District Agent

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

Set For January

for SGA president and vice president, YMCA president, vice president, secretary, and treasurer, class senators, off-campus senate representatives, at-large members
of the Conduct Council, vacancies on the Hearing Committee, Defense Advisor, and Student Solicitor. Students must also elect a president
of the Union Board, president of the Social Council, and editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, The Quips and Cranks, The Miscellany,
and the Wildcat Handbook. Since the student Senate is presently revising the SGA bylaws, minor changes in these dates and
offices may be made, Lear said. One of the present bylaws the senate is considering concerns the date for elections.
The old bylaws prescribe that these shall be held the second Tuesday of the winter term; however, these bylaws were
written three years ago when the winter term was not split by Christmas vacation. The present calendar clashes with the
election program because the Elections Board does not have sufficient time after the Thanksgiving vacation to publicize its event, and
also the election of class senators would have to take place after Christmas, Lear said. Consequently, the board has deemed
it necessary this year, as last year, to postpone elections until after vacation. The senate is also considering the manner
in which such candidates as the editors of the yearbook and the Wildcat Handbook are to be nominated. Previously this
has been in the hands of the Publications Board, but it may be expanded to include nominations by the general
student body.

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.

Jewelry

Cashion’s Food Mart
Open 8:00 A.M. - 9:00 P.M.
Monday - Saturday
Special Case Prices on Beer

Wrap yourself in the TOTAL LOOK
Cotton Suede JACKETS
Woven or Knit SPORT SHIRTS
Wide Leather BELTS
Knits and Jean FLARES
Short or Tall BOOTS

Come browse and see our many selections.
Open Friday Nights
John Mack & Son
Mooresville
