Page Eight

May 7, 1971

The Davidsonian

Erratic Linkers Sputter To Fourth

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Sports Writer

A windy day and inconsistent play were two major reasons for the fourth-place finish of the Davidson golf team in
the Southern Conference tournament, held recently at Quail Ridge Golf Club in Sanford.

The East Carolina Pirates nipped defending champion Furman 754 to 755 to capture team honors.

Following these schools were The Citadel 783, Davidson 784, William and Mary 800, Richmond 828, and VMI 828.

Coach Tom Scott reflected that his team should have performed better.

“We were erratic in the second round, and this hurt us considerably. However, East Carolina played very well, turning in
some good scores,” he noted.

Freshman Jim Ray was the pace-setter for the Cats, posting rounds of 73 and 78 for a 151 total. He
finished in a four-way tie for fifth place.

Ray echoed Scott’s disappointment with the team’s finish. “I was pleased with my first round, but the wind was really
bad the second day and I didn’t putt well, either,” he stated.

Ray praised the condition of the Quail Ridge course, and added that “East Carolina just played super golf in the
wind.”

The addition of a fall golf season would be welcomed by Ray, who played on the team at Tuscola High
School near Waynesville.

“The competition would be better since players could get their games together during the summer,” he said.

In a tie for eighth place were Doug Clark and Rusty Boyd with 154 shots each. Clark turned in rounds
of 76 and 78, while Boyd carded two rounds of 77.

The erratic play lamented by Scott hindered the efforts of Dick Spinner and Bill Guerrant.

Spinner opened with a 77 but slipped to an 85 in the windy second round for a 162 total. Guerrant
was also plagued by a second round 85, which coupled with his 78 on the opening day for a total
of 163.

Scott Sheftall, with an 81-82-163 and Bill McKenzie, who carded 83-83-166, were other Wildcats competing in the tournament.

Lynwood Edwards of The Citadel edged Tommy Gaul of Furman in an exciting four-hole sudden death playoff for the individual
championship. Both golfers had 144 totals for the regular competition.

Defending champion David Strawn of Furman, an East Mecklenburg graduate, tied for fourth place with Carl Bell of East Carolina
at 150.

Looking to next year, Scott noted that his team is youthful but has difficulty with practicing because of the distance
to Charlotte and Denver. Ray also cited that as a handicap.

“Charlotte has a great course, but it takes a big chunk out of your day to drive in and back
out,” he indicated.

Scott predicted that top contenders for the conference crown next year should be East Carolina and Furman.

“Furman has its own campus golf course, which gives them a definite advantage,” he concluded.

Schlitz Malt Liquor.

Taurus

April 20-May 20

Our sign is Taurus, the Bull.

Can you handle us?

Tremendous strength, power, reliability, dependable good taste. That's what Taurus is known for. Schlitz Malt Liquor, too.

Venus, the ruling planet, makes Taurus sociable, fond of fun, and able to inspire friendship in others. Maybe you and
the Bull should get together. Maybe you’d hit it off.

But maybe not.

It depends on your sign. Because Taurus has a powerful mean streak.

There's a helluva fire in the Bull.

So check your stars. They'll tell you straight if you're the kind of person who can meet Schlitz Malt Liquor
head-on.

Nobody makes malt liquor like Schlitz. Nobody.
