Page Six February 12, 1971 The Davidsonian

Trussell Authors ‘Loving Book’
By RICH WILSON Managing Editor

One of every six brides in the United States is pregnant on her wedding day. Between one million and two
million induced abortions occur in the United States each year at an annual cost that has been estimated at $350,000,000.
Six percent of all unmarried women in the United States who had coitus have been pregnant by the age of
15.

The substantial lack of information concerning contraception and birth control, which these statistics reflect, provided the motivation for senior James
Trussell to write “The Loving Book,” a pamphlet dealing with various methods of birth control.

“Almost all the literature on birth control which is available is directed toward indigent populations. The more I read on
the subject, the more I began to feel that students are neglected. Sex education is poor, and it is hard
for students to secure methods of birth control. It is also hard for them to get abortions unless they're rich,”
Trussell said.

Consequently, Trussell wrote “The Loving Book” which discusses various methods of birth control and how effective each method is. But
the book also contains a section in which information is given concerning where a person would go in his local
area to receive information on abortions or get prescriptions for birth control pills.

Trussell became interested in this field of study after working two summers in established family planning programs. “I've been interested
in birth control and population control since high school. In working in this area I found that the greatest problem
is that information was not getting to the people,” Trussell said. “Either the information was given in comic book form
where everything was too simplified, or it appeared in scientific journals where the average person could not understand it,” he
continued.

Last summer Trussell participated in an internship on population education which was offered by the Institute for the Study of
Health and Society. His purpose was to develop a model pamphlet on birth control which could be adapted to all
areas with the addition of information about local referral agencies for abortions or birth control prescriptions.

The Charlotte Planned Parenthood organization, which sponsored the printing of this pamphlet in this area, was responsible for underwriting the
11,000 copies which are being distributed at area colleges including Central Piedmont, Davidson, Johnson C. Smith, Queens, and the University
of North Carolina at Charlotte.

Each student at these colleges receives one free copy. If they desire additional ones, copies will be sold for $.50
each. Steve Chandler, a student at Florida Presbyterian College, assisted Trussell in the compilation of information. Chandler also participated in
the population internship.

On the subject of abortions, Trussell said, “Under no circumstances should a woman undergo a compulsory pregnancy. Although this situation
involves the relationship between the man and the woman, the ultimate decision should be that of the woman. There is
really one objection to abortion — that it is murder. My contention is that life is a process, a continuum.
The fetus is only one stage in the process. Whether the fetus is a human or not is a theological
question which can be argued from now till eternity without an answer being found. The fetus is more than an
appendix but less than a human being; therefore the rights of the mother come prior to the rights of the
fetus.”

Davis Gives Views On Birth
By DOUGLAS BROWN Asst. Managing Editor

“In general, Davidson students are probably not well informed on birth control methods,” said Dr. William Davis, college physician, during
an interview this week. The vast majority are aware of the pill and the condom, Davis believes, but he does
not feel that most have a very broad knowledge of birth control methods.

“In a sense, we are just emerging from the Victorian Era,” commented Davis. According to him, “nice people” did not
talk about birth control publicly in the past. Davis has no idea what percentage of the Davidson student body has
engaged in pre-marital sex. He pointed out that surveys have shown that sexual activity among college students is on the
increase, but he does not believe that the increase is as much as many think.

“A girl does not necessarily lose her virginity at college,” commented Davis. He continued by saying, “I have seen a
change in attitude. Many of the young decide not to engage in sexual activities. It is important to realize that
there are more open discussions on this subject than in the past.”Couples feel no guilt complex and see nothing wrong
with pre-marital sex. Just because there is more talk about this does not mean that sexual promiscuity has increased dramatically.

There are about one hundred years old. At the time they were made, abortions were very dangerous. Today the conditions
have changed but the laws have not, according to Trussell. Commenting on North Carolina’s abortion laws, Trussell said these laws
are unconstitutional, since the same law was ruled unconstitutional in Georgia.

“Art Jones, however, is planning to introduce legislation which would in effect allow for the woman and her physician to
determine the efficacy of an abortion,” said Trussell. “I think this is a better route to change these laws than
going through the courts.”

Concerning college infirmaries in general, Trussell said he felt they should accept the responsibility of distributing contraceptives as a part
of the health needs of the students. “If Davidson continues the program of allowing coeds to attend this school, the
infirmary should take the responsibility for them,” he said. “The availability of contraceptives in no way encourages promiscuity. In almost
every case I know, a couple decided to use a contraceptive after initial sexual intercourse.”

Davis Views Sex Book
A REVIEW By WILLIAM A. DAVIS Jr. M.D. College Physician

(Having known for nearly a year that Jimmy Trussell was working on this, I have awaited its appearance with a
good deal of anticipation. Now after a proper period of pregnancy, Jimmy has labored and delivered his child which, on
examination, is found to be a beautiful healthy baby.

He begins by making certain assumptions regarding the need for such a book. If one accepts these conditions, there can
be no objection to the publication. In the preface, he states the purpose of the book is not to offer
moral judgments but “to elicit basic information about biology and contraceptive care, of which every college student should be aware.”

The book is divided into four sections: Anatomy, Physiology (female), Birth Control, and Venereal Disease. The anatomy section is well
done, with good illustration and written in non-technical (although technically correct) language. The portion dealing with the female physiology (menstrual
cycle) is somewhat more technical and could be abbreviated without sacrificing the basic context. However, the thoughtful reader would prefer,
I think, to know “why,” rather than have to accept the facts without any knowledge of the relationships which produce
these facts.

The greatest portion of the book is devoted to the various methods of birth control. A factual discussion of each
is given, followed in each instance by a list of the advantages and disadvantages. Quite properly, no attempt is made
to push one method over another. However, they are compared according to statistical effectiveness. An important point which is included
is the approximate price of each method.

The final section of the book deals with venereal disease. The descriptions of the symptoms are sufficiently clear to alert
anyone to the possibility of these infections and to seek prompt treatment. The last few pages may be the most
important of the entire book, particularly to students in the Piedmont area of North Carolina. These list various persons who
have indicated a willingness to counsel, treat, prescribe, and otherwise help the student who has a problem.

There is one feature which puts the icing on an already great cake. These are the photographs, found throughout the
book, of the magnificent Vigeland sculptures which are obviously intended to show the natural beauty of the human body. In
summary, must reading for some, recommended for all.

When judging which birth control methods are best, Davis believes they should be judged according to their effectiveness and satisfaction.
“The most effective method of birth control is abstinence, but this is not very satisfying,” said Dr. Davis. Abstinence aside,
the birth control pill is the most effective birth control method according to Davis. Its drawbacks are that it is
subject to human error such as the girl forgetting to take it. The pill is also the most satisfying method,
both in physical and mental terms. The pill does away with creams, jellies, and related items. Taking the pill is
completely separated from the act of sexual intercourse.

Of course, if one is married and has about five children and no desire for more, the best method is
sterilization. Birth control pills require a prescription, and Davis thinks that most students would be able to get them. At
his office in Cornelius, Davis prescribes them, and most of the women he prescribes them to are women who have
had one or two babies and do not want to get pregnant again in the near future.
