The Davidsanian
February 19, 1971
Page Three

Script Shackles ‘A Case Of Libel’

A REVIEW By BILL GREEN

“A Case of Libel,” now being produced by the Davidson College Drama Department, reminds us that even the finest workman
needs the proper tools. Several well-developed and exciting individual performances are somewhat dampened by the well-developed mediocrity of the text.
Jeff Loughridge and Bob Wright (“the short lawyers”) were the half of the double-cast sets of opposing attorneys in action
Wednesday night. It did not take Loughridge long to distinguish himself as the evening’s workhorse. He displayed a range of
abilities that is going to surprise more than a few people, and leave the rest of us grinning smugly.

(Staff Photo by Doty)
Lawyer Ed Dobbs explains the meaning of libel to Mr. and Mrs. Corcoran, Dave Bradley and Martha Plott, in Drama
Department production.

‘Miscellany’ Achieves High Quality

By DICK ANDERSON
Associate Editor

“Miscellany” is a noun that well describes the contents of the Davidson literary review, but its adjectival form is by
no means applicable to their quality in this issue.

Perhaps the least effective parts of the magazine are the last two articles, by Robert S. Lennox, Instructor of Humanities
and Education, and J. G. Holland, assistant professor of English, both at Davidson. The first part of Lennox’s two-part “essay
on ‘Synergetic Man’” (the second part is to appear in the Spring issue) is slightly incomprehensible, if erudite. And Holland's
two poetry reviews are less reviews than annotated quotations from his subjects’ works.

It is a measure of the high quality of the entire magazine that even the weakest selections are interesting, though
a little confusing, and once one has read the second part of Lennox’s essay it should become clearer.

Associate Professor of Music Wilmer H. Welsh handles with poignant sensitivity and skill the tale of a serious modern composer
who feels himself superseded by the popular music of today, and in so doing points up his personal dilemma as
a composer.

Seamus Finn and Ronald Jones, both Californian writers, succeed brilliantly in the O. Henry genre. Their surprise endings fit superbly
into the story lines yet have all the impact of the best such “short shorts.” The dialect written by the
latter in his “The One Peso Slut” combines plausibility with easy readability. The West Indies dialect in Seymour Martin’s “Obeah”
is more difficult to figure out but rewards study (I have yet to decipher “oono rass,” though).

Seniors V. Cullum Rogers’ satire on Thomas Wolfe, by content a re-telling of the episode of Brer Rabbit and the
brier patch from the Uncle Remus cycle, juxtaposes that earthy story with Wolfe's cloud-borne style so effectively as to reduce
both to hilarious absurdity.

Pakistani Mobashir Galahuddin and Michael W. Febb both catch glimpses of more tragic existences; impressionistic brush strokes by the former
depict a death in the desert delicately, while the latter whips the undead horse of religious fanaticism in “If Thy
Right Hand Offend Thee...”

Bill Rolland imitates the Pensees of Pascal in four “Daily Meditations,” but the imitation is not unworthy, for he provides
deft insights in a variety of modes.

The poetry in the magazine is rather more difficult to evaluate. Certainly Emilie Glen in “Broth for the Brothel” and
Terry Stokesin “The Answer" juggle words well. I also especially liked the first poem, "Test Pattern" by O. Howard Winn,
which deals immediately with Mr. Universe and more subtly with Marshall McLuhan (I think). The poetry selections do seem characterized
by a certain sameness, however.

Finally, there is a photo-graphic study on Ireland by Senior (Harrison Higgins), consisting primarily of pictures of the very old.
Unfortunately, I fear that this study tells more about Higgins than about Ireland, but it is nonetheless well done.

Loughridge was the only player to show any traces of character transition over the year or so that the plot
covers. Kind, but businesslike, his first scenes have about them the delicate touch of lost youth and a life gone
sterile. He is last night's campfire. He is a withered grapefruit. He is terrific. Gradually, the Corcoran case gets the
blood (citric acid?) flowing. Loughridge’s Sloane hits his stride early and never loses the pace.

Wright's handling of the villain's attorney suffered by comparison. His concluding remarks to the jury—his last real lines—were exceptionally well
handled. Wright captured the smooth, used-car selling technique demanded by the lines. His ability so demonstrated, it was disappointing to
see Wright make so much less use of it in the early going.

Dave Bradley gave the audience a believable Dennis Corcoran—no small accomplishment, given the melodramatic tendencies of the script. Added use
of Bradley's nicely done "frustrated strength" might have helped. The scenes with Corcoran and wife (Martha Plott) were often adequate,
but the Corcoran couple was hampered by a relationship that might as well have been nephew—maiden aunt.

Carl Nordstrom appeared as Blackhearted Boyd Bendix, a phrase-turning Agnew of other days. His interpretation of the character was from
the first exactly what it should be in only the last couple of scenes. It would be better for the
play if the audience could gradually realize what a pathetic, though dangerous man this Bendix is. Nordstrom's Bendix, however, began
and ended just a little too ludicrously.

Predictably, the stage action picked up with the short-role appearances of Peter Lutken and Cullum Rogers, as a Scottish colonel
and editor Fred Alston, respectively. Lutken, particularly, was a breath of fresh air when a dragging play most needed it.
The other cast members could learn much from his skillful use of a punctuating light touch. Rogers gave possibly his
best physical performance since "Don't Drink the Water" (a 1969 production). Rogers as Alston shuffled in and out in a
haze of whiskey and newsprint, commanding the attention of the audience all the way.

George Wraughon, as Sloane's major partner in the firm, ran into too many obstacles for his performance to ever pick
up a dramatic rhythm. Foremost of these obstacles was a set of lines including all the worst of a poor
melodramatic lot.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA PARKS

REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 A.M. to 10:30
Phone 892-2111
Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies — OPEN 9-8

The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY

Muthers Coffeehouse Theater
1225 Central Ave.
Phone 376-7100
Folk Music, Blues, Drama
Cold Beer
Open 7 nights a week 6:30 to 12:00
Rock Bands Sunday only 1-5
