Woodmansee Resigns Post, Chaplaincy Future Undecided

The Rev. R. Scott Woodmansee has announced his resignation from Davidson as college chaplain. Woodmansee, who has been in the chaplaincy post since 1966 when he replaced present Dean of Students Will H. Terry, will become the minister of the John Knox Presbyterian Church in Marietta, Ga.

“We hate to leave this community, for Davidson has been good to us,” Woodmansee said. “I'll miss the contact with the students." Woodmansee indicated, however, that he is “excited about his new job as a pastoral minister and that he feels his new congregation will be very open to new forms of Christian life."

College President Samuel P. Spencer has asked Woodmansee for both names of possible candidates for the chaplaincy and for some recommendations concerning the chaplaincy at Davidson. According to Woodmansee, who admits some frustration involved in the present position, four options for a Davidson campus ministry were offered to Spencer.

One option allows for a chaplain-teacher, with the man filling the position ministering as chaplain to both students and faculty and also teaching a course or two to give him faculty status. Woodmansee pointed out that this would allow the chaplain a greater role in decision making.

A second option mentioned by Woodmansee involves having a chaplain in the community sponsored by the synod of the Presbyterian Church, similar to Presbyterian campus ministers on larger university campuses. Woodmansee stressed, however, that the synod has no money for such a position to be opened.

A third option would be to hire a chaplain who would also serve as an associate or assistant minister at the college Presbyterian Church. Woodmansee pointed out that such a position would broaden the base for operation, allowing the chaplain to work with both the students and the greater community. Furthermore, it would be beneficial to the church and would allow the chaplain to preach at times, freeing the senior minister for other duties.

The final option mentioned by Woodmansee is to keep the chaplain’s position as it presently is, a post financed by the college and under the auspices of the Dean of Students. Both Woodmansee and assistant to the president Greg Scott emphasized that before a new chaplain is named, Spencer and the selection committee will look “long and hard" at the options and will consider fully what the chaplaincy should entail.

By RICH WILSON Managing Editor

In an effort to assuage faculty discontent and confusion concerning the issue of campus governance, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. read a statement at the faculty meeting Dec. 7 in which he clarified the role of the President and trustees in relation to the faculty.

Addressing himself to charges that the trustees, in the newly adopted by-laws, gave the president broad powers, such as to suspend action by any group on campus, Spencer said no additional powers have been assigned to the office than previously existed in the old by-laws.

“It can be argued that the former implied powers of the President were greater, and that making the procedure specific and limiting it to calling for a review is a circumscription rather than enlargement of authority,” he said.

Concerning the issue of the President chartering all organizations on campus, Spencer said that he will suggest at the Spring meeting of the trustees that the faculty in addition to the President approve or disapprove the chartering of organizations.

Spencer said he will also recommend at the Spring meeting that the faculty also be allowed to decide along with the trustees who shall constitute the faculty. The by-laws adopted in October directed only the trustees to decide on whom may be considered faculty members.

Turning his attention to the issue of administrative appointments and consultation of the faculty, Spencer firmly established the procedure that in the case of major administrative appointments, the

(Staff photo by Erwin)
A MERRIER CHRISTMAS
Monday evening from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. Rho Alpha Chi and the YMCA gave a Christmas party for youngsters from the Barium Springs Orphanage. Above at the PAX house Robert Brice eats with some of the boys.Executive Committee of the faculty will be furnished with the opportunity to decide whether it wishes on behalf of the faculty to (Staff photo by Barnes) - DEATH OF THE ARCHBISHOP Scott Woodmansee takes last look at Chaplain’s Office Spencer Addresses Faculty Meeting be consulted. Spencer also said that a special meeting of the faculty will be called after every trustee meeting in order that the faculty may be briefed on actions taken by the board. On the issue of campus governance, Spencer said that in the past several years two trends have emerged. The lines of responsibility have been clarified especially with regard to the function of the President.

Senate By-Laws Revised (Continued from Page 1) could have lavished more painstaking attention to the irksome by-laws. One of the suggestions that this committee raised was to drop the provision whereby the SGA Vice President would be President of the Residence Hall Association, a sound idea that would have been crucial, if not fatal to the RHA. The truth of the defeated motion lies in the fact that none of the sophomore senators toying with the idea of running for the SGA Vice Presidency are anxious to inherit the white elephant RHA. The RHA’s new constitution has dismissed several of the functions that the body has customarily performed for the dormitories. It will no longer enforce rules or inflict fines. With the addition of the new “house managers” the RHA has been reduced to the status of a cantankerous great-aunt who strikes a rich appearance, but factually suffers a flagging bank account.

A major fight on the Senate floor served to attempt to abolish the position of cheerleader. Cecil Burney noted that such innovative groups as the Kazoo Band had reduced the need for outdated cheerleaders. Sophomore Cheerleader Jerry Godbehere said, “I think that cheerleaders add a lot to an athletic contest; there’s always the chance a girl will be dropped. Nothing would be gained by abolishing cheerleaders.”

Individual attention was the crying need of the whole affair. The Senate tackled a job that reduced a multiplicity of ideas and issues, the bulk of which could have finished work for an entire term of office, into a single package bursting at seams that were altogether too easily split. Joint candidacy for SGA offices, various boards, and the YMCA were logically outlawed in an effort to weed out conflicting authority in legislative areas. The Senate stopped short of abolishing joint candidacy for the editorship of THE DAVIDSONIAN, on the force of the argument that a single editor might not be able to handle the tremendous workload.

The powers of the current SGA Chancellor Robert Strand were increased substantially by amendments of the by-laws, although these new powers reflect only a fraction of those suggested. Under the new rules, Strand and his successors will enjoy complete bookkeeping privileges and the position of Treasurer of the SGA. Henceforth, the Chancellor will be required to have had accounting instruction to qualify for the job. An amendment to provide for direct student election of the Chancellor was voted down; the Senate decided that the SGA President should retain the power to appoint the chancellor.

Freshman Vincent Rabil appeared before the Senate with a petition bearing 145 names requesting that the Senate by-laws admit the legitimacy of write-in ballots. Rabil waited at the meeting four and a half hours before he was recognized. When he began reading his presentation, a four-page compendium of questions and speculation about the election system, he was silenced midway through the second page by a call for a vote by one eager senator. Rabil’s amendment to allow write-in votes was defeated.

The Senate rejected the idea that the present Union Board should be subservient to the Senate, reaffirming its present autonomous status. Several of the senators wanted to “adopt” the Union Board to exert greater control over matters of taste like last year’s Groove Tube debacle, when a movie scheduled at the Union was abruptly cancelled. Union Board member Danny Berry said, “The Senate was trying to get control of the Union Board, a move that would have neglected the basic fundamental independence of the two organizations.”

Ralston’s committee was not the focus of criticism for the Senate. Sophomore Senator John Douglas summed up a seemingly majority sentiment when he said, “I think that the work done by Bill Ralston’s committee and the subsequent Senate action brought about some constructive changes. Aside from the quality of the amendments, which, as I said, were, for the most part constructive, the By-laws obviously were in need of revision, and it was the responsibility of the Senate to make these renovations, regardless of the time which it may have taken.”

Page Three