Page Two May 21, 1971 The Davidsonian

Cornell Favors Economy Of Long Range Planning
By ALEC HOON
News Editor

In a sparsely-attended Open End, Vice President of Finance and Development C. David Cornell emphasized the need for long-range economic
planning at Davidson. “The administration will spend a lot of time this summer sitting and thinking. We will try to
build some five and ten year plans,” Cornell said Monday night.

Specifically, he referred to the possibility of deferred giving projects, aiming at a 30 million dollar endowment fund. One likely
prospect in building the endowment is unitrust. As Cornell explained it, under this system donors place funds in college hands
in the form of a trust. The donor maintains his earnings from the endowment without paying capital gains taxes. Upon
the maturity of the unitrust (the death of the donor), the trust funds become part of the college endowment. Cornell
indicated that the unitrust serves not only as an endowment builder for the college, but also as an important tax
break for the donor.

When questioned about the financial aid situation, Cornell remarked that “there is at present no crisis. There will only be
a crisis when a significant number of students can’t afford to attend Davidson. The aid offered here is now higher
than at many comparable institutions. I refuse to panic until (Director of Admissions H. Edmunds) White tells me that we
are in trouble.”

Addressing the subject of the budget just approved by the trustees, Cornell pointed out that approximately $550,000 had been approved
for financial aid, an increase of over $100,000. “I’m very sympathetic to the students’ financial aid problems. We are constantly
looking for new sources of help,” he said.

Cornell mentioned the possibility of getting state aid for the first time. He pointed to two bills pending in the
North Carolina legislature. One proposal would offer direct grants for needy North Carolina students. In the other, the state would
provide direct payment to schools for accepting N.C. students. “I am all for this aid, I’ve seen it work very
successfully in California and Iowa,” he said.

Several students questioned the college's justification in spending so much money to build the new library when there were so
many other pressing financial needs. Cornell replied that “to keep Davidson a viable institution, the college made a commitment to
build the new library; if they waited there was a distinct possibility that it would never be built. Secondly, the
library was committed in Grier Martin's administration, and half the money, which was raised then, can be used only to
build the library.”

When queried about the possibilities for coeducation, he responded that the real problem was in finding the money required to
build the necessary additional facilities, and to establish additional programs which girls would want. “I would note that one significant
step has been made in the establishment of the Queens College Exchange Program. There will be five girls from Queens
attending Davidson next year under the program,” he stated.

A student then asked about the problems that Davidson was experiencing with regard to financing the football program. Cornell explained
the problem by saying that the Wildcat Club, created for the purpose of collecting more football money and operating on
a calendar basis, had collected about $80,000 for 1971 out of a goal of $120,000. He said that the college
had made up the difference. “The goal for 1972 is $150,000. At the end of the year the college will
make an evaluation of the Wildcat Club's success, and decide what to do with regard to the program.”

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
DICK ANDERSON
CECIL BURNEY
PAUL ROWLAND
JOE SMITH

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON

Advertising Manager:
WHIT WHITWORTH

Copy Editors:
DAVID HANIG
JAMES HANNA

Photography Editors:
DAVE DOTY
JACK TROTTER

Ass't Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER

Cartoonists:
J. B. FAWCETT
ZACK MOBLEY
CULLUM ROGERS

Circulation Managers:
BRUCE PUCKETT
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Photographers:
CHARLIE RALSTON
FRANK ERWIN

Contributors this week:
Charlie Terrell, Howard Boyd, and Windy March.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$7.00.after that,” he A THIRTY MILLION DOLLAR ENDOWMENT FUND Cornell cites advantages of unitrust system. Students May Exempt Fraternity Board
Bills stated. By ROBERT TOUCHTON Asst. Managing Editor The student Senate has approved a resolution that any student may exempt
himself from a comprehensive board on request. The amended resolution passed. With no opposing votes, the senate passed another resolution
recommending that Duke Dormitory be renovated by September 1972, to accommodate women students. Enough women would then be admitted to
fill that dorm. A provision of the original resolution that ‘all men who wished to live off-campus be allowed to
do so without any selective process was deleted from the final resolution when SGA President Danny Clodfelter reminded the group
that they had just passed a resolution to remind students of the serious shortage of spaces for married students in
the town. An amendment was passed suggesting that the off-campus living policy be liberalized. Clodfelter listed some of the speakers
who have been contacted about appearing on campus next year. Among those mentioned were Senators Henry Jackson, Walter Mondale, William
Proxmire, Alan Cranston, and George McGovern. Former Sen. Charles Goodell, who heads the Republican “Dump Nixon” movement, and Margaret Mead
were also listed. Clodfelter then announced the creation of two study committees — one on subsidization of athletics and the
other to plan strategy on co-education — and opened them to interested students who would contact him. The meeting closed
with a discussion of the proposed new academic regulations.

Terry Deplores Problem Of Campus Drug Abuse By WINDY MARCH Staff Writer Recently, Dean of Students Will H. Terry played
a partial role in stopping a group of students from selling a large amount of hashish, a cannabis drug, on
the Davidson campus. In an interview Tuesday, Terry expressed concern about the ability of the college to handle problems resulting
from growing drug use on campus. “Many students,” he said, “want sanctuary from the law in using illegal drugs, and
think the college will provide it; it cannot be that way.” However, he said that the college would want to
ensure that students in legal trouble over the use of illegal drugs were treated with legal fairness. “But,” he added,
“federal, state, or local police need no permission from the college to search dorm rooms, as long as they have
a warrant.” He further said that he would have no qualms about using police action to stop outsiders who sell
drugs on campus, though he has no first-hand knowledge of such activities taking place. He stated that he has received
a small amount of criticism from local citizens about the use of drugs on the Davidson Campus. Terry's views on
the use of counseling programs to help solve the drug problem seemed somewhat pessimistic. “No one would be more in
favor of it than I,” he said, “but few students have evidenced any real interest in working up such a
program. Much of the talk about such a program is a well-used cover-up to ensure that nothing is done. It
is often a cover-up, but let me say emphatically that it need not be.” To attempt to eliminate the problem
now, he said, would be difficult and probably disruptive. He does not agree with the use of informing agents by
the college, or with the knowing admission of paid police agents to the student body. “It has been my impression,”
he said, “that the college is practically concerned with the dealer. If that impression is correct, I am in agreement
with this practice.” Terry views the dealer as “a bootlegger selling a dangerous product to people he does not know
or care about. There is little doubt in my mind that many of the personal and academic problems I have
dealt with in the last few months are related to drug use. Anyone who uses dope is a damn fool.”

EPC (Continued from Page 1) of Responsibility. Also, many students questioned who would be making value judgments about student conduct.
According to Bevan, the Faculty Executive Committee would first decide, then the faculty would, and any decision could be appealed
to the Board of Trustees. According to Director of Instructional Development Jay H. Ostwalt, this stipulation has only been used
once before, and this was in a murder case involving two students a number of years ago.
