Page Ten

Friday, October 8
8:05 p.m. Movie: "Catch 22"

Saturday, October 9
8 p.m. Concert: Swallow
8:05 p.m. Movie: "Catch 22"

Monday, October 11
All day Navy Officer Information Team
8 p.m. Danforth Lecturer: William Smith
8:05 p.m. Movie: "Plaza Suite"

Tuesday, October 12
All day USMC Officer Information Team
10 a.m. Danforth Lecturer: William Smith
8:05 p.m. Movie: "Plaza Suite"
10 p.m. SGA Meeting

Wednesday, October 13
All day USMC Officer Information Team
8 p.m. Lecture: Sr. Elizabeth McAlister

Thursday, October 14
8 p.m. Artist Series: "Brecht on Brecht"

Friday, October 15
2 p.m. Freshman Football: Duke
8:05 p.m. Movie: "Plaza Suite"

Saturday, October 16
8:05 p.m. Movie: "Plaza Suite"

October 8, 1971

Up & Coming

After the movie
Morrison Room
Union Bar
Love Auditorium
Morrison Room
Green Room
Morrison Room
Green Room
Morrison Room
Blue Room
Green Room
Love Auditorium
Love Auditorium
Morrison Room
Morrison Room

Instant Coeducation Plan
SGA Committee Proposes
By TOM AINSWORTH
Staff Writer

The SGA’s Committee on Coeducation, headed by Reggie Kennedy, recently distributed a number of letters to members of the faculty
and administration in which they proposed a plan for immediate implementation of coeducation, without adding unnecessary features. Their suggestions include
transforming Duke Dormitory into a women’s residence, and transferring the displaced seniors and juniors into off-campus housing. The latter situation
would be eased by a lessening of off-campus housing restrictions by the college and an increased emphasis on finding suitable
accommodations.

N. C. School Of Arts Featured
By LEX VEAZEY
Asst. Copy Editor

The North Carolina School of the Arts in Winston-Salem will provide Davidson College with a variety of cultural experiences during
the coming year through the college's Artist Series. Thursday, Oct. 14, is the date of the first presentation, entitled “Brecht
on Brecht.” Beginning at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium, Davidson students and faculty will have the opportunity to sample the
works of Bertolt Brecht, a twentieth-century German playwright. He wrote “Mother Courage,” “The Caucasian Chalk Circle,” and several other plays.
In delivering “Brecht on Brecht,” the N. C. School of the Arts will attempt to effectively present Brecht’s unique style
of loosely connected scenes and songs that intentionally avoid a literal representation of reality. This presentation of his works, with
a cast of four women and four men, was written by George Tabori and was first produced in New York
in 1962.

Javier Calderon, a classical guitarist, will share his talents with Davidson students on January 7 in the second of four
programs given by the N. C. School of the Arts. Calderon has had meteoric success as a guitarist since he
began playing the instrument at the age of nine. Calderon made his debut with the National Symphony Orchestra.

Battle Over Time (Continued from Page 1)

“Davidson College will be hurt by this bill if it does not make a decision soon,” Clodfelter said. “Recent actions
by the trustees allowing women to receive degrees and approving of coeducation in principle already commit Davidson College to coeducation,
according to Fuller.” The cutting off of federal funds would hurt the college in the work/study program as well as
possible federal funds for the new library.

Throughout the coeducation battle, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has remained up on the hill and out of the
fray. Convalescing from the scars gained in last year's activism, Spencer says he is generally in favor of coeducation but
refuses to comment on individual plans for fear of pre-judging the faculty committees. It may just be possible that the
decision and the plan for coeducation have already been decided between trustee leaders. The president may just be allowing the
students, faculty, and other administrators to engage in battle to keep their minds off other things, or to allow them
to vent their personal opinions. Spencer may know just exactly how coeducation will be implemented. If this is so, however,
the president is probably thinking of coeducation four or five years from now, at least until after the library is
completed.phony Orchestra of Bolivia in 1966 and won acclaim from such artists as Pablo Casals and Andres Segovia. Calderon is
now an assistant to the art guitar instructor at the School of the Arts. On February 11, a classical ballet
(to be announced) will be presented by the school’s new dance company. The company, known as the North Carolina Dance
Theatre, was established through a $250,000 grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. Directed by Robert Lindgren, former featured artist with the
Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, the Dance Theatre should indeed provide the Davidson student with a rare experience in outstanding
ballet.

Music will be the theme of the last program in the Artist Series when the Piedmont Chamber Orchestra comes to
Davidson. Formed in 1968 through an earlier Rockefeller Foundation grant, the ensemble is composed of hand-picked professionals including the Claremont
String Quartet and Clarion Wind Quintet. Its well-known director, Nicholas Harsanyi, was formerly founder and conductor of the celebrated Princeton
Chamber Orchestra and recently served as music director of the Interlochen Arts Academy Orchestra.

In order to take advantage of these fine programs provided by the N. C. School of Arts, students must pick
up their free tickets at the Union Desk. Date tickets will be $1.00. Davidson faculty and staff can pick up
their complimentary tickets at the College Music Department.

“After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
Salads
Desserts
Beverages
Price 1.95
Student Union Dining Room

... emphasis on the Junior Year Abroad program. To accommodate the number of incoming coeds, the number of men in
the freshman class would be cut by 30 to 40. This whole proposal would be put into effect, moreover, without
the college having to build any new dorms, hire new faculty, or increase tuition or endowment.

When asked how such a plan could be brought about when the college has continually stated its position on the
subject as depending on a shaky financial status, Kennedy replied that there were conflicting reports on this point, some administrative
officials feeling that the college is not that bad off.

Continuing, Kennedy stated that one of the committee's more hopeful goals is to have the college “make a commitment” on
coeducation. “Personally,” Kennedy said, “I would certainly like to see Davidson go coed, but on the other hand I wouldn't
like to see the college hang itself. It’s a lot healthier for a college to go coed because it wants
to, not because it’s being forced,” he concluded.

David Smith, the committee's publicity manager, commented on some of the proposal's key points. First, he feels that there is
sufficient off-campus housing to accommodate the number of seniors displaced and that the whole matter shouldn’t place a very great
financial burden on the college.

In relation to this committee proposal, Donald L. Winston, director of development, said that the cost of cutting the number
of male students in favor of women wouldn't be any greater. “But is that what we want to do?” he
said. “This is one question that the students must ask themselves. I'd like to see a survey taken among the
students, seeing if they want to decrease the number of qualified male applicants, knowing that they themselves might not have
gotten in here (if such a program were in effect).”

Commenting on the Duke Dorm proposal, Winston said he realized that the building could hold the 80 women the committee
hopes to bring in next year, but what about subsequent years in which an increasing amount of women would necessitate
the college building separate dorms, gym, and other facilities? As to the question of hiring new faculty, he claims that
this is probably the key economic issue. “That’s when the cost will come,” he said. “We're just not equipped to
handle most of the majors women select.”

EPC Stands Firm On Requirements
Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said this week that the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) has reaffirmed its
position that extended studies programs must be completed before a student can be admitted to his next year. “We had
some problem this year with students who were unclear on their obligations and had to carry an incomplete in extended
studies over into the next year of school,” Bevan said. “But from now on, all students must pass their extended
studies requirements before they can continue to the next grade,” he said. Bevan referred students to Page 13 of the
Academic Regulations for the standards of progress which must be completed by students.

Whatever you want, we’ve got
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N. C.

ARA SERVICES PRESENTS
SPAGHETTI DINNER
Tossed Salad
Assorted Dressings
French Bread
Ice Cream
Your choice Beverage
SATURDAY 5 p.m. - 6 p.m.
STUDENT UNION SNACK BAR
