by East | battles Cannon | as basketball play opens. - Favorites Sigs, Pikas a Pee La IMAC ACTION (Staff Photo by Doty) January 22, 1971 - Page Nine

By PETER MICHAEL Sports Writer

The Davidson wrestling team suffered its first loss on Tuesday, when they were outclassed by a superior N. C. State team. The Wildcats scored a 32-6 victory over Furman and a 25-11 victory over UNCC, both early in the season. Davidson took four undefeated wrestlers: Frank Rader, Jack Jacobs, Greg Funk, and Jim Purcell into the meet with N. C. State, one of the strongest wrestling schools in the state. Few of the matches were close, as State rolled to a

Close IMAC Race Predicted

By HOWARD BOYD Sports Writer

With the start of the IMAC basketball season, it's time for this fearless prognosticator to climb back out on the limb. Coming off of a highly successful flickerball season (remember, I picked the Delts to retain their crown and a three-way fight between the Sigs, Pikas, and SPE’s for first in League B), we look for another great forecasting year.

In League A, the crystal ball says the Sigs are the favorite, with the SAE's, Betas, and Indies likely to battle for second, and perhaps challenge if the Sigs stumble. The defending champion Pikas should have little trouble in League B, and are odds-on choice to retain their crown. Behind them, the league is extremely well balanced, and any of five or six teams could battle for playoff spots.

League A

The Sigs (7-5 in 1970) look to be much improved with all-IMAC Bob Niebauer returning and the addition of Frank Clark from last year’s varsity. Regulars Bill Barnhill and Bill McKenzie also return, with sophomore center Greg Gerdy rounding out the line-up. Randy Parker and Pete Jorgenson are strong reserves. This is a good, solid ballclub with excellent shooting.

The SAE’s have all-IMAC Bob Meadows and a lot of depth. Nick Livengood, Dave Faison, Steve Battle, and sophomore Bruce Baird will probably start along with Meadows, a good all-around leader. Dave Weaver and Ed Seiber add bench strength.

The Betas lost “do-it-all” John Baker, but sophomore Randy Ely may fill his shoes. Another sophomore, Kevin Harkey, supplies board power and helps Ely with the scoring. Veterans Henry Marrow and John Douglas, plus sophomore Clayton Daley round out the starting five. Greg Cameron, Jeff Lynn, and Hi Lankanau lead the reserves. Given a few breaks, the Betas could threaten.

The Independents should have the strongest squad in years. All-IMAC Mike Mikolayunas is an outside gunner, and Frank Soos, Mike O'Malley, John McCammon, Harlan Day, and John Porter are all capable, experienced performers. Mark Baker and Tom Fondren add depth. This could be a very strong team if it can stay together.

Cannon II was the surprise team in flickerball and could upset in basketball. Calvin Allen, Rocky Bankester, and Steve Johnson are tough inside and Steve Gates and Dave Ingold form a good backcourt combo. Mack Mitchell, Steve Rudell, and Chris Holly will also play a lot.

The Sig Eps are sophomore dominated and a question mark. Larry Duncan, Eddie Johnston, and Bill Alexander are the best of the sophomores, with Wade Shepherd, Dave Shepler, and Rob Hoy supplying experience. Larry Spears is the best rebounder.

The Pi Kaps hope to end losing ways with an influx of a good crop of sophomores. Pat Curley, Jim Thompson, and Clint McCann form the frontline, with Ron Altman and Sanford Steelman the guards in the all-sophomore line-up. Phil Drake, Jimmy Hunter, and John Barbee are top reserves.

East is largely an unknown quantity, but if it gets organized may be a factor. Tom McKenzie, Loren Clay, Jim McNair, Owen Dickens, and Mitch Purvis are likely starters. Tony Martlit, Bob Tsner, and Phil Bishop will play a lot also.

The Nus may be the worst team in the league. Kent Beard is a good ballplayer, but has little help. Skip Greathouse, Bob Potter, Gary Long, Charlie Davis, Jim Doss, and Jim Stanfield round out the squad.

League B

The defending champion Pikas return all-IMAC first team members Mark Affeldt and Floyd Strand, who are almost a good team by themselves. But there's more. Starters Gary Scibaland Jack Ballenger return, but sophomore Dennis Watson has put the latter on the bench. Sharpshooting John Calhoun rounds out the starting five. Sophomores Seaton Taylor and Dave Stimpson are strong subs, as the Pikas have the best bench in the league. They'll have to play poorly to lose. The Delts rate the nod for a distant second, but are much weaker than 1970's runner-ups. Junior Greg Sikes and Woody Montgomery are rugged, and sophomores Mike Deese, Andy Davis, and Bob Lewis can play. Hamp Whittington, Hugh Gaither, and Drew White give the Delts a good bench, but the loss of several stars to the Indies keeps the Delts from being a much stronger ballclub.

The Gamms have a good starting five but lack size and depth. Charlie Parks and sophomore John Willits are the forwards, Jim Ellison at center, sophomore Mike Tombari and steady Scott Nicholson the guards. Ed Dietrich and Robert Norris will play a lot. The Machis have high-scoring John Saunders, good all-around play from Herb Clegg and Jack Latimer, but lack height and depth. Howard Boyd and either Adam Robinson or Reif Kessler are the other starters, with Walt Walker, Jim Hudson, and Phil Dotts on the bench.

The ATO’s are led by playmaker Jim Montgomery, big Bob Peele inside, and sophomore scorer Mitchell Johnson. Veterans Mort Chiles and Jim Hawkins round out the starting five. Ted Woods, Chipper Jones, and Eddie Bridges supply bench strength. Watts-Belk has a balanced team which should get better as the season goes along. Probable starters include Bill McIlwain, Eldon Basham, John Simms, Bob Warnken, and Dave Duggins. Frank Folger, Bill Higgins, and David Daniels will see plenty of action.

You might just call the KA's the Williamses. All-IMAC Steve, Lou, and sophomore Waryl all start, along with Charlie Terrell and Jim Roy. Both Steve and Lou are prolific scorers, but may not get enough support to better last year's 3-9 record. Seniors Jim Crouse and Bob Truit and sophomores Bob Solberg and Elliot Savage back up the first five. Paul Brown, Larry Graham, Bill Sims, Ted Ellet, and Mike Reed are probable starters for East II. Mike Allport, John Webel, Dave Kittrell, and Mike McFarland are some who will see action.

For Cannon I, George Poe, Andy McLawhorn, and Charlie Slagle form a strong 1-2-3 punch. Edgar Weir and Dave Bender may also start, with Doug Berry, Walt Walker, and Steve Earp in reserve.

Wolfpack Downs Cat Grapplers

The Wolfpack's effort included several pins and a 13-2 victory by Steve Rhode, the outstanding wrestler in the ACC a year ago. Coach Charles Parker remained optimistic: "We have a good wrestling team, but we just weren't ready for what happened last night (Tuesday). We wrestled badly, and I hope we don't wrestle like that again." The next meet for the Wildcats is Jan. 29 at VMI, in what should be a close contest. VMI has a good team, but according to Parker, "Nothing like N.C. State." Physically, the 'Cats will be nearly back to full strength with the return of Ronnie Williams, who had been suffering from mononucleosis. However, the team also received some bad news. Rob Benton, who had been counted on early in the season in the 126-pound class, will probably miss the rest of the season due to a dislocated elbow which has not been showing much improvement since he sustained the injury early in December.

Lyon Wins Aid Grant

Rick Lyon, standout end for Davidson's football team, has been awarded a $1,000 postgraduate scholarship by the National College Athletic Association. The grant, one of 33 presented by the NCAA, may be used at the school of Lyon's choosing. The football and track star from Wheaton, Ill. is an English major with a 3.7 grade average out of a possible 4.0. The NCAA makes these awards on the basis of athletic ability and academic excellence.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Where-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Lasagna — Chicken Parmigiana — Steak — Salads
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.