Page Six
September 24, 1971
The Bavidaonian

Sidelines
with HOWARD BOYD
Assistant Sports Editor

Well, here it is the second week of the flickerball season and I'm just now getting around to making my
“pre-season” forecast. Oh, well, after my horrendous predictions last year, I need all the help I can get. Without further
ado, then, into the brink:

League A
Division I

1. Delts—After winning 44 of their last 45 games, the defending champions appear a little weaker after heavy graduation losses,
but still should walk off with divisional honors. All-star tailback Bick Halligan keys the offense, with understanding assistance from Jim
Brown, Bill McIlwain, and Jack Hartman, returning from Europe. Veteran Hugh Gaither, ex-footballer Andy Ingles, and Soph Mitch Purvis spearhead
an aggressive offense.

2. ATO—The Taus hope to snap back from an off-year but lost some key players via diplomas. Tailback Mitchell Johnson,
Chipper Jones, and Bill Gupton form a solid backfield corps, while versatile Jim Ray, speedy Kent Beard, and Joel Bradley
are the ends, while Dave Crumpler and Bill Sherwood round out the line-up. The Taus lack depth but have good
speed and should be improved. Duncan McGooghan rates as top soph.

3. Cannon I—Cannon I could be a frosh team to watch. John Scholer, Gray Lindsay, Bob Ames, Tom Hibbet, Tom
Prince, John Fowler, and Kahuna James (that’s right) form the nucleus of what may develop into a solid outfit with
seasoning.

4. Betas—The problem of combining two groups into one cohesive unit has hindered the Betas' organizational efforts, which are usually
poor. However, although not as fast, the Betas have a potentially solid squad which may come on strong in the
late season. Tailback Al Trostorff sparks the attack, with help from steady Scott Nicholson and rangy John Douglas at ends.
Powerful Greg Cameron goes both ways at halfback and heads a tough defense along with veterans Earl Ellis and Ed
Dietrich and flashy Randy Ely. Betas need more offensive punch to go with good defense to challenge for playoffs.

5. Watts I—A difficult team to assess. Watts I hasn't shown much offense but appears to be fairly sound defensively.
With added offensive power, they could give Taus, Cannon I, and Betas a battle for second. Offensive standouts include tailback
John Hornickel, halfback Barney Brewton and Jack Greer, and ends Woody Van Meter and Bobby Avary. On defense, Rick Quimby,
Fred Krieg, Dave Ward, and Bill Morris lead the charge.

Division II

1. Sigs—The Sigs led the league until mid-season injuries felled them a year ago. Once again they have great talent,
perhaps the best depth in the league, and superior speed. Fireplug tailback Bill Barnhill, seasoned vet Dave Russell at halfback,
quick guard Billy Clark, and ex-varsity quarterback Greg Gerdy spark the attack force. Cooper Geraty, Randy Webster, and Dave Griffiths
are fleet and talented as defensive standouts. Frank Clark has good range and quickness at defensive end. Sigs appear as
strong as 1970 and should wage a torrid duel with Pikas for the individual crown.

2. Pikas—The Pikas, as usual, have good depth (despite the loss of all-purpose Mark Affeldt) plus what is probably the
league’s best backfield in rifle-armed tailback Blair Abee and fast, elusive halfbacks Pete Spink and journeyman Will Ryan. All-star performer
Ray Swetenburg has all the tools at rusher and offensive end. Cager John Pecorak looms large at defensive end, while
well-traveled Tom Ross teams with Swetenburg at offensive flanker. Steady vet Allen Woodward at center, and speed merchant Dave Mehlen
at guard anchor the line. Muscular Greg Gandee, elusive Bill Lear, dependable old hand Grier Newlin, Alex Gordon, and experienced
Bob Randall make a strong bench.

3. Cannon-Watts—This could be the best of the freshmen teams. Andy Langford, Chuck Gladu, Dan Henderson, Bobby Clayton, John Lemon,
Tim Rogers, Denson Hargrave, and Mark Conners are the principal performers. The offense looks to be explosive, but the defense
has yet to be tested. They will have a difficult time making the playoffs due to Sigs and Pikas.

4. Emanon II—A weak teambut could play a spoiler role. Tailback Dave Parkhurst is the chief offensive operator. Vet Tom
Sinks, mammoth Charlie Kilgore, Phil Drake, Dan Harkinson, Frank Sommerville, and John Douglas are other top players.

5. Nus—Should be improved over last year, but that’s not saying much. Tailback Tom Jenkins and end Bill Sims are
team leaders. Experienced hands Jim Stanfield, Charlie Davis, and Bill Humbert join newcomers Scott Schreiber and Andy Bailey to form
the nucleus of the squad. Defense is the strong point, while offense lacks punch. (League B next week)

Freshmen Run Cake Race Despite Cancellation Threats
By BILL MORRIS
Sports Writer

After one delay due to postponement and despite the threat of a boycott of a “useless and outmoded” tradition, the
36th running of the annual Freshman Cake Race took place as scheduled last Tuesday.

The race began on the starting line, which is appropriate for most races usually start there, with most of the
freshmen participating in spite of the efforts to induce them to boycott. With the sound of the gun, the mass
of freshmen surged forward across the soccer field toward where the course led down into the woods. In the same
general area was part of the Davidson football team. I bet Coach Fagg wishes he had a pass rush like
that.

The screaming hordes, meanwhile, had made it into the woods and it was fun to see if the guy ahead
of you made it as he tried to squeeze past between some guys on the right and this big pine
tree on the left. It was even funnier if he didn’t make it. You laughed as you stepped on him
and went on.

The woods were nice if you were a Boy Scout but the fun began when we hit Concord Road and
began the climb. About halfway up on the side of the road was a sign that said, “Begin 35 MPH
1000 Feet Ahead” so things slowed down for a while, but picked up as the leaders pounded down toward Jackson
Court and the turnoff for the final burst of speed. (Notice those action verbs. You can tell I watch Howard
Cosell and Don Meredith on Monday Night TV.)

The freshmen finally staggered into Richardson Field and onto the track and after 9:21.5 seconds of fun, Ricky Bell led
the rest of the freshmen across the finish line. Of course, the six freshman cross-country runners took the first six
places, they knew where all the trees were (I wonder what ever happened to that guy I stepped on?). Watts
dorm took seven of the top fifteen places and Don Long deserves acclaim for being the last freshman to finish.
Sympathies also should be extended to No. 81. So ended another cake race.

Booters Host Methodist

The Davidson soccer team opens its season tomorrow afternoon with a home game against Methodist College. The Wildcat team has
been acclaimed by coaches and players as an improvement over last year's Southern Conference champs. In their first appearance last
Saturday, the booters defeated the Charlotte Soccer Club 4-0. The game was called early by soccer coach Harry Fogleman due
to the threat of developing fights.

The Wildcats will meet Methodist at 2 p.m. tomorrow on Sprunt Field. Last Tuesday, Dick Levan was elected captain of
the Davidson team. This is the second year he has filled that position.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.
170 N. Main

Whatever you want, we’ve got
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N. C.

“The best picture I have seen this year!”
1615 ELIZABETH AVE.
“The state of American society is stated brilliantly!”
