September 24, 1971 Page Five

Plagiarism: Angels Have Dirty Faces

AN ANALYSIS By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor

Plagiarism is a pretty stupid thing at a college with such academic prestige as Davidson. But this doesn’t keep students
from doing it because nine out of ten times the offense is unintentional. “It's an entirely different thing when a
guy does something deliberately,” said Duff Bruce, chairman of the Honor Court. “But when his infraction comes from a misunderstanding,
it is tragic and senseless.”

Tragic and senseless mistakes caught up with three Davidson students in the past two years, including one student twice. Although
plagiarism is usually committed by freshmen or sophomores, the honor court has tried juniors and seniors for the offense in
past years. Viewing its relationship to the Honor Court, Bruce commented, “Plagiarism has been the most ticklish case to handle.
We have to deal with people who have no concept of what their crime is. Most of them think that
the language as well as the thought is their own.”

Each year the Wildcat Handbook includes the Honor Code for the perusal of every freshman, along with a clarification of
plagiarism, calling it “literary dishonesty.” The dictionary defines plagiarism as “copying or imitating the language, ideas, and thoughts of another
and passing off the same as one’s original work.” The handbook continues, “If, in a theme, you copy the language
of someone else (source books, another theme, etc.) you must put all such language within quotation marks, and indicate the
source in a footnote.”

The handbook adds that the above holds for parts of a sentence and also for paraphrasing, which requires a footnote.

Davidson (Continued from Page 3)

...has only come about in the last fifteen years. The students registering as Democrats suggest that this party provides a
more accommodating ideology to youth than the Republican party of their parents.

The basis for the poll was to analyze student reaction to the 26th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which gave
complete voting rights to young people of the ages 18-21. A national magazine has estimated that 25 million new voters
will be eligible to vote in 1972. Early nationwide registration surveys would indicate that the Democrats might benefit by as
much as a 3:1 margin from the newly enfranchised.

The effect that 25 million potential votes could have in an election is all the more startling when one considers
that Nixon only received 31.8 million votes in 1968.

One of the problems that perplexed those answering the poll was the fact that registration practices around the country vary
greatly. One Mississippi student commented on the changes in voter registration which took place with the federal Voting Rights Act
in the sixties. “There was a time when nobody in my state could register without some difficulty. This was bad.
Well, the federal government had a good idea but they messed it up badly in practice. Now any fool can
register.

“When I went in to register they asked me for no identification whatsoever, and I could see that they were
going out of their way to bring in other people by the carloads to sign their name without checking.

“Now in Mississippi the voting process is so watered down that there really is nothing to vote for. I can
vote in both primaries if I want to.”

One Florida student expressed his dilemma with out-of-state registration. “In Florida, the federal government says that I can register as
a college student in another state and vote there. Here in North Carolina a state law says that I can’t
vote here because I’m from Florida. And nobody wants to put up with the hassle of voting on an absentee
ballot.”

In some states up north, registering for people under 21 has become difficult in some sections where the population resents
the 26th Amendment. One New Jersey student remarked, “In my home town I can register without identification, but in other
places guys have to drive 50 miles to another town to register because of the feeling against young people who
want to register.”

The 26th Amendment may be law in fact, but registration for some youths is as tricky as voting in Cooke
County.

Although Davidson students are registered roughly in the same patterns predicted by experts when the voting age was lowered, there
are some background differences between this college and the national average which might give a more honest perspective to the
poll. More than half of the students who responded to the poll are registered to vote, but only one-fourth of
the student body even bothered to answer the poll, and a minority of these answered parts of it incorrectly.Therefore, the
group which answered the poll does not represent a valid sampling of the student body because it more than likely
includes those who are the least apathetic at Davidson. The 250 students who filled out the poll probably show a
greater interest in politics and student activism than the other 800 who ignored the poll. The Davidson student is a
special cross-section of people also. The majority of the student body is from the South, and most are the sons
of upper-class parents. Davidson students are supposed to be better equipped mentally than the average student, and maybe this accounts
for the variety of witty remarks added to a number of the polls. But what really bothers us most is,
if Davidson students are really that smart, how come 29 of the polls came back with “yes” marked for the
question, “How are your parents registered?”

Convocation: A Time When Academia Dons Her Official Regalia.

But apparently the handbook is not popular reading. Most continue to ignore any warnings that they might hear in a
special hall meeting when an honor court member drops by. They remain in ignorance until they find themselves before a
jury, stammering helplessly while their college education flies out the window. Bruce mentioned that creative writing for literary awards or
classes also comes under the definition of plagiarism. There has been one such case in the past. “Plagiarism on any
kind of paper is a serious thing,” Bruce stated. “Nitpicking, you could find a technical violation of plagiarism in any
research paper, but we have enough trouble with blatant quotations of long passages. Freshmen come here from a public school
system and know nothing about an honor code. It's hard to expect them to know what's going on. When the
workload is dumped on them, they get pressed for time on papers, and then you never can tell what they
will do.” Bruce added, “We’re not out to get anybody. We simply want to get the facts about plagiarism out
so that nobody gets into trouble because of ignorance.”

Most cases of plagiarism would not be exposed if the student himself did not tip off the professor by listing
the source in the bibliography or in a footnote. Unless the professor is familiar with a particular book from which
a student draws his information or unless the style is blatantly unlike that of the student, there is little evidence
to implicate the offender. Bruce feels that the professor can play a major role in preventing plagiarism in his classes.
“First, if a student is unsure as to what plagiarism is, he should ask a professor. The professor should, on
the other hand, make it abundantly clear, and there are some that do, just what he considers plagiarism to be
in his papers.”

Problems often arise because each professor has his own way of defining and handling plagiarism. Bruce remarked, “A professor might
not turn a guy in, but at the same time he might flunk a guy in the course. This has
happened in the past.” A professor is also left with the option of wielding the sword of Damocles over any
student whom he suspects of plagiarism, making it extremely difficult for the student to do well in the course while
not flunking him outright.

Progress is being made in the entire area of honor violations, and Bruce feels that the new system of governance
regulations will aid the student in several ways. Bruce believes that the Student Hearing Committee, formed from a combination of
the Honor Court and the regulations court, will “speed up the process a great deal, sparing the student the agony
of waiting for a trial. Also, a student-faculty committee has been created to make amendments to the Code of Responsibility,
which is a real plus.”

The faculty is also acting to update its position on plagiarism. Dean of Students Will H. Terry pointed out that
the Faculty Executive Committee “has been instructed by the faculty to write a definition of plagiarism that will provide a
consensus of opinion for all professors.” Terry added, “The definition of plagiarism differs a great deal with course expectations, and
we are searching for a reliable definition flexible enough to be interpreted by the faculty.”

There is one fact that the new system has not changed. Four years ago a student was suspended from college
for two years for a conviction of plagiarism. The sentence is not as long anymore, but the punitive damage for
the character of the victim is just as effective. Perhaps an earnest effort in the area of prevention might frustrate
plagiarism as well as a cure that might rupture the college education of an individual that is suffering only from
an overdose of ignorance.
