By WINDY MARCH
Staff Writer

For the past couple of days, there has been an important guest on the Davidson campus. His name is Lakshmi
Kant Jha; he is a Brahmin; and he is the Indian ambassador to the U.S. He is altogether a fascinating
man. He speaks Cambridge English through clouds of smoke from his British-made cigarettes. His voice is low and mellifluous, obviously
the voice of a cultured man. When he talks politics, he speaks with confidence from a background of long and
varied involvement in the mammoth political and economic problems of his mammoth country.

He was educated at Cambridge, during the time that John Maynard Keynes was writing there and supporting the school by
shrewd investments. Jha also studied economics and then entered the elite Indian Civil Service, at a time when British, rather
than Indians, were preferred for the service. He held important posts in provincial administration, and then moved into key positions
in national government. He has specialized in the area which concerns India most — the economic development of the country.

Now, at age 57, he is ambassador to the U.S., and you need only talk to him for a short
time to realize his eminent qualifications for that post. His attitude toward the problems of developing his country is strengthened
by knowledge, understanding, and optimism.

The Davidsanian
February 26, 1971
Page Three

Jha Describes Promising Future

Indian democracy, he says, is working well. “Sixty percent of the eligible voters voted in the last elections," he said,
and even in the least developed areas of the country, “it was possible to detect a rational and intelligent voting
pattern.

“If the people are dissatisfied, they will vote accordingly. If a dictatorial regime attempts to suppress dissent, the dissent will
still be there.”

Democracy and socialism, he feels, are the only methods by which India’s problems can be solved in the long run.
But the word socialism, to most Indians, means not state ownership of most property and industry, but rather, “the egalitarian
distribution of resources among private owners.”

He had some surprising things to say about the population problem in India. “Today, India is not overpopulated in terms
of land area." The problem is the low per-

Asian Program Expanding

The College of Wooster and Callison College of the University of the Pacific. Unassuming as that pair of schools may
sound, both represent levels of achievement for Frederick H. Gaige, instructor of political science and head of the Davidson College
South Asia program. Wooster and Callison have two of the finest South Asian programs in the country, according to Gaige,
“but within two or three years, we think that Davidson can have one of the finest undergraduate programs of its
type in the country.”

The progress of the South Asian studies program has been a rapid one. In 1969, when Gaige arrived to direct
its development, the only course on the subject was a course on comparative religions of South Asia. Along with the
growth of the department has been a parallel growth among interested faculty members. This year David Kaylor, Professor of Religion
and Bible, is in India studying Hinduism. This summer another nine faculty members may study in Southeast Asia, partially under
funds granted by the federal government.

The administration has also committed itself to the acquisition of two additional South Asian specialists for next year, an anthropologist
and a linguist. Gaige is also attempting to establish a junior year abroad program in India. John M. Bevan, Vice-president
for Academic Affairs, began work on this in December when he spoke in Hong Kong at the Second Asian Workshop
of Higher Education. Bevan, as a former vice president at the University of the Pacific, has been directly connected with
the establishment of the Callison College program at Bangalore in South India. He spent considerable time in India working with
the Indian educators overseeing American academic programs.

Gaige sees this week’s South Asian Festival as part of the development of the program at Davidson and a chance
to stimulate development of such programs at other schools as well. Tomorrow’s meeting of administrators may, Gaige said, provide an
impetus to interinstitutional cooperation in South Asian Studies. The word is out, the Davidson South Asia program is getting into
full operation. The College of Wooster and Callison College had better start looking over their shoulders.Capita income of the average
Indian is $80. Substantial improvement of this figure, he said, is a long way off. "Computerized predictions established 1975 as
'famine year' in India," he said, "but increased food production, the so-called Green Revolution, has already pushed this date back."
The Indians are now engaged in a race against time. Increasing food production can maintain the nutritional situation in India
at its present level. If the population can be stabilized in that time, massive famine can be avoided. But the
low standard of living, he said, is the main obstacle to lowering the birth rate. And this low standard will
be hard to raise. Ambassador Jha feels that these problems can be solved, but even in his more optimistic words,
he shows a troubled understanding of the grim realities facing the Indians.

Symbols, Color Dominate Exhibit
A REVIEW By MRS. AUSTRA GAIGE

Tibet has always been an inaccessible, forbidden land, exotic and mysterious, consistently romanticized by those who have studied it. The
impression has been vividly reinforced by the privileged few who have been admitted entry and by the more numerous who
have gathered fragmentary impressions about Tibet from the refugees who have fled to India and Nepal since the Chinese takeover
of Tibet in 1950.

Tibetan art has not been studied for long or extensively, so it is perhaps presumptuous to try to summarize the
art of Tibetan painting in a few pages. However, this exhibit represents a vision so strange and complex, that a
mini-introduction is better than none.

These paintings are called tankas and referred to in the West as banner-painting, painted scrolls, or prayer banners. They are
foremost sacred and ceremonial objects which try to represent the divine world of Tibetan Buddhism, sometimes called Lamaism. They are
painted by monks in monasteries according to iconographic and technical rules prescribed by sacred texts. No other type of painting
could be more wholly religious.

Generally, the focus of the tanka is a central deity, surrounded by lesser deities, who are often variations of the
main figure. The background is ordinarily composed of scenes from the lives of Tibetan saints and teachers or some geometric
framework such as the wheel of life or the mandala form. The lamas who paint tankas do so as an
act of worship and not as an act of conscious artistic self-expression. Naturally, there is a wide range of artistic
quality. Some tankas are quite ordinary in conception, executed with limited skill. Some tankas are painted by highly creative lama-artists,
often only after the artist has had a visionary experience.

In any case, the lama-artists do not paint for individual recognition or material reward. Their works are therefore never signed
and only rarely dated. There are a great many tankas because of their universal use in worship. Some Westerners feel
that the widespread use of tankas in Tibet and the strict canons regarding their execution have led to much stereotyped
reproduction. Some art historians are amazed at how little repetition there is.

Unless we become students of Tibetan Buddhism and learn to understand the intricate subject matter of the tankas, we are
able to appreciate only their visual effect. An indisputable attraction of these paintings is their coloring—its boldness, variety, contrast, and
harmony. The composition of most tankas evokes a feeling of order, unity, and balance. Another striking feature is the elaborate,
ingenious, and exquisite detail. There is no perspective, little or no shading, all figures are contained by line or color,
and there is little unutilized space.

There are two recurring themes evident in the tankas on exhibit and in nearly all Tibetan painting—themes which are especially
foreign to us. These are the terrifying deities and the representation of divinities in sexual embrace. The ferocious deity is
not necessarily a devil or evil. He may be a beneficial deity who has assumed a wrathful form for the
purpose of terrifying evil spirits or evildoers. These are called "defenders of the law" or "protectors of the faith." Other
terrifying deities represent evil forces, depicted in order that people may become aware of their presence in the world and
placate them.

The use of sexual symbolism may be explained by its pervasiveness in all mysticism. Tibetan Buddhism, like some other religions,
has never tried to deny that sex is the most deep-rooted and powerful of the human instincts. The female deity
symbolizes wisdom and the male deity power or "method" which is utilized by wisdom. The Tibetans call these deities yab-yum,
which means father-mother. The two in union, naturally, are also symbolic of the creative forces.

(Staff photo by Manley)
TIBETAN BUDDHIST DEITY
The painting is one of 11 in the Stowe Gallery.
