Che Bavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
TED HEEFNER, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR FEBRUARY 26, 1971

Educational Stagnation

The current controversy concerning required physical education has uncovered a much more pervasive problem at Davidson than that of compulsory
P.E. It involves not only the school’s curriculum policy, but also the traditional Davidson attitude towards education. Despite the high
reputation that Davidson has maintained as an educational institution, it seems that the primary concern here has historically been one
of production, not education. The college has dedicated itself to producing college graduates rather than to educating human beings. Education
has been understood as that which is needed to earn a diploma: The student has been considered “educated” when he
has completed the school’s requirements for graduation. All too often at Davidson, the quality of the college product has been
judged by his ability to adapt to certain meaningless classroom experiences rather than by his willingness to learn.

Such an educational philosophy still permeates Davidson attitudes. It is evident in the administration mentality, as C. David Cornell, vice-president
of finance and development, demonstrated in a recent interview when he stated that, to go coed, Davidson must improve such
departments as music, art, and sociology. The administration apparently has not realized that the male students already at Davidson have
just as great a need for improvement in such areas of study as any future female students.

The faculty is just as guilty of maintaining such an attitude towards education as the administration. Many of Davidson’s finest
professors have allowed themselves to become caught in a web of mediocrity and boredom, not because of lack of ability
or incentive, but because they have not exerted the energy which would allow them to break free of the traditional
academic syndrome at Davidson. It is indeed unfortunate that such qualified teachers should become so poorly acclimated to the pervading
attitudes of the college.

Most of the blame for the Davidson educational philosophy, however, lies with the student body. It is rare that a
student interested in genuine intellectual activity and pursuit survives four years of Davidson without allowing himself to become apathetic and
disenchanted with learning. Graduation becomes the goal, not education; grades become the concern, not knowledge. The students have allowed themselves
to become emasculated production units.

However, things are beginning to look up. Recent developments have given indications that, under the ever-growing influence of Vice-president of
Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, education at Davidson is progressing very rapidly. The Junior Year Abroad program is slated to
be expanded and improved in the next few years. The Honors College, despite its false start, has a great deal
of potential, as does the Eight-College Exchange program. Finally, there is the Extended Studies program, probably the most promising and
exciting of educational opportunities at Davidson.

The most amazing and effective development, however, has been the recent change in the attitude of a number of students.
Admittedly they are still in the minority in their efforts for progressive and meaningful education, but they are an increasingly
vocal and influential minority. All of which goes to show that the traditional Davidson attitude toward education is improving.

This leads us back to the question of required physical education. Such a notion, it seems to us, smacks of
the old attitudes and archaic prep school concepts of “a sound mind in a sound body” and does nothing to
promote new programs in education. Therefore, we feel that in keeping with the present concern with educational reform and in
recognition of a new understanding of education that is growing at Davidson, compulsory P.E. should be abolished.

CECIL BURNEY

College Church To Serve Role In Brave New World

The Davidson College Presbyterian Church building is ugly. It is also not used much. The building is massive, and because
of its size and the fact that it was the pet project of College President John Cunningham, it has been
called “The Cathedral of St. John the Divine.” The structure is composed of a large sanctuary (which was supposed to
seat all 1,000 students, but actually only seats 800 because of an architectural mistake), a rarely used chapel, and a
large Sunday school building. The Sunday school building houses 12 classrooms, 4 offices, 2 lounges, 7 bathrooms, 1 library, 2
kitchens, and a large dining room with a stage. Also located in the basement is a fallout shelter which I
found locked upon my inspection. Perhaps that shelter is reserved for the three first families of Davidson in case of
attack: the Sam Spencers, the Shaw Smiths, and the Ed Whites.

Three years ago, Sam Spencer signed a contract which supposedly authorized a total of $214,000 worth of redecorating for the
church. The college must pay this upkeep because the Presbyterians are using the building for free since the building actually
belongs to the College. For this amount, the College repaired the roof and ceiling, painted the interior, dusted the pews,
rebuilt the organ, installed a long gold carpet, and bought expensive parquet material for the chancel floor. (The parquet wood,
incidentally, does not match its own design in some places.) The College church was designed fora worshipping community, which Davidson
now is not. It is quite distressing to go to a service in that building now and to see the
place so empty. Maintenance is not worth the effort, and the College is wasting badly needed space. Therefore, I suggest
the following:

1. Take out the church pews, and turn the main sanctuary into a free-form theatre with moveable stages and seats.
This can be used for plays (since Hodson Hall is so inadequate), concerts, and other creative ventures.
2. Turn the chapel into an art gallery.
3. Use the large Sunday school building for Davidson’s first commune. Kitchen facilities are already there, and living quarters could
be easily provided. (Make sure that this commune is co-ed, and admit a large number of girls to the College
immediately.)
4. Utilize the steeple as an FM antenna for WDAV-FM.

(My critics will say that we cannot do this because of our tradition and history, because this building is essential
to “the life of the College,” and because valuable financial support from the Presbyterian Church will be cut off. This
sounds like an institutionalized castration complex. My own perceptions tell me that wherever truth is, it is obviously not where
the members of this church look for it.)

I know, too, that some members of that hearty band of Scotch Presbyterians who, with compulsion, attend each Sunday service
at the church, will suffer some deprivation anxiety as their services (on which their entire life depends) are yanked from
beneath them. For them, I offer one or more of the following suggestions:

1. Stay home Sundays at eleven and sleep like the rest of the world does.
2. Go out into the real world and relate to people on meaningful levels like Jesus reportedly did. Specifically, get
to know some students and some of the very poor people who live in this community.
3. Donate your Sunday clothes to your favorite charity, or, if you happen to know people who need them (which
you probably don’t), give the clothes to them personally.
4. If the malady persists and you can't get away from a liturgical service, convert to the Episcopalian religion, join
the “Tinkertoy Cathedral” (St. Alban’s), and attend their services, which are much more aesthetically pleasing. Or join churches near here
which are attended by blacks and poor people who never could afford the expensive dress necessary to go to the
D.C.P.C.

Now I know that the idea of using Davidson's resources to their best advantage has never crossed the minds of
my favorite people: Sam Spencer, Jack Bevan, Will Terry, Dick Burts, Scott Woodmansee, and Shaw Smith. But this is a
serious suggestion, and the development of a creative arts center and commune (in addition to a profitable Eskimo pie factory)
or perhaps a good community center for this entire area, for both blacks and whites, is certainly worth considering. The
use of this building might bring co-education a little closer, in spite of Mr. Cornell’s inane comments in last week’s
THE DAVIDSONIAN about the subject.

Official Explains Voting Procedure

To the Editors:

This is to clarify some confusion as to the determination that a 2/3 vote of the entire student body would
have been required to overturn the Senate’s invitation to Rennie Davis. This decision was not arbitrarily made nor intentionally made
so as to render the chances of reversing the Senate’s action impossible. The Constitution and By-Laws Committee made its interpretation
of the relevant section of the SGA Constitution in accordance with past precedent (last year’s open dorm referendum) and in
keeping with the actual wording of the Constitution, which does require a 2/3 vote of the SGA. That this requirement
effectively stifles referenda, as some have charged, is not true; and the open dorm referendum passed overwhelmingly despite the 2/3
requirement. That it may need modification is another matter. The Constitution and By-Laws Committee is currently considering revisions of our
written operating procedure, and questions such as these will certainly be considered.

Danny Clodfelter, '72
Davidson College

To the Editors:

Surely there is no one person at this school who has not recently become aware of the latest campus vogue—dropping
out for a term. I write of course regarding these ROTC students who, because of low priority draft numbers, feel
as if they may drop out of school for one term in order to avoid fulfilling their contract with the
Army. Thus they forfeit their chance to serve their country in the way only (and in the only way) a
real patriotic American should. What has gone wrong? Will no one stand up for America? You dare desert when your
country needs you most? This country was built on blood, and American blood shall continue to be spilt in order
to pay for and to preserve the precious emancipation of their planet. Therefore I urge these deserters and contract breakers
(now numbering about eight) to return and face up to their moral duty as men. And just maybe then all
will be well with the world!

James H. Ross, Jr. '71
Davidson College
