Che Bautdsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR OCTOBER 8, 1971

A Mouthful Of New Ideas

The cafeteria service is to be commended for the changes which have been instituted. Ron Scott and Keith Carson have
inaugurated several new ideas which satisfy several student complaints of the past. The Sunday buffet has been well received. The
a la carte line for lunch has been appreciated, particularly for those who do not hold a meal ticket. The
display of food is much more appealing than in the past where the boiled eggs were the only attempt at
creativity. In addition, Carson and Scott have shown a receptiveness to student complaints and suggestions that has never been a
characteristic of the ARA Slater Corporation in our years at Davidson.

One important issue which has not been handled to the satisfaction of many students, however, is the restrictions placed on
meal ticket holders. As in the past, the college has required all freshmen to purchase meal tickets. As in the
past, to buy a meal ticket one has had to pay for all 20 meals a week, including many breakfasts
he never sees. In addition to the breakfasts, many freshmen and upperclassmen who hold meal tickets miss meals when they
are off campus for weekends. If a person has paid for all of the meals which are served during the
week, he should have the right to allow those meals to be eaten, either by himself or by someone to
whom he has given his ticket. We can see no other reason for making the ticket non-transferable other than the
fact that the cafeteria can thus avoid preparing as many meals as have been purchased.

An Annual Problem

Respect, of sorts, is due our counterpart over on the staff of the Quips & Cranks, the student yearbook. Ronnie
Conoley, the editor of the annual, has demonstrated that, if nothing else, he does have guts, however mindless such a
trait may be. Conoley’s refusal to accept the polled opinion of the student body and the legislative actions of the
students’ senate has become a ridiculous mania, and this irrational stubbornness will serve only to make ludicrous an already pitiable
situation for both the yearbook and its editor.

By asking the Activities Fee Committee to approve a budget of $10,500 for the yearbook, Conoley has not only ignored
a senate decision of last spring limiting yearbook funds to $8,000, but has also caused a rift of sorts on
the committee itself. The three non-student members of the committee, including Professor of Mathematics Richard Bernard, Director of the College
Union C. Shaw Smith, and Business Manager Robert Currie, are painfully sensitive to their position, and according to some reports
have openly expressed their distaste for being under student control and have questioned the role of the committee.

Conoley’s request for $2,500 more than the senate is willing to give has caused a festering wound to become more
inflamed, for at least two of the non-student members of the committee (Smith and Currie) have indicated they would like
to buck the senate and appropriate the extra funds to the yearbook. To do so, however, would not only be
a direct affront to the constitution, but would also set a dangerous precedent of calculated disobedience before other senate committees
and subcommittees.

Furthermore, it is questionable whether the Quips & Cranks deserve more than the $8,000 originally appropriated. Conoley was quite definitely
informed last spring that his budget would be $8,000, yet he has stated that all his planning since that time
has been built on the assumption that he will have $10,500 with which to work. Gutsy, perhaps, but certainly no
sign of intelligent, responsible, or realistic recognition of the financially inevitable.

Also, the student body in a poll conducted last spring indicated by a substantial majority that it favored a definite
reduction in yearbook funds. Last year, Quips & Cranks got approximately $11,000. Finally, there looms large the question of the
worth of the college annual. No one is pleased that last year’s copy is still not with us this year,
and several senators and other vocal students have already expressed doubts as to whether the yearbook product is worth even
$8,000 of student money. Quips & Cranks certainly does have a place at Davidson, but not at some outrageous cost.
We urge Conoley to quit his fruitless fray, come back to the realities of the situation and begin working on
an $8,000 annual. For if indeed the yearbook does deserve the funds he requests, or even those he’s been given,
then it should demonstrate its worth. After all, the proof is in the pudding.

CECIL BURNEY

The American Army Plays Fun And Games On Campus

Davidson's worst tradition in the 1970s is that it continues to support institutions which make wars happen. The most repulsive
thing this college does is to allow the American Army to maintain its R.O.T.C. program here. And there seems to
be little interest on the part of administrators to get rid of it.

The R.O.T.C. program at Davidson is very expensive. There are many employees in the R.O.T.C. department, the cost of equipment
such as uniforms and guns is high, and each year the R.O.T.C. lures students to it by buying their souls
for $50 per month while here. Maintenance of the program also requires that the entire basement of Belk be used
and that R.O.T.C. staff be given a lot of good parking spaces which are badly needed.

R.O.T.C. staff members remind me of little kids who were conditioned to run around playing soldier and war and who
never grew up. They run out to the playing fields on Tuesdays during the fall and spring terms (Not during
the winter, however—I guess they're not expecting to have a war in the winter) and click their rifles around and
march and throw grenades. A couple of times a year they simulate war games out in the woods just as
though they were in Vietnam getting ready to gun down some “gooks.” This is the most infantile and insensitive activity
I see here. It is infantile and moronic.and stupid. Students who still join R.O.T.C. certainly don’t think very much. Many
of them join because their father joined and their grandfather before him was an officer. They make no real attempt
to understand their own feelings, to formulate their own opinions, and to act for themselves. In this sense, R.O.T.C. prolongs
the childhood and adolescence of Davidson students and does not allow them to grow at all. The R.O.T.C. staff, with
their crude jokes, try to make everyone think that it’s all just a big game that’s necessary. But the problem
is that these flatheads don't know the difference between what is a game and what is a very serious matter.
We also have some student flatheads in the local chapter of the Young Americans for Freedom (which was organized by
a student who is an arch-conservative Catholic honky), who are so out of touch with the 1970s that I doubt
that they'll ever grow up. The YAF will probably kill each other off in their conservative greed and psychotic manner.
They are just as insensitive as the worst Army officers.

There are lots of little things, too, which Davidson does that show where its institutional values lie. Last month, Davidson
brought two very out-of-touch men to campus to give them honorary degrees at Convocation, and in describing why Davidson chose
to honor these men, Dr. Spencer read little statements praising their military records. This continues to support the ridiculous notion
that every Davidson degree holder is to be a gentleman and an officer. Many of the trustees (though not all
of them, fortunately) are old military men who merely moved their conservatism from the battlefield to the pulpit and became
ministers after leaving the Army. I have reported before that one of them thinks I am a Communist (which is
really short-sighted) and another has told me that Davidson should have everyone in compulsory R.O.T.C. because for him that was
the best thing he did here at Davidson and every Davidson student must be proud enough to fight for his
country. I really feel sorry for him that he could find nothing more meaningful here than that.

If you really want a picture of why I say all this, listen to the following. There is a young
man who we know, 22 years old, on the threshold of his life just beginning to see where he’s going.
But today, he lies wounded in a small hamlet outside Saigon. He lies twitching and writhing in pain. A series
of bullets has riddled his body. He has vomited and coughed up blood and his stomach, because of a serious
wound there, is oozing blood and bits of flesh and parts of his insides. He looks before him and his
eyes blur and he can't remember what hit him and he can't feel anymore, and then he becomes unconscious and
he can't see. He slumps and falls and is dead and although we knew him before as a friend, we
cannot see him now except in the blood in which he sits. Another man comes to him, counts him on
the list which is sent to headquarters, and headquarters changes the numbers so it won't look so bad.

On the other side of the lines, Dok-Lo looks at the rice field she worked as a child with her
father and mother. It is the rice field from which she got the rice which fed her as a child
and which, until last year, continued to feed her. She looks over the field now, stagnant with the pollution of
hundreds of different chemicals dropped by American bombs to defoliate the jungle nearby, and she soon knows that her field
can never grow anything again. Dok-Lo knows her friends are dead, and the tears from her eyes reflect all the
sadness and the misery and grief that only she can know. Dok-Lo has friends who are dead and our friend
is now dead too. Davidson supported the cause for this death and destruction. Davidson supported the notion that being a
soldier and a killer is admirable. Davidson supported too damn much of the deplorable mess we are in. Now it
is time to mend our ways. R.O.T.C., and all that it represents, must go. Even to have it here one
more year is intolerable.

Fiscal Policy Tied To Reform Needs
By JOHN A. CROWL
Chronicle of Higher Education

The relationship — or lack of it — between higher education's financial troubles and the need for reform in colleges
is a major topic of debate in academic circles this fall. Virtually all of the Association of Governing Boards of
Universities and Colleges spoke of links between fiscal policy and academic reform, although the meeting was supposed to concentrate on
“money” and “management.”

“The problems are interrelated, intertwined, and not really separable,” said Matthew J. Cullen Jr., an education consultant who is a
visiting fellow at the Battelle Memorial Institute. “One appears to be more urgent—the financial,” he said, “while the other appears
to be more important—the educational.” He continued: “Unless our institutions become more flexible, more adaptive, more sensitive to the future
direction and to the learning requirements of the emerging society, they will not survive.”

In questioning the advisability of a proposed program of federal grants to institutions, James B. Cardwell, Assistant Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, repeated an argument that has been voiced by other members of the Nixon Administration. He asked, “As
difficult as the stresses are on the system (of higher education) and its financing, might not the stresses themselves lead
to reforms and efficiencies to the ultimate good of education? By turning to what may prove only to be an
expedient, are we taking the pressure off and thus making it more difficult for those who would improve and reform
and easier for those who, for whatever reason, would preserve the status quo?”

Earl F. Cheit, professor of business administration at the University of California at Berkeley, looked at the problem from a
different angle. Cheit, author of The New Depression in Higher Education based on a study he conducted for the Carnegie
Commission on Higher Education, said: “There must be a commitment for additional investment in higher education.”
