Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR DECEMBER 3, 1971

A Dubious Option

The pass-fail option has been a welcome addition to the Davidson curriculum in the years since it was instituted, but several questions can and should be raised over its administration. The first is the diversity of faculty reaction to a student taking a course pass-fail. Although some welcome such students, others seem to take it as an affront and as an indication that the student intends to do as little work as possible. In the case of such negative responses, it does not seem that the student is doing himself a favor when he is required to get the faculty member’s signature on the pass-fail form for the registrar.

The option of taking a course pass-fail should rest with the student and his advisor. If in consultation with his advisor, a student wishes to take a course on that basis, his signature and that of his advisor should be all that is required. The grades can be turned in to the registrar as normal and the registrar’s office can make the appropriate translation of the grade as P or F. In this manner, the instructor’s evaluation of the student taking a pass-fail course suffers from neither a positive nor negative influence that that knowledge may have on his grading.

The Little Things

It's easy to isolate the major complaints and advantages of a school like Davidson. But it's the little things which make the day-to-day life bearable or miserable. Most of them, they could make a major impact on the visceral life. At the risk of reminding you of your high school newspaper, we have taken the liberty to isolate a few of the “little things.”

Finding the gym locked on a weekday night or a weekend afternoon. Finding that the jukebox has been put on free play. Putting money into one of the myriad of machines and getting nothing back out. Showing your ID to get into a basketball game. Reading THE DAVIDSONIAN (we hope that this one is at least ambiguous). Finding that your courses are all full without you. Rain. Finding five letters in your mailbox. Finding the bookstore closed every time you go by, after 9 or Saturday afternoon. Color TV sets which don’t work. Ugly art in the lounges. Classes which run long. Paying two dollars for a parking sticker and not finding a place to park it. Sunshine (Davidson is a Presbyterian school, that should give us an in).

The Crosswhite Saga

While on the subject of thoughts that make us smile, we would be negligent if we did not comment on the recent appearance at Davidson of one of the college’s most colorful products. The return of the near-legendary Rocky Crosswhite to the Davidson campus, the scene of his many literary successes and athletic frustrations as spokesman for the basketball team bench, sparks fond memories of a time when men were men and skins were skins.

Most students and many of the faculty and administration never had the opportunity to watch a typical Crosswhite move (on or off the court) or to read his very witty and revealing column, From the Bench, on the Driesell basketball teams. We remember Rocky’s column, mentioned even in Sports Illustrated, and the breathless anticipation in which students waited for each issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN to “read Rocky.” We remember his yearly all-conference selections, when he would pick the season’s best “skin” team from the likes of VMI, The Citadel, and Richmond. We remember Crosswhite’s tales of Lefty, the successful and controversial basketball coach of an era past, and the chagrin the column often caused the great foot stomper. We remember Rocky’s choices for the campus “Who's Nothing,” including a newspaper editor, and his end-of-the-year state-of-the-college reflections, not all of which got into print.

Finally, we remember Rocky, beyond his sacrilegious literary and athletic feats, as a warm and sensitive person, a man with real insight into what can give the Davidson community a gutload of laughter, and with the ability to stimulate such laughter. Now that Crosswhite has gone “down under” to the greener pastures of Australian basketball, we again wish him the best, and hope that his days are full of shirts, and never skins.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Transylvania Starters Set; Prospects Dim For Team

To The Editor:

With basketball polls hitting the Hub newsstands, it seems appropriate at this time to explore the possibilities of the team this year at good ol’ TU (Transylvania University). Recruiting has gone well, the promises of blooderade for timeouts, padded coffins, and coeds with extra long necks having pulled in quite an impressive squad. Here, then, is a look at Dr. Frankenstein’s team:

At center of course, will be Dr. Frankenstein’s monster. At 7-1, 300 pounds, he possesses adequate size although he is somewhat slow and foul-prone, especially when angered by a call by the referees or by torches held aloft by the fans. He has a good shooting touch due to the fact that one of his arms once belonged to a star NBA player (R.I.P.).

One wingman, for sure, will be Count Dracula. His unusual soaring ability makes him a great rebounder as well as scorer. He also is a good defensive player, owning one of the most captivating defensive stares in the game. He presents, however, serious problems for scheduling, as he can only play night games. He also refuses to play Catholic teams whose players cross themselves at the foul line.

BOBBY ALLEN

The other wingman is the Fly. He isAn excellent fast break man and is quite pesky on defense. At guard, the Mummy holds down one position. He is a tremendous defensive player, appearing quite slow but always catching his man. His age and experience are very useful to a relatively young team (average age 368) but he plays with injuries to 90% of his body, so it appears. The other starting guard will be the Invisible Man. Big I, as he is known by the fans, is a dazzling player who delights in steals, come-from-nowhere picks, and somewhat unsubtle elbows. Nevertheless, he has never been called for a foul. Height and weight are unknown.

In addition to this dazzling starting lineup, there is an ample corp of reserves. Best depth is at center where 6-6 250 pound The Thing comes in to spell Frank. Plagued with immobility and bad hands, the Thing makes up for these difficulties by killing troublesome referees. Also providing reserve strength in the pivot is King Kong. At approximately 47’ (no one has persuaded him to stand still long enough for measurement) he has the height necessary to become a great college player. Unfortunately, he is only available for action at home games as traveling with him presents problems. He also lacks finesse.

Other important reserves who will see action this year include aggressive Jack the Ripper, whose quick, slashing offensive style leaves the opponents breathless and the crowd in stitches. The Triffid, while quite slow, has the long arms (and the many arms) necessary to be a great rebounder. The Blob, while not much of a scorer, covers the court well on defense and sets one hell of a pick. One of the saddest stories on the team concerns the brilliant and talented Wolfman. Wolf, a savage ballplayer whose quickness and aggressiveness could have earned him an all-league berth, was thrown off the team because he was available for action only once a month and because his shaggy long hair offended some of the influential alumni.

All in all, the prospects appear dim, which is to say, things are good. If they can avoid gyms with mirrors on the walls, and referees with silver whistles, they might just kill everyone they play.

Mike O’Malley ‘72
Scott Keeter ‘72
Davidson College

Good Things Said About D.C.

There are always a lot of bad things to write about Davidson. Not that Davidson is such a terrible place. (I even get to like it sometimes) but the longer you stay around a place, the more it rubs against you. Todd vents his anger by beating dead fraternities:

Cecil Fraternity Votes Coeducation Fund

At the last meeting of Phi Eta Sigma, an underclass scholastic fraternity, the following resolution was introduced and approved.

Whereas Coeducation is a pressing need at Davidson College:
Whereas no significant action is being taken by Davidson College to implement coeducation:
Whereas the administration claims that lack of funds stands in the way of such implementation of coeducation;

Be it therefore resolved:
That Phi Eta Sigma donates a conditional gift of $100 to be matched by Davidson College, earmarked for the sole purpose of planning for the immediate implementation of a significant degree of coeducation at Davidson College. The gift must be matched and used by April 30, 1972 for coeducation for the academic year 1972-73 or the donation will be withdrawn.

Todd likes to see how close he can come to slander—it's just a matter of how you like your hostility served. But since it's almost time for glad tidings and great joy and all, I think it's only proper to say some good things about good ole D.C.

The best way I know of to make D.C. look good is by relating the ‘You think you have got it bad’ story to end all. At a gathering of college newspaper editors last spring, I happened to strike up a conversation with a guy and a girl from a small college in Georgia who were receiving an award for their school paper. After hearing about their school I felt they should have received the M. Ghandi Perseverance Medal. If you think we've got it bad...

At X College (all of this they told me, I swear) shotgun-carrying security police patrol the barbed-wire enclosed campus with loaded guns and frequently get drunk on the job. There are sirens on the dorm doors after 11:00. Girls aren’t allowed outside the dorm with curlers in their hair. There are bad checks. Sixty students were suspended last year for letting their hair grow too long. While interviewing students last spring, the newspaper editors discovered that one student thought Cambodia was the name of a fraternity on campus. Kids can be kicked out of school for public display of affection. There was a recent move to eliminate English as a major course of study. The student body is pro-fraternity, pro-sorority, anti-semitic and anti-Catholic. The average professor can “put speed freaks to sleep.” The hot books on campus are Listen to the Warm and Love Story. But as the editors told me (both of whom were transferring out) ‘it really is a neat place — where else are things so bad that you can hate everything.”

Merry Christmas D.C.

Trustee Action Raises Questions

To The Editor:

The action or inaction by the trustees retaining the Christian requirement for faculty tenure raises serious questions about the outlook for Davidson’s brand of “liberal” education. The Eastern Studies program must be built around guest speakers. Do faculty and students think they have no influence on the trustees or are they unconvinced that the situation merits concern?

Richard Howard ‘70
Perry, N. H.