Unbeaten Booters Down Western 2-1
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The Davidson soccer team continued their roll to an unbeaten season by beating the rain and Western Carolina, and a
conference victory over The Citadel. The ’Cats defeated Western 2-1 here last Tuesday in spite of a downpour that came
in the middle of the third period.

“It was an exciting game,” assistant coach Peter Sterling said, “a real big win for us.”

The first goal was scored in the second period by Tom Tornee, a freshman. “He was the only lineman that
hadn’t scored in a previous game,” Sterling said, “but when he finally did, it was a real impressive goal.” Tornee
scored on an inside kick, between the goalie and the goal, according to Dick Levan, team captain. “He played the
goalie exceptionally well,” Levan said, “and when their goalie moved out, he fired an extremely difficult kick.”

The second Davidson score came on a free kick by fullback Helmut Bernhardt, an exchange student from Malburg, Germany. Besides
the point, Bernhardt won a fish dinner on a bet from head coach Harry Fogleman. Levan also commented on the
defensive play by Bernhardt. Western, a team with a strong attack and a center forward ranked tenth in the nation
in goals last year, was held to only nine shots the entire game.

Neither Levan nor Sterling was quite as excited by the team's 6-1 romp over The Citadel. This was their first
meeting with a conference team. The conference is divided into two sections, by regions, with the Virginia members of the
Southern Conference in the “northern division” and Davidson, Furman, Appalachian, and The Citadel in the “southern division.” At the end
of the season, there is a playoff between division winners for the conference title.

The Wildcats' next conference match will be tomorrow afternoon at Furman. Neither Levan nor Sterling considered the Paladins a serious
threat, although the game will be important in conference standings. But both coach and captain expressed concern over their meeting
with Duke at Durham next Tuesday. Duke has a strong team and is looking for an ACC title, according to
Sterling. “Last year they beat the ’Cats 1-0, and they appear to have improved,” he said. Both teams will come
into the contest undefeated, although the Blue Devils will have played only two games.

AN ANALYSIS
By DON PARMON
Editor-in-Chief

It was one of those rare nights for Wildcat football, not only because of the 27-0 victory, but for the
delight of actually outmanning the opposition. The most charitable excuse for being in Kannapolis, playing against Evans Business College last
Saturday, is that it is a traditional foe for the Wildkittens. Besides that, the Evans Condors are a fun team
to watch. Any formation that has ever been used or even thought about has been implemented by Evans at one
time or another.

The Wildkittens rolled up 349 yards total offense and limited Evans to 113, including 16 yards on 2 of 21
passes. Davidson led in all phases of the game: more rushing, more passing, more interceptions, better punting, more scoring, even
more penalty yardage and more fumbles lost. It became apparent at the outset that the Evans program was not the
same calibre as the Davidson counterpart. Only 24 Condors took the field for grass drills, and no matter how long
you waited, the rest never did appear.

The first half of activity was largely uneventful as Davidson failed to move the ball, while it was difficult to
tell whether the Evans offense was really trying to gain yards or simply baffle the crowd. Evans opened with the
quarterback taking the snap from center while facing the left sideline. The rationale behind this became apparent when the Condors
sprang their

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.
Jewelry

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.
OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY

October 8, 1971
Page Seven

HEADS AWAY
(Staff photo by Campbell)
A Wildcat booter heads the ball in the Davidson win over Western Carolina.

‘Kittens Clobber Condorsneo-single wing with the snap flying past the quarterback to the tailback eight yards deep. Despite the eight-yard
head start, Greg Kalidova, the tailback, still had trouble with his passes as he missed all six in the first
half. Davidson scored its first touchdown when David Harper hit split end Dave Peaco with an 18-yard touchdown pass. The
halftime score was 7-0, with Davidson amassing 96 yards on Harper’s arm while losing one yard rushing. The Condors had
66 yards running. Early in the second half, numbers began to take their toll. It became evident that the Evans
interior line was going both ways en masse. Halfback-cornerback Pat Jarvis was helped off the field after taking a shot
to the head, only to return to the fray with one of the two spare jerseys Evans kept on the
sidelines. One play later, he had on the other. By now the ‘Kittens were moving the ball steadily, behind the
strong running of fullback Steve Still and Scott Buell and Harper’s passing. Harper hit Linn Potts for 15 yards and
a touchdown late in the third quarter for the second score and from then on the Wildkittens moved at will.
Meanwhile, the Condor bench began to look like a Red Cross tent in a hurricane area. By the beginning of
the final period, eight of the 24 were more or less permanently sidelined, gazing distantly at the lights, which resembled
candles mounted on tin cans. Every other play in the final period found two or three Condors on the field,
waiting for attention or just a brief rest. Kalidova, not a pinpoint passer under the best of conditions, was in
big trouble. The Davidson defensive line was on him every play in the fourth quarter despite his 20-25 yard drops.
With 45 seconds to go, he snapped his passing string at 18 straight incompletions with a three-yard strike to Jarvis,
who was still a bit groggy. The sideways quarterback, Mark Gerdus, retired from the game after one of the Condors’
trick plays. After lining the entire team, except for himself and the center, up on the left sideline, Gerdus unaccountably
ran a quarterback keeper. Exit Gerdus.

Davidson Netters Lose Key Players
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

How does a tennis coach replace five of the top six players from last year? That is the question facing
Wildcat tennis coach Harry Fogleman as he tries to rebuild his young squad. The selection of this year’s team is
almost complete, with nine spots already filled and one more to be chosen next week. Juniors David Weaver and Gray
Smith, senior Frank Dana, and sophomores Bill Allen and Gary Bressler return from last season’s Southern Conference championship squad. Newcomers
to the team are sophomores Scoot Dimon, Jim Dorsett, and Bill DuPont, while Rick Quinby is the lone freshman netter.
Fogleman’s rebuilding job was necessitated by the graduation of Jim Cantrell and Jeff Chetwood, the transfers of Bob Koury and
Jeff Dumansky, and the sojourn of Hi Lankenau to Hollins College on the exchange program. Koury, who captured the number
one singles crown in the conference last year, is at Wake Forest University while Dumansky, the third court champion, is
presumably at the University of Delaware. Fogleman termed the exodus a “staggering loss” and expressed concern over finding the right
combinations for doubles teams. Weaver and Allen played as a doubles pair last year, but Fogleman did not know whether
that would be the case this season. “I plan to work really hard with the boys between now and Thanksgiving
break and try to get the doubles teams set,” he explained. Fogleman is hopeful that Lankenau will return from Hollins
in the spring, which would definitely help the situation. Lamenting the fact that his tennis budget had been cut, Fogleman
pointed out that the trip to Florida during spring break had been canceled and that the team would play only
22 matches instead of the usual 28 or 30. It appears that Weaver and Allen will have to use their
competitive experience to help the untested players develop before the spring.
