Page Two January 15, 1971

This picture represents an artist’s conception of the proposed renovation of the Carolina Inn for the Honors College. Architect Jackson Van Fleet estimated the cost to run well over $8,000,000. The covered wagon and the old-fashioned people represent the architect’s understanding continually emanating from the group of sages. Much controversy has surrounded the acquisition of this building by the college since the Honors College is a selective organization. (Staff Photo by Matthew Brady)

Cornell Ponders Money Schemes

C. David Cornell could have been a banker. He could have been a Wall Street broker. He could have been a Madison Avenue advertising executive. But he is none of these rich people. Instead, Cornell is the man on the spot at Davidson as he takes over as the vice president in charge of money.

Cornell has some very definite ideas about the ways in which funds can be raised at a school such as Davidson. “I think that you have to look at a unique school like Davidson and raise funds by using your inherent advantages,” said Cornell. “With all of our pre-meds, I think that we may be able to finagle some funds from a subsidization program. I recognize all of the arguments against a subsidized pre-med program, but to be competitive in the Southern Conference there isn’t any way around it.”

Cornell has indicated other possible solutions to the high costs of running Davidson. “I’m trying to talk the faculty into a 10% wage decrease and we're working on raising tuition to about $4500.” Cornell indicated that he planned on more active student participation in fundraising attempts. “I’m not going to ask them to panhandle or anything drastic like that,” Cornell noted, “but we can try some projects. I remember in high school, candy bar sales always raised real good money for the band. We will have car washes every Saturday morning behind the stadium and we can have a bake sale every month. Other ideas are bottle collections (those deposits add up real fast, you know) and newspaper drives. The people who put out Grit have offered to take the whole student body on as carriers.”

Hobbie To Divulge Administrative Intricacies

Those intrigued by the intricacies of politics and finances in higher education will have the chance this spring to learn how Davidson College is really operated behind the scenes. I am speaking of Peter Hobbie's forthcoming book on his year as Assistant to President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. And having just seen publisher's proofs for the expose, I can assure you that the reading will indeed be hot this spring.

By keeping a daily journal of events of his job and by adding his own comments and insights about those events, Hobbie has combined the inside knowledge of a John Gunther and the gripping narrative style of an Allen Drury to produce a work that could raise more than a few eyebrows in this sleepy college town.

Speaking recently with Hobbie, I asked if he could sum up the themes of the book in any way. “Frankly no,” Hobbie said, “because once privy to the inside information about Davidson, I learned that things were far more complex than I had ever imagined.”

Staff

Chief Associate: PAUL ROWLAND
Associate Editors: DICK ANDERSON, RUSS MERRITT, JOE SMITH
Managing Editors: DAVID GRISSETT, DON PARMAN
Sports Editor: ERNIE SHIPE
Assistant Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD WILSON
Copy Editors: JEFF ALLENDER, STEVE CROSS
News Editor: SCOTT DAVIDSON
Photography Editors: JOHN DAVIDSON, BILL LYLE
Assistant Sports Editors: JOE EARLE, A.W. TURNER
Cartoonists: J.B. FAWCETT, ZACK MOBLEY, CULLUM ROGERS, DARYL WILLIAMS
Circulation Managers: BRUCE PUCKETT, HOWARD RAMAGLI
Photographers: DAVE DOTY, ROGER MANLEY, SAM RAMACHANDRAN, BOB STRAND
Contributors this week: John McLean, Ray Milland, Dwayne Hickman, St. Ambrose of Milan, Otis Allmond, Ann Landers, Steve Cross, Horace Greely, Earl W. (Buck) Lawrimore, Jerry Mathers as the Beaver, and a Cast of Five.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C.28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $7.00.

“I had suspected in my wildest imaginings. One thing should come clear, though,” he said, “and that is my role as the college staff liberal.” Here Hobbie paused to smile at some private recollection before continuing his thoughts. “Take the fraternity issue as one example,” he said. “No one ever really suspected that I returned to Davidson just to see that one issue to a satisfactory conclusion.”

According to Hobbie, the title of his forthcoming book will be “On the Inside Looking Out: Former Administration Foe Joins 'Em.” Asked about this unusual title, Hobbie said, “Oh, it’s just something I picked up thumbing through some old DAVIDSONIANS. Besides,” he said, “it reveals another of the major aspects of the book and that is my privileged role as an administrator continuing intimate knowledge of the students.” Here Hobbie again paused to chuckle over some private memory. He keeps little private in his book, however, and I asked him about his boldness in certain touchy instances.

“I’m not worried,” Hobbie assured me. “Even in chapter nine I do not think I will have any trouble getting the material past the publisher. What with the recent Supreme Court decisions on pornography, I feel that even that chapter has enough redeeming social value to stay within the law.”

I went on to ask Hobbie how he foresaw the potential for a book of this sort about Davidson. “Actually,” he said, “I had little choice in the matter. The publish or perish syndrome is so strong here at Davidson that I was worried about keeping my job if I did not come out with some significant work right away.”

Duke Goes Coed

Davidson College will have coeds sleeping in the dorms for the first time in the school’s history next year. Announcement that the coeds on next year's exchange program will be housed in Duke Dormitory came from the housing director Scottie Nicholls. “There just isn't enough housing available in the town of Davidson to handle all of the coeds, so this seemed to be the only thing possible,” said Nicholls. “Plans now call for a 50-50 arrangement in Duke, half men and half women. I don’t see any complications in such an arrangement.” Nicholls added that Duke residents would not have to move out of their rooms on big weekends.

The increase in the number of coeds is part of a new program initiated by Dean of Students Will Terry and Registrar Richard C. Burts, both noted avant-garde moralists. “I would expect Dean Terry to place a midnight curfew on the women in Duke, and I would hope that the same rules could be placed on the men,” said Burts. “It’s all in Terry's hands, my hands are tied.”

RHA President Cecil Burney said, “I think it’s great. As long as they don't break windows or throw firecrackers or get in water fights, I think that the coeds will get along very well with the men in Duke.” Nicholls denied that the showers in Duke would be serviced only by cold water.

Spencer Out (Continued From Page 1)

The Betas said they had no response, and nobody was home at the house. The Sigma Nus and the Pi Kapps waved goodbye to their random assignees while the Kappa Sigs beat theirs. Who knows what the response will be from the Pika house? Sigma Phi Epsilon had a little difficulty deciding what their response would be. They first decided they were in favor of the dismissal. They then decided they were opposed to it, and finally they reversed that decision in favor of their first one. ATO said it didn't matter who was president, they are in favor of any social system. It is rumored that the Independents plan to move off campus.