Woodmansee Deals With ‘Whole Person’
By GRAY WILSON Managing Editor

“My job,” says College Chaplain Scott Woodmansee, “is to work with and not to preach at students who need help.”
After five years at Davidson, Woodmansee defines his role as chaplain in this manner. He sits in his office in
coat and tie (a thin tie), props his arms on the chair, and beams with a cherubic face, large dark
brown eyes, and the smile of a chipmunk. “My work is with people who are in a very specific situation
in higher education. I don’t restrict myself to the religious aspect, but to the whole person, whoever he may be.
And you have to be flexible in this campus position because student attitudes change quickly.”

Woodmansee, 34, kids about the bald spot on the back of his head which is slowly becoming a reality. A
Davidson graduate, he completed his ministerial training at Union Theological Seminary in 1962. He then took charge of a Presbyterian
church in Memphis, Tenn. until he was hired at Davidson in 1967.

“I think it worried me more when I came here that I could not get to know everyone. Also, there
was no job description; I had to set up my own program in addition to adjusting to the obstacles students
face when they first get here.”

Woodmansee views his job in four different areas: 1) counseling, 2) the YMCA, which he directs, 3) worship services, and
4) discussion or groups concerned with ethical questions facing the student.

With respect to counseling, Woodmansee points up the large number of people on campus involved in counseling, including students, and
his own approach to student guidance. “I never had any specific training in campus ministerial work per se, but a
lot of the pastoral counseling you learn at the seminary is applicable. I try to keep up with continuing education,
particularly in theology and psychology.” Woodmansee conducts sessions on a casual basis, rarely by appointment. But with two clinical psychologists
and other counseling services in other areas (such as vocational), what can a chaplain offer to students that is different?

“Much of the methodology in pastoral and clinical counseling is the same, a non-directive approach. But in my counseling I
try to look at the whole person within the context that God cares about us and can in fact change
us for the better. The humanistic psychologist seeks answers within the person himself, but there is a source of power
beyond us, I believe, which should be considered, whether you are talking about a girlfriend, parents, inner tensions, or a
choice of career.”

Woodmansee utilizes the YMCA as much as possible as his main formal connection with the students and community. “Whenever I
want to program something, I go to the YMCA cabinet.” The YMCA is helpful in scheduling meetings and discussion groups
of all kinds as well as promoting service projects over the entire community. Woodmansee remarked that he is encouraged by
the fact that this past summer there were twice as many people involved in service jobs as ever before. He
says he is interested in making a “bridge between church on campus and the churches in the community.” In addition
to his regular duties, he now preaches at a different church each Sunday somewhere within a 100-mile radius.

The most recent worship services with which Woodmansee has been working are the communion meetings during the early part of
the week. He explained that these are liturgical in structure, and are thus more formal than other meetings. “I think
that when chapel was required along with more hours in religion courses, it stifled religious feeling in a sense. But
now, without these strictures, people feel freer to express their religious faith or quest for one through formal and informal
programs.”

Woodmansee sees Davidson as a place in which students can express themselves as Christians in a variety of avenues. The
so-called “Jesus freaks” represent just one of these avenues, he said. The most demanding and controversial area, however, in which
he...Works is that of programs outside of the normal realm of the minister of yesteryear. Woodmansee is involved with speakers
on campus, luncheons for students and faculty to get to know one another, hall discussion groups, encounter groups, Vista, the
Peace Corps, summer jobs, and politically oriented groups such as the Peace Coalition. He justifies his position this way: “I
am willing to join groups on different issues according to my own conscience and convictions, although I am not formally
associated with any of them. I believe that a Christian cannot compartmentalize his religion separate from his politics. A Christian
must take a part in politics to fight such evils as war, poverty, pollution, and racism.”

Woodmansee commented that he is aware that there is labeling among the students because of his affiliation with partisan groups,
but said, “It is impossible to reach 1,000 students at Davidson. I don’t want to just run around slapping everyone
on the back. I’m not out to win a popularity contest. I’m here to help and want to get directly
involved.” Yet some students who would otherwise seek counseling from the chaplain are turned off by his involvement, and they
would rather have someone to look to who remained aloof of such issues.

Other students feel that Woodmansee’s realm centers around the College Union, and that his rapport with Patterson Court is poor
and at best vague. Some view him as a counselor for the socially castrated independent who has no place to
go. One student complained that Woodmansee failed to participate as actively in the local presbytery, thus keeping events sponsored by
the Campus Christian Life committee of the Presbyterian Church from ever reaching the students. So it isn’t all roses, not
even with the college chaplain, but somewhere among the web of students, administration, faculty, townspeople, and God, Scott Woodmansee can
be found spinning threads to join them all together.

By BILL GIDUZ
Staff Writer

Buried among the main organizations in which Davidson holds membership, there is one which affects most students far more than
they realize, the Piedmont University Center. With its headquarters in Winston-Salem, the Center is a cooperative effort between twenty mostly
small colleges spread across the state from Mars Hill to Laurinburg.

It could be said that the Center serves as a collecting and distributing agency for the schools who are affiliated
with it. Their services include a film library, summer and graduate study grants, and an academic lecture program. Support for
the Center comes from private foundations and membership fees from the schools in it.

Last year’s extended studies project, (to be repeated this year) involving the film series “Civilization” was a direct result of
the Center, from whom Davidson borrowed the film. All of Davidson’s Piedmont lecturers are supplied by the Center also. Davidson’s
representative to the lecture, or visiting scholar, program is Dr. J. B. Stroud. He explained that the lecturers are picked
in a polling and voting process by the colleges making up the Center, and then the Center arranges for the
speakers to make a three-day tour of five or six of the schools.

Most of the Piedmont lecturers are not well known outside of their field, but are experts in the field in
which they are involved. Davidson has ten Piedmont lecturers this year, that number having grown considerably in the past few
years.

(Staff photo by Erwin)
A CHAT WITH THE CHAPLAIN
Woodmansee prefers informal counseling.

Piedmont Center Provides Films, Grants, Lecturers

by Farah and Hicks
9.00 Knit Shirts
6.00 to 9.00

New Shipments—
Corduroy Jeans

And beginning Thurs., Nov. 4th
SALE
Men’s Fall SUITS, SPORTCOATS and SLACKS
Fine worsteds and worsted blends from our regular stocks of famous brands —
Seniors and Faculty: Please take note.

OPEN FRIDAY NIGHTS
John Mack & Son
Mooresville
