Page Ten April 9, 1971 _ The Davidsonian

Up n’ Coming

Friday, April 9
10 a.m. Good Friday
8:03 p.m. Movie: “Lady In Cement” Morrison Room

Saturday, April 10
Communion Service Morrison Room
8:03 p.m. Movie: “Lady In Cement” Morrison Room

Sunday, April 11
6 a.m. Sunrise Service Practice Football Field

Monday, April 12
12 p.m. Lunch Film Morrison Room
8 p.m. Civilization Films Love Auditorium
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital: W. H. Welsh Davidson College Church

Tuesday, April 13
7 p.m. Pre-Law Extended Studies Green Room
Speaker: S. Ferguson “Civil Rights”

Wednesday, April 14
8 p.m. Fine Film: “The Gold Rush” Love Auditorium
9:30 p.m. Discussion: “The Gold Rush” Green Room

Thursday, April 15
9:30 a.m. ROTC Speaker: Hans Morgenthau “An Examination of The Domino Theory”
7:30 p.m. Drama Workshop: “Out At Sea” Morrison Room
8 p.m. Speaker: Sidney Cohen: “The Drug Dilemma” Morrison Room

Friday, April 16
10 a.m. ROTC Speaker: Hans Morgenthau “Asia After Vietnam: An Examination of The Domino Theory”
8 p.m. Drama Workshop: “Charlie” Hodson Hall

Student Newspaper Loses Official Campus Backing
By WINDY MARCH
Staff Writer

“Accidental Judgements, Casual Slaughters,” a one-act play written and directed by junior Lee Fowlkes, was presented Wednesday night by the
drama department. Fowlkes has had experience in drama. He has, for example, taught a drama workshop for high school students.
A previous play of his was produced while he was in high school. “Accidental Judgements,” he said, was written last
year and re-written this year as part of an independent tutorial course in play-writing. The play is a tragedy, with
three characters, set in a men’s boarding school. Two students, close friends, played by George Graff and Robert Banta. Dave
Wells did an excellent job as Mr. Hoyt, the headmaster. “Accidental Judgements” suffers somewhat from an

Intercollegiate Press

The University of Washington “Daily” will remain on the campus with a restructured publication board and a change in the
channel for financial assistance. The decision came as a climax to an unusual episode in university history during which criticism
of the student newspaper last spring rose to unprecedented proportions. The controversy led to a recommendation by a special faculty-staff
committee last June that the publication be officially separated from university affiliation as of January 1, unless modifications of the
student newspaper's operations were made. This report, made by a committee headed by Vice President Robert G. Waldo, served as
a basis for discussion of solutions for the “Daily” problems. In making the announcement, President Charles E. Odegaard said he
based his present decision on a thorough consideration of opinions he has received during the past six months from students,
faculty, and staff. Odegaard said that in these responses there appears a broad consensus on two recurrent themes: the desire
to keep the “Daily” on the campus as a university-aided publication and the desire to free the “Daily” from the
dominant influence of any one group or groups of individuals. “Experience of the past year has indicated that changes were
needed,” Dr. Odegaard commented, “but I still incline to the belief that we should not take drastic steps before making
yet another effort to keep a daily newspaper on campus for the university community.” Under the new administrative structure to
supervise and set policy for the “Daily” and Tyee Yearbook, the seven-member Board of ASUW Publications will be replaced by
a nine-member Board of Student Publications. The new board will continue the tradition of having a student majority. For the
first time, it also will include a professional off-campus journalist.

Strong (Continued from Page 3)

Soards has missed five of the last six meetings of the senate. The senate also heard in a resolution read
by Clodfelter that the Y.M.C.A. Executive Committee announced its opposition to the proposed site of the off-campus fraternities at the
Griffin Road Playground. “The proposed site would deprive Davidson of needed summer recreational facilities.”Another major change is that the compulsory
student fee subsidy for the "Daily" will be allocated directly to the new Board of Student Publications instead of to
the UW for re-allocation to the "Daily," as at present. Although the "Daily" is largely self-supporting through advertising, a fee
subsidy of $1 per quarter per student is allocated in lieu of subscriptions.

Defends ties and may become a nuisance because of the possibility of children gathering at the park, thereby worsening already
strained town-gown relations, the resolution read. In other action, rising Senator Robert Dawson announced that the Educational Affairs Committee has
agreed to allow the library to remain open until one or two a.m. Dawson stated that he had spoken to
Assistant Librarian Leland Parks, who said that the new policy would go into effect as soon as provision had been
made for a janitor to work for one or two extra hours. All-night study rooms have finally been approved by
the administration, rising Sophomore Class President Bill Ralston added. "All they have to do is to tell Cop Linker," Ralston
declared.

Bob Edmunds, rising junior senator, announced that the Educational Policy Committee decided that spring examinations will be held on Saturday,
May 29, and Monday through Wednesday, May 31 through June 2.

The overabundance of scene changes might be because Fowlkes is attempting to portray in one act a long story which
depends for its success on the full development of three characters. Because of this, development of character and action tend
to be abrupt, though nothing essential to characterization is left out. The sound system was effectively used to convey the
impression of a busy school, including the voices of Madlen Marinaro and Bryan Adrian. This play was part of an
extensive drama workshop program sponsored by the drama department this quarter, including several plays produced and directed by students. Next
week’s productions will be two one-act plays by a young Polish playwright, who, according to Dr. Rupert Barber of the
drama department, is becoming internationally known. The two plays will be in the Morrison Room Thursday night. "Charlie," directed by
George Draughon, will star Bill Rolland, Jeff Loughridge, and Gil Terriberry. "Out at Sea," directed by Peter Lutken, will star
Bill Green, Cullum Rogers, and Lutken.

Besides the drama department’s major spring production of "Charlie’s Aunt," there will be three other student-produced plays this spring, as
part of an extensive drama workshop sponsored by the department. The workshop involves students in the Drama 41 class. The
students in this course, according to Barber, will have a chance to participate in all aspects of the productions of
the plays.

Five Freshmen To Transfer Out

Only five members of the present freshman class at Davidson will not return here next year, according to Dean of
Students Wilt H. Terry. "Five freshmen have talked to me about transferring," said Terry. "If there are any more, I
don't know about them." Terry went on to say that "two or three" freshmen have left already this year. This
figure is balanced by two freshmen who have come to Davidson since the start of the year—one at the beginning
of the winter term and one at the start of the spring term.

"There are all sorts of reasons for people leaving, such as being closer to home," said Terry, "and sometimes they
don't give a reason at all." Associate Director of Admissions Jon W. Regen said that there are about 25 applications
from students at other schools for transfer to Davidson next year, but that there is "no way to tell how
many will be accepted."

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Where-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

The Dogwood
MOTEL AND RESTAURANT
on Highway 21

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
