The Davidsanian
Page Three
June 1971

Highlights From Governance Text

INTRODUCTION

The Governance Committee was established by the Trustees to examine the structure of college governance, review the Faculty Constitution, Code of Responsibility, and related documents previously given tentative approval, and to make such recommendations as it deemed desirable. Though it has not yet completed this task, it is ready at this time to present its report and recommendations in the first area of concern, that of student conduct and judicial procedures.

The committee has reviewed the Code of Responsibility and has also heard testimony from faculty, staff, and students about the current state of student conduct. It is apparent that although the Code is sound as a statement of philosophy and standards, enforcement of sanctions against violators is honored more in the breach than in the observance. The Governance Committee has come to three conclusions on which its recommendations are based: 1) that the Code of Responsibility, with relatively minor modifications, represents a desirable and acceptable standard of expectations in the area of student conduct; 2) that authority and responsibility for measures to implement the Code should rest directly with the President; and 3) that new and clear-cut procedures based on a realistic appraisal of the will to and means of enforcement should be devised to make the Code and accompanying regulations more effective.

STANDARD OF EXPECTATIONS

Section 2 of the college charter provides that the Trustees "are authorized to make a constitution and laws for the government of said college, and the preservation of order and good morals therein." In accordance with this provision, it is the responsibility of the Trustees to establish standards of conduct and regulations for the use of facilities which further the educational purpose of the college, guarantee the health and safety of the community, protect its property, and preserve its good name among its several constituencies. They do so in the conviction that the actions of persons living in community, and especially a campus community, affect other persons in some way; that the student determines or affects the general reputation of all students and public attitudes toward them and the college; and that the credibility of a Davidson degree rests not only on the academic reputation of the college but also on the quality of the total life of the college community. Inevitably, individual choices affect the community to some degree.

The Trustees therefore affirm the college’s current expectations in the area of student conduct.

Terry (Continued from Page 1)

Harris has no further appeal. In an interview, this was the hypothetical situation which Terry used to illustrate the working of the new judiciary system. In another situation, Terry explained how the case is disposed of if the student decides he doesn’t want the dean to handle the case.

Fred Stone, a hall counselor on Third Cannon, complains to Terry that Phil Black has been smoking marijuana on the hall. Terry does some investigation and finds there are other witnesses to Black’s actions. Feeling that action is warranted, Terry notifies Black of the administrative conference. He tells Black that anything he says may be used against him in disciplinary proceedings. “I am prepared to give you a maximum sanction of definite suspension,” Terry says.

Believing that he can get a lighter sentence from the Hearing Committee, Black tells the dean he wants to go to the student court. The dean then terminates the conference and notifies the student solicitor of the charge. Upon receipt of the referred charge, the solicitor notifies the secretary of the Hearing Committee who will set the date for the hearing. Black is asked whether he desires an open hearing or a closed one. He may also be advised by an attorney, but the latter may not directly participate in the judicial proceedings.

At the trial, the student solicitor reads the charge. The chairman of the Hearing Committee then asks Black whether he admits to the charge or not. Black decides not to admit the charge. The committee then hears the evidence in support of the charge presented under the direction of the solicitor. Black and his defense advisor present their evidence. The solicitor responds with rebuttal evidence, after which rebuttal evidence is given by Black and his defense advisor. Closing arguments are then made by Black followed by the solicitor.

In executive session, the Hearing Committee then determines whether a violation as charged has occurred and what sanction, if any, to impose. Since Black has been caught several times smoking marijuana, the committee decides to impose the sanction of definite suspension. From here, Black may appeal to the Review Board if he so desires.

LONG DAY’S JOURNEY INTO NIGHT

Trustees make their way to the 10 a.m. meeting. The substantive portion of the Code of Responsibility (Preamble, Articles I, II, III)1V, and V) as amended.

RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTHORITY

The Trustees recognize that there are two separate areas involved in the mandate to the Trustees of Section 2 of the Charter. The first has to do with the use of college facilities. In this area, regulations having to do with the health, safety, and welfare of the community and with the protection of property should be promulgated as administrative matters. The other area has to do with the larger dimensions of student conduct which are more personal. In both areas, provisions should be made for consultation and participation by faculty, staff, and students, and for specific judicial mechanisms and procedures.

The Trustees specifically delegate to the President the authority and responsibility for supervision and direction in both areas and direct him to devise the necessary regulations, mechanisms, and procedures to achieve the objectives indicated herein.

SOURCE OF RULES GOVERNING STUDENT CONDUCT

Regulations pertaining to the health, welfare, and security of the community and to the protection of property in respect of the use by students of physical facilities of the College shall be promulgated solely by the President. Such regulations shall be known as "College Regulations." They shall be effective from the date they are published in an official "Registry of College Regulations" which shall be maintained in current and readily accessible form in the office of the Dean of Students.

Regulations governing traffic control, parking, and use of general facilities and grounds should apply equally to all members of the community. The penalty for violation will normally be a monetary fine, restitution in the case of damage, or both. In the case of willful or repeated refusal by an individual to conform to the regulations or to pay penalties assessed, the following procedure will be followed:
1) In the case of a faculty or staff member, the matter will be referred to the President.
2) In the case of a student, the matter will be referred to the Dean of Students for action under the judicial procedures outlined below.

Each residence hall shall have a chief counselor with assistants, if needed, who will be responsible for seeing that regulations are observed. In case of violations, he will first attempt to handle the matter by counseling with the individual or individuals concerned. If this proves ineffective, he will refer the matter to the Dean of Students for action in accordance with the judicial procedures approved by the Trustees.

SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS

The range of permissible sanctions for disciplinary action, whether imposed by administrative action or by hearing committee action, includes and is limited to the following:
1. Warning: Notice, oral or in writing, that continuation or repetition of conduct in violation may be cause for more severe disciplinary sanctions.
2. Censure: A written reprimand, which may include a warning of more severe disciplinary sanction in the event of determination of a subsequent violation within a stated period of time.
3. Fine: A fine of not more than $25 per violation of duly promulgated college regulations.
4. Probation: Exclusion from participation in privileged or extra-curricular college activities for a period not exceeding one year.
5. Restitution: Reimbursement for defacement, damage to, or misappropriation of property, whether that of the College or of any member of the college community or of any guest on the campus.
6. Suspension for a definite time: Exclusion from classes and other privileges or activities with forfeiture of academic credit, as set forth in the notice of suspension, for a definite time.
7. Indefinite suspension: Termination of student status, subject only to formal readmission, with no right to petition for readmission before the expiration of one calendar year from the date of suspension.

EXTRAORDINARY DISCIPLINARY POWERS OF PRESIDENT

The President may declare a state of emergency in the event of disruption on the campus of an order which threatens the minimal internal security of the campus or the continuation of its normal educational processes. In doing so, he may initially suspend these procedures in whole or in part for a period of three days in his sole discretion. Thereafter, he may extend the suspension for additional periods not exceeding five (5) days after consultation with the Student Conduct Council. The initial declaration and any continuations shall be publicized by all appropriate means.

Trustees Redefine (Continued from Page 1)

He has previously counseled with the student charged. In such case, the student solicitor will handle the case. To be sure that regulations are observed, the trustees said that each residence hall will have a chief counselor who will be responsible for all activities in the dorms. He may either handle violations by counseling or refer the matter to the Dean of Students. The trustees also answered the question of the use of definite and indefinite suspension. Safeguarding against such extreme sanctions, the courts must have a unanimous concurrence of sitting members to impose either of these sanctions.