The Davidsonian

Artful Teaching Requires Inspiration

October 29, 1971

Page Five

HOWARD RAMAGLI

The idea of teaching as a profession makes me ill. For me, professionalism connotes an objective detachment from involvement in
one’s environment. Too often this is the case here at Davidson. In the September issue of the alumni newsletter, I
found an exciting statement on “The Art of Teaching” by Anthony S. Abbott, associate professor of English here at Davidson.
The text of the article follows. But after reading this, I am still haunted by the question, how many of
our teachers are really artists?

The first and primary function of the teacher is to inspire. Note that I did not say, “impart knowledge.” It
is not, nor has it ever been, the primary function of the teacher to impart knowledge: books and computers can
do that kind of thing a great deal more accurately and a great deal more quickly. Not many people, I
think, will quarrel with this view. But what has been happening in our colleges and universities is that teachers still
spend most of their time imparting knowledge to students who dutifully write down the information in notebooks and regurgitate it
badly on examinations.

Maybe inspire is too big a word, but I hope not. The sociologists would prefer “motivate.” But I mean more
than that. To motivate a student is to give him some incentive to do the job before him. But to
inspire is to excite, to give the student some feeling that he is entering a world that is alive, that
has beauty, that has form and order. The teacher who inspires is one who imparts to the student his own
sense of pleasure in doing what he is doing.

A good English teacher is one who loves words used beautifully and who transmits to the student something of his
own excitement so that the student in turn will try to use words more beautifully. To inspire means to awaken
in the student the sense that he has a mind, a mind that can grow and develop, a mind whose
use can be exciting and creative.

If the art of teaching, then, is essentially the ability to inspire, the next question is—how shall the teacher go
about it? The answer is—by being an interesting person. Most good teachers have style, a manner of presentation or a
quality of personality that makes them interesting as people. We frequently forget that fact when we talk about teaching.

The impact of personality upon material is what makes education take place. One cannot say that one method is inherently
superior to another; one teaches as one can, just as one writes as one can. My own view has been
that the most important thing a teacher can do is to demonstrate to his students that he loves his subject,
that his profession gives his own life meaning and brings him joy.

There are other ways to inspire. One, which I find unsuited to my own personality, succeeds quite well with many
students. It might be called a variation on the Socratic method in which the teacher encourages student opinions and comments
but constantly subjects these comments to criticism until the student’s mind has been honed to a fine edge by the
process (or until he has been driven to despair).

Every method has its dangers. Too emotional an approach may embarrass most Anglo-Saxon males who fear any show of feelings;
too intellectual an approach will prevent the student from participating in a learning experience with his total being. Some teachers
are very conscious of technique; some are not. Many have such powerful personalities that they simply dramatize themselves for fifty
minutes. This method too has its dangers, for often when the show is over we have found that we have
learned a good deal about the man and next to nothing about the subject. Still, anything is better than boredom,
and to be introduced to a lively personality is a part of a liberal education.

Most discussions of teaching methods at the college level center around the relative value of the three time-honored methods of
presenting a course: 1) lecture, 2) discussion, and 3) tutorial (here taken to mean a program of independent study in
which the student meets with the professor occasionally to make reports and discuss material). Students and teachers alike will profit
most from participation in all three methods. Students become quickly bored by routine: when they know that the professor will
talk for fifty minutes each day, they will relax their attention.

On the other hand, most students, when they know that a course will be only discussion, feel cheated. After all,
they have not paid to listen to their friends talk about matters which are but vaguely relevant to the course.
Classes which combine intelligent and lively lecturing with some good Socratic dialogue seem to prove most successful. Many instructors add
a kind of tutorial element to a course by giving the...Student a period of independent study after which he will
have to produce a paper or an oral report. The successful college teacher today must be flexible, open to suggestion,

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Brown Blasted For Article

To The Editor:

In last week’s DAVIDSONIAN, Doug Brown wrote an article on the future of the Residence Hall Association. It is sad
the story was bungled because the topic possessed much potential. I want to publicly apologize to Bill Lear (Senior Class
President) for Doug Brown’s inept journalism. I am sorry Brown chose to misquote me with regard to election procedure. The
truth is that I sympathize with Lear for having to run the election because it is a thankless task which
requires much time. Bill Lear has done an excellent job.

It troubles me that Brown interviewed me for only five minutes. As RHA President, I am aware of the inherent
structural weaknesses of the Residence Hall Association. In fact, I still have questions about the usefulness of the RHA myself.
The problem is that if you abolish the Residence Hall Association you give total power over the dorms to the
Director of Student Housing and the Dean of Students. I do not believe this is in the student's best interest.
As I told Doug Brown in our interview, this term the RHA will be trying to clarify our role in
the power structure of Davidson and deciding what future, if any, the organization might have.

Bill Alexander ‘73
Vice President, S.G.A. (President, R.H.A.)
Davidson College

To The Editor:

An article in last week's issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, “Does the RHC Have a Future?” by Doug Brown, was the
poorest piece of journalism I've seen in a long time. Doug Brown, a sophomore class senator and reporter for THE
DAVIDSONIAN, committed the following crimes against good journalism and ethical conduct:

(1) Brown deliberately misquoted a primary source, the President of RHA. Alexander did not say “RHC elections are being held
at this late date because Bill Lear wanted to avoid doing the work he was supposed to do.” What Alexander
really said (I know because I was there when he said it) was “It’s too bad the elections couldn’t have
been sooner, however it couldn’t be helped.” Alexander said he sympathized with Lear having to run elections because it entails
a tremendous amount of work. He further said that he will ask Brown to issue a public apology for the
smear on Lear.

(2) Brown’s editing was atrocious. Stating that Alexander’s primary accomplishment as RHA President was “effectively fighting the use of firecrackers
in the dorms” was an obvious distortion. Stating that Alexander was in favor of “knocking out walls in old dorms”
was a lie.

(3) Brown’s article lacked constructive proposals. Brown willing to try new methods, to adapt himself to different class sizes. Behind
all these remarks is the belief that the art of teaching is the art of being concerned, concerned over planning
and organization, concerned about helping the student grow, concerned about one’s own intellectual development as a person during one’s teaching
career. The great trap that lies in wait for the college professor is laziness. The profession is really (at most
colleges) too easy. One can, if he teaches the same courses year after year, slip into the rut of using
the same material again and again. One can, if he knows that he is a good lecturer, entertain the students
and avoid discussing new and controversial issues. The good teacher at 30 may be intellectually or emotionally burned out at
50. Just as it is hard for an actor in a long run to get himself up psychologically for a
performance day after day, month after month, year after year—so is it more difficult for the teacher as he gets
older to remain mentally alert, open to new ideas, concerned to make each day count. The art of teaching, really
teaching, is the art of staying alive.

(4) Brown’s article was a masterpiece of bad journalism. It lacked content, organization, and coherence. It was void of forethought
and barren of analysis. One would be charitable to call Brown’s style mediocre.

(5) Brown’s so-called report on the RHA’s future was in reality a subjective slam on the RHA, with intermittent attempts
at discrediting those associated with that organization. I strongly suggest that Rich Wilson (in charge of front page coverage) confine
Brown’s yellow journalism to the editorial page if not the garbage heap. THE DAVIDSONIAN has in the past won several
awards for journalistic excellence. I sincerely hope that those judging this year's DAVIDSONIAN overlook Brown’s front-page misprint.

Mark Deininger ‘73
Davidson College
