Page Six. February 26, 1971. (Staff photo by Doty)

THE LAND OF THE GIANTS

Miles Ward works for his first takedown in the heavyweight division.

Grapplers Down UNC, Catawba

By PETER MICHAEL
Sports Writer

Finishing with two crushing victories, Davidson's wrestling team posted its finest season record since 1963. The grapplers finished 6-2, by defeating UNC 30-6 and Catawba by 33-5.

The margin of victory over UNC came as somewhat a surprise to Coach Charles Parker. “We thought that we could win, but the final score was surprising,” he said. “We won a few early matches that they thought they would win, and they just seemed to give up.”

The meet was begun by the heavyweights due to a previous commitment by the UNC wrestler. Frank Shinn scored the upset 11-10 victory that began the rout. Rick Stansbury had his best match of the year, according to Parker, scoring a pin in the 118-pound class. Three victories by decision by Rob Benton, Rusty Winchester, and John Scandling put the score at 17-0. Later wins by Jack Jacobs, Ronnie Williams, and Frank Rader accounted for the remaining points.

Davidson simply outclassed Catawba, except in the heavyweight class, where inexperienced Miles Ward made his premiere appearance. Rusty Winchester ran his record to 4-0, finishing undefeated in the regular season. Ronnie Williams also finished undefeated in the 167-pound class.

Parker expects next season's squad to be even stronger than this year’s, since the freshmen who wrestled have gained a year of experience. The team will lose only Frank Rader, Jack Jacobs, and Alan Kirkpatrick by graduation.

Netters Begin Practice, To Tackle Top Teams

By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

The time is right for tennis even if the weather isn't. Davidson's tennis team has already begun practice despite the chilly air in preparation for their first match which is only 17 days away. The netters are behind in their practice schedule due to the bad weather, but Coach Harry Fogleman is optimistic.

Sophomore Robert Koury will play in the number one spot this year. David Weaver and Jeff Dumansky, also sophomores, will play numbers two and three. Rounding out the top five are senior Jim Cantrell and freshman Bill Allen. Dumansky and Koury will team up for the top doubles combination. Cantrell and Weaver will play in the number two position.

Fogleman was pleased that some of the top tennis teams in the nation will play here at Davidson. He noted home matches with Harvard, Navy, Indiana, and Miami of Ohio among others. On the road, the netters will meet Jacksonville and Rollins along with several other tough opponents. Fogleman also pointed out that the Southern Conference Tournament will be held here for the second consecutive year.

A new part of the tennis program will be added this season. An “A squad” will play three matches, and “B squad” members will also participate in about five varsity matches, taking every opportunity to gain experience.

By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The Delts belted the SPEs 58-44 while East II nudged Cannon II 68-64 last Thursday to move into the semi-finals of the IMAC basketball tournament. The Sigs face the Indies and the Pikas take on East I in the other quarterfinal matches, which were delayed because of varsity games early in the week.

The Delts, now 9-2, will meet the Sig-Indie winner after their win over the SPEs, who finished 7-4. Hamp Whittington paced a balanced attack for the winners with 13 points. Larry Graham poured in 25 points to spark East II's upset of Cannon II. John Simms and John Webel tallied 17 and 10, respectively, in support of Graham, as the winners upped their mark to 6-5. They advance to meet the Pika-East I winner.I victor. The Indies and Betas earned the final two spots in the ten-team upper bracket by winning twice in the lower bracket. The Indies, now 9-4, downed Cannon I behind Jim Brice’s 15 points, and Mike O'Malley and Jim Trevathan with 10 apiece. Wednesday, the Indies eliminated the SAEs 56-44 as John McCammon hit for 13 points while John Porter and Brice each had 10. Last Thursday, the Indies demolished the Gamms 60-31, breaking open a tight game with a 20-8 splurge in the third quarter. Brice dropped in 18 points, O'Malley netted 16, and Mark Baker added 14 to pace the win. Bruce Batten was high for the losers with 12.

The Betas whipped the Machis and Watts-Belk to grab the other slot. Kevin Harkey, Greg Cameron, and Randy Bly tallied 22, 18, and 15 points, respectively, to lead a 69-49 romp over W-B, led by Bill Simms with 17. East I then eliminated the Betas 78-60 as Loren Clay bombed in 33 points and Tommy McKenzie bucketed 21 more. They more than offset the Betas’ 1-2 punch of Harkey and Bly, who combined for 44 points.

Delts, East II Make Semis
East I carried a 7-4 mark into its clash with the Pikas (10-0). The Sig-Indie battle will be a rematch of their hard-fought regular season battle a week ago, won by the Sigs 58-42.

Wildkittens Win Two Runaways
By STEVE BENNETT
Sports Writer

The Wildkittens lost two close games and won two runaways over the last two weeks. Following their 109-76 romp over the Biddies of South Carolina, the ‘Kittens met the Baby Blue Devils of ACC foe Duke in a February 16 contest in Greensboro. Davidson lost the closely contested match 73-77. The game, which was tied at 43 at the half, saw four ‘Kittens in double figures. High man for the team was John Falconi with 22; followed by T. J. Pecorak, 20; Mike Sorrentino, 13; Steve Gadaire, 12; and Paul Wagner, 5.

The ‘Kittens lost to conference foe Furman 111-116, in a double-overtime thriller in Johnston Gym. That February 20 game was the second meeting of the two clubs. The ‘Kittens lost to Furman, 104-93, in their first match January 5 in Greenville, S.C. The score stood tied at 59 at the half and at 95 when the regulation buzzer sounded. When the first overtime period ended, the teams were still deadlocked. The ‘Kittens lost the game in the final extra period after personal foul disqualifications by starters Falconi, Wagner, and Pecorak.

In their only meeting of the season, February 22, the ‘Kittens whipped the Bullpups of SC foe, The Citadel. The final score stood at 120-77. Six of the ‘Kittens saw double figures, and once again John Falconi was high man for the Davidson team with 24.

In their final Southern Conference meet, the ‘Kittens avenged an earlier 82-76 loss to the Junior Keydets of V.M.I. The ‘Kittens seemed to have had little trouble as they defeated the VMI squad 97-77. Led by Paul Wagner with 27 points, the ‘Kittens shot 53.1 percent from the floor and 93.6 percent from the foul line (100 percent during the second half).

The Wildkittens will end their 70-71 season tomorrow when they face Laurinburg Institute in the Charlotte Coliseum.

Cornelius 892-8468 10-9 P.M.
BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET
“It’s Incomparable”
Sandwiches — Pizza
Sundaes
50 FLAVOR SHAKES

2 FOR 1 SALE
Buy 1 Pair Of Slacks Or Sweater At Regular PRICE. And Get Another Pair at The Same Price FREE

1 Table Of Shirts
Values To $8.00
NOW $3 each

ALL WINTER SPORT COATS AND SUITS
1/2 PRICE

THE RED HANGER
Davidson, N.C.