Page Eight April 23, 1971 The Davidsonian

Six Marks Set In Relays
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Six records were broken in the Davidson track and field relays held last Saturday. Most of the records set were in field events, with the only new track marks set in the two-mile relay and the distance medley. Pembroke College easily won the relays with 69½ overall points, 21½ above the second-place team, Western Carolina. Davidson polled seventh in the sixteen-team competition.

Cumberland College set the new two-mile record with a time of 7:58.2, and went on to place fourth in the relays. The second track record was set in the distance medley by Western Carolina with a time of 10:16.8.

‘Cats Lose Doubleheader, End Streak With Guilford
The Davidson baseballers dropped a doubleheader to Furman last Saturday, and then bounced back to beat Guilford College on Tuesday. In the first game against Furman, Wildcat hurler Rick Pipan gave up five runs, including two homers. Bill Barnhill led the Davidson offensive effort with two hits. The final score was 5-3.

In the second game, Furman pitcher John Jackson gave up no hits to the Wildcats, while the Paladins scored two runs for a 2-0 win. The no-hitter is the first such game that the Wildcats have lost under Coach Tom Stevens.

Tuesday, the ‘Cats beat Guilford College 6-2, with Pipan the winning pitcher. Pipan’s record is now six wins and one loss. Jack Willits and Harold Wilkerson each got two hits against Guilford. The win broke a four-game losing streak for the Wildcats and boosted their record to 12-10. Davidson is 5-3 in Southern Conference.

The Wildcats have thirteen more games left to play in the regular season. Tomorrow Davidson plays a doubleheader against Duke University here at Davidson. Next Tuesday the Wildcats play Belmont Abbey here, and two days later journey to Duke for a single game against the Blue Devils. May’s schedule includes only one non-conference game for the ‘Cats, at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, May 4. The first day in May will see the ‘Cats play two games at William and Mary. Other doubleheaders are at Davidson.

Davidson fared better in the field events than the track events with Steve Kirley, Ed Dobbs, Ray Swetenburg, and David Crumpler all placing in their events. Kirley set a new shot put record of 50'3" and placed third in the discus throw. In the other field events, Cranfield of Pembroke set a new pole vault record with a jump of 15'4". Toler of Pembroke set a new discus record with a 148'4½" throw and Gaines of Western Carolina set a new long jump mark with a jump of 23'6".

“We were very pleased with the relays,” Davidson track coach Heath Whittle commented. “Everything ran smoothly and all the times were very pleasing.”

Davidson Relays were plagued with innumerable problems in the running events, often dropping batons in the relays. There were no Davidson places registered in the track events.

Pembroke improved greatly from last year’s relays and Whittle says it is due to an expansion of its track program. Pembroke presently has thirteen freshmen on track and field scholarships. The first ten places were: 1. Pembroke, 69½; 2. Western Carolina, 48; 3. Western Georgia, 43; 4. Cumberland, 38; 5. High Point, 32; 6. Berry College, 22; 7. Davidson, 17; 8. Carson-Newman College, 16; 9. Appalachian State University, 11½; 10. Lenoir-Rhyne, 10.

Postma Receives Academic Honor
Davidson cager Duncan Postma has been named to the third team Academic All-American team. The Academic All-American team is an honor conferred on players based on both academic and court ability.

To qualify, a player must be one of the starting five for a team or an important sixth man, and maintain a grade point ratio of 3.0.and John Pecorak received honorable mentions for the team. Postma is a pre-medical major with a 3.7 average. He hit 10.1 points a game for the ‘Cats this year. The team was selected by the College Sports Information Directors of America. Postma missed a berth on the second team by only a few votes. East Carolina, The Citadel, Furman, and Davidson seemed to be Milligan College.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Wherrena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

UNC-C presents
JAM - UP
Two nights Open Air Concerts
At UNC-C Amphitheatre featuring

Fri., April 30
Chairmen of the Board
Ace Trucking Co.
Goose Creek Symphony and Friends
Moose
Dawn of Creation

MUSIC BEGINS AT 7:00 P.M. EACH NIGHT
Tickets: Fri. $4.00 Sat. $5.00
Both Nights $8.00
Sold At Door or Call 596-5970 Ext. 449

Sat., May 1
Chambers Brothers
Delaney & Bonnie

This is an advertisement paid for by E. P. Thornton, Murrells Inlet, S.C.

Editor's note: This is the continuation of the advertisement which Mr. Thornton ran on the last page of the April 16 issue.

My considered judgment tells me, now, that being invited by persons holding socialist viewpoints, and following a path parallel with that of the Chicago 7 and their bedfellows and podium pals, could not have worked out well for my “Cause.” It would be contrary to human nature for my erstwhile sponsors to support me with enthusiasm if, as a result, I might be successful even in a small way in adversely influencing the plan of Rennie Davis, and that of Dr. Patterson’s group of fifteen advertisers, to “bring America to its knees.”

In such endeavors, unfortunately, many non-violent people have, like innocents following the Pied Piper of Hamlin, lent their active support, their mindless marches, and their clenched fist communist salutes.

There is considerably more to this episode, but a skeletal recital seems to me to be in good taste and timely in view of the growing arrogance of those who would join together in gang warfare against our President and his masterful handling of our disengagement from combat in Southeast Asia. My entire file on this subject will be copied and sent, if anybody is interested, in the care of some disinterested third party, for all to see.

So, not being a flamboyant criminal out on bond, not being an advocate of giving up American sovereignty in favor of becoming a Socialist Soviet State in a One World Government, it appears that I shall not be able to come before you in person, backed by sympathetic sponsors. You therefore have been denied what small contribution I might have made to the “balanced viewpoint” I was led to believe Davidson wanted.

May all of you, in America’s hours of trial, depend on God and not on Madalyn Murray O’Hair. May you depend on OUR CONSTITUTION and not on some being cooked up by the Norman Cousins-Rexford Tugwell axis. May you look for and follow better leaders than violent anti-American anarchists and their star-gazing disciples. May you have the courage to say to both your socialist teachers and your friends of socialist persuasion, “Show me ONE SOCIALIST GOVERNMENT on the face of the earth that has the personal freedom, the abundance, and the opportunity that are the essence of AMERICA. NAME JUST ONE; put up, or SHUT UP.”

But if some of you must rush over the precipice of history, like lemmings, then do so expecting the suicidal death that comes to lemmings. It will be your own choice if you prefer the Berlin Wall, the Iron and Bamboo curtains, and the death of every freedom that distinguishes YOUR AMERICA from Communism. Expect the death of the freedom that makes a man a human being in tune with his creator, rather than a robot two-legged animal—a creature owned and operated, body and mind, by THE STATE.

I may later discuss some specific issues in THE DAVIDSONIAN. We will see.