SPECIAL INFLATIONARY & RECESSION BARGAINS!

The Davidsonian
April 16, 1971
Page Five

Fiddle Festival Attracts Heterogeneous Crowd

A REVIEW By DAVID WELLS

For those neophyte country music fans who don't know, the Union Grove Old Time Fiddler's Convention is the big time.
At least that’s what they want you to think. Harper van Hoy and his brother Pierce have been promoting this
festival annually for the past 47 years. It seems they used to do it together, until a slight disagreement over
the purpose behind the whole thing split them up. (Pierce was more concerned about aesthetics, Harper about economics.) Now there
are two Old Time Fiddler's Conventions, both in Union Grove, N.C. Not knowing what to expect from either of them,
we chose to patronize the larger.

Scott Supports May Protest

To the Editor:

Throughout the next five weeks the world community will witness large peace demonstrations in America. Two have received the most
attention and publicity: the April 24th peace celebration sponsored by the National Peace Action Coalition (NPAC) and the May 1
observances held by the Peoples’ Peace Coalition. Both of these celebrations for peace are dedicated to compelling the United States
Government to get out of Indo-China and to reevaluate its priorities along lines of respect for life and living at
home and abroad.

There is considerable unity of purpose between both of these national committees, so much so that to claim that a
fundamental solidarity of goals exists would be a forcefully accurate statement. The May Day committee affirmed this unity last week
when it publicly endorsed the April 24 rallies, while reaffirming its intentions to carry out the May Day plans as
previously scheduled. As yet, the NPAC has not returned this endorsement but has done nothing to detract from it.

Despite this solidarity of purpose, a split within the national peace movement has come about and its implications must be
dealt with by all those concerned with the direction that the movement is taking. The break came about because one
faction saw non-violence as limited to legal jurisdictional government while the other, the Peoples’ Peace Committee, saw non-violence as covering
a wide range of protest methods from voting for the ‘out’ party to acts of civil disobedience, such as blocking
transportation arteries or entrances to government buildings.

On Tuesday of last week, some 25 students committed themselves to attending the April 24 celebration while only three made
firm commitments to attend the May Day activities. While this paltry interest in May Day may be construed as an
indication of unity within the Coalition itself, it actually means an alignment of members from the Davidson Coalition with national
factions which have no real hope or intention of reshaping present governmental policy.

If the Peoples’ Peace Treaty is what members from both peace coalitions contend that it is, a cry for peace
from the American people, then to limit its impact to a football stadium is to make a mockery of the
democratic plebiscite. Those who sign the Peace Treaty, thereby saying that the usual governmental channels have not functioned and should
therefore be circumvented by direct intervention from the citizenry, and then attend a rally sanctioned by the same unresponsive government
and protected by police employed by said government must surely have failed to understand one of their decisions. They are
either showing their distrust of the Treaty’s plebiscital acceptance or they are showing.

Jesus Freaks Promote God

By GRAY WILSON
Managing Editor

Does God have a long face? Not for over 60 Davidson students and a few faculty who witness, sing, and
praise the Lord every Monday night. These are Davidson’s “Jesus freaks,” a Christian prayer group dedicated to the proposition that
an emotional commitment to religion is a real and vital part of the world today.

What is a typical meeting like? After a few choruses of “Kumbaya” and “Amazing Grace” last Monday night around 10:30
in the Green Room, the floor was opened for comment. Janet Earnheart, 24, from Charlotte explained her recent conversion on
February 8 with dancing eyes. “I used to be on drugs, but now I'm full of God, man, I get
stoned on him all the time. God was really bugging me, and I knew I really needed him. He has.some
believe that a government which has refused consensus in the past will be sufficiently impressed by signs, songs, cookouts, and
marches.
Michael A. Scott ‘73
Davidson College

"Man, everybody's been so good to me, it’s just happening everywhere.” This testimony was met with cries for a song,
and “I Have the Joy, Joy, Joy” followed with hearty participation. The spotlight then fell on the Reverend William Sherwood,
mandolin-plucking 81-year-old bearded Episcopal minister from Charlotte who some of the students called Moses. “I'm younger today at 81 than
I was when I was 71. I would have died of boredom long ago without Jesus Christ. I was a
tired, retired minister, but now I’m having so much fun, I want to live a long time in the river
of God’s joy.”

George Goudy, active in campus life, then spoke on the nature of human knowledge as it relates to God. “We
mustn't let studying and thinking get all in the direction of intellect. All the knowledge of man falls into a
pattern under God. We can use the knowledge of man to go on to the strength and dynamic of God."
The group broke up after a few more songs.

The four-dollar gate fee should have alerted us to his “Scheiss-Kapitalistic motives,” but in we went, in spite of it
all. From all appearances, it was everything it was cracked up to be: the World Series of Bluegrass. People came
hundreds of miles to be on hand for the four-day marathon of pickin’ and singin’ and good ol’ down-home entertainment.
Booths and simple displays lined the Midway area, where artists and craftsmen peddled their handiwork to the passer-by. The whole
scene took on the confused incongruity of a county fair, rock festival. The one element which seemed to bring everyone
together was the music. It came from every direction, pervading the air with the harmonious strains of twangy country vocals
and the furious banjo and mandolin pickin’ of instrumentals, as the “Dixie Breakdown” or the “Foggy Mountain Breakdown” (after a
while, you begin to realize that all ‘Breakdowns’ consist of the same variation applied to different themes).

The central attraction, however, was the contest going on inside the big circus tent, which held approximately 20,000 people. All
told, 200 bands were competing for the first prize in the four-day event, which culminated on Saturday. Except for a
few top contenders, the emphasis was not mainly on the competition, but on the fun involved in playing the music
itself. The lively enjoyment felt by the musicians communicated itself in their songs. It was next to impossible to listen
and watch without clapping and stomping along with the beat. As captivating as Bluegrass music may be, after a while
it all begins to sound roughly the same. It's really a struggle for the unpracticed ear to differentiate between the
Foggy Mountain Boys and the Red River Ramblers. In addition to that, unless your seat happens to be up front,
it becomes impossible to see beyond the central aisle, which is choked with lost, stoned, or simply wandering people, none
of whom have the intelligence to sit down.

Consummately fatigued by the whole thing, yet visited by the feeling that one should be having a good time, one
turns to an old stand-by: people-watching. Every type of freak imaginable is represented, from long-hair, eyeball-trippin’ dopers to grungy, arrogant
motorcycle crazies. Add a few once and future fraternity men from Western Carolina University and a strong delegation of dirt
farmers and one has an idea what the crowd looks like. Frightening.

Harper van Hoy's Fiddle Festival combines the best and the worst of two worlds. On the one hand, the Bluegrass
music played both in the tent and at the campsites has to rate as some of the best, but the
atmosphere in which it is performed is nothing but authentic American carnival and tourist trap, 1971. Mebbie nex’ year I’ll
go down ‘n see what ol’ Pierce has got to offer.

Attendance has grown steadily since the beginning of the school year, and this meeting included several students and one of
the faculty from Salem College. (Staff Photo by Ralston)

Rev. William Sherwood addresses prayer group.
