Che Vol. LXI No. Eleven Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students DECEMBER 10, 1971

Trustee Approval Final Hurdle Left For Spencer-Bevan Coeducation Plan

By DON PARMAN
Editor-in-Chief

A plan to bring coeducation to the Davidson College campus for the fall of 1972 lacks only final trustee approval according to an announcement to be made Monday by President Samuel R. Spencer. Spencer’s announcement was released to THE DAVIDSONIAN yesterday. Spencer said, “This is a matter which ultimately and immediately affects the underclassmen at Davidson now and we wanted them to know about it first, it seems only fitting. The decision was made with them in mind.”

The coeducation proposal was drawn up by Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan and faculty member Brown Patterson. The two finished final preparation of the document over the Thanksgiving recess, faculty approval came at a secret meeting last Monday and the plan was tentatively approved by the Trustee Executive committee by phone late Tuesday. Final trustee approval will be required but neither Spencer nor Bevan foresaw any difficulties following the votes by the faculty and executive committee.

The plan calls for both a merger with Queens College and the admission of coeds in Davidson's entering class next fall. Director of Admission H. Edmunds White indicated that there should be little difficulty in finding the 110 coeds for the entering class called for by the report. “We have been anticipating such a decision for some time and we have made the contacts to make such a recruiting effort successful. We have lists of qualified applicants submitted to us from high school principals and counsellors which should produce the number of freshmen called for in the report.

“We anticipate that the decision will have a strong impact on our normal recruiting efforts as well. In the last few years we have lost a lot of top prospects who were put off by the idea of an all men’s school.”

YSA Faces FBI Investigation

The Federal Bureau of Investigation released word that the Davidson chapter of the Young Socialist Alliance has been under surveillance since its inception earlier this year. The organization was formed under the leadership of Steve Cross and John Braxton. The FBI's announcement came in the wake of charges by Cross that the agency was indeed checking on the organization through illegal wiretapping techniques. Cross and Braxton are to appear before a Federal Grand jury in Greenville, N. C., later this month.

Haldon P. Washermann, Charlotte chief of FBI operations, indicated that the agency had been following Cross’ activities as a matter of course. Cross was listed on the agency's file of revolutionary people. Washermann indicated that Davidson has a bad reputation with the federal agency. “As far as we're concerned that campus is the most potentially dangerous in the state of North Carolina and perhaps the entire southeast. They're all long hairs and radical intellectuals, the kind that have leftist tendencies even without all of that use of drugs that goes on out there.”

Washermann expressed concern over the establishment of the socialist organization. “I’m sure these kids mean well, they're just misguided. It’s people like them that the communists are always taking advantage of. J. Edgar Hoover has often warned of the danger from within which comes from these well-meaning dupes of the red menace.”

Neither Cross nor Braxton was available for comment on the FBI disclosures. Washermann indicated that the investigations had not yet uncovered any specific grounds for charges, but that the agency was acting in a preventive capacity. “We're just trying to avert difficulties like the Billy Graham-Richard Nixon affair. Unless these sorts of organizations are carefully controlled, there’s no telling when socialists and hippies are going to demand to sit in on affairs like that and spoil them for everyone involved.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

school.” In addition to the 110 coeds to be admitted as freshmen, the college will accept up to 45 coeds as transfer students with first preference being given to Queens students and coeds from women’s schools other than those in the Eight College Exchange program. Spencer indicated that the decision had been made not to accept transfers from the exchange program schools because of an understanding which the schools had made upon agreeing on the program that they would not attempt to lure students from other schools. “Although we are going coed ourselves we still feel an obligation to that commitment which we still hold as made in (See COED, Page 2)

Union Gets Beer?

The College Union will now probably be able to apply for a permit to sell beer on the Davidson campus. In a surprise move, College President Samuel R. Spencer announced his approval of the idea stating, “I think that the sale of beer on campus is a long overdue reform. It will be one of the most important innovations made on this campus since the hiring of more administrators last year,” he stated.

Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith criticized Spencer for his statement, saying that he opposed the sale of any alcoholic beverage on campus. “I am, however, really afraid to speak out against the plan for fear of antagonizing my old friend and strong adherent of the idea, Cecil Burney,” Smith said. Smith went on to quote a man of rare breed, a Davidson trustee, to support his beliefs, “Alcohol is the devil in liquid form.”

The “Spencer Plan” has met almost universal acceptance from the student body, many of whom have overwhelmingly applauded the foresight of Spencer. One jubilant student was heard to exclaim, “I knew Sammy would do something right if he was given enough time.”

Immediate opposition has risen from an anonymous SPE, who announced his intention to form an ad hoc committee to oppose the move (and secretly to bring fraternities back on campus). “Personally, I feel that bringing beer on campus would lower the calibre of student who would want to come here. It’s just like the problem of coeducation. Who would want to come to Davidson if it had girls?” the secretive SPE stated. “If necessary, we will fight this battle all the way to the trustees, who have final authority to veto this proposal,” he said.

Spencer seemed adequately prepared to meet this possibility. “I will take a two-month trip all the way to the tap at Charlie’s to study the whole area of beer consumption by the Davidson students. When I come back, I am sure that this whole question will have worked itself out, to the mutual dissatisfaction of all those involved,” Spencer noted reassuringly.

Speaking candidly, Spencer went on, “You know something, I really have had little to do recently but sit in my office and admire my brand-new tea cannister, which I received in token appreciation for leaving India. My latest coup should do much to make the name Spencer a more welcome one in the hearts of the entire community. I think that this move might make me feel important,” he said.

Davidsonian Wins Award

“It’s been a long time since I’ve seen a paper of this quality entered in competition, I just can’t believe that it was put out by college students.” That was the summary comment of the panel of judges who awarded THE DAVIDSONIAN honorable mention in the latest All-American judging. The paper was judged to fall short in terms of reporting, accuracy, editorial integrity, and photography. One judge mentioned that he had enjoyed the abstract prints which the college paper ran, but indicated that he thought that photographs were more appropriate with news stories than abstract woodcuts. “Outside of the Schlitz ads, there wasn’t anything in the paper that I enjoyed,” he said.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.