AY m: Friday, March 26: 15 Spm? Hungry d: Maggie and Roche ef | Saturday, March, a _"& p.m. Concert:
Jake Holmes 10:30 p.m. Hungry d: Maggie and Terre he 5 Wednesday, March 31 12 p.m. Lunch Films 7:45 p.m.
Artist Series: William Workman 9 p.m. Reception: Thursday, April 1 10 a.m. Ecology Speaker: Frank Graham Jr. 8 p.m. Fine
Film: "Black Orpheus" 6:30 p.m. Discussion: Love Auditorium Love Auditorium William Workman

Friday, April 2 8 p.m. Film: "Black Orpheus" 9:15 p.m. Lecturer: James G. Holland Love Auditorium Morrison Room

Saturday, April 3 8 p.m. Charlie Byrd Concert "Stop the World, I Want To Get Off" Morrison Room Love Auditorium

News Editor: ALEC HOON

Six Davidson students and one graduate have been named recipients of various scholarships to attend graduate schools or to study
abroad. Ed Shoaf, a resident of Charlotte, North Carolina and former THE DAVIDSONIAN editor, has received a Reynolds scholarship to
attend medical school. James Trussell and Alfred McGraw have been granted Watson Fellowships to study and travel abroad. Students Charlie
Parks, Julie Young, and Gary Cash, and Peter Hobbie, Class of '70, have received grants to study one year at
a divinity school.

Shoaf will receive $18,000 to be spent over a period of four years at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine.
The award, sponsored by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation, is given to eight North Carolina students entering medical school. The
Watson Fellowships, which include $6,000 for each student, emphasize independent study and travel.

Renovations Planned at Davidson College

Davidson College officials are presently planning renovations for the Grey House, Grey Duke, and Erwin Lodge. Located in a wooded
area east of the campus, Erwin Lodge in recent years has been damaged by vandalism, according to college officials. Funds
provided by Mrs. Robert Dyer of Chicago, daughter of the late Professor Erwin, will be used toward restoration of this
structure. Downstairs in the lodge, an apartment will be built to provide a residence for a young couple, who will
be responsible for reporting maintenance needs or other problems to the college. Upstairs there will be a large, heated recreation
hall.

The Grey House, located across from the President's Home, will be remodeled into a residence hall for women spending a
year at Davidson on exchange from various women’s colleges in Virginia. The building will provide living facilities for 12 women,
baths, a lounge, and limited kitchen equipment. College planners report that the house is historically valuable and structurally sound enough
to be useful for many more years after its renovation.

Cannon will receive new furniture, doors, hardware, paint, and hallway lighting. Duke will be repainted, with minor repairs in the
showers and hallway lighting, and a new lounge furnished.Renovation of Erwin Lodge To Perform On Campus ~ A program ranging
from 15th Century French chants to Stephen Foster's "Beautiful Dreamer" and lieder by Franz Schubert will be presented at Davidson
College on March 31 by William Workman, a leading baritone with the Hamburg (Germany) State Opera. Reservations for the 8:15
p.m. performance in Love Auditorium may be made with the college music department.

Workman, son of Davidson psychology professor W. G. Workman, attended North Mecklenburg High School, Davidson College, and the Curtis Institute
of Music before joining the Hamburg Opera in 1965. His program will include: Two arias by C. W. Gluck from
"Orfeo and Euridice"; three French songs of the 15th and 16th centuries, arranged by Julien Tiersot; six of the last
lieder of Schubert; five British folksongs arranged by Benjamin Britten; and serenades by Mozart, Schubert, Berlioz, Foster, Brahms, and Mussorgsky.
Pianist Anita Bultmann of Charlotte will accompany him. Workman was chosen in 1970 as one of the 24 most promising
young artists in the world by "Musical America" magazine.

Renovation of Erwin Lodge and Grey House has already commenced, and all work should be completed before September. Estimated cost
for the renovation of Erwin Lodge, Duke, Cannon, and the Carolina Inn is $200,000. The 134-year-old Carolina Inn has been
owned by the college since 1946, and it is now being renovated to provide meeting rooms and office space for
the Honors College.

The grants to study at divinity school, known as Rockefellers, come under the auspices of The Fund for Theological Education
Inc., and are sponsored by several national organizations. Trussell, a member of Phi Beta Kappa, will study family planning and
population control practices in Great Britain, Czechoslovakia, Japan, and Sweden. McGraw, who has been active in local drama productions and
whose paintings have won several awards, will be writing and sketching in France, Spain, Riviera, and North Africa.

As assistant Yale advisor, he hopes to do coordinate work in history while at seminary. Parks, who is presently working
in New York, is interested in Harvard Seminary. He was president of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and a member of
the committee of 18. Young has applied to Pacific School of Theology at Berkeley. He is presently an active member
of the ATO fraternity. The final winner, Cash, is interested in the Pacific School and Harvard. He is a former
president of PKA, presently married, and living off campus.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAK
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

GALLEY FISH CAMP TAPROOM
Where-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

SPECIAL SALE FOR SPRING FROLICS AT THE RED HANGER
NEW SELECTION LEE FLARES
SHORT SLEEVE SHIRTS
Reg. 10.00 Now 2 For 16.00
20% OFF ALL DRESS SHOES
Reg. 34.00 Now 18.00
32.00 Now 17.00
30.00 Now 16.00
28.00 Now 15.00
25.00 Now 13.50
Reg. 8.00 Now 2 For 12.80
Reg. 7.50 Now 2 For 12.00
REDUCED GROUP OF SPRING SPORT COATS AND SUITS
1/2 PRICE
THE RED HANGER
Davidson, N.C.
