~ A NEW SHAFT AT DAVIDSON - Students returning from the holidays were greeted by a new shaft on the Davidson campus. Workmen created this shaft in the tower of the Presbyterian church where an elevator will be installed to carry visitors to the steeple balcony. The construction marks the completion of the $200,000 renovation program begun in the Davidson church over a year ago. (Staff Photo by The Davidsonian, January 15, 1971)

Page Three

Squirrels Threatened? Stating that it is a year-round concern, the Davidson ECOS chapter broke its relative silence over the Christmas break with a concerted effort to stop the shooting of squirrels on the Davidson campus. Inactive since the activities of last April's Earth Day and torn internally by a serious power struggle, ECOS, according to spokesman John Fine, has united behind last year's leader Pat Mullen to oppose the shooting.

Grant Saves Yearbook - A publication grant of $5,000 has been given to the Quips & Cranks, the Davidson College yearbook. The grant, made available to the yearbook staff by the college administration, will come from Davidson's Living Endowment. According to Tim Timmons, editor of the yearbook, it was essential that Quips & Cranks receive extra funds "or else we could never have gotten the yearbook out by the spring term." Timmons, who convinced College President Dr. Samuel R. Spencer that the yearbook needed additional funding, expressed relief at the grant.

Cafeteria To Close Doors - With the advent of the new random-assortment eating clubs, the Union cafeteria will be phased out at the beginning of the spring term, according to Cafeteria Manager Klaus G. Kleeburg. Kleeburg will become food purchaser and nutrition adviser to the twelve nonselective eating clubs, effective March 22, the first day of the spring term. His job will be to buy bulk food from the United States Department of Agriculture food surplus stocks and distribute it to the twelve eating clubs for their use in preparing food. As nutrition adviser, he will also pass around suggested menus in order to aid the clubs in preparing appetizing and wholesome meals. When asked whether the food served at the clubs would be as starchy and greasy as the meals presently served by the Union cafeteria, Kleeburg said, "I hope that I will be able to help the eating clubs to maintain the reputation of high-quality food which the cafeteria has always enjoyed." The college, according to Kleeburg, has no plans on what to do with the cafeteria space. "Pete Nicholls," said Kleeburg, "wants to make a game room out of it. He says we could move the pool tables in there and set up a few pinball machines. I'm sure the pinball machines would pay for themselves." Asked whether the change would result in many fraternity members eating off-campus, Kleeburg philosophically said, "Oh, I guess that’s just a matter of taste."

EXHIBITION AND WYMPALL CAFE - Davidson College Cunningham Fine Arts Center Monday, Jan. 18 10 A.M. to 4 P.M."Accounting for taste, you know." Before the old gymnasium was remodeled into the present David Ovens College Union, the kitchen of the present cafeteria was the men's shower room. “Ecology is open anit on the Davidson front lawn. In a telephone interview, Mullen revealed that the supervisor of college janitors, Oscar Gant, has for years hunted squirrels on the Davidson campus. Mullen said that this year, however, Gant seemed to be having more success and “sometimes would get several in a single morning." It was the concern of ECOS, said Mullen, that Gant might shoot all the squirrels on the Davidson campus and in the immediate area of the town surrounding the campus. Such an event might seriously change the natural ecosystem of this area with disastrous consequences for several species of wildlife. According to Associate Professor of Biology W. T. Lammers, the danger is real, and “shooting too many squirrels might cause an increase in less desirable ground rodents such as chipmunks." Gant, however, said that he had personally never seen any damage caused by shooting squirrels. And in fact, he said that he began the practice only at the request of several town residents. “They requested the action and continue to request it," Gant said. Gant also revealed that several Davidson students had joined him in his daily hunts and that many were, in his words, "remarkable shots to be so young.” Mullen, however, said he would fight the practice even if everyone at Davidson took it up. “When the environment is at stake,” Mullen said, “people will just have to learn to make sacrifices. The Davidson ECOS is determined that this sacrifice will be made."

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Parmigiana — Salads
CHOICE STEAK
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

SUITS
Reg. $75 - $90
Now $52.50 - $59.50

SHIRTS
Reg. $7.00 - $10.50
Now $4.00 - $6.50

SALE SLACKS
Reg. $11 - $25
Now $7 - $16

WINTER CLEARANCE
THE RED HANGER
STARTS THURSDAY MORNING, JAN. 21 AT 9:00

SPORTS COATS
Reg. $45 - $70
Now $29.50 - $41.50

SWEATERS
Reg. $15.00 - $22.50
Now $9.50 - $13.50

ALL SHOES REDUCED
THE RED HANGER
Davidson, N.C.