Are Student Desires Considered?
AN ANALYSIS
By TODD EADES
Staff Writer

The initiation of the comprehensive fee has given rise to several questions regarding the operations of the college. Just what
is the policy of the college concerning student social programs and what weight do student interests and desires have in
the formulation of these policies? If one is to assume the most recently dated policy is official and binding, what
is one to think about previous and somewhat contradictory policy statements?

The comprehensive fee states that “all students will be required to room and board on campus unless officially excused by
the college.” This is meant to mean no more eating in town and even some students living off campus will
be required to eat on campus. Almost all students will eat on Patterson Court next year, either in a social
house or in one of the three ARA operated houses. This effectively removes all alternatives except these two.

The Committee of Eighteen Report, which is now one year old, states that a student “may remove himself from the
Patterson Court Social Program at the end of any term.” Under the comprehensive fee, a student who leaves a social
house would only eat in one of the ARA houses and thus would have little opportunity to change his social
life.

The May, 1971 statement of the Trustees on Section VII of the Trustee Social System Policy states that “the Board
recognizes and affirms the present practice of each individual student after his freshman year being able, with college concurrence, to
eat where he desires.” The comprehensive fee, with its limited exceptions and lack of viable alternatives, seems to directly contradict
the spirit of the trustee’s statement that a student should be allowed to eat where he desires.

The comprehensive fee will include a board fee for all students eating on the court, even in the new social
houses. But the Committee of Eighteen Report explicitly states that “the college shall not serve as a collection agency but
shall aid in collection should payment be outstanding beyond a certain time or above a certain amount...”

Is the Committee Report, which is college policy concerning the new social system, superseded by the initiation of the comprehensive
fee, and if so for what reasons? It is recognized that the college can alter policy, but are student interests
taken into account when this is done?

The Spencer Commission Report on Coeducation advised that “Davidson will have to... make sure that no one way of life
is forced upon everyone. It would seem to be the responsibility of the college these days to provide alternatives and
not one way for all.” Yet the comprehensive fee will reduce alternatives for students for alleged financial considerations.

The student senate voted 15-3-1 that board not be included in the comprehensive fee, with all of the three negative
votes being cast as a protest against the entire comprehensive fee. One would hope the administration would want to review
a decision that 18 senators voted against. The question is only now, post facto, going before the Student Life committee.
Shouldn’t a question which affects student social life have gone before this committee before decisions were made?

How important is it to the college that an individual student be allowed to develop his own social life? This
question needs to be answered and supported by the policies and actions of the college.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
OCTOBER 29, 1971

Student Body Approves NSA Affiliation; Candidates Sparse In RHC Election
By DAVID HANIG
News Editor

The affiliation of the SGA with the National Student Association was approved by the student body, and RHC representatives were
elected in every dormitory except Belk on Tuesday. Approximately 384 students, or 59 percent of those voting, approved the student
senate’s decision to affiliate with the NSA, whereas 261, or 40 percent, voted to overturn the senate’s action. To reverse
the senate’s action, two-thirds of the student body had to vote ‘no’; however, only 63 percent of the student body
voted.

“I am pleased with the way the vote turned out,” said SGA President Danny Clodfelter. “I think we have got
to take full advantage of our membership, though.”

New Library Facade Asked
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Asst. Managing Editor

In a Wednesday evening meeting in Greensboro, the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees, members of the Library Planning
Committee, and architects for Davidson’s proposed new E. H. Little Library met to discuss changes in the exterior design of
the new building. Last week, the trustees voted to request new facade designs for the $4 million structure to be
built behind Chambers Building. The architects were asked to...Submit three new plans at a November 17 meeting of the same
group. The three new plans requested were a similar plan with some modifications, a new plan in the same architectural
style, and a plan which reflects twentieth-century architecture. The trustees reminded the Library Planning Committee, which is chaired by Director
of the Library Chalmers Davidson, that their work is only in an advisory capacity, and that the final decision on
the library design lies with the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees. According to Davidson, no member of the
library committee was so “100 per cent for those (proposed) plans that they didn’t want them to be re-studied.” No
member of the committee, which is composed of Davidson, Leland Park, assistant director of the library, Professor Malcolm Lester, the
Vice-Presidents of Finance and Development and Academic Affairs, and Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze, was reportedly overly upset
over the “rejection,” suggested Davidson.

The location of the new library, which necessitates the demolition of the present David Ovens College Union, has drawn the
ire of Earl McCormick of the Philosophy Department, among others. The cost of the library is increased by the destruction
of a multi-million dollar building for the construction of a more costly building. The final decision on the exterior design
of the library should be made at that November 17 meeting by the members of the Executive Committee of the
Trustees.

Senior Bob Morey, a prominent member of the Stop-NSA Movement on campus, said, “Naturally, I am disappointed that we did
not win our case. I think that the defeat was caused partly by the lack of knowledge on the part
of the student body of what the feud was all about. Our strongest suit is that the pro-NSA people will
have to produce. I personally feel that they will have problems because it is hard to deliver the undeliverable,” Morey
said.

In the Residence Hall Council elections, representatives from Little, Watts, Cannon, and Richardson were elected without opposition. East and West
Belk did not select their representatives because nobody in those two wings registered for the election. According to Bill Lear,
Chairman of the SGA Elections Committee, SGA Vice President and RHC President Bill Alexander will decide the mode of selection
for the two representatives. “There will be no more elections,” Lear said. Elected Tuesday were David Faison, Duke; Rich Love,
Sentelle; Thomas Parks, Cannon; Ricky Deal, Watts; Tommy Ross, Little; and Rob Strand, Richardson. In a run-off election Wednesday, Bob
Cunningham was elected as Center Belk’s representative on the RHC.

Student leaders, however, maintain that the lack of interest concerning the RHC among the student body is proof that the
RHC is sinking in its value to the college. “That so few students ever bothered to run for the office
is an indication that the RHC should be abolished,” said one student.

Faculty Scheduled To Vote On 3 Amendments Tuesday
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

The faculty will confront some controversial issues Tuesday when they vote on open faculty meetings, the co-curricular committee, and student
membership on two faculty committees. The open faculty proposal will come up for its first reading Tuesday. Last spring the
faculty directed the Executive Committee to draft a proposal based on the student government’s plan which would make 15 seats
available to any member of the student body. The student government proposed that these students would have floor privileges but
no vote. Under this plan, the faculty may close its meeting by a three-fourths vote of those present. Since this
proposal would be an amendment to the Faculty Constitution, it must pass the first reading Tuesday by a majority vote
and the second reading by a three-fourths vote. An open meeting on open faculty meetings was held Sept. 28.

Also at Tuesday’s meeting, the faculty will vote on the first reading of the Co-Curricular Education Board, another proposed amendment
to the Faculty Constitution. The board would plan, coordinate, and implement all campus programs of public lectures, art presentations, and
special events such as big weekends. The board would be composed of six faculty members, four administrators, and seven student
members. Director of the Union C. Shaw Smith would chair the committee.

The faculty will also vote on the second reading of the proposals for student representation on the Faculty Admissions Committee
and the Faculty Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee. Also a constitutional amendment, these proposals must pass by a three-fourths majority
and then be endorsed by the trustees before they go into effect. The vote on the Admissions Committee proposal on
first reading was 51-29. The vote on the Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee proposal was 42-33 on first reading.
