The Davidsonian September 24, 1971

Page Seven

Wildcats Tackle SC Leading Indians

By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Tomorrow the Wildcats will face their second opponent to employ the veer offense.

William and Mary has recently adopted the veer, and has made good use of the new style thus far in
their season.

Fumbles,

The Indians declared publicly that they felt their season would end after their first two games, and they intended to
prove that they would win the Southern Conference title for the second straight year by trouncing their two closest contenders,
The Citadel and East Carolina.

Steals Kill Cat Attack

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

If a prize were given for the most snake-bitten football team in America, the Davidson Wildcats would win easily.

After suffering a disastrous combination of fumbles, interceptions, leaky defense and genuine bad breaks last season, coaches and players alike
were confident that things had to improve.

Against Wake Forest the underdog ’Cats fought admirably and showed signs that perhaps the tables would turn for them soon.

The VMI game was probably looked upon by many fans as a breather on the schedule.

The usually hapless Keydets presented somewhat of an unknown quantity before Saturday’s contest, and new Coach Bob Thalman’s charges were
at least nine-point underdogs to the ’Cats.

What took place in Lexington would make a good item for Ripley’s. The Wildcat offense, spearheaded by quarterbacks Scotty Shipp
and Rick Kemmerlin and runner Johnny Ribet, amassed 403 total yards. However, it forgot to do one thing: score touchdowns.

Harold Wilkerson’s thirty-yard field goal seemed small compared to the 27 points scored by the Keydets.

Moving the football was no problem for the offense, as it mounted four drives of over sixty yards. The old
nemeses, two interceptions and four fumbles, thwarted these scoring opportunities.

On one occasion, Ribet smashed his way down near the goal line and apparently thrust the ball across for a
score. Officials ruled differently, however, and on a subsequent play Shipp fumbled on the Keydet one-yard line.

The ’Cats defense relaxed on only a few plays, but these proved to be costly. A seventy-six yard gallop by
Keydet back Mac Bowman put the ’Cats in a hole 14-3, and they could not recover.

Several young players turned in outstanding games on offense for the ’Cats. Junior end Andy Davis caught five passes and
seemed to have recovered from his leg injury. Sophomores Mike Harding and Dave Ingold also snagged several passes.

The Wildcats at this stage of the schedule have proven that the defense can perform brilliantly and that the offense
can produce awesome statistics. However, the right mixture of each in the same game is needed.

Against such a formidable foe as Wake Forest, the ’Cats looked like world beaters. Against a greatly improved, but not
exactly terrifying VMI team, bad luck and mistakes led to their downfall.

They defeated both teams by large margins on the road and return to Williamsburg this week for their first home
game against the Wildcats.

The Indian’s veer will not be as new to Davidson as it was to the other Southern Conference teams, for
they faced one of the best executed veers at Wake Forest.

The Davidson defense held its own for over three quarters, maintaining a Wildcat lead, but finally succumbed late in the
game to a torrent of Deacon scoring.

“We have improved,” Davidson head coach Dave Fagg says, “and we are working on overcoming the mistakes that have cost
us past games.”

The Indians will be one of the toughest opponents the ’Cats will face. Last year they barely eked out a
fourth quarter victory over Davidson, but they began the year with almost the same team returning, including the entire backfield.

Todd Bushnell, the Indians' second leading rusher for last year, broke his collar bone in their match with The Citadel,
and is out for the season.

But the key to the William and Mary offense is their running back Phil Mosser.

Mosser racked up 1286 yards rushing last year and is expected to repeat or improve that figure this year. He
scored over 50 points last season.

The greatest advantage the Wildcats will have is in attitude.

William and Mary considers the tough part of their season to be over after their first two wins, while Davidson
thinks of the season as just beginning.

Harriers to Open At Stone Mountain

The Davidson cross-country team travels to Atlanta tomorrow to open its season against what coach Sterling Martin terms “an outstanding
field.”

Twelve Wildcat runners will compete with over two hundred other runners for fifteen individual trophies and a team trophy in
the Stone Mountain Road Race.

Three of Martin’s runners have competed at Stone Mountain before. Last year, team captain Howard Boyd placed 27th, Joe Shibley
got 48th place, and Richard Fort took 57th.

Wildcat Checkbook Covers

PLUS 200 Free Imprinted Checks when you open a Piedmont Savings Account

Only at Piedmont Bank—a handsome vinyl checkbook in official Davidson red. Open your Checking Account now at the know-you bank.
No service charges if you maintain a $100 balance!

YOUR CHOICE OF TWO DAVIDSON CHECK DESIGNS:

Wildcat or College Seal. 200 imprinted checks FREE if you open a $300 Savings Account; also available for only $2.35.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY © MEMBER FDIC

FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS
