April 9, 1971 Page Eight The Davidsonian

Harold Wilkerson WEIRD CATCHES (Staff photo by Lyle) bobbles the ball in the Pfeiffer game.

CLARK LEADS LINKERS
Golfers Split Pair With State, Duke
By DAVE TIERNEY
Sports Writer

Led by senior Doug Clark, the Davidson golf team split two matches this week, edging N. C. State but going down in defeat against Duke's squad. Clark, who Coach Tom Scott says is “capable of playing consistent par golf,” shot a 74 against State. Clark is a three-year letterman who this year is playing as the number one man on the club. Clark opened the year shooting a 73 at the Furman Invitational, and Tuesday, playing under terrible conditions at Duke, along with Dick Spinner, posted what Scott termed “an excellent round.”

Wilkerson Wants “To Stay In Action”
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Why would anyone want to be a catcher for a college baseball team? According to Harold Wilkerson, catcher for the Wildcats, it’s for the power. “I'm always in the center of the action,” Wilkerson said, “and I get to call all the action in the infield.”

The catcher is responsible for deciding what pitch will work best against a batter and for calling infield plays. Wilkerson, who says he has been a catcher all his life, has been behind the plate for Davidson for three years. Last summer, Wilkerson played on an amateur team in Arlington, Va., that was part of an area-wide league.

Scott To Institute Changes In P.E.
Several major alterations in the present physical education program at Davidson may begin next year, according to Tom Scott, director of athletics. Scott said that there will be a major evaluation of the program to be presented to the Educational Policy Committee April 23.

The first suggested change will be the institution of “proficiency tests” for students taking P.E. A proficiency test will determine whether a student has a basic understanding of a sport, including fundamentals, rules, strategy, and history. Passing a certain test will allow a student to exempt a gym course while receiving credit in that subject. Scott said that the tests may also be used to set outlines for subjects to be taught in a term.

According to the plan, an entering freshman could possibly pass tests and exempt requirements. The second major change will be in the years a student is required to take P.E. Although there will be no change in the actual amount of time that will be required, the system will be structured so that a student may fulfill his requirement anytime during his four years at Davidson. This would change the present requirement from freshman and sophomore years to six credits over four years.

“We are not interested in gym simply so students will get exercise,” Scott said, “but we wish to teach skills that they will be able to use later in leisure and business.” Scott said that an effort would be made to reemphasize sports such as handball and golf. “We also have started several programs which will help students towards getting summer jobs, such as Water Safety Instructor and first aid programs.” Scott said that he did not foresee any expansion of the current program.present program, for “there was little else they could cover.” At present, there are 18 different subjects taught in the physical education program. For players 19 years old or younger, his team placed second in the nation in that age group. “Sometimes my experience last summer affects my playing here," he said. “I was catching for some very fine pitchers and sometimes I get upset with the pitchers here.” He went on to compliment Davidson's pitching. Wilkerson is optimistic about the Wildcats’ chances in the Southern Conference this year. “Davidson has done poorly in past years and most of the teams expect the same this year,” he said. “But we've got batters this year that are going to hit against any pitcher, no matter who he is.”

Wilkerson does his share towards embarrassing opposing pitchers, hitting .339 in 14 games and driving in seven runs. In Monday's contest with Pfeiffer, Wilkerson hit his first home run of the season. Davidson beat Pfeiffer 4-1 with both Wilkerson and Jack Willits hitting homers. Ross Manire pitched his first full game for the ‘Cats and lowered his ERA from 6.75 to 2.08. Last Saturday, Davidson split a doubleheader with the Spiders from the University of Richmond. Davidson won the first game 11-4 with both Willits and Rick Pipan, the pitcher, hitting homers. They lost the second 8-4. Wilkerson said that he felt the ‘Cats could last against any team they meet. “I feel sure we've hit more home runs than any team in the conference,” he said, “and we've been hitting well from all parts of the lineup.”

Tomorrow the Wildcats will take on the Bulldogs of The Citadel in a doubleheader here at Davidson. Monday they will travel to Guilford and then return to meet UNC-Wilmington here on Wednesday. Thursday they will finish out the week with a doubleheader at conference power Furman.

Scott also praised Rusty Boyd, Davidson's medalist with a 70 against State, and the two freshmen on the team, Spinner and Jim Ray. Scott said both were fine golfers who had definitely helped what he termed “an improved team.” The two freshmen finished second and third behind Clark in the Furman Invitational. Due to inclement weather which caused insufficient pre-season practice, the results have been satisfactory. In fact, Scott stated only one of the seven members shot over 80 against State. The team is playing a match today at Charlotte Country Club against Trenton State, and next week meets North Carolina, one of the better teams in this area. North Carolina finished fourth in the Cape Coral Invitational tournament in Cape Coral, Fla. Scott called this a “big tournament” and said that this is an indication of the prowess of the team. One of the Carolina golfers shot a 65 on the first day. The site for the second match with North Carolina State has been changed. The match was previously scheduled for Westport, but has been changed to Fort Mill.

WANT A CAREER? A FUTURE! Excitement—travel—top commission—opportunity for advancement. Why not sell ads for THE DAVIDSONIAN?—Check by the newspaper office in the union.

Spring Dress-Up
See our New Selections:
Suits
Sportcoats
Slacks
Jeans
Knit Shirts
Swim Wear
Beach Pants
Boots
Clothing for the pace-setter
John Mack & Son
Mooresville, N.C.