Page Eight May 21, 1971 The Davidsonian (Staff photo by Erwin) EXPECTATION Cannon I’s David Reid awaits his chance for
a smash in IMAC play.

Mosketti Brings New Style To Wildcat Defensive Ranks
By A. W. TURNER
Asst. Sports Editor

A new face and a new style. The combination of these two elements in the Wildcat football coaching ranks could
result in one of the best defensive units in recent Davidson gridiron history. Robert Mosketti is in his first year
at Davidson after coming from Mansfield, Ohio, this winter to replace Turnley Todd. Since his arrival, he has introduced new
ideas and has instituted a new style of defense. Mosketti has stressed pride and desire in order to build a
basic foundation. “Execution is important,” he added.

Mosketti is trying something new with Wildcat gridders. “We're going with a four linebacker setup,” he said, “because we have
a great deal of depth at that position. We also have a strong front four. We are going with only
three deep men because nine of the ten teams we will face next season will be running the triple option,
and we feel that an eight-man front is the best way to defense that type of offense.”

Mosketti has worked to simplify the defense this spring. “We will be moving and slanting on defense in reaction to
the ball. It is important to make the defense simple enough so that our defensive men do not have to
think. They will just react to the ball.”

Davidson Soccer Players Recruit Eleven Freshmen

The Davidson soccer team has recruited eleven freshmen to help defend their conference title next year. Soccer recruiting is run
in a very different manner from either basketball or football recruiting, since there is no scholarship money for soccer players.
Any recruiting done for soccer is done by the team members, according to captain Dick Levan.

Levan said that he is “very excited” about the recruiting and feels that the group will help to fill in
the gaps created by the loss of the play of several exchange students, including all-conference halfback, Gudmundur Karlsson.

The list includes goalies Donnie Balin, an all-state goalie from Georgia, and Jim Jernigan, an all-conference player from Winter Park,
Fla. Two players from Jacksonville, Fla., Bob Howell, an outstanding inside, and Mike Tanner, a halfback, will also play. Tom
Tonnee, an all-conference inside from North Bellmont, N.Y., will also play. Three linemen, Tim Van Blommestyn, high scorer for Choate,
the New England Class A champions, Roslyn Harbor, N.Y., Jack Liniard, an all-state lineman from Indianapolis, Ind., and Keith Stanzel,
an inside or wing from Gloverville, N.Y., have expressed interest in the Davidson team. Joe Duncan, captain of his Wisconsin
team, and Arn Eliasson, Washington, D.C., will join the Wildcats as halfbacks. The sole fullback signee is Robert Anders, Canaan,
N.Y.

Taus, Pikas Enter Finals As IMAC Season Ends
By HOWARD BOYD
Sports Writer

The Taus and Pikas met yesterday in the finals of the softball tournament, while the Machis and East remained the
last two unbeaten teams in IMAC tennis as the intramural season comes to a close. The Taus sprang upsets over
the SPEs and Sigs while the Pikas whipped the Machis and Delts, setting up Thursday's championship showdown.

The Taus rallied for three runs in the seventh inning Monday to overcome the SPEs 4-3. Reeves Louthan and Ken
Moore rapped back-to-back singles, and after two outs and a walk to Ken Jones, Jim Roy belted a two-run double
to tie the score at 3-3.The new coach seemed extremely pleased with the progress his defensive team is making. “I
feel that we have reached the ultimate in what we are trying to do,” he stated. Mosketti was equally as
optimistic about the Wildcat team as a whole. He said that the team’s goal this year is “to win them
all.” Mosketti is no stranger to winning teams. He took Mansfield High School from a winless season in 1969 to
an undefeated one in 1970.

Ted Woods followed with a single, driving home Roy with the winning run. Tuesday, the Taus overcame an eight-run Sig
third with a balanced attack to chalk up a 13-10 triumph. Woods homered for the victors, now 10-3. The Pikas,
10-2, exploded for eighteen runs in the third to wipe out an 8-0 deficit and went on to thump the
Machis 24-17 in the year’s biggest slugfest. The next day they ousted the Delts 8-1 behind solid pitching and defense,
while the hitting of George Graff, Tom Vandiver, and Dennis Watson sparked a six-run second inning. The loss avenged a
season-opening 19-4 loss to the Delts. The Delts and Sigs finished at 10-2 in a tie for third (second if
the Taus lost in the finals), with the SPEs 9-2 and the Machis 8-3.

In tennis, the Machis, led by smooth-stroking stylist John Saunders, defeated the Betas 2-0, the Sigs 2-1, and the Delts
2-1 to gain a berth in the finals of the winners’ bracket Thursday. Meanwhile, East I, behind the play of
power-hitting Jim Dorsett, smashed the Taus, Cannon I, and the Pikas, losing only one match to gain the other spot.
Four other teams remain alive in the double-elimination tourney. In losers’ bracket play, the Sigs 3-1 faced the Pikas, 2-1,
and the Delts, 2-1, met Cannon I, 2-1, on Thursday. The winners meet next week for the right to play
the Machi-East I loser.

The Sigs’ Joe Finch edged Ran Coble 9-7 and then teamed with Geraty to win the doubles 9-8 and oust
the Indies, whose Charlie Ralston had beaten Geraty 9-4. Cannon I eliminated the SAEs 2-0 as Slagle beat Dave Faison
9-5 and Steve Earp trounced Scott Sheftall 9-1.

Horowitz Signs As Third Cager

Coach Terry Holland has announced the third cage prospect to sign with Davidson, Larry Horowitz, a 6-7, 200-pound high post
man, has decided to play for the Wildkittens next year. Horowitz averaged 19 points and 16.4 rebounds a game for
Grant High School in Van Nuys, California. He led the East Valley League in both rebounding and scoring and was
an all-conference player.

“Larry is one of the finest players I have coached,” said Grant coach W. R. McKee, who coached UCLA post
man Jim Neilson, now freshman coach for the Bruins. “Larry has all the tools with his prime assets being his
size and quickness. I don't think I can overemphasize how quick he is for his size,” he added.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. — Sunday 9:30 A.M. to 10:30
Phone 892-2111
Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries — Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Phone 376-2576
Charlotte, N. C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

We would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our customers for their support this year and to
wish each of you well this summer.
Thank you,
Butch Doster
THE RED HANGER
Davidson, N. C.
