Page Eight October 15, 1971 The Davidsonian

‘Cats Take First Win At Bucknell
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

It wasn’t on the schedule, but the Davidson Wildcats almost played powerful Penn State last Saturday. The Bucknell Bison probably wish that had happened. The Wildcats whipped the Bison 20-8 for their first win of the season, and snapped an eight-game losing streak dating back to last year.

A mix-up at the Harrisburg, Pa., airport found the ’Cats on a bus headed for College Park where Penn State was hosting Army. (Staff photo by Campbell)

DAZZLING DAVIDSON DEFENSE
Fullback Helmut Bernhardt protects the Davidson goal against Furman.

Fortunately for the ’Cats, the error was discovered in time for them to motor to tangle with Bucknell, while Army should not even have shown up, as they lost 42-0.

The victory over the Bison, according to Wildcat head coach Dave Fagg, proved what he had known all along—that the ’Cats are getting better each week. “We just whipped them,” Fagg commented, “and the defense was tremendous.” He noted that the defense gave ground at times, but came through with the big plays at the right moments.

Fagg cited a fantastic goal-line stand as an example of the flexible defense which bent, but didn’t break. The entire defensive unit performed well, but Fagg mentioned Robert Norris, Terry Woodlief, Mike Sikes, and Ross Manire as standouts. Norris finished second in voting for Southern Conference defensive player of the week, while sophomore Manire, playing in place of injured Woody Montgomery, nabbed an important interception.

The ‘Cats offense enjoyed its best point production of the season, in spite of fewer total yards than in previous games. “John Ribet continued to run like one of the finest backs in the conference, and he made three beautiful catches for about 55 yards,” Fagg stated. Linemen Robert Elliott and Larry Spears were praised by Fagg for what he termed their best game as Wildcats.

The passing of Scotty Shipp was not sharp against the Bison, but Fagg compared a passing game to having a hot hand in poker. “Sometimes you'll get a good hand to start with and no one can beat you,” he explained, “and our passing was the opposite of that. We had several well-thrown passes dropped early in the game, and we could never quite get that hot hand.”

Sophomore halfback John Webel showed continued improvement, as he scored two touchdowns in the final quarter. Fagg called the victory “a real good tonic for some sick players and coaches.”

In the minds of many Wildcat fans, the defeat of Bucknell ranks on a level with the upset of Richmond in Fagg’s debut as head coach last year. The long dry spell between victories had been rough on coaches and players alike, but as Fagg puts it, “we always tell our men to think and act like winners.” At Bucknell, the ’Cats showed that they can play like winners.

‘Cats Risk One-Game Streak In Furman Homecoming Tilt
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

One-game winning streaks are not too much to brag about, but the Davidson Wildcats are certainly proud of theirs, which they put on the line tomorrow at Furman. The Furman Paladins are riding the crest of two consecutive...

Injury-Ridden Soccer Team Battles Pfeiffer Tomorrow
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The injury-ridden Davidson soccer team fell into something of a slump during the past week. After routing three opponents and squeaking out a win over Western Carolina, the Wildcats eased by Furman 2-0 last Friday, and then soiled their perfect record with a loss to Duke.

Tomorrow the booters will travel to Pfeiffer to meet that team in their Homecoming game. Pfeiffer does not field a football team, and the soccer match will be the big athletic event for the returning alumni. Pfeiffer requested Davidson as their opponent, according to soccer coach Harry Fogleman, and this is the second time the Wildcats have played at Pfeiffer's Homecoming.

Fogleman said he felt the team should fare well against Pfeiffer, if they are not too badly hampered by injuries. Three players were injured in the Furman game. Fogleman said that the game was very physical, and that the officiating was not up to par. “The game really got out of hand,” he said, “and there was a lot of pushing and shoving.”

The team lost two key linemen, Johnny Robison and Seraphin Ghbari, to twisted knees. Both will be out for about two weeks. Fullback Helmut Bernhardt pulled a groin...muscle, and the time of his return is unsure. Goalie Charlie Heiner has not been able to play due to an injured knee, and backs Donnie Bain and Robin Gray were both roughed around and battered. Despite these holes in the lineup, the 'Cats were able to pull out their fourth consecutive win against Furman. The game proved to be a lot harder battle than most of the players had suspected, and remained scoreless until the fourth quarter when exchange Gbari booted in both Davidson scores.

The team did not hold out so well at Duke. The Blue Devils, in the form of a Chilean exchange student, ran over the Wildcats 8-3 to give the Davidson team their first loss of the year. Lepo, the South American, scored six of the Duke goals and assisted on a seventh. The Wildcats played better than the score indicated, according to Fogleman, and were trailing only four to three at the half. "We have nothing to be ashamed of," he said, "we played a fine game, and we had a lot of holes to fill in the lineup." In fact, the Duke coach said he was amazed we could play so well with so many boys out of the game," he added. "We were still in the game despite the number of cripples."

The lack of Bernhardt and Heiner was particularly felt in the Duke game. The Wildcat defense was not able to contain the Blue Devil attack, and with the halfbacks constantly playing defense, the line was unable to maintain a strong attack. After Pfeiffer, the booters return to face Belmont-Abbey. Wins into the contest, which will be their Homecoming game. The Paladins have a 2-2-1 worksheet, and have really come on strong after a slow start. In their opening game, the Paladins played a scoreless tie with Appalachian, and then lost on successive weeks to perennial NAIA powers Presbyterian and Wofford. VMI became the Paladins' first victim two weeks ago, and last Saturday Furman toppled a strong Western Carolina team 21-14.

If recent games between the 'Cats and the Paladins are any indication, the technical and highly specialized aspects of football can be forgotten. Wildcat head coach Dave Fagg anticipates a very physical and emotional battle. "We expect to continue to improve, while they certainly have momentum going for them," he commented.

Two senior backs carry most of the load for the Paladin offense. Quarterback John DeLeo and runner Steve Crislip form a dangerous tandem who will put much pressure on the 'Cat defenders. DeLeo is quite an accurate passer, as he threw only one interception in 140 attempts last year. Fagg mentioned that DeLeo also executes the option play very well, while Crislip is all-conference material. On the receiving end of DeLeo's aerials will be junior college transfer John Monferdini and sophomores Mike Bartik and Blake Carlyle.

Defensively, the Paladins normally employ an eight-man front, or they switch into the split-6 formation. Tomorrow's contest should find both teams keyed up, for as Fagg put it, "the team which gets more excited will probably win." There will be much to get excited about, because the Paladins will be seeking another conference win to stay within range of William and Mary, while the 'Cats try to expand their win streak and gain their first conference triumph.

Skippers Open At UT Regatta

The Davidson sailing season will finally get underway this weekend with a regatta at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville. Two regattas had been previously scheduled for the past two weeks, one at USC and one at Old Dominion, but both were called off. The Davidson skippers will face tough competition at the UT race, according to Jimmy Hunter, skipper in the A division. "We will be racing Flying Juniors," he said, "and one of the UT skippers placed third in the national rankings in Juniors."

Hunter said he expects the conference teams to be fairly equal this year, a change from the past seasons when the sailing was dominated by The Citadel, USC, and Davidson. USC's superskipper, Anne Boyd, will be returning this year. She placed third in the Y-Flyer Internationals during the summer. Hunter also commented on the potential strength of the Clemson sailors, noting that the majority of their last year's team will be returning to competition.

The B division skipper has not been picked for tomorrow's race. Frank Somerville will crew for Hunter, and Tom King will crew in the B division.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.