Page Eight April 28, 1972 The Davidsonian

Students To Organize
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The first steps toward the organization of a football club will be taken Monday night with a meeting of all
interested students with an organizer of the Chapel Hill club. Five schools in North Carolina presently have clubs, and the
members of the area conference hope to add Davidson and ECU to their ranks next year.

Wildcats
By BRUCE BECKER
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team defeated two teams of regional prominence in the last week. In successive games, the Cats beat
the UNC Tar Heels 5-3 and Duke 9-6. Wednesday they lost to Belmont Abbey 5-1. On Thursday they played Catawba
College, and tomorrow they will travel to Charleston, S.C. to play The Citadel in a doubleheader starting at 1:30 p.m.

One of the key figures in the Chapel Hill club will be in the Green Room in the College Union
to discuss the organization of a football club. A football club is intended to give students a chance to play
intercollegiate football without the hassles of regular varsity play. The teams play regular 11-man tackle football, but such things as
practice time and equipment are limited by the conference to equalize play between the clubs. Practices are limited to three
days a week in weeks preceding conference games. At most, only two days out of the three can be for
full-pads drills or “hitting” practice.

“We wish to keep our play on the amateur level,” a spokesman for the Chapel Hill club stated, “and we
have no desire to drill a lot or do a lot of conditioning.”

Upset UNC, Duke

The Cats were led by Harold Wilkerson and George Weicker against UNC. Each picked up two hits, both doubles for
Weicker. Dwight Plemmons pitched a fine ball game and picked up the win. Last Monday, Duke errors in the late
innings helped and allowed the Wildcats to secure the victory.

Boyd Seeks Crown
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson golfers travel to Sanford Tuesday and Wednesday for the Southern Conference tournament, and Coach Tom Scott ranks Wildcat
Rusty Boyd as one of the medalist favorites.

“Rusty has been very consistent this year, and I think he has a good chance at the individual title,” said
Scott. Boyd, a junior from Birmingham, Ala., has played in the number one position on the team all season and
has been pointing to the tournament as a personal goal.

“I'd really like to win the championship, and I think I have a good shot at it,” he explained. Describing
the 6,900-yard Quail Ridge course, Boyd noted that “it's not very long, and the main thing to do is keep
the ball in play. I can reach the par fives in two, and that’s a good way to pick up
strokes.”

Playing in the contingent with Boyd will be Jim Ray, Bob Reni, Dick Spinner, Dave Faison, and Sam Mitchener. Scott
stated that the team’s chances hinged primarily on the score from the fifth position. In recent weeks the squad has
dropped five matches, but individual scores have greatly improved. The Cats were defeated 10½-7½ by N.C. State and 6½-5½ by
East Carolina on a Raleigh course which Boyd termed “really poor.” He added that the temporary greens made play very
difficult. UNC topped theCats 11-7 on April 7, and Boyd set the pace with a 73. Other Cat scores were
Ray 75, Spinner 76, and Reni 77. The linksters fell twice to Duke by scores of 9½-2½ and 14-7. Boyd
again led the way with a 71 and a 73, while Spinner’s 74 in the latter match was his best
performance. Boyd characterized the losses by saying that the squad played well, but “a few bad holes really hurt us
in each match. We’ve all improved, especially Reni, who has played well for a freshman, and Faison, who has cut
his average from 90 to 80.”

The score was 5-0 going into the seventh inning. In the last three frames, not only were there several errors
and Wildcat hits, but the Blue Devils also contributed to the cause by walking in a run. Weicker had three
hits, which ran his string to seven in three games. Folger picked up the victory. Wednesday, April 26, against Belmont
Abbey, the Wildcats had little luck at the plate. They faced the Abbey’s ace pitcher, Penne Holmes. Earlier in the
season, Holmes pitched a no-hitter against the University of Maryland. Lynn Wagner had just one hit, but it knocked in
Davidson's only run. For the Wildcats, the sudden success of Weicker, a freshman, has been the story of the season.
He has a shot at the conference batting championship and is now hitting .389.

OPEN 9-8
The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY
Come in for suggestions - Free gift wrap!
The Village Store
Davidson, N.C.

According to the UNC Club, the emphasis of club football is the enjoyment of the game, without the work involved
in varsity play. “We have a lot of people come out who played football in high school and would like
to play, but aren't big enough or don’t have the time for the varsity.” He said that in the games
“everyone who can make it to practice can get to play.” The conference also states that all equipment used by
club members must be their own. “We haven't had any real problems getting enough equipment,” he said. “A lot of
our players buy outdated equipment cheaply from the athletic department or their old high school coaches.” The Chapel Hill Club
is willing to lend eight full suits to Davidson to start out. The clubs are coached by experienced players or
by faculty members and have no connection with the regular football program. The organization of a Davidson club is being
handled by Carl Rizzo, an ex-varsity player.

Phone 892-2111
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Cosmetics—Russell Stover Candies
Complete Prescription Service—Sundries—Toiletries
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.—Wed 9 to 12—Sun. 9:30 to 10:30
Davidson, N.C.
131 N. Main St.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

Haggar knits
high fashion hit
This texturized knit has famous Haggar “give” that lets you be a free man—free to move when and where you
want without binding or sagging. Herringbone stripe comes in cool summer shades. Flared, flap pockets and belt loops. Washable. $17.00

Come browse and see our campus clothes bought with you in mind. Use your charge account.
Mooresville
Only 6 miles north.
