HOT POTATO (Staff photos by Powers) Scotty Shipp passes the ball on an option play.

Gridders Meet Strong Bucknell
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Staff Writer

“Bucknell is the strongest team we have met this season except for the Air Force,” explained coach Dave Fagg. When the Bison invade Richardson Field tomorrow, they will sport a 4-1 record, while eagerly hoping to avenge a loss at the hands of the Wildcats last year.

“They hit inside and outside well and are a fine all-around offensive team,” praised Fagg. “Their only loss has been to a real tough Lehigh team.”

The Bison will show their premier runner Mitch Farbstein, who has gained 225 yards in five games so far. Three other strong sprinters will carry the ball for Bucknell, which has a team average of nearly 200 yards per game. The Bison have quarterback Bob Bianchi, who throws for over 100 yards per game and has almost a .500 completion percentage.

The Wildcats will once again rely on Scotty Shipp to direct the offense. Shipp’s percentage is now at .580 for the season. But he will have to be more consistent and avoid the costly interceptions that were evident against Wofford, according to Fagg.

With Dave Ingold, Alton Malcolm, and John Webel still injured, the Wildcats will be very shallow in the rushing department. “Unless we become more healthy, we could be in big trouble Saturday,” said Fagg.

Defensively, the Bison run a split four front, with three men deep. “They have good linebackers and a strong line,” Fagg pointed out. “We will have to be better on the passing.”

The Bison defense has allowed only an average rush of 2.2 yards and a passing percentage of only 35 percent. The game could very easily turn out to be a match between a good passer and a tight secondary, according to Fagg. The Bucknell team has allowed only an eight points per game average in its previous encounters.

“I think they will come after our throwing game,” said Fagg. “There will be a big rush and a lot of pressure. We will have to make the big plays.”

Shipp will have Walt Walker and Andy Davis, two of the Southern Conference's top receivers, ready to provide the receptions Saturday. Ingold has gained 462 yards on the ground so far this season. Jeff Heinicka has picked up 257. The team carries a total offense average of 370 yards per game into the Bucknell contest. The Bison defense has allowed only 181 yards per game.

“We will have to have a better kicking game if we intend to win,” said Fagg. “I look for a real tough one at homecoming,” admitted Fagg. “They are real strong.”

The Wildcats must score if they intend to beat the Bison tomorrow at the 1972 homecoming game. They will rely on the offense to overpower a tough defense.

CUTTING DOWNFIELD
Dave Ingold heads past the Wofford line.

Davidsonian
October 27, 1972
Page Nine

Terriers Outsneak Cat Gridders 27-17; Fagg Berates Refs
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The Davidson gridders picked up their fourth loss last Saturday as the Wofford Terriers outsneaked the Wildcats 27-17. Wofford capitalized on Davidson mistakes and the breaks of the game for their scoring, while the Cats had to work long drives to get on the board.

The first Davidson score was a 35-yard pass from Scotty Shipp to Walt Walker in the second quarter. The Cats thought they would take the lead into the half, but the Terriers bounced back in the last five seconds of the half when a faked punt tied the game. The Terriers scored again in the second quarter, and a two-point conversion attempt failed.Bucknell defensive alignment: “If we can be more consistent than we were against Wofford, then we will be tough,” stated Fagg. “But we will definitely have to be more consistent. It killed us last week.” Bucknell leads the series against Davidson 3-1. They will be out to avenge last year's 20-9 loss.

JV Football Alive: The second half should have belonged to the Cats, but a combination of bad breaks and strange field situations broke the Davidson attack. In the final minute of the game, Davidson was trailing 20-17. The Cats drove down to the four-yard line but were unable to move in for a score. On fourth down, Scotty Shipt attempted a pass to Andy Davis in the corner of the end zone, but the pass was intercepted and run back for 102 yards. The Davidson team was able to score on several plays, including a 9-yard run by Dave Henieka.

Davidson Coach Dave Fagg was not pleased with the referees at the game. He had filed a report with the Southern Conference about the quality of the refereeing. Fagg pointed out several instances where the officials had obviously missed calls or taken too long in making a decision. In the third quarter, Davidson punted, and the Wofford player called for a fair catch. He dropped the ball, and Davidson recovered. Davidson was not allowed to keep possession of the ball, however, because after lengthy consultation, the line judge said he inadvertently whistled the ball dead too early. The play was done over, and Wofford kept possession. Fagg said he was disappointed in the performance of the referees and had talked with them personally and with conference officials.

Kittens Meet Furman After Wake: By BOB WETZEL, Staff Writer

Junior varsity football is still alive here at Davidson. Despite recent rumors of the program's collapse, the Kittens will take on Furman’s JVs here today at 2:00 p.m. in one of the first of this Homecoming Weekend's scheduled activities. JV Football has had a rough year at Davidson. Because of the need for numerous freshmen on the varsity ball club, the football office was forced to resort to recruiting volunteers from the student body to fill out the Kitten roster. A number of such volunteers responded, and several have done a good job for the team. Notable among this group are Scott Hall, Glenn Mee, Brad Sebastian, and Mel Cunningham. Freshmen recruits like Joey Trahan, Jim Spears, Bill Winkenwerder, and Marshall Kearns have also turned in some superb performances. Yet the Kittens are winless in two starts and had to forfeit their scheduled game with Wake Forest last weekend. The reason for the forfeit and the team’s poor record thus far seems to be just a simple people shortage. Injuries on both the varsity and JV levels have decimated a squad that was short of bodies at the beginning of the season. Coach Mike Kelly, the Davidson JV commander, remains optimistic about the program in spite of the obvious problems. “We've really been hurt by injuries,” he admitted, “but we should be close to full strength against Furman.” He spelled out the team’s principal dilemma: “Due to our shortage of people, we'll probably have to play guys like John Pushkarich, who is playing in a back-up role on the varsity. Since we're playing at home, we hope we'll get some help from some of the ex-Wildcats on campus. But if we don't, we'll just have to go with what we've got.” Kelly added that he hopes a good crowd is on hand for the contest. “This team (Furman) is closer to our level than Duke or Wake Forest. It's a Southern Conference team, and we're expecting a good game.”