Page Eight November 17, 1972 The Davidsonian

Cagers Looking To Successful Season
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Asst. Sports Editor

“This team is as good a team as we have ever had at Davidson.” Those words may seem a bit presumptuous but to coach Terry Holland, they express the true potential of Wildcat basketball in 1972-73. “We have between eight and ten players who have proven to us that they can play,” pointed out Holland. “All of these boys can score in double figures and have the big game.”

Heading the impressive list of returnees for this season is John Pecorak. The 6-5 senior from Fairfax, Va. will provide the all-around leadership that any team needs. Mike Sorrentino will be the point man for the Wildcats. His invaluable assists, along with his consistent scoring, will be a great asset to the offense. John Falconi has been termed the “next All-American from Davidson” by many pre-season projections. He will provide the big scoring punch for the Cats. The other returning standout is T. J. Pecorak. He will have to carry a good deal of the weight for Davidson this season.

The style of basketball that the Wildcats will initiate this season is markedly similar to the running type employed by Dean Smith's UNC club. There will be a great deal of shuffling of players, using eight to ten men per game. Holland hopes that this aggressive style of play, combined with the usage of so many players, will force the opponents to use an equal number of men. He does not feel that any team the Wildcats play will have an equal amount of depth.

In explaining the style of offense that the Cats will employ, Holland said, “We will play an aggressive fast-break offensive attack. We will have one guard at the point. We have good ball handlers at every position, so anyone can play anywhere. We will not be concerned with people setting up in certain places,” he said.

Holland is understandably pleased with the overall balance of the team. “There is no great scoring or height difference between our players,” Holland explained. “They all fall in the same general category.”

The Wildcat defense will be designed primarily to get the ball for the run-and-shoot offense, according to Holland. “We will be trying to force a bad shot or turnover,” said the former Davidson standout. “We can throw in a little of a full and half court press. There will be some double-teaming and trapping.” The balance of the team and the depth are once again the key factors in the defense. Holland feels that the Wildcats must utilize depth and speed to counteract the big men.

Cager Guards Prefer New Style
By FORD NEWMAN
Staff Writer

“We should be more exciting to watch this year than anytime in a long time,” said John Falconi, starting guard for the Davidson Wildcat basketball team. “This year we'll really make things happen,” added Mike Sorrentino, Falconi's running mate at guard. These two statements describe the new Davidson playing style, fast-break and pressure defense, which is quite different from the old “set it up and work for the good shot” style of last year.

1972-73 CAGE SCHEDULE
Nov. 29 Wofford here
Dec. 2 Clemson Charlotte
5 East Carolina here
9 Princeton Princeton, N. J.
12 Richmond Richmond, Va.
16 Cincinnati Cincinnati, Ohio
19 NC State Charlotte
29-30 Charlotte Invitational Charlotte Tournament
Jan. 3 Wm. & Mary Williamsburg, Va.6 St. Johns Charlotte  
10 Pittsburg Pittsburg, Pa.  
13 South Carolina Columbia, S.C.  
17 Duke Charlotte  
20 Richmond here  
25 Furman Greenville, S.C.  
27 Wake Forest Charlotte  
31 East Carolina Greenville  

Feb.  
3 West Virginia Morgantown, W. Va.  
6 VMI Lexington, Va.  
10 The Citadel here  
12 Furman Charlotte  
15 Appalachian here  
24 Dayton Dayton, Ohio  

March  
1-3 SC Tournament Richmond, Va.  

Reasons for this change cited by the Davidson backcourt men were quickness and depth. "We are a lot better than last year," Falconi said. "The more guys that can play, the more versatile the team will be." Falconi also added that the team is much quicker this year and the quicker a team is, the more they are able to do on the court. Sorrentino agreed that the team is much quicker, but saw the tremendous depth that Davidson has as a possible moral problem. He said that sophomores coming up from last year's freshman team might have to adjust to not starting and should realize that victory is most important.

Both players showed confidence and optimism toward the upcoming season. "We should win the Southern Conference championship," Falconi said. "But it depends on how effectively we can run our style of play." Falconi indicated, for example, that the Furman games depended on whether or not the Wildcats could run against them, wearing their big men down. He said that the Furman games boiled down to contests of quickness versus height. Falconi also added that this year's basketball team was the best since he had been at Davidson. "We should win at least twenty games which should be enough to get us into the national rankings," Falconi said. Sorrentino echoed these sentiments by saying the team could beat anybody on the schedule.

"We will try to make them use up a large amount of energy getting the ball up court to their big man," he stated. "That will also increase the number of mistakes that they will be likely to make."

Turning to the matter of the schedule, Holland became more serious and frank. "We have really got a tough and challenging slate of games," he said. "December will tell the story for us," explained Holland. "We have tough games at home and away. We could play excellent ball through December and still have only a break-even record." That December alignment includes Charlotte contests against Clemson and N.C. State, along with the Charlotte Invitational, plus away trips to Richmond, Princeton, and Cincinnati, and a big conference encounter with East Carolina in Johnston Gym.

Even though he does not think that the 1972-73 version of Wildcat basketball will produce anyone of the same caliber as former All-Americans Fred Hetzel, Dick Snyder, and Mike Maloy, Holland considers this team the best. "Team is the key word here," he commented. "We have a great group of guys, who play a very unselfish style of basketball. Whether the record will show that, I really do not know."

Holland feels that there are two factors which will constitute the primary influence on the success of this year's team. First, the Cats will have to be able to effectively stop the big men. Secondly, the Wildcats must make the most out of their exceptional depth. "Our sixth, seventh, eighth, and even ninth men will mean more to us than to any other team," Holland pointed out. "We must use this to our advantage, and also to our opponents' disadvantage."

---

'RUN AND SHOOT'  
John Falconi works around defender Jim Lowry.