Page Twelve
October 20, 1972

Friday, October 20
Indochina 8 and 10 p.m. Movie

Saturday, October 21
8:30 a.m. Law School Admissions Test
8 and 10 p.m. Movie: "Red Sky at Morning"

Monday, October 23
8 p.m. Allen Ginsberg

Wednesday, October 25
All day ROTC Blood Drive

Thursday, October 26
All day Artist Series
8:15 p.m. Artist Series: Fine Film: "East of Eden" Love Auditorium

Friday, October 27
12 p.m. Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Arthur Galston: "Resistance to Knowledge"
8 p.m. Student Poetry Forum Love Auditorium

Saturday, October 28
10 a.m. Arthur Galston: "Ecocide in Indochina" Dana Science
12, 2, and 4 p.m. Film: "Monroe" Theater of the Deaf
5 p.m. Hospitality Hour
6 p.m. Testimonial Dinner for "Cop" Linker
8 p.m. Concert: Charlie Byrd Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Sox Hop: Sugar Creek Johnston Gym
Class Reunion Planning Session Martin Room
9 a.m. Homecoming Registration Chambers Foyer
10:15 a.m. Dedication of Dining Facilities Chambers Dining Hall
10:30 a.m. Wildcat Club Meeting Morrison Room
11 a.m. Homecoming Luncheon Chambers Dining Hall
4:30 p.m. Post-Football Game Reception President's Home

Sox Hop, Guitarist Highlight Homecoming Next Weekend
By HARRIETT HODGES
Staff Writer

Homecoming Weekend promises to be filled with activities to suit everyone's tastes, according to Jim Campbell, social chairman. The festivities
will begin at 3 p.m. Friday afternoon with the soccer game against Belmont Abbey. At 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium,
Charlie Byrd, jazz guitarist, and his band will present a concert. "Byrd has been here in the past and was
well received," Campbell said. "His music is mellow and melodic, and he plays jazz compositions of many contemporary songs."

After the concert, there will be a Sox Hop in Johnston Gym at 10 p.m. This will be a 50's
style dance featuring Sugar Creek playing rock and roll music. "The dance will be a sox hop so everyone will
have to leave their shoes outside the gym," Campbell said. "We hope everyone will put on their bobby socks and
their white socks." The Union would give a free keg of beer to the organization sponsoring the best dressed 50's
couple.

Also Friday night, there will be a showing of "The Diary of a Mad Housewife" with Carrie Snodgrass. It will
be shown in...

Blacks Present Grievances
(Continued From p. 1)

"If Davidson cannot make a real commitment to black students there is no need for us to be here," said
Gibson. "Some of our proposals include things that were promised to us my freshman year, but they have not been
acted on. We are tired of empty promises. We want action." Gibson said he did not expect all the proposals
to be met within a month, but he and other blacks believe the college can move positively in the direction
of meeting them.

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan disputes Gibson's assertion that nothing has been done to implement the 10
proposals. He cited the hiring of a black admissions officer, the hiring of another black secretary, and...Comprehensive review of the
library's holdings about blacks. He also said a report on the status of blacks at Davidson was presented to the
faculty this fall, and other action is being taken to implement the proposals which were first presented in April. Other
changes called for by the BSC include the incorporation of material about blacks in the curriculum, especially in sociology, psychology,
economics, political science, history, religion, English, humanities, and pre-medicine. Also sought is a more complete collection of books and materials
in the library relating to the “black experience.” An exchange program with black colleges is sought, and according to the
BSC, Fisk University, Howard University, and Morehouse College presently have exchange programs with predominantly white Northern colleges.

The BSC wants 10 percent of the coeds to be black. There are presently no black coeds at Davidson. Blacks
are also seeking larger facilities to house the BSC since the number of black students has increased. Another proposal is
that the College Union enter into a cooperative program with area black colleges to meet the social needs of black
students.

The petition states, “The Coalition believes that these proposals are realistic and minimal for a meaningful and healthy educational experience
at Davidson. We further maintain that Davidson College can show a real and meaningful commitment to the Black students through
these proposals.”

Cornelius, N.C.

NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING
“We Rent Tux”
Phone 892-8064

Bantam Chef Special Of The Week
Large Cheeseburger
French Fries
Vanilla or Chocolate Shake
For ¢

Fresh - Hot Quick Foods
Good Tues., Wed., and Thurs.

Perkins Auditorium at 10:30 p.m. Breakfast will be served at Richard's House beginning at 2 a.m. Also at this time
will be a showing of various comedy shorts in Pika house. These will include W.C. Fields, Laurel and Hardy, and
others. Campbell urged everyone to bring “their blankets and pillows” for the show.

Saturday's activities start with the rugby game in the morning. The football game with Bucknell will begin at 2 p.m.
At 4:30 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium, there will be another showing of “The Diary of a Mad Housewife.” The Homecoming
Festivities will conclude with a concert by Boz Scaggs and his band in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. Scaggs and
his back-up men playing guitar, bass, saxophone, organ, and grand piano will create a blend of rock, blues, jazz, and
country and western. In a recent “Rolling Stone” article, Scaggs, former lead guitarist with the Steve Miller Band, was called
“one of the best singers and songwriters around today...a man with a very special kind of dedication to music, something
you don't find in every hit artist.”

The Homecoming festivities will conclude with a religious service in the Union at 2 a.m. presented by the YMCA.

170 N. Main

Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.

THE HUB
OPEN: Mon. - Fri. 9 - 5:30
Sat. 9-1

Come browse and see our turtles, vests, jeans, and boots. Use your automatic charge account.

Join Maka Son In Mooresville ... Only 6 miles north
