Up n Coming:

Friday, September 29
8 and 10 p.m. Movie: "Le Mans" Love Auditorium

Saturday, September 30
1:30 p.m. Beer Party Baseball Field
8 and 10 p.m. Movie: "Le Mans" Love Auditorium

Sunday, October 1
7:40 Activities Fair

Monday, October 2
10 a.m. Piedmont Lecturer: Richard Carrigan, "Vistas for Adventure in the 20th Century"

Tuesday, October 3
Howard Eves: 7 and 9 p.m. Movie: "Zeppelin"

Wednesday, October 4
7 and 9 p.m. Movie: "Zeppelin"

Thursday, October 5
8 p.m. Fine Film: "Beauty and the Beast"

Friday, October 6
8 and 10 p.m. Movie: "Petulia"

Saturday, October 7
3 p.m. Poet: Eugene Platt
3:30 p.m. Coffee: Howard Eves
4 p.m. Piedmont Lecturer: "A Divine Tortoise, A Wandering Knight, and Artists"
8 p.m. Poet: Eugene Platt

Monday, October 9
10 a.m. Piedmont Lecturer: Howard Eves: "An Unusual Algebra with a Geometric Application"
3 p.m. Reynolds Lecturer: Carl Rowan
8 p.m. Reynolds Lecturer: Carl Rowan

Tuesday, October 10
10 a.m. Reynolds Lecturer: Carl Rowan

All day Lakeside Art Exhibit

*Petulia* Love Auditorium
114 Dana Science Morrison Room
Love Auditorium
Cunningham Fine Arts
Love Auditorium
Love Auditorium
Stowe Galleries

Coordinated Art Exhibitions
By JOHN CASSELS, Staff Writer

Throughout the 1972-73 school year, the Davidson College Fine Arts Department will sponsor a coordinated series of art exhibitions in
the Stowe Galleries of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. Presently showing in the galleries is Sally Villas’ exhibition of paintings
and graphics. The show will run until Oct. 6. Miss Villas has recently been an instructor at Chapel Hill.

Philip Mullen will present a show of his drawings beginning Oct. 9 and running through Oct. 28. Some of his
works are presently traveling in the 1971 “Drawings USA" and “Contemporary American Drawings.”

Virginia Commonwealth University’s James Bumgardner is featured with a show of paintings and drawings on Nov. 6. Bumgardner says his
works contain “rooms of water and rooms of panoramic lunar landscapes.”

An exhibition of sculpture by John T. Acorn will run from Nov. 27 until Jan. 12. Acorn is a former
Fulbright scholar and presently teaches at the College of Architecture, Clemson University.

Davidson's own Frank W. Bliss, professor of English, will show photographs of India from Jan. 17 to Feb. 2. The
photographs were taken during a year of teaching as a Fulbright Visiting Professor of American Literature at the University of
Poona in India.

Jim McCormic will show drawings, prints, and sculptures from Feb. 7 to Feb. 28. McCormic is Professor of Art at
the University of Nevada. He has oriented his most recent work toward the mining interests of his western home.

The Second Davidson National, an annual competitive exhibition of the finest prints and drawings from the United States, will be
held from March 25 to April 29.

A Student Show will begin on May 7 with the showing of experimental films.

Barr Joins Admissions Staff As First Black Counselor
By ALAN FORD, Staff Writer

Larry J. Barr, a ‘72 graduate of Dartmouth College, has been named as a new admissions counselor. He is the
first black to hold this position at Davidson.

Barr grew up in Charleston, S.C. where he began his high school career. He finished high school at the Tabor
Academy in Massachusetts. He then enrolled at Dartmouth. During his four years at Dartmouth, Barr was the recipient of several
awards. He was a member of a senior honor society.society, the executive committee of his class, and Dartmouth's Afro-American society.
Upon graduation, Barr was offered one of eight general graduate study fellowships given by Dartmouth. Barr raises to four the
number of "professional" people employed by Davidson in the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid, according to H. Edmunds White,
admissions director. Barr's job as admissions counselor will include interviewing students who come to visit Davidson as well as visiting
schools that are located some distance from Davidson.

Rowan To Speak On Fall Elections

Nationally syndicated newspaper columnist Carl T. Rowan will discuss the coming national elections in his Reynolds Lectures Oct. 4-5 in
Love Auditorium. Rowan, former director of the U.S. Information Agency and winner of more than a dozen journalism awards, will
discuss: "The Nixon Record And the McGovern Challenge" at 3 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 4; "The Fall Elections and America's Future:
Are We Moving to the Right?" at 8 p.m. Wednesday; and "The Racial Factor in Presidential Politics" at 10 a.m.
Thursday, Oct. 5. He will also meet with students and several classes during his two-day visit.

Rowan was deputy assistant secretary of State for public affairs in 1961-63 and U.S. Ambassador to Finland in 1963-64. After
serving a year as director of USIA, he became a columnist and still serves in that capacity. He has written
several books, including "South of Freedom," "The Pitiful and the Proud," "Go South to Sorrow," and "Wait Till New Year."
He is a graduate of Oberlin (A.B., mathematics) and the University of Minnesota (M.A., journalism).

Kresge Gives Grant

Davidson College will receive a $300,000 grant from the Kresge Foundation of Birmingham, Mich., for its new E. H. Little
Library if the remaining funds for the building are raised within one year. "With this most recent gift from Kresge,
we now have a total of $3 million in cash and pledges for our $4.2 million library," said Donald Winston,
director of development at Davidson. "Their requirement that we raise the remaining $1.2 million by June 15, 1973, one year
before the building's completion, is a challenge for all of us. The fact that a contract for the building has
been let and construction has begun indicates our confidence that we can meet these goals with the continuing help and
loyal support of everyone interested in Davidson."

The library will be named for E. H. Little of New York City, who grew up near Davidson and became
board chairman and chief executive officer of the Colgate Palmolive Company. Little is a former chairman of Davidson's Board of
Visitors and an honorary alumnus as an LL.D. recipient. He has given Davidson $1 million for its library on the
condition that it raise the remaining funds before the building is completed. The Kresge Foundation, since its incorporation in 1924,
has given some $110 million to educational, cultural, and health-care institutions.

YERMA

Garcia Lorca's play, "YERMA," will be presented in the EISENHOWER Theatre at the Kennedy Center, Washington D.C., from Oct. 9-14.
It will be given in Spanish. Prices for tickets will range from $3 to $9 but students will be able
to purchase tickets at a 50 percent discount. If a large enough group shows interest in attending the play, investigations
will be made concerning group transport. Interested persons should contact Professor Lois A. Kemp at her office, 303 Chambers.

SGA Elections

The following SGA offices will be filled by election on October 10th:

- Residence Hall District Senators -- 1 by and from each district
- Conduct Council -- 2 members to be elected by the SGA from the Junior and Senior Classes
- Freshman Senators -- 3 elected at-large by and from the Freshman Class
- Freshman Cheerleader -- 1 to be elected by and from the Freshman Class

The following is a list of the 1972-73 Residence Hall Districts:

- District 1 -- 1st and 2nd Floors of Little Hall and Grey House
- District 2 -- 3rd and 4th Floors of Little Hall and the North Main House
- District 3 -- Watts Hall and the East Wing of the 2nd floor of Belk Hall
- District 4 -- Belk Hall except the East Wing of the 2nd floor (3 Senators to be elected)
- District 5 -- Cannon Hall
- District 6 -- Sentelle Hall
- District 7 -- Duke Hall
- District 8 -- Richardson Hall
- District 9 -- Off-Campus Students

The polls will be open on October 10th from 8:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. in the lobby of Chambers and in the
Post Office. In order to qualify, persons must sign such a statement in the Dean of Students’ Office prior to
October 5th.
