outside perspective
By LEX VEAZEY

Counseling Service Active At UNC

The Human Sexuality Information and Counseling Service at the University of North Carolina has reported that it handled more than
1,000 cases during its first year of operation. Contraception information and referral was the most common type of case. Other
common cases were pregnancy information and referral, abortion referral, physiology and sexual variations, and research and interpersonal relations. Though the
service averaged seven cases a day during its first four weeks of operation, it was averaging over fourteen cases daily
during the last four weeks of operation. Three-fourths of the cases were handled by phone; only one-fourth in person.

Bikes Cycle Onto Many Campuses

The Bicycle Club of Chapel Hill has found great popularity with UNC students. The club, dedicated to the proposition that
bicycles should be at least equal to cars as a means of transportation and recreation, has various plans to try
to make area natives bicycle-conscious. Along with the Chapel Hill club, several bike clubs at other colleges in the Chapel
Hill area are helping to sponsor the Triangle Century Ride, an annual hundred-mile bicycling event.

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

“Pioneers Of Modern Painting,” a film series sequel to the “Civilization” series, will begin this Sunday at 8:15 p.m. in
Dana Auditorium at Queens College. The six films will be shown on successive Sundays and repeated on Mondays. There is
no admission charge.

The Kino Fine Film series begins Oct. 1 in the Golden Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum of Art. This
year “Shame,” “The Organizer,” and “Diamonds Of The Night” are included in the seven-film series. Admission is by season ticket
only. Tickets are on sale at the Mint for $6.

Entertainment

“The Odd Couple,” Neil Simon's hit play, continues at the Pineville Dinner Theatre through Oct. 1. The buffet opens at
7 p.m. with the curtain rising at 8:30 p.m. Tickets range from $7.50 to $10, depending on the night of
the week.

“Glimpses Into The Orient” will showcase paintings, sculpture, furniture, ceramics, graphics, and decorative objects at the Mint Museum of Art
through Christmas. There is no admission charge.

“Anniversary Waltz,” a play by Chodorov and Fields, begins Thursday at the Charlotte Little Theatre. Shows are at 8:30 p.m.
Sept. 28, 29, 30, Oct. 5, 6 and 7, and at 2:30 p.m. Oct. 1. Student tickets are $1.

a report from the editor

Davidsonian Undergoes A Facelift

NSA Calls For Unionization, Faces Apathy, Fatigue of '70s

From: THE CHRONICLE

The way many student leaders were talking at the 25th annual congress of the National Student Association in August, an
outside observer could almost be persuaded that the recent push for student power in this country had never taken place.

“These people are numb,” a delegate from the University of Nebraska said about his fellow students back home. “They don’t
care what happens. You could drop a bomb on the school, and if they didn't get hit by a piece
of it they just wouldn't care.”

“How do you get people motivated?” a student from Georgetown University asked a workshop leader early in the week-long congress
at Catholic University. If tuition goes up, said a delegate from Illinois, “there’s passive acceptance” among the students. “They’re not
going to fight it.”

“I find myself fighting every day,” another student government leader remarked. “The biggest thing I'm fighting is student apathy.”

Such comments were fairly representative of the mood of the congress, which drew some 570 delegates and alternates from about
180 of the NSA’s 500 member colleges and universities. Except for an election-night uproar over the defeat of a black
woman candidate for president, the delegates were mostly subdued. One of them put it, “The fatigue of the '70s has
set in.”

The delegates were not unconcerned about questions of power, but many seemed to regard it as uncharted territory and were
unsure of what tactics to use in seeking it. Even a hastily organized radical caucus, which attracted about 50 people
to its initial rap session, failed to sustain much interest or exert much influence over the convention as a whole.

As usual, there was no lack of issues at the congress. In dozens of workshops and informal gatherings throughout the
week, participants discussed everything from minority rights, rights for homosexual students, and the war, to student cooperatives, educational reform, and
the new higher education act.

Reaffirming a stand taken at last year's conference, but not yet put into effect, the delegates voted to give the
development of a national student union a top priority in 1972-73. The idea of the union is to involve students
more directly in collective campaigns and to build an economic base, through student-run enterprises, for continuous political action.

The efforts to enlarge the NSA's grassroots support were due in part to a continuing struggle by the association to
free itself of a substantial debt incurred several years ago in the wake of revelations that it had been receiving
covert funding from the Central Intelligence Agency. The association expects to retire the debt in the coming year. In the
past twelve months, however, financial considerations have prevented it from fulfilling many of the mandates of the previous convention. In
addition, many regional leaders were said to have vanished after the (1971) congress, “never to be heard from again.” Meanwhile,
dues collections from constituent student governments have been slow. One candidate for NSA president this year asserted that 80 percent
of the member campuses had not paid their dues.

Against this background, the incoming leadership of the NSA expects to be limited in itsEfforts to improve local organizing are
hindered by a continuing need to raise funds. Delegates here disagreed about whether the union idea should go beyond providing
goods and services and enter the realm of political action. Some student leaders who said they supported the union move
also said they regarded the NSA as organizationally ineffective, irrelevant to local student interests, or “too political already.”

“I think it’s a lousy organization,” said a student from New York City. “It should stick to student services.”

Water Fights Cause Work

To the Editor:

That was some water fight we had the other night, wasn’t it? The concept behind such a fight is excellent—a
comparatively harmless way of relieving tension that naturally builds up here at Davidson. That concludes the merit of the fight.
What kind of tension could have built up in only two days? What’s going to happen to you in six
weeks? And what about the mess?

The fight would have been fine if it had been held outside, or even if those involved had assumed responsibility
for cleaning up afterward. As it was, the new janitorial staff—a part of the Davidson community that we too often
neglect—was overburdened by the freshman dorms. In such a case, normal routines are curtailed, and the mess is cleaned up.
Thus, for instance, a fight in Cannon and Sentelle means that the bathrooms in Belk may have to be left
dirty. Sure, I understand that you just came from a hometown high school environment, but such inconsideration is still uncalled
for. Water fights will be blessed events in the future if they are held outside, and I’ll look forward to
being right in there with my big green bucket.

Woody Connette ‘74
Davidson College

By RICH WILSON
Editor-in-Chief

After years of suffering with black blobs for pictures and the same old thing in physical appearance, THE DAVIDSONIAN is
undergoing a facelift. Beginning with this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN will shift from a letterpress method of printing to offset. Gone
are the days when staff members spent all Thursday afternoon setting headlines. Gone are the days when editors burnt themselves
on pieces of hot lead. Our copy will now be set by computer in cold type, which is then pasted
up on layout sheets. These paste-ups are photographed, and the negative is used to burn impressions into metal plates to
be used on the press. The actual composition of the paper will still be completed at the print shop in
the Mecklenburg Gazette, but the printing of the paper will be done on the offset press of the Mooresville Tribune.

The advantages of offset are numerous. It will enable us to do more creative things in layout and advertisements. Since
pictures will reproduce clearly, you will see increased use of photography in the paper. In the long run, offset should
also be much cheaper than letterpress once the transformation is complete, and we hope it will be less time-consuming and
cumbersome to work with. The offset process has been developed in the last two decades, and most papers have found
it a more efficient method of printing. But offset is also a complicated process and one with which many Davidsonian
editors are unfamiliar. We hope you will bear with us until we can master the technique. No doubt we will
experiment with different styles of layout, and we hope you will let us know what you like and what you
don’t like.

The method of printing, however, is not the only facelift THE DAVIDSONIAN will receive. Beginning next week, we hope to
expand the paper to 12 pages weekly. This will enable us to widen our coverage and to better serve the
interests of the community. We hope to introduce a page entirely devoted to entertainment and the arts in the near
future. Since many feel that the Davidson student is not as educated in the arts as he should be, we
believe this is one contribution THE DAVIDSONIAN can make so that students are aware of what cultural events are happening.

Next week, Business Manager Whit Whitworth will inaugurate the largest advertising campaign THE DAVIDSONIAN has ever waged. With the increased
revenue, we hope we can lessen the amount that the paper receives from the student activities fee. Before school opened,
we ran subscription campaigns directed toward parents of Davidson students. The response exceeded our wildest imaginings. We have increased the
number of subscriptions by 50 percent, and we still are receiving $5 checks.

During the first term this year, we also hope to compile a clip file of all articles that have appeared
in THE DAVIDSONIAN in the recent past. Since THE DAVIDSONIAN has never been indexed, such a file is invaluable for
putting issues in their perspective, and once this file is completed, we shall open it up for student and faculty
use. We believe that campus issues should be argued from a basis of fact, not from memory. We remind students
and faculty alike, as well as administrators, that a guest column is available for those who have something more to
say than would be appropriate in a letter. If you have a desire to write such a column, please contact
the editor.

The upcoming academic year looks to be an exciting one. We hope that all members of the academic community will
join us each week in the pages of THE DAVIDSONIAN. We are open to suggestions from anyone in the community,
and we hope that freshmen and upperclassmen will take the opportunity to join the staff at Sunday night’s meeting at
9:30 p.m. in THE DAVIDSONIAN offices.
