The Davidsonian

May 5, 1972

Page Eleven

F&M Takes Undisputed IMAC Lead

By CHARLIE SLAGLE and RICK HUSSIAN
Staff Writers

The overall point totals have been calculated including the results of volleyball action.

F&M, the flickerball, wrestling, swimming, and golf champions, is leading the standings by an overwhelming margin.

They have amassed 902.20 points followed by PDT (697.48) and the SPE’s (692.90).

From the new social system have emerged the fourth and fifth teams, PAX (565.90) and Emanon (547.18).

The SAE’s (515.90), BTP (477.40), Watts II (438.80), the only freshman team to capture an intramural championship, Cannon II (401.46),
and Sentelle I (381.06) complete the top ten.

No track meet will be held to affect the standings, and after tennis and softball finals, little change in the
top five is expected. F&M will only increase its lead since they are in the finals in both sports.

Tennis tournament play which began this week includes only six teams, two from each league. This small number was chosen
since many matches were not reported.

The SPE’s and F&M received byes in first-round action due to their 7-0 records while Gordon’s faced PAX I. In
that match, Charlie Slagle and Steve Earp (PAX I) defeated Tim Winter and Alex Gordon, respectively. The Faculty has already
beaten the ATO’s to advance to the semifinals.

This match was forced into doubles because of split wins in singles competition. H. Edmunds White beat Doug Berry while
Charlie Summers defeated Benjamin Klein.

The finals were scheduled for yesterday on the varsity courts but will now probably be held on Monday.

In softball, League A is dominated by the Betas (8-1) and the Delt’s (7-2). These two teams are assured of
tournament spots whereas the other two spots are still not designated.

Three teams, the ATO’s, Our Boys Gang, and PAX I all have 6-3 records. A play-off will be held for
the remaining slots.

Watts II, in contention for a slot until yesterday, was upset by Emanon and cannot be considered for the tournament.

The play-off positions in League B have already been decided. F&M leads the pack with an 8-1 record with Hurtin’
Herd, the Pikas, and Staten Island Ferries ending regular season play at 7-2.

With intramural activity winding down for this year, new officers have already been elected for next year’s Intramural Activities Council.

The new president will be Dave Griffiths, with Calvin Allen as vice president and Bob Newman the secretary.

We’re doing away with the board plan. In its place, we’re gonna use a new kind of money. It'll give
you complete flexibility just like real money. And you'll always be certain of your next meal, like with the board
plan. For us, the new money means better budgeting. See, we'll know how much money is circulating and how much
we can spend. So we won’t be buying food you won’t be buying.

And since we'll be able to make better buys, you'll get better buys too. Which means 6-ounce steaks could be
8-ouncers. And along with the unlimited seconds at our line buffeteria, we'll throw in a 10% discount when you buy
with our money instead of the government’s.

Davidson Dining Service
