x HOWARD RAMAGLI The Davidsonian April 7, 1972 Page Nine

Like Tom Sawyer and his friends, Davidson College and its constituents are very successful at whitewashing. They are able to give just about every student and his values a nice thick coating of white middle-class America. But this effective whitewash is not taking too well on a certain portion of the student population.

The needs of Davidson's black minority students have been apparently purposely neglected. No one has asked them if their social needs were wanting. No one has asked them if it would help if there were a black man in a position of power. No one has asked them if black professors might be able to help them more at a time when they might need a little counseling.

From the time these men set foot on this campus, they are turned loose by the admissions office and promptly forgotten. They are left without counsel, without help, and without a semblance of understanding of what they will go through in the following months. Davidson’s total awareness of the black culture may well fit on the point of a pin. It’s awareness that is not aware is even less.

The best illustration I can think of for this is the Vinnie Burrows presentation on black awareness, which was attended by more students from Johnson C. Smith than from Davidson. Times may change even Davidson. The admissions office, through the workHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Of a recruiter at > eh od Cosaimg Prompts New, Ruicwi grossly misinterpreted your Committee's request. Dean vork ou’ the program in the story. Vel d Ssunse was cheai- I concern. By far the: pel coneet was to minimize the likelihood that a student would accidentally give another student an unfair advantage on an exam. To put the problem in perspective, it may interest your readers to know that many years with a much longer tradition of self-scheduled exams, Davidson College considers it necessary before each exam period to mount a serious educational campaign to remind students of the risk of careless accidents of information differing from cheating. It casts no reflection on the discoverer's integrity. I regret very much that so pejorative a term as cheating ever entered this discussion.

Locke White
Davidson College

To the Editor:

If someone could please let me know why I should spend $4 a week next year to have my laundry done, I sure would appreciate it. Every time I go into the laundry there is someone sitting around knitting a sweater or C. W. Stacks is joking around with one of the work-study students. Sitting around is O.K. with me, but not at $4 a week. Why don’t they just get rid of the laundry and let everyone have the pleasure of getting their laundry done off-campus? It makes me sick to think of wasting so much money when I could be buying books.

Jim Jernigan ‘75
Davidson College

Schools Move Toward Fast Doctors

Almost a third of the country’s medical schools have adopted programs that allow students to earn their M.D. degree in less than the usual four years. Many other medical schools are considering programs that would cut their programs to three or three and a half years. Various sources have stimulated the medical schools to produce doctors more quickly. Several national organizations have recommended a reduction in the training time. New federal legislation has promised financial premiums to medical schools that produce doctors faster. Many medical educators feel that training programs should not be prescribed uniformly for all students. Since some students enter medical school much more prepared than others and since some students learn much faster than others, these educators have recommended that the M.D. degree be made more flexible.

Colleges Abolish Requirements

Several colleges have abolished course requirements for graduation. Ursuline College has dropped all course requirements except one interdisciplinary course per semester. Regis College in Massachusetts has abolished specific course requirements for the bachelor’s degree. York University has decided to offer a degree program that requires no major and for which only one-third of a student's workload must consist of regular courses. The rest may be individual projects.

Job Offers For Graduates Trail ‘71 Pace

In a survey of 139 representative colleges and universities, the College Placement Council has found that job offers at the bachelor’s level are four percent lower than at this point in 1971. The same survey points to a brighter outlook for holders of advanced degrees. Job offers are 36 percent ahead of last year’s pace at the doctoral level and 18 percent ahead at the master’s level.

Michigan Ends Coed Rooms

Twenty-nine University of Michigan students have ended a three-week experiment in living with roommates of the opposite sex. Residents of the off-campus house had begun the experiment to find ways to break down barriers between the sexes. They complained that the publicity the experiment had drawn was unbearable.