—— aa Che Bauidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
Marshall McLuhan

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Soccer Needs More Support

To the Editor:

In the past several years college athletic programs have come under close scrutiny by students, faculty, and the NCAA. Davidson is beginning to follow this same trend as witnessed by the recent discussions on subsidized football. In light of this searching for new athletic priorities, the Soccer Team wishes to make its position clear.

Since the mid-30’s Davidson Soccer has been a second-rate sport enjoyed by those who happened upon the game. In the last several years, however, interest nationwide has been snowballing and local fan and student participation has netted consecutive Southern Conference Championships. More and more players from all sections of the country and the world are enjoying the Soccer Club and Varsity Team. We feel that some definite attempts should be made to strengthen and encourage soccer as a part of our complete athletic program.

In the past, members of the varsity could not even check out soccer balls or even have decent goals to shoot at. It was not until P.E. Soccer was offered this spring that our portable goals were made available. We hope that the Athletic Department will give all sports due consideration in a concern for the future of Davidson athletics.

PAGE TWO APRIL 21, 1972

Beautification Shows Pride

Spring has not only brought the dogwoods out in full bloom, but it has also ushered in some horticultural additions to the grounds of the college. One cannot help but notice the trees, flowers, and shrubbery which have appeared suddenly on campus. These new additions are due in part to the plans of the landscape architectural firm of Umberto Innocenti—Richard K. Webel of Long Island, New York, which is doing the landscaping plan for the new library. This firm made the decision on the location of the newly planted oaks and maples in the front campus.

According to director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr., Dutch Elm disease has taken its toll on campus in the past few years, making it necessary to plant new trees. Also, a snowstorm in the recent past caused $5,000 worth of damage to the grounds, and the grounds crew attempted to save the trees damaged by the snowstorm. However, a number of them were lost. The 20 trees which have been planted so far to replace the elms which were diseased or destroyed will be augmented by the planting of other trees when the comprehensive landscape design of Innocenti-Webel is completed.

Another unusual feature of this year’s spring at Davidson which deserves commendation is the sudden appearance of transplanted flowers at strategic locations throughout the campus. Unfortunately, the unseasonably cold weather killed some of them, but others survived to add to the pleasing appearance of the campus. It is refreshing that someone in the administration such as Meetze has had the vision to plan for the future. The improvements being made are a praiseworthy attempt to preserve a natural environment for the future. The upkeep of the grounds may appear to some to be of minor importance, but we would like to think that well-kept grounds are an indication of an institution’s pride in itself. Spring has come with its new life and hope for the future.

A Housing Disgrace

The married student housing situation at Davidson is deplorable. At the present time, there are only between four and eight college-owned units available for rent by married students. Not only are some of these units a considerable distance from the college proper, but the condition of the houses themselves could at best be termed ramshackle.

Several student-initiated studies have strongly revealed the need for more and better housing. In 1968, Phil Hazel presented a study which stated that the location of married student housing could determine whether or not a couple could achieve any meaningful relationship with the college or with friends. In a report to the Senate in 1970, Tom Robertson advocated that the college provide land and build an apartment complex to house married couples. And finally, last fall, Michael Johnson compiled a report concluding that there “exists a demand for 15 or 20 new units” in close proximity to the campus if possible.

Despite these studies, the college has not even issued a policy statement as to its responsibility to the married student. The administration seems to be very leery of committing itself to building any housing because the financial prospects seem rather bleak now. But certainly, there are other avenues open to improve the situation. Every effort could be made on the part of the administration to encourage private investors to build an apartment complex. Even if the rent is higher than that presently being paid by married students, there seems to be a willingness on the part of many to pay a higher rent in return for better facilities.

Both Will Terry and Director of Housing Scotty Nicholls have expressed approval of the construction of houses by private investors, with the stipulation that such housing be accorded only to Davidson students. This problem arises because some investors might like to rent such units to others besides Davidson students. We feel that the college could work out an agreement with these people to guarantee that Davidson couples would occupy a given number of houses every year, so that the investor would not lose money from unrented apartments.

However, Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell has indicated that the college will take no action in the next two years as far as building is concerned. This would be a tragic mistake. The college should assume responsibility to make some decision to improve the plight of the married student. The administration has waited long enough.Goals were again set up. Only small, rubber kickballs can be checked out from Junior B. Even though the Varsity slaughtered numerous teams this year, our new schedule has been weakened. Instead of pushing for some good games with North Carolina, we added High Point. The Athletic Department has allowed disgraceful referees to continually officiate home games. In fact, a strong push is needed now by a leading school to keep the soccer portion of the Southern Conference from collapsing. A lot of turmoil has been stirred up in the past several months over our coaching situation. For a while Coach Fogleman was undecided about returning as coach next year, now he feels capable of assuming those responsibilities. With some hard work we all feel we will be a force to contend with next year. However, it is obvious that Coach Fogleman will probably step down in a year or so. The Soccer Team feels that the Athletic Department should begin now to seek out a qualified soccer coach instead of giving someone already in the department that added task. A combination soccer-track coach seems a very likely possibility as Coach Whittle retires. We want soccer to keep on building into a fine, successful sport instead of stagnating in its present condition. We are on the verge of real national competition and recognition, let's get it. Naturally, the Soccer Team encourages further discussion of the future of sports. It seems much more realistic for a small school to participate and emphasize the sports of which it is capable of carrying. We ask that the Faculty Committee on Athletics make some positive goals for Davidson athletics to obtain. And we ask that our total athletic program.

The Davidson College Soccer Team

To the Editor:

This is in reply to Mr. E. P. Thornton’s letter in the 31 March DAVIDSONIAN. He asks us to envision Davidson as the world divided between the aggressive “Communists” and the “bare-breasted passive peaceniks.” Given this division he then describes the passive downfall of the latter group. Unfortunately, I find several fallacies in his proposal to correct the direction of the society. He states that “the ‘master and slave’ faction would be heavily armed...” and use this armament to subdue their opponents and control their thoughts. Five paragraphs later however, he reminds us that David, or the “good Christian faction... must likewise be armed since their peace symbol will afford them no protection.” Mr. Thornton questions that their peace symbol would succeed in shaming their aggressors into permitting their life. Maybe it won't shame them but it sure will confuse them. I cite the personal example of being once accosted by a motorcycle gang. When they told me to give them my money outside and offering them what help I could, outside of being their victim. They scratched their heads and went off disgusted. Maybe “bare hands will not prevail against knives and guns,” but who said anything about using bare hands as a weapon? I want no weapon other than love. With that alone I will walk at night through neighborhoods that others detour while driving. You also state that “an atheist cannot follow a Christian example.” This may be true if the example were solely Christian. However, many tenets of Christianity are humanistic examples that existed before and in other cultures than Christianity; even some you would call “atheistic.” I have even publicly advocated total and unconditional American military withdrawal from Southeast Asia. I have done this because all people deserve freedom. Yes, even though some analysts say that our withdrawal may delay their obtaining the freedom to choose their political, economic, or social system, I advocate it. I do so because to choose their life they must first have the freedom to live. We are denying them this freedom every day.

Bill Barnes ‘74
Davidson College

By LEX VEAZEY

Erich Segal Denied Tenure

Erich Segal, the author of the best-selling novel “Love Story” has been denied tenure as a professor of classical literature at Yale University because of his many outside interests. Instead, Segal has been offered a senior lectureship which university officials said would be “less restrictive” on his time. Segal has been the subject of dispute at Yale since his novel “Love Story” became one of the most extraordinary publishing and motion-picture successes in history. His lifestyle changed from that of a popular teacher to an international figure. One Yale faculty member said that “the interest in Segal seems rather ghoulish to me; I just wish they’d leave the poor guy alone.”

N. C. Students Seek Legal Aid

A proposal for a legal defense corporation for students comprised of the 16 N. C. state-supported colleges and universities was recently presented to the student body presidents of these colleges at a conference at N. C. State University. Since state laws prohibit the hiring of lawyers by student governments, it is necessary to establish the corporation. If formed, the legal defense corporation will be a large-scale model of the corporation now at N. C. State. This corporation was founded under the principle that student government should do any and everything possible to protect the rights and well-being of the student body.

Students Organize Food Services Program

A student-operated food service program at the University of Connecticut appears to be a great success. The non-profit $2.5 million-a-year operation is called the Associated Student Commissaries (ASC). It provides two million meals annually for more than 4,000 students. It employs 140 full-time and 700 part-time workers. Undergraduates in 58 dormitories delegate the management of their kitchens to the ASC which hires a chef, buys the food, provides dietary supervision, ensures quality control, maintains records, and trains food handlers.