THE FIRST OF MANY (Staff photos by Frye) Ray Swetenburg takes his first of 25½ points in the Davidson Relays.

Swetenburg Paces Runners To Third Place In Relays
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

It has often been said that track at Davidson can be boiled down to Ray Swetenburg. Last weekend Swetenburg proved this dramatically by scoring 25½ points in the Davidson relays and leading the Cats to a third place in the relays. In the process, Swetenburg also added another mark to his string of records. Swetenburg now holds Davidson records in the triple jump, the high hurdles, most points in one meet, most points in Davidson relays, most points in one season, and most career points.

Swetenburg seemed to be everywhere in the Relays, taking three firsts, one second, and one third during the course of the afternoon.

ANOTHER FIRST
Tommy Richardson wins his heat of the 100-yd. dash.

He took first places in the triple jump, the 120-yd high hurdles, and shared with Dave Peaco, Greg Love, and Bob Trumbo a first in the shuttle hurdle relay.

The Relays were very close and tense, according to Heath Whittle, coach of the Davidson thinclads. “Any of the top five teams could have won the meet,” he said. “It all depended on the last few events.”

Davidson, Cumberland, and West Georgia took the Relays to the wire to find a winner. All had roughly equal points going into the last events of the meet, the relays. West Georgia took three firsts in the relays, but Cumberland’s seconds, linked with their impressive field events, were enough to give them 78 points to win the meet. West Georgia took a close second with 73 points, with Davidson third at 60.

The Cats also fought out a close meet with Wake Forest last Tuesday. The Davidson team fell to the Deacons 78-66 in what Whittle called “a very, very close meet.” “It was tied 66-66 going into the mile relay,” Whittle stated. “We didn't really have a mile relay team ready so we entered a pick-up team. They won, and won the meet.”

Swetenburg led the team in the Wake meet, also, and racked up a first in the 100-yd. dash, along with his usual events. Tommy Richardson was ill and not able to run in the meet, and Swetenburg filled in his position in the 100-yard dash. Surprisingly, Swetenburg did not take his usual first in the triple jump. He scratched after his first jump when he hurt his leg.

Whittle also complimented the achievements of Woody Van Meter and Rick Bell, both freshmen. According to Whittle, Van Meter has been pole vaulting around 13 feet for the thinclads, while Bell, a distance runner, won the mile run at Wake with a time of 4:23.9. Whittle said he is “very pleased with their progress.”

Against Wake Forest, the Cats also took first, second, and third in the 440-yd. hurdles with the runs of Ted Ellett, Steve Still, and Peaco.

The Davidsonian
April 21, 1972
Page Seven

Skippers Favored In SAISA Regatta On Lake Norman
By DAVID MELTON
Staff Writer

This Saturday, Davidson hosts the South Atlantic Inter-Collegiate Sailing Association Championships at the Lake Campus on Lake Norman. Commodore Jim Hunter characterized the team by saying “This is the strongest team Davidson’s ever had.”

Other teams entered in the field are The Citadel, Old Dominion, College of Charleston, Clemson, Duke, University of South Carolina, University of Tennessee, University of Virginia, and Georgia Tech. Hunter said that The Citadel, Clemson, Tennessee, and Davidson are the four top teams entered.

Starters for the Wildcats will be Jim Hunter as skipper.with Frank Somerville as crew in Division A; Allen Lundy as skipper with John McElveen as crew in Division B; and Clement Roussenq as skipper with Tom King as crew in the top reserve position. Hunter revealed that he is "pleased with the last part of the season." The Wildcats took first place at the University of Virginia Regatta and second place at Duke, in their last two performances. Hunter praised the team by saying, "The team has been doing a lot of work getting the boats in shape and everything lined up." He also added that they have been practicing five days a week. Allen Lundy received special commendation in that he "has been sailing really well." Hunter was also quick to point out that Hallam Walker, the Sailing coach, has spent much time with the team and has done a fine job as coach. Hunter feels that Davidson has a good chance to win the regatta. "We have an advantage in sailing our own boats," he said. The winner gains eligibility for a trip to the nationals in San Diego. This may be the best chance for the Wildcats to prosper because next year only one of the top six skippers will return. All of the teams entered in the regatta will use Davidson's "Jet-14s" in the competition. The home team supplies the boats in all SAISA regattas.

Allen To Face Hometown Foes
By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

When the Davidson tennis team meets George Washington and Navy this weekend, Bill Allen will be putting much more than just his 12-4 singles record on the line. Allen, a sophomore from Alexandria, Va., is tied with Gary Bressler for the top winning percentage on the team. Allen plays in the number two position on the Cats, and amazingly, both of his singles opponents this weekend are old hometown rivals of his. John Damon of GWU "lives across the street from me," Allen said, "and he was kind of a teacher of mine." Navy’s number two man, Kevin Miller, played against Allen for three years in high school. The two played for prep arch-rivals. Allen would dearly love to win these two backyard battles, but he expects tough matches from both teams as the Cats attempt to improve their 7-9 season mark.

Wednesday, Southern Conference favorite Furman halted the Cats' three-match win streak 9-0. Last weekend the fuzzballers ripped Richmond and VMI by identical 9-0 scores, and Monday knocked off Pfeiffer 8-1, for their longest victory skein of the season. Allen, after being a prep and junior standout, had to make several major adjustments in college, especially to the competition and different court composition. "I grew up on hard courts, where you play 'serve and volley.' In college on clay I’ve had to switch, use more finesse and stay in the backcourt more. My style was hampered." On hard surfaces, such as the ones in Williamsburg, Va., site of the conference tournament, "I like to hit a hard serve and look for an opportunity to come to the net," Allen added. Traditionally, according to Allen, "Davidson has had clay-court-type teams. We haven’t lost on hard courts this year, so maybe we're a hard-court team." If so, the team’s chances will be improved in the conference, as they attempt to defend their crown they have won for the past three years.

After this weekend’s matches, the netters host High Point on Monday and Sewanee on Wednesday. The Foglemen have only three more matches after that before the conference, which is slated for May 4-6.

(Staff photo by Rodriguez)
BACKHAND BALANCE
Bill Allen stretches for a return against Furman.