Page Ten, April 14, 1972

Up ‘n’ Coming

Monday, April 17
11 a.m. Movie: “Painting”
7 p.m. Film: “Night”
8 p.m. Any Questions? Dr. Spencer
Psychology Film: “Meaning in Modern Perkins Auditorium”
“Long Day's Journey into Love” Auditorium
Open End: Discussion on Subsidized Football Morrison Room
Morrison Room
“The Mind of Man” Morrison Room

Tuesday, April 18
10 a.m. Drama Production: Scenes from Hodson Hall
“The Bicycle Thief” Love Auditorium
Morrison Room

Wednesday, April 19
10 a.m. Piedmont Visiting Scholar: Robert Gilpin
7 p.m. American Life - A Revue
8 p.m. Fine Film: “Joe”

Thursday, April 20
8 p.m. Drama Production: “Scenes from American Life - A Revue” Hodson Hall

EPC Holds Open Meeting, Expounds Coeducation Plan
By BOB HOWELL
Asst. Managing Editor

In an open meeting Monday, the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) fielded questions from faculty and students concerning the report encouraging
coeducation which the committee released last week. The meeting was directed by Professor Brown Patterson, who chaired the subcommittee which
put together the report for the EPC. The panel consisted chiefly of members of the subcommittee and was frequently assisted
by responses from Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan and Vice President for...

Seniors Choose Loan Fund As Gift For Future Students
By BILL GIDUZ
Asst. Managing Editor

This year’s senior class has decided to leave a student loan fund as its legacy to Davidson. Senior Class President
Bill Lear made the announcement Wednesday and said pledges for the fund will be solicited starting Monday. “The idea behind
a student loan fund is to leave Davidson something more meaningful than a bench or a flagpole plaque,” Lear said.
He also pointed out that “we especially liked the idea of this type of gift because it is not a
gift to the administration or college officials, it is specifically intended for students.”

Teaching Evaluated
(Continued from Page 1)

...also found that professors should make a more conscious effort to deal with the problem of spots of tests. Bevan
explained, “A professor has to do more than pick questions from old reviews when he makes out a new one.”
He added, “I realize that it is difficult to think up new ways of asking a question. However, this is
where the ingenuity of the professor comes in.” It came to the attention of the committee that a student, by
looking over three previous reviews of a certain course, would know all the answers for his upcoming review. Among the
recommendations made was that students show a willingness to voice an opinion about the inadequacies of a course to the
professor. If this proves unfruitful, the student should realize that he should voice his complaints with the chairman of the
department. If necessary, the student should feel free to voice his complaints with the Vice President for Academic Affairs. Individuals
should feel free to talk about the strengths or weaknesses of a course,” added Bevan. “This is not done to
hold someone responsible, but it is done to explore the causes of trouble.”

The faculty has been made cognizant of some of these problems. It is hoped that mini-grants will be used for
the improvement of instruction. If a professor has a new teaching approach he would like to try in his classes,
financial backing should be available. The expansion of outside evaluators appears to be a need. Last year the Psychology and
Economics Departments made use of outside examiners. Bevan believes that at least every four years departments should be evaluated. These
outside evaluators should prepare a written report on the strengths and weaknesses of faculty and students in the respective departments.
Davidson hopes to purchase videotape machines so that faculty members will have the opportunity to see themselves in lecture, discussion,
or seminar situations. This will be voluntary, and the faculty member need be the only one to view the film.
It is hoped that the syllabi of all courses can be placed on file in the library so that interested
students will have a better understanding of the nature and requirements of courses before signing up for them.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies
Complete Prescription Service — Sundries — Toiletries
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. — Wed 9 to 12 — Sun. 9:30 to 10:30
Davidson, N. C. Phone 892-2111

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS— La Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N.C. _ Phone 376-2576 1540 West
Blvd. at Remount Rd.

dents and only students.” Lear formed a committee of 20 seniors a month ago to come up with an idea
for a class gift. They decided on either a loan fund or a coed scholarship, and a poll of the
members of the senior class showed a definite preference for the loan fund. Ultimately, the goal for the fund is
$10,000. This is to be collected by donations of $10 per year for five years by 200 members of the
senior class. “We wanted to be ambitious in the amount of money we collected, because it takes a lot for
a fund like this to be effective.” Lear went on to say that the fund will be administered by Dean
of Students Will Terry and that any Davidson student may request a loan from it. Initially, loans will have to
be limited to about $100 because of the size of the fund in its first few years, but when the
total of $10,000 is reached, $500 loans will be available. The interest rate for loans will be only 3 percent
per year, and Lear commented that this adds up to almost nothing on a small, short-term loan. Lear expressed his
hope that all seniors will help in the drive by saying, “I don’t think this is asking too much from
any student, particularly considering the need in this area at Davidson. I sincerely hope that the class will support this
drive wholeheartedly.”

— 131 N. Main St. Finance and Development C. David Cornell. Much of the discussion centered on the financial aspects
of the proposed plan. Professor George Abernethy questioned the advisability of instituting a program for which the facilities had not
all been secured. Cornell granted that there was a certain element of risk involved, but he outlined programs by which
the college would be able to keep up financially with coeducation. He referred to the section of the report calling
for a $12.55 million increase of the present endowment, and emphasized that, “this increase would be over the next 10
years and does not necessarily mean a $1.2 million increase each year.” Cornell stressed the need to expand the development
program. In response to the question of where the emphasis for recruiting female students would be, Patterson stressed the impact
that the present student body could have in getting the word out. Bevan indicated that the intention was to “first
aim for second-year transfer students and then phase in freshman women the succeeding years.” Therefore, the initial information would go
out to 400 selected junior colleges, he said, with material sent to high school counselors for distribution next fall. Professor
Alan Brinkley voiced concern over the student-faculty ratio rising from 11:1 to 13:1. Patterson replied that the committee had tried
to arrive at the best plan taking all aspects into consideration, including the financial implications of hiring additional faculty members.
Addressing himself to other questions concerning additional faculty members, Bevan noted that the specific areas of the new faculty could
be better determined after a few years, when the academic directions in which female students will move could be perceived.
Patterson added that as the opportunity arose to add faculty members, major emphasis would be placed on hiring women to
fill these positions.

Professors Chosen For Committees By TOM AINSWORTH News Editor

The Professional Affairs Committee, under the chairmanship of Dr. Aldrin Bryan, released the results of the general faculty elections to
committee posts this week. Those named are as follows: John D. Kelton, Professor of Psychology to the Admissions and Financial
Aid Committee; and Professors R. David Kaylor and Donald L. Kimmel to the Athletic and Physical Education Committee. Professor Robert
L. Avinger was selected for the Budget, Buildings and Grounds Committee; Professor George Labban to the Educational Policy Committee; Professor
J. Harris Proctor to the Executive Committee; Professors Earl MacCormac and Max E. Polley to the Professional Affairs Committee; and
Professor Daniel Rhodes to the Religious Policy and Program Committee. Professors Anthony Abbott, Larry Ligo, and Ernest Patterson were named
to the Review Board (a one-year term); to the Student Conduct Council (a two-year term) Professor Edward Palmer; and Professor
C. Earl Edmondson to the Student Life Committee. All nominations are for a three-year basis except as noted.

DEAL'S RESTAURANT AND GRILL 663-4141 4 Miles North of Davidson Steaks — Seafood — Plate Lunches Sandwiches 6 a.m. ’til
Midnight Closed Monday

THE LITTLE KITCHEN FINE FOODS Across from the Hospital Mooresville, N.C.
