Page Six October 13, 1972

A LITTLE CREATIVITY

Mike Grizzard has remodeled his room and those of friends.

Phillips Interviews For Nader In Summer’s Congress Study

By HARRIETT HODGES
Staff Writer

Junior Bo Phillips got a close look at the U.S. political process this summer. Phillips worked as a member of
the Ralph Nader Congress Project, an attempt to evaluate the effectiveness of Congress as a whole and Congressmen as individuals.
As a member of the Foreign Relations division, headed by Davidson Political Science Professor Bill Jackson, Phillips’ job was to
interview key members of the Congressional committees concerning foreign policy. This was done in order to learn the role of
each man in the committee.

Phillips spent much of his time interviewing Congressmen and members of the congressional staff. “Mostly, we went anywhere and everywhere
for our information,” he said. The Nader team ran into many cases where people were reluctant to be interviewed, Phillips
said, though only two refused to cooperate at all and “both of them were named Barry Goldwater.” On the other
hand, one Florida Congressman gave a Nader worker 12 hours of his time. Phillips said that if the Nader people
“pressed hard enough and showed that they knew something,” the Congressmen showed respect. But, “whether it was respect or fear,
you never really knew.”

Phillips said that it took about a month of encounters with the people in Congress to “erase the initial reaction
that Nader was releasing a bunch of naive, neophyte political scientists on Capitol Hill.” The treatment the group received had
nothing to do with ideology, Phillips said. Whether or not a Congressman was liberal or conservative was not an indicator
of how he would receive the Nader workers. Phillips said that Nader met with the group about once every two
weeks. He found Nader a fascinating person. “One of the things that impressed me the most was his sense of
humor,” Phillips said. “It’s hard to believe that somebody can work that hard and have that much stamina. Most of
the people in the project had an awful lot of respect for him,” Phillips said.

Phillips was told about the possibility of a job on the Nader team by Professor Jackson. A grant from the
North Carolina Fellows made it possible for him to accept the job. Money for the Congress Project came from Ralph
Nader himself. He used the money from his speaking engagements plus book royalties to finance the project.

Freshman Recess Changed

The Freshman Conference Recess has been changed from Oct. 26-27 to Nov. 6-7, Vice President for Academic Affairs John M.
Bevan has announced. According to Bevan, freshman faculty advisors during this period will have the opportunity to discuss with their
freshmen any problems they may have encountered during their first six weeks at Davidson. “I hope other faculty members will
be in their offices so that upperclassmen can talk to them about their programs,” Bevan said.

In another matter, Bevan said his office was launching a campaign to interest Davidson students in applying for undergraduate research
grants. According to him, no one has applied for such a grant in recent years. Grants are awarded for research
done during the summer and during the academic year. This year grants are available to do research in American art,
anthropology, physical sciences, the history of science and technology, American history, and the humanities. Grants in other fields are also
available. Deadlines for applications vary, with some being Jan. 1. Bevan said these grants were “a tremendous opportunity,” and he
said departmental chairmen could be contacted for further information.

2 Students Renovate Their Dorm Rooms

By BRUCE MALOY
Asst. Managing Editor

Mike Grizzard is fast earning a reputation as the handiest man with a hammer in Belk Dormitory due to the
lofts or scaffolds he has been building for his friends. One of the best examples of his carpentry is a
wooden platform made of plywood and 2x4's which holds the beds of Russell Carter and John Williams about eight feet
off the floor, leaving a small room underneath. Access is by a ladder which goes through an opening in the
floor of the platform. When asked why he wanted the structure built, Carter said, “We wanted to have the extra
space naturally. We’re getting a couch for $3 and plan to make a sort of den in the area under
the beds. Also, we’re putting one stereo upstairs and one downstairs.” Grizzard said he plans toown his own construction company
someday, so he builds these things to experiment. Referring to Bill Bales and Bill Todd's room, which he also renovated,
Grizzard said, “There's not a damn nail in the wall or the floor. It took about fifteen minutes to figure
out the lumber lengths that I would need for the plans that I had in my head. I had the
wood cut at the lumber yard and brought it back here,” he said. “It took about an hour and a
half to assemble. The only tool I used was a hammer.”

Ronnie Hamilton and Henry Barber are the proud owners of another of Mike's creations. They have a sort of bunk
bed arrangement with a waterbed and frame on the bottom and a double bed made from the mattresses on top.
“We got it built to have a frame for the waterbed and room for an icebox and a chair,” Hamilton
said. “This is the perfect set-up for a waterbed and it’s different from the regular two-bed arrangement. We put eight
guys up on that top bed,” said Grizzard, “and it didn’t even creak.”

For his own room, Grizzard has planned a three-level structure. The normal floor would have a waterbed and frame. Two
higher levels reached by steps would make up living and study space. Asked if he plans to keep on building,
Grizzard said, “So far I've just built for my friends, but if someone else wanted some work done I'd do
it if I had the time. These lofts only cost about $35 to $40 and I really enjoy building them.”

Short Drive Invites Adventure In Picturesque Appalachians
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Staff Writer

Appalachia at its best is a little over an hour's drive from Davidson. Picturesque 19th-century cabins and brick houses beside
one-acre corn patches, dilapidated tobacco barns, and local yokels abound. The heavily forested mountains are now nearing the peak of
their fall color. The circuit described below can be made easily in a Saturday afternoon.

Lenoir is at the foot of the mountain country. The easiest way there is up I-77 to Statesville, west on
I-40 to Hickory, and up US 321 into town. Turning right on NC 268 brings you to an ordinary town
with the cliché name of HAPPY VALLEY. Farther up the muddy Yadkin River, you turn left on the road that
runs by Buffalo Creek. Rip Shin Mountain is on your right. Earl Jones’ old bear hound cut its leg on
some briers long ago to give the mountain its name. Buffalo Cove is further up Buffalo Creek. Bear left, right,
and then left again at successive junctions. Wrong turns invite hostile stares from the locals and lead by muddy trails
to stills way back in the forest, or to the two-house town of Darby---the latter not worth seeing.

The steep winding road looks like intestines on a large-scale map. It soon levels off on Little Dugger Mountain. The
forest here is composed of Maple, Oak, Hickory, and some Poplar. Much of the area to the east burned during
the great fire of 1943, of which the locals still talk. These mountains are reputed to swarm with deer and
bear. Be on the lookout.

The dead-end road which exits right is well worth taking and gives views far over the purple Globe Mountains from
the Mast Knob. After you pass under the Blue Ridge Parkway, turn left at the first paved road and then
left again onto the dirt road back up the ridge (under the parkway again). This road comes out at Bailey
Camp on US 321. George Bailey searched these mountains for coal in the 1800s. Grandfather Mountain is the prominent peak
(5964 feet) off to the west. Grandmother is the small one just to the left.

Up NC 194 out of Boone, a paved road bears left and becomes dirt as it gains Rich Mountain Gap
at over a mile in elevation. You drive through Pleasant Valley and a “town” named Meat Camp. As you wind
up along the river to the gap, Snake Mountain looms on your right. At 5547 feet, it is the highest
in the area. As you come down into Trade---just barely across the border into Tennessee---be careful not to hit anyone's
chickens or pigs. When you hit the highway, US 421, turn left to head back to Lenoir.

APPALACHIAN ROAD SYSTEM
Mountains offer a welcome change of pace.
