ON THE BENCH

"He’s Lost In Beeker’s"

By BRUCE BECKER
Staff Writer

I've never met Rocky Crosswhite, but I feel a certain bond between us which spans the four years since he
left. That bond can be explained in two words - the bench.

You see, for two years I have successfully avoided any consideration for a varsity letter in Wildcat football. Not only
have I maintained a spotless record benchwarming, I was the only senior or junior granted three weekends off during the
season: the away game at William and Mary, the away game at Bucknell, and the away game at North Carolina.
That makes me Davidson's premier benchwarmer going into the 1972 season.

It is not that I don't want to play. I enlisted in the suicide squads. I'll do anything. However, my
body refuses to cooperate. I tell my body to run a 4.7 40-yard dash. Coach Fagg tells it to run
a 5.6. "Just one time around the track." My body revolts at the thought of anything so silly. When it
comes time to suit up, my body is so insulted it secedes from my mind.

I led the team in one category last year. On five different and distinct occasions, I threw up on the
practice field. If I don't get sick, I slip or I trip. I miss blocks. Or I go the wrong
way. I can remember going the wrong way three times last season. Once I was trying to run down from
behind a Furman sprinter who was on his way to a 94-yard kickoff return for a touchdown. I got within
twenty yards. That was definitely the wrong way. In the Richmond game, I ended up with the Spiders as they...

Four Remain Unbeaten As Favorites Roll In IMAC

By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

IMAC basketball followed the form sheet this week, as most of the front-runners sparred with second-division teams. In one of
the few match-ups between top teams, Delt I crushed Pika I 69-38. Greg and Mike Sikes collected 16 and 15
points, respectively, as the Delts rolled up a 39-19 halftime lead and coasted home. Mike Harding's 15 points paced the
losers. It was the sixth straight win for the unbeaten Delts, and gave them a half-game lead over Keeter’s (5-0)
through Tuesday's games.

In their only game last week, Keeter’s romped past Sentelle 77-11, after surging to a 34-15 halftime bulge. Bo Peele
netted 20 points to lead the winners, with Gary Scibal and Mike O'Malley chipping in 15 and 11 points, respectively.

In League C, Emanon I picked up a pair of victories to up its record to 6-0, half a game
ahead of Porter's, 5-0, which won its only start over the Married Men, 75-31. Dave Daniels hit a 15-footer in
the waning seconds to propel Emanon I to a hard-fought 73-72 win over the SPE’s. Frank Folger and Sam Upchurch
sparked the winners with their outside shooting (29 and 22 points, respectively), to offset the inside work of SPE’s John
Simms, who led all scorers with 30.

The ATO’s ripped Beta 2, 79-46 in their only outing, as Mitchell Johnson canned 26 and Doug Berry 11. Harold
Bailey chalked up 11 for Beta 2 (0-3), as the Taus moved into third place at 4-1.

Meanwhile, League I is developing into a real donnybrook. Three teams, F & M, SAE’s, and Delt 2, are deadlocked
in first place with 5-1 records. F & M laughed its way past the Nus 62-45, as 12 men scored
in a balanced attack. Bill Sims’ 18 paced the cellar-dwelling Nus (0-6). Monday, F & M destroyed Emanon 3, 83-50,
as Rollie Sumwalt fired in 19 points. Bob Isner and Bill Giduz each tallied 15 for Emanon.

The Delts crushed the Pikas 74-11 and the Nus 67-45 for their fifth straight win since an opening game loss.
The Delts jumped out to a 42-22 halftime lead and the Pikas never threatened thereafter. Bill McIlwain’s 20 points topped
all scorers. John Calhoun carried the brunt of the Pika attack with 18. In the win over the Nus, the
Delts broke open the game in the third quarter, as Davis and McIlwain each garnered 17 points. Bill Simms popped
in 20 for the Nus.

The E’s handed Emanon 3 its first loss last Wednesday 88-53, exploding for 50 points in the second half. John
Webel hit 20 points and Steve Keller added 13 as five E's hit twin figures. Bill Giduz had 13 to
pace Emanon. Tuesday the E's rapped Sentelle 3, 60-10, after leading only 21-16 at halftime. Webel tallied 13 of his
game-high 20 points in the second half and Steve Keller contributed 16. Billy Lyan tossed...in 17 for the freshmen. (2-4),
$6 value $1.50 value $5.00 value $12.50 all for only $6. Your reference service saved me much valuable time which
I put in on other subjects. Result: 5 As and 1 B. CN, Ann Arbor, Mich. "The Vantage Point" is
a book put together by LBJ. Your reference - own personal ghost writer. LC, Gainesville, Fla. The 3 reference books
of which every student needs personal copies are Study Abroad, a good dictionary, and thesaurus. I got a $20,000 4-year
scholarship from Study Abroad. AR, Berkeley, Calif. She Mavidsonian January 21, 1972 World Again assistance, HOW, scholarship approach costed by
VACATION STUDY ABROAD. Each copy is trilingual in English, French, and Spanish. More and more Americans are flocking overseas for
summer vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking numbers
of young Americans will surge across Europe this summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people can go, free! Provides
information on short courses, seminars, summer schools, scholarships, and travel grants available each year to students, teachers, and other young
people and adults planning to undertake study or training abroad during their vacations. These data were provided by some 500
organizations in 54 countries. STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Service offered: * Scholarship information service - Answers questions concerning scholarships
worldwide! * Travel service - Plans interesting tours to exotic lands. * Reference Service - Drafts term papers, essays, book
reports, theses, etc., frequently using primary sources available only in the Library of Congress! We do not actually write the
finished assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable educational experience and defeat the very purpose of writing for
oneself in the first place. We will provide background information and bibliographies which rank with such tools as the College
Outline Series and encyclopedia reference service available. Limit of one draft at a small additional charge, per semester per student
in good standing. We cannot answer any question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, lawyer, architect, engineer,
or other licensed practitioner, nor can we advise concerning your financial investments. Neither can we undertake market research or surveys
or provide home study courses. Most writers and editors only work with expensive sets prepared to kickoff. I finally realized
my mistake when they broke out of their defensive huddle. It was a long run to my position on our
side of the 40-yard line. However, the thing which firmly established me as a major college Davidson bench warmer happened
before our season opener with Wake Forest. It was Thursday night, and just 48 hours before we were to be
shoved out onto the field to play Street and Smith's such ranked football team in the nation. In everyone's mind
was a sense of uneasy foreboding. We were a group of 37 Spartans looking forward to our next Thermopylae. The
coaches wore lighthearted faces to hide knotted stomachs. We were methodically reviewing our plays when I was sent in to
play fullback in our old full house I-formation. The play called was a pass. I was the intended receiver. I
was to set off well to the end and filter into the flat. I could almost see it. Scotty Shipp
called the play from the line of scrimmage. On the signal, I exploded out of the backfield and weaved through
some heavy traffic on the line. I got into the flat. I was open. I was wide open. More than
that, nobody was within thirty yards of me, not even Scotty. I looked back at the line of scrimmage. Everyone
was looking at me. Then, it hit me. I had run a perfect route to the left, yet meanwhile, the
team had run the play to the right, completely to the other side of the field. The heavy traffic I
had deftly avoided was a tackle, Tom Jones, who I almost killed as he retreated to form backside protection. As
I shuffled red-faced back to the huddle, I heard Coach Fagin say, "Don't worry. He's in Rocker's world again." I
swear I'd heard Scotty call the play to the left, but my body was playing tricks on me. Anyway, I
got another chance to make some plays. This time I ran in the right direction but my pass was behind
me. As I turned, my body tripped. The ball hit me square in the shoulder pads but smothered my hands.
Five yards and landed right on my duff. I was all warmed up for a big season of sitting. Peace
France, 1972.
