BECKER'S WORLD  
March 10, 1972  
Page Nine  

Dave Fagg: ‘Everyman’ As Coach  
By BRUCE BECKER  
Staff Writer  

The 1971 Davidson Wildcats began their season on Aug. 22. Everyone was sorry to be back. It was Sunday, and appropriately, everyone was blessing the hellish Davidson campus. A pervading uneasiness was expressed in words of the four-letter variety. It wasn’t until that night that the uncertainty was broken.

“Men, tomorrow morning we'll get up at 6:15. We'll get our testing done early so we can practice the rest of the day. All you'll be expected to do is just one 440. That’s just one time around the track as hard as you can run. Just pump those arms and sprint around the track. Then go down into the gym. Lift as much weight as you can. I'm talking about getting under that bar and being ready and just EXPLODE into that weight. Just bench press as much as you can. Then go into the mat room. Get with one of the coaches and do your '50-push, 50-pike.’ That is all men. See you tomorrow morning.”

That was Coach Dave Fagg, and, “poosh” means push up and “pike” means wearing your butt thin, and 6:15 in the morning means dawn. We lost our uncertainty that night, but we gained the knowledge that Coach Fagg was his good ol’ self. One of the misfortunes, or joys depending on how you look at it, of the non-football players at Davidson is not experiencing Dave Fagg. He is the

(Staff photo by Rodriguez)  
FRESHMEN FIGHT INTO FINALS  
Watts II defeated the Delts to win the IMAC tourney.

F&M Pads IMAC Point Lead, Volleyball Competition Opens  
By HOWARD BOYD  
Asst. Sports Editor  

F&M, with a second place finish in handball and a fifth in basketball, has taken a commanding lead in the overall IMAC standings. F&M received 99 points for their runner-up spot in handball and 140.2 in basketball, bringing their total to 799.20. The Delts, third in basketball and fourth in handball, rank second with 622.48 points, while the SPEs, victors in handball, hold third at 581.90. Emanon (457.18) is in fourth followed by PAX and SAE, tied for fifth at 445.90.

Volleyball competition opened this week, as 24 teams entered. There are three leagues of eight teams each, with round-robin play slated within the leagues. The top four teams in each league qualify for the tournament, as in basketball.

Watts II captured the basketball crown, edging Delt II 50-49 in the championship game, as Juan Sanchez tallied 18 points and Mark Rodgman added 15. Watts II finished with an 11-1 mark overall, edging out Porter’s, which closed out 10-1 after entering the tournament as the top seed. Bill McIlwain and Jim Brown paced the Delt cause in the finals with 15 and 12 points respectively, as the losers wound up 10-3.

In semifinal play, Delt I nipped Porter’s 38-36 and Watts II squeezed past the Betas 64-62. Brown poured in 20 markers to spark the Delts, who weathered a late charge by Porter’s. Tim Winter and Frank Clark topped the losers with 11 and 10 points, respectively. Rodgman gunned in 26 points and Sanchez popped in 20 more in leading Watts II past the Betas. The victors overcame a four-point deficit in the final minute. Jack Willits’ 19 points was high for the losers who ended 9-2 and tied with Delt I for third. F&M, Emanon and Keeter’s tied for fifth place with 8-2 records, followed by Delt II (10-3), SAE (8-3) and ATO (7-3) in tenth.

The Buzz Tarver-led SPEs beat F&M 2-1 in the handball finals, as the winners wound up 9-1. F&M also finished 9-1, with PAX I (7-2) in third and the Delts (6-3) fourth. Five new teams are competing in volleyball: Bigs, X, Little 2, Our Boys Gang and a faculty team. Only four freshmen teams are entered.most human man (not humane, human) at Davidson College. I do not mean to say he is Erasmus reborn. He is Everyman. He possesses almost all of man’s attributes. Maybe that’s why I can't figure him out. He possesses some singularly unique and puzzling qualities. He's one of the few men who can jump rope, without a rope. At Camp Carolina we were jumping rope for conditioning. There weren’t enough ropes to go around, Coach Fagg had to do without. That was okay, he was in the back of the room doing double-overs, pepper and other tricks, but no rope. He taught us the best arm movement to use in running. The basic tenet was to sort of “scratch your sides with your elbows.” Some of us didn’t quite understand; so we used to watch occasionally as the coach determinedly thrusted his elbows while walking at a three mph clip around the practice field.

The thing that puzzles me most happened during my sophomore year. The scene was the upper practice field. I was on defense then. The first team was scrimmaging the freshmen while I admiringly looked on. It was a cold day and it looked like snow. I tried to keep warm while I stood securely on the sidelines. Coach Fagg walked up behind me so I tried to look attentive. He was chewing a good wad of tobacco.

“Bruce,” said Coach Fagg. “Have you ever seen it snow?”

I had never heard a question like that on the practice field before. I didn’t even get a warning. Caught off guard I responded accordingly.

“Huh?”

“Becker. Have you ever seen it snow?”

“Sure, coach. I used to live in Philadelphia...”

“C'mon,” he argued. “You've never seen it snow.”

“Sure I have, coach.”

“You’ve never seen it snow. You lived in Puerto Rico.”

“Coach,” I replied, “I live in California now, and they have snow on the mountains there.”

“Naw,” he concluded. “You’ve never seen it snow.” He spat on the ground as if to deliver his verdict and walked away.

I still don’t know whether he was pulling my leg. Sometimes I wonder if he’s as serious as he pretends to be, or at least seems to be. There are four things I'll never figure out: God, women, the administration of Davidson College, and Coach Fagg. I guess that’s pretty good company.

Davidson Bid Hopes For NIT Dwindle

The Davidson basketball team’s chances for a bid to the National Invitational Tournament appear to be rapidly dwindling. The sponsors of the NIT had expressed a desire to invite the Davidson cagers earlier in the season, but the Wildcats’ loss to East Carolina in the second round of the Southern Conference Tournament appears to have ended their interest. The Davidson coaches had not received a bid by Wednesday, and fourteen of the sixteen places in the tourney have been filled. The bids for the last two places will be given out today and Monday. Assistant Coach Bo Brickels said that the ’Cats may have a chance to receive an alternate bid. “If Ohio State receives a bid, they'll probably turn it down, and if Tennessee wins, their bid will be open also,” Brickels stated.

If at first you don’t succeed, try try again. Then quit. No use being a damn fool about it.
W. C. Fields

Fa Hal Mapes Jim Roy 892-1467 892-1424

ROBERT T. STONE District Agent

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what “low net cost” really means.

NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE MILWAUKEE