Page Eight October 13, 1972

OVER AND UNDER...
(Staff photos by Goodman)
Dave Ingold (31) and Alton McCallum (41) provide protection for Scotty Shipp

Cats Bounce Back To Tie Apps
By DAVID MELTON
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcats bounced back after a shattering loss at the hands of Air Force, and tied a favored Appalachian
State team 10-10 last Saturday. The Cats were led by quarterback Scotty Shipp, halfback Dave Ingold, and a highly aroused
Davidson defense.

The Cat defense completely dominated the Appalachian offense for three and one half quarters. The only real letdown defensively was
a 71-yard Appalachian drive early in the third quarter, which resulted in a Mountaineer touchdown. Other than that touchdown drive,
the Cat defensive team gave up only 114 yards the rest of the game.

Led by Shipp and Ingold, the Cat offense gained 426 yards. Ingold, a junior running back from High Point, had
a great afternoon, picking up 105 yards on 22 carries. He also was on the receiving end of seven Shipp
passes, for a total of 60 yards. Upon being asked how he felt about the team's performance, Ingold replied, "I
felt good about the team's performance as a whole, except for the fact that we didn't win the football game."
Ingold also said, "The offensive line did a fantastic job and the defense played really well too."

Shipp also had a fine game, completing 22 of 35 passes for 247 yards with no interceptions. The lone Wildcat
touchdown was a 43-yard aerial from Shipp to flanker Walt Walker. Walker managed to get behind a prevent defense thrown
up by the Mountaineers and took the perfectly thrown Shipp pass for the score. Walker proved to be a menace
to the Appalachian defense all afternoon, catching 5 passes for 100 yards. The touchdown pass came with just 24 seconds
showing on the clock in the first half, and gave the Cats a 7-3 lead during intermission. Little did they
know that they would never cross the goal line again.

Time and time again, the Appalachian defense rose up to thwart scoring opportunities by the Cats. One first half Wildcat
drive was halted when offensive pass interference was detected by an official in the end zone. Another drive fell short
at the Appalachian eight-yard line when the Cats were unable to move on the first three downs, and then on
fourth down, Shipp was sacked behind the line after being pressured by a tremendous rush.

With the score 10-7 in favor of Appalachian, the Wildcats marched 80 yards, only to be stopped at the Mountaineer
four-yard line. From there, senior Woody Montgomery booted a field goal to tie the game.

Furman Team Reports Virus
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Staff Writer

Monday it was learned that there was a virus spreading through the Furman football camp. Wednesday Furman Sports Information Director
Charlie Dayton confirmed this fact. "We had 23 men out Monday, but yesterday they dressed in sweats," Dayton explained. "We
do expect them to be ready to play on Saturday, however."

The extent to which this incident will affect the Paladins remains a mystery. Dayton thought that it was a minor
occurrence, since practice was "just hampered." If there were any key players on the squad that were out, there was
no mention of it. Assuming that everyone returns to practice by Thursday, there will probably be no great effect on
the conditions or the game, according to Dayton.

The Furman players first complained of the illness after returning from their game last Saturday with Western Carolina. The nature
of the illness was undetermined by spokesmen for the team, other than to call it "a small virus." Few students
other than football players have been affected by the illness.a 21-yard field goal to knot the score at 10-10. After
the ensuing Wildcat kick-off, the Mountaineers worked their way into Davidson territory, only to lose the ball on a fumble.
Then the Wildcats took over. Shipp, using his backs and tight-end Mike Harding, moved the Cats to the Mountaineer 12-yard
line for a first down with just over a minute left in the game. After three plays moved the ball
to the six-yard line, Montgomery came in to try for a game-winning 23-yard field goal. His boot was barely wide
to the left, however, and the Cats settled for a tie, much to the disappointment of the highly partisan Wildcat
crowd and team. Coach Dave Fagg was pleased with the team's performance, however. Fagg commented on the Wildcat effort by
saying, "Saturday was one of the highlights of my coaching career at Davidson." He then characterized the game as being
a "near perfect game" on the parts of both teams. Fagg then singled out Eddie Womack, Mike Creaseman, Woody Montgomery,
Jim DeVille, Jimmy Hardison, and John West as defensive standouts for the Wildcats.

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Staff Writer

When the Furman Paladins invade Davidson tomorrow, there is more at stake than a football game. The Wildcats will be
plugging to regain their pride as a Southern Conference contender and end a two-year skid at their opponents’ hands. Head
coach Dave Fagg, despite feeling low after the tie with Appalachian, is impressed with the offensive and defensive displays that
the Wildcats showed last week. "We are a good team," Fagg commented. "We can win. We are trying to develop
a true character of winning here at Davidson." The Furman team will provide more opposition than did the Mountaineers, according
to Fagg. Mike Shelton, their fine quarterback, has an exceptional throwing arm and their passing game should prove to be
a big test for the secondary of the Wildcats. "They will definitely throw more than the Mounties did," explained Fagg.
"I expect them to be more effective also." Fagg is planning a re-emphasis in the defensive organization to compensate for
this difference. There will be no basic structural changes in the alignment, however. Fagg feels the team is ready for
the challenge. The unit is physically healthy and mentally ready. "We think the boys can bounce back," he said. "We
are mentally up for this one."

The Furman passing game will originate from a combination of the Houston veer and a pro-type passing set formation. This
will be entirely new to the Wildcat defense. Fagg deems it a true test of a team’s ability to put
together an effort that shows the willingness to adapt quickly to a new experience. Offensively, the Davidson gridders will be
out to do the same thing they did to Appalachian last week, with one essential exception. The Wildcats are determined
to carry the ball across the goal line. The line play by both the defensive and offensive units was highly
praised by Fagg. Pass protection was a definite plus in the attack against the Apps, he said. Defensively, the Wildcats
put constant pressure on the passer, while plugging the gaps with great consistency. Dave Ingold, who ripped off 207 yards
worth of total offense last week, will be the premier (See PALADINS, page 10).

AND THROUGH. Dave Ingold prepares to cut through the Appalachian line.
