The Davidsonian
January 28, 1972
Page Three

SOS: Security Offensive Suggested
By STEVE LeRESCHE
Staff Writer

“They knew what they were after. They broke in the window nearest it. There must have been two of them because it was so heavy. They carried it up the steps and right out the front door.” That is how Brian Tarr, president of the ATO house, described the theft of that house's television set over Christmas vacation.

Despite the fact that the number of reported thefts on campus is just about the same as last year, there is a growing concern about campus security at Davidson. Part of this concern stems from the fact that security is an important factor to be considered when thinking of coeducation. The recent attack of one coed has already had its impact. Bobbie Blackwood, an exchange student from Hollins, freely admits that she advises prospective exchange students to forget about Davidson unless something is done about security on campus.

Many male students forget the increased security necessary when a large number of girls become Davidson students and therefore are not always escorted when on the campus. Another factor adding to the seriousness of the problem is the growth of Charlotte as a metropolitan area. It has been predicted that Charlotte will expand rapidly to the north as I-77 is opened. Consequently, there will be many more people in the Davidson area than at present, many of them different from the populace in the area in the past. With the “open” nature of the Davidson campus, this means increased security problems.

A third factor to be considered is the general lack of security on the campus in the past. The college and the students have come to expect a non-activist role by security officers, a policy which has been possible in the past but may not be today. All these factors must be considered in the planning of a security program now. The administration is well aware of this. C. David Cornell, Vice President for Finance and Development, says that “Upgrading the security system is a high priority. This year’s budget includes a request for a significant increase in funds for security.” Cornell, Dean of Students Will Terry, and Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze have all voiced the opinion that security should be upgraded.

The question seems to be: What should be done first? All three men agree that there is a need for better lighting on campus. Meetze drew up a general lighting plan for the college in 1964. Ever since then he has put in a “standard request” every year for funds for this purpose. The request has yet to be heeded and lighting has not been improved.

There is also a need for an increase in personnel. At the present, there is only one security officer on duty each eight-hour shift. Security officers are trying to make the best of this shortage by increasing their cooperation with the Davidson police. Linked with the problem of personnel is one of attitude on the part of students. Meetze points out that the security officer is not employed to spy on the students, but rather to help them. Terry spoke of these two areas by saying, “A security force must have sophistication in dealing with students and outsiders. You don’t deal with them the same way. We need a good man at the head of security who has the ability to train others. He also must maintain a nitty-gritty relationship with students.” Terry went on to say, “It would be very unfortunate to have a ‘closed campus’. But it could come to that. The security force needs the cooperation of staff and students in reporting outsiders on campus and in taking minimal security precautions with their own belongings.”

AN ANALYSIS
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Associate Editor

The security of any society is the responsibility of the members of that system, and successful security must come, in the final analysis, from the people within that society. The members of Davidson’s society — the students themselves — must take primary responsibility for the security of their campus.

Perhaps the major problem in the realm of improved security lies in the lack of experience the college has had in dealing with thievery, assault, and other crimes against property and persons. Davidson has been an isolated rural men’s college with a strong honor code and an administration which...has made security personnel into watchdogs rather than crimefighters or law enforcers. Other colleges have for years had locked dorm rooms, armed security men patrolling dorms, and bright lighting that makes the campus look like Washington, D.C. at night. But Davidson hasn't. And perhaps everyone—students as well as administration—has become so accustomed to things in the “good ol’ days” that they malfunction when faced with the real world of student thieves, men intent on forcible assault, and a society which tries to get all it can by any possible means. When Director of Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze, Jr. attempted to install additional lighting in 1964, students (supported by some faculty) pulled up stakes and physically prevented the erection of the poles for the new lights. And students are so used to, and fond of, their “open dorms” that they refuse to recognize that there are “no trespassing” signs on doors to all dorms and that these apply to everyone but invited guests and other authorized persons.

The administration has plans to “beef up” its security system, maintaining as far as possible the privacy of students in their actions and the traditional non-interference of security personnel in student life. The college might be wise to establish closer relationships with the Town of Davidson police. Local police prevented three thefts at fraternity houses over the Christmas break, and their cooperation in guarding the campus, particularly over vacations, can surely be garnered without sacrificing the impunity from arrest which students enjoy.

(Staff photos by Barnes)

LOCKING UP
Campus guard secures Chambers for the night.

Student Involvement: Essential Answer

But the real answer to the security problem lies in student willingness to help the college in protecting property and person. Strange persons roaming the halls of dormitories can, and should, be questioned as to their destination and invitation. Perhaps students could be hired—or maybe even volunteer—to aid the security force in protecting the campus. A Queens, J.C. escort service for coeds might be developed between the library, Phi Hall, and Grey House. There are certain solutions that only the college can effect. But if past experience holds true, and if a real and lasting answer to the dilemma is to be found, students must become concerned about the situation and actively support the solution. The security of their campus depends, at last, on them.

Smith, UNCC Confront Similar Problems

By TOM BRUCE
Contributing Editor

Other colleges in Mecklenburg County apparently had security problems similar to the situation at Davidson, but many increased their security force to handle the difficulties. James Dennis Rash, Dean of Students at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, pointed out that his campus is more spread out than Davidson and that the students are forced to commute in greater numbers. “About 70 per cent of our students do not live in college residence halls, so we have people coming and going all the time. Also, we hold classes in some of the dormitories, so there are many people in the dorms besides residents.” He stated that they have not been troubled by attempts to detain coeds, although he acknowledged that it is harder to know about this situation when large numbers of students are living off campus. “We have a new chief security officer who has tightened things up. We have recylindered all the locks and we have tried to limit the number of master keys that are distributed.”

At Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte, Dean of Students Joseph Gaston said that the University has had some security problems, but he was not sure that it was an increase over previous years. “Many of our students make frequent trips to the convenience stores in the Five Points community, and some of our men students have been intimidated by non-students in the neighborhood. We’ve also had some petty thievery in the dormitory, but no incidents of large items such as televisions or expensive clothing.” Gaston said that students are encouraged to lock their rooms. He said that the majority of students are careful about this, but some leave keys on the door sill and with friends. “We have a security force of four persons at a given time, with more at night and for big occasions when the campus is crowded,” Gaston explained.

Miss Diane DelPizzo, Dean of Students at Queens College, reports that incidents of petty theft or attempted assault have not been a problem at the Charlotte campus. The Queens security force is composed of two men per shift.