ON THE GROUND... (Staff Photos by Goodman) Davidson gridders shape up their running game before meeting Air Force.

Cats Take On Falcon Giants
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Davidson is presently known as the smallest school in the country playing major college football, and tomorrow they will make
an effort at being giant-killers. After a shattering loss to Lenoir Rhyne, the Cats are traveling to Colorado Springs, Colo.
to tackle the Falcons of Air Force, a major college power. The Falcons are unbeaten after two games, defeating Wyoming
and Pittsburgh.

Davidson coach Dave Fagg called Air Force “the best football team Davidson has played in the past 20 years.” Fagg
said the Falcons had a balanced team, capable of equal running and passing strength. Two offensive players the Air Force
will rely on are Rich Haynie, quarterback for the Falcons, and running back Joel Carson. Haynie hit nine of 21
passes against Pittsburgh last Saturday, two for touchdowns. Fagg called him “one of the best quarterbacks we'll see all season.”
Carson has had impressive games against both Wyoming and Pittsburgh, rolling up over 100 yards rushing in each contest. He
hit 134 in the Pitt game.

The team as a whole is large, although they do not sacrifice size for speed, Fagg said. The Falcons’ line
considerably outweighs the Cats on both offense and defense, although the teams are of fairly equal size in the defensive
secondaries. The Falcons use a “52” defense, with a five-man front, two linebackers, and a rover. Rover Steve Heil put
in a fine defensive performance against Pittsburgh, making nine solo tackles and helping on two others. Steve Ogilvie, a defensive
end, is an all-American candidate.

Against Pittsburgh, the Falcons played slowly during the first half, scoring 13 points through two field goals in the first
quarter and a touchdown in the second quarter. They broke the game open in the second half, however, with four
touchdowns in four drives. “It looked like they were kind of playing with Pitt,” Fagg said.

The Davidson team that will meet the Air Force tomorrow has been hurt by injuries. Quarterback Scotty Shipp was knocked
out of the Lenoir Rhyne game with an injured shoulder, and his return is still questionable. “He said he thinks
he can play,” Fagg said, “but we can’t be sure.” In last week's game, John Webel, one of the Cats’
key runners, was knocked out of action with an injured leg.

The Davidsonian
September 29, 1972
Page Nine

Lenoir Rhyne Stuns Gridders; Passing, Defense Prevail
By DAVID MELTON

The Davidson Wildcat football team suffered a blow to its 1972 campaign in a stunning upset at the hands of
Lenoir Rhyne, 41-16. According to quarterback Dave Harper, “We went out there, and it just wasn’t our night.” Harper, filling
in for injured quarterback Scotty Shipp, added, “We made some mistakes early that got the defense in a hole.” It
was a hole that the Cats never climbed out of. Down 41-0, the Cats made somewhat of a comeback. Harper
hit tight-end Bruce Becker with a 28-yard scoring toss, and he again found Becker in theOpen for the two-point conversion,
Dave Harper has stepped up to fill in for Shipp at quarterback, and, as a sophomore, may get a true
baptism of fire at the Air Force game. “Dave plays well, but he’s still young,” Fagg said.

The Wildcats will be setting several new records with the game at Air Force. This is the farthest they have
ever traveled to play a game, and only the second time they have crossed the Mississippi. The Falcons are also
probably the best team overall the Cats have faced since the Tangerine Bowl in 1970. “We see the Air Force
game as a real challenge,” Fagg said. “We like that.”

UNC Letterman Harper stated that the Lenoir Rhyne defense was “keying a lot on Davis and Walker, so we started
throwing to the tight end,” which was Becker. Harper then complimented Becker’s play by saying, “He’s got great hands and
he did a fine job catching the ball.”

During that drive, Harper hit freshman Jeff Heinicka with a beautifully executed screen pass. Heinicka took the pass, and using
his blockers well, scooted down the sidelines. He was caught, however, by a Lenoir defensive back just as he reached
the Lenoir Rhyne 15-yard line. Harper then completed the scoring drive with the touchdown pass to Davis. Following a successful
onside kick, Harper again rallied the team for a score. This time he hit split-end Andy Davis with a five-yard
touchdown pass to end a 50-yard drive. Davis also caught a pass for the two-point conversion.

Injuries also are now plaguing the Wildcats. Running back John Webel sustained an injured ankle while quarterback Scotty Shipp, defensive
end Jimmy Hardison, and running backs Alton McAllum and Dave Ingold were sidelined.

Davidson's passing attack was somewhat of a plus. Harper passed for a total of 274 yards, but the Cats lost
three fumbles and had two passes intercepted by the Bears. The Lenoir Rhyne offense was in control of the game
most of the way. Larry Black, the Bears' quarterback and a transfer from Florida State, unveiled his passing arm for
the first time at Lenoir Rhyne, and kept the Wildcat defense in trouble all night. Lenoir Rhyne also showed great
hustle and talent. Harper reasoned that, “They couldn't do anything wrong."

Stone Takes Over As IMAC Director
By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

Raymond H. “Chip” Stone, new head of the intramural sports program, looks forward to a better than 90 percent participation
in intramural competition for the '72-73 school year. Stone said he intends to add squash, paddle ball, and team handball
to the program.

Stone added that at Chapel Hill the participation in intramurals was unusually high, but was pleasantly surprised at the even
greater interest here at Davidson. He was especially impressed with the popularity of flickerball.

Stone replaces Sterling Martin who will now devote full time to coaching track and cross country. While at UNC-Chapel Hill,
Stone won varsity letters in football, soccer, and baseball. Stone said he now has no interest in coaching a varsity
sport, but does see the need to keep the IMAC a growing program. He will also take over Martin’s position
as head of the physical education program.

STONE ... new IMAC coach.
