Vol. LXI No. Twenty-four The Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 April 14,
1972 (Staff photo by Barnes)

THE MOTION PASSES
President Spencer chairs faculty debate on coeducation.

Faculty Approves EPC Coeducation Proposal
By ALEC HOON
Managing Editor

The drive for coeducation at Davidson cleared a major hurdle on Monday afternoon when the faculty approved the EPC proposal
on Coeducation by a vote of 60-62. The plan will now be sent on to the Executive Committee of the
Trustees, and then to the Board itself for final consideration at their meeting on May 5. College President Samuel R.
Spencer Jr. expressed approval of both the plan itself and of the faculty's decision. “I want to compliment both

Registrar Uses Computer For Fall Term Registration
By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

A new registration system will go into effect this spring whereby students, beginning with seniors, are randomly placed in courses
according to course preference cards, Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. announced this week. On or about April 21 each student
who has paid the tuition deposit for next year will receive, along with other pertinent information, six IBM registration cards.
Placing his name and alpha number on all six, the student will place his first preference for each of his
three classes on three separate cards and his second preferences on the other three. After the cards have been filled
out, students will deposit them in person in the Registrar’s office on May 2, 3, or 4 between 2 p.m.
and 4 p.m. After all of the cards are in, the computer will draw up a random order for all
seniors, juniors, and sophomores, separately, and process them beginning with the Senior Class.

Teaching Evaluated By EPC Committee
By DOUG BROWN
Managing Editor

An ad hoc Committee on Evaluation, chaired by Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, has begun the implementation
of a comprehensive evaluation program of instruction at Davidson. Bevan said, “It is extremely important in a small institution such
as Davidson that we constantly re-evaluate what smallness means in terms of student-faculty relations.” The Committee on Evaluation has discussed
the need for professors to return reviews in a reasonable time period. Bevan explained that this was one of the
indices of the quality of a college. “A student should not have to wait until the day before a review
to get the previous review back,” Bevan said. He pointed out that there are very few faculty members with a
heavy student load. The necessity of having an adequate evaluation of reviews was another topic dealt with by the Committee
on Evaluation. It was the feeling of the committee that a grade on a review was not enough. A grade
was felt to have some symbolic importance, but comments on the returned review were the best way a student could
judge his strengths and weaknesses. The committee also discovered that some professors relied too much on objective testing. “Students should
be able to express themselves in writing. This reflects on the quality of the institution,” commented Bevan. One of the
strengths of a small college should be the accessibility of faculty members, the committee concluded. Consultation should be an integral
part of the educational experience. The Committee on Evaluation (See TEACHING, Page 10)

Processing will be as follows: beginning with the seniors, when the random order has been drawn up, the computer will
go through the cards and give everyone his first choice wherever possible. When the senior cards have been run through
once, the computer will give allJuniors their first choice, again wherever possible, and likewise with the sophomores. All cards having
been processed once, the computer will begin again with the seniors and give the second choice to those who didn’t
get their first, and again likewise with the juniors and sophomores. According to the Registrar’s office, the new system will
make much greater use of the computer, thus maximizing efficiency and equity for all students, as well as reducing the
time and energy necessary for completing registration. From the students’ point of view, it will solve the problem of the
long tiring line. Some students, however, question whether this system will deprive upperclassmen of a certain amount of privilege in
regard to sign-up. This seems to be the only real objection. Commenting on this, Vice President for Academic Affairs John
M. Bevan pointed out that despite the random order prepared by the computer, seniors are still being processed first so
that they are given priority. Bevan also emphasized that upperclassmen who are unable to get needed courses with this system
will be dealt with on an individual basis and will most likely be allowed to break ceilings where necessary. “We
can’t deny that we have a caste system around here and we still try to recognize this,” Bevan said.

The Patterson and Davidson subcommittees conducted a very thorough study. They turned out a proposal which was both logical and
flexible enough to be adjusted to fit changing conditions in the future. “I think that the faculty vote represented a
step in the right direction. I was not, however, surprised by the overwhelming support that the faculty gave the proposal
because of the results of the previous faculty poll,” Spencer said. The actual motion that the faculty passed stated that
the faculty approved the EPC report and received the attached copy of the Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee (BBGC) report
as additional information on the cost estimate. Spencer explained that the faculty accepted it as additional information rather than approved
the BBGC report because it did not want to be committed to the financial guidelines drawn up by the committee
in the possibility that sometime in the future it might not be financially feasible to continue to increase the enrollment
of women at the projected rate. “However, the committee did not intend its part of the report to be used
as a binding commitment, but rather as a probable estimate,” Spencer noted. The proposal sent on to the Trustees may
be amended or it might be left intact. In any case, it represents only general guidelines for coeducation which may
be revamped at any time by the Trustees in the light of changing conditions, Spencer stated. Spencer also reported that
the literature and news releases will be ready to go as soon as the Trustees make their decision, so that
prospective girls can be notified immediately.

Spring Frolics - 1972

Friday, April 15
1 p.m. - 4 p.m. Carnival Rides Union Lawn
8 p.m. Concert: Spencer Davis Love Auditorium
10:15 p.m. Movie: “Elvira Madigan” Morrison Room
Midnight Movie: “Elvira Madigan” Morrison Room

Saturday, April 15
1 p.m. - 4 p.m. Carnival Rides Union Lawn
1 p.m., 6:15 p.m., 11:30 p.m. Uncle Heavy and his Pork Chop Revue Union Lawn
1:30 p.m. - 6 p.m. Beer Party Baseball Field
6 p.m. Barbeque Supper Union Lawn
8:30 p.m. Concert: Mark Almond Love Auditorium
10:15 p.m. Movie: “Elvira Madigan” Morrison Room
10:30 p.m. Night Club: “We The People” and “The Dawsons” Chambers Basement
Midnight Movie: “Elvira Madigan” Morrison Room
2:40 a.m. Breakfast Union Cafeteria
