Page Eight November 10, 1972 The Davidsonian

Grid Lingo Tackles Layman Ignorance

It has come to my attention that people at Davidson do not always know what football players are talking about
because we use a specialized vocabulary. Consequently, for the instruction of the uninstructed, the erudition of the unerudite, the information
of the uninformed, and to teach the wimps, I have compiled the first edition of the Davidson College NCAA Major
College Abridged Wildcat Dictionary.

DAWN PATROL -- This is not to be confused with the Errol Flynn movie of the same name except that
this too is suicide. In the event that one has broken training rules, he is led out upon the practice
field in full gear in the early morning hours to be executed. Actually, one is not really killed. One is
asked merely to perform a certain routine which is guaranteed to make you blow your cookies, i.e., barf up. However,
if they have to name it after a movie, they ought to call it BEAU GESTE, with anyone or more
of the coaches starring as Sergeant Deveraux.

HOUR -- an arbitrary period of time determined by Coach David Fagg lasting 65-85 minutes Greenwich Mean Time. (see Wildcat
time)

FIGHTERS, WILD HORSE RIDERS -- any and all members of the Wildcat football team. By inference, this means each football
player is, by degrees, part George Armstrong Custer, part Attila the Hun, and part Don Juan Tenorio.

FAR TIP DRILL -- this is an exercise designed to improve downfield pass coverage. However, it is predicated upon the
hunch that the football field will someday become several leagues long. First, two defensive backs run a mile or two
downfield. When they are somewhere on the horizon, Coach Mosketti the Howitzer launches the ball in their direction. One then
tips the ball to the other. This is similar to the internationally famous game of cross-country volleyball to be instituted
in the 1976 Olympics.

FOUR-FORTY -- this is just one time around the track at a dead run. The reason it is called a
dead run is because...

Delts Gain Wrestling Crown, Capture Third IMAC Title

The Delts made it three straight Thursday night as they captured the wrestling tournament. Led by Dave Mast and Pat
Cochran, the Delts took two firsts, two seconds, and a third to score 48 points. Pax came in second with
41 points and the SPEs placed a strong third with 40½.

The first two matches of the evening showed Tim Walker of Sigma Phi Epsilon winning the 126 lbs. class and
freshman Bill Lloyd of Sentelle 1 taking the title at 134 lbs. The 142 lb. match included some of the
classiest wrestling this side of the varsity. Steve Pharr, C.A. and Bucky's pick for "Stud of the Tournament," whipped a
very game John Hornickle 12-0. Dave Kitchin of WI came out on top in the 150 lb. class and Independent
Ed Pressley burned his way to the 150 lb. title.

The final match between heavyweights Steve Phillips and Dwight Pleamons was a classic example of brains vs. brawn. Pleamons, with
virtually no knowledge of college wrestling, almost beat Phillips on sheer strength before Phillips’ superior tactical knowledge caused Pleamons to
be trapped and pinned. Had the back-breaker or the cocobut been legal, Dwight would be wearing the crown today.

892-8468 Mon. - Fri. 9 - 5:30

tastee-freez of Cornelius

BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET “It’s Incomparable” Sandwiches — Pizza Sundaes 50 FLAVOR SHAKES

THE HUB OPEN:

IMAC REPORT with BUCKY AND CAPTAIN AMERICA

The IMAC flickerball all-stars were...Picked last week and once again the Delts led the way with ten selections. A number
of teams had three picks each. In league B, Allen and Benton were the tailbacks, Baird, Mehlan, and Bressler the
halfbacks, and Brown and Deese were the ends. Dave Mast was the pick for center and Bill McIlwain the choice
at guard. On the league B defense were McCann, rusher, Huffine and Banta at the end slots, Lewis at linebacker
and Weaver, Kelly, Curtiss, Young, and Earp as defensive backs. The reason there are more people than positions is that
often there was a tie in the voting. The league A team had Ely at tailback, Alexander and Cardwell at
halfback, Sharenko, Pleamons, and Horowitz as ends, Gardner at guard and Parham at center.

The defense consisted of Horton at rusher, Gadaire and Jorgenson at the ends, Griffiths at linebacker and Ely, Brandon, and
Bucky at defensive back.

CAMERAS PHOTO SUPPLIES DARK ROOM EQUIPMENT RECORDS TAPES SOUND EQUIPMENT Hi-Fi Camera Center Charlottetown Mall

Becker’s World

WITH Bruce Becker somewhere on the last turn you die. You see, lurking somewhere in the bushes next to the
gym is a gorilla named Lucius. Every time you pass those bushes running a 440, Lucius sprints out and jumps
on your back. During the winter months, Lucius goes inside and hides in the universal gym in the weight room.
His partner, Ed, takes over outside. Ed's a polar bear so he doesn’t mind the cold. It is notable that
the coaches never tell any of the high school recruits about Lucius and Ed.

GREEN - any lime or orange flavored drink which makes you thirstier the more you drink. The reason it is
flavored is that we wouldn't drink it if we could taste what was in it.

HAIR - any facial or capital growth deemed unnecessary by the Wildcat football staff.

PLATFORM - nobody knows what this is. Coach Tall is always telling the quarterbacks to watch it. It must be
something like snipe.

RED CROSS SQUAD - Davidson's answer to the death march at Bataan. The atrocities are presided over by Coach Tom
Couch. Coach Couch is probably the greatest healer since both the Mayo Clinic and Oral Roberts put together. He knows
how to apply just the right amount of “medication” to make you heal yourself faster than anything you have ever
done in your life.

“TUCK IT AND RUN” - magic words whereby a pass receiver transforms himself (a la Victor Frankenstein) into Jimmy Brown
and proceeds to bulldoze any prospective tackler. Because of my own lack of strength at the enunciation of these words,
I generally become a pumpkin.

WILDCAT TIME - somewhere in the reality of the present, the dream of the future, and the memory of the
past lies the twilight zone known as Wildcat time. There is no time in Wildcat time. It is somewhere between
Eastern and Central Standard Time and it can be found by stepping onto the football practice field. In Wildcat time
it is always “just about that time.” It is the official time of Becker's world.

JEWELRY - Jewelers of trusted reputation for 3 generations 241 N. Main St.

Christmas creations a la Black Forest, handmade in Hawaii from original, three-dimensional designs to delight the collector. For treasured gifts,
choose from over 200 items, each hand-painted in gay Christmas colors. Our catalog sent on request. Send $1 Dep. Refundable.
ORDERS AIRMAILED WITHIN 48 HOURS OF RECEIPT. A. ALEXANDER CO., 98 Riverside Drive, New York, N.Y.
