Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Vol. LXI No. Twenty-six Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 April 28, 1972

Spring Awards Convocation Today
By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

With the tide of preparations of all members of the Davidson College community for the long-awaited summer vacation comes the
annual Spring Awards Convocation, which will be held today at 11 a.m. in Love Auditorium. Highlighting this year’s ceremony, along
with the presentation of various student awards, will be the conferring of honorary Doctor of Laws degrees to Walter L.
Lingle Jr., Joseph H. McConnell, and Samuel J. Ervin.

Lingle, son of former President of Davidson College Rev. Walter Lee Lingle, graduated from Davidson in 1928 and served as
chairman of the Board of Trustees from 1955 until 1970. A former Executive Vice President of the Proctor and Gamble
Company, Lingle is currently President of the Davidson College National Alumni Association.

After graduating from Davidson in 1927, McConnell, son of former Dean of Faculty of Davidson College Joseph M. McConnell, went
on to receive a law degree from the University of Virginia. Now serving as Rector of the University of Virginia
and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Comsat Corporation, McConnell is a former president of Reynolds Metals, NBC, and
Colgate-Palmolive.

Ervin is currently the senior United States Senator from North Carolina and a former Associate Justice of the North Carolina
Supreme Court. He also served on the Board of Trustees from 1948 until 1958. Ervin, in particular, is being honored
for his consistent stand in Washington on individual liberties. It was he who chaired the Senate subcommittee given the task
of looking into the issue of military surveillance of civilians last year.

The student awards to be presented at the convocation are as follows:

The David Howard Chemistry Award is given annually to the rising senior studying chemistry who gives promise of the greatest
degree of usefulness in some service requiring a knowledge of chemistry.

The Sandy Black Memorial Award will be presented to the most outstanding rising senior pre-medical student.

The A. K. Phifer Scholarship will go to the upperclassman who has most distinguished himself in the study of economics.

The George L. Gladstone Award will be presented to the rising senior who has exhibited the highest potential for future
service to mankind.

The National Young American Award will be presented by the Mecklenburg Council of the Boy Scouts of America.

The Tommy Peters Award will be awarded to the athlete who best typifies campus leadership and the Davidson spirit of
athletic competition.

Davidson Notes
Winn Wins Award
Jim Winn has won the Vereen Bell Creative Writing Award for his story “Where The Kids Hang Out.” Dabney Stuart
‘60 selected Winn. Frank Soos received second place. Lee Fowlkes and Peter Graham won honorable mentions.

Crime and Punishment
“Does Punishment Deter Crime or Should We Lock Them Up for a Thousand Years?” will be the title for a
two-lecture symposium on crime causation on Tuesday, May 2, at 9 p.m. in the Union Green Room. The first lecture,
entitled “A Correctional View of Crime Causation,” will be delivered by Jerry Allen, Regional Director of the North Carolina Dept.
of Corrections in Charlotte. Next, Skip Greathouse, a Davidson Economics major, will present his paper entitled “Do Criminals Make Cost-Benefit
Comparisons?” Afterwards, a discussion session will be led by Davidson professors Samuel D. Maloney and Alexander J. McKelway of the
Religion Dept., and Robert D. Ruth of the Sociology Dept.

Class Schedule Changes
Richard C. Burts Jr. has announced several changes in the Class Schedule for the 1972 fall term. Art 145, “Painting,”
taught by Professor Houchens and Psychology 161 “Systems” taught by Professor Walls, have been added at 2 p.m. Math 301
and English 131 have been dropped. Philosophy 105 will be taught by Professor MacCormac, and Philosophy 162 has been changed
to Philosophy 104. Biology 122, “Higher Groups” has been added at 8 a.m. and Biology 121 has been dropped.Award will
be given to the student who is most outstanding in dedication and contribution to intercollegiate athletics. The final award presentation

ERVIN

Inadequate Evaluation Of Appears As Flaw In Tenure System

By PHILLIP BISHOP
Contributing Editor

Incorporated into the tenure system at Davidson? Often none at all, answered several professors in interviews this week. "Personally, I
feel there was very little effort to evaluate me when I became eligible for tenure," said one professor. Another admitted,
"For years at Davidson, as long as a professor kept quiet and went to church, he would be awarded tenure."
A third added, "Until recently, a professor had to be outstandingly bad not to achieve tenure."

Why has Davidson, which claims faculty quality as a strength, so neglected the need to evaluate its professors? The answer
seems to lie in conflict between faculty and administration. Major responsibility for faculty evaluation at Davidson lies with the administration,
and the academic vice president has traditionally determined the methods and criteria determining tenure qualification. Thus, although the faculty may
take part in the evaluation process, the nature of the procedure is controlled by the administration; and any effort to
toughen the criteria may meet with faculty opposition.

The typical faculty attitude seems to be that of one professor who said he "would feel oppressed if someone constantly
questioned my work" and he was wary of systematizing faculty evaluation.

The quality award will be that of the Agnes Sentelle Brown Award, given to some upperclassman selected for his outstanding
promise based on character, personality, intellectual ability, and scholarship. President of the College Samuel R. Spencer Jr. will also announce
the selections of Omicron Delta Kappa after the above awards have been given out.

LINGLE

Other professors, however, feel an urgent need "to better articulate the evaluation process," as German Professor Hansford Epes Jr. said.
"It’s in the self-interest of the faculty to develop a scheme of appraising our own competence and educational interests," remarked
Philosophy Professor Earl MacCormac.

The current "scheme of appraisal," as described by Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, involves a significant faculty
contribution but still centers in Bevan’s office. Bevan said he receives each spring a report from the department chairman on
his professors, including an assessment of the man’s teaching ability and a report on his scholarship in the past year.
In any consideration of contract renewal or tenure, Bevan includes this report, his own personal opinion of the new professor
and also any student opinion he may "hear about," Bevan related. If the professor is eligible for tenure, he appears
before the Educational Policy Committee of the Board of Trustees for a brief interview, said Bevan. Tenure is officially awarded
on the administration’s recommendation.

Obviously, such an informal system has serious drawbacks; one is what MacCormac called "the enormous power of the academic vice
president in personal matters" combined with a lack of formal intra-faculty evaluation. The present system depends heavily upon the academic
vice president’s fairness and energy in assessing faculty performance, and the failure of past faculty deans is evident in faculty
criticism of Davidson’s system. The present administration has improved the evaluation process by increasing faculty input and encouraging professional development.
"The Honors College, the Woods Hole project and grant money for individual projects are just a few of the opportunities
for faculty to broaden their professional interests," added Bevan.

Yet administration influence in requiring a professor’s continued development after tenure is limited. Bevan admitted that "to gain evidence of
academic incompetence would require the full cooperation of the faculty." Because, as Epes remarked, "faculty members are in the best
position to evaluate their colleagues," the faculty also must bear a formal responsibility in the appraisal process. The lack of
such a formal role has often led tenured professors "to withdraw into their own ivory towers and never come out,"
according to MacCormac.

Another shortcoming of the present evaluation system is (See EVALUATION, Page 2)
