Che Bauvidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
OCTOBER 20, 1972

Cry of Frustration

Demands are not a pleasant thing. They normally come as the result of broken promises, needless delay in meeting repeated
requests for action, or frustration in gaining desired ends in any other way. Davidson’s black students, speaking through their college-recognized
Black Student Coalition, have submitted a list of 10 demands to the college which, they say, will determine whether or
not Davidson will continue to have blacks in its student body after this year.

For a number of years blacks have made their needs and aspirations known to the administration in less militant, though
apparently less effective, ways. They have met with tokenism, procrastination, and the usual glowing promises. Although we now have a
new black secretary and a black admissions officer, neither have any direct connection with the average Davidson student. Several black
faculty members are essential for attracting blacks here and for counseling them once they arrive. Library holdings in black studies
are not appreciably better than they were when the first blacks registered for their first classes a good many years
ago. A black studies department, whether a good idea or not, has not had the study and investigation put into
it that such a valid request merits.

The college has had sufficient time to meet at least an appreciable number of the valid complaints that black students
have made. Numerous faculty members have been hired in the time Davidson has had black students, giving the college sufficient
time to draw outstanding black educators from a growing pool of qualified people in a large number of disciplines. Library
holdings seem a rather simple, justifiable thing to provide. And a full-scale faculty-student committee to investigate the possibilities of black
studies is easy enough to form. But Davidson has failed to meet these and other valid complaints of black students.
The present effort for exact action rather than promises from the college is not a rash, ill-thought-out effort at intimidation,
but rather an expression of real frustration. We hope the faculty administration recognizes it as such and moves to meet
some of these demands.

Without A Doctor

Since the departure of Davidson physician William Davis to the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Davidson College has been
without a permanent campus doctor. The loss is even more significant when one realizes that his absence leaves the North
Mecklenburg area with only two doctors, both of whom are of retirement age. The number of student conferences which result
in personal medical advice which cannot be comfortably or adequately discussed with a nurse, and the possibility of serious injury
requiring immediate emergency attention make a rapid solution to this problem of utmost importance.

Plans are presently under way to try to provide a four-doctor clinic for the North Mecklenburg area. Davidson College would
draw on the doctors of the clinic to meet student health care needs. Such plans seem a good effort by
college and community to satisfy a real health care problem. But such a clinic obviously takes time to develop, and
while this time is spent Davidson students may go without adequate care if ill health should incapacitate either Dr. Gudger
or Dr. Woods. An interim solution must be forthcoming to alleviate this situation. The college cannot expect area doctors to
lend a hand in meeting college needs forever, nor can they wait in hopes of some solution from the community.

Jackson and Kaneklides Do Their Song and Dance

Hottest Thing On The Market Makes It With ‘Sex’ Comedy

A REVIEW By BOB WRIGHT Staff Writer

Once upon a time, in the land of Odd, there lived a handsome young lunatic by the name of Woody
Allen. Now it so happened that this same Woody Allen was considered by many to be the “hottest-thing-on-the-market,” this meaning
that many, many people would pay their hardearned money to watch Woody

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

Gold and Fizdale open the Community Concert series in Ovens Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. tonight. Admission to the duo-pianists concert
is by season ticket only. Tickets begin at $10 and are good for the five concerts of the season.

“The Organizer” with Marcello Mastroianni continues the Kino Fine Film series this Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Circle Theatre
of the Mint Museum of Art. Admission is by season ticket only.

Peter Max is showing his works at the McDonald Gallery in Charlotte through Nov. 3. The gallery is open from
10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday. There is no admission charge.

“Don't Drink the Water” continues at the Pineville Dinner Theatre through Oct. 29 with performances nightly except Monday. The buffet
opens at 7 p.m. with the curtain rising at 8:30. Tickets are $7 to $10.

| Entertainment |

perform his odd tricks. So one fine day three Burly Businessmen came to see Woody and made him a proposition.

Burly Businessman 1: “Hotcha, Woody baby. Have we got a deal for you.”
B. B. 2: “You're the hottest thing on the market, Woody.”
B. B. 3: “So we'd like you to make a movie for us. You've heard, of course, of the big
best seller ‘Everything You've Always Wanted To Know About Sex But Were Afraid to Ask!’ Well, we want you to
make a movie from that book.”

B. B. 1: “The hottest thing on the market and a big best seller! How can we lose?”
B. B. 2: “We can't.”

So, the dealers of celluloid made their deal for Woody and “SEX” and went away. Woody, being the picky type,
sat down and read the aforementioned big best seller. This convinced him that the only way to make a movie
from this book was to discard the text completely and let his own odd mind come up with a screenplay.
This he did.

The result was a two-hour study of Woody's conception of sodomy, aphrodisia, transvestitism, sex research, ejaculation, vibrators, and the history
of sex throughout most of the Western world as recorded on film. It was a very funny movie, but old
ladies were inclined to leave after the first 6½ minutes (about the time Lynn Redgrave said “cop a feel,” which
is about as graphic as the film gets). Woody played many roles in the film including a horny court jester,
a horny Italian with a frigid wife, the man who saved the world from annihilation by a giant tit, and
a sperm cell with the pre-ejaculatory jitters.

What “Everything” became on film was the first SEX comedy that is a comical look at sexual activity in many
of its varied forms. Unlike so many of its predecessors, the film did not at all sneak around sex. It
plopped right on top of it and stared openly, frequently howling with laughter. And if you go and see Woody's
movie, you will too, that is, if you can stand to hear Lynn Redgrave say “cop a feel.” The Burly
Businessmen are happy. Why shouldn't you be too?

“Under The Yum Yum Tree” continues at the Independence Dinner Theatre. The buffet opens at 6:30 p.m. with the curtain
rising at 8:30. Tickets are $8 Thursday and $9 Friday and Saturday.

“Rousseau” will continue the “Pioneers of Modern Painting” film series with showings Sunday and Monday nights at 8:15 p.m. in
Dana Auditorium at Queens College. There is no admission charge.

Paintings by Mary Ellen Little will be exhibited in Carol Hall at Queens College through Nov. 14.

Glimpses into the Orient continues to present Chinese hanging scrolls in the Dwelle Gallery, Persian tribal rugs in the Round
Gallery, and Japanese art in the Garden Gallery of the Mint Museum of Art. There is no admission charge.

Paintings by John McIver are on exhibit in Gallery 501 of the Mint Museum of Art through Oct. 29. His
watercolors and acrylics are available for sale or rental.
