“WOMAN IN TIN” Participants make sculpture and display “it”. The Davidsonian November 3, 1972 Page Five Mullen Directs Aluminum Foil Happening Amidst Elm Trees A REVIEW By GARY GARVIN Staff Writer There were about twenty boxes of tin foil. Stranger things have happened here, I suppose - but were they art? Under the direction of Phillip Mullen (whose drawings are on exhibit in Stowe Galleries) Davidson witnessed a “happening.” A happening is literally an event in which an artist arranges people and things in an environment as materials for his composition. Using this kind of medium, the artist can only have so much control: he can only start it, and then it happens. In this case, Mullen had students wrapped in tin foil. He divided the spectators into six groups of five. Each group was instructed to wrap one of its members entirely in foil and leave it alone in a selected spot on campus for 10 minutes. They wrapped me up in tin foil. For the person being wrapped, it was a dehumanizing experience. Completely covered with foil, he was turned into an object. He became immobile and isolated from the outside world. In fact, Mullen pointed out that the person was eventually referred to as “it” by the other members of the group. John Magee, one such object, said that people came up to him, asking if the thing (John) was real or breathed. We wrapped this guy up in tin Nixon Supporter Proclaimed As Leftist; ‘Boys Will Be Boys’ Statement Defended To The Editor: I was amazed to see the results of the straw polls that were announced in your September 29 issue. For a school with the fine reputation that Davidson has, it is alarming to find that at least 320 students are more intelligent than at least 45 professors. It’s often said that some of the teachers in the schools today wouldn't know enough to come in out of the rain. Could be! Your paper is great and we look forward to reading it even when the news is distressing! Mrs. Charles McCartney Pelham Manor, N. Y. To the Editor: I always hate to find a leftist attempting to make people believe that he is not a radical. I am, of course, alluding to the Letter to the Editor of October 27, from Mr. E. P. Thornton. He attempted, throughout his letter, to make us believe that he is not a leftist. The format of the letter and the old, tiresome usage of language makes Mr. Thornton appear as an arch-conservative. The ideas conveyed, however, betray his secret. His letter attacks both Richard Nixon and George McGovern, but at the same time, tells us to support that leftist, radical Nixon. Where is his faith in the right of the right that he would demonstrate if he were truly right? If he were not a radical leftist, he would support the candidacy of Our Schmitz. Mr. Thornton's belief that “college students are utterly stupid and incredibly naive” could only account for his attempt to prove that he is not a leftist. At one point in the letter, he blatantly admits his radical position by admitting that Professor E. F. Patterson, the known leftist, encourages him! Is Mr. Thornton not trying to divert our attention and make us vote for a left-wing, radical candidate? Not only should people write to President Nixon as Mr. Thornton suggested, we should also write to Mr. Thornton: “You declared yourself a member of the Davidson Community, emeritus; why us?” The only true answer is that the leftists are trying to take over the world. Mr. Thornton's last paragraph best exemplifies his attitude toward people in the right wing: “Proof of the above asinine and boot-licking statements will be sent by me on request.” This is typical leftist slander about true, right-wing statements. I, on the other hand, offer no proof of my asinine statements. Alan F. Blakley ‘74 Davidson College By LANA STARNES and DR. TAKEY CRIST Question: Is it advisable or is it harmful to have sexual intercourse during your menstrual period? Also, I have always been very irregular; my periods range from four to six weeks apart and even eight weeks apart twice, and last for four to five days, never more. Is this an indication that something is wrong? --Signed, D.C. Dear D.C.: As to the advisability of having intercourse during a menstrual cycle, we leave that up to the individual couples involved. We know of no scientific evidence that has reported “harm” in having sexual intercourse during a menstrual period. With regards to your irregularity, please see your local physician. Question: Last year, I took birth control pills for three months, and did not have a period during that time. My doctor said it was unusual, but not harmful. I stopped taking the pills, and then had a period two months later. My question is that I would like to take the pills again, but I am afraid of what they are doing to my system. Could you please comment on this -- or suggest someone who could tell me exactly what my problem is? --Signed, Was Scared. DearWas Scared: It is not unusual for a patient that is on birth control pills to have scanty periods or to miss a period. We suggest that before you start on the pills again, however, that you see a physician either in the Health Education Clinic or student infirmary for a thorough physical examination and repeat cancer smear.

Question: In your article of Monday, September 20, 1971, you answered a question from "Inquisitive Reader" regarding male circumcision in older males. I am approximately six years older than Inquisitive and on the verge of getting married next year and am considering the same operation; however, some of the comments I have heard regarding the long and painful convalescence period have held me back. How long is the convalescence period and how painful will this time period be for an older male? Also, how long must the male remain in the hospital? --Signed, Abhors pain and suffering.

Dear Abhors pain and suffering: The convalescence period usually lasts from three to four weeks. The pain varies with the individual. At the present time circumcisions are done in the hospital and the patient stays in the hospital overnight.

To the Editor: Your responsible reporting of various campus political activities in last week's DAVIDSONIAN was welcomed as excellent coverage of the subject. However, I am impelled to clarify my statement of "boys will be boys" with regard to charges of corruption. Briefly explaining my position on this matter, I will merely quote a September 1, 1972 statement by Gary Hart, Campaign Director of the McGovern for President effort, “I don't think it's any more legitimate, as I indicated a few days ago, to hold George McGovern accountable for organizational problems in the campaign than it is to hold Richard Nixon directly accountable for the burglars in Watergate." George A. Kaneklides ‘73 Davidson College

Then there were the other members of the group, the dehumanizers. They had their object sit on a stool and decided on a pose for it. In a group effort, they then proceeded to cover it up. For them, body is a thing to be covered, no flesh allowed. From the galleries, they carried their bland icons in a solemn procession to its location. They then dispersed, though keeping watch to see how others reacted to it.

What's that thing in front of Eu Hall? These foil statues remind me of some of George Segal's works. He creates white plaster-covered statues (no one inside) and places them in a setting of real objects. Both metal and plaster statues seem real, as they portray accurate anatomy and natural pose and posture. Yet, having such an unnatural surface, both seem unreal, rigid images displaced from time and setting. I think we oughta shoot it.

Most interesting of all were the reactions by those outside of the happening to these quirks in their environment. Apparently, seeing a person wrapped in foil in Elm Row was not so much an aesthetic sight as it was a disruption in the fixed conceptions of those who passed by. The statues became something they reacted to or against. Most were slightly bewildered, but kept on walking. For others, the statues were things that had to be explained, touched, manipulated to explain their presence. Some even reacted hostilely to the objects, as if the things were an affront to their intelligence. John said students considered throwing things at him or kicking him. One girl came up to him and said, "Buddy, I don’t know what your problem is, but you're strange."

The surgeon's fee runs somewhere between $70 and $80, however, this may be misleading since other costs have to be figured in. This could include recovery room fee, use of hospital bed, anesthesia time, and laboratory fees. This could bring the cost up to somewhere between $200 and $300. We understand that plans are being made to start doing circumcisions in the clinic and this would certainly reduce the cost considerably. Please contact the Urology department of N.C. Memorial Hospital for further details.

Question: Whenever my girlfriend and I make love I am hampered by premature ejaculation, especially as I do not use a condom. My ejaculation will usually occur two minutes after I have entered (often less). If we practice fellatio the time required for me to ejaculate is greatly increased. Is there any solution for my problem, as my "quickies" leave my girlfriend very unsatisfied and/or frustrated. -- Signed, D. W. P.

Dear D. W. P.: There is a solution to your problem. Treatment is available based on the work done by Masters and Johnson using the principle of sensate focus and a maneuver called the “squeeze technique.” Professional help is required. The results of treatment reported by Masters and Johnson have been quite impressive. Of the 186 men that were treated at the foundation, there were only four failures.

(Questions should be addressed to Lana Starnes and Dr. Takey Crist, in care of The Daily Tar Heel, Student Union, Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514.)

COPYRIGHT (©) 1971 by Lana Starnes and Dr. Takey Crist. All rights reserved.