Page Ten March 24, 1972

The Davidsonian

Up ’n Coming

Friday, March 24
8 & 10 p.m. Hungry I: “Fried Chicken and Watermelon” Morrison Room

Saturday, March 25
8 p.m. Concert: Nils Lofgren & Grin Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Hungry I: “Fried Chicken and Watermelon” Morrison Room

Monday, March 27
10 a.m. Film: “Don Juan in Hell” Love Auditorium
10:05 a.m. Sophomore Medical-Dental Aspirants 20 Martin Science
8 p.m. Staley Lecturer: Dr. John Haggai “In Christ There Is an East and West” Morrison Room

Tuesday, March 28
10 a.m. Staley Lecturer: Dr. John Haggai “Jesus Christ Super-What?” Morrison Room
noon Lunch Film: “Three Black Writers” Morrison Room

Wednesday, March 29
noon Lunch Film: “Three Black Writers” Morrison Room
8 p.m. “Technicolor Passion” Dr. Clark's Slides Morrison Room
9 p.m. Fine Film: “Duck Soup” Love Auditorium

Thursday, March 30
7 p.m. Film: “Over There” Love Auditorium
9 p.m. Hungry I: Robin Williams Morrison Room

Friday, March 31
10 a.m. Dr. Douglas Heath, Psychologist at Haverford College Morrison Room
2 p.m. Open End: Dr. Douglas Heath Morrison Room

Synod Launches Fund Drive For Davidson, Queens College
By BRUCE MALOY Staff Writer

At the present time, a campaign sponsored by the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina is underway to solicit funds for Queens College and Davidson. The campaign will seek donations from individuals, Presbyterian-related foundations, and selected Charlotte businesses starting Jan. 1, 1972, and from Presbyterians in N.C. from July 1, 1972, to June 30, 1973.

A joint statement released by Davidson President Samuel R. Spencer and Queens President John E. Smylie stated that “Queens and Davidson share a joint heritage, a joint purpose, and joint constituencies. Both institutions were initiated by the Presbyterian Church and maintain their basic Church commitment.

“At this time in their histories, both institutions need millions of dollars of capital in the form of permanent endowment and new facilities if they are to continue to provide a liberal arts education of the highest quality.”

Faculty Power Monopoly no effective (Continued From Page 1)

The body is so amorphous to begin with, there is no real possibility to hold it responsible. This is especially true in the current debate over the value of Extended Studies. It was the faculty that approved this program and that presently is administering it; yet they blame the administration and students for the lack of quality work produced in the program. For all intents and purposes,

Coeducation (Continued From Page 1)

his subcommittee, so he has actually had as much time to prepare a report as we have. It's clear that they have done very little work, if any.”

The EPC also took up several other issues in that meeting. Bevan said that the EPC would like to broaden the definition of a “student on leave” from just being a student studying at another institution, to a definition giving some consideration to students who withdraw from Davidson. He said Davidson should keep in touch with students who withdraw and encourage them to return if they want to. “Students who drop out feel thatthey may be lost in the shuffle with freshman applications if they try to return,” he said. “We want to see that, as former students, their applications are given special consideration.”

Action was taken on the problem of transfer credits also. As it now stands, Bevan said, any course from any accredited institution which is equal in quality and of the same type as a course which “might be offered at Davidson,” will transfer as a “P” or “C.”

The faculty has leadership which can pilot pieces of legislation through; consequently, the faculty abdicates its role as a legislative body and becomes a mere debating society. Meanwhile, Davidson stagnates.

A fourth side effect is the lack of communication and persistent misunderstanding among the constituencies. The present governance system encourages after-the-fact consultation as well as confusion as to who is to make what decision. The result of this monopoly has been a lack of faith and loyalty in the college not only from students and administrators, but also from many faculty members as well. There is no longer any common interest among the constituencies, no productive morale, no mutual respect, no understanding, no patience. Instead of a governance system which encourages unity, harmony, and consensus, this college is stuck with a system that countenances permanent conflict, self-interest, and suspicion.

CERTAINLY THE FACULTY AS A BODY OF MEN IS NOT TO BLAME FOR THIS CONDITION, BUT IT IS THE FACULTY CONSTITUTION THAT HAS CAUSED THE FACTIONALISM. As long as this set of rules remains in effect, the administration and students will continue to challenge and whittle away at faculty monopoly of authority. And as long as this process of king of the mountain continues, there will be no happiness or progress in Davidson.

Development Davidson College Director of D. L. Winston summed up the campaign by saying, “The scope of the campaign is to approach friends in North Carolina who are interested in Davidson and Queens. The primary objectives are to complete funding of the E. H. Little Library, to increase endowment, and to secure funds for union facilities.” Winston went on to state that “This does not necessarily mean that these funds will be used to build a new union; depending on our needs that become apparent in the next few years, an existing building might be renovated.” Winston further stated that an increase in endowment was essential to hold the line against tuition increases, since the cost of an education has been rising at 10 percent per year for the past four or five years.

Chairman of the fund is Graeme M. Keith of Charlotte, executive vice president of the First Union National Bank of North Carolina. Keith chaired a committee that promoted a $13.9 million bond issue in Charlotte in 1966. Keith is a Davidson alumnus.

GALLEY FISH CAMP
Fresh Fish-Steaks
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

The Dress-Up SEASON
Come see our SUITS, SPORTCOATS, SLACKS by famous makers in new polyester knit patterns and solids.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS -- USE YOUR AUTOMATIC CHARGE ACCOUNT

JEANS—denims, See Our New Arrivals
WE in Campus Clothes
KNIT SHIRTS—all types
tank tops, shaved corduroy, and knits.
WIDE BELTS
BOOTS
SWIM SUITS

See HOWARD DANIEL ’72
MITCHELL MACK ’42
John Mock & Son
Our 60th Year
Mooresville