The Davidsonian

April 28, 1972

Page Nine

Turner: ‘Preachers Are Human, Too’

By BRUCE BECKER
Staff Writer

“Don't forget about the splinters, Brucer.”

Mr. Ray Turner gets a kick out of how I call sitting on the bench—"collecting splinters in my ass.” So
he always asks me after every article why there was nothing in there about the splinters. I promised him it
would be in this one.

Ray Turner is the equipment manager for the athletic department. He does all the washing, repairing, and issuing for all
the intercollegiate sports.

He is a scrappy, wiry little man, who looks like he moonlights as a gas station manager. Although he is
meek and unpretentious, Mr. T. is the only member of the Davidson community who is always addressed as “Stud,” pronounced
in a squeal, “Steeewwwed.” You'll know he’s heard you because he'll go, “Awwrriiite.”

Mr. Turner can eat more than any man his size on campus. Junior Barker told me he used to take
Mr. T. to fish fries on Saturday night. “When Ray eats, you can forget about just two. Ray starts on
three helpings of flounder.”

Mr. Turner is also a free-lance Baptist preacher. He knows his stuff, too.

He gets up on the pulpit and he walks back and forth. He delivers his sermon like Billy Graham.

“It's all right if you perspire,” says Mr. T. “A preacher ought to sweat if he has to.”

Like all of us, though, Mr. Turner is a little eccentric.

A few years ago during the football season a couple bottles of brown liquid appeared in his office. Mr. Turner
didn’t know what it was so he polished the coaches’ shoes with it. The shine was not too good.

When Coach Couch walked in he was rubbing like mad. Couch told him he was using last Saturday’s iced tea
and Mr. Turner felt a little foolish.

Mr. Turner's vice is women. A well-built visitor from UNCC used to use the swimming pool for safety instruction.

Once, when she walked into the hall wearing nothing but her bikini, Mr. T. was casting appreciative glances.

Distractedly, he said to Junior Barker, “Junior, did you ever try to wrap a shoelace around a pair of watermelons?”

Mr. Turner used to complain about his back until last summer when a pretty 16-year-old was too tired to walk
up the gym stairs. He offered to carry her up. She accepted. When released at the top, she smiled and
teased, “You dirty ol’ man.”

Mr. T. looked sort of sheepish, but like he says, “Preachers are humans, too.”

There has been a rumor going around campus that Tom Scott will retire in the near future as director of
Davidson athletics. When he does, my vote for his successor will go to Mr. Ray Turner.

---

Then we'll have this other set-up like a full-line buffeteria. You pay one price for the whole works. And you
get unlimited seconds on just about everything.

You can get short orders or full meals like your mother fixes.

Our old place gets razed this summer. So we're getting three new ones. All on Patterson Court. Each different.

One is a deli grill. It’s gonna serve all kinds of hot and cold sandwiches. Kosher style. And in the
evenings our deli will double as a steak house. American style.

Another place will be a cafeteria/snack bar where you can get short orders or full meals like your mother fixes.

Davidson Dining Service
