Che Bauvidsonian

"THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING." —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR APRIL 28, 1972

Convocation Support

This morning at 11 a.m. in Love Auditorium the academic community of Davidson will assemble to honor students and faculty who have distinguished themselves in service to the college as well as to honor three men who have given much of their time, money, and energy in service to Davidson and our society.

To most students, convocations appear to be a rather stodgy affair where faculty flock in flowing robes, and where some “great man” delivers a dry and boring speech about the challenge which institutions of higher learning must face in the years ahead. The result of this closed-minded stereotype of convocations is usually a noticeable lack of students in attendance. We feel this to be a tragic situation.

It was students who first encouraged the idea of a Spring Convocation because they desired an opportunity for the academic community to unite and truly act like a community. The administration has no great love for convocations as such extravaganzas usually cost quite a bit of money. If students say they want to be a part of the academic community, then they have a responsibility and a moral obligation to support the functions of the community.

Today the community honors three men who have distinguished themselves in a number of ways. Walter Lingle has devoted years of service to the college as chairman of the Board of Trustees, president of the Alumni Association, and current chairman of the Trustee Governance Committee. Though Lingle never lived in Davidson himself, except as a student, every major project of both town and college continues to have his financial and moral support. Senator Sam Ervin, a former Davidson trustee, has proven himself a stalwart protector of individual constitutional rights on the Senate judiciary committee. And Joseph McConnell, an alumnus of Davidson, has served as president of three major U.S. corporations and is presently the chairman of the Communication Satellite Corporation.

We feel that these men are wise choices for Davidson honorary doctor of laws degrees, and their presence on the Davidson campus this weekend is an honor for the college. We hope that students will not look upon today as a holiday from classes so that they can begin the weekend early, but instead, we hope they will fulfill their obligation as a member of the Davidson community to attend convocation.

A Meaningful Class Gift

We would like to urge all seniors to contribute to their class project, the student loan fund, as their final legacy to Davidson College. The student loan fund, conceived by a committee of 20 seniors appointed by class president Bill Lear, represents a worthwhile effort on the part of the seniors to leave a useful gift to the college.

In the past, graduating classes have bequeathed such appreciated, but virtually useless gifts as benches, flagpole plaques, and signs. This year’s gift is a timely and welcome break from such traditions. An ambitious goal of $10,000 has been set for the fund, to be collected in units of $10 per year for five years by 200 members of the Senior Class. Eventually, when the $10,000 has been raised, $500 loans will be available at an interest rate of only three percent a year.

The obvious problem facing all involved is the actual collection of the money over the five-year period. The temptation will be present to give for one or two years and then to consciously forget, hoping that someone else will pick up the slack. But since pledges of money are legally binding, we hope all Seniors will see this project through.

There is always a need for financial help for students without the resources to pay for college or other expenses in one lump sum. Such a loan system at such a cheap interest rate can play a small but important part. Future classes may wish to adopt this as a senior gift as well, in order that the amount of funds may be increased.

If the senior gift was something as useless as a bench, it might be understandable why some seniors would choose not to donate. However, this year’s gift represents something far more meaningful, and hence every senior should feel some obligation to contribute considering the need.

GRAY WILSON

Women Will Bring Traumatic Changes

Now that coeducation will soon be more than a token reality at Davidson, it is time to take stock of the effects of reality on the male student body for next year. First, 24-hour open dorms are still taboo on the faculty books, so no coeds may reside in the upper floors of Little Dorm after 2 p.m. every evening. They will have to find more legitimate lodging.For the night, say, Duke Dorm. Secondly, the facilities in Little are too adequate for the prospective coeds. Several installments will lie fallow in the restrooms due to the hasty housing arrangements. This is wasteful. This is why the room fees are going up next year. Thirdly, the additional number of coeds coming to the campus next year has forced the Housing Office to raise its quota of off-campus permits above the standard ceiling of four people. Consequently, people like myself are being driven out of the dormitories into the hinterland of Davidson with no chance for a nice comfortable room in the demi-paradise of first floor Belk.

Speaking of dorms, Duke is no longer the prima donna it once was. It seems that third floor Little has suddenly taken on a new priority in the room drawings. Maybe this upswing is due to the air-conditioning or the early curfew hours on the hall, but it is rumored that room service is a major factor in the rise in popularity.

The classroom situation will be slightly altered too. The added perspective of a woman in a Humes discussion will be just as titillating as those good ole days in high school. Remember how it was about four years ago back in biology class with female representation in the same room?

Finally, with coeducation a thing of the past, SGA candidates will no longer have an issue that everyone can agree upon. That first paragraph of bull you find on every platform statement that goes under your door will have to be replaced by some other subject that everyone favors such as Renall drug dispensers in the lobbies, or perfect attendance awards for classes.

What did Davidson do to deserve all this? It got weird. It all began when the light bulb of the future began to flicker A.C.-D.C. and students were having dark visions of those English prep schools where boys got lonely. The situation became desperate when the cheers in Johnston Gym went from “Go Wildcats” to “Give me a M-E-O-N, What-uvyougot? ME-ON, Whatdoyouwant? ME-ON,” etc.

The EPC (Enticing Propositions Committee) finally made an offer that the coed faculty could not resist, and it looks like the hormonal imbalance will soon be restored at Davidson. One other group deserves praise for its share in bringing coeducation on the campus. The Grey House crew has done more than its share in all respects. They have provided much of the necessary lip service for every worthwhile cause, such as the need for extra lighting and security on campus (Russ Merritt and the Booger Man saw it all that rape-infested night behind the Cunningham Fine Arts Building).

In closing, just in case anybody is wondering about all the juicy dating possibilities that will be available, the only difference will be that it will take a short walk instead of a short phone call to Queens or Salem to get shot down. So all you lady killers and sex-starved academic eggplants get ready because starting next year, what’s left of the male student body will return drooling with healthy ideas, untouched, savage, and UNCHAINED, in technicolor.

---

To the Editor:

In my brief acquaintance with American architecture, I have come to the decision that the architectural policy of Davidson College is wrong. In the history of the United States, architects have constantly been thwarted in their ambitions by a lack of public interest. In the early 1900s, architect Louis Sullivan was reduced to designing banks, and in the 1910s Frank Lloyd Wright could find employment only as a designer for suburban housing, while lesser architects were designing larger works in older eclectic styles. It is a shame that such talents weren’t fully utilized, being limited only by their patrons’ interests.

Today, it seems that this college is committing the same errors continually committed in the history of building in the United States. If the college claims to be a progressive cultural element, it must offer the designing of a building in open competition so that innovative architects can have a chance to further their art in America. Although an excellent opportunity for change was missed in the designing of the E. H. Little Library, I would like to urge the college to become progressive in its future building projects and to abandon its encouragement of antiquated forms. I recognize the argument for continuity of forms on campus, but it seems that this should be overridden by the college's role as a cultural stimulus in the community. I argue that a variety of forms, too, can be beautiful and moreover as functional as Frank L. Wright himself advised.

Andy Neisler ‘74
Davidson College