Joseph Hirsch’s lithograph won a Special Purchase Award. “TRIAD” (Staff photo by Lawrimore)

Drawing, Print Showing Open: With Something For Everyone

A REVIEW By FRANK SOOS Staff Writer

It’s not too late to view the winning works from the Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition. Even though you
missed the eats and art party Sunday, the work on the walls will stand the test of a “Lean and
hungry look.” So look on, the show stays up until April 29th.

Too bad for you if you did miss the opening. It featured real Grimm baker cookies and a task force
of College wives headed by Mrs. Robert Avenger serving them. You could have seen Herb Jackson light up a victory
cigar after the style of Red Auerbach with an air of “I told you so” about him. But the show
must go on.

The survivors of the two thousand odd entries are, well, representative. That is, there is something for everybody but no
one person is going to like every piece in the show. The credit for a show of this diverse nature
must go to Frank Getlein, Juror. The job of selecting a 127-piece show from such a massive number of entries
requires not only an eye for fine technique but also an appreciation for different styles of art. There is bound
to be something on the wall you'll like.

Assuming that you're right there on the edge of your seat just waiting to rush off and look at great
art, let me clue you in a little on the artists. There is quite a bit of prestige involved in
making a show as selective as the Davidson National. Many powerful established artists are in the show. Among them are
Carol Summers, Robert Nelson, and Gabor Peterdi. But perhaps more important are the number of new names that appeared. For
these artists, making the show means a chance at national prominence. James Bruss and Joseph Hirsch, both relatively unknown, won
two of Davidson’s Special Purchase awards.

More renowned artists won the other two special awards, Richard Ziemann and Jack Levine. Perhaps Levine merits special mention. He
is probably the biggie in American printmaking. You might like to think of him like you would after getting Mickey
Mantle in your baseball cards. His etching “Feast of Pure Reason” is somewhat representative of his politically oriented art. The
trio pictured are the corrupt policeman, politician, and banker. Jack lifted his title line from Jimmy Joyce, see if you
English majors can find it while wading through Ulysses.

Elsewhere, of special mention: Try David Driesbach’s color intaglio, “All Children Must Be Accompanied by Adults.” It features a menagerie
of bizarre characters in a multiple-plate print. You might join Getlein’s political guffaw when looking at “Forward Together.” Don't forget
to look at Terry Hirst’s “Anemone.” Its acceptance launched Hirst into art department folk history. Visit Stowe Galleries and see
what hath Getlein wrought.

Eleven Students To Study At Oxford This Summer

By JOHN CASSELS Staff Writer

Eleven Davidson College students will participate in an international studies program this summer at St. Anne’s College, Oxford, England. In
its second year, the program at Oxford University is sponsored jointly by Davidson and Mary Baldwin College. The program centers
around the International Graduate Summer School Lectures at Exeter College and special tutorials set up to expand on the lecture
topic. This year’s topic is “The Literature, History and Society of Britain from 1870 to Present.”

Members of the program are housed in a 22-room house at the college. Director of Overseas Studies Paul C. Fisher
characterized the program as perhaps “our one truly coed program, even with a coed dorm.” Only seven Davidson students entered
the program last year, but this year eleven men will take the trip. They are Thomas Sinks, graduating senior; Alan
Baragona, Joel Bradley, Marcus Brown, Richard Cooper, Jack Fletcher, and Eugene Gray Smith, rising seniors, and William Allen, Frank Erwin,
Jerry Godbehere, and Robert Norman, rising juniors.

A student pursuing any major is eligible for the program. A resident advisor is alternately provided by Davidson and Mary
Baldwin. This year's advisor is Davidson History Professor C. Earl Edmondson.

The Davidsonian March 24, 1972 Page Three

Cheating Prompts

By ALAN FORD Staff Writer

Concern over possible cheating during self-scheduled exams has prompted the formation of six new administrative procedures by the Faculty Executive
Committee (FEC) for assuring that the students are made fully aware of the honor system during the exams. Will Terry,
dean of students, stated that “the concern is that we educate students so that we may avoid the inadvertent giving
of information about an exam from a student who has taken an exam to a student who has not had
the exam.” He went on to explain that by “inadvertent advice” he meant such things as “Is it easy?” and
“Do IHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Need to study this?” Answers to these and similar questions give an unfair advantage to the questioner. The new procedures
are meant to stress the honor code to the students right before an exam. These new rules are to make
sure that the student hears the administration’s views on cheating, he said. Briefly, the new rules are as follows:

1) Ten days before exams begin, the Registrar will send a request to all faculty members asking that they read
to their classes the regulations governing self-scheduled exams.
2) The DAVIDSONIAN will be requested to print a copy of the regulations in the last issue prior to any
scheduled exam period.
3) The Dean of Students will be responsible for scheduling a presentation and discussion on the honor system and self-scheduled
exams during freshman orientation.
4) Freshman hall counselors will arrange discussion sessions concerning self-scheduled exams and the honor code’s relation to the exams immediately
prior to the exam period.
5) The Chairman of the Hearing Committee will mail a letter to each student in which he will stress his
expectations and remind the students of the exam procedure.
6) Care will be taken to make sure that the students have no reason to accidentally violate the regulations and
to specify Chambers as the exam location. Rooms other than Perkins Auditorium will be used for open book examinations.

“Our desire is for students not to ride piggy-back upon the examinations of other students,” Terry said.

Dick Clay, Chairman of the Hearing Committee, commenting on the new procedures, stated, “To my knowledge, sections one and two
of these new administration procedures have not been met by the Registrar’s Office and the faculty.

“Sections three through six have been met by the Office of the Dean of Students, myself, and Duff Bruce, the
former Chairman of the Hearing Committee. However, the fact that these procedures have been met does not mean that they
have been met adequately.

“I am pleased to see these six edicts finally written down on paper, although I have no idea who wrote
them or where they came from,” Clay stated. “The Hearing Committee has not been consulted, which I regret. This once
again affirms the ever-increasing and lamentable distance between the college administrators on the one hand and approximately 1000 students on
the other,” he said.

Ralph Peeples, Student Body President, said that he thought the new procedures are necessary, but that these rules are full
of implications “that someone does not trust the students.

“I think we need to define on paper precisely what a violation of the honor code is in relation to
self-scheduled exams because there is confusion and ignorance as to what a violation is,” he added.

“I think that the problem here is not just a student problem and you don’t get anywhere by saying, categorically,
that students alone are at fault,” Peeples said. “This points to a bigger problem and that is that sizable segments
of the administration and faculty don’t seem to be willing to trust the students to uphold the honor system.”

Room Drawing Announced
By JOHN CASSELS
Staff Writer

The lottery for room reservations for the academic year 1972-73 will be held during the first week of April according
to Scotty Nicholls, Director of Student Housing.

The first step for all students is to pay their $100 deposit against school costs in the comptroller’s office. The
$100 deposit is required by the college. Upperclassmen may retain their present rooms by signing up in the Housing Office.
Freshmen may not retain their rooms since the college plans to use Sentelle, Cannon, and Watts for freshman housing again
next year.

Single rooms and three-man suites will be assigned on April 3. Seniors will draw their numbers at 8:30 a.m. or
12:30 p.m. and be given the opportunity to choose their rooms at 1:30 p.m. Juniors will then draw for the
remaining singles and suites from 2-4 p.m. Assignment of junior rooms will begin at 4:30 p.m.

Seniors who wish to room with sophomores will be required to draw in the sophomore draw. Due to several cases
of seniors signing to room with sophomores, and then switching rooms so that sophomores room together in senior housing, Mrs.
Nicholls felt that seniors truly wishing to room with sophomores would have to “lay their friendship on the line.” Seniors
wishing to room with juniors or juniors wishing to room with sophomores, however, will be allowed to draw with their
respective classmates.

All rooms other than retained rooms, singles, or three-man suites will be assigned as follows: April 4, juniors draw from
8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. and receive room assignments at 7:30 p.m.; April 5, sophomores draw from 8:30 a.m. to
5:30 p.m. and receive assignments at 7:30 p.m.; April 6, freshmen draw from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. and receive
rooms at 7:30 p.m.
