Page Ten

LUBE bit + Friday, January 21
8:15 p.m. Major Drama Production:
10:45 p.m. Hungry'd: We the People

Saturday, January 22
2 p.m. Dance: School of the Arts

January 21, 1972
‘n’ Coming
The Bavidsaniast
IRD Hodson Hall
Morrison Room
Love Auditorium
“Courtship of Miles Standish”
8:15 p.m. Raskethail: West Virginia
We the People
11 p.m. Hungry’d:

Monday, January 24
7 p.m. Registration For Juniors and Seniors

Tuesday, January 25
7 p.m. Registration For Freshmen and Sophomores
8:30 p.m. Fine Film: Romeo and Juliet Ballet
10:00 p.m. Movie: Planet of the Apes

Wednesday, January 26
6 p.m. Basketball: Princeton

Thursday, January 27
3 p.m. Transcendental Meditation
8 p.m. Danforth Lecturer: Charlotte Morrison Room
Chambers Basement
Hodson Hall
Morrison Room
Charlotte Morrison Room
Green Room
Morrison Room
Alfred Fontenilles
10 p.m. Movie: Beneath the Planet of the Apes

Friday, January 28
10 a.m. Danforth Lecturer: Morrison Room
Morrison Room
Alfred Fontenilles
7:30 p.m. Ape Festival: Beneath the Planet of the Apes

Saturday, January 29
All day Transcendental Meditation
7:30 p.m. Ape Festival: If You Love Your Pet
Blue & Green Rooms, Y Office
Morrison Room

Find it Another Home
By DAVID ARANT
Staff Writer

Noting a sudden increase in the number of pets in the dormitories, Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls issued a
letter of warning Jan. 11 to students that no pets are allowed in the residence halls.

“Recently we have had an increase of animals, particularly untrained animals, in the dormitories,” Mrs. Nicholls said. In an effort
to enforce the standard rule of no pets, she issued the following statement: “Any dog or cat found anywhere in
a residence hall will be impounded by the college and removed to the Mooresville Veterinary Clinic where a student may
claim his pet after paying expenses.”

However, Mrs. Nicholls said, “Generally speaking, students are very responsive to requests to get rid of their pets.”

Another animal problem is the number of stray dogs and cats which roam the campus. These animals are attracted to
the students because they are nice to the animals. As a result, the dog or cat will often follow students
into the dorm, and the outcome is sometimes quite messy.

There are several reasons for the rule of no pets. The principal one is that the allowance of pets in
a facility such as a dormitory is against the rules of the board of health.

PHOTOGRAPHER?
Get access to a well-equipped darkroom and income to boot. Be a DAVIDSONIAN photographer. Contact Bill Barnes, R312 or the
Union.

Other reasons are that pets damage property, cause custodians extra work, and are nuisances to other students not quite so
fond of animals. On the other hand, some students argue that they have a right to keep pets. Coming from
homes where they have had pets, these students feel that they should be allowed to keep their animals on campus,
especially if it does not bother anyone else. But, Mrs. Nicholls contends, “If you love your pet you will see
that it has a good home elsewhere.”the great and imperative need of our time. An unshared life is not living.
Stephen S. Wise

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what "low net cost" really means.
Hal Mapes 892-1467
Jim Roy 892-1424

ROBERT T. STONE
District Agent

NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE
MILWAUKEE

White Discusses Reactions To Davidson With Freshmen
By TOM AINSWORTH
Staff Writer

Lt. Edmunds White, Director of Admissions, recently met informally with members of first floor Sentelle in order to find out
firsthand what their reaction to Davidson was and how it had changed during the past months.

"I had heard it said that a great many members of the Freshman class were questioning whether or not Davidson
had been their right choice," he said. White claimed that the story of the numbers of students transferring was "grossly
exaggerated." It seems that of the nine who left, only three did so for reasons of dissatisfaction with the college.

However, the main reason for the complaints brought out at the meeting was over coeducation and the Davidson social system.
As to what the college can answer in regard to this, White thinks it's "crucial to see what the trustees
decide in the Spring. There may be many more girls on campus. If not, then it's up to each student
to evaluate what Davidson offers as a man's college as opposed to a realistic evaluation of what a coeducational institution
would have to offer."

"If another college offers something better, then he should transfer, and we will help him. But he should realize that
the school he chooses is not going to have exactly what he wants."

Besides the social system and eating clubs, the other problems presented included registration for classes, grades and credits, and generally
individual problems which White feels could have been and frequently were answered by the other members of the group.

So far, first floor Sentelle has been the only hall visited, and as for others in the future, White has
said that he "hasn't really decided yet." Mike Creasman, first Sentelle hall counselor, thinks that the discussion was good in
the sense of dispelling rumors of transfers and decreasing applications.

In regard to the freshmen involved in the discussion, reactions were mixed, but for the most part favorable. To both
Skip Burton and Chip Jones, the session seemed to be moving in the right direction to help solve some of
the problems, but that White "mainly talked about things not in his department."

Phone 376-2576

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

"After Church" Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
Salads
Desserts
Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room

The Billy Graham Crusade presents
A Christian Folk Concert featuring British Folk Singer, Song Writer Judy MacKenzie and Pianist, Composer, Tedd Smith
OVENS AUDITORIUM
Monday, January 31, 1972
Billy Graham Charlotte Area Crusade Office
Tickets available 372-5434
