Che Baudsnanian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
MARCH 24, 1972

Coeducation Delay

A report on the feasibility of Davidson’s becoming coeducational is still not released, and the probability of Davidson’s becoming coeducational grows dimmer as each day passes by. The blame for this delay in Davidson’s coeducation plans lies squarely on the shoulders of the Subcommittee on Coeducation of the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee. A report on the educational feasibility of coeducation coming to this campus was completed over a month ago, but no one knows if Davidson can afford to become coeducational.

At the Monday afternoon meeting of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC), College Comptroller Robert W. Davidson was scheduled to explain the financial aspects of the transition to coeducation. Monday was to be a great day in the history of Davidson, and even College President Samuel R. Spencer was present. In a technical sense, Davidson did make a report, but his report was worthless and an insult to the fine report of the EPC Subcommittee on Coeducation. Davidson explained that he had no concrete recommendation to make, and he did not know when any would be made. Those present sat in stunned silence as Davidson explained that he had only reviewed the recommendations of the EPC Subcommittee on Coeducation. Not only had Davidson done little research, he was going to rely on a three-year-old report on the costs of going coeducational.

The financial study has been handled poorly from the beginning. Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell did not impress on his subordinates the importance of the study of the costs of going coeducational. Consequently, the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee, which he chairs, refused to take up the matter until the EPC study had been completed. It was stated that they needed a definite plan to do a cost analysis of, and assurances were given that it would take no time at all to do a cost analysis once the EPC report was released.

The history of the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Subcommittee on Coeducation has been filled with procrastination, inefficiency, and unresponsiveness to the college community. We are aware that the preparation of the budget is time-consuming, but this is no excuse for the unconscionable disregard of the true priorities of Davidson.

Budget Secrecy

At Tuesday morning's Any Questions session, Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell flatly stated his refusal to release the line-by-line proposed budget for next year. Yet he affirmed that the finance offices will be “completely open” about any query on any particular subject. This appears to be a contradiction. Cornell justified his position by saying that students and faculty had “ample time” to look over the line-by-line budget at Monday’s Budget, Buildings, and Grounds meeting, and that they had the opportunity to raise any questions concerning financial priorities. But it seems to us that three hours is not nearly enough time for anyone to analyze a 40-page budget. What has happened is that the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee is merely a rubber stamp for the budget. Administrators contend that by meeting one time with the faculty committee, they have fulfilled the requirements of consultation.

Secondly, Cornell argued that details of the budget, if released, would cause the constituencies of the college “to be at each other’s throat” over certain items such as expense accounts. “We would have to have a footnote a page long for each item if we released the budget,” Cornell said. “But there are valid justifications for all expenses,” he said. These arguments are not very persuasive. At a time when financial priorities are of critical importance, the college should make every effort to justify its expenses. Although a summary budget is available, it does not give a detailed picture of where the money goes; a breakdown is imperative for any authoritative analysis.

Such weak arguments make the question of the line-by-line budget even more relevant. While we do not question the integrity of the business staff, we do believe they should be more open in their procedures. These men are primarily paidTo juggle figures, not to understand the needs of the college. Complete openness in budget proceedings will eradicate the suspicions of mismanagement that faculty or students might harbor.

‘Miscellany’ Awarded Alpo
By BOBBY ALLEN
Staff Writer

As a rule, I'm not a real big fan of college literary magazines. I get tired of reading poem after poem about sex, insanity, and death—usually suicide. (War death used to be a biggy, but its stock dropped with the draft calls.) Someday I’ll write the great literary magazine poem about an oversexed schizophrenic with Parkinson's disease and become instantly famous.

So when I was asked to review the winter issue of ‘The Miscellany,’ I gleefully accepted—expecting the opportunity to vent the frustrations of a would-be writer of other than journalismese and bored reader of litmagazineese. What did it matter if I hadn't read ‘The Miscellany’? Poison pen in hand, I scanned it—reading the shorter poems, pausing to admire Herb Jackson’s marvelous ‘Revelation’ etchings, noting the style and subject matter of the fiction. Hmmm. Not much meat here for my caustic criticism—only two or three madness poems and they’re not that bad. Better read it again.

Second time through I read Peter Graham’s poems and decided to dogear the few pieces I liked. That meant I had to fold down the next page: Herman Myrick's short-short story, ‘The Dry Spell;’ and Robert Grey's three poems (First Place ‘The Miscellany’ Poetry Contest); and Ann Deagon’s second place poems—especially ‘Augury,’ my personal favorite; and ‘Lavabo,’ the first place fiction winner by Alan Baragona; and Frank Soos’ story; and Sam Gwynn’s poem, and certainly E. F. Patterson’s sensitive observations on India and Nepal and Dr. Clark’s accompanying sketches.

What had I done? My ‘Miscellany’ had more dogears than the Charlotte Pound. The third reading brought down more corners: I had overlooked ‘Sixteen,’ by Juanita Dawson; ‘Straight Down The Middle’ by Charles Stetler, and William McLaughlin’s two poems. VICIOUS CRITIC DOMESTICATED BY DOGEARS. I really enjoyed reading ‘The Miscellany.’ The overall quality of the material is very high—better than any other issue of ‘The Miscellany’ I have read, and definitely higher than your average college literary magazine. It merits rereading two or three times. Some pieces need a dogear so you won't forget to go back and read them more closely. Some of the credit for the high quality goes to the presence of pieces by foreigners (New York/Chicago non-Davidson types) but the Davidson writers made a good showing. So from this formerly caustic critic to Mark Meza and his staff goes a congratulatory Bow-Wow and a can of Alpo.

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

‘The Miser’ by French playwright Moliere is being presented in English by the Queens College Drama department tonight and tomorrow at 8:15 p.m. in Dana Auditorium. Student tickets are $.50.

‘Hedda Gabler,’ a play by Henrik Ibsen, is being presented in the Rowe Creative Arts Building at UNCC through Saturday. Student tickets to this student production are $1.

An Acting Studio II Performance featuring parts of Anouilh's ‘Antigone,’ Ibsen’s ‘Peer Gynt’ and Shakespeare’s ‘Measure For Measure’ will be presented by the UNC-C Drama department in the Rowe Creative Arts Building on March 28 at 2:30 p.m. There is no admission charge.

Sonny and Cher will appear in concert March 27 at 8:00 p.m. in the Charlotte Coliseum. Tickets are $4, $5, and $6.

The Harlem Globetrotters will play ball in the Charlotte Coliseum March 26 at 3 p.m. Tickets to view their antics cost $3.50 and $4.

Deep Purple and Bloody Mary headline a concert at the Park Center March 26 at 8 p.m. Tickets are $5.

Paintings and prints by Robert Williams will be on display in the Garden Gallery of the Mint Museum until April 5. The former Davidson instructor is now a professor at Queens.