Page Five March 24, 1972 The Davidsonian The Truth Shall Make You Free?

Recruiters Make Hard-Sell, Produces Disillusionment

As of the first week in March, 499 guys (and girls) wanted to come to Davidson next year. As of
the first week in the winter term this year, about 305 freshmen wanted to leave Davidson, or said they did.
Next week, on April Fool’s Day, the first barrage of acceptances will be mailed, and I wonder if that date
also has some special significance worth pondering.

I attribute the change in attitude of prospective students from April 1 until the end of their first term here
to the recruiting job done at school. You would never guess that living in the basement of Richardson dorm one
would have such ample opportunity to sample the mass recruiting done as truckload after truckload comes in for a weekend.

I did not really know what recruiting was during football season when a group in coats and ties was herded
into the huge cement vault under the dorm on a typical Friday afternoon. I did not get the full effect
when the guys unpacked their duffle bags, put on their letter jackets tattooed with medals, and lounged around taping their
ankles until a few first-stringers came in with mimeographed schedules for the next two days, such as a reception at
Coach Fagg’s and a cocktail party in the locker room. But the schedule also called for breakfast at 7:45 a.m.
on the Day of Good Rack, Saturday. I finally knew what recruiting was when, at the crack of dawn, I
heard 30 water buffalo storming the shower room popping each other with towels and yelling obscenities through the steam.

This is one method of securing fine talent at Davidson, and a good one, but the individual hard sell job
nabs a bit more prime material than these weekend conventions of Piggy Logan’s Circus of Wire Dolls in Richardson basement.
But is this informal recruiting working well these days? According to the administrative computer, Davidson joined a nationwide small college
slump in applications last year and is still in it. This slump, however, has been on for ten years at
other campuses, a good indication that our situation is unique by about eight years.

For every interview, the prospective student watches a clinical soft-sell film produced two years ago by the Visual Education Corporation
which frames Davidson as a small traditionalist Southern liberal arts school with sectarian connections. Yet from the moment he reaches
campus the new student faces an administration working hard to shuck this image with all kinds of nifty changes discovered
up at Amherst College or elsewhere. The only advantage which I can see offered by Amherst is its distance from
Davidson.

If the Admissions Office would try living up more to the image it presents then maybe Davidson freshmen might not
be in open revolt from the first day they arrive when they discover that things are different. This sort of
administrative hoodwinking (which compares Patterson Court’s new social system to the Garden of Eden) goes a step beyond “putting the
best foot forward.”

Nevertheless, in the name of geographic cross-sectioning, H. Edmunds White continues to scour places like Truth Or Consequences, Texas in
search of cosmopolitan blood to make Davidson a part of the Third World while feeding the same old catch phrases
to those areas which have always sent their favorite sons faithfully to this college. If the school truly wants to
bring variety to this campus, I suggest that next Saturday night at 3 a.m. a recruiting official be sent to
the Presto Grill in Charlotte. He won't be disappointed, for what “seems” to be there actually “is” there.

Otherwise, I suggest that we keep looking for people with fine minds and a little character to fit our image
instead of brainwashing every prospect with promises that the administration has not kept in the last four years.

LETTERS

Outside Perspective By LEX VEAZEY

Applications Down At Small, Private Colleges

According to a national survey by the College Entrance Examination Board, applications for admission to small, private colleges appear to
be down about five percent this spring over last.year. In the same survey, applications to state colleges are up about
seven percent. The board drew these conclusions from a sampling of applications at 227 four-year universities and colleges late last
month and early this month.

Princeton Decides To Have Election Break

The faculty of Princeton University voted to adopt a 10-day recess of classes just before the November election so that
students might work for a candidate. This decision was a reversal of the faculty’s January decision not to have the
November break. The second vote came after the student government requested that the faculty reconsider its earlier decision to drop
the recess.

Universities Reduce Time To Earn Law Degree

Columbia University plans to reduce by one year the time it takes to obtain a law degree. Columbia will accept
20 students from 10 liberal arts colleges after their junior year. In another decision, the Harvard University law school voted
to offer 80 successful applicants, selected at random, the chance to take a year or two off before beginning their
studies.

Belmont Abbey College Goes Coed

Belmont Abbey College, an all-male liberal arts college for the past 96 years, has decided to admit women next fall.
At a news conference, John Bradley, the college's president, said that women initially will be admitted as day students only.
Bradley further stated that eventually women will be accepted as residential students when the college has women’s housing ready. Belmont
Abbey College, which had been discussing the possibility of a merger with nearby Sacred Heart College, said that no merger
is immediately planned. Sacred Heart has decided to remain all-women, at least for the present.

“Quickie” State Residents Pose Threat

State legislatures across the country are deeply concerned with the ability of college students to move into a state and
establish “quickie” residence so that they can qualify for low in-state tuition. Thousands of students are presently paying millions of
dollars in out-of-state tuition; much of that revenue would be threatened if the students changed their residence and thus qualified
for in-state tuition. Since the extension of voting rights to 18-year-olds, at least 11 states, including North Carolina, have followed
up by reducing the “age of majority” from 21 to 18. These new laws grant thousands of young people, including
most college students, full rights of adulthood. The laws make it easier for students to set up immediate residence wherever
they are in college.

War For Peace Continues; Guyer Decries ROTC Goals

To the Editor:

How many persons are actually involved in ROTC because they wish to be involved? I am sure that if a
poll were taken, many of those enrolled in the program would reply that they were enrolled simply to avoid the
draft. These persons are not really voluntarily involved in ROTC. In many cases, ROTC is the only alternative they have
to avoid fighting in a war in which they do not believe: a war which has dehumanized a nation of
people. Another dehumanizing element possibly here is the ROTC leadership program. Not that it trains young men in the mechanics
of murder, but that it tends to overlook the human element in war. In my opinion, this training can make
leadership a mechanized process by which human lives are considered a means to an end. How many generals consider how
the loved ones of a young man feel when he orders him into battle to defend the Constitution of the
United States? But take a look at that Constitution. Does it not insure freedom of religion? And aren’t “life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness” our “inalienable rights” as guaranteed by the Declaration of Independence? Then why are there men
in prison because their religion and pursuit of happiness are violated by the murder of innocent men, women, and children
and the defoliation of half of a country? A country whose people are torn between ideologies which they do not
understand? And why must we kill? “To preserve and... protect... sacred ideals and freedom?” Look at some of the sacred
ideals: “Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God.” “Blessed are the meek, for they shall
inherit the earth.” “But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you.” With ideals
as these, why protect “the national honor and integrity?”

William Mark Guyer, ’75
Davidson College
