Page Ten
October 27, 1972

Booters View Title After St. Andrews, Citadel Victories

(Staff photo by Goodman)
CRUISING BY THE CITADEL
Tom Tornee takes the ball around a lineman from The Citadel.

By JIM SITTERSON
Staff Writer

A 2-1 victory over The Citadel last Saturday gives the soccer team a good chance of winning their division in the Southern Conference. Coach Harry Fogleman was very pleased with the team’s performance. “We played an exceptionally good game," he said. Fogleman added that Davidson was in control throughout the entire game.

Davidson's dominance of the game was not reflected in the score. The Cats had 25 shots on goal while holding The Citadel to 7. Fogleman praised both the offense and the defense. His overall appraisal was that, “We had to play our very best, and we played as well as we ever have.” Davidson now stands 2-1 in the division.

Pfeil Adjusts To School, Soccer

By FORD NEWMAN
Staff Writer

International Exchange student Reinhard Pfeil has had to make many transitions while at Davidson, not only in athletics but academically and socially as well. Speaking on the style of the soccer played here as compared to the German style, Pfeil said, “The guys over here are in really good shape, but they don't have the skills of the players in Germany."

Pfeil added that in Germany they would usually have only one or two two-hour practices a week devoted mainly to skill and individual technique as compared to the two-hour practices every day at Davidson. Another difference noted by Pfeil was the amount of contact. “It is a lot rougher here than in Germany, but this depends on the experience of the players,” said Pfeil, who suffered a “charley horse” in the High Point game. The injury occurred when the High Point goalie kicked Pfeil in the thigh. “I have never been injured this badly before,” said Pfeil.

Commenting on the Davidson team as a whole, Pfeil said that three or four players play well together but the team needs to play more together and have everyone in the game. But Pfeil felt this was due to inexperience, noting that in Germany the soccer season lasts all year except for a few months in the summer when it's too hot to play. He said that soccer games played in the snow were not uncommon.

Pfeil believes that the popularity of soccer may be on the upswing. “Soccer is a very young sport here,” said Pfeil. “It could have a future.” When asked to evaluate his own past performances, Pfeil said that they could have been better. But he added, “I hope my performance will be better, maybe in the playoffs.”

Pfeil's problems academically are not unlike those of most Davidson students. He indicated that it was hard to adjust.

Cats Prepare To Meet Duke

By JOHN McELVEEN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Sailing Team sets course for Durham this weekend to participate in the Duke Regatta. Daryl Douglas, commodore of the team, will skipper in A division with Vicki Brooks crewing. Frank Sommerville will skipper in the B division with Tracy Lucille Charles serving as crew. The team will be sailing with “Windmills,” a dagger board boat. “That board makes tacking a little more interesting,” Sommerville pointed out.

“Though we won't anticipate a victory, we do hope to make a good showing,” commented Douglas. “We still lack experience.”for him to complete his studying with all the reading it entails. Pfeil, whose native school of Marburg has an enrollment of around 12,000 men and women, has had to adjust to the small college atmosphere of Davidson. “The weekends are very boring without dates and I miss the dancing clubs,” said Pfeil. “But the cultural programs here are very good.” When asked to evaluate Davidson overall, Pfeil laughed and said, “You can spend your time very usefully here at Davidson.” But on a more serious note, he added that the people here have been more than friendly and that he has gotten all the help he has needed from both professors and students.

The division championship could go to any one of five teams. Davidson's final standing will be determined in the remaining games played between the other conference members. A round-robin playoff in the event of a tie is a definite possibility. On Tuesday, the team traveled to St. Andrews and returned with a 4-1 victory. Before the game, Fogleman had been apprehensive, fearing that injuries would hurt the team. All but two starters played, however, in what goalie Charlie Slagle felt was the team’s finest game to date. “We're starting to play as a team and finally putting everything together," he said. Davidson took a 2-0 lead in the first half with the first goal coming on a penalty kick by Tatum. Rheinhard Pfeil scored the second goal. Tatum and Pfeil also scored the second and third goals in the second half. The St. Andrews goal came on a corner kick which was headed into the goal. The team played together well the entire game, according to Fogleman. The only lapse came early in the first half when St. Andrews tested Slagle with a hard shot. The team's homecoming opponent will be Belmont Abbey. The game will be played on Saturday.

Panasonic THE ORBITEL TR-005 Space Capsule Portable TV on Swivel Stand. 5” Diagonal Screen (16 Square Inches). 70° Deflection Reinforced Aluminized Picture Tube. Electro-Tuner. 3 IF Stages. Speed-O-Vision. Lighted Channel Indicators. Tinted Screen. Dual UHF/VHF Dipole Antenna. 2” Speaker. Integrated Circuitry. $128.88

The Red Hanger
Elephant Barn
115 N. Main St.
892-7511

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
DQ JEWELERS
Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Mooresville, N.C.

MINI REFRIG UNLIMITED
4405 East-West Highway, Suite 210, Bethesda, Md. 20014
Enclosed is check or money order for $_____. Allow 10 days for delivery.
Rental Plan — $55 & $20 refundable deposit (Total $75 a school year)
Sales Plan — $79.95 No shipping charges on either plan.
Name: _______________
Address: _______________
City: _______________

OUR MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE: If this machine is not exactly as we stated, put it back into the shipping carton and send it back C.O.D. You must be 100% satisfied or your money back. This is a quality machine.