Speement= Bavidsonian =December 1, 1972 Page ne

FOGLEMAN ...to be replaced.
By JIM SITTERSON
Assistant Sports Editor

Vice President of Academic Affairs John Bevan stated Monday that a replacement for retiring soccer coach Harry Fogleman will not be named until January. “We will select a coach in January,” Bevan said, adding that, “We will not go outside the college community to get a replacement."

Spokesman for the soccer team Tom Tornee expressed “total dissatisfaction with Bevan’s attitude.” Tornee felt that the school should go outside of the college to hire a new coach. He also felt that a replacement should have been named by now. “The season has been over a month and we still don’t have a coach. It will be too long if they wait until January.”

In an effort to gain support for the soccer team, Tornee has begun circulating a petition among students and faculty. The purpose of the petition, according to Tornee, is “to show support for soccer as a popular sport and to stress the need for a qualified coach.” The petition also mentions a request for a bigger soccer budget.

Recruiting over the past several years has been done almost exclusively by the team members themselves. “After the season several guys will write letters to interested soccer players,” Tornee explained. “That's how I and several other guys got interested in playing soccer at Davidson,” he added.

Tornee felt that an increased budget would not have to include money for scholarships. “What we need is money for equipment and away trips. We only have one good set of uniforms. When we use the other set, the pants are flapping around our knees. Even the soccer balls we use are not that good. Coach Fogleman got them at a discount to save money.”

Tornee also pointed out that while the team has several good games scheduled for next year, they will have to find the money to finance the away trips. Tornee once again stressed that money was not the prime objective of the petition. “We want to show that soccer has a lot of support here and that they need to go out and get a qualified coach.”

Tornee felt that a full-time coach was not necessary or needed. His major complaint was that by waiting until January to get a replacement, the team’s chances of getting a qualified coach were being diminished. “I realize that there are more important things in running the school than getting a soccer coach,” he said, “but the team needs some sort of directional guidance right now. The future of the team is being crippled by Bevan’s inaction,” Tornee stated.

‘Complete Ballplayer’ Pecorak Adjusts To Court Position As Cagers’ Big Man, Captain
By MARK CONNORS
Staff Writer

John “Pig” Pecorak, captain of the 1972-73 Wildcat Basketball team, is a man of many honors and has been called “the complete ballplayer” by Head Coach Terry Holland. Pecorak, a Fairfax, Virginia native, came to Davidson while Wildcat Basketball was in a transitory coaching phase, under the auspices of Larry Brown and Bo Brickels.

“I wanted to go to a small school, and Davidson was the only school that had what I was really looking for,” Pecorak said. After choosing Davidson over such schools as Rutgers, Tennessee, and Cornell, Pecorak suffered the typical freshman maladies. “I encountered the normal freshman problems of adjustment. I was the first guy from my high school to come here, and at first I was pretty lonely,” Pecorak said.

He also had to adjust to the new situation on the basketball court. “It was a big change from a gung-ho attitude present in high school to a nonchalance about the game. It became more of a job-like thing and as a result of this, some of the enjoyment has gone out of the game,” he said.

The change, however, did not hurt Pecorak's freshman career. He finished his first year as the Cats’ third highest scorer and second highest rebounder. The only problem came with Pig's aggressive attitude. “I fouled out a lot my freshman year,” Pecorak admitted."…year and I had a little problem with my temper at times,” he said. This aggressive play has been part of Pecorak’s game all through his career. “I've had to be aggressive to make up for my lack of natural ability,” he said. Coach Holland added that, “Although John is aggressive, he has never fouled out of a varsity game. He is a very unselfish ballplayer. If the play needs to be broken, John will be in there along with the rest of the team to stop it. We try to stress this attitude.”

Named “Pig” his freshman year by teammate Joe Sutter, Pecorak’s improvements have been termed “phenomenal” by Coach Holland. “John has made himself into the complete ballplayer. His weaknesses at first were in the fields of shooting and ballhandling, and now he can be classified as above average in both respects,” he said. Comparing Pig with past Davidson All-Americans, Coach Terry Holland pointed out, “Although John doesn’t have the natural ability and super quickness of a Snyder or Maloy, his hard work has put him very close to that caliber of ballplayer.”

Not all of Pecorak’s achievements have been made on the basketball court. Pecorak sports a 3.5 overall GPA and has been named to the Academic All-American team since his sophomore year. He also has been named to the All-Ukrainian team and All-American PKA team two years in succession. Pecorak will graduate with a degree in history; however, he hopes to study one more year in gaining entrance into medical school. Although the Cougars have expressed an interest in Pecorak, he said pro ball is not included in his present plans.

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Asst. Sports Editor

The Rules Committee of the National Collegiate Athletic Association continually strives to improve the sports under its domain. This action is taken mainly in the hopes of making the game more interesting and exciting for the spectators, who provide a significant amount of the revenue for these sports. At its last meeting in the previous academic year, the committee changed one rule and added another with this idea in mind.

The changed rule amounts to nothing new. Very simply, the rule now reads that any hand contact which hampers a player's natural movement will be called a foul. Coach Terry Holland pointed out that this is no different from the previous years. It is simply a rewording of the definition of a foul. “The effect of this rule is that it is still a point of emphasis,” Holland said. “It will be up to the officials, as it always has been, to determine what a foul is.” According to Holland, there could be “a lot of fouls called.” The rule is another warning to the “defensive players to keep their hands off of the offensive players.”

The new rule, placed in the books for the first time this year, is that for the first six fouls on a team during a particular half, the offended team will take the ball out of bounds as opposed to shooting one free throw. This rule is only in effect on single shot violations. On the seventh team foul, the victimized player will shoot under the bonus rule of one-and-one as he has always done in the past. Many coaches, including Dean Smith of the North Carolina Tar Heels, have expressed belief that this rule will speed up the tempo of the game. However, Holland has hesitations of this being the case. “I do not feel that this new point will have any effect on the speed of the game,” he stated. “It just means that a team will always have the chance to score two points.”

In the past, it was possible for a team which was behind or in a close game to commit as many as six fouls in order to allow their opponents to score as few as six points, while they could score as many as twelve in the same time period. Now, this will not be able to happen. The rule was instigated to terminate the strategy of swapping a foul and one point for a field goal and two points. “I think that this is a good rule,” Holland expressed. “It is much fairer than the Olympic rule.” The Olympic regulation is that any foul after the three-minute mark in the game will be a two-shot foul.

The only recent rule change to cause more controversy was the abolition of the dunk. Holland pointed out that the rule was very fair, but “I still like to dunk the ball.” The new rule should definitely have an effect on the spectator interest, even if it only causes dismay and curiosity when a team takes the ball out of bounds after a definite infraction of the foul rule.