The Davidsonian  
October 13, 1972  
Page Three  

Laundry Provides Scientific Service  
By RICHARD ROMEYN  
Staff Writer  

The Monday morning trek to the laundry has been a tradition for over two generations of Davidson students. Bins of laundry bags disappear into a world of thumping machines, spinning drums, and clouds of steam. College Laundry Manager C. W. Stacks claims the laundry process is as efficient and scientific as he can make it. Four basic services are provided, and are described by Stacks as “wash-dry-fold, shirts on hangers, linens, and dry cleaning at an additional cost.”

The laundry which the student brings in undergoes a sorting and tagging process as the first step in the laundering operation. One bag at a time is emptied upon a scale and weighed. The cost of processing a one-pound load is the same as processing a five-pound bag. The students’ laundry number is then stamped on those clothes not already labeled. Wash-dry-fold clothes are sorted into one of four categories: dark colors, light colors, wool garments, and those of synthetic material. Clothes of each category go into different colored nylon mesh bags. The bags are tagged with a number and hung as a group from a correspondingly labeled bar. When the laundry of 30 students has been hung, they proceed together to the washing machines. Here, bags of the same color are washed together. Light-colored articles are washed at 160 degrees, whereas those of darker color are washed at only 110 degrees. The higher temperature for light-colored clothes was explained by Stacks as necessary “to remove the grime that won't show up on the darker colors.” He also claims that his machines will shrink nothing that would not ordinarily shrink.

The American Institute of Laundries sets specifications for the detergents used in the various machines, and the laundry buys the recommended product from Proctor and Gamble. From the washers, the clothes move across the aisle to the dryers where 148 revolutions per minute (a little more than two per second), and 300-degree heat remove 98 percent of the water. Following this drying process, the wash-dry-fold bulk moves along as a group of 30 to the final drying and folding area. Each person's laundry is put into a separate small dryer. In 15 minutes the load becomes completely dry and is then folded, wrapped, and thrown onto a flatbed cart for a ride to the pick-up shelves.

Shirts with collars and linens are washed separately from the wash-dry-fold clothes, though dress shirts are dried by the same process, then later pressed into shape with steam irons. The sheets are dried on a seven-roll flat press dryer under several tons of pressure. Wash-dry-fold and shirts-on-hangers constitute around 80 percent of the total bulk of clothes handled by the laundry. Dry cleaning makes up about 10 percent, as do linens. The student dry cleaning business has decreased markedly in the last few years, a fact Stacks attributes to “students not caring how they dress these days.” He hopes, however, that coeducation will reverse the trend. In the past, dry cleaning was an $8,000-$10,000 business for the laundry, but has decreased in the last few years to only $2,000-$3,000. Only 20 percent of the clothes which are dry cleaned are for students; the rest are brought in by faculty and townspeople.

Stacks estimates that the laundry handles close to 35,000 pieces a week. Ninety percent of that is brought in by students and close to half the laundry for a given week is brought down Monday and Tuesday. Monday is the busiest day, especially Monday morning between 7-9 a.m. “A half-hour delay in bringing down your laundry could mean at least a day's delay in getting it back,” said Stacks. An average of one bin is filled with laundry bags each day; however, on...Monday usually four or five are filled. Laundry which is brought down Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of a given week is processed during that week. Any laundry deposited on Thursdays, Fridays, or Saturdays is saved and done on Monday morning. So no matter whether a bag is left on Thursday or Saturday, it will not be ready until Monday. Davidson coeds do not usually use the laundry and have irons and coin-operated washers installed in the bathroom on their floors. According to Stacks, the laundry is not geared to handling women's clothing anyway. In 1949, when Stacks became manager of the laundry, all but three of the 23 full-time and five part-time employees were already on the payroll. "The laundry personnel is difficult to replace," Stacks said, "because experience is essential and because it is not easy to find those willing to work for a comparatively low wage." Most of those employed in the laundry live in the Davidson-Cornelius area. They work an eight-hour, five-day week. Five work-study students are also employed. Many of the laundry personnel will retire within the next few years. One of these is J. C. Washem, who began working there in 1931 and whose father also worked in the college laundry. Washem enjoys reminiscing about the days of the wooden washer, hand steam press, and a student body of 350. During the summer, the laundry remains open but runs at a greatly reduced pace. Employees work fewer hours and receive 65 percent of what they are paid during school months. Davidson's laundry is the only one of its type in the United States, Stacks claims. Schools such as Clemson had similar arrangements but abandoned them as their student bodies increased in size. Stacks cites the small size of Davidson's student body and the honor code as the primary reasons for the success of the arrangement here. According to Stacks, some students use the laundry in excess of their fee, but many fail to take advantage of the unlimited use program. "I have found that it all evens out in the end," he said. The system presently functioning at the laundry was instituted four years ago, when $30,000 was spent to replace outdated machinery and set up a more efficient mechanical system to do the work previously done by hand. It was at that time that the linen service and the "pick up your package on the shelf" system were instituted. The new systems have worked very well, and Stacks said they "have more than paid for themselves." The laundry is now under critical review. Again this year, the laundry will operate on a deficit in spite of a slight raise in the fee. If it were not for the patronage of the faculty and community, that deficit would be much larger. Stacks sees 1975 as the year in which the laundry will definitely be revamped. C. David Cornell, Vice President of Finance and Development, has a review of the laundry situation high on his list of priorities and called this year "the year of decision" for the laundry. There are many blueprints for modification or abolition of the laundry. One plan calls for the location of coin washers and dryers in the basements of the dorms or elsewhere on campus. Stacks would rather see them in a central location where their use could be supervised. He cited what happened at Clemson when washers were installed in the dorms. "They all got ripped out and thrown in the creek in less than a month." Another plan calls for the retention of all services at the laundry except for wash-dry-press operations. Students would do that themselves in coin washers located in the present laundry building. Students would be charged directly for any work done by the laundry. (Staff Photos by Barnes)