“
October 27, 1972 Page Eleven

The Davidsonian

Four Teams Tie For Flickerball Lead

As flickerball games heat up, the results have produced co-leaders in each league.

Both the Staten Island Fairies and the WAS finished at the top of League A, while PDT No. 2 and
SAE both tied in League B.

There were some big games in the league.

(Staff photo by Goodman)

PAX IN AIR
PAX and the SIFs fight it out in IMAC action.

Club Gridders Fall To State, Prepare For Game Tomorrow

BRUCE BECKER
Staff Writer

The Davidson club football team was exhausted by NC State 34-2 last Sunday afternoon at the freshman practice field.

The Wildcat clubbers scored first on a safety and NC State followed with a safety of their own, which left
the score tied at halftime 2-2.

In the second half, the Wolfpack broke through with two touchdowns in both the third and fourth quarters. They got
three of them on the ground and the other through the air.

“They didn’t run over us,” said playing coach Carl Rizzo. “They simply exhausted us. We had almost everyone on the
line going both ways. We really played our hearts out.”

The Davidson defense felt the loss of defensive coordinator Bob Wetzel, who could not attend the game. This multiplied Rizzo's
problems with the line.

Davidson continually had trouble with their off-tackle power plays and passing.

Nevertheless, they did move the ball and connected on several third and long situations, according to Rizzo.

Offensive standouts for the Wildcats included Allan Williams, Bill Du Pont, and Len Gillespie. The defense was sparked by Eric
Scharling, Jim Claunch, David McWilliams, and Bruce Reichelderfer.

The club football team has been bothered by a lack of depth.

This week, Mike Deese and Tom Scott, the son of the athletic director, joined the team to allow Rizzo to
move from receiver back to quarterback.

“We have been plagued this season by a lack of depth,” said Rizzo. “We are trying to change to a
two-platoon team which would give our players a rest. This is the biggest change which could help the team.”

The next club football game is presently scheduled for Saturday morning.

The flickerball tournament is now in session on fields 1 and 2.

The finals will take place Monday, if all goes well. The SIFs have dropped out of the picture. The AAs,
F&M, the SPEs, and PDT No. 2 are representing League A.

From the other league, the top four teams are the SAEs, PDT No. 2, PAX, and the Pixies. It really
should be a fine tournament.

The wrestling tournament will get underway on November 1. Weight classes and schedules will be announced soon.

Despite the homecoming festivities, the team is having difficulties securing a location and schedule for the game.

Rent Furniture From MetroLease
Cornelius, N.C.

NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING

“We Rent Tux”

Phone 892-8064

Billiard Tables

Bowling
MOOR LANES

Daytime Student Rates

Snack Bar
Pinball Machines

tastee-freez

of Cornelius

892-8468

BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET

10-9 P.M.

“It’s Incomparable”

Sandwiches — Pizza
Sundaes

50 FLAVOR SHAKES

The Davidson cross-country team lost a five-team meet last Saturday at the freshman practice field. The Wildcats finished last in
the race, which was won by North Carolina.

Davidsonians, use your automatic charge account at

John Mack & Son

in Mooresville — Only 8 miles north
”
