Cagers Cap Season With Loss
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The Davidson cagers capped off their season last weekend with a loss to Syracuse University in the first round of
the National Invitational Tournament. To say a team “capped off” a season with a loss is unusual, but in the
case of the Wildcats, the NIT play was indicative of the regular season—very good, but disappointing.

Throughout the season, the Cats seemed to constantly be on the verge of living up to their potential. They played
consistently well, winning 19 games, but injuries and off-nights kept them from being great. Davidson's nine losses seemed to come
at just the wrong times. Three of those losses were sustained against Southern Conference teams, one of those in the
semifinals of the tournament. That loss to ECU prevented Davidson's participation in the NCAA regionals.

After the SC tourney, the Cats got another chance to try for their twentieth win in the NIT but lost
81-77 to the Orange. “We played horribly,” commented pointman Mike Sorrentino. “We didn’t shoot well or control the boards like
we should have.” The Cats seemed to have the edge in talent and size but were never able to capitalize
on any of the breaks during the game. The game was a defensive contest, especially during the first half when
both teams raced back and forth up the court.

Split Skippers Bounce Back To Take First Win At UVA
By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

With poor showings in their first two competitions behind them, the Davidson College Sailing Team cruised to its first win
this year last Saturday at the University of Virginia. Entering in two South Atlantic Collegiate Sailing Association regattas that day,
the second half of the team traveled to the University of South Carolina while the winning side was making it
big in Charlottesville.

Using their Coronado 15 boats against a field comprised of host U.Va., Old Dominion, and Christopher Newport College, co-captains Jim
Hunter and Allen Lundy each piloted their way to first place on Lake Monticello with identical finishes of two firsts
and two seconds apiece. Moreover, Lundy was named low-point skipper of his division, while Hunter tied for the same honor
in his class. Freshman Harris Ricks crewed for both men in all eight of the races.

“Good breezes” and the fact that “the regatta was run well” were the two key factors in the Davidson triumph,
according to Hunter. He was quick to add, however, that “the competition wasn’t as keen as it had been in
the...

Friday, March 24
2:30 p.m. Track with Guilford here

Saturday, March 25
1 p.m. Rugby with UNC here
1:30 p.m. Baseball with William and Mary here
2 p.m. Tennis with East Stroudsburg here

Sunday, March 26
1 p.m. Rugby with Fayetteville/Ft. Bragg here

Monday, March 27
3 p.m. Baseball with Oberlin here

Tuesday, March 28
2 p.m. Tennis with MIT here
All day Golf with William and Mary here

Wednesday, March 29
3 p.m. Baseball with Johns Hopkins here

Thursday, March 30
3 p.m. Baseball with Johns Hopkins here
All day Golf at Furman Invitational Greenville, S.C.other regattas.” Indeed, against Clemson in the first match of the year, the
Cats could only muster a fourth place out of the six competing colleges, and fared even worse the next time,
ending up with last place in the field against The Citadel at Charleston. The second half of the team fell
far short of their teammates' achievements, however, as the efforts of Clement Rousseng and Daryl Douglas yielded only last place
opposed to a tough lineup of USC, Clemson, The Citadel, and the College of Charleston. Skippering their Penguin craft, Rousseng
came up with first and third place finishes, but was unfortunately disqualified in his last event. Douglas, meanwhile, ended up
with two seconds and a third. The Cats have their eyes on the Conference championship, though, which will be held
at Lake Norman on April 22. In the immediate future, however, lies a very tough regatta on April 8 as
Davidson hosts Duke and the Lake Norman Yacht Club.

The Davidsonian
March 24, 1972
Page Seven

(Staff photos by Barnes)

trying to convert turnovers into points. Both teams failed in their efforts at quick points, but the Orange profited much
more than the Cats. “We just couldn’t get back fast enough,” Sorrentino said. “We hadn’t practiced the week before the
tournament, and we were slow and out of shape.” The Cats were also bigger under the boards than the Orange,
but did not do as well in rebounding as their opponents. One of the reasons was the officiating. The officials
in the tournament were lenient in calling fouls, and the Davidson team, used to picky Southern Conference referees, could not
adjust as quickly as the Orange. The game became very physical under the boards, and the outsized Orange pulled in
53 game rebounds as opposed to the Cats’ 39. Both teams shot poorly, the Cats hitting 42 percent from the
floor and the Orange 40 percent.

The events of the Syracuse game could be extended to describe the entire season. The Cats started off the season
poorly, losing two early Southern Conference games, but bounced back after Christmas to play exceptionally well. Then, about halfway into
the regular season, several key players, notably John Falconi and Joe Sutter, became injured or ill. Sorrentino pointed to this
period, the part of the season that included the win at St. Johns and later the defeat of Princeton, as
the peak of the season. “We were playing at our best then,” he said. “At that time we could have
beaten almost any team in the NIT.” Both St. Johns and Princeton did well in the New York tournament. Guard
Marshall Case saw the overall season in different terms. “The South Carolina game was our emotional peak,” he said. “After
they beat us in Charlotte, the Conference tourney was a letdown.”

Despite these key losses, the team fared well, especially well for one with only three returning lettermen. Eric Minkin, John
Pecorak, and Joe Sutter improved over last year’s play, and Falconi, Sorrentino, Steve Gadaire, Case, T. J. Pecorak, and Paul
Wagner all proved their value to the team, and all, save Minkin, will return. So, the team closes its season
with 19 wins, a substantial record, some distasteful losses, and a great amount of optimism for next year. “Next year
they'll win 25,” was Minkin’s prediction.
