Page Ten

May 5, 1972

The Davidsonian

Cats Close Erratic Season With ECU

By DAVID MELTON
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team closes out an “up and down” season this weekend.

Wildcat Baseball Coach Tom Stevens characterized this season as probably his “most frustrating year” as baseball coach at Davidson.

He added that the team has much more potential than it has shown this year.

Stevens said that this Wildcat team is “the best assembly of athletes” that he has had at Davidson.

He feels the major weak points of the team are defense and hitting. In 28 games this year, the Cats
have committed 65 errors, and Stevens quickly pointed out that “this is too many errors to make and still have
a winning season.”

The other problem the team has faced is the inability to score runs.

The Wildcats are about the second or third team in batting averages but are about last in the category of
the number of runs scored in the conference.

Tuesday, the team traveled to Belmont Abbey where they lost 3-1. The Cats left 10 runners on base.

Stevens pointed out that Davidson had many more opportunities to score than Belmont Abbey, but were unable to cash in.

Meanwhile, the Abbey made the best of its opportunities, including a two-run double.

Thinclads Split Dual Meet, Close Season At SC Meet

By TOM SOOS
Staff Writer

Davidson track coach Heath Whittle coached his last home meet last weekend, but it is difficult to say whether his
team won or lost.

The thinclads competed in two dual meets simultaneously Friday, defeating the Keydets from VMI, but falling to The Citadel.

The Citadel managed to overpower the Cats by a score of 78-67. The main reason for the Bulldogs’ victory was
their superior depth.

In the 17-event meet, the Davidson tracksters managed to take seven firsts, nine seconds, and five thirds.

The Davidson runners, however, did do much better against VMI. The score of that meet was 81-57.

As usual, the team was paced by Ray Swetenburg. This week Swetenburg broke his own high hurdle record with a
time of 14.2.

Other records were broken by Woody VanMeter and David Crumpler. VanMeter broke his own record in the pole vault and
Crumpler set a new school record in the discus.

He was more concerned with the Southern Conference Meet which is this weekend in Greenville, S.C.

Whittle felt that the Davidson team should do relatively well. “We should be at a peak and we have a
good chance to place fifth,” he said.

The schools that he picks to finish ahead of Davidson are William and Mary, East Carolina, Richmond, and Furman.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine

OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

GUS’S ORIGINAL

FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

Come in for suggestions -

Free gift wrap!

The Village Store

Davidson, N.C.

Last Saturday, the Cats split a doubleheader at The Citadel 10 and 12 in what Stevens termed as “two well-pitched
games.”

Although the pitching has improved, the team still ranks last in the conference in earned-run average.

Stevens also added that the team has seemed to hit better against the better pitchers.

Stevens has been well-pleased with the performances of several of the players.

Freshman George Weicker received praise for his hitting, which is third in the conference.

Stevens also pointed out that Harold Wilkerson’s all-around play and Mark Rodgman’s RBI production should be commended.

Pitchers Dwight Plemmons, Mike Frye, and Joe Duncan also drew praise. Duncan, however, has been sidelined for the rest of
the season by recurring ankle injuries.

The Wildcats close out this season with three home games this weekend. Today, at 1:30 p.m. the Cats have a
doubleheader with Furman, and tomorrow a single game with East Carolina at 2 p.m.

Stevens hopes that “we can gain back self-respect in these last three games.”

* Co-sponsor of the successful Constitutional Amendment for the 18-year-old vote.

Initiated move among southern Senators by being first to vote for ending U.S. involvement in Vietnam.

A Man Who Listens — A Man Who Votes

RE-ELECT

JORDAN
U.S. SENATE

Paid for by Jordan for Senate Committee
