Committee Studies Possible Patterns For Student Living
By BRUCE MALOY
Asst. Managing Editor

New student housing consisting of small townhouse-type buildings is being considered by the newly organized Committee on Future Campus Housing, according to Dean of Students, Will Terry. The one architect's plan which has been received calls for the housing to be situated to the north and west of Patterson Court.

Terry said that the new housing should include kitchen facilities for snacks and an occasional meal as well as a certain amount of privacy. “We want to avoid too small units which provide a sort of cliqueishness among a few people,” added Terry. “We now have dormitories, what we need are residence halls. The committee hopes to make a breakthrough in housing patterns for students,” said Terry. “We also want to avoid mass housing, particularly for upperclassmen. I think barracks-type housing is abominable for upperclassmen.”

“On the other hand, I think ‘hall housing’ builds unity and a sense of community for freshmen,” Terry said. “New housing will thin out the population in old housing and enable us to do more extensive renovating. Both small unit and dormitory housing need a means by which students can let off steam and have recreational opportunities where they live,” added Terry.

“This summer Mrs. Nicholls, a builder, an architect, and I, at the builder's expense, visited several colleges similar to Davidson. We visited Bard College in New York, Vassar, and Worcester and New College and Eckard in Florida. We hope to avoid some of their mistakes, see what new things are being done, and see how other colleges are avoiding our mistakes,” said Terry.

Student Housing Director, Mrs. Peter Nicholls, commented on the trip saying, “We saw that new buildings don’t have to imitate in order to blend or complement existing buildings.” Mrs. Nicholls continued, “We have plenty of land and there is no reason to go to anything high-rise.”

Davidsonian
September 29, 1972
Page Three

ONE PATTERN OF HOUSING
The Committee on Future Campus Housing is considering this plan.

Three Black Students Protest Campus Police Harassment
By DOUG BROWN
Managing Editor

Three of Davidson's twenty black students have been detained by campus police since September 18, and despite their protests to the college administration, no action has been taken.

Union Counts Questionnaires
By HUGH HENNIS
Staff Writer

The College Union will begin tabulating today student and faculty responses to a questionnaire on what facilities a new Union building should include, according to C. Shaw Smith, Union director. Last week the Union distributed a list of possible facilities and asked students and faculty to designate which ones they felt were essential for an effective Union building. The list included such items as a multi-purpose ballroom, an art gallery, an arts and crafts shop, and a quiet room. In his list of suggestions, Smith also included a check cashing service, a movie theater, an ice skating rink, and a gym exercising area as possible features in a new Union building.

“We want to make this a personal Union, a place where the desires and interests of the majority of persons concerned are taken care of,” Smith said.

If the goal of a lecturer is to leave his class breathless, Asst. Professor Grant succeeds. Wednesday he took his Biology 21 class on one of many trips to discover first-hand the myriad life in various types of soil; complete with a “running lecture.”

In a paper entitled “A Proposal for Planning a Program Book For a New College Union at Davidson,” Smith suggested several sites for the location of the new Union building. The most suitable site, according to Smith, is the area where the Lingle Manor now stands. It would provide easy access for the community from Main Street and it would be close to the dining services and residence halls. The cheapest plan would be the renovation of the old library, once the new one is completed; however, Smith said such a site was removed from the mainstream of student traffic. Other locations include the center of Patterson Court, the area where the laundry and heating plant is now located, and an underground site between the new library and the residence halls.

“My idea of the perfect Union would include an entrance lounge surrounded by four glass cubicles or...rooms, perhaps on two levels," Smith said. They would include a student store, arts and crafts room, student government offices, and an area where debates and discussions could easily be seen by all outside persons. "At the present time, however, the biggest obstacle involved is that of money," Smith said. Along with the Union, such departments as fine arts, housing, and chemistry are also seeking funds for improvement. Once the Union completes the tabulation of the survey, Union officials will begin to write a program for the building which must be submitted to the Campus Planning Committee by Oct. 21.

According to the blacks, they were singled out from other students by an unidentified Town of Davidson policeman working for the college under a contractual agreement with the town. Senior Reggie Kennedy, and Sophomores Leonard Thompson and Reggie Harding have individually met with Dean of Students Will H. Terry, but they have been dissatisfied by his response. A meeting about this matter with Physical Plant Director Grover C. Meetze, who is in charge of campus security, was to have been held Thursday.

Describing his discussions with each of the three, Terry said, "I suggested that the black students get together with the security personnel so that the black students could become known by them. The security personnel have to learn that all blacks do not look alike." One of the steps that might have to be taken by the campus police to "know" black students better is to get the license numbers of the cars of black students. Terry claimed that if this was done, trespassers would be stopped by the police but not blacks attending Davidson. "This type of activity must be stopped," Terry added.

When asked if he knew about black students being stopped and questioned, Joe Pindar, a policeman who patrols the campus by car at night, said, "If it was done, I imagine the policeman wanted to know who the Davidson students are. They are strangers to us, and we would just like to know them better. We need to know them by their physical features so this type of thing can be avoided in the future. We have had this problem with larceny."

The first student to be stopped and questioned was Reggie Harding on the night of Sept. 18. According to Harding, he was followed by a campus policeman from the parking lot of the Student Union to the parking lot of Belk. While waiting for a car to pull out of a parking space, the policeman pulled up alongside Harding's car and asked him what he was doing and if he were a Davidson student. Harding said, "He gave me this sly smile and said, 'I was just checking to make sure you didn’t go up to the dorms.' He then pulled off."

On the night of Sept. 21, Reggie Kennedy was followed by a campus policeman from the parking lot of Belk to the intersection of Concord Rd. and Main, where he was signaled to the side of the road. Kennedy said the policeman looked at his student ID card, his driver’s license, and his car registration. "Some people don’t carry their wallets or IDs with them at all times," Kennedy said. "I don’t want someone always staring over my back. I don’t like being accused of being a criminal."

Another student questioned by the police was Leonard Thompson last Sunday night as he left Lingle Manor. According to Thompson, after he had shown the policeman his student ID, he asked for a "special piece of paper" showing Thompson was in fact a Davidson student. Thompson said, "I told him my student ID was sufficient, and he was shocked that I had not been informed that I would need this special sheet of paper in the future. He then walked off."

Thompson disagrees with Terry's assertion that the problem stems from policemen not "knowing" who the black students are. He said, "It's not that the cops don't know blacks. It’s as if all blacks should be stopped on campus because they are into something. I hate to say it but this reflects a racist attitude," added Thompson. Thompson said he was stopped and questioned by campus security guards twice last year, and he said other blacks have been stopped in the past.