Page Two February 11, 1972 The Davidsonian

LOUD AND CLEAR

This is just one of the 500 buttons appropriated by the SGA Senate from the February 1 meeting. The request came in the form of a $30 loan from ad hoc committee member Mike Scott, in order to keep the trustees informed that coeducation is still considered the foremost issue among Davidson students. Further, a motion was carried to double the appropriation for the buttons, which should be available by next week.

Bevan Confirms Trimester As ‘New Academic Calendar

By TOM BRUCE
Contributing Editor

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan announced Monday afternoon that Davidson would retain the 3-3-3 calendar for another year. Bevan indicated at the regular meeting of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) that he did not feel that the recent faculty questionnaire on revision of the present calendar constituted a mandate for change in the calendar. However, he indicated that an effort would be made to construct the 1972-73 calendar so that the winter term would not be split by the Christmas holidays.

Two variations on calendars that would keep the fall term before Christmas, without fragmenting the winter term, have been suggested. The first plan would begin classes ten weeks before Thanksgiving and would feature a five-week vacation, beginning Thanksgiving week and going through New Year's Day. The second calendar would project a split fall term with the winter term beginning right after New Year’s. Both calendars would end the school year by the first week in June.

Bevan said, “I think it is very important that we guard against a shortening of the time that students are on campus actively gaining from the college experience.” “A number of schools, because of economic considerations, offer a five-week Christmas vacation plus four months off in the summer. I don’t think that this is a wise step,” he added. Professor of Mathematics R. Bruce Jackson stated in the EPC meeting that the summer vacation should not be unduly delayed, because Davidson students might have difficulty in securing summer jobs if the Davidson summer recess begins after that at other colleges.

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

News Editor:
TOM AINSWORTH

Photography Editor:
BILL BARNES

Assistant Managing Editors:
BILL GIDUZ
BOB HOWELL
THOM NICOLL
MIKE TANNER

Copy Editors:
BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY

Assistant Business Managers:
RICHARD ROMEYN
RICH SMITH
PHIL STIKES

Assistant Sports Editors:
HOWARD BOYD
CHARLIE TERRELL

Contributors this week:
David Arant, John Cassels, Alan Ford, and Richard Romeyn.

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
ROBERT TOUCHTON
GRAY WILSON

Contributing Editors:
TOM BRUCE
TODD EADES
DAVID HANIG
JIM HANNA

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKOM
KEVIN BRODE
PAUL MITCHELL

Photographers:
TOM CAMPBELL
DAVE DOTY
TODD EADES
FRANK ERWIN
JOE RODRIGUEZ

Circulation:
ROBERT GATES
GREG MITCHELL

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Administrators Reveal Plans For 1972 Summer Programs

By THOM NICOLL
Asst. Managing Editor

Administration officials announced on Tuesday plans for Davidson's 1972 summer session and extended the policy of allowing regular students to participate for full credit in the Liberal Arts Program for Teachers. Director of Instructional Development J. H. Ostwalt pointed to the special psychology course with Broughton Hospital and to increased extended studies opportunities as the major innovations for this year’s program. According to Ostwalt and William B. Hight, who directs the teachers’ program, the first term will run from June 12 through June 30 and the second from July 10 through July 28. Class sessions will last from 8:30 a.m. until noon, with a 40-minute break at 9:50. Every class will meet 170 minutes per day for five days a week.

Regular courses offered first term will include Chemistry 101, English 103, English 250, German 1, History 161, Math 25, Physics 31, Political Science 140, Psychology 101, and Religion 131. Second term courses will include Chemistry 102, Economics 201, English 250, German 10, History 162, Math 26, Physics 23, and Political Science 110. Ostwalt stated that a course in geography and Physics 32 are still being considered and that other courses may be added. Professor assignments and tuition will be announced later.

Both Ostwalt and Hight said that the participation of students in last year’s Liberal Arts program had been so successful that there had never been any question about continuing the policy. First term courses in the teachers’ program that students will be allowed to take are Readers Theater under Professor of Drama Rupert Barber; Creative Writing under Professor of English Charles Cornwell, Black-white Relations under Professor of Sociology Joseph Drake, and Women in American Fiction under Professor of English James Purcell. Students may take the following special courses during the second term: The Art of Poetry under Professor of English Anthony Abbott, Deviance in Drugs and Sexual Behavior under Drake, Warand Conscience under Professor of Religion Samuel Maloney and Negro Voices in American Literature under Purcell. These courses will be listed in the summer catalog and may be taken for full credit or for extended Studies 1 and 2. Davidson students will pay just as they would for regular courses, while teachers, whose tuition is paid by the state and several small foundations, will pay only a registration fee. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan stated that he had questioned conducting the summer session for another year, and that if this year’s program were no more successful than last year’s, he would recommend that the program be discontinued. “If we are losing money and if few students are benefiting from the summer session, then we are wasting our time and money. Last year’s program was not successful in terms of enrollment.” Bevan said that he “failed to see strong support for the summer session,” and that the college may have to move toward special institutes and independent study rather than regular classes during the summer. Ostwalt said he would like to see students from outside the South come to Davidson for a summer for the experience of living in this region. Student body president Ralph Peeples said that to get more students into summer schools, “we need more publicity. They ought to do a better selling job. I've never known of them really trying to get students to come during the summer.” Both Bevan and Hight reported that publicity is being increased and that information is being released earlier than it has been in the past. Though Bevan expressed doubts about the summer program in general, Hight is enthusiastic about the future of the Liberal Arts program. “We set up this program six years ago to help teachers in their areas of need. The program has been successful largely because of the teaching ability of the faculty. Last year we took a look and decided to keep the teachers program going. After all, Davidson is here in the summer with its faculty and facilities, and we feel we should enlarge our scope to include the whole educational community.”

Students Favor Coeds (Continued from Page 1)

have on alumni giving. One of the basic differences between this questionnaire and those of the past is that this one plans for coeducation, Patterson said. These plans were of three basic types. Plans of the first type call for a sister school to be established or moved to the immediate vicinity of Davidson. Over 55 percent of those who expressed an opinion rejected these proposals, and of those who did support them, only 19 percent did so with enthusiasm. Attracting the greatest support was a plan which proposed the admission of 300-500 coeds while keeping the number of men at the present level. Over 78 percent of students indicated they would prefer this plan to any other. This plan also has the support of a majority of the faculty. The majority of those who were opposed to it were those who indicated they were against or undecided about any form of coeducation. A similar plan calling for an addition of up to 400 women and a corresponding decrease in the number of men also received strong support. Two proposals of a third type which would provide for the admission of junior and senior coed transfers or exchange students were rejected in a majority of questionnaires. Only a slim six percent would prefer this type of plan to any other. The alumni questionnaires have not yet been tabulated, but it is expected that the results will be released sometime within the next two weeks.

Senate Considers (Continued From Page 1)

provide security (“at least one more man on duty per night”) and to improve lighting in certain areas of the campus. He also suggested that at night students be provided as escorts for the coeds, that students walk over in the area between the main part of the campus and Grey House, and that the Guest House be provided with some chemical repellant, such as aerosol cans of mace. The Senate approved the resolution unanimously. College Registrar Richard C. Burts, Jr. spoke to the Senate about changes in the self-scheduled exam system. “These two changes grow out of experience and much time spent on the part of the Registrar’s office,” he said. “In the past, we have let students pick up their exams and turn them in at any time during a particular exam period,” Burts explained. “However, because of the confusion which results when some students are turning in their exams while others are still trying to pick theirs up, we'll have to require that students receive and return exams only during the times specified for each.” “From now on, students will not be able to alter their schedules once they have been set,” he said, but added, “Of course, we can make exceptions for illnesses and other emergencies.”