Page Ten February 4, 1972 The Davidsonian

French, Drama Departments Bring Moliere To Davidson

By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Associate Editor

You can do anything if you know the language. Well, almost anything. Last fall French professor Joe Otis Embry’s French
136 (French Conversation and Composition) class did something different. Instead of just reading a play in a foreign language they
decided to translate it. The play is Moliere’s The Doctor in Spite of Himself, one of the famous French playwright’s
broadest farces. At that point the story could have been ended. But the class and the Davidson Drama Department didn’t
let it stop there. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday nights in the Morrison Room the play will be on stage. The
same play French 136 translated last fall.

Student director George Draughon didn’t choose any of Davidson's budding young translators for parts. But he did choose a cast
of eight freshmen and sophomore men and three coeds for the eleven roles. Draughon said he checked other translations of
the play to see how they compared with French 136's version. They were amazingly similar. A very recent translation, particularly,
is strikingly close.

One of the problems the class faced was in translating peasant dialogue which did not translate into English, a not
uncommon problem when the simplest vernacular is used in a play. French 136 made the peasants into American hicks, perhaps
taking their inspiration from those at Hattie’s. So did the professional playwright.

(Staff photo by Barnes)
“DOCTOR IN SPITE OF HIMSELF” Draughon, Craven and Vernon put their heads together.

Political Project Attracts Local Campaign Officials

A political workshop program, instituted by Sophomores Bob Cunningham and Glenn Meee as a Political Science project, is bringing in
local politicians and media representatives to give Davidson students a perspective into the workings of a political campaign. Ralph Huitt,
former government official, will be the first speaker in the series of talks over February and March. His hour-long speech,
“Behind the Scenes of a Congressional Campaign,” will take place Monday at 10:00 a.m. in Perkins Auditorium.

Later that day, at 3:00 p.m. in Perkins, both the Republican and Democratic County Chairmen, Henry Wilmer and A. Myles
Haynes, will speak on the effect of their positions on elections. Women's roles in campaigns will then be discussed by
Republican Mrs. H. A. Bissell and Democrat Mrs. Louise Brennan. Rounding off the day's talks will be William Culp Sr.,
executive secretary of the Mecklenburg County board of elections, talking on the problems of his office.

Next day's presentations will start off with representatives from the Charlotte Observer and Charlotte News and WBTV and WSOC -
explaining the importance of their respective media in presenting the candidates to the voters, and which media persuades more people.
Finally, that afternoon at 3:00 p.m. in Perkins, Republican Jim Martin and Democrat Jim Beatty, leading candidates for the ninth
congressional district, will attack different issues and answer questions put forth by a panel of Davidson students. Later their campaign
managers will explain how they present their candidates to the public.

The context of the presentation will also be something different for Davidson. The Union and the Drama Department collectively thought
up a ‘dessert theatre’ similar to dinner theatres in large cities but on a smaller scale. The food service will
provide a wide variety of toppings for ice cream sundaes which will be made by each viewer. Tentative plans call
for the actors to be waiters before the play. Coffee and tea or other beverages will also be served. Tickets
for the play should be reserved in the Union or at the Cunningham Fine Arts Center ticket office. A limited
number of seats is available.

... YMCA A (Continued from Page 1)

accepting the post of college chaplain, Woodmansee was not clearly informed that he would not be a member of the
faculty. Last spring Woodmansee wanted to be an advisor of some extended studies projects, but he was not allowed to
do this because he was not a member of the faculty. According to Duncan, the Religious Policy Committee composed of
administrators, faculty and students...will make the decision on the future of the chaplaincy. “Woodmansee was the YMCA and that was
wrong,” says Duncan. “He picked up the slack created by students who failed to do their part.” Assistant to the
President Greg Scott, who was president of the YMCA for 1970-1971, disagrees with this view. Scott commented, “Woodmansee was the
focus of the YMCA without being its controlling figure in past years.” Dean of Students Will Terry said that he
could not give his opinion on the type of chaplain he favored because he did not want to prejudice the
case. However, he did indicate that every plan, except the proposal for a chaplain essentially as he is now, would
cause procedural issues.

Saturday, February 5
8:00 p.m. Movie: “Cry the Beloved Country”

Monday, February 7
10:00 a.m. Movie: “The Changing World of Charles Dickens”
7:30 p.m. Dessert Theatre: “The Doctor in Spite of Himself”

Tuesday, February 8
10:00 a.m. Questions? Dr. Spencer
7:30 p.m. Dessert Theatre: “The Doctor in Spite of Himself”
8:00 p.m. Religious Film Festival

Wednesday, February 9
7:30 p.m. Dessert Theatre: “The Doctor in Spite of Himself”

Thursday, February 10
8:00 p.m. Pottery Around the World: Douglas Ferguson
8:00 p.m. Fine Film: “Ikiru”
10:00 p.m. Movie: “Owl and the Pussycat”

In response to the claim that there is no need for a chaplain, Terry said, “Many say this out of
a lack of understanding for the religious situation on campus or a lack of appreciation for people’s felt or unfelt
religious needs.” Duncan said, “The YMCA, like other organizations, is stagnant. The lack of student interest is hurting us. This
year we had one of the biggest sign-ups at the Activities Fair. One month later the interest had died. The
effective interest was not there. In our ‘Deputations’ program there was a lack of faculty participation.”

As an example of lack of support by students of the YMCA, Long cited the fact that when Davidson had
an enrollment of 600, the YMCA was able to collect $5,000 in its annual fall fund drive. “This year we
collected only $2,100 in our fall fund drive, and we now have more students and they are more affluent,” Long
said. “Our budget last year was the lowest in memory, for it was only $1,600. We had to have a
spring fund drive, and the $800 we collected then was quite disappointing.”

892-8468 tastee-freez of Cornelius
BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET “It’s Incomparable”
Sandwiches — Pizza Sundaes 50 FLAVOR SHAKES 10-9 P.M.
Salads “After Church” Sunday Buffet All You Can Eat 12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken Beverages Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room

In looking at what the YMCA should do in the future, Scott feels, “It should retain its function of providing
a program for the spiritual needs of the individual student. Naturally, there should be an expansion of social action. However,
the primary goal of the YMCA should be to deal with the spiritual needs of students, and if it did
not do this it would cease to be the YMCA.”

In Duncan's view, “If the YMCA doesn’t move forward, it's headed for doom. The YMCA must broaden its appeal and
its scope. In conjunction with the depot move, the YMCA should actively involve itself in community affairs.”

Peeples believes that the YMCA should stop asking itself whether everything it does is religious before it does something which
is very necessary. “Perhaps it would be best if the YMCA changed its name so that it would no longer
be tied to convention and custom.”

All the things I really like to do are either immoral, illegal, or fattening.
—Alexander Woollcott

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what “low net cost” really means.
Hal Mapes Jim Roy 892-1467 892-1424
ROBERT T. STONE District Agent
NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE - MILWAUKEE
