Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Page Ten

TERRE

Friday, April 28
Sunday, April 30
Monday, May 1
Tuesday, May 2

10 a.m. Any Questions?
April 28, 1972

Up ’n’ Coming
10 a.m. Voter Education
8 p.m. Appalachian Trail
8:15 p.m. Experimental Films

Davidson Presbyterian Church
7 p.m. Flying Club Meeting
7 p.m. Football Club
8:15 p.m. William Lawing - Allen Ware - clarinet
8:45 p.m. Student Organ Recital
9:30 p.m. Christian Fellowship
10 p.m. Grievance Committee

The Davidsonian
ARTS Morrison Room
Perkins Auditorium
Stowe Gallery
208 Chambers
Green Room
Trumpet
Hodson Hall
Green Room
Blue Room

Dr. Spencer
Morrison Room
9 p.m. Symposium on Crime
Green Room

Wednesday, May 3
8 p.m. Fine Film: “Look Back in Anger”
Love Auditorium
6 p.m. Davidson Bridge Club
Wildcat A and B

Thursday, May 4
7:30 p.m. “The Dutchman”
Hodson Hall
8:30 p.m. Sonya Sanchez
Hodson Hall

Friday, May 5
11 a.m. Film: “Black History: Lost, Stolen, or Strayed”
Perkins Auditorium

Drive Renewed For Beer Permit
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Staff Writer

The sale-of-beer-on-campus issue is once again alive. The most recent drive for a beer permit died last October within the
catacombs of the administration. At that time College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. released this statement of his position: “The
Code of Responsibility leaves the individual free to make his own decisions about the use of alcoholic beverages. ... Beer
and wines are readily available. Under the present circumstances Bevan, Dean Terry and I do not consider it necessary or
desirable for the college to sell alcoholic beverages."

Spencer’s position has not changed in the ensuing months, and this week he reaffirmed it. He also added that he
feels the sale of beer on campus would give additional ammunition to those already alarmed about the changes at Davidson
in recent years. Spencer sees it “as another cause of alienation of the alumni.”

Leading the drive for beer are Student Body President Ralph Peeples and Union President Stanley Hassinger. Peeples says he understands
Spencer’s position but disagrees with his feelings about the alumni. “I sometimes get the feeling that a single letter of
protest from an alumnus carries more weight around here than a resolution from the Senate or a petition of student
support,” he said. “I think this issue deserves attention and should be seriously considered.”

Hassinger sees the sale of beer “as the kind of thing which would draw needed traffic to the Guest House.”
The Guest House will become the union next year when the present one is demolished. If the union did get
a beer permit a rathskeller has been proposed. In it beer would be sold at as low a price as
possible and a slight profit would be used to provide live entertainment.

Terry is one of those who agree in principle to the sale of beer and the rathskeller idea. “It’s the
kind of place that students could gather informally and would do a great deal to serve the community,” he said.
Terry agrees, however, with Spencer's position, and added “the college can't afford to thumb its nose at the people who
supplythe money.” As it stands now, there is little chance for beer to be sold on campus next year. Even
in the event that Spencer did give his approval, the trustees must also consider the issue.

The next move is up to you. Where would you rather live after graduation? Phoenix? Dallas? Los Angeles? Boston? Minneapolis?
Denver? Or Miami? NML has an internship program for juniors and seniors that will get you ready for a rewarding
career job in the place you’ve always wanted to be. It’s your move. Give your future a place to go!
Call Jim Roy or Bob Stone, District Agent 892-1424 for all the details.

Senate Receives Assessment Of Coeducation Prospects
By JOHN CASSELS
Staff Writer

The Senate received a report Monday night on the status of coeducation at Davidson, presented by Senator Bo Phillips, which
indicated that the prospects next year for up to 135 girls looked good. Phillips reported that H. Edmunds White has
already sent out letters to over 100 girls who have contacted him, urging them to apply to Davidson before May
5 in anticipation of favorable action by the trustees on the Educational Policy Committee’s Coeducation Report. White had previously told
Phillips that he had been assured of adequate housing for 100 girls over and above the 35 already admitted to
the consortium. White expressed amazement when informed that only one floor of Little had been reserved for possible coed use.

Ralph Peeples announced that he would chair a sub-committee to look into all changes that will be necessary with 100
girls attending Davidson. He expressed hopes that this committee action would show that students are involved already in paving a
smooth road for the advent of coeducation.

The traditional Trustee’s Tea will be held next Thursday night and Peeples urged all senators to attend and show the
Trustees their commitment to coeducation before Friday’s vote on the Coeducation Report.

In other action, the Senate passed 10-2 a resolution presented by Skip Holcombe for the Grievance Committee asking that the
faculty be urged to change its present by-laws which require a professor to be an active member of a Christian
faith to receive tenure.

Bo Phillips reported that Vice President For Academic Affairs John M. Bevan is giving serious consideration to a change in
curriculum. Phillips reported that Bevan said several professors are not satisfied with the present extended studies program, and that there
is continued objection to a split winter term.

Todd Eades reported that there was no action necessary on the request for renewal of the Young Republican Club charter,
since the group requesting the renewal did not hold a charter at present.

Peeples reported that he and Union President Stan Hassinger had met with President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. on the possibility
of beer sales on campus. “Although Spencer does not disagree in principle, he did not feel that this was the
proper time to push it or that it is a major concern,” Peeples stated.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS —
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

BILL DEAL and the RHONDELS
7:00 P.M.
CATAWBA COLLEGE
Salisbury, N.C.
GOODMAN GYM.
Tickets Are Only $3.00 At The Door
