GRAY WILSON  
The Davidsonian  
October 27, 1972  
Page Five  

Homecoming Revives Painful Memory  

I have a homecoming memory three years old. It begins after about five weeks as an alpha number, just long enough to know what mixers and blind dates could do to your health, ego, and welfare. It begins with the realization that maybe a little insurance, such as the girl back home, would be a good idea for three days and then stand in a stairwell 30 minutes waiting for a busy signal in the phone booth while the guys behind you in line bang on the glass impatiently with their coins. But she will be there on Friday and the next five days are a rice paddy inside from waiting. Fortunately, there are no reviews that week; they all come the Monday after.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR  

Preparations are in panic by Thursday night and work is finally completed on an award-winning freshman display of a jerseyed opponent revolving headfirst in a commode labeled “Flush ‘Em, Cats.” Other more obscene banners with a cruder ambiguity will be flying from dorm windows by Saturday. The real flush comes Friday at noon when every three-term wimp is evicted from Belk Dorm to make room for incoming dates. But if you miss all this and drive into Charlotte to pick up your date at the Station you still have to face a zoo. You wait and stare at the wall of schedules while a slice of New York City streams around you until a well-tuned diesel pulls in from your hometown. You see her face first as she shoves her way through luggaged people and it is smaller than you imagined the past week, but nevertheless, she is there, a part of your next two and a half days. You drive back to Davidson to show her around the campus like a war veteran and then check her into Belk just to find a third body already mattressed into your room back in the freshman dorm. There will be time, though, and both of you are ready to take in everything on the schedule by six that evening. Culture before pleasure, however, and an opera by Strauss precedes the real party later on that night featuring...

Student And Reader Express Diverse Views On Candidates  

To the Editor:  

I have several objections to Peter Celentano’s scathing attack on my alleged “offensive” letter of Oct. 5. The difference in our letters being that my objections are well-founded. Mr. Celentano claims I have characterized “Tricky” as a “deceitful, incompetent criminal.” This is an interesting accusation. If you would care to reread my letter, Mr. Celentano, you will realize that all I have written is the typical pro-Nixon propaganda rhetoric responsible for our hallowed President's support. Perhaps Mr. Celentano has a guilty conscience? But now that YOU have mentioned it, how should we explain the pilfering of $250,000.00 of taxpayers’ money for eight separate campaign purposes, “forgetting” to list his $240,000.00 San Clemente estate with the $60,000.00 stucco wall built with taxpayers’ money on his financial statement, or the extensive sabotage effort of the Democratic campaign including the Watergate burglary, and illegal campaign funding from corporations and Mexico! (Sources: G.A.O., F.B.I., Mr. Kaneklides explains: “Boys will be boys.” Do we want “boys” running America?)

Mr. Celentano claims that I forgot “that George McGovern allegedly used the youth vote to force an unworkable platform through the Democratic committee.” Young people have the highest percentage of politically active citizens. These people are also well-informed. A true Democracy requires an informed electorate. It is absurd to believe that the sabotage efforts were solely the ideas of bungling underlings. Nixon has also achieved international acclaim as a War Criminal for continuing to pour more bomb-tonnage in anti-personnel bombs alone on Vietnam than the total tonnage of WW II, as well as the widespread destruction of life from napalm and the spraying of herbicides. There is no reason to believe North Vietnam would not release our POWs if we stop bombing them and pull out. Nixon claimed 14,000 French prisoners were detained by the North Vietnamese after their peace treaty; the very next day the French government denounced that as a blatant lie! All prisoners were in fact released.

McGovern's program actually calls for a return to traditional values and the ideals of our Founding Fathers: a Free Enterprise system with social responsibility. The economic reform consists of the rich people paying the same tax percentage as the factory worker--Is this unfair? Taxes on wages and salaries would not be increased one cent. Nixon's large following reflects the carefree attitude of Middle America to take the political scene seriously. Why won't America listen to Carl Rowan, Dr. Galston, or Allen Ginsberg? Wake Up, America! McGovern IS for the People.  

Mike Ernst ‘73  
Davidson College  

To the Editor:  

On November 7th American voters will face a contrived choice between two leftists. Richard Nixon is (1) trading with the enemy, (2) feeding our wheat to the enemy to keep him strong, (3) making disarmament agreements with an enemy who has broken 24 out of the last 25 agreements, (4) now operating the country as a dictator! On the other hand, McGovern is leading a pack of militant street revolutionaries, including Rennie Davis who has spoken at Davidson, Abbie Hoffman, Ralph Abernathy, and a gaggle of socialist professors. McGovern has the solid backing of Americans for Democratic Action, including Hubert Humphrey, Ramsey Clark, John K. Galbraith. Our hope, it seems to me, is to go ahead and elect Nixon, and then wake up and begin to pound on a new Congress and on Nixon to head off the socialist trend that goes on and on under Republicans or Democrats. Wallace said it right: “There isn't a dime's worth of difference between them.” However, the public may be waking up, and that could make a difference. Wallace got shot for arousing us to our danger. You will not get shot if you begin to write your congressmen and the President. Don't stop with voting - make your voice heard. I would suggest that every student and professor in this college write to President Nixon, in your own words, and ask him this: “You declared a state of emergency on August 15th, 1971, fourteen months ago. That gave you dictatorial powers. The emergencies have passed. When will you relinquish those powers?" We get filled with trash like Watergate, and...are led away from the real issues. We are becoming a Socialist dictatorship. It is encouraging that Prof. E. F. Patterson has come out for Rennie Davis, Ralph Abernathy, William Kunstler, and McGovern. In 1968, before the present student body came to Davidson, Prof. Patterson was straining every nerve and fiber rooting for that politically extinct Pied Piper poet, Eugene McCarthy. I think he has picked the wrong horse again, in “let the commies have it” McGovern. I find it possible to hope so. The extent of McGovern's belief that college students are utterly stupid and incredibly naive is illustrated by quoting from a speech he made to students at the University of Wisconsin on Friday evening, March 5th, 1971. Cravenly kissing the (shall we say) feet of these young people he said, “No one under 30 can be drafted” and “In all American combat operations, each member of Congress and each member of the President's National Security Council and Joint Chiefs of Staff shall devote a period of time to front-line combat duty.” Proof of the above asinine and boot-licking statements will be sent by me on request.

E. P. Thornton
Murrells Inlet, S.C.

“Brother Aorta and the Pious Yak.” By midnight you feel the rack tighten, but first a flick about Mercutio, a friar, a sail, and two kids in love. Even happy hours seem long by the time you finally catch winks after 4:00 a.m. A sophomore sleeps on the floor in the middle of your room. Saturday comes so quickly that taking a hot shower at noon leaves you dizzy. You stagger over to the stadium with your date but find it difficult to see the stands for the alumni. While hunting a seat you notice that the day is overcast like somebody sat on the sun, and rather than purge itself with a few honest drops of rain, the mist just clings to you like wet Kleenex. Before the kickoff, you leave your date under an umbrella and go down to the field. There you form two lines with the other freshmen through which the football team runs, growling. Seeing this, the shelves of people leap to their feet cheering, and the game begins. Davidson wins this time, and the only losers are 13 girls at halftime. There are 10 nice girls, two pretty ones, and the winner, Miss Queen Bee, and she is a real loser. Only Hattie is truly worthy. Saturday night your big time means waiting for a group two hours late only to find out how bad they are, but otherwise, it is like the night before except the “goodnight” comes two hours earlier. Sunday morning the room is a minefield of clothes and dead bodies. The sophomore in the middle of the room has an arm hanging out of the sheets like a trip wire, and after stepping on it once without any response, you realize that he is no longer alive. The electric razor sounds too much like a fire drill to use this morning, so you take your date to church with a rough, lean look on your face. Here Will Terry preaches a sermon on sex, and you know your date is really impressed later on by the way she sits thoughtfully over a lunch of roast beef and milk. All the way back to the Charlotte bus station you begin to think about those reviews waiting for you on Monday. She leaves as she came, and in a few seconds, the diesel zoo fades out of sight and sound into nothing more than a memory, and all the way back to Davidson you wonder if that sophomore corpse is still lying there in the middle of your room.

Holshouser, Beatty Get Student Praise

To the Editor:

There are a few things which I believe the faculty and especially the students attending Davidson from North Carolina should be aware of concerning the gubernatorial race. Despite the fact that Bowles has spent more than $1 million, Holshouser has closed the gap in the polls on an average of 2.5 percent every two weeks for the last two months. Until now Jim's campaign has spent about $160,000. Hargrove Bowles says he's opposed to new taxes. So is Holshouser. Yet Bowles has voted for every single tax increase to come before the General Assembly since he's been in it. Jim Holshouser knows the budget process. He's served four terms on the House Appropriations Committee and three terms on the Joint House-Senate Appropriations Subcommittee. After 72 years of the political machine and one-party domination, it's time for a change. Holshouser is the man we've all been waiting for to give us that change. Jim graduated from Davidson in 1956. I hope as many of you as possible can meet him and talk to him and consider voting for him in November. It's your vote. Use it to send Holshouser to Raleigh, for yourself and for the state.

Vince Rabil ‘75
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Davidson students have a rare chance this year to work in a meaningful local political campaign. It is quite unusual for a progressive Democrat like State Rep. Jim Beatty to have a good chance for election to Congress from North Carolina, so I am hoping that a number of students, regardless of their permanent residence or past political experience, will join in the campaign to elect Jim Beatty to the U.S. House of Representatives. In 1971, when the legislature ratified the Twenty-Sixth Amendment, more than fifty legislators had joined the movement for the 18-year-old vote, but only 4 of those men could claim a 6-year record of fighting for this extension of the franchise. Jim Beatty was one of these men. Jim has worked for a new system of drug abuse laws. In 1971, he sponsored the bills which provided for (1) more lenient penalties for the possession of marijuana and (2) a drug abuse education program within the Department of Public Instruction. Finally, Jim has, as chairman of the N.C. House Appropriations Education Subcommittee, worked diligently for a higher quality of education for North Carolina’s schoolchildren. He refuses to give in, as does his conservative Republican opponent, to the racist cries for an anti-busing amendment to the Constitution, but rather works for an equitable system of public education for all North Carolinians. Please consider this opportunity to do something for Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, and the country.

Larry Horowitz ‘75
Davidson College