Vol. LXII, No. Four The Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

Seniors, Faculty Participate In Fall Convocation Today

By BRUCE CORSER
Staff Writer

Seniors and faculty will don their academic regalia this morning to participate in Davidson's Opening Convocation in Love Auditorium at
11 a.m. Classes will be suspended after 10 a.m. to enable all students to attend the Convocation ceremony.

His Excellency L.K. Jha, Ambassador to the United States from India, will be the main speaker at the ceremony, addressing
himself to the topic—“India Today.” The fifty-minute ceremony will also include the awarding of Honorary Degrees to Lionel H. Newsom
and the Honorable Chester Bowles. Another honor, the annual Thomas Jefferson Award, will be bestowed upon the most outstanding member
of the faculty last year. The award consists of a $1,000 stipend. Finally, the Alumni Award will be presented to
the Junior with the highest grade point average.

Ralph Peeples, SGA president, and Mike Creasman, president of the Senior Class, will also make a few remarks. After the
formal ceremony, a luncheon for seniors and their parents will be held in Chambers Basement. Newsom will be the featured
speaker there.

Duff Bruce, assistant to the president, said he would like to encourage as many students as possible to come. “Although
the Convocation is to honor the Class of 1973, invitations have been sent out to all the parents of students
at Davidson.” Bruce added that about 160 parents of seniors had made reservations and he expected the number to increase.
“Many of the students are turned off by the formality. However, the Convocation is one of the few times the
entire student body is able to get together,” Bruce said.

This year Davidson is honoring two men: Newsom and Bowles. “Dr. Newsom is one of the most respected black educators
in the country,” Bruce said. “Not only did he make Johnson C. Smith financially sound, but he has also done
an incredible job with the United Negro College Fund.” Newsom is the former president of Barber Scotia College and Johnson
C. Smith University. He is currently president of Central State University in Ohio. Newsom is also a member of the
Davidson College Board of Visitors, a prominent businessman affiliated with the college.

Bowles has been the American Ambassador to India, a member of Congress, and Governor of Connecticut. He has been active
in foreign relations under five Presidents. Bowles is also a prolific writer, having written 11 books about various foreign problems
and topics related to his years as a public servant. Bowles will receive his degree in absentia as he is
unable to attend due to his affliction with Parkinson's disease.

His Excellency L. K. Jha is also one of the distinguished guests of the college during the Convocation. “The topic
of his speech should prove very interesting, giving one the present state of relations with India,” Bruce said. “His appearance
might also expedite the formation of the exchange program between Davidson and India.”

By BOB HOWELL
Asst. Managing Editor

Several faculty members informally introduced this week a proposal which would delete the stipulation in the Trustee Bylaws that any
faculty member given tenure must be an active member of a Christian church. In a letter to the faculty, Associate
Professor of Religion Alexander McKelway expressed the need for “an open and unlimited search for truth” and proposed a resolution
asking the Board of Trustees to remove “a religious test for appointment to the faculty.”

“I want to give the faculty some chance to discuss this question among themselves prior to an actual vote,” explained
McKelway. A special meeting of the faculty will be necessary if the matter is to be brought before the board's
October meeting, assuming sufficient faculty support, he added. “Reactions to the proposal have been generally favorable,” McKelway said, “though there
has been some negative response.”

Giving their signatures and approval to the resolution along with McKelway are Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan,
Associate Professor of Philosophy Earl MacCormac, Clinical Psychologist W. G. Workman, Associate Professor of History Brown Patterson, Assistant Professor of
Psychology Edward Palmer, Associate Professor of Religion David Kaylor, Professors of Religion Daniel Rhodes, Samuel Maloney and Max Polley, Instructor
in Art Larry Ligo, and Dean of Students Will Terry. They intend to submit the resolution to the entire faculty
as soon as a special meeting can be called, McKelway said. If it is adopted, they will request that College
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. transmit the proposal to the Board of Trustees, requesting that copies of it be placed
in the hands of each board member before the fall meeting.

College Slows Student Voting

By TOM BRUCE
Contributing Editor

Following repeated requests from out-of-state students, Mrs. Joyce Fleagle, Assistant to the Comptrollerand official notary, continued to refuse to notarize
student absentee ballot request forms this week. Many states require that students wishing to vote by absentee ballot file a
special form signed by the college registrar verifying that they are college students. The requests are not valid unless stamped
with a notary public's seal. The registrar's office has directed some students to Mrs. Fleagle’s office to have the form
notarized. When Mrs. Fleagle refused to comply, the students had to locate someone else to notarize the forms. Robert J.
Stephenson, director of personnel, is the only other notary public on campus. He used his seal to validate a number
of students' forms. Otherwise, applicants were forced to seek help from Piedmont Bank and Trust in Davidson and at area
law offices.

“We have processed quite a number of the forms,” an official at Piedmont Bank stated. “We are happy to help
the students in this way.” The bank charges 50 cents to stamp the forms in order to defray the fee
for the stamps and to compensate for the time of bank personnel. The fee which Mrs. Fleagle pays to maintain
her standing as a notary public is paid for by Davidson College, according to Mrs. Fleagle. “Even though the stamping
itself might take only a few seconds, the interruptions keep me from getting my work done," Mrs. Fleagle said. “The
college provides the seal for me to do notes and deeds of trust. I certainly don't feel that it’s the
responsibility of the college to offer this service. If it were me and I wanted to vote bad enough, I'd
go out and pay,” Mrs. Fleagle added.

Mrs. Fleagle's actions came on the heels of President Samuel R. Spencer's Sept. 25 state of the college address in
which he urged students to, “make a sincere effort to vote in the November elections, by either going home or
voting by absentee ballot.”

HaviNsontan
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
October 13, 1972
(Staff photo by Goodman)

FEW ARE CHOSEN
Students cast votes (See Story p. 2).

McKelway Presents Faculty With Proposal To Drop Religious Tenure Requirement

“Since this is a college which has a special responsibility to encourage teaching and scholarship within a Christian climate, the
President and other officers of the college should make every effort to see that there are effective proponents of the
Christian faith on the teaching faculty of the college. In order, however, to preserve a healthy and vigorous intellectual life
on the campus, no attempt should be made to restrict temporary or permanent appointments to the faculty to those professing
a particular religious point of view.”

McKelway

“I would think that the restrictions in the bylaws will be changed,” McKelway said. “If the faculty will express itself
strongly it will be a help; I rather suspect this will be the case." In any event, the board will
not be able to take definite action on the question this October, McKelway noted, as a number of separate readings
are required for a proposed resolution. “I would assume that the stipulation cannot be changed for some months, but the
administration may be able to get some initial indications,” he suggested, adding that “The attitude of the Administration will make
a big difference.”

McKelway said his objection was primarily theoretical. “The only way to create an environment responsive to the Christian faith is
to have the faculty, Administration, and Trustees work at it constantly. This may be difficult, but it’s more possible than
the invalid assumption that a legal requirement will create such an environment," he said.

The faculty met with the Trustee Education Committee Wednesday according to Patterson, who is also president of the Davidson chapter
of the American Association of University Professors. Before the meeting, Patterson said, “It's an informal open meeting which we called
to arrive at a fuller understanding of the principles of tenure we're now working with. Inevitably the subject of the
religious requirement will come up, and I personally would like to have a discussion of it.”

The speaker at Friday's Convocation will be his Excellency, Lakshmi Kant Jha, Ambassador of India to the United States. The
topic of Ambassador Jha's speech will be “India Today.” This will be Ambassador Jha’s second visit to the Davidson campus.
He spoke at a Symposium here last year. Ambassador Jha was educated at Banaras Hindu University and Trinity College, Cambridge,
England. He has held several key positions in the Indian government including that of Secretary to the Prime Minister, Mrs.
Indira Gandhi. Ambassador Jha has also served as Secretary of Heavy Industries and Governor of the Reserve Bank of India.
He is the author of one book, “India’s Foreign Aid.”
