Davidson Honors ‘Cop’ Linker After 3 Decades Of Service

By VAL VAN HORN Staff Writer

For 33 years, a quiet, sharp-witted man guarded Davidson College. In the '60s, students feared his discovery of their weekend
"stalled cars" on the soccer field, and more recently, students avoided his parking tickets.

Admired by those who came in contact with him, Edgar N. "Cop" Linker is being honored this Homecoming by a
dinner and dance in appreciation for his services.

Linker retired this July but is fondly remembered. Alumni Calvin Wicker recalls, "He was very dedicated. He always gave good
advice to the students, always talked to them.

"What was unusual about him was that he remembered the professors when they were students here," Wicker continued. "Cop was
a link between the faculty and the students."

Other alumni have remembrances not so reverent. Responses to the "I Remember Cop" contest included one from Lyman Kiser, student
president of 1953.

Kiser wrote of his freshman Homecoming Weekend when Linker caught him and his date parked on the football practice field.

Recalling the incident, Kiser can still picture the "lipstick smeared and scared freshman" when Linker's gruff voice rumbled, "Let's call
it a night."

Another entry, of which the writer prefers to remain anonymous, chuckled about how he and two friends returned from a
weekend spree in Charlotte.

Linker's good humor was a help for his weekend duties. At one time he remarked, "It looks like they have
planted all these bushes around the campus just for the guys that don't have cars."

The sight of Linker cruising the Davidson campus in his pick-up was one the students avoided on weekends.

Linker himself was embarrassed to walk up to parked cars, though he admitted he "got a kick out of catching
the boys he knew real well."

"Freshmen, of course, are the ones you got the most kicks out of," he said. "You had to tell them
we don't allow mixed car parties and sometimes they'd ask, 'Well, where can we park?'"

Cop Linker did more than give friendly advice and good-natured law enforcement. In 1954, Linker copied down the license number
of an unfamiliar car parked on campus.

It was his clue that led to the apprehension of a Decatur, Georgia, citizen who had killed one policeman, wounded
another, and robbed college students of hundreds of dollars. For his action, Linker was honored in a public ceremony.

Linker said that one can't expect 1000 boys not to be doing something out of line once in a while,
but he does believe that in general, student conduct has deteriorated within recent years. He attributes most of this to
the failure of the student government to enforce its rules.

Cop Linker will be honored, in addition to this year's Homecoming, by a collection of recollections of him by the
students. The book is in the process of being compiled by Zack Long of the alumni office.

Now that he is retired, Cop Linker works in his garden and with his bees, and is president of the
Men's Bible class at the Davidson.

The Davidsonian October 27, 1972 Page Three
