LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

MacCormac Ex

To the Editor:

As past president of the Davidson College chapter of the AAUP, I feel compelled to reply to the article on
the tenure system by Bill Giduz and Phil Bishop, because of the number of inaccuracies found therein and the misinformation
that the article presents about the nature of tenure.

In the second paragraph of your article, you state that, “... most institutions acceded to those guidelines years ago with
no trouble arising until recently.” One of the reasons that the AAUP was founded in 1915 was to protect professors
from administrations and Boards of Trustees who were firing them because of their beliefs. A glance at “The Development of
Academic Freedom in the United States” by Hofstadter and Metzger or at “Academic Freedom and Tenure” edited by Louis Joughin
or a review of the “Bulletins of the AAUP” selected on a ten-year basis would reveal that during the period
1915-1972, professors have been fired because of their beliefs and the AAUP has been waging a defense of academic freedom
all during that period.

The article states that “‘adequate cause’ means only that cause cannot be academic in nature.” The 1940 Statement of Principles
on Academic Freedom and Tenure, which is the basic statement on academic freedom accepted by most educational and professional associations
and many colleges and universities, provides that faculty may be fired for incompetence. Surely this is an academic matter. The
1940 Statement reads, “In the hearing of charges for incompetence, the testimony should include that of teachers and other scholars,
either from his own or from other institutions.”

The article states that “during their probationary period, professors are evaluated according to the AAUP standards of research, teaching, and
university service.” The standards of evaluation used by various institutions of higher learning are their own and not those of
the AAUP. At Davidson, there is no explicit statement on the precise method of how faculty are to be evaluated
for tenure, for salary increase, or for promotion.

The article states “as a warning and hint to young professors, the guidelines assert that the junior faculty member must
take special care not to introduce into his teaching controversial matter which has no relation to his subject.” This statement
is incorrect in that the admonition of the AAUP Statement on Tenure does not refer specifically to junior faculty but
to all faculty. The Statement reads in its entirety, “The teacher is entitled to freedom in the classroom in discussing
his subject but he should be careful not to introduce into his teaching controversial matter which has no relation to
his subject.”

There is no question that tenure has been abused both by faculty and by administrations. Junior faculty who have not
had tenure have been coerced and the AAUP is presently recommending a change in its policy toward non-tenured faculty to
protect their academic freedom more than is now done. Administrations that have not taken tenure seriously have allowed men to
go beyond the seven-year period and only then have worried about competence. Careful and fair evaluation of a faculty member’s
teaching contribution, his scholarship, his competence, and his general contribution to student life through guidance and counseling all should be
evaluated when making a decision as to whether to retain this man on a permanent basis. If in the future,
he becomes irresponsible and unwilling to keep up in his field, he should be warned of this, and if he
does not respond to the warning, he should be charged with incompetence, a charge which faculty should be willing to
sustain if proven.

The argument that a man should not be retained because he does not get along well with his colleagues is
irrelevant to the evaluation of his performance as a teacher and a scholar. Undoubtedly, there will occur conflicts among men
who are pursuing the truth, as there is no one truth but a variety of ways of apprehending ideas, systems,
and principles that men call ‘truth.’ When the article suggests that tenure promotes incompetence, it should also consider the alternative
of a system without tenure where men could be dismissed on the mere whim of a department chairman, or a
dean, or a vice president, or a president, who happens not to like the man or believes that the man
voted the wrong way in a recent election, or espoused principles that are unpopular in this particular state. There are
many who, if it were not for tenure, would have been dismissed long ago because of political, religious, and social
beliefs.

A professor has two primary purposes, the pursuit of truth and the education of youth, and in carrying out these
tasks he must be free to express his intellectual views wherever they lead him. This does not give him license
to speak on topics on which he is not competent outside his area of specialty (except as an ordinary citizen
with opinions and attitudes). I welcome a series of articles on tenure but I deplore those that are factually inaccurate
in their representation of the views of the AAUP. The documents are available for all to see and a responsible
discussion of tenure should take place on the basis of these facts and not on misinformation. Tenure should be evaluated
both in terms of its strengths and its weaknesses. And if the alternative of a system without tenure is worse
than a system with tenure, then we should all work to improve the present system that we now have which
includes tenure such that incompetence and stagnation are not protected and rewarded.

I write this letter as an individual and make no pretense of speaking either for the local chapter of the
AAUP or the national organization.

Earl R. MacCormac
Davidson College

Attacks Security System

To the Editor:

Firstly, I’d like to protest the inconsistent mannerisms of Davidson’s “nonsecurity” policemen. Recently I was parked in the area just
above the power plant building and behind Duke dorm. My back tires were over those ridiculously patterned yellow lines there
and my car was very much abreast of a sign which reads STUDENT PARKING. My car was there for approximately
twelve hours off and on one day. The next day, Officer Linker returned with his red hot ticket book.and socked
it to the ol' green Vega. I was hacked. I sought out the old guy and presented him with my
case (see above). He then presented me with his case and refused to eradicate the ticket from his "records." He
said that my story was a "gross misrepresentation" of the situation and that if he had not been right he
would not have written the ticket. His explanation of the previous day's stay of the car was that it was
just overlooked. And furthermore, when I said I was going to take the matter to the administration and asked him
who was in charge of such matters, he admitted that he didn’t really know himself. I was forced to laugh
one time during our conversation when he said something to the effect of how did I think he had been
around so many years if he didn’t know when a car was or was not illegally parked. But let me
get back to the matter of my car being overlooked for a day. OVERLOOKED? Sure it was overlooked. Just like
dozens of robberies have gone overlooked this year, the most recent and serious being the stealing of a full set
of tires from a student’s car while it was parked below the gym. I for one have noticed no crackdown
by any phase of law enforcement in this area. And I am quick to guess that the policemen who work
the night shift here on campus do not miss too many of their favorite television programs nor do they lose
an enormous amount of sleep. Something needs to be done. End of protest number one.

Protest number two is against the college’s allocation of spending as it relates to the parking problem on campus. Davidson,
although it is a small campus, should still have ample parking space for students in the immediate residence or academic
area. The college, of course, will be spending a tremendous amount of money on a new library and hopefully a
new and better student union. These things are practically necessities. But I think the college could perhaps take half of
what it is spending on landscaping and planting trees and construct a parking lot. Where? I would have to say
that the most logical and convenient place would be in the area immediately behind Richardson dorm. A hundred to two
hundred car parking lot would easily fit there, and it would help solve the ever-increasing problem of where to put
all the cars.

Vic Fleming ‘73 Davidson College

---

Bowles Backed in Saturday Primary; Rabil Supports Honor Code, Not Apathy

To The Editor:

The following article appeared in The Daily Tar Heel’s April 11 issue. It outlines the position Skipper Bowles has taken
in recent years. If you will be voting in the May 6 Democratic primary in North Carolina, you owe it
to yourself to read this statement.

Bo Phillips ‘74 Davidson College

Though it may cost him votes in the May primary, Bowles has voted for liberalized abortion and against capital punishment.
Right now in the legislature, he is the principal sponsor of the strong Environmental Bill of Rights, an amendment to
the state constitution which will finally provide a constitutional mandate for restrictions preventing industry from polluting this state. Bowles’ primary
goal as governor of North Carolina will be to increase the per capita income of all of its people, especially
through expanded vocational education. Bowles is certain that there needs to be a drastic overhaul in our insurance laws. He
is proposing a limited no-fault insurance plan which will relieve the over-crowded court dockets. He also advocates revising the insurance
laws which now permit massive discrimination against both the very young and the elderly. Bowles feels it is wrong for
the under-25-year-old male with a perfect driving record to be charged a higher rate than his 35-year-old neighbor who has
been twice convicted of drunken driving, simply because of age. Another way in which Bowles has stood up for young
people is his active promotion of the 18-year-old vote. In addition, he fought hard in the General Assembly to get
the privilege of absentee ballots for the primary election on May 6. Remember his stances on abortion, the environment, occupational
and vocational education, and lowering the voting age, when you vote in the May 6 primary: with your help, he
can be one of the most effective governors this state has ever had.

To the Editor:

This letter is directed to the high status one achieves at Davidson by being apathetic, and the consequences of this
upon the Honor Code. When I speak of apathy, do not think I'm speaking of apathy in an absolute way.
I am speaking of apathy in a very particular way—apathy towards the common interests and well-being of the entire college
community. This area of common community interest is not like an athletic team, campus organization, or fraternity/eating club. It has
no special executive committee or spokesman to act as a watchdog for it. The manner in which we fulfill our
obligations to this area of common interest determines Davidson’s reputation, livability, and academic life. The Honor Code is an inherent
part of this area of common community interest. Every student at Davidson should have a deep concern for the Honor
Code, because it is up to every student to make it work. Breakdown of the Code in any area could
place the entire Code in jeopardy. One area in particular in which the Code is not working is the library.
Every day, people remove (steal) books (reference books, government documents, etc.) from it with little concern that this is an
Honor Code violation. If the Code is not observed in matters as serious as this, then what is going to
prevent the breakdown of the Code in other areas? The only answer is a renewal of student awareness and concern
for the Code. This is exactly what I’m calling for. Unless we experience this renewal of concern for this particular
area of common community interest, then all the future holds in store for us is the eventual breakdown and loss
of the entire Honor Code. Unless we as students meet these and other obligations, we have no right to complain
when things begin falling apart, and we will have no one to blame but ourselves.

Vince Rabil ‘75 Davidson College
