HOWARD RAMAGLI  
The Davidsonian  
March 17, 1972  
Page Five  

Career Service Depends On Student Overload  

After waiting in the vicinity of four years, Davidson has finally established the Career/Service program. Having the most potential for providing an alternative to classroom learning, the Career/Service program could become one of Davidson's most exciting learning opportunities. These opportunities are by no means rigid. In fact, Randall Kincaid, the program’s director, hopes that most students will take the initiative to develop their own opportunities. There is also the possibility of a sharing of opportunity contacts between the North Carolina Fellows program and the Career/Service program. Charlotte Area College Consortium provides additional possibilities for contacts and coordination of activities to expand the working base of the program.

The problem comes to mind immediately of how many students will actually take advantage of this program. Students appear to be interested in getting away from campus for part of their college years. But it seems that the success of this program will depend on how much the student is willing to overload his schedule or go to summer school to make up credits lost in his participation in this program. The faculty, the Educational Policy Committee (EPC), and Kincaid have all agreed that specific credit for Career/Service participation is not possible. According to Kincaid, students can pick up credit for these experiences through extended studies, independent studies, and the various “wildcard” courses, which each department has.

There is an apparent paradox to this question of credit which needs to be examined more closely. According to the article published in THE DAVIDSONIAN last week (“Career/Service Inaugurated”), “Positions will be sought for their educational value.” This statement is a bit unclear when one looks for “positions of educational value,” but does not recognize these experiences as valid educational experiences in and of themselves. Learning from experience is much more valuable for most people than any amount of classroom learning. Yet Davidson cannot seem to tear herself away from a tradition of learning that is quite stale and for the most part very distasteful.

For any experience to be valid as a learning experience, there is a need for motivation on the part of the students. Yet education at Davidson seems to make learning a lifeless process of sheer nonsensical motions. A student is bound to learn and retain more of what he has obtained by spending those same 10 weeks in three vacuumatic courses. In fact, a supportive reading program consisting of material from three courses in an area would be much more meaningful during a field experience.

Perhaps going to the absurd length of analyzing this field experience in terms of hours spent working would enlighten us. The student will spend 40 hours a week in the field activity. That is an extremely conservative estimate. Then he spends two hours a night reading. For a five-day week, his total education time is 50 hours, which is five more hours than is projected for education on this campus under the present term system. Now let’s suppose that the student arranges a field experience to include an academic term and a summer. He has now done 100 hours or more of educational time, and if he is lucky, he may get two or three course credits for it.

The point is that if Career/Service positions do have “educational value,” then the student should be able to receive credit, full credit, for participation in the program. This assumes that the student will have a supportive reading program to accompany his field experience. The Career/Service program can be the most exciting educational experience to appear at Davidson. Students should give the program serious consideration if they want an alternative to classroom learning. Students must also help those people who cannot get out of the classroom frame-of-mind to do so if the Career/Service program is to be recognized as a learning experience of “educational value.”

ROTC Divides Roommates; War For Peace Continues  

To the Editor:  
I recently heard some really encouraging news: Davidson is second in the nation! But what we are second in is discouraging. We have the second largest percentage of students enrolled in ROTC in the entire United States. This outstanding fact about our school was well publicized in several newspapers as well as our own ‘Davidson Update’. What a fine reputation we are developing! Senator B. Everett Jordan even took time out to praise Davidson on this “latest of many distinctions which make Davidson College stand in so many ways near the very top among institutions of higher learning in the nation.” Exactly how this contributes to “higher learning,” I'm not sure. I was looking through our catalogue the other day and this is what I found in the statement of purpose: “Davidson's primary purpose is to develop...

‘Clockwork Orange’ Swirls  

A PREVIEW By BOB WRIGHT  

At 43, Stanley Kubrick has worked his way into the top echelon of filmmaking’s intelligentsia. His enormous creativity, his technical brilliance, his exquisite control of his work have made him into not only the best-established director of the 70s but also the new superstar of the film cult. There’s a lot of irony in the fact that this brilliant dropout, chess player from the Bronx, has become an idol for the ephemeral “youth culture.” But it’s surprising in a good way, for Stanley Kubrick deserves all the praise he has been getting lately; the man is above all a creative genius and today is a hard man to find.

His newest film, “A Clockwork Orange,” is a swirling menage of images, both visual and aural. The hero, Alex (Malcolm McDowell), and his droogs, Pete, Georgie, and Dim, open the film at the Korova milkbar, drinking milk-plus to sharpen themselves up for a little of the old ultraviolence and perhaps some quick in-out, in-out. Alex basically gets high on two things—violence and Ludwig (van Beethoven, that is). From the very beginning, we like Alex. He is in fact the only likable character in the film. His wit is engaging, his intelligence high, his charm delightful. He is also brutal, decadent, violent, sarcastic, cunning, cruel, and inhuman. He is a paradox (perhaps the paradox) of modern man. He is eventually caught by the police after one particularly brutal escapade and “rehabilitated” by the new “Ludovico technique.” In the process, he loses the ability to act independently. Violence, sex, and music, the three most...assertive, personal things he does, are denied him through this new treatment, a behaviorist’s nightmare. He becomes a walking denial of humanity, a clockwork orange. Grim though it may be, we are exhilarated at Alex’s triumph over the machinist forces of his society. We sympathize and identify with him, for in the end Alex is all of us as we might find ourselves in our most dark and secret thoughts. Kubrick is showing us something darkly important about ourselves. It’s not pleasant to admit it, but we all are ready for a little of the old ultraviolence and perhaps some quick in-out, in-out, if we get down to basics. I am a firm believer in the maxim that all movies should not be made in color, but “A Clockwork Orange” is definitely a color film. The visual work of the film is absolutely remarkable. Kubrick can take such over-used and trendy techniques as slow and fast motion and make them work in new and exciting ways. Every filmmaker can take lessons from Kubrick as far as camera technique goes. Kubrick is a master of the basics of filmmaking and these exquisite camera angles and movements are what make a Kubrick film so special, and they make “A Clockwork Orange” a fun house for your eyes as well as for your ears. No one uses music in film more creatively than Stanley Kubrick, and “A Clockwork Orange” is more proof of this maxim. He scores a speeded-up seduction scene with Alex and two un-loving young ladies with a frenetic “William Tell Overture”; Alex’s visions of violence and brutality spring full-grown from the demonic strains of Beethoven’s ninth. Alex and his droogs battle Billyboy to the lifting violence of Rossini’s Thieving Magpie. The soundtrack record is as much of a prize as the film. In short, “A Clockwork Orange” is a brilliant tour de force of superb filmmaking. See it at all costs. Its influence will be important and widespread and, perversely enough, you'll have a hell of a good time, O my droogs.

Men of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.” It utterly escapes me how ROTC aids in the development of men of humane instincts and of Christian character. It seems to me that this department is even very detrimental to this purpose. Training men in efficient methods of killing does not seem very humane and even less Christian. How can a man develop humane instincts when he is constantly being trained to develop inhumane ones? I do not propose that Davidson do away with the ROTC department. I believe each student here should have the freedom to enter whatever field of study he should choose. However, I do wish the students themselves would take a good look at what they are getting into. We should be dedicating ourselves to the attainment of peace in today’s war-torn world. And contrary to what many say, war is not peace and cannot bring about peace but only pain and suffering. I should hope that if the draft is done away with the ROTC department here would fade out of existence due to lack of student interest. I hope the students of this college can truly develop humane and Christian instincts and will give up war. War is hell and ROTC is part of war. PEACE NOW!

Erwin C. Barron, '75
Davidson College

To the Editor:

When I received my recent issue of the “Davidson Update” I was pleased to read that Davidson was second in the nation. That is, among all other colleges and universities in the U.S., Davidson College had the second highest percentage of male students enrolled in voluntary Army ROTC in 1971. What is significant is that Davidson is a small college. The voluntary student participation must be relatively high to merit second in the nation in Army ROTC enrollment. ROTC is only one facet of the college education. It has been pointed out that Davidson College seeks to develop men “of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.” ROTC is a system of officer training designed to produce the leadership necessary for the defense of the United States; this system is conducted in a civilian atmosphere in which students are also trained for the advanced specializations of civilian life. It is a very common misconception that ROTC trains men in “efficient methods of killing.” Any man can kill, but those who elect to enroll in ROTC do not do so to sharpen their “skill.” They enroll, for the most part, out of a desire to serve the nation in time of need. Kill they will and kill they must during a war to preserve and protect their sacred ideals and freedom. No one who enrolls in ROTC who believes in the senseless taking of life will change that belief; he cannot be trained to develop inhumane instincts which are foreign to his human nature. One further point needs to be looked at. ROTC has supplied the leadership of the Regular Army in the past and will continue to do so with the All-Volunteer Army. ROTC students, unlike those in the military academies, are not trained to be professional soldiers. They are trained to be “civilian” soldiers, whose civilian ideas will carry over into their military experience. This reflects the unique nature of the American military system. No one wants war. But there is a certain level at which tolerance to attacks on the national honor and integrity will cease. Until war is abolished and/or abandoned, adequate defensive measures must be employed for the security of the nation. ROTC is a source of (officer) leadership for the armed forces in military crises—these officers do not rely on war for employment; they are also trained for civilian jobs. As long as there are students who are interested in the security of their country there will be a demand for ROTC. Consider a parallel in modern society. American industry has produced many benefits for society: automobiles and airplanes to provide transportation between distant places in a short space of time, electrical power to cook by and to run machines by, etc. But pollution unfortunately also results, the destruction of our natural resources and beauty. Pollution is hell and convenience is part of pollution. Really?!

Jerry Huller, '75
Davidson College