Governance: Problem Of Authority
By RICH WILSON
Editor-in-Chief

EDITOR’S NOTE: This is the first in a series of articles entitled “Campus Governance: Crisis of Authority.”

The term “campus governance” has gained increased use in educational journals and college newspapers during the past decade as many boards of trustees tangle with the crisis of authority existent on college and university campuses. Campus governance essentially means the exercise of authority in a college or university. The issue of campus governance involves two basic questions: Who makes the decisions, and what is the process by which these decisions are reached?

While the trustees are the ultimate source of authority, the faculty has traditionally maintained supremacy in most academic decisions, with the administration playing a secondary role. But in the decade of the '60s, American colleges and universities experienced a period of unparalleled growth and change. These events brought about a change in the traditional purpose of colleges in general. Society placed increased demands on these institutions to provide services more than the traditional discovery and transmission of knowledge. Such a trend resulted in a shakeup of ideas on the campus and a dramatic change from the past.

As more students enrolled and finances became more important, the administration grew increasingly larger and the president was held increasingly accountable for everything that happened on campus. The faculty managed to retain their power but found their autonomy challenged by a budget-conscious administration. Whereas previously the administration and the faculty worked as a team to achieve the goals of the college, the two groups evolved different viewpoints. Administrators questioned the practice of tenure, while younger faculty members introduced innovations in the learning process and new concepts of academic excellence.

The faculty was further challenged by students who felt that they should have a voice in the decision-making process. The result of these trends was competitive factionalism. Administration, faculty, and students squared off against the others. While each of the groups harbored their own traditions, the faculty especially resisted any change which might alter its identity or lose power. Factionalism persisted and dissension increased. While some concessions were made, colleges tended to lubricate outworn procedures. The struggle resulted in riots and takeovers. Buildings were destroyed and presidents held hostage.

When the smoke cleared, trustees viewed the troubled situation and many initiated inquiries into new forms of governing the campus. While Davidson escaped the riots, it did not escape the factionalism with each of the constituencies bitterly sniping at the others. Recognizing the problems, the board of trustees in the spring of 1970 established a trustee governance committee which would study new modes of governance and bring recommendations to the board. The committee, consisting of one trustee, one student, one faculty member, one administrator, and chairman Walter L. Lingle, submitted their first set of recommendations on student conduct to the board last spring. Once the board had adopted their recommendations, they enlarged the committee to three members from each of the constituencies and the board directed the committee to begin deliberations on the total picture of campus governance.

To date, the committee has discussed the problem of governance at Davidson and has suggested areas in the decision-making process where the various constituencies should exercise primary leadership. In the articles of this series, THE DAVIDSONIAN hopes to investigate and discuss the problems in Davidson's current governance system as well as possible alternatives.

Vol. LXI, No. Twenty
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
The Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
MARCH 17, 1972

College Faces Possible Deficit For Year; Bevan, Cornell Declare Fiscal Cutbacks
By ALEC HOON
Managing Editor

Davidson College might face a deficit of as much as $100,000 during the current fiscal year, according to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. This possibility was announced in a memo issued from the President’s office to all faculty and staff on Monday. Spencer instructed his two Vice Presidents, John M. Bevan and C. David Cornell, to “take whatever steps are necessary to keep us operating in the black.” Cornell has ordered cutbacks on supplies, as well as on long-distance phone calls and all non-essential travel.

Senate Opposes Calendar
By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

In this week’s meeting of the SGA Senate, the disapproval of the academic calendar proposed for the 1972-1973 school year by the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) occupied the center of attention. The calendar issue was brought up when Freshman Senator Vince Rabil introduced a resolution which would provide for the beginning ofClasses of the winter term of 1973 will begin on Wednesday, Jan. 3, rather than on Tuesday, Jan. 2. Rabil felt this was necessary primarily for the safety of students who otherwise would be forced to travel back to school on the dangerous New Year’s weekend. (Staff photo by Barnes)

ORGANIST COMPOSER
Davidson College organist Wilmer H. Welsh will present the premiere of his New York “Concerto for Organ and Orchestra” at a recital in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church tonight.

Upon the passing of Rabil’s resolution, SGA President Ralph Peeples expressed his desire to see the Senate take a definite stand on the calendar, either pro or con, and if necessary, to qualify that standing. The Senate members immediately voted disapproval of the calendar and went on to elaborate on the specific areas of difficulty. The specific points of contention receiving censure included: 1) the late start, 2) the lengthy Christmas vacation, and 3) the late recess in the summer. The Senate did express approval of the Freshman Conference Recess in the fall of next year and went on to make the following recommendations for an acceptable calendar: 1) a maximum of 17 days for Christmas vacation; 2) a spring break not coinciding with the conclusion of the basketball season; 3) a longer Thanksgiving recess, and 4) a split winter term.

Time was also given in this week's meeting to pass a motion introduced by Freshman Senator Bob Corlew which would charge the Senate to see to it that next year, in the absence of a union, an adequate (See SENATE, Page 10)

He has also put a freeze on the hiring of new personnel and hinted that some non-academic people might be laid off under the new budget. “We’re not kidding. We have a tough situation here. I think that too many people have been complacent too long about our financial situation. I am looking at every possible way we can decrease our spending in order to ensure that we are not spending money needlessly,” Connell said. Bevan indicated that he was requesting that all department heads and administrators limit their budgets as much as possible. “I have asked them to be as cautious as possible so as to avoid a deficit that would be disconcerting,” Bevan said.

Reaction among faculty to the possibility of a deficit has been mixed. Most have shown a ‘wait and see’ attitude. SGA President Ralph Peeples expressed some concern over the possible effects that the deficit would have on student-oriented programs. “The news of an impending deficit is of concern to us all. It is especially alarming to students in light of past experience, which has shown that when such a crisis exists, student-oriented programs are usually among the first to be cut,” Peeples said.

The major effort presently being made to reduce all deficit has been to try to increase the Annual Fund, which is solicited through alumni contributions. The goal for this year’s fund (which ends on June 30) was set at $310,000. As of now, only $135,000 has been collected. To stimulate donations, the trustees of the college have offered a $35,000 challenge to the alumni. Under the terms of the challenge, for each dollar that a new donor gives, the trustees will add two dollars to the fund. The trustees will match dollar for dollar every donation that an alumnus, who has given in past years but not this year, makes. In addition, the trustees will match an increase in an alumnus's giving this year over last.

Director of the Alumni Fund Howard Arbuckle was excited with the new prospects the trustee challenge gives to hopes for reaching the Fund goal of $310,000. “The trustee challenge is unprecedented here at Davidson. It will give us new leverage in our fund-raising efforts,” Arbuckle noted. He explained that both the re- (See COLLEGE, page 2)

Duncan To Resign From YMCA Post
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Staff Writer

YMCA President Larry Duncan will soon resign his office due to health reasons. He has an ulcer. Former President Adrian Long will immediately reassume the presidency for the spring term. Duncan hopes that he will be able to return to that position next fall; however, until then he will not totally refrain from participation. His role, though, will be confined mainly to the Religious Policy Council. Long will assume all administrative responsibilities. Duncan indicated that Paul Yarbrough, YMCA Vice President, will remain in his present capacity of organizing next year’s fund drive. However, if Duncan is not able to return to the presidency next fall, Yarbrough will replace the graduating Long as president.