The Vol. LXII, No. Six Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
October 27, 1972

Blacks Get Sympathy, Few Pledges Of Action
By MARK DEATON
Staff Writer

The Black Student Coalition received a sympathetic response from faculty and administration this week but few promises of action on their 10 grievances concerning the condition of blacks at Davidson. While most agreed that Davidson had not been doing as much as it could in recruiting black students, several questioned the feasibility of the blacks’ demands for 150 blacks by next year.

“I think recruiting 150 black students in two years would be an unrealistic goal considering our past experience and the past experience of other colleges similar to Davidson,” said College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

Despite the criticisms of blacks, Spencer said that the college has made some progress in improving black conditions here, “but certainly not spectacular progress,” he said. “We need more blacks in our faculty, in our professional staff and in our student body," admitted Spencer. “We also need more recognition in education of the contributions of blacks.”

With regard to the blacks’ demand for more black faculty, Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan noted the fierce competition for competent black faculty across the country. Bevan cited such factors as Davidson's southeastern location, rural setting, and all-white professional community as deterrents to hiring black professors. “I refuse to throw salary limits way out of line to attract any professor,” Bevan said. “I won't go out and buy people.”

Although the blacks demanded a Black Studies Program, several members of the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) which met with the blacks questioned the need for such a program. “Whether or not we have the resources or interest for such a program is debatable,” said Professor of Psychology John Kelton. “I don't have any objections to an African Studies Program, but I believe that Black Studies should be incorporated in history, government, psychology, sociology, drama, music, and political science within our present course structure rather than as a separate program,” Kelton said.

Political Science Professor and FEC member J. Harris Proctor admitted, “I'm really not enthusiastic about an African Studies Program at this time. We already have under way a South Asia Program, and I don't think we should jeopardize the success of that. I think the value of such a ‘Black Studies Program’ could be achieved without a separate department, a separate major, a separate formal program,” Proctor said.

Dean of Students Will Terry, in reference to black demands for a better social life, said that the recruitment of black coeds was essential in finding a solution to this problem. Concerning black demand for a more complete collection of books relating to blacks,

Offers Alternate
By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

After a meeting between students and ARA Food Service representatives on Wednesday, Oct. 12, an alternate board plan, a twenty-meal-per-week program, has been offered and is now being used by a number of students. The decision for the inauguration of the new plan came after considerable criticism of the prices of food at Davidson. However, the num-

Where It’s At
Friday, October 27
2 p.m. J.V. Football vs. Furman Richardson Field
3 p.m. Varsity Soccer vs. Belmont Abbey Soccer Field
5 p.m. Hospitality Hour for Ed “Cop” Linker Morrison Room
6 p.m. Testimonial Dinner for Ed Linker Chambers Dining Hall
6:45 p.m. Communion Celebration Martin Room
8 p.m. Concert: Charlie Byrd Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Sock Hop: Sugar Creek Johnston Gym
10:30 and 12:30 a.m. Movie: “Diary of a Mad Housewife” Morrison Room
2 a.m. Breakfast Patterson Court
2 a.m. Free Flicks (Chaplin, Fields, etc.) PIKA House

Saturday, October 28
10:15 a.m. Dedication of Patterson Court Dining Facilities
11 a.m. Wildcat Club Meeting Morrison Room
12 p.m. Homecoming Luncheon Chambers Lawn
2 p.m. Varsity Football vs. Bucknell Richardson Field
4:30 p.m. Post Game Reception President's House
4:40 and 10:30 p.m. Movie: “Diary of a Mad Housewife” Perkins Auditorium
8 p.m. Concert: Boz Scaggs Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Union Rathskeller: Free Coffee and Donuts Union Rathskeller
Midnight Free Flicks (Chaplin, Fields, etc.) Rathskeller
2 a.m. YMCA Religious Service Union

Sunday, October 29
2 p.m. Varsity Rugby vs. South Carolina DavidsonBevan said that a survey of such books has been completed and that Proctor was currently making a list of books which Davidson should purchase. Bevan also said he is now exploring the possibility of (See BLACKS, Page 12) ber of enlistees for the new plan so far has only been a fraction of the number of students who expressed dissatisfaction a few weeks ago. Out of 486 students eating at the Slater houses, only 45 or about 9 percent have selected the 20 meal plan, whereas, more than 75 percent expressed dissatisfaction with ARA in a recent student survey concerning the food service. According to Food Service Director Ron Scott, the reason for this meager turnout is that most students feel that the limitations of the 20 meal plan outweigh its advantages. “These limitations would cause the student to lose both variety and flexibility and overall, we feel that we're pleasing the majority of the students; this is why so many stayed with the Dining Club plan," Scott said. The limitations of the 20 meal plan that Scott spoke of are the loss of unclaimed meals, specified eating hours, a fixed allowance per meal (except at Rusk House), and the inability to feed others (e.g., dates) on one’s meal ticket. Scott added that those students who stayed with the Dining Club plan have apparently begun to eat less at Slater than at the beginning of the term, subsidizing their meals more out of their own pockets on a day-to-day basis. “As the year goes on, the students’ eating habits will fit the Dining Club plan more readily, as they take more and more meals off campus. Roth, Hatties, and Deals do their best business at the end of each academic year,” Scott said. When asked about the participation so far of those in the 20 meal plan, Scott said that it was nearly 96 percent and that most of those involved were upperclassmen. Under the new plan, the student is able to take all of his meals at Rusk with the exception of the Saturday evening meal which is not included in the plan. Scott also pointed out that the two present meal plans represent two extremes in dining alternatives and that next year a third, ‘middle of the road,’ plan will be introduced which would consist of the meal tickets, and adjusted prices depending on the number of meals claimed per week. When asked his opinion about the present changes in the board plan, Vice President for Finance and Development, C. David Cornell expressed his approval of both the new situation and the way in which the original problem was handled. “The basic problem was one of communication. We didn't explain the Dining Club plan thoroughly enough, even though we felt that it is a good and workable one. The fault for the misunderstanding should be shared jointly by ARA and the college,” Cornell said.

Davidson Institutes Transfer Changes
By LARRY MIMMS
Staff Writer

Davidson College is more accessible to women transfer students after abandoning a policy not to accept transfers from other schools in the Eight College Exchange program. To help redefine Davidson's position in the Consortium, Director of the Eight College Exchange Program, Dr. Jay J. Ostwalt attended a meeting with other college representatives at Randolph-Macon College last week. The group decided that those freshman or sophomore students at any of the other seven colleges may transfer to Davidson, but they must meet Davidson admission requirements just as a transfer from any other college, said Ostwalt. Davidson had agreed last spring not to accept any transfers from the seven other colleges. “A woman wishing to come to Davidson must specify whether she wishes to become an exchange student under the eight college admission program or whether she wishes to transfer from her college to Davidson on a permanent basis and apply through regular admissions channels; however, she cannot choose both,” stated Dr. Ostwalt. He added, “This policy in no way limits transfer decisions by non-exchange students from those colleges.” Although the women's colleges were dissatisfied by low male participation, representatives agreed that the Eight College Exchange offered too many beneficial points to be discontinued, Ostwalt said. The program offers the advantage of flexibility in academic plans and provides a diverse campus environment, he noted. Only thirteen Davidson students will participate in the program this year while 23 female exchange students will attend Davidson. “Ultimately — the (See DAVIDSON, future on Page 12)