FIRST IMPRESSIONS

Katie Early stares in disbelief at a Davidson student.

Bad Timing, Planning Bring Only 57 Coeds To Campus

By DOUG BROWN
Managing Editor

Coeducation has finally come to Davidson with the introduction of 57 women to the campus, but only 29 of these
coeds are degree candidates. The other women come to Davidson through the Eight College Exchange Program, and they will attend
Davidson only for one year. The number of women on campus this fall is far less than the 100 coeds
called for in the coeducation plan adopted by the Board of Trustees last May, and dissatisfaction has been voiced at
this development.

Starting this summer with letters and discussions with the administration, SGA President Ralph A. Peeples expressed his dissatisfaction with the
slow way in which Davidson went coeducational. He says one of the main reasons so few women are at Davidson
as transfer students is because of a "no raid" agreement made with the women’s colleges in the Eight College Exchange
Program. This agreement made in May with Mary Baldwin, Randolph-Macon Woman's, Sweet Briar, and Hollins stipulated that Davidson would not
accept as transfer students any women attending these colleges. According to the regulations of the Eight College Exchange Program, Davidson
could not have accepted those women who had signed up to come.

New Faces Join Faculty, Davidson Administration

By ALAN FORD
Staff Writer

Not all of the new faces at Davidson College belong to the Class of '76. Quite a few are owned
by faculty and administrative personnel.

One of the new faces is Miss Lois Kemp, the head of the Spanish department. She is the first woman
to be named as head of a department at Davidson. She has attended Franklin and Marshall College, Ohio Wesleyan, DePauw,
and the University of Louvain in France. Miss Kemp served for three years in Spain as an adviser for the
American Embassy.

Paul F. Liston is an assistant professor of political science. He is an expert in U.S.-Chinese relations.

William Rodger Nutt is back this year as an assistant professor of physical chemistry. Last year Nutt filled a temporary
position in the chemistry department.

I. Job Thomas from India will be a visiting professor of art for the first half of this school year.
He has taught at two Indian universities and has served as the curator of the National Art Gallery in Madras.
At present, he is completing a major work on the art history of India. Thomas will spend the second half
of the year teaching at Guilford College.

Mrs. Cynthia Grant will be a part-time instructor of biology this year. She holds a doctorate in biochemistry and is
planning to teach a seminar in endocrinology as well as biochemistry.

Mrs. Christine Ligo will be a part-time instructor in music this year. She plans to teach Music 21.

Felix Carroll has joined the Davidson faculty as an instructor of chemistry. He recently completed doctoral studies at the California
Institute of Technology.

Mrs. Marjorie McCutchen will be in the library this year in place of Leland Park. Park is at Florida State
University where he is doing research in library science.

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors: DOUG BROWN, ALEC HOON
Sports Editor: JOE EARLE
News Editor: TOM AINSWORTH
Photography Editor: BILL BARNES
Assistant Managing Editors: BOB HOWELL, BRUCE MALOY, THOM NICOLL, MIKE TANNER
Assistant Features Editor: JOHN CASSELS
Copy Editor: BILL ELLETT
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Associate Editors: ALAN BARAGONA, ROBERT TOUCHTON, GRAY WILSON
Contributing Editors: TOM BRUCE, TODD EADES
Photographers: DAVE DOTY, TODD EADES, JOE RODRIGUEZ, BOB STRAND
Circulation: RICKY BELL, ROBERT GATES
Assistant Business Managers: CLIFF KIRK, RICHARD ROMEYN, RICH SMITH, PHIL STIKES

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.

Miss Mariam Nolen, a new face in the admissions office, is an assistant director of admissions. She is the first
woman to hold this post at Davidson.

The new head of the intramural sports program here at Davidson will be Raymond H. "Chip" Stone Jr. He recently
received his doctorate in physical education from UNC-Chapel Hill. While an undergraduate at UNC, Stone earned varsity letters in football,
baseball, and soccer. Stone will not be directly involved in coaching any varsity sport.to Davidson as exchange students for one
year, but the regulations said nothing about women attending these colleges who were not on the exchange program. Davidson on
its own initiative established this "gentleman’s agreement." Peeples said the four women's colleges in Virginia would have been the best
source of transfer students for this fall because they attract the types of students who would be attracted to Davidson.
He claimed, "This explains why we have 55 and not 75 women this year. The eight college exchange has really
screwed up coeducation." In a letter to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., he has called for Davidson's immediate withdrawal
from the Eight College Exchange Program. "I am disappointed we didn't reach our 100 women projection," said Associate Professor of
History W. Brown Patterson, who headed Davidson's coeducation committee. "However, it could have been fewer. I hope the 57 women
are good students," he added. Referring to the "no raid" agreement, Patterson said, "I was surprised by the decision. I
thought the four women's colleges in Virginia would have been the most fruitful recruiting ground. I suppose these colleges were
alarmed at the prospect of losing students. Perhaps we were trying to be sensitive to their enrollment situation." On the
other hand, Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White said the primary reason Davidson attracted so few women was because the
Trustees did not agree to coeducation until May, a time by which most students had made their plans for the
coming academic year. White said the 28 transfer women, in addition to the one freshman woman who is the niece
of the new head of the Spanish department, are from almost the same geographical areas as this year's freshman class,
which means all but six are from the South. The transfers are from 20 colleges, some being from such unlikely
places as Wooster, Sarah Lawrence, Duke, Emory, and Antioch, but others were from such expected places as Queens, UNC at
Charlotte, and the University of Georgia. This year the largest number of exchange coeds from an institution is the 15
from Mary Baldwin. In addition, there are Randolph-Macon Woman's, two from Sweet Briar, four from Hollins, three from Queens, one
from Stratford, and one from Stephens. Not many women transfer students applied early, and con- (See COEDS, p. 8)

Twins Illustrate Davidson Way
By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

Strangely enough, or perhaps unstrangely enough, Davidson people seem to have the most unbelievably intricate family and friendship connections with
everyone else in the community. This pattern, which is nearly a tradition within greater Davidson, has shown itself again with
the arrival of Loyce Chany, who is now the secretary of the college president. This in itself is hardly unusual,
but true to Davidson form, Loyce is also the twin sister of Joyce Flegal, currently the Assistant to the Comptroller.
Both Loyce and Joyce, or maybe Joyce and Loyce, first arrived in Davidson in 1950 after graduating from the King
Business School in Charlotte. At that time Joyce assumed a position in the business office and Loyce became the secretary
of the assistant to the president, Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Naturally, both sisters married Davidson graduates and from that point,
split paths. Loyce Sherrill married Preston Chany, a career army officer, and left Davidson in 1953 for Fort Jackson. During
a two-year stay at the fort, Loyce served as the secretary of the president of the Commercial Bank and Trust
Company of Columbia, South Carolina, Samuel R. Spencer Sr. From Fort Jackson, Loyce moved with her husband to various bases
in Europe, spending one year in Berlin where she served as an Air Force Intelligence secretary. Back in Washington in
1960, Loyce served as a legal secretary in the Pentagon until Sept. 1, 1972, and at one point worked under
General Earl Cole, who has recently been indicted and demoted on graft charges involving American munitions in Viet Nam. Joyce
Sherrill married Fred Flegal, a grandson of former Davidson Spanish Professor Fred Flegal, and left with her husband, a public
health official, in 1962 for Birmingham, Ala., and later Greensboro, N.C. Returning in 1964, Joyce assumed the position of assistant
to the treasurer and since the arrival of C. David Cornell in 1971, is assistant to the comptroller. Both sisters
live in the Davidson area, Joyce in Davidson itself and Loyce in Mooresville. How purely Davidson.
