Becker’s World

“Ernie, Ernie, Why Say It All Twice?”
By BRUCE BECKER
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Major College NCAA Wildcats (that is our official name) reported to metropolitan Davidson on August 20, 1972.
I can't believe I’ve been here just 32 days. It seems like 32 months. Reporting to camp 32 days early
is something straight out of Poe. It’s called “Premature Burial.” It’s as exciting as frenching your grandmother. It's as hot
as the executive steam room at Vic Tanny’s, and about as fun as parachuting into Mt. Vesuvius while it's erupting.

We all lost track of time after the third day, or maybe it was the fourth. Each day was the
same. Everyone wore his clothes days or weeks at a time. At first, there was no laundry service, so there
was a premium on underwear. What the heck, we wore our football duds most of the time anyway. Tuesday blended
into Thursday and Wednesday into Friday. There were no such things as dates or calendars. Steve Shankweiler practically forgot his
birthday. We had enough trouble keeping track of...

Kickers Prepare To Meet Guilford

The Davidson Soccer team has spent the past week in double practice sessions to prepare for their season opener at
Guilford. The team ran through regular drills and scrimmages twice a day Monday through Wednesday of this week, then shifted
to their regular practice schedule.

Head coach Harry Fogleman is fairly optimistic about the Cat’s coming season and predicted they would make a strong bid
for their third conference championship in as many years. The team has 27 players returning from last season, including most
of the starting line, a first-team halfback, and a starting fullback, according to Fogleman. Two international students, a major part
of the strength of the team in past years, are preparing to join the squad, along with what Fogleman called
“a great group of freshman halfbacks.”

This year's schedule includes 12 regular season games prior to the playoffs. The Cats open at Guilford Tuesday and then
return for their first home contest Saturday, Sept. 30. Fogleman said he felt several teams in the conference would be
improved over last year. He said that East Carolina, William and Mary, and Furman will all be stronger...

Kroll Returns As Cat Coach

Jerry Kroll, a former all-conference forward for the Davidson cagers, has been named assistant coach for the Wildcat basketball team.
Kroll replaces Duncan Postma, another former Davidson cager who coached the Wildkittens last year.

Kroll, a graduate in 1970, was a three-year starter for the team during a period in which the Cats won
73 games and lost 13. During that period, the team was ranked eighth, third, and 15th nationally. After playing for
Davidson, Kroll was drafted by the Indiana Pacers and traded to the Carolina Cougars. While with the Cougars he injured
his knee, forcing him to give up professional basketball.

...teams due to intensive recruiting. “Those games, along with the Western Carolina and Duke games will all be tough contests,”
he said, “but we'll be in there, all the way to championship time.”

You could learn a thing or two from Jim. He's NML on campus. “Let me show you how right now.”
And, no matter where you move in the U.S. after graduation, there'll...be an NML man there to help serve your
individual needs. 21-1969-02 Talk to Jim. Life insurance can be, right now, a useful tool that helps you reach your
goals in life. Your rates for life insurance will never be lower than they are in the months. The worst
part of our late summer "vacation" was seeing the coaches every day. Coach Fagg wasn't too bad. After three years
I've grown accustomed to his face. The defense said Coach Mosketti was bad, but I want to present my case
against Ernest Tall, offensive backfield coach. I haven't minded looking at Coach Tall for the last month, but listening to
him is another thing entirely. It’s like hearing a radio station sign off with the national anthem at four in
the morning. Contrary to what you might be thinking, Coach Tall, or Ernie as we affectionately call him, does not
have a lisp. In fact, he has almost excellent diction. Ernie is the most considerate speaker you would ever want
to hear. He says something, and in case you didn't hear him, he says it again. That is the problem.
Coach Tall says everything twice. On the field, Coach Tall sounds something like this: "Okay, men, okay. Let's go. Let's
go. Let’s get it up, now. Let's get it. We're dragging. We're dragging. Scoop drill. Scoop drill. Look it in.
Look it in." When you first hear him it is marvelously different, but after 32 days in this twilight zone,
they're having to issue us Wildcat ear plugs for practice. I imagine that Coach Fagg has noticed this quirk of
Ernie’s and said something to him. The conversation must have sounded something like this: "What are we talking about, Ernie?"
queried Coach Fagg. "I don’t know. God knows. I don’t know, Ernie, but God knows." "What did you say, coach?
What did you say?" said Coach Tall. "Ernie, Ernie, why is it you say everything twice?" "I don't know, coach.
I don’t know." "You've been doing this for over a year now, Coach Tall. There’s something wrong here, something bad
wrong." "I don’t know, coach. I don't know. It's a habit. It's a habit." "Well, I've been looking at some
film of you, coach," said Coach Fagg, "and I'll tell you what I see. It’s a lack of concentration. You're
not thinking about what you're saying. You must be thinking about your wife, Sukie, and how she can stuff seven
Oreo cookies in your mouth at the same time." "That's not true, coach. That's not true," pleaded Ernie. "They were
chocolate chip cookies. They were chocolate chip cookies." On the discussion went. They never resolved anything because to this day
Coach Tall says everything twice. Furthermore, in case you've been wondering, Coach Tall is really able to eat seven, count
'em, seven Oreo cookies and still have room to chew. I mean chocolate chip cookies. I mean chocolate chip cookies.

Mon. - Fri. 9 - 5:30 $22 per month. MerroLease THE HUB OPEN: In our showroom, you'll discover the convenient
way to give your apartment that personal touch. Over 200 combinations of quality furniture (contemporary featured), TVs, stereos, and accessories
you can lease with the option to buy. Complete apartment groups from 900 E. Trade St., Charlotte, N.C., Phone (704)
553-3500.
