Ray Swetenburg sets new records in high hurdles and single-meet points.

The Davidsonian
March 31, 1972
Page Seven
(Staff photos by Rodriguez)

Swetenburg, Thinclads Rout Guilford
By DAVID MELTON
Staff Writer

The Davidson track team, led by iron-man Ray Swetenburg, recorded a sound victory Friday over Guilford. Swetenburg, a senior pre-med
major from Gainesville, Georgia, eclipsed Davidson’s total point per meet record by scoring 27½ points. The old record of 25
points was set in 1930 by Heath Whittle, Davidson track coach.

Swetenburg’s story is one of surprising success. “I didn't start running track until my senior year in high school,” he
explained. A spectator of the meet Friday would never have known this, however. Swetenburg promptly took first place ribbons in
the broad jump, the triple jump, the high hurdles, and the 220-yard dash. He also finished second in the high
jump and the 100-yard dash and ran a leg on the winning 440-yard relay team.

Swetenburg attributes much of his success to Wildcat track coach Heath Whittle. “He’s helped me in the hurdles more than
anything else,” he explained. The reason Swetenburg participates in track is simple. “I run track because it’s fun; records are
just fringe benefits,” he said. As for his accomplishments, Swetenburg acknowledged that he is pleased, “but there's always room for
improvement.”

He also feels that participating in a non-subsidized program has not been a disadvantage to him. Swetenburg added, “one reason
I’ve enjoyed track is because it isn’t subsidized and therefore not as pressurized.” One disadvantage he has had is his
major. He explained that “being pre-med, it’s been hard to work track in with my labs and everything.” However, he
also added that “track at Davidson is as much hard work as you want it to be.”

When Swetenburg came to Davidson as a freshman, he did not know what to expect, as far as track was
concerned. He commented, “I didn’t win any hurdles events my freshman year, but it didn’t discourage me because I was
having fun.” Upon being asked if he felt that he could compete nationally, Swetenburg replied, “I’m not on a national
level.” However, he once qualified to compete nationally, indoors, but he did not get to go.

Swetenburg holds the Davidson triple jump record of 47'8” in addition to his hurdle mark. He has cleared 6’2” in
the high jump and has long jumped 21'4½", with best clockings of 10.1 and 23.0 in the 100- and 220-yard
dashes, respectively.

“Iron-Man” Swetenburg, however, did have a large supporting cast Friday with nine other Wildcats recording first place finishes. Tommy Richardson
took the 100-yard dash in 9.9 seconds. Mark Conners won the 440-yard dash in 51.7 seconds, and Ricky Bell took
the mile in 4:25.4. This was the fastest mile run by a Davidson student in ten years. Bell commented on
his performance by saying “it took a lot of hard work and practice, but to me it’s fun.” He also
gave credit to the coaches by adding “Coaches Whittle and Martin both had me ready.”

In other races, freshman Bob Lautensack won the 880, Howard Boyd took the 3-mile run, and Steve Still won the
440-yard hurdles. In the pole vault, Woody Van Meter, another freshman, set a school record of 13 feet. The old
record was 12 feet 7½ inches set by Bill Mills.In 1962, Van Meter expects more improvement this year and he
set 14 feet as his goal. David Crumpler, a junior from Magnolia, Arkansas, won the discus, and the shot put
was taken by Steve Shankweiler, a junior from Atlanta, Georgia. Coach Whittle, who is retiring after this year, commented, “I
was well pleased with the performance.” He was happy with everyone’s performance, but added that he was “especially pleased with
Van Meter and Swetenburg.” Whittle also pointed out that Swetenburg broke his own school record in the high hurdles by
turning in a 14.3-second performance. The former record was 14.4 seconds. The next meet for the Wildcats is April 8
at Berry College in Rome, Georgia. Whittle expects everyone to be healthy and well by this next meet. He added
that several members of the team have been sick.

Willie Deese Dies In Auto Accident
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

An automobile accident last Saturday evening claimed the life of Willie Deese, an employee of Davidson College since 1953. Deese,
aged 69, was killed when his car skidded off icy highway 73 between Davidson and Concord. Funeral services for Deese
will be held tomorrow in Terrence Chapel at 2 p.m.

Deese served the college as a maintenance worker for the athletic department. His supervisor, Junior Barker, remembered Deese as a
very reliable and dependable worker. “Willie was just like one of the family, and I’m really going to miss him.
I could trust him to always do a great job getting the tennis courts ready, to regulate the chemicals in
the pool, or to issue and check in equipment,” Barker recalled.

Barker also revealed that Deese was a great fan of former Davidson head basketball coach Lefty Driesell. “Lefty was always
‘his’ coach, since Willie was here when Lefty came. He remembered the beginnings that Lefty had with that old station
wagon and little money to recruit with.”

“Saturday afternoon Willie brought a small television to work and watched Maryland play in the NIT while he managed the
equipment room. I’m glad Willie got to see Lefty win that championship.”

Deese was also extremely interested in the tennis team and had been responsible for maintenance of the courts since 1964.
Davidson tennis coach Harry Fogleman stated that Deese was going to be missed and emphasized his reliability. “I never had
to worry about Willie doing his job on the courts. He learned how to construct the base of the courts,
and the amount of water required by each court. He would always say ‘these are my courts and this is
my team’,” Fogleman explained.

The Robert Lee Stowe Tennis House was a source of pride for Deese, according to Fogleman. “One day Willie met
Mr. Stowe and promised to take good care of the building. He always kept it clean.”

“Willie was always doing little personal things for the players, like looking after their equipment. He would also know how
to repair nets, which prevented us from having to make costly replacements,” Fogleman said. “I don’t believe that Willie ever
got mad, except when students would play with basketball shoes on composition courts,” Fogleman added.

With the passing of Willie Deese, the Davidson athletic family lost a valuable worker and friend. As Barker remarked, “Willie
was from the old school in a lot of ways. He stuck to the rules, and you don’t find many
people like that around any more.”
