a Twelve October 27, 1972

Up’ n’ Coming

Wednesday, November 1
3 to 9 p.m. French-Swiss Ski College
All day Straw Ballot
8 p.m. Fine Film: "The World of Apu"
Love Auditorium

Thursday, November 2
10 a.m. and 3 p.m. Movie: "Millhouse"
8 and 10 p.m. Movie: "Little Big Man"
8:15 p.m. Major Drama Production: "School for Scandal"

Friday, November 3
10 a.m. and 3 p.m. Movie: "Millhouse"
8 and 10 p.m. Movie: "Little Big Man"
8:15 p.m. Major Drama Production: "School for Scandal"

Saturday, November 4
8 and 10 p.m. Movie: "Little Big Man"
8:15 p.m. Major Drama Production: "School for Scandal"

Monday, October 30
10 a.m. A Happening: Phillip Mullen, Stowe Galleries
8 and 10 p.m. Film: "The Seven Year Itch"
Union Bar
9:45 p.m. Christian Fellowship, Martin Room

Tuesday, October 31
8:30 a.m. Graduate Record Exam, Ovens Room
All day Chambers Foyer and P.O.
Love Auditorium
8:15 p.m. Major Drama Production: "School for Scandal"

Seniors Featured
By BRUCE MALOY
Asst. Managing Editor

Twenty Davidson College seniors have been recognized by Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities for their outstanding contributions to the college community. Dean of Students Will Terry said, “We select them by asking a committee of fourteen students and fourteen faculty and administrators to nominate fifteen people. The twenty with the most votes are chosen."

Facets of college life represented by the 20 include student government, athletics, and, more than any other group, past freshman hall counselors. Alan Baragona is associate editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and an Honors College student. Jim Campbell is president of the Union and chairman of the Social Council. Hearing Committee member and former hall counselor Dick Clay was named as was Senior Class president, former hall counselor and football player Mike Creasman. Larry Duncan, president of the Y.M.C.A., former hall counselor, and an active member of the I.M.A.C., was named. The list also includes student solicitor and baseball player Randy Ely.

Students Must Get Permission From Cornell To See Fee Data
By GARY STEWART
Staff Writer

The SGA discovered this week that Davidson students must receive authorized permission from Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell before they can see a breakdown of the comprehensive fee. Todd Eades, SGA parliamentarian, went to the comptroller’s office to obtain a list of the five items composing the fee, but Davidson wouldn't give him the figures without special authorization from Cornell.

“This violates an informal agreement made last year between the college and the student body. Davidson is supposed to provide a breakdown of the fee,” Eades said. “What’s wrong with the college telling us how our money is going to be spent,” said student body President Ralph Peeples. “The tuition fee is hiding things.”

In New ‘Who’s Who’
Bill Eskridge, who has the distinction of being ranked first in his class and being captain of the debate team, was included. Skip Holcombe is freshman class advisor, a soccer player, and a former hall counselor. Leader of the Davidson College Young Republicans, George Kaneklides and member of the Black Student Coalition and the Student Life Committee, Reggie Kennedy were named. Freshman Class advisor and former hall counselor Rob Krebs was listed along with senator and Union Board member Bill Mier. Co-captain of the football team and past president of Phi.

Davidson Institutes Changes
(Continued From Page 1)
Eight college exchange at Davidson is dependent on student participation. The determining factor will be student wishes, not administrative policies,” commented Nstwalt. Another decision concerned the women who enrolled at.

Blacks Get
(Continued From Page 1)
Engaging in exchange programs with Fisk, Howard and Morehouse in an arrangement similar to the present Eight College Exchange Program. “I think what the Black Student Coalition is asking for are fairly realistic requests,” he said. “They seem to be saying, ‘We've experienced frustration here at Davidson; help us make this a better place for blacks so we can enthusiastically recommend Davidson to others,’” Bevan added. Spencer added, “I can certainly understand the reaction of the black students. I would say their presentation to the Faculty Executive Committee.was done in a rational way, and in the context of discussion will be the best means to arrive at a solution.” Davidson under the exchange program of 72-73 without realizing the alternative of regular coeds. Those women involved in this transitional period mix-up who want to transfer will be dealt with on an individual basis, he explained. “Women students who enrolled in the Davidson 72-73 exchange program would not normally be eligible for transfer. However, in specific cases in which such a student established with her home institution her desire to transfer, she may be considered for transfer," Ostwalt said. “Such students who consider themselves eligible under this provision must establish the fact of their eligibility with their home institution," he added. The proposals made by the group of representatives were unanimously approved, but await final adoption by the colleges’ presidents. Entering into this complicated situation involving both permanent and transfer coeds is the problem of housing, Ostwalt continued. He suggested that a quota of exchange students will be necessary. “I can see the logic in a quota system. Davidson College may want to establish quotas in the Eight College Exchange Program and has full authority to do so. One possibility of such a program would be on a match and unmatch basis.” This system would set a limit on the number of students coming to Davidson in excess of the number of students Davidson is sending to the other seven colleges, and would account for dormitory space.

For example, last year only fraternity members eating at Patterson Court had to pay the extra $50 for rent on the houses,” Peeples said. “Now this fee is included in tuition. Even though the freshmen don't eat in these houses, they are paying for them because it is automatically included in the comprehensive fee." Eades added, “It looks like you're not paying for the fraternity houses, but you really are.” The comprehensive fee this year is composed of tuition--$2235, laundry--$125, activity fees--$80, room rental--$350, and board--$600. These were lumped together for the first time last year into one sum in order for the college to handle the financial figures easily. “The college made it easier for them, but it still hides things from us,” Eades said. “There must be something wrong if students have to go through this much hassle to get the figures.” In response to these accusations Cornell said, “So many people come walking into my office asking about the comprehensive fee without rational reasons that I told my people not to give out the information. Todd Eades came into my office and I gave permission to the Comptroller so that he could intelligently sit down and discuss the reasons with Todd,” he said. “I am perfectly willing to let the student government have this information because I believe that they will use it in a responsible way,” Cornell said.

YMCA Drive Successful
By HUGH HENNIS
Staff Writer

This year's YMCA membership drive turned out to be one of the best since 1966, according to YMCA President Larry Duncan. A sum of approximately $3,300 was raised through the volunteer efforts of Davidson College YMCA staff members. This is $1,200 over last year's figure but $1,700 short of the YMCA goal of $5,000. The majority of the money came from the Freshman Class, Duncan said. With a contribution of $5, the student was entitled to a national YMCA membership card, good at any Y in America.

CAMERAS PHOTO SUPPLIES DARK ROOM EQUIPMENT RECORDS TAPES SOUND EQUIPMENT
Hi-Fi Camera Center
Charlottetown Mall

Bantam Chef Special Of The Week
Two Hot Dogs
French Fries
Vanilla or Chocolate Shake

For Fresh - Hot Bantam Chef Quick Foods at