Page Six
March 31, 1972
The Davidsonian

Dedicated Professor Speaks Chinese

If Gil Holland, Professor of English, says “Ni-Hao-Ma?” to you some morning, just say “Fine, thanks.” For the past two years, Holland has been studying Chinese, first from tapes in the language lab and last summer at Stanford University.

“Chinese has a long heritage of culture behind it—thousands of years of poems and prose, as well as being the world’s most spoken language,” Holland says. He recommends that “Everyone ought to at least try it. They have everything to gain and nothing to lose.” He did emphasize, though, that in order to learn Chinese, the student must be dedicated. The most demanding phase is at the beginning where about ten hours a week for three to four weeks are recommended in order to master the fundamentals. However, he feels that the time spent is well worth it. “It takes the measure of a man—a lot of discipline, but intellectually I don't think you will be disappointed.”

Grammatically, Chinese is similar to western languages. Written Chinese is composed of characters which represent entire words or in some cases parts of words. No two characters are exactly alike. Each character is formed as a variation on one of 214 radicals (which is the closest thing Chinese has to an alphabet). There is one striking difference.

Renowned African Scholar To Give Reynolds Lectures

By DOUG BROWN
Managing Editor

One of the most distinguished intellectuals in Africa, Dr. Ali A. Mazrui, will be the Reynolds Lecturer from April 4-6. Although only 39 years old, he is the author of eight books and he has published over 60 articles in professional journals and journals of opinion. Professor of Political Science J. Harris Proctor, who is acquainted with Mazrui, said, "We are fortunate indeed to have Dr. Mazrui. He is in great demand, and his speeches are quite stimulating. He is amazingly energetic, and he brims over with ideas.”

Mazrui appears to have the rare quality of being a scholar with charisma. Proctor pointed out he has a reputation for being provocative, and Proctor believes Mazrui is far superior to the average lecturer. Professor of political science at Makerere University of Kampala, Uganda, Mazrui holds a Ph.D. from Oxford University, and he has been a visiting professor at the Universities of Chicago, London, and Manchester. In addition, he has been a visiting research scholar at the University of California at Los Angeles, and he has served as a research associate at Harvard. Mazrui is vice president of the International Congress of Africanists and of the International Political Science Association.

An extremely versatile scholar, he has written such articles as “Political Sex,” “The Poetics of Transplanted Heart,” and “Sacred Suicide.” His latest book is a novel in which he tries to deal with the problem of whether the artist has a higher obligation to his country or to art. Mazrui will give three public lectures on the general theme “The Sacred and the Secular in African Politics.” All public lectures will be held in Hodson Hall, and they will be held at 8 p.m. On Tuesday, April 4, he will speak on “Secular Leadership.”

Lingle, McConnell, Ervin Featured At Convocation

Spring Convocation and Alumni Weekend will draw a probable 4500 visitors to attend one or more of the ceremonies and banquets scheduled for April 28-29. The weekend celebration will begin on Friday morning at the Spring Convocation, in which the classes of 1973, 1974, and 1975 and their parents will be honored. Also, the classes of 1927 and 1928 will receive special recognition.

A main attraction of the morning ceremony will be the presentation of honorary doctor of laws degrees to Walter L. Lingle Jr., Joseph H. McConnell, and Senator Sam Ervin. Lingle, class of '28, is being honored for his long service to the college and in recognition of his contribution to American business. Lingle has served as president of the Davidson Board of Trustees and as president of the Alumni Association. In business, he has had a prosperous career at Proctor and Gamble.

McConnell, class of '27, has made extensive contributions to American business and to higher education. He has served as president of NBC, president of Colgate-Palmolive Co., president of Reynolds Aluminum, and chairman of COMSAT. McConnell is also Rector of the University of Virginia.

The third man to receive honors is Ervin, who will receive the doctor of law degree “for his consistent stand on protection of individual liberties,” according to Greg Scott, Assistant to the President. At the Convocation ceremony, Lingle will be the guest speaker. Various awards will be presented to students. Following this 11 a.m. ceremony, the Convocation Luncheon will feature a speech by McConnell. Students and alumni of theHonored classes are invited only to the luncheon. Alumni Weekend is to follow the Convocation on Friday and will continue on Saturday. Zackary F. Tang, associate director of alumni relations, said, “We feel that for alumni with the campus is to come back to the campus,” and by doing this “they will continue to be interested in it.”

Desi was to say up and Sacred Loyalties. “Personal Intimacy and Political Power” will be the topic for Wednesday, April 5. His final public lecture will be on Thursday, April 6, when he will speak on “Church and State in Black Africa.” Informal discussions will be held in the Morrison Room at 10 a.m. on April 5 and at 4 p.m. on April 6.

The difference between Chinese and English grammar: A Chinese sentence need have only a verb; a subject is not required. Though Holland does not see the grammar as especially difficult, Chinese characters are “another matter.” They require a great deal of memory work. Holland said that a first-year student in Stanford’s Chinese program must be able to form at least 600 characters in order to pass. It requires a knowledge of over 3500 to read a newspaper from Taiwan. A student might also encounter difficulty in learning to correlate the spoken word with the appropriate character. Chinese is a tonal language, meaning that words are distinguished by various tones. Since this problem is not encountered in Western languages, the student must learn new speech patterns. “Learning Chinese would definitely make an excellent independent study program,” said Holland. “The more you get into Chinese, the more you fall in love with it.” He feels that a person choosing to learn Chinese under the independent study program would “have to work hard but would get something out of it.” He also stated that “Davidson’s language facilities are excellent, much better than those at Stanford.” A complete set of introductory tapes for speaking and writing, and the manuals that come with them, have been available in the language lab for over a year. Also in the lab are tapes for Hindi-Urdu, Sanskrit, Portuguese, Russian, Japanese, and Italian. Like the Chinese tapes, they have seldom been used.

HOLLAND: Learning Chinese

National Student Lobby Fights For Collegians In Congress
By TODD EADES
Contributing Editor

The National Student Lobby (NSL) is the only national student organization which is allowed to lobby in Congress on behalf of student interests. Its objectives are to fight for student interests in Washington, to provide information for students, to individually communicate with their representatives, and to help foster state and local lobbies. Itself an outgrowth of the California Student Lobby and the Colorado Student Lobby, the NSL was begun in October 1971 and in January 1972 had 82 member schools in 36 states representing 460,000 students. A permanent organization, NSL is a non-profit registered lobby. It has a permanent staff and offices in Washington, D.C., to monitor the activities of Congress and the Executive, and to make the needs and interests of students known throughout the government. The NSL does not endorse any candidate but takes positions on issues and seeks to affect government policies related to those issues. Positions on issues are adopted through an annual ballot sent to each member's student government. The issue will usually be put before the student body in a referendum. The results of this referendum from all member schools determine the policies of the NSL. When this referendum cannot be scheduled to correspond with regular student government elections, NSL allows the student council to cast a number of votes proportional to the number of students. This provision is mainly for the mammoth universities, and perhaps Davidson could always use the referendum if it joins NSL. When NSL becomes large enough it will divide into regional caucuses for communication and organization purposes. NSL believes that financial support by students, in place of non-student sources, is essential. For the first year, membership fees are scheduled to correspond roughly with the number of students. Davidson's fee would be $40. In succeeding years, fees will be proportional to the number of students at that school and will be set at a level determined by the membership. At the March 14 Senate meeting, former SGA President Danny Clodfelter brought the matter of membership in NSL to the Senate’s attention. The Senate has asked Peter Coye, one of NSL’s original organizers, to meet with the Senate concerning membership. Clodfelter believes Davidson should join NSL. “It’s had a record of success. As a side benefit, the referenda would stimulate discussion of issues.”

FUN IN THE SUN (Staff photos by Rodriguez)
Steve Webb enjoys the recent snowfall.