(Staff Photo by Barnes)

A PHOENIX ARISING FROM THE UNION RUINS

The E. H. Little Library is progressing on schedule

Library Construction Proceeds As Basement Concrete Poured

By HUGH MOORE
Staff Writer

Construction on the E. H. Little Library, at the former site of the Student Union, is progressing on schedule according
to job superintendent Justin Rohney. The greatest amount of work done thus far has been in concrete, most notably the
basement wall facing Chambers. The first floor of the library, also to be concrete, will be constructed next. It will
be supported by concrete steel-reinforced columns now surrounded by wooden formwork. This formwork is topped by steel pans over which
the concrete will be poured. The steel pans are used primarily because of their strength and because they provide a
non-sticking surface. Reinforcing steel cables are to be positioned at the places where the concrete seeps between the pans. The
cables are pre-stressed on the job site. Both formwork and pans will be removed several days after the concrete has
begun to set.

The other two floors of the library will be constructed in a similar manner. Each floor will be poured in
three sections, Rohney said. The middle section of the first floor should be poured sometime next month, and the entire
first floor should be completed by the beginning of the year, according to Rohney.

There has also been substantial work done on the utilities for the library. Water, steam, sewer, and electrical lines have
all begun to be installed at the site. Most of the electrical line, however, will be positioned between the concrete
floor slab and the suspended ceiling, Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr. indicated. Foundation drainage via perforated
pipes is to be the next major utility addition.

Rohney said that although there have been an average of 25 men on the site since construction began, no students
are presently working for him. Yet some students could possibly begin work when the library is nearer to completion and
more help is needed. More than 50 men will eventually be employed, Rohney said.

The Davidsonian
December 1, 1972
Page Seven

Outside Perspective
By LEX VFAZEY

Student Evaluations Improve Teaching

John Centra, a research psychologist at Educational Testing Service, recently conducted a study of student evaluations of teaching at five
different colleges. The study supported the value of student evaluations as a method of improving college teaching. Among the conclusions
reached by Centra was that college teachers who think a lot more of their classroom performance than their students do
are likely to change for the better after seeing how the students rate them. Teachers whose self-evaluation may be less
favorable than, but closer to, their students’ estimates probably won’t change even if there is room for improvement. Despite the
general expectation that teachers improve with experience, it was found that more experienced teachers received no better student ratings than
those in their first two years of teaching.

Students, Faculty Prefer Block Plan

A recent survey conducted at Colorado College in Colorado Springs, Colorado, shows that 81 percent of the faculty and 88
percent of the students prefer the “block plan.” Under the “block plan,” students ordinarily take only one course at a
time for a three-and-one-half week period. Students thus are allowed to concentrate on only one subject instead of the three
or four courses they would take simultaneously in the conventional quarter or semester system. Flexibility in scheduling is aMajor advantage
of the "block system," says George Drake, Dean of Colorado College. "Since students and faculty are involved in only one
course," he pointed out, "there are no schedule conflicts, and the day or week can be structured as seems most
appropriate to the purposes of the course."

Folk Mass Combines Art Forms, Warmth
By VAL VAN HORN
Staff Writer

Every Wednesday night at 10 p.m. a small group of students congregates in the Martin Room of the Union. There
is an immediate warmth on entering the room, a quick rapport between newcomers and regulars.

Computer Finishes Results Of Union Facilities Survey
By BRUCE MALOY
Asst. Managing Editor

Close to 400 questionnaires seeking preferences about college Union facilities and services have been returned and tabulated. There was about
a six-week delay in tabulating the questionnaires while various methods were tried. Union Director C. Shaw Smith said, "We went
to the computer to get it done as we should have in the first place. The total cost was 75
cents for computer paper."

Smith explained that the results of the questionnaires have not yet been studied and evaluated. "A cursory look shows that
more people want the union to have a college calendar more than any other feature," Smith laughingly pointed out. Airplane
rentals and other out of the ordinary services got little interest. "Students seem to want things that they already know
and have enjoyed," Smith added.

The questionnaires left no clear preference for a location. The site which got the largest number of positive responses, the
center of Patterson Court, got exactly the same number of negative responses. Smith explained that the results will be written
up in a report and sent to Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. before Christmas. "He’s been interested in
the Union all along," said Smith, "and he’s been asking me about this report since the very beginning of the
year."

"Before recommendations are made to President Spencer," Smith continued, "members of the Union Board and interested students will meet to
discuss their ideas."

With an air of open informality, the group fulfills its purpose of giving thanks. The name of the group is
the Community Folk Mass. Folk mass is ancient, derived from the people. The Community Folk Mass itself is by the
people: Davidson College students, Rev. Brown Patterson of St. Albans Episcopal Church and Rev. Thomas Droppers of St. Mark’s Episcopal
Church in Huntersville.

According to Patterson, students expressed to him a need for weekly Holy Communion. Permission for this type of musical service
was secured from the Bishop, resulting in a spontaneous and open celebration of thanks which spread from Davidson students to
the community and surrounding areas.

"The Community Folk Mass is open to all people, all denominations, even atheists," emphasized David Foerster, one organizer of the
group. "Anyone might find something they're looking for. The Community Folk Mass gets together people who might have been turned
off by structured worship."

The Community Folk Mass is not rigidly structured. Everyone is allowed to take part. Two guitarists strum background for folk
hymns while a flute pipes the melody. Those who are not musically inclined may participate by preparing part of the
service. The service does not consist of the sermon-ennui syndrome. Various art forms are used. Folk hymns with catchy rhythms
along with recording have been used. Other art forms suggested by Patterson for future use include religious films, poetry, and
dance.

(Staff Photo by Barnes)
GIVING THANKS
Patterson and students celebrate weekly mass.
