Page Two October 2, 1972

Ger Bavitscriar

MOTEL SITE FOR LEASE

ARE YOU SURE? Land is being graded but no contract has yet been signed.

Senate Proposes Exam

Yul ee a mt) Bo TUM Ais Oe TH vec ee set Poe “ews Emer Log tetotg wee ae wo eters for ore Suagetr: 4 Sew eg or Se to fare - = - fn ty T3842 ftz7 "2 “yee oe - "se bse -y rg SE ES ope rpe mere ote s eg ae 8 ee ES et ree a ss coer etre St Teste met: 55+ es Oe 8 re Dae Wa + Let Ors to te ete ers eae ee a nn ks i te Asya Ft AU SA Se 2 eee 6 re sees se Sew s we ce ret! a on r - ve . "Ss: “- es bee Etat ST re eee Se 2 te “= * . a a we 7 cele 900 Woeiveae CSc ; - “> - - <= ser a "e leo -yc- 2 4s. ee ad OF Se a ae Se et ee i i a ce we + om Fe a 7. eT - -.- , . a ae -- pero e 2°": re - = ree oo ‘— ae = - - - ee 2 : S 4 ot Ss ST - = < - -~ - - = - - “ he Bauid t Staff e . . -- Seliesilis PA - . wer bs - > > - > wir | tees Eres - ee a . . =F ~ L > ; 7 Pieswire prs bs tS Fe RE bln EsRNES P tesirz repoers dsenient Memaeien: boner > Bvt HOWE] BE ea i As 33 , . ur RE Ts* .

BILL ELLETT Asst. Sports Editor

DAVID MELTON Cartoonists

STEVE BALKOM JOHN LEMMON agers

Contributors this week: Betsy Durmeen, Greg Dur, Allen Ford, Hugh Moore, Ford Newman, Jon Phipps, Charis Sheperd, Jim Sitterson, Bob Wetzel, George Widenhouse, and Bob Wright.

Aske Ger Mark & Ger. Garvin

ADIT Ju Published weekly at Davidson, NC by Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage is paid at Davidson, NC 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00. Students Some Say Load Too Strenuous

vic mob b ~ s - “+ z &- of *- & c+ . -— SS Sot oe - =~ae = ore re. "2.6 Ta ae oe ae ost. sat po tetier for each semester in which they plan to major. Richard C. Jr. cited three reasons why students may wish to take the extra courses: personal enrichment, early graduation, and removal of deficiencies. By taking courses each semester, students can graduate in three years.

College Buys Land, Seeks Motel Builder for I-77 Location

BY JOHN PHIPPS Staff Writer

Davidson College is searching for a company willing to construct a motel on five acres of land near the intersection of I-77 and Griffen Street, according to C. Shaw Smith, Vice President of Finance and Development. The college purchased the five acres from the Gamble family at the price of $90,000 per acre. Grading of the land was included in the price. The college purchased the land because Cornell wanted to control the development of the area, so as to ensure a suitable motel. The college had about eight companies interested in leasing the land and constructing the motel. President Samuel R. Spencer gave assurances last week that this program would be initiated.

A motion on subsidized elections based on the honor system was tabled after a heated discussion in which Bill Meier stated that "We don't work under..."Our honor system here works under a system of fear. It was also pointed out that last Tuesday's RHC elections were really not that significant since many of the polling stations went unsupervised.

It was remarked that there is a sufficient community in the area. We thought that economically it is feasible. He also mentioned that industries in Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville need close access. The motel would consist of approximately 100 rooms, a quality restaurant, meeting rooms, and a swimming pool. Present college plans are formed, but he hoped that the architecture and land by the lake will be visible from the first floor of the motel as well as higher levels.

Recently, a billboard has been placed on the property facing I-77 to attract interested companies or individuals. The billboard cost several hundred dollars. Cornell said, “We have already had two bites since the billboard was installed.” A shopping center and possibly some apartments are being developed by the Gamble family on the land adjacent to the college's land. A member of the Gamble family refused to comment when asked about plans earlier this week.

Take Four Courses

He is taking three courses and a French elective this term. He said he will probably take courses in the winter and during the summer. Reynolds interpreted three of his area requirements so he could take courses. He wants this. Although he said he does not feel confined by his schedule, he did say he could “probably do it if he did not have the labs.” He advised, “forget it,” to students who are not interested and don't mind working.

Another sophomore, Donald K. Smith, has no intention of graduating early, yet has the four-course schedule too. Smith, a physics major, said he is taking the extra course this term in order to fulfill area requirements and open the next two terms for mathematics courses he wants to take. His schedule for the fall includes courses in anthropology, physics, mathematics, and religion. He does not think he will need to do it again. Nevertheless, three students take the fourth course. It was possible for him to take the fourth course. His fourth course was to have been German, which, in addition to courses in chemistry and South Asian studies, produced a rigorous schedule.

He felt other parts of college life are very important, indicating the need for extracurricular activity. He said he would not recommend the fourth course to students who have “two courses which demand an awful lot of time.” Godbehere, a chemistry major, decided not to take the fourth course because of conflicts in his schedule. The additional course was to have been advanced ROTC. He said that advanced ROTC was not as tough as the average Davidson course and would not have been a burden. “Some courses are real ass-busters,” Godbehere cautioned students considering the program. “I want to milk as much out of Davidson as I can,” he explained. For the same reason, Godbehere said he did not wish to graduate early. Psychology and rigorous schedule studies would have been part of his college life.