THE VETERAN AND THE FRESHMAN (Staff photos by Dimmock) Retiring coach Heath Whittle advises freshman vaulter Woody Van Meter. The Davidsonian April 28, 1972 Page Seven

Whittle Closes Out Illustrious Career As Track Coach
By DAVID MELTON
Staff Writer

Davidson track coach Heath Whittle closes out a 46-year career at Davidson this year. Whittle, a native of Butler, Ga., entered Davidson in 1926 and performed brilliantly for the Wildcat thinclads for four years as a hurdler, sprinter, and jumper. Whittle established school records in the high and low hurdles and set a record for most points in a single meet with 25 against Wake Forest. In that meet, he won the high and low hurdles, 100- and 220-yard dashes, and the broad jump.

Whittle: ‘A Wonderful Life’
By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

Heath Whittle leaned back in his chair the other day and surveyed 46 years as a student and coach at Davidson. “It’s been a wonderful life,” he said. “There hasn’t been a single day that I haven't looked forward to getting out and working with the boys.

“I guess some of my most interesting experiences have been finding talent in boys who had never participated in track before.” The veteran track mentor cited several former Wildcat thinclads as examples. One was Chase Brenizer, who tried several events without success and did not score his first point until his junior season. Brenizer blossomed rapidly, however, and was high scorer for the 1941 squad, setting a school record in the broad jump which still stands.

Another “find” of Whittle’s was T. English “Boo” Walker, who hailed from Steele Creek. “I found him running the wrong way around the track one day,” Whittle laughingly recalled. “He’d never even seen a track meet before.” Asked what he wanted to run, Walker replied, “a couple times around,” meaning the 880. He went on to become a “terrific trackman,” Whittle noted, and was high scorer on the 1938 and 1939 teams.

One day Whittle noticed a freshman named Bill Egbert wearing “unusual shoes” on the track. He asked him about them and found out that Egbert had taken the spikes out of a pair of track shoes and stuck chewing gum in the holes. “He was real slow,” Whittle remembered, “but he was very dedicated and stuck with it, and eventually made all-conference in cross-country.”

Another diamond in the rough for Whittle was Phil Koontz, who did not run track in high school. Someone tipped the coach that a guy in an intramural football game “ran like a rabbit,” and a star was discovered. Koontz went on to become Southern Conference champion in the 100- and 220-yard dashes and the long jump in 1955.

Sterling Martin, Whittle’s assistant since 1964, came out of nowhere (he didn’t run in high school) to win the freshman cake race and went on to make all-conference cross-country three straight years.

Whittle has been very successful with his “finds” and other boys who have come out of the student body, as his winning percentage attests. However, the trend in recent years towards increased subsidization has made it rough on non-subsidized programs such as Davidson's.

Coach Honored
Today is Heath Whittle Day. Whittle has served Davidson as track coach for 42 years and is retiring at the end of the season. Prior to coaching the Cats, Whittle was a Davidson thinclad himself from 1926 to 1930.

Both the athletic department and the Alumni Association are honoring Whittle with a series of activities throughout the day. The activities will begin with Whittle’s last home track meet, a tri-meet with The Citadel and I at 2:30 p.m. One of the special events of the meet will be an Alumni Cake Race, a re-enactment of the annual event Whittle started years ago.

Whittle started the annual Freshman Cake Race in an effort to discover talented runners for the track program. After the meet, the alumni association is sponsoring a reception for Whittle on the Union patio. Tonight Whittle will be honored at a banquet in Chambers Dining Hall. The banquet will be attended by Davidson thinclads whom Whittle has coached throughout his career and any other interested students and alumni. Tickets are available from the Alumni Office for $2.

With “Whittle Day”a team that was non-subsidized beating us," Whittle commented. "We used to beat teams like State, Wake Forest, Furman, and Citadel every year until they started subsidizing." Nevertheless, Whittle has been an open proponent of non-subsidization. "The boys that came out for track have always been ones that enjoyed it. I never encouraged a boy to stay out if he didn’t enjoy it." He never cut a boy from the squad and rewarded boys who stayed on the team for four years without lettering with a “service letter” for their dedication.

Track and Davidson have both changed tremendously during Whittle’s 46-year tenure. He remarked that "the biggest change is in the type of training that we do. We’d never heard of interval training in my day." Most training then consisted merely of repetition of one’s event. The bamboo pole was in use in the pole vault in 1930, but since has given way to aluminum, steel, and now fiberglass. The triple jump and intermediate hurdles have been added and the low hurdles dropped as track events. Every school track record has been broken at least once since Whittle has been at Davidson.

The college itself has changed quite a bit, also, and Whittle has noticed a difference in his track teams as a result. Up until recent years, he observed, "The boys did not have to study so much. We used to take a bus on trips and always had a great time. There has always been a great spirit on the team, but now the boys take books on trips and go to the library when they get there. They used to look forward to getting away from the campus and having a good time. The boys knew each other better back then, too."

Times have indeed changed at Davidson and in the world of track and field since Heath Whittle was a college freshman. More than a small measure of that change is due to Coach Whittle himself. Although Whittle has seen many things change at Davidson, there is one more that he’d like to see. A fund has been started by several of his former runners to raise money for an all-weather track. This would replace the cinder track now in use, which has caused many maintenance headaches. As Whittle commented, "The only days I've regretted as track coach have been the ones when we had to mark off the track." The track will be named, as a fitting legacy to him, the Heath Whittle Track. For 46 years Davidson track has meant Heath Whittle. It is hard to imagine a Davidson track team without him. 46 years... He'll be missed.

COUNSELING CROSSWHITE

The meet mark stood for 42 years until Ray Swetenburg collected 27% earlier this season in a meet against Guilford. He also participated in the high jump in meets and ran cross-country for three years. Whittle was state champion in both hurdle events for three straight years as a collegian. In 1930 he tied the world record for the 70-yard low hurdles indoors. In the finals of that same meet, he ran a photo-finish with Sol Furth of Michigan, then the world record holder. After a 15-minute deliberation by the officials, however, Furth was awarded first place. For his achievements, both as a runner and as a coach, Whittle has been named to the Helms Athletic Foundation Track Hall of Fame.

After graduation from Davidson, Whittle was preparing to take a job as coach at Episcopal High School in Virginia when Capt. Pritchard, then Athletic Director at Davidson, offered him a job as his assistant. He accepted and has been coach of the track and cross country teams here ever since. Asked about Whittle’s retirement, Assistant Track Coach Sterling Martin stated, "Anyone who has put 43 years into an institution will surely be missed." Martin first met Whittle in 1959 when Martin was a freshman at Davidson. Asked if Coach Whittle has changed over the years, Martin replied, "Very little. He’s still about as enthusiastic and active as when I first met him." Martin commented that Whittle is "a rare personality at Davidson because he has touched the lives of so many students as a coach and as a person." Whittle’s lifetime coaching winning percentage is better than 70 percent. Whittle counsels Craig Crosswhite on the javelin.