Page Two April 7, 1972 The Buck's Passed The Davidsonian

The Dorms Won’t Last
By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

In last week's Rusk Hall Counselors' meeting, Joe Bradley prominently expressed the feeling: “I am questioning the janitorial work.” Speaking
from his experiences of living in Rusk, Bradley pointed out that for part of the time, the janitors themselves are
rather nebulous in their duties. Tanner, another counselor, supported Bradley's point, stating that much of the problem stems from a
lack of clear communication and responsibility.

Dean of Students Will Terry sympathized with the position of Lay and Bradley but emphasized that the custodial problem, being
a very sticky one, may well involve many more members of the college community than just the janitorial staff. His
impression of the situation is that a great deal of the problem is a lack of a clear definition of
just whose responsibility it is to see that the work is done.

“It seems to me that there is confusion about who is basically responsible for seeing that the dorms are clean,
aside from the fact that we know that Mr. Meetz is ultimately responsible for the custodians,” Terry said. “What we
need is a clear understanding of with whom the buck stops!”

“There is also another problem to be considered: that is that dorm cleanliness on a larger scale cannot be maintained
without student cooperation,” he added.

When asked his opinion on the hall counselors’ proposal of firing the custodians, Terry felt that it expressed a “typical
display of Clay rhetoric” and really wouldn't solve much.

UNC Professor and candidate for the N.C. Legislature John Robbins meets local voters in a walk around Mecklenburg County.

Senate Charters Kaneklides Faction, Hears Butner Report On Gym Hours
By BRUCE MALOY
Staff Writer

The Senate met last Tuesday and adjourned in record time. The main business was a discussion on gym hours and
a re-charter by the Young Republican Club.

Senator Blain Butner presented the results of his investigation into the possibilities of extending gym hours. Butner reported that considerations
of safety and security require that someone be on duty in the gym whenever it is open. He added, “Finances
prevent regular gym employees from working additional overtime. The only other possibilities are work-study students or student volunteers. The matter
of work-study students is being looked into.”

A resolution was passed which granted a charter to the Young Republican Club. Club president George Kaneklides explained after the
meeting, “This

Davidsonian Staff
Managing Editors: DOUG BRINN, ALEC EGAN
News Editor: TOR AINSWORTH
Photography Editor: BILL BARRIOS
Assistant Managing Editors: BILL TOVO, BOB HODGSON
Assistant Business Managers: RICHARD O'CONNELL, RICH SCHMIDT, PHIL STILES
Assistant Sports Editors: HOWARD BIVINS, CHARLIE TERRELL
Copy Editors: BILL ELLETT, LEX VEAZEY
Contributors this week: Rick Hussain, Bruce Slagle, and others.
Sports Editor: JOE EARLE
Associate Editors: ALAN BARAGONA, ROBERT TOUCHTON, GRAY WILSON
Contributing Editors: PHIL BISHOP, TOM BRUCE, TODD EADES, JIM HANNA
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKOM, KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL
Photographers: DAVE DOTY, TODD EADES, JOE RODRIGUEZ, BUB STRAND
Circulation: ROBERT GATES, GREG MITCHELL

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the academic year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.The club is
made up mainly of the more liberal and progressive members of the previously existing Young Republicans on campus.

Asked for the reasons for the split Tuesday, Kaneklides said, “At tonight's election we tried to bring up questions of
procedure and were ignored. The constitution of the club was, in my opinion, transcended. At that time we walked out
of the meeting and asked any members interested in holding fair elections for the club to come with us. We
met, drew up a constitution, elected officers, and then came to the Senate to get a charter.”

When asked to respond to this action, Dan Thorne, newly elected president of the original campus Republican group, stated, “The
meeting was carried on in a perfectly legitimate manner.” Asked what he thought the consequences of the split might be,
he replied, “I would hope that the split could be mended. Anybody that wishes to serve the Republican Party, particularly
in an election year, will be united.”

Terry Compiles SLC Study
(Continued from Page 1)

Terry also mentioned the lack of a sense of belonging prevalent among many students, which results in “privatism, loneliness, noncommitment,
and rootlessness. This student indifference dehumanizes life and other men,” he suggested.

Terry listed a fourth reality as “meaninglessness and the identity crisis. Many even wonder if they have a future.” He
said that “the reality of meaninglessness has caused a crisis of values from the necessity to work to the purpose
of the family. Students as a whole have more intellectual skills than they do values.”

Finally, Terry is disturbed by the “absence of joy and the lack of laughter. It results in a lack of
excitement and enthusiasm. When men lose the capacity to laugh at themselves and with others, they have lost a great
part of their humanity.”

To combat these problems, Terry recommended several comprehensive goals which he feels should be moved toward:
1) Davidson needs to provide the kind of climate in which students may learn skills for communication with other human
beings and those skills which enhance individual humanization.
2) Davidson needs to build upon the goal of the responsible student. We need students who learn to bear the
burdens of their own mistakes without blaming the college, the teacher, or their colleagues.
3) Davidson needs to ensure that there is a value dialogue. As a college still committed to the Christian faith,
we need to be sure that values are challenged, tested, and debated.
4) Davidson needs to harmonize what is learned in the classroom with the rest of the student's life. The conversation
between faculty and students socially has not reflected the caliber of either group.
5) Davidson needs to produce an environment where happiness is more prevalent. The answer is not entirely coeducation, though surely
that would be a large step toward fulfillment; rather, we need to produce a catalyst for joy and a degree
of happiness.

Terry commented that a primary area for work with the SLC will be the social system. “Numerous studies have been
made concerning the social system but have never been implemented. What I hope to do with the committee is take
suggestions, see whether they are valid, and use these kinds of things to make the system better,” he concluded.

Governance
(Continued From Page 1)

The current governance system is haphazard and inefficient. We must reject a governance system that embraces only the privileged in
favor of one in which unity, harmony, and consensus preside. The College Assembly seems to be the best answer.

In changing to such a structure, no group would lose out; in fact, all would gain. Davidson is a very
unhappy place now; something needs to be done to revive it from its lethargic state. A change in governance might
go a long way toward raising academic standards and achieving the goals of the college.
