Page Ten March 17, 1972 The Davidsonian

Friday, March 17
All day U. S. Navy Officer Information Team
Green Room A&B
All day Peace Corps/Vista
Union Lobby
8 p.m. Hungry I: “The Braid”
Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital
Wilmer Welsh
Presbyterian Church

Saturday, March 18
All day DC Flying Club Fly-In
Statesville Airport
8 p.m. The Fantasticks
Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Hungry I: “The Braid”
Union Bar

Tuesday, March 21
10 a.m. Any Questions: Dr. Spencer
Morrison Room

Wednesday, March 22
Noon Lunch Film: “Who Do You Kill?”
Morrison Room
Noon Placement Luncheon
Union Bar
3 p.m. “Slave Auction”: UNCC girls
Union Patio
8 p.m. Bruce Burlson: Candidate

Thursday, March 23
10 a.m. Piedmont Visiting Scholar: Wallace Fowlie
10 a.m. Davidson-Princeton Debate
Noon Lunch Film: “Who Do You Kill?”
Morrison Room
3 p.m. Folk Festival
8 p.m. Transcendental Meditation
8 p.m. Folk Festival
8 p.m. Davidson-Princeton Debate
Eu Hall

Friday, March 24
8 p.m. “Fried Chicken & Watermelon”

Saturday, March 25
10 p.m. “Fried Chicken & Watermelon”

Senate Prop (Continued From Page 1)
A number of ping-pong and pool tables would be made available to the student body. Current plans for such recreation
provide for only one ping-pong table to be set up in the Guest House. With the passing of Corlew’s resolution,
the Senate took it upon itself to locate as many ping-pong and pool tables as possible and to set them
up in the Slater houses on Patterson Court, the basement of the gym, the basement of Belk Dormitory and if
possible, the basement of Richardson Dormitory.

Also this week, in a report by Junior Senator Bill Meier on the campus security situation, it was pointed out
that, other than merely encouraging the Administration to improve campus security, there is actually very little that can be done
at this point to improve the situation other than to alert students to the problem and to urge the coeds
to walk in pairs at night. Meier said that in meetings with Administrators and with Director of Physical Plant Grover
Meetze, the few suggestions for strengthening security, including a larger campus force, more extensive lighting and even the issuance of
mace to the coeds proved to be infeasible at this time. “It looks as though we're just going to have
to wait until next fall before we get any real action,” Meier said.

This week the Senate also gave time to former SGA President Danny Clodfelter for a presentation concerning a new student
lobbying organization known as the National Student Lobby (NSL). Clodfelter gave a brief history of the organization which was conceived
in the California university system, pointing out its past effectiveness in state governments all over the country and in Washington
in lobbying for allowances beneficial to students directly. According to Clodfelter, NSL was in many states instrumental in attaining the
18-year-old vote and often has pushed, with much success, for such allotments of funds as education bills providing tuition money
for would-be college students in need of the aid. Unlike organizations such as National Student Association (NSA), NSL is legally
entitled.

Court Self-Selection Delayed As Terry Blasts Club Violation
By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

Despite a last-minute postponement due to certain “violations” in procedure, the choosing of eating clubs by the Freshman Class was
effected Wednesday night. Self-Selection, which was to have taken place on Tuesday, March 14, was delayed for one day when
it was discovered that one of the Patterson Court Fraternities had been guilty of a breach in the regulations. Bruce
Snyder, a spokesman for the Student Life Committee, although declining to name the House involved, did enumerate on the offense.
Every house on the Court was obligated to turn in to Dean of Students Will Terry a list of the
number of vacancies each had for Self-selection purposes. The House in questiongave a number of bids to members of the
Freshman Class over the Fall and Winter terms, a number of which were accepted. The house then proceeded to inform
Terry that they had revised their list of openings to match the number of freshmen whom they had already enlisted,
while encouraging the latter to discourage any of their classmates in selecting the house. This action was therefore thought to
be in violation of the Social System process by several people involved in the organization.

"Even though there are no hard and fast rules governing Fraternity Court rushing, they did violate the general intent of
it," said Snyder. Snyder went on to say that discrimination of this type might endanger the house's relations with the
Student Life Committee, which gives the eating clubs their residences on a year-to-year basis.

At a meeting with the representatives of the said house, on Wednesday morning Terry read a directive expressing the feelings
of the members of the Social System Council as well as his personal views on the matter: "The principle upon
which the Social System is based is on equal opportunity for every student on Patterson Court. I believe everyone understands
this, certainly every upperclassman understands it and the leaders of every fraternity and eating club do.

"The violation which was reported was contrary to the letter and the spirit of that principle (I strongly suspect that
there may have been other indiscretions but we have not been able to 'prove' them.), so self-selection was postponed until
the matter could be discussed with the offending parties in question.

"I am sorry for the inconvenience caused to the other groups, but it helps to illustrate the necessity of cooperation
from all groups on the court for the mutual benefit of all.

"To be a little more philosophical about the matter, it is strange how some individuals must feel superior to others
and how they must, in subtle or blatant ways, laud it over their fellows.

"Many people feel insecure if they are not on the inside of a secret or a group. It plagues Davidson
from the Court to the Hill. It is at the root of most of our problems in building the community.

"Back to the incident at hand. It looks like this kind of practice is going to necessitate more iron-clad rules
enforced by the Patterson Court Council.

"Perhaps the whole issue is that the change in the Social System was not radical enough."

In regard to Wednesday night’s proceedings, 211 freshmen self-selected with most receiving their first choice selections. Phi Delta Theta and
PAX houses were filled up first, registering 37 and 26 freshmen respectively, the Phi Delts getting the most freshmen of
all the houses. Emmanon got the fewest with only nine freshmen selecting their house.

OPEN 9-8 The Hub MONDAY - SATURDAY

Australia Needs Teachers Now! Sick of Hassling Smog, Unemployment? Growing Needs, All Subject Areas For Full Information Send $1 to:
Intl. Teachers Placement Bureau, P. O. Box 19007, Sacramento, Calif. 95819.

Whatever you want, we've got ARMY - NAVY STORE Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus Camping Equipment
Field Jackets — P. Coats Bell Bottom Jeans 170 N. Main Mooresville, N. C.

Phone 892-2111 PARKS REXALL DRUGS Cosmetics—Russell Stover Candies Complete Prescription Service—Sundries—Toiletries Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.—Wed 9 to 12—Sun.
9:30 to 10:30 Davidson, N. C. 131 N. Main St.

La Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti BEST PIZZA West of ITALY — PASTA — ICE STEAK — Salads
Roma Ristoranti Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576 1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

WCA, Chapman College, Box C11, Orange, Cal, 92666 SEND TODAY FOR FREE CATALOG ON YOUR SEMESTER AT SEA Academic Credit.
Financial aid available.
