Page Eight February 4, 1972 The Davidsonian

Three Hold Handball Lead; IMAC Cage Tourney Set

By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

The SPEs, Delts, and Mavericks each won three straight matches and jumped off to early leads in IMAC handball play.
Led by stellar performer Buzz Tarver, the SPEs topped the Taus 2-1, Watts II 2-1, and Pax I 3-0, and
stand alone atop League B.

The Delts and Mavericks are tied for first in League A, just ahead of Fanny & Mabel, which is 2-0
with one match unreported. The Delt team of Ross Manire, Jim Hankinson, Tom Traxler, and Frank McShane blanked both Emanon
and Pax 3 2-0, then edged the Pikas 2-1.

The Mavericks, a team composed of Bernard Scoggins, Russ Merritt, Kurt Geisinger, and Robert Brice, have yet to be scored
upon. They whitewashed Cannon II, SAE, and Emanon in succession. F&M, behind Lynn Wagner and Davis Beaston, shut out Cannon
II and Pax 3, with their third-round match against the E's not yet reported.

Behind the SPEs in League B, Watts II and Pax I are tied at 2-1, with the Klutzes and Betas
1-1, pending the outcome of their third-round match. Watts II (John Gabriel, Todd Chapman, Tom Kot, and Mitchell Stone) won
over the Klutzes by forfeit (in a game which may be replayed), and after losing to SPE, edged Pax 2
2-1. The Pax I team of Charlie Slagle and Steve Earp shut out the Betas and Taus before losing to
the SPEs.

Meanwhile, in IMAC basketball, Porter's knocked off Emanon I and the SPEs to emerge as the only unbeaten team after
regular-season play. Balanced scoring paced a 60-57 victory over previously-unbeaten Emanon, as Steve Culbertson and Tim Winter each tallied 16
and Frank Clark added 14 points. The winners surged to a 35-24 halftime bulge, and deadly free-throwing (18-19) held off
a late Emanon rally. Frank Folger pumped in 21 for the losers.

Clark keyed a second-half rally Monday as Porter's overcame a 37-31 SPE halftime lead to pull out a 75-70 triumph.
The 6-5 senior collected 17 of his game-high 27 points after the break, and John Porter 10 of his 18.
The IMAC's leading scorer, John Simms, canned 26 for SPE, but only 9 in the second half. Eddie Johnston tossed
in 19, 13 before halftime.

Porter's finished regular-season play 9-0, thus nailing down the top spot in next week's tournament. Emanon I finished second in
League C, at 8-1, after crushing the Married Men 93-53 Wednesday. The Taus (7-2) ran past the Gamms 79-66 and
Cannon II 90-66 as Mitchell Johnson totaled 56 points. The Taus closed in.

Wildcat Marksmen Travel To Wofford

The Wildcat rifle team takes aim at Wofford today, in search of their second victory of the season. After losses
to nationally-ranked powers Clemson and N. C. State, the 'Cat shooters are 1-5 on the year. Max Thomason fired a
253, second-high for the match, to pace the Davidson squad to its only win, Jan. 14 against Presbyterian. That victory
avenged an earlier setback at the hands of the Blue Hose.

Thomason has led the riflemen in each of their last three meets, firing 255 against Clemson and 252 versus N.
C. State. With the improvement of freshman shooters Garry Frank and Jim Fagan, plus the return to form of Larry
Crowell, who missed last year, the marksmen look for better results in the future. After the Wofford match, the team
again travels to Spartanburg, S. C., for the Western Carolinas Conference Invitational Feb. 12.third place, with the SPEs (6-3) taking
fourth. Steve Williams and Mike O’Malley combined for 38 points Monday as Keeter’s bounced Delt from the unbeaten ranks 55-51.
That left those teams, with the Betas, in League B. Keeter’s led all the way in the tight contest with
the Delts, weathering repeated Delt charges down the stretch. Mike Sikes led the losers with 15 points, as Keeter’s defense
shackled Greg Sikes, holding him to 11 points, 12 below his average. PAX I rallied to overcome Sentelle 65-63 Wednesday
to hold fourth place at 6-3. S4 wound up 5-4. The Betas trampled Cannon I 92-48 as Dennis Cholak and
Randy Ely poured in 29 and 24 points, respectively. Watts II (8-1) romped to two easy wins to finish in
a first-place tie with Fanny & Mabel in League A. Mark Rodgman gunned in 31 points in an 80-53 walk
past Emanon 3, and hit for 29 more as WII trampled the Pikas 96-59, raising his average to 25.3 ppg.
The E’s and Delt 2 tied for third with 7-2 marks, as each won twice last week. The Delts put
down Cannon II 52-41, despite 22 points by freshman Dan Henderson. Wednesday they dumped Emanon 53-42. The E's slipped past
the Pikas 64-55 behind Eldon Basham's 25 points. John Calhoun netted 28 for the defending champions, who finished 3-6. Monday
the E’s won over C2 48-31. Basham and the losers’ Henderson tied for game honors with 13 apiece. The tournament
begins Monday, with the top four teams in each league competing. The top four teams received first-round byes: Porter's, Watts
II, Beta, and Emanon. First-round pairings Monday are: Pax-SAE, Delt 2-Keeter’s, SPE-F&M, and Delt 1-ATO. The quarterfinals will be Wednesday,
with the semifinals Thursday and the championship slated for February 14.

The Davidson grapplers will host a four-team round-robin tournament against Southern Conference competition this weekend. The tournament will include the
non-scholarship teams in the Conference: VMI, The Citadel, Furman, and Davidson, and will help determine the best of what coach
Charlie Parker calls the “amateurs” of the league. ECU, William and Mary, and Appalachian all field large strong teams due
to a great number of wrestling scholarships, something the other teams have to do without. Grappler Sefton Stevens predicted a
good showing for the Wildcats, with the only great threat coming from The Citadel.

(Staff photo by Rodriguez)

MAVERICK MERRITT
Russ Merritt returns a shot in IMAC handball.

Matters Host Four SC Teams

“There’s no reason we can’t take the whole thing,” Stevens commented. The Matters posted their first loss of the season
last week, being downed by the University of North Carolina grapplers 28-14. The ‘Cats took their points off one pin
by Randy Webster, and two decisions in favor of John Scandling and Rusty Winchester. The loss to UNC put the
team’s record at 4-1. Today at 11:30 a.m. the ‘Cats will meet the Paladins of Furman University, and at 5:30
p.m. they will tackle The Citadel. Tomorrow they will meet the Keydets of VMI at 11 a.m.

GALLEY FISH CAMP
Fresh Fish-Steaks
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

The Coffee Cup
DEPOT ST.
6 a.m. - 7 p.m.
Breakfast served until 11:00 a.m.
Seafood—Sandwiches
Home-cooked vegetables

The Hub
OPEN 9-8
MONDAY - SATURDAY
Whatever you want, we’ve got

ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Field Jackets — P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans
170 N. Main
Mooresville, N.C.
