. 6 Coane ~ \ 4 = =— _ pees a. yt { { | pro sy | imeem Lid
eal. | 2 oo: ' 1 ( on 4 \ Ju. 1 | rr .— we ow ty -. saw
go wh! “re. Treen (od Library Featu By RICHARD ROMEYN Contributing Editor They may look old, dirty, and worthless in
their hogskin bindings, but many volumes in the Rare Book Collection may aptly be called museum pieces. If valued according
to ‘‘Books Prices Current,’’ a compilation of auction biddings, the entire collection would be worth close to half a million
dollars. Not all the books in the Rare Book Room are old, however, and age alone doesn’t necessarily determine a
book's worth. Director of the Library Chalmers Davidson, feels that a good rule of thumb for determining a rare book
is ‘that any first edition published in the United States before 1820 or in Europe before 1800 qualifies.” However, there
are many 18th-century volumes which are worth considerably less than many of the limited edition printings of the last decade.
A complete set of the large 45 volume ‘‘Dictionarie Rosionne de Sciences des Arts’’ may very well be the gem
of the collection. Published by the Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris in pre-Bastille days, the set was the world’s
first encyclopedia.

Art Center Presents Music Convocation By HUGH HENNIS Staff Writer The Cunningham Fine Arts Center will present the 13th Annual
Davidson College Sacred Music Convocation tonight and tomorrow night. The Queens College Choir, Davidson College Chorus, and Davidson Wind Ensemble
will present “Glory to God,” a cantata by Alan Hovhaness; and “Faith and the Sewing Circle,” a religious operetta by
Davidson’s Wilmer Welsh, in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church tonight at 8:15 p.m. At 2 p.m. Saturday, Marilyn Mason will
present in the college church an organ recital featuring two works using organ and electronic tape players. Also featured during
the convocation will be an opening address by Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the Honors College, on “The Puritan Politics
of Worship,” at 11 a.m. in Hodson Hall. Several workshops on the use of electronic music in church worship services
are also planned. Mason is professor of music and chairman of the organ department at the University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor. She received Bachelor and Master of Music degrees there and the Doctor of Sacred Music degree from Union Theological
Seminary, New York. On periodic leaves from the university, she has performed all over the world. Her special interest is
in performing works by living American composers, some of which she has commissioned. All concerts and workshops are open free
to all members of the Davidson community.

The college library acquired the complete set before Harvard did, but no one has any idea of where it came
from. Davidson conjectured that the encyclopedias may have been brought to the college in the 1840s by the Reverend Steven
Frontis, a French Professor who arrived from Europe. One of the collection's best-known possessions is a copy of the ‘Breeches
Bible’ which was printed in London in 1615. The nickname comes from its quaint translation of one verse in Genesis:
‘‘And they knew that they were naked and sewed fig leaves together to make themselves breeches.” The flyleaves of the
old Bible are inscribed with numerous wedding and birth descriptions, notations of bills of sale, sums, and shopping lists penned
by two generations of owners. Sylvammus Urban's ‘‘Gentleman's Magazine’’ was published biannually in London from 1731 to 1907. The Rare
Book Collection includes most of the issues. The magazine was similar to an almanac includingFeatured book reviews, poetry, death notices,
political events, and in ... Freshman Recess (Continued From Page 1) favorable. "I think basically it is a good idea
to have some time to think," said John Steely. "I would suggest that students could talk more with their major
professors or talk with professors who teach courses they would like to take. Mostly, all we have seen is our
faculty advisors," said Steely. "It is a good program and I thought meeting with faculty advisors was the better part
of the conference. The conference goes beyond the catalogue and helps you get a clearer view of what you need
for the future," said Bill McTavish. Many expressed their thankfulness for a break from school. "My first reaction is that
I was grateful for the break. It was psychologically, mentally and physically good for me to be released from the
pressures of classes," said Scott Lane. One complaint aired by some freshmen was that undecided majors had difficulty in planning
for the next four years. "I haven't decided on my major, so taking two days to plan for the next
four years is kind of general and not very beneficial for me," said Scott Reid. "It was helpful in planning
out the rest of this year," he said. One of the advisors involved in the two-day conference, Professor of History
Malcolm Partin, said, "I feel favorable to the idea of freshman conferences. It is good in theory and has given
freshmen a greater chance to think about their schedule under a relaxed situation. It is easier on advisors also, who
don't have to worry about all the other things that usually preoccupy them," Partin said. "It is important to try
and provide the best quality of advising possible and Conference Days are worth being tried as a means for providing
better counseling," concluded Dean Terry. Later years analyzed the stock market. The Samuel Lindsey collection of over 100 books about
Robert Burns was given to the library in 1950. It was described by Davidson as "one of our treasures." The
collection includes many scarce limited editions valued for their aesthetic value as well as monetary worth. A pigskin edition of
the complete works of the Roman philosopher Seneca published in Venice the year Columbus first sailed west, and a 1495
edition of Thomas Becket's "Vita et Processus" are highly valued incunabula (books printed before 1500), and two highlights of an
assortment of old classics. Other old books include an autographed 1668 copy of John Milton's "Paradise Lost," a first edition
set of Samuel Johnson's famous dictionaries, a book of fables called "Alciati's Emblematum" which was printed in 1544, and a
collection of valuable Golden Cockerel Press limited printings.

Friday, November 10
Saturday, November 11
6 p.m. Movie:
8 p.m. Wine Tasting
9:45 p.m.

Tuesday, November 14
8 p.m. Wine Tasting

Wednesday, November 15
8 p.m. Wine Tasting

Thursday, November 16
7 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room "The Andromeda Strain"
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital: College Church Marilyn Mason
9 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room "The Andromeda Strain"

Friday, November 17
8 p.m. Concert: John Laudermilk Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Movie: Morrison Room "The Andromeda Strain"

Monday, November 13
All week Art Exhibit: Stowe Galleries
1:20 p.m. Christian Fellowship
Wednesday Afternoon Chowder Society
8 p.m. Hungry d: Steve Baron
8 p.m. Community Folk Mass
8 p.m. Hungry d: Steve Baron
8 p.m. Movie: "Hotel"
8 p.m. Movie: "Hotel"
8 p.m. Hungry d: Steve Baron

Rare Museum Works
Every so often a book of moderate value will be unearthed in the stacks and added to the collection, but
most of the books in the Rare Book Room were gifts to the college. The library has no rare book
fund in its budget, though it will sometimes purchase volumes to complete a set it already owns. Davidson called rare
books "a good investment, and status symbol" adding that they have great scholarly and aesthetic appeal as well. In 1964
C. Alphonse Smith gave his winnings from the Irish sweepstakes to provide for glass cases, shelves, air conditioners, etc., for
the collection. Few students ever use the room and many students when questioned admitted they have no idea who has
the key, (the key can be obtained from anyone on the library staff.) Davidson suggested that the room's use might
be increased if faculty called attention to rare book material related to their courses.

Morrison Room
Martin Room
Morrison Room
Martin Room
