Outside Perspective
By LEX VEAZEY

Students Ask to Attend Meetings

Students at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., recently met with the college’s faculty Steering Committee and discussed three proposals they
had drawn up regarding increased student participation in college government. The proposals read: (1) All students should be allowed to
attend the faculty meetings. (2) Upon recognition of the chair, students should be permitted to speak at the meetings. (3)
A complete record of the minutes should be published after each meeting.

The Steering Committee met with the students to persuade them that their proposals would stand little chance of passing a
faculty vote. All past attempts to get students into faculty meetings have failed. Motions on this subject in November of
1971 and in January of 1972 were both overwhelmingly defeated. At this last meeting, the Steering Committee said that, regardless
of its opinion on the proposals, they would be presented to the general faculty meeting if the students presenting them
still wanted them to be presented. However, the students decided to withdraw their proposals because of the unfavorable “political climate”
they feel now exists at the faculty meetings on the question of whether to allow students to attend and speak
at them.

Clemson Organizes Voting Service

The student government at Clemson University has organized the university’s first service for student absentee voters. The program is designed
to enable resident student voters to vote on campus in the upcoming national election with as little red tape involved
as possible. Student government officials, notary publics, and typists will help the student fill out a ballot request form which
will be sent to the voter’s home county. The absentee voter then will receive a voting ballot in the mail
within about seven days.

P.E. No Longer Mandatory

Mississippi State University recently abolished mandatory physical education. Coach Paul Gregory, head of the physical education department, said he was
not shocked over the outcome. “Physical education is purely a service of the University to the students,” he commented. Mississippi
State decided to make P.E. a voluntary, three-hour course and award credit like any other course. “Those going out for
P.E. will receive better instruction and opportunities to participate,” Gregory said. “The course will be handled like any other class,
academically speaking. The student will be able to choose his particular sport.”

Coed Dislikes Male Chauvinist Cartoon

To the Editor:

I, for one, would appreciate being treated as such. I could not believe my eyes when I turned to the
editorial page of THE DAVIDSONIAN (22 September p. 4) this morning and saw your cartoon of the “Davidson woman.” It
is undoubtedly one of the most blatant examples of male chauvinism I have seen in a long time. Not only
is the cartoon sexist, but I also consider it downright degrading.

Kathy Huntly ’75
Davidson College

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters placed in the DAVIDSONIAN letters box on the first
floor of Chambers by 6 p.m. Monday will ordinarily be printed that week. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.
Letters must be typed, and they cannot exceed 300 words in length.

The Davidsonian
“CEPTION III”
September 29, 1972
Page Five

Vilas Says Paintings Primarily About Paint

A Review By GARY GARVIN
Staff Writer

AnybodyWho thinks that the campus is isolated from the ‘outside world’ probably hasn't seen the Sally Vilas exhibit in the
Stowe Gallery. An instructor of studio art at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Miss Vilas’s paintings are
most readily characterized by her technique of application of paint - the relationship established between thick paint poured directly onto
the canvas and flat subtle stains on unprimed canvas. This is why she says her works are ‘primarily about paint.’
These thick statements flow over and control the canvas in rich undulations and are at odds with one another. The
glossy surface is contrasted against the flat, the amorphic shape against the geometric, and the transparent against the opaque. The
flat stains are developed by openings and gaps in the thick forms, by an overlapping of these forms, and even
by actual cracks in the paint. In several of her works, the stain is qualified by a thick, transparent covering.
Depth is more a physical than imaginary phenomenon. Beyond this general approach, her works vary in treatment of subject matter.
For the most part, they are formal abstract compositions based on hard line geometric patterns governed by the free-flowing thick
forms, as in ‘Prologomenon’ or ‘2 Up 3 Down.’ In her ‘Baroque Landscape,’ the demands made by the large rigid
white margins force the forms off the canvas into actual space. The battle in ‘Night’s Best’ is fought within the
margins by an interaction of aggressive forms and pure contrasting forms. She uses a more representational approach in other works
with varying effects. In ‘Moon Form,’ a large circular form cast in a pallid blue predominates, and it is encircled
by a loose red halo, making for a mystical lunar reminiscence. In a lighter mood, Miss Vilas jostles our palate
by strings of glossy white and yellow over a flat brown and white hard line patterned background in a work
called ‘Eggs and Birch.’ Receiving both her B.F.A. and M.F.A. at the University of North Carolina, Miss Vilas had previously
studied at the Art Students League in Woodstock, N.Y. Miss Vilas proves herself to be an able manipulator of paint.
See the show and give your aesthetic sensitivities a workout. The show closes October 6.

Entertainment

‘Applause’ comes to Ovens Auditorium at 8 p.m. next Sunday. Tickets are $6, $7, and $8. ‘Anniversary Waltz’ continues at
the Charlotte Little Theatre with performances tonight, tomorrow, and Oct. 5, 6, and 7 at 8:30 p.m. and a Sunday
matinee Oct. 1 at 2:30 p.m. Student tickets are $1. ‘Cezanne’ will continue the ‘Pioneers of Modern Painting’ film series
with showings Sunday and Monday nights at 8:15 p.m. in Dana Auditorium at Queens College. This is a sequel to
Kenneth Clark's ‘Civilization’ series. There is no admission charge. ‘Zatoichi's Cane Sword’ begins the Kino Fine Film series this Sunday
night at 8 p.m. in the Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum of Art.

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

The Charlotte Symphony will present its first concert of the year Wednesday night at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. They
will play Beethoven, Tchaikovsky, and Bloch. Student tickets are $1.50. ‘Yes’ appears in concert Tuesday night at 8 p.m. in
the Charlotte Coliseum. Tickets are $4, $5, and $6. ‘Don't Drink the Water’ premieres at the Pineville Dinner Theatre Tuesday
night. The buffet opens at 7 p.m. with the curtain rising at 8:30. Tuesday and Wednesday feature a special opening
night price of $6.50. The play will continue through Oct. 29 with regular prices of $7 to $10 in effect.
