HOWARD RAMAGLI
October 6, 1972
Page Five
The Davidsonian

Black Student Number Remains Low

Last year Howard Ramagli conducted “A Study of the Attitudes and Procedures Concerning the Black Experience at Davidson College.” This
fall he presented his findings to the faculty, and we have asked him to write a commentary on his study.
A copy of his manuscript can be found in the library's Davidsoniana Room.

On May 5, 1972, the Davidson College Trustees approved a plan for coeducation. In 1968, the Spencer commission stated affirmatively
that Davidson did not discriminate in admissions on the basis of race, color, or creed. In September 1972, three months
after the approval of coeducation, Davidson has enrolled 57 coeds and employed a female admissions counselor. In September 1972, some
four years after the Spencer Commission's resolution, Davidson has enrolled 21 black students and has just recently employed a black
admissions counselor. Why?

This question was put to me by the black upperclassmen as they returned to begin a new year. I had
no concrete answer to give them. I could quote figures from an attitude study which found positive attitudes toward blacks
on the part of faculty, students, and administration. I could have cited the problems that Davidson encounters recruiting high caliber
black students who could and probably would go to schools such as Harvard, Yale, Howard, and Fisk. I could have
discussed studies which pointed out the social hardships a black student faces when attending a predominantly white institution. But these
students did not need to be told of these things. They were part of these experiences. We had hashed over
these points before last year. Perhaps they were hoping that this year it would be different.

Coed Cartoon Brings Reply; Nixon’s Policies Analyzed

To The Editor:
I had originally written, in response to Ms. Huntly’s succinct scathing article. However, after discussing this matter with several other
students, I decided that such a reply would only widen the gap that apparently lies between her and the majority
of Davidson students. I came to the hopeful conclusion that her comments, (and strong they were indeed) rested entirely upon
ignorance of last year's slogans and cartoon, namely the one featuring a virile male Wild-Cat Student with a caption reading
“A Davidson Man needs no Introduction.” I hope she will agree that last week's complementary cartoon, when viewed in this
light, held no chauvinistic overtones or disrespect for our new coeds. We've worked hard to make women a part of
this institution. Hopefully, their years here will be most profitable as well as enjoyable. All we ask is an equal
amount of understanding.
John T. McElveen Jr. ‘74
Davidson College

To the Editor:
I could not believe my eyes when I turned to the editorial page of The Davidsonian (22 September p.4) last
week and saw the cartoon of the “Davidson Woman.” It is undoubtedly one of the most blatant examples of human
chauvinism I have seen in a long time. Not only is the cartoon humanist, but I also consider it downright
degrading to felines everywhere. The Davidson man is known for his intellectual capabilities rather than his physique. I am only
asking that the same treatment be given to the cats of this world. Why is it then that cats in
your paper are pictured with human qualities? And you even have the nerve to portray the catlike figure as female
when everyone knows that the female is the inferior sex! Sir, you are a cat owner's cad, a leopard’s looby,
and a puma’s petunia. My cat is as intelligent as any old woman here at Davidson and I would appreciate
your treating him as such. Quit your pussyfootin’.
David Woolbright '73
Davidson College

To The Editor:
Rejoice, all red-blooded American students who valiantly supported our great President against the decadent leftist freaks for McGovern. It was
a patriotic showing for the red, white, and blue compared to the embarrassing vote of the men who profess to
be our educators and superiors. It is a little disappointing to note that we didn't quite reach the national poll
percentage of 61 percent for our President, but we'll get another chance in a few weeks to redeem this slip.
Meanwhile, men, we must stand firm on our well-founded convictions and reinstate our man, ‘King Richard.” Too many of us
are “tricked” into believing the deceiving lies and contradictions inherent in McGovern propaganda (his program). Why should our hard-working fathers
have to start paying taxes to support 6 percent of the labor force for sitting on their asses? They'll never
go to work if they get paid for doing nothing. If the lazy people, mainlyblack, would just get ambitious and
do some work, they could move out of the slums. Every man has a chance to move up in the
free-enterprise system, if he would only put his mind to it. After all, if organized labor is satisfied with present
wage and price control, why should we complain? You've got to admit, there's nothing wrong with America: it's a lot
better than Communism. Remember, "I'd rather be dead than go red!" Be glad we have the right to vote. It's
our duty to democracy to be informed and intelligent voters. It is important to keep bombing the hell out of
those Commie-Gooks in North Vietnam to keep the Thieu Regime in power so the South Vietnamese people can continue to
live in freedom and democracy. Don’t believe a word about the "Thieu dictatorship" or dike-bombing, or hospital bombing, or anti-personnel
bombs, or that 200,000 Americans are stationed just outside of South Vietnam. You know how reliable army figures usually are.
The important thing to remember is: Nixon's ending the war and he said so. And in 1968 he said: “Any
President who has had four years to end the war and failed, does not deserve another chance.” Men, we've got
to believe in our President, he knows what he's doing. Let’s talk some sense into these misguided radicals. Just don't
listen to their phony, idealistic, screwed-up economics. It's our duty to God and our country to keep America a land
of the Free and home of the Brave with Liberty and Justice for All! McGovern... for the people. Think about
it. Care about it. If you don't...who will?

Mike Ernst '73
Davidson College

Perhaps they were hoping that they would not have to experience the alienation which they felt last year. Or maybe
they are hoping that an attempt would be made to solve those problems of black social alienation which they will
have to experience for four years. Last year’s study of the black experience at Davidson cannot answer these inquiries. The
study is perhaps an exercise in academic frustration, written by a white (and the problems that accompany being white). This
study presents and explores the problems that the black student faces at Davidson. It presents possible solutions to these problems,
but these solutions do not cover all of the possibilities available to the college to help its black students.

The three major areas that the study encompasses are admissions, curriculum, and social life. Social life was the most discussed
of the three areas, and the most crucial in the eyes of the black students. It is in the social
life of the college that the black students seem to feel the most alienation. Recommendations for solutions to the black
student's problems have come from the study and from the Black Student Coalition. How soon these recommendations will be acted
on is not known. However, any action the college may take at this point could be nullified by the present
state of affairs that exists between the black students and the security force. The study showed on a paper and
pencil test, positive attitudes toward blacks. Actions are more telling of true racial climate, and the present college actions are
not very positive. From all appearances, there is an underlying assumption that all blacks on campus are here to cause
trouble. Thus we must stop every black to ensure that he is an official member of the college community. Then
to assure that there are no more mix-ups, we have the black students meet with the security force so that
we can point out the blacks who are our "good niggers." If white students have also been stopped by the
security people, would it not be as logical to have the security people meet the white students? Or does Davidson
have two classes of students?

Davidson has better solutions to the problems of the black students. They are perhaps lost on the endless list of
priorities for improving the college. Davidson's black students are told one thing and experience another. Is this the kind of
solution that Davidson has to offer these students? We need to resurrect these solutions and put them into action. If
we don't, we face an even more monumental task of recruiting black students, students who will hear that Davidson has
yet to put into action the commitment that the Spencer Commission made four years ago.

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters placed in the DAVIDSONIAN letters box on the first
floor of Chambers by 6 p.m. Monday will ordinarily be printed that week. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.
Letters must be typed, and they cannot exceed 300 words in length.
