Page Eight GIDC EID IA January 14, 1972

Up ’n’ Coming
Love Auditorium Morrison Room Hodson Hall
Love Auditorium Hodson Hall
Saturday, January 15
10 p.m. Concert: Don Crawford
Sunday, January 16
9 p.m. Open End: Sophomore SGA Candidates
Wednesday, January 19
7:30 p.m. Major Drama Production: Ibsen's ‘Ghosts’
Thursday, January 20
8 p.m. Fine Film: ‘The Passion of Joan of Arc’
8:15 p.m. Major Drama Production: Ibsen's ‘Ghosts’

Trustees Review Governance
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

The Trustee Governance Committee began deliberations last Friday on the entire governance structure. The committee agreed that all college documents including the Faculty Constitution, the Revised Trustee By-laws, and the Student Government Association Constitution should be examined.

The Committee passed a motion saying it will now begin discussions “with a view towards determining the major areas of decision-making and toward establishing the prerogatives and responsibilities within those areas of the various constituencies of the college (students, faculty, administration, and trustees).” These constituent groups will be asked “to review and make recommendations” in respect of any reports submitted by the Governance Committee to the Board of Trustees.

The committee also listed several governance problems which should be discussed in subsequent meetings.
1. Communication and misunderstanding among the various groups;
2. Exclusion of students from the decision-making process;
3. Concern for the stability of the current system particularly relative to the Faculty Constitution, and interest in its as yet unactualized potential;
4. Present prerogatives of the various groups;
5. Lack of faith in the present system, particularly in the case of students who must petition the official group with which it is in conflict, with no third-party appeal;
6. After-the-fact consultation with the various groups;
7. Confusion on the interrelationship of authority, and what bodies make what decisions;
8. Secrecy in policy-making;
9. Non-academic personnel in the decision-making process;
10. The question of Davidson College as a separate and unique governing unit and/or as a part of a national trend in college governance.

Clodfelter Reviews (Continued From Page 1)

Student movements, institutionalized or ad hoc, depend on access to information. How can you argue with the financial officers of the college about coeducation when you can't put your hands on the financial reports of the college? And so on. This problem was brought home to me Monday night in the question and answer session with the candidates: I was struck by the low level of knowledge manifested in many of the questions. Students must challenge the college on the basis of their knowledge. Yet the spoken and unspoken restrictions on information and the difficulty of communicating with the entire student body when there are no longer any common meetings of the entire community make this almost impossible.

Student government in the last year was not successful with this perennial problem. For those students who continue to work actively in campus affairs, the challenge to the policy of “gentlemanly secrecy in the best interests of the institution” must be a daily responsibility. I do not believe for one minute that the college could defend its position on coeducation if the administration daily had to confront student after student asking pressing, embarrassing questions. The students elected to office cannot accomplish this alone; it is the responsibility of everyone here. If student government has failed, then so have we all. This is what is meant when the student body constitution says that the SGA is the entire student body and not just the senate and officers.

Looking to the immediate future, I think there will be two issues of overriding importance in the next year. Coeducation is clearly one of these; the task will be to force the college to live up to commitments of long standing, and this is where individual support for student, faculty, and administrative efforts to move the issue off dead center.will be most important. But in the long run, the more bitter and acrimonious struggle will take place over governance. Who decides who decides? And who will surrender power and who will gain? These are the questions that strike at the bottom of all others, and they will be the most difficult to resolve since they affect basic institutional relationships among all the groups on campus. The danger is that student demands for greater participation in decision-making will be too easily surrendered: the corresponding temptation will be to deny the validity of faculty, administration, and trustee roles in the governance of the college. We are only beginning to work our way out of this tangle. So that’s it.

DEAL'S RESTAURANT AND GRILL
663-4141
4 Miles North of Davidson
Steaks — Seafood — Plate Lunches
Sandwiches
6 a.m. ’til Midnight
Closed Monday
Phone 376-2576

Rendezvous in Charlotte at
La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

Summer, it appears to be a reaction to financial and educational problems rather than a preventative to forestall such problems. Comprehensive fee is a strong preventative to the revival of fraternities, but the fraternities are near final departure anyway. The college appears to be involved in a case of overkill. The senate communicated seven recommendations on comprehensive fee to the administration and one, and only one, meeting has been held. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, as chairman of the group, has not called another meeting to inform students of the progress the administration has made on the several proposals they accepted.

Recently the school has made overtures towards coeducation. At least there is a lot of noise, and it's about time. All the Ivy League schools are either coed or have sister schools. Perhaps our “brethren” to the northeast have once again surpassed us. That Davidson tends to react to problems in lieu of anticipation is further seen by the decision to “temporarily” house the Union, or rather part of the Union, or rather still, the offices of the Union administrators, in the Guest House. I wonder if the old gymnasium was to temporarily house the Union. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. will have to think very hard and very long about building a new Union very soon, or somehow face the present social inadequacies as they intensify in the future. Davidson is hardly a dynamic college, it merely moves the old things around in novel configurations.

The college has already begun propagating “the union is not a building, it is an idea” in their material to prospective students. Yet at other schools, unions are certainly buildings where activities are organized and focused. The administration tells students that the next few years will be ones of transition and the problems to be endured by this generation of students must be faced sometime. It is unfortunate that the class of 1974 will spend half its time at Davidson without a union building and will be expected to put up with the inconvenience and annoyance of construction for two years without any of the benefits of the new library. The class of ‘75 and probably that of ‘76 will not see a new union building either, due to lack of planning by the college. The present student body is paying the price for future students. This is normal as past students have sacrificed for us. But the student at Davidson College in the years '71-74 is also paying for the inexcusable lack of positive planning in the past. This period of transition the students must endure can be considerably brightened by positive evidence of progressive planning in areas which are almost upon us. Changing times for students should also be changing times for faculty and administration. Planning and implementation of such projects as the completion of the Blue Sky curriculum, coeducation, and the construction of a new union building should be thought about now. The need is recognized now. Financial, educational, and social problems cannot be met with stop-gap measures such as the comprehensive fee. The only adequate approach is through foresight.

MASOCHIST? See your work butchered: Be a Davidsonian photographer. Contact Bill Barnes in the Union.

SALE Continues At
THE RED HANGER
Plenty of Bargains This Week
All LEE FLARES Are 20% Off
Corduroy and Jeans
THE RED HANGER
Phone 892-7561
Davidson, N.C.