F 4 (Staff Photos by Bill Barnes)

IN THE LIMELIGHT
Martin jumps in the race for Congress.

Houchen’s Paintings Lack Dominance Of Control
A REVIEW By M. FINLEY TAYLOR
Staff Writer

Douglas Houchens, Associate Professor of Fine Arts, presents a small show evident of his oneness of approach. This singularity of
style develops through his use of emotional line and sensitive color application and gives the works an indefinite, almost remote
kind of abstraction. On going closer to the canvasses, the first recognized form vanishes in the moving lines and small
color splashes.

The development from Houchens' photographs of the landscape and terrain of Mallorca (attached with the paintings) shows his expressionism coming
through a new approach to light. Houchens was forced to work from slides due to poor weather conditions and insufficient
light most of the year in Deva (the community in which he and his family lived). This use of illuminated
slides posed new and intense approaches to light and its ambiguous effects. From this resulted abstractions of lightness, a quality
of translucency.

Landscape, seascape, perspective drawings, drawings of his children, and geranium plants are the subject matter. The sensitiveness expressed developed as
these subjects became of extreme importance in the quiet, rather “primitive” life on the island. The painting “Torrente” is representative
of all Houchens’ objectives. The Torrente is a stream in the village of Deva where the people threw their garbage.
This subject relates on an emotional basis. In addition to the feeling, the “fluid ambiguity” in the movement of water,
the movement of the images, and the extreme effort of light throughout the depth of the stream imply a sensitiveness
already present in Nature. Houchens said he found in this the richest of abstract qualities. In his painting of Torrente,
the artist tries to capture its layered abstractness, its play of the natural light, and the feeling aroused by the
grotesque scene. An emotionalism results that is seen in all of Houchens’ works.

Houchens' work is loose and tends to lack a dominance of control. From the Mallorcan experience, he found a new
approach to light and discovered a different sensitivity, but overall he lacks a constructiveness within the single work which gives
it a dynamic quality necessary for the observer. One can understand his work and appreciate the experience from which it
is taken, but beyond that, it carries little impression.

The Davidsonian
January 7, 1972
Page Three

Martin Seeks Election To House Of Representatives
By TODD EADES
Staff Writer

After three terms as Mecklenburg County Commissioner, James G. Martin is running for the United States House of Representatives. Associate
Professor of Chemistry Martin announced his candidacy for the Ninth District seat on December 20. He was the first to
declare his intentions and will probably be the only Republican to do so. Next fall, instead of entering his twelfth
year of teaching chemistry at Davidson, he will campaign. Martin has received a leave of absence from the school for
the fall term and met what he called “a fair response from the administration.” If elected, he will be the
second Davidson graduate to serve in Congress.

Martin stated that being a college professor would not be a major factor in his campaign. He will emphasize his
experience in county government and attempt to establish his own philosophical position. He regards himself as right of center.ter, as
a “moderate conservative.” He stated four basic campaign themes in his formal announcement for candidacy. They are the need for
emphasis on local government, a practical approach to environmental problems, a pledge to continue the personal service performed for congressional
constituents, and the value of a strong two-party system of government. Martin said that 18-21 year olds and especially college
students will be a valuable part of the campaign. There will be a major effort to organize these voters, especially
since new and young voter registration in Charlotte has been so poor.

It would be good to have a professional scientist in Congress, Martin believes. He supports President Nixon on his Vietnam
policy of phased withdrawal. He said he also supported Presidents Kennedy and Johnson in their Vietnam policies, but that the
war was prolonged too long. He hesitantly abides with Nixon’s trip to China out of deference to the Presidential Office.
But he did not like to see Taiwan expelled from the United Nations.

Before deciding to run, Martin had to answer the personal question of changing professions, especially to a potentially unstable political
one. He feels if he serves in Congress for two years he would probably return to teaching, but that four
years or more would be too great a separation.

A problem that Republican Martin faces is the Presidential Primary in North Carolina this spring. This will be the state’s
first Presidential Primary and it will probably be dominated by the Democratic candidates. Many new voters might register as Democrats
to enable them to vote in the Democratic Primary.

Asked whether President Nixon’s campaign will affect his own, Martin said that the President's popularity is reflected in every congressional
race, and that if the President is popular it would probably have a good coattail effect. Martin is the only
Republican who has announced. Democrat Jim Beatty is seeking the Democratic nomination for the same seat.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

If you crooned with the early Elvis Presley (“Love Me Tender”) ... let your radio blare out “So Rare” Sunday
night on the eastern seaboard, wore white bucks, bobby socks ... bought all the Lettermen, Association, and Vogues .... and
today understand why WBT Radio's “Original Sunday Night Hall of Fame” is such a hit. Nostalgia and literature, and WBT
now invades the world of music, as far back as 1950. Mike Ivers, Music Director of WBT, hosts the five-hour
show ... and he does far more than play records. He relates other interesting tidbits concerning style, era, etc. Mike
receives an avalanche of mail from up and down the eastern seaboard filled with requests for “Special Favorites”. You might
say that WBT Radio has become a thing of the past... at least for five hours a week.
