Page Six October 27, 1972 The Davidsonian

Outside Perspective By LEX VEAZEY

UNC Poll Gives Nixon Lead

A recent poll taken at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill indicated that Nixon would carry the campus student vote by eight percentage points over George McGovern if the November general election were held today. The telephone poll was taken of 322 UNC students, whose names were picked at random from a computer list of all UNC students. Of those who responded, Nixon received 48.9 percent of the votes, and McGovern received 40.9 percent. Slightly over nine percent of the students were undecided.

Most Nixon supporters said they did not like the way McGovern kept changing his mind or his policies. Others said they supported Nixon because he had the most experience. Nixon received criticism from McGovern supporters for his Vietnam policy.

In other results from the poll, Democrats were far ahead in local and state elections. In the U.S. Senate race, Nick Galifianakis received 60.4 percent while 17.8 percent said they would vote for Jesse Helms. Undecided students numbered 21.8 percent. In the governor’s race, Skipper Bowles received 52 percent of the votes while Jim Holshouser received 25 percent. Undecided students numbered 23 percent.

HEW Announces Job-Bias Rules

The Office for Civil Rights, a unit of HEW, has issued guidelines requiring colleges and universities to set either numerical or percentage goals for hiring women and minorities if the colleges employ fewer people from those groups than “would reasonably be expected by their availability.” While noting that the government does not require colleges to hire or promote any unqualified people, the guidelines also say: “Establishing goals should be coupled with the adoption of genuine and effective techniques and procedures to locate qualified members of groups which have previously been denied opportunities for employment or advancement.”

HALF-CENTURY ON CAMPUS (Staff photo by Davis)

Frank Reed (r.) has fond memories of Davidson in the old days.

Reed Brothers Notice Changes After 50 Years On Campus

By JIM PAULSEN Staff Writer

As part of that little-known group of workers who keep the college plant going, two brothers, Frank and Gabe Reed, together have given almost 100 years of service to Davidson College. Frank Reed, who works in the Maintenance Department, will have been with Davidson College for 50 years as of Nov. 18. He came to Davidson College in 1922. “The college today is nothing like it was then,” he recalled. “They only had about 350 students when I first came. You used to get acquainted with the students then, ‘cause they mostly stayed on campus all the time,” said Frank Reed.

Coming to Davidson from the Mooresville area, he at one time lived on campus. “They had some rooms for the maintenance people in the area where Richardson is now,” he said. Frank Reed is 85 and he attributes his longevity to the fact that he is always going somewhere or doing something. He has outlived two wives. “To stay well you got to have a lot of exercise, and no smoking or drinking,” said Reed. His future plans are to keep on working “till they run me off.” “The college has been good to me. There were times when you thought you weren't getting what you should, but it all worked out. I had two operations not long ago and they let me keep right on working,” Reed said.

A few years after being at the college, Frank Reed recommended to his brother, Gabe, that he come here to work. Gabe Reed has now been with the college in different capacities for 47 years. Gabe Reed came to the college in 1925 and started working in the college laundry and then later worked in the heating plant. Although now retired, Gabe Reed still works in the shop receiving delivered goods and taking care of other jobs. He too says that the college has changed a great deal. “The college has changed but the students have pretty much remained the same. Of course, the school is a little less strict than it had been before.”

Government Finances Work-Study Jobs

By TODD EADES Contributing Editor

The concept of the work-study program is to provide students employment to help defray the cost of their education and to help meet the employment needs of the college. Campus student employment, commonly referred to as work-study, is technically divided into two areas according to funding sources. A federal work-study program is funded by the government and the college in an 80 percent to 20 percent ratio. Since the money received from Washington is less than the total need of students, the collegeoffers additional employment for which it pays the entire amount. For this academic year, the college has received $37,323 from the government. As part of this federal program, the college will add about $9,300 to this to make a total of approximately $46,600 for federal work-study jobs. However, $54,640 has been awarded for work-study jobs because not all money awarded to a student is actually earned by him. Last year, 77 percent of money awarded for student employment was actually earned. This year, a figure of 80 percent is being used to estimate the amount of money which will actually be earned by students. This process allows the college to be absolutely certain of spending all the money from the government, which is ‘free’ money for the school since they do not have to pay for it. If students work over the 80 percent predicted, the school guarantees to make up the difference.

The total student financial need to be met by employment this year is approximately $70,000. As the total amount provided by federal sources for work-study is less than this, the college offers $23,420 in employment over and above the $9,300 it contributes to the federal work-study program. The college bears the total cost of this program. Since only about 80 percent of all employment monies are earned, about $51,640 will actually be earned by students in campus employment this year. There are 139 federal work-study jobs this year on campus and 68 college-provided jobs. These jobs are distributed into 39 different areas of employment. The library rates the greatest number, 45, and the gymnasium employs 29 students.

According to William S. Miller, Assistant Director of Admissions and Financial Aid, all work-study and college jobs are awarded on the basis of financial need as determined by the Parents Confidential Statement. Job assignments are made by Miller. He asks the job supervisors in the 39 areas how many students they will need, how many hours of work they need, and what the duties of the job are. From this information, students are assigned jobs according to two criteria: student preference and college need. Student preference includes scheduling problems and personal job preferences, while college need dictates what jobs need to be filled first. Miller said that upperclassmen usually get their first, second, or third choice, while freshmen normally get assigned wherever they are most needed.

Miller stresses the flexibility of the program in accommodating student schedules and college needs. Students can work split shifts in two areas so work can be distributed where it is needed, although most supervisors prefer that a student work only for them. "People and money are pretty effectively utilized," said Miller. "Some departments are short of their desired number, but no one is drastically short."

Employment is usually part of a package of financial assistance including scholarships and loans. This is a part of the philosophy of work-study that a student should earn part of his financial aid. Although the federal guidelines allow 15 hours of work per week, Davidson students average 10 hours since the academic workload here is probably more difficult than at other schools. Miller said that usually only seven or eight hours per week is actually worked.

In contrast to many schools, none of Davidson's jobs are in the community. This is because the employment needs of the college cannot be met due to lack of money, Miller said. The future of the work-study program looks strong, said Miller. The amount of money awarded to Davidson from Washington will probably go higher and no cuts in appropriations from the college are anticipated. "There seems to be an infinite commitment from the college on this," Miller stated.

There is a problem for next year's work-study program, though. Congress has recessed without making the appropriation for next year, which places the college in the difficult position of not knowing how much money they will have to work with. This could result in notification of jobs and money figures later in the summer than usual. This year, Davidson requested $85,000 from the government for work-study and received less than half. The system for allocating these monies is weighted in favor of schools with more lower-income family students.

For those students who do not qualify for work-study jobs, Miller says there is more employment in the nearby area for students than last year. He encourages students seeking jobs to contact him. He has information about available jobs and maintains a bulletin board of job opportunities outside the Admissions Office on the first floor of Chambers.