Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING." —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR NOVEMBER 3, 1972

Foreign Study Examined

Foreign study has traditionally been a strong drawing card for Davidson with college-sponsored programs in France and Germany. It is
meritorious that the college is moving into other areas of off-campus study and experience, but new programs cannot be allowed
to divert attention from close, rigorous, and continuing evaluation of these “bread and butter” study programs.

It is good to see that the college is not paying the expense of moving a professor and his family
to Germany for a year to advise only 15 students, but is instead using a resident German as advisor. Such
use of native skill not only saves money but provides more culturalization for the students since they will not have
an American professor to rely on. The college will certainly want to investigate using resident native advisors in both programs
next year. It seems a waste of money and teaching resources to send a professor abroad each year with only
fifteen or twenty students under his care.

The registration of students in France as regular rather than auditing students will hopefully help tighten up programs which have
seemed lax in the past. No student should be allowed to receive college credit for nine courses if he simply
spends a year sightseeing through Europe, no matter how “broadening” that experience may be.

The problem of credit also requires careful attention. Credit awards should be defined more distinctly. No student should be expected
to spend a year abroad on a college-sponsored program without some assurance that the time, money, and effort expended will
net at least equal credit as that received by peers at home. Demand expectations and credit assignment should go hand
in hand to make the program both fairer and more attractive to students.

Suggestions have been made that the college consider a change in the programs to allow sophomores to participate in addition
to, or in place of, juniors. The decision cannot, presumably, be unilateral on Davidson’s part since European universities usually expect
American students to have two years of college before attending classes in Europe. But if the college can obtain agreement
from its European counterparts, it would seem wise to institute Sophomore Year Abroad either instead of or in addition to
Junior Year Abroad. Study during sophomore year would ease some of the difficulties caused by major requirements, such as Comprehensive
Examinations and course prerequisites. Perhaps students who are reluctant to leave the campus and forfeit opportunities for elected office would
then have an avenue for foreign study open to them. And study abroad might serve the most useful purpose of
orienting the student to his total world and so aiding him in career decisions.

Sex Facts And Fantasy

Beginning with this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN will periodically run the column “Elephants and Butterflies,” written by Lana Starnes and Dr.
Takey Crist, assistant professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine. We include this
column in the paper not to promote sexual promiscuity, but to encourage an understanding of human sexuality and responsible sexual
behavior.

Most young people know what causes pregnancy, and most sexually active couples do not wish to become parents prematurely. But
hall counselors and student advisors have found that many students know little about their own bodies and almost nothing about
how to keep these bodies from getting pregnant. We hope that an honest and frank discussion of accurate sex information
will separate fantasy from fact for the students here.

ALAN BARAGONA

Moomaw Saves Numb Elroy

Whispers, shuddering in the northern winds, rumors of ill intent, forgotten injury: “Out of the night that covers me...” They
whirl around us in the postnight mist that gives them substance as we trek across Davidson for the reunion. Waiting
circled about Numb Elroy's font, 4 a.m. approaching, we peer squint-eyed toward the chambers of the Phantom Zone and think
on the fate of the Masked Nid, like so many others sapped of his existence by King Kudzu. We hear
his airy cries from the shadows: “I'm a senior! Seemefeelme! I'm sure I remember having existed. I'm a senior! Touchmehealme!”
And a laugh like the rustle of leaves. But something unsettling to postnight, a new voice amid the lost: “Out
of the night...” From where? “...the night that covers me...” The shadows collect in the glimmer of postnight lamps, mold
themselves into the forms of the Forgotten Ones. And holding them, herding them, Minister of Kudzu, Chief of the Hordes,
H-Eadman the White. They fall around him like autumn leaves, these Forgotten Ones, caressing him, fawning on him. He stands
rigid among them, the Leaf of Kudzu, green on white, emblazoned onhis chest. "I remember," wails the Nid, "a piece
of paper, a scrap, a mote that proves I'm here. Lost across the water in Iberia, a rag that tells
I'm here." H-Eadman the White sneers. "No form, no body. No form, no body." Arms spread, H-Eadman the White masses
the shadows, a hundred and seventy-five, and channels them through his fingers toward the fountain. They surround and close upon
Numb Elroy. "Crown him, my lovelies," cries H-Eadman. "Let him know that there are too many." "But I like it!"
says Numb Elroy, his eyes widening. "No matter! See how they crowd you, smother you. I must act to save
you. Sound the Call of Cutback. What difference between seventy-five and a hundred seventy-five save a one?" With a wave
of his arm, H-Eadman the White conjures the astral projections of the Suppliants of Distaff, their arms outstretched for the
Promise. "You can try to get in but you won't," he chants. "You can try to get in but you
won't!" A flapping overhead: 4 a.m. arrives and with it the Cockasnook, Bird of the Postnight, from the North. "Riddle
me this," he squawks with a gesture, "if the people from Poland are called Poles, why aren't the people from
Hollins called...?" "You can try to get in but you won't, haha, you can try to get in but you
won't." "I bring to this reunion," screeches the Cockasnook, "a great discovery from the past. There is precedent! Precedent for
females! Davoidson knew them once!" "No!" shouts H-Eadman the White. "They are anomalies. They are aberrations. They must be cut
back. They can try to get in but they won't. They can try to get in but they won't." TO
= Entertainment "Out of the night that covers me..." startles us all. H-Eadman cowers amid his seventy-five. "I have brought
her with me," rejoins the Cockasnook, "I found her where you hid her away, in the Cattlecombs beneath the Monument
of the Great God Parietus." "Out of the night that covers me, black as the pit..." A specter appears above
our heads ragged and scrawny, her eyes bitter with the injury of being forgotten. "No!" moans H-Eadman. "Kudzu defend me,
it's her. The first mistake of long ago come back to punish us all. The first female to crash the
gates of Davoidson! Honoria Bowman Moomaw!" "Let them go!" croaked the specter. "Give life to those you would deprive; admit
those you would deny. So says Honoria Bowman Moomaw." And with that, the shadow of the Masked Nid solidified, and
the specter dissipated in the mist. But, though the Nid ran free again in the postnight, Numb Elroy of the
Short Memory forgot the Words of Moomaw, and the seventy-five of H-Eadman were alone. There was a laugh like a
rustle of leaves.

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

"The Brown Pelican" by George Sklar continues at the Golden Circle Theatre of The Mint Museum of Art with performances
tonight and tomorrow at 8:15 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. Sklar says that the play, which dramatizes "pollution, the
extinction of our wildlife, the threat to all life on this tainted planet," is designed to make the audience "less
complacent about the future than they were before they saw it." Tickets are $3.

Close Student-Faculty Relations?

"The Tempest" by William Shakespeare, a noted English playwright, will be performed tonight at 8:15 p.m. by the Everyman Players,
a 19-member professional touring company. The production, planned as a theatre adventure rather than a historical drama, presents a new
musical score by Johan Franco played on a Moog synthesizer. Presented in Dana Auditorium at Queens College as part of
the Queens Artist series, admission is by season ticket or $1 for students.

"Dolls House" will be presented by the Charlotte Little Theatre Nov. 9, 10, 11, 16, 17 and 18 at 8:30
p.m. and Nov. 12 at 2:30 p.m. Student tickets are $1.50. The theatre says that they expect an early sellout
after the box office opens Monday.

The Piedmont Craftsmen’s Fair is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. today and tomorrow at Memorial Coliseum in Winston-Salem.
Over 100 craftsmen will display, demonstrate and sell their crafts. Door prize drawings will be "whimsically" presented from time to
time during the fair. The fair has been chosen for the past three years as one of the "Top 20
Travel Attractions in the U.S. for November" by Discover America Travel Organizations. Tickets for the bustling autumn celebration of the
arts are $1.50.

"Under the Yum Yum Tree" continues at the Independence Dinner Theatre. The buffet opens at 6:30 p.m. with the curtain
rising at 8:30. Tickets are $8 Thursday and $9 Friday and Saturday.

Roger Williams will appear in concert at 8 p.m. tonight in Ovens Auditorium. Tickets are $3.50 to $5.50.
