FLAIR FOR FICTION

Secretary Nancy Rhyne moonlights as a writer.
Staff Photo by Peterson

Copperhead Sparks Writing Enthusiast

By CHARLES SHEPERD
Staff Writer

The old saying about people being full of surprises amply applies to Mrs. Nancy Rhyne, secretary to Financial Vice-president C.
David Cornell. In addition to her official capacity, she is an accomplished journalist and has sold articles to the “West
Virginia State Magazine,” “Southern Living,” and other publications. Few writers have had such an unusual beginning to their careers as
has Mrs. Rhyne. Taking no journalism courses in college, she began writing by sheer accident. In 1958, she was bitten
four times by a copperhead. The horse serum given to counteract the snakebites proved only to make matters worse. Mrs.
Rhyne ended up spending a good deal of time in the hospital and read some interest-rousing articles about journalism while
recuperating. Later, she signed up for a creative writing course, and her hobby blossomed almost at once.

Mrs. Rhyne's first article was titled “Crabbing for Fun and Pleasure.” Soon afterward, she inquired to several sources and was
commissioned to write a series of 10 articles about Myrtle Beach. Mrs. Rhyne’s articles are definitely not, as she puts
it, the run-of-the-mill travelogue types. She wrote about ghosts, haunted houses, and other unusual aspects of the Myrtle Beach area.
Her skill is not confined to factual material only, although she considers this to be her best medium. Mrs. Rhyne
has written a short story called “The Jury’s Return,” which won second place in a Charlotte USSG contest. She has
made several trips as a guest of the South Carolina Travel and Commerce Commission. Last winter, she traveled to Oconee
State Park, and this summer was invited to the opening ceremonies of the new Hilton Hotel at Myrtle Beach.

What of the future? Mrs. Rhyne commented that she would like to spend more time with her hobby, but because
she triples as a mother and secretary, she has little leisure time. However, she is planning to take two creative
writing courses and hopes to experiment with more fictional material.

Students Fail To Apply For Money Available For Loans

By GARY STEWART
Staff Writer

Dean of Students Will Terry reported that no students have taken advantage of the student loan program established by last
year’s graduating seniors as their class gift to the college. The purpose of the student loan is to provide cash
on a short-term, low-interest basis. The seniors stipulated that the loan is to be used for necessities such as books,
tuition, room and board, unexpected trips, medical expenses, and other legitimate needs. “Legitimate reasons are not stereo equipment, a big
night out, or personal investment,” said Terry. “The loan is on a strictly legal basis to ensure prompt repayment, and
the reasons given for borrowing the money will be held highly confidential, between me and the student only.”

“The loan is for 90 days with an interest rate of three percent per annum. The maximum which can be
borrowed is $500,” Terry can grant extensions on the repayment of the loan of up to one year. Ralph Peeples,
student body president, stated that he is disappointed about there being so many restrictions but that it's still a good
idea. Presently, the student loan fund has only $810, but the senior class has pledged a total of $12,000, which
is to be reached within five years.

Netaher & 1972Page Seven The Davidsonian

Parking Fines Are Primarily For Parking Lot Improvement

By BRUCE CORSER
Staff Writer

Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze and his staff have effected numerous changes in the parking facilities at Davidson
this year. According to Mr. Meetze, new areas have created “approximately thirty-five additional spaces” benefiting both students and faculty-staff. New
parking areas include the Fine Arts parking lot opposite Main Street, open to students, faculty-staff, and visitors; spaces behind Duke
dorm for students only; parking spaces on Patterson Court for faculty-staff and visitors only; and spaces between Richardson Field and
Jackson Court for faculty-staff and visitors. The parking spaces in the west Belk lot, formerly for faculty-staff only, are now
for students, and the lot east of Belk, formerly for students, is now for faculty-staff and visitors.

Certain new regulations are also a part of the new parking system. Director of Alumni Affairs Zack Long, a key
man responsible for the reformed system, has emphasized that the rules are “not to harass people, but to make logic
out of what could be chaos. It is a fairly simple system, but requires cooperation.”

For example, parking permits, which must be displayed on the motor vehicle, cost $3.00 for cars and $2.00 for motorcycles.
The Cashier's office issues permits along with a map and a list of regulations. Lot restrictions are in effect between
the hours of 6 a.m. and 6 p.m., Monday through Saturday. A person may park in any designated area during
night hours or on Sunday. Students are forbidden to park on the grass or on yellow lines. A vehicle should
be parked between two white lines in a marked area. According to Long, these rules are the ones most often
violated.

Fines for improper parking amount to $3.00 per infraction. Illegal parking, such as on the grass or in a hazardous
zone, carries a $5.00 fine. A ticket must either be paid within thirty days or appealed as unjust to the
SGA traffic court within three weeks. The first traffic court session is scheduled for early next week in 132 Chambers.
The court will consist of the Vice-president of the SGA, Robert Cunningham, and one of the two other students. Long
stressed that “any student with a valid excuse will be given a just hearing.”

Bob Corlew, a former member of the Traffic Court and a member of the SGA, has indicated that over one
hundred tickets have been issued thus far. Students will begin issuing tickets shortly in conjunction with the campus security patrolmen.
This will be done on a work-study basis. Corlew stated that an SGA resolution passed last year called for the
fines and permit fees to go primarily to improve parking, then to reimburse the business office, and to a project
aimed at benefiting the student body. Last year $3,500 was collected which was placed in the general college fund. Corlew
said, “there is an impasse between the need for more parking and the desire to keep Davidson from being covered
with asphalt.”

“The new system will work if the students have some regard for the rules,” Long said.

VARIETY DISCOUNT

Best Buy on Paint Supplies — 10 Percent Above Cost
We supply all the Acrylic Art Supplies for Davidson College
20 Percent Discount Available on Stretcher Frames for Canvas and Acrylics
We also stock 8-Track Stereo Tapes of Original Artists for $2.99 and $3.90, along with a complete line of musical
instruments for rental.

235 Catawba Avenue in Cornelius
892-1786
