Page Two March 10, 1972 The Davidsonian

RIGHT THIS WAY (Staff Photo By Eades) Pi Kappa Alpha members await self-selecting freshmen.

Alumni Majority Favors Coeducation
By DOUG BROWN Managing Editor

Of the 27 per cent of the alumni responding to the Educational Policy Committee's Subcommittee on Coeducation questionnaire, 59.3 per cent stated that they were “in favor of increasing the number of women students at Davidson.”

The coeducation plan most favored by the alumni was to increase Davidson's enrollment by admitting from 300 to 500 women as regular students while keeping the number of men students at approximately the present level. This plan received support from 36.5 per cent of the alumni, and the second largest percentage of alumni (15.9 per cent) favored the admission of up to 100 women as transfer students on an experimental basis.

The increased enrollment plan was also favored by a majority of students, faculty, and staff. While the Subcommittee on Coeducation has been studying the educational feasibility of coeducation, the Budget, Buildings and Grounds Committee has had a subcommittee, chaired by Comptroller Robert W. Davidson, studying the financial aspects of coeducation.

The two subcommittee reports will be considered by the Educational Policy Committee, which will make a recommendation to the faculty. The faculty’s recommendations will be referred to the president, who will make his recommendations to the college trustees. The trustees are scheduled to consider the matter in May.

The series of questionnaires were distributed to all Davidson constituents. Completed forms were returned by 83.5 per cent of the faculty, 60.3 per cent of the students, and 52.7 per cent of the staff. Of Davidson's nearly 10,000 alumni, 2,655 returned the survey. Of Davidson's constituents, the alumni favor coeducation the least, for 59.3 per cent favored coeducation in comparison to a favorable opinion by 68.6 per cent of the faculty, 75.9 per cent of the staff, and 90.7 per cent of the students.

The argument for coeducation “most convincing” was, “the college environment would be a more natural place in which to live and study,” for this statement received 70 per cent approval or more from all groups. Possible arguments against coeducation were largely not accepted but the argument that “important advantages of an all-male environment would be lost” was agreed with by 46.6 per cent of the alumni and 42.8 per cent of the faculty.

A majority of faculty and alumni said they would not favor coeducation if the faculty-student ratio, the endowment per student, or the present operation expenditure per student were adversely affected. On the question of when the first women should be admitted, 28.9 per cent of the alumni prefer that funds at least for the first two or three years be raised before coeducation is phased in.

Managing Editors: DOUG BROWN, ALEC HOON
Sports Editor: JOE EARLE
News Editor: TOM AINSWORTH
Photography Editor: BILL BARNES
Assistant Managing Editors: BILL GIDUZ, BOB HOWELL, THOM NICOLL, MIKE TANNER
Copy Editors: BILL ELLETT, LEX VEAZEY
Assistant Business Managers: RICHARD ROMEYN, RICH SMITH, PHIL STIKES
Assistant Sports Editors: HOWARD BOYD, CHARLIE TERRELL

The Davidsonian Staff
Associate Editors: ALAN BARAGONA, ROBERT TOUCHTON, GRAY WILSON
Contributing Editors: TOM BRUCE, TODD EADES, JIM HANNA
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKOM, KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL
Photographers: TOM CAMPBELL, DAVE DOTY, TODD EADES, FRANK ERWIN, JOE RODRIGUEZ
Circulation: ROBERT GATES, GREG MITCHELL
Contributors this week: Bruce Becker, Phil Bishop, Pete Celantano, Alan Ford, Bruce Maloy, Richard Romeyn.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Clubs Open Doors For Self-Selection
By TOM AINSWORTH News Editor

In preparation for the March 14 self-selection of fraternities by the freshman class, the 10 Patterson Court eating clubs staged open houses during Tuesday and Wednesday nights. The reactions were definitely mixed in regard to both hosts and guests, and their respective evaluations of the proceedings.

“Everything’s working out pretty well,” commented Ray Swetenburg, head of the Pi Kappa Alpha eating club, who was pleased with Tuesday night's turnout. In regard to the same situation, however, Randy Parker of Fannie and Mabel’s thought that the turnout has been “slow” due to...be willing to contribute towards the capital expenses involved in going coeducational, 43.8 per cent of the alumni said they would, 30.1 per cent said they would not, and the rest were not sure. When asked if Davidson's becoming coeducational would affect the level of their annual giving, 18 per cent of the alumni said they would give more, 53.0 per cent would give about the same, 6.8 per cent would give less, and 22.2 per cent were not sure.

Somewhat to the lack of interest of the upperclass members of the house in promoting the occasion, Emmanon's Jim Thompson took the opposite view from Parker, claiming that the freshmen themselves hadn’t taken full advantage of the situation in coming down and asking questions about the social situation each house had to offer. Indeed, in advertising the open house schedule to the freshmen, Thompson had gone to all four floors in Cannon dorm on Monday evening, and only two had shown up at the meetings. Regardless of the fault, the initial freshman response was far from expected. Only an estimated 40 per cent of the class participated the first night, despite the numerous invitations.

Danny Thorne of the SPEs, claiming that the open house policy might have been better advertised, nonetheless put much of the blame for the slow reaction on the very nature of the new policy as opposed to the idea of rushing. “Freshmen don’t feel as accepted or wanted as we did when we went through,” he said, stating an opinion frequently expressed by the various fraternity leaders. Nevertheless, none of the eating house members or the freshmen who did turn out desired to return to the old system. Almost all of those freshmen thought that the experience had been informative and helpful, as exemplified by Bob Wetzel who was “impressed by the house hospitality.” The only real complaint among freshmen seemed to be in the line of registration for places in eating clubs, most feeling it an unsatisfactory method much like Career-Service.

Inaugurated: Kincaid Announces Positions
By BRUCE MALOY
Staff Writer

Under a new program approved by the faculty at its February 15 meeting, students can now be placed in an “experiential” learning situation for a term or a term and a summer. The new program called Career/Service, offers students an opportunity to work in hospitals, legal offices, public agencies, businesses, and a variety of other locations. Program director Randall R. Kincaid Jr. said that “there are a few positions already available. If interested students see me immediately, there is a possibility of placing them in a job for this summer and next fall.” The program director is responsible for finding the positions and assisting the students in placement.

Kincaid added, “Positions already available are: an inner city agency in Newark, N. J., a job with the N. C. Department of Corrections, an internship at the Smithsonian, an internship with a furniture manufacturing firm, jobs with various agencies in Charlotte, work with disturbed children, and an opening with access to the House Committee on Science and Astronautics.”

Students who have been at Davidson College for two terms and who are making normal progress toward a degree are eligible for participation in Career/Service. Students may or may not be able to earn money in Career/Service. Positions will be sought on the basis of their educational value and not because they pay well. Participating students earn no academic credit for Career/Service itself. However, credit may be earned through Extended Studies, independent study, or foreign language department offerings if the work involves foreign travel or experience. Normally, students will not be able to earn full academic credit (three courses) during one term of Career/Service. Deficiencies may be made up by advanced placement, summer school, or the accelerated progress program.

EPC Survey Shows (Continued from Page 1)

vey groups and to keep them informed via college publications. A few of the administrators contacted recommended that enough women be admitted initially so that they would not feel like “an isolated minority," and that “coeducating the faculty” be given serious consideration. When asked, “If you had to do it over again, would you be in favor of coeducation at your institution,” each responded according to Patterson, “seemed genuinely convinced that the move to coeducation was the right one for his institution. Most of them added comments to suggest that this was the view also of the academic community which they served.”