By DOUG BROWN Managing Editor

Artis Monday afternoon, the Educational Policy Committee unanimously adopted a comprehensive educational and financial report calling for the immediate implementation
of coeducation. The faculty will approve or disapprove the report this Tuesday. If the faculty acts favorably, the report will
be sent to the Trustees for final consideration on May 4-5.

The report, "Coeducation at Davidson College," calls for the inauguration of coeducation at Davidson on a significant scale at the
earliest opportunity. This can best be done by admitting up to fifty transfer women in the fall. The total enrollment
would remain at 1060 as would the additional faculty members required, and the report recommends that the number of women
faculty members should be increased significantly.

"Coeducation at Davidson College" envisions a 10-year transition to coeducation, and it recommends that at the end of the ten-year
period the number of men should be 1000 and the number of women should be 400. "Coeducation at Davidson College"
states: "We decided to press for the beginnings of coeducation on a significant scale by the autumn of 1972 because
we feel that the matter is of some urgency."

The report sees merit in the argument that the trend of men's colleges becoming coeducational has placed Davidson in an
unfavorable position. The investigation into the cost of coeducation found it economically feasible. Recommendations were made about the need to
raise funds.

In September of 1971, the Subcommittee on Coeducation of the EPC was formed, and it has worked diligently under the
chairmanship of Associate Professor of History W. Brown Patterson Jr. Other members of the subcommittee were Assistant Professor of English
Charles E. Cornwell, Assistant Professor of Biology David C. Grant, Professor of Economics Charles B. Raul, and Joseph E. Turner.

The financial findings were amassed by the Subcommittee on Coeducation of the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee, chaired by College
Comptroller Robert W. Davidson. Other members were Professor of Chemistry James M. Fredericksen and Assistant Professor of Business Administration Glen
C. Lindsey.

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

KPC Approves Coeducation Report

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students April 7, 1972

Dean Makes Study Of Davidson Life

By BOB HOWELL Asst. Managing Editor

Dean of Students Will Terry has compiled a brief study of student life at Davidson, outlining some major problems and
several goals to be set. The study is directed initially toward the Student Life Committee (SLC), of which Terry is
the chairman. "I'm trying to lead the SLC to recognize and pursue certain goals for student life at Davidson," he
explained. "My concern is that we have not always defined what we wanted to make available to happen."

Terry believes that this is a vital part in supporting Davidson's claim that it seeks to educate the whole man,
and he emphasized that it must not be interpreted to mean making every student alike. "When we speak of establishing
goals for student life, we do not mean molds. It is doubtful that we should strive for well-rounded students in
every case," Terry observed.

Terry feels that Davidson is "confronted with a serious morale problem" and, among the problems of the students here, that
"the first reality is a genuine sense of alienation." He pointed out, "This alienation manifests itself in distrust of institutions
and suspicions about the motives of the men who run the college." He considers boredom the second reality. "The present
student is the product of an over-simulated society. He is in search of experiences," Terry noted. "When students don't experience
direction, they resent it."

The Educational Policy Committee will hold an open meeting for faculty and students for the discussion of the plans for
coeducation on Monday at 4 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium.(This is the last installment of a four-part series entitled "Campus Governance:
Crisis of Authority.")

In this series, we have discussed the history of academic governance, the weaknesses in Davidson’s case, and the case for
increased student participation. In this final article of the series, we hope to outline an alternative to the present governance
structure and the advantages of changing to a different method of decision-making.

At present, one of Davidson’s biggest governance difficulties is factionalism. This situation is caused by a faculty constitution which advocates
faculty rule over the institution and which theoretically provides little in the way of meaningful administrative or student input.

But in practice, however, the administration and student body have challenged faculty power in many areas. Thus, we have an
administration and student body on the offensive and a faculty on the defensive. The administration is eating away at faculty
power, but the faculty constitution cannot seem to effectively curb the process. The result is a war between constituencies with
each fighting for a greater role in decision-making, which produces factionalism.

Many other colleges such as Davidson have experienced a similar situation. But these colleges have changed their governance structure to
include all members of the college community, while Davidson continues in its futile effort of disjoint rule. If factionalism is
our biggest problem, then we must find a way to neutralize factionalism. And the most logical way to neutralize factionalism
is to unify factions. In short, we need a community government.

If Davidson is going to call itself an academic community, then it must indeed act like a community, that is,
a group or groups of persons living together who have common interests and concerns. Instead of reinforcing separations of power
groups, we should encourage the development of a governance structure which brings these groups together. In community spirit, all groups
prosper and each segment contributes something unique and significant.

In essence, we need a sharing of power by administration, faculty, and students which will benefit all parties. A unicameral
college assembly is an adequate governing structure which would convene several times during the year and pass legislation dealing with
general academic policy. During the intervals between meetings of the College Assembly, committees embracing members of all constituencies could prepare
legislation and perform the necessary research. Faculty representatives might compose the majority of the assembly with student and administrative representatives
also included. This would allow the faculty predominant influence in all legislation but would also include significant student and administrative
input.

In addition to the College Assembly, the faculty could still meet as a body to handle professional affairs such as
faculty salaries, reappointments, promotions, dismissals, nominations, or simply to debate issues so that the faculty representatives would have an idea
of faculty feeling on the issues. The student senate would also meet to decide student matters and debate the issues
as well. Each constituency would keep its identity, yet they would work together in hammering out college policy.

The advantages of a College Assembly are numerous. In a unicameral body, there is less possibility for conflicting jurisdictions. The
roles of the constituencies would be defined, thus alleviating the problem as to who is to make what decision. A
college assembly also provides a coordination of leadership necessary for efficient governance and no doubt a common purpose would be
fostered by such a governance system which would encourage a badly needed rise in faculty, student, and administrative morale. Such
a system would avoid decision fiat in favor of decision by consensus. If the administration should happen to impinge on
the decision-making powers of the assembly, appropriate action could rectify the situation. In other words, each constituency could effectively check
the others, thus creating a governing balance.

Such a governance structure would ensure that all within the college community are heard. Communications would be improved, understanding enhanced,
and information shared. Hopefully, a College Assembly would engender some amount of trust among the assembly in an atmosphere of
reason and order. We must divest ourselves of the old and static compartmentalization.

(See GOVERNANCE, Page 2)
