Page Eight Brinnon. OEE " March 10, 1972

1972 Baseball Schedule

March
10  Guilford there 3 p.m.
11  Pfeiffer here 2 p.m.
14  Catawba there 3 p.m.
17  Catawba here 3 p.m.
18  East Carolina here 2 p.m.
20  C. Michigan here 3 p.m.
22  Pfeiffer there 3 p.m.
23  Guilford here 3 p.m.
25  Wm. and Mary (2) here 1:30 p.m.
27  Oberlin here 3 p.m.
28  Oberlin here 3 p.m.
29  Johns Hopkins here 3 p.m.
30  Johns Hopkins here 3 p.m.

April
1   Citadel (2) here 1:30 p.m.
4   Furman (2) there 1:30 p.m.
6   E. Baptist here 3 p.m.
8   VMI there 2 p.m.
10  Richmond (2) there 1:30 p.m.
15  E. Carolina (2) there 1:30 p.m.
18  Duke here 3 p.m.
20  UNC Chapel Hill there 7:30 p.m.
22  Furman (2) here 1:30 p.m.
24  Duke there 3 p.m.
26  Belmont Abbey here 3 p.m.
29  Citadel (2) there 1:30 p.m.

May
2   Belmont Abbey there 3 p.m.

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

A lack of practice and an uncertain pitching staff are the big question marks facing the Davidson Wildcat baseball team, which opens its season today at Guilford. Coach Tom Stevens hopes to discover some answers to those questions in that game, and also tomorrow when the Cats host perennial Carolinas Conference power Pfeiffer at 2 p.m.

Stevens cited the early spring break as a drawback to the preparations for the season. “We have been very slow getting in shape, and we still need more work. Ordinarily we would have played several practice games by now, but the early break has given us only a week of practice,” he explained.

The games with Guilford and Pfeiffer will help Stevens see how his squad will react in pressure situations, something he has been unable to observe because of the necessary emphasis on conditioning and fundamentals.

Fogleman Rehired As Soccer Coach

Despite an effort to resign, Harry Fogleman will remain as soccer coach. Fogleman entered his resignation several weeks ago and it was temporarily accepted by the administration. Dr. Tom Scott, director of athletics, said that he asked Fogleman to take the job back when he could not find a replacement.

“I felt I had to go back,” Fogleman commented, “rather than let the program die for lack of a coach.” “I had wanted to resign because of the expanded tennis program here,” Fogleman added. “It will take up a good deal of my time.” Scott evidently offered the job to Assistant Soccer Coach Peter Sterling, who turned it down due to prior commitments at the College Union.

The uncertainty troubling the mound staff is mainly due to Davis Beaston's sore arm, which has been bothering him all winter according to Stevens. “It will be a real blow to us if he can't pitch,” said Stevens, “because we are counting on him as a starter. Rick Pipan also has not come along as fast as I had hoped, and we need him to be ready soon.”

Pipan and Beaston were mainstays on last year's club. Pipan, a senior, posted a 7-5 mark and a 1.82 ERA while hurling 94 innings. Beaston is a junior and was the ace reliever last season as he recorded four saves. The pitching load will fall on two sophomores, Ross Manire and Frank Folger, and a senior, Mike Frye. These veterans should receive help from junior Greg Cameron, who hasn't played since his freshman year, and freshmen Dwight Plemmons and Joe Duncan.

The hitting phase of the game offers Stevens more comfort than pitching, at least on paper. “We have more power this year, and the potential to score more runs,” he observed. Catcher and captain Harold Wilkerson returns as the top RBI man with 23, and he batted .321 last season.

SUMMER STUDIES IN ATHENS, GREECE
JUNE 28 - AUGUST 10
Economics, Sociology, History, Philosophy and History of Art
Distinguished American and European Faculty
Classes and lodging in suburban Athens.
Extensive Trips and Cruises
For Brochure Write Box 8932, JFK Station, Boston, Mass. 02114

Weakened Wildcat Netters Face Tough SC Challenge
By PETE CELANTANO
Staff Writer

Graduation and transfers have hurt this year's edition of coach Harry Fogleman’s Davidson College tennis team. Last year’s Southern Conference champs, with a 19-5 overall record, lost most of their strength with the graduation of Jim Cantrell and Jeff Chetwood and the transfers of Bob Koury (Wake Forest), Jeff Dumansky (Delaware), and Hy Lankenau (Hollins). All, except Lankenau, were individual Southern Conference champs.last year. Though these departures hurt considerably, there is still a returning nucleus of four players: Bill Allen, Bill Dupont, David Weaver, and Frank Dana. Wilkerson was named to the all-conference team last year. The infield appears to be solid both offensively and defensively. Junior Lynn Wagner starts at first base for the third straight year, and he posted a .273 average. Second-sacker Jack Latimer hit .302 before suffering a knee injury last season, and Stevens is anxious for him to regain that form. Shortstop Jack Willits was the leading batter for last year’s squad with a .354 mark, and he slammed three home runs and stole nine bases to pace those categories. Stevens is particularly pleased with the play of freshman Mark Rodgman at third base. “Mark is really a catcher but he is so quick and has a good arm, that he can do well at third for us. He is a good hitter as well.” Another freshman, George Weicker, lends some needed versatility to the infield. “He can play either second, third or the outfield and he can hit with power,” commented Stevens. Senior Bill Barnhill returns as the centerfielder, and he is counted on for consistency.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

Barnhill slapped a team-leading 43 hits in averaging .347 last year. Joining him in the outfield will be rightfielder Greg Sikes, a power hitter, and either Bill Todd or Larry Ruddell. Todd is a freshman whose biggest asset is speed, while Ruddell, a sophomore, is a steady performer. Stevens is anticipating a better record than last season’s 15-19 worksheet, and he realizes the potential is there. “We started fast last year but then slumped badly, and I don’t think that slump will happen this time. There is more experience on this team than I’ve had before, with most of the seniors having played regularly since they were freshmen.”

170 N. Main
Salads
“After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken

Only Weaver is a returning individual champ. To fill out the squad, a double elimination tournament was held in the fall to determine which players would make the team. In addition to those already mentioned, three sophomores, Gary Bressler, Scoot Dimon, and Jim Dorsett, plus Rick Quinby, a freshman, and Gary Smith, a junior, made the team. Because of the loss of so many established players, the team placements are highly unsettled. Only David Weaver at first singles, Rick Quinby playing first doubles with Weaver, and Bill Allen, who will play second doubles with an as yet unknown partner, are sure of positions. The remaining spots will be filled Friday, when Davidson meets the University of Eastern Kentucky on the varsity courts at 2 p.m. today. Commenting on the non-conference schedule, Coach Harry Fogleman stated that it is “a very representative one,” with Big 10 powers Purdue and Wisconsin, Eastern heavyweights such as Dartmouth and Harvard, and perennially strong teams like Duke, Navy, and Cincinnati. Three of the teams on this year’s schedule handed Davidson three of its five defeats last year. These are Duke, Harvard, and Navy. Surveying his team's strength and the difficult schedule, Fogleman said that he did not expect a repeat of last year’s record of 19-5. The Southern Conference will also be a stiff test for the Wildcats this year. Strengthened by scholarship players, Furman and William & Mary should pose a serious threat to Davidson’s tennis supremacy in the Conference. Davidson has won the title six out of the last seven years. Recently Fogleman received the United States Lawn Tennis Association's National Tennis Education Award of Merit for his outstanding work in promoting tennis in the United States. This is the highest award the U.S.L.T.A. gives to college coaches and club pros, and Fogleman is the first Davidson coach to receive it. Fogleman is looking for his 400th win this season, having already acquired 386.

Whatever you want, we’ve got
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Field Jackets — P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N. C.
Desserts
Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room

AFLOAT WORLD, Discover the World on Your SEMESTER AT SEA
Sails each September & February
Combine accredited study with educational stops in Africa, Australasia and the Orient. Over 5000 students from 450 campuses have already experienced this international program. A wide range of financial aid is available. Write now for free catalog: WCA, Chapman College, Box CC12, Orange, Cal. 92688