Zhe Davidsonian October 20, 1972 Page Seven

Politicians Switch, Profit By Youth Vote
By TOM BRUCE
Contributing Editor

As the new youth electorate contemplates the coming national elections, there has been intentional distortion of the exact means by
which the 18 to 21-year-old population accepted its franchise. Everyone from Edmund Muskie to Strom Thurmond has reminded his youth
constituency to remember who was responsible for the long-sought emancipation. Now that the 18-year-old vote is a reality, almost all
the candidates point with pride to their support of the extension.

Back in the winter of 1970, the youth vote was popular only among the youth and a small corps of
congressmen. Beginning with the opening years of World War II, every United States Congress had seen the introduction of one
or more proposed constitutional amendments seeking to lower the voting age. Each of the last four presidents endorsed the idea,
but somehow the vote never materialized. For a constitutional amendment to become law, it must be ratified by 38 of
the 50 states. This was nearly impossible since only four states (Alaska, Georgia, Hawaii, and Kentucky) could muster enough support
to warrant the change. Again and again, state legislatures rejected the amendment, stalled it in committee, or submitted it to
the people by referendum. The people repeatedly rejected the motion, angered by mounting youth militance.

In 1970, Senator Edward Kennedy came up with the idea of enfranchising the young voters through regular legislation. He decided
to include the youth suffrage clause in the pending renewal of the “Voting Rights Act of 1965.” Kennedy arranged for
Senator Mike Mansfield, majority leader in the Senate, to introduce the entire package. This effectively circumvented intervention by the powerful
Judiciary Committee, chaired by 82-year-old Rep. Emanuel Cellars, an abject enemy of the provision who had argued against it for
years. Senators who would have been reluctant to approve the measure voted in favor of it, since they could not
afford to disparage the “Voting Rights Act” proper.

President Richard Nixon sought in vain to stop the measure. He suggested that it be submitted to the states for
ratification as a Constitutional Amendment. Nixon wanted the matter entrusted to the states where it had already failed so many
times. Kennedy pointed out that the states might not have an opportunity to act on the matter before the 1972
elections, then two full years away. The White House pressured Republican senators and representatives to vote against the act so
that it could go the Constitutional Convention route. The vote was 64-17 in favor of the measure, with the hesitant
Republicans withholding their votes until the Kennedy supporters and party regulars had already decided the matter. Several senators then had
their votes “changed” before publication of the Congressional Record.

The week before the vote was taken, a Gallup poll showed that a cross-section of Americans believed that student unrest
was the number one problem in the United States. Student unrest was more serious, the poll showed, than the Vietnam
War, the economy, or racial division. Nixon signed the bill after a full week of deliberation, pointing out that the
Supreme Court would probably declare it unconstitutional. When asked if a test case was planned, Nixon stated that he favored
the youth vote without reservation. He added that Attorney General John Mitchell would push for the matter to come before
the Supreme Court at an early date.

On Dec. 21, 1971, just 10 days before the law was to take effect, the Supreme Court handed down its
5-4 decision to permit the 18-year-old vote in federal races but not in state and local races. Chief Justice Warren
Berger, a Nixon appointee, wrote that the 18-year-old vote was unconstitutional in all regards. In a footnote, he stated that
he was personally in favor of the vote but desired to see it implemented through “a Constitutional Convention in the
50 states.” Now youth could legally vote in federal elections for President, Vice-President, senators, and members of the House of
Representatives.

Charges, Counter Charges Heat Night Air As Debaters Toss Out Political Rhetoric
By HUGH MOORE
Staff Writer

Despite the lack of faculty assistance, student Nixon supporters eagerly debated Professor of Political Science William E. Jackson and two
student McGovern advocates Monday night. Junior Robert F. Touchton of the Nixon team chided faculty members, saying they were “afraid
to support Nixon,” because several faculty members believed such support would alienate students. The students, though, support Nixon over McGovern,
Touchton said, citing the recent straw ballot. “How do you alienate people by agreeing with them?”

Jackson began the debate, which was held in the balcony of Philanthropic Hall, by calling Nixon the “trickiest politician the
nation has ever known.” The audience, sympathetic to McGovern, shouted approval. Jackson then announced the winners of several mock awards
including the recipient of the Orwell Award, Sen. Hugh Scott (R.-Pa.), who gave the best demonstration of newspeak. Scott earned
this by implying that...Peace is war in his nomination of Nixon for the Nobel Peace Prize. Becoming more serious, Jackson
began his defense of McGovern by denouncing the radical tag which some have attached to the Democratic nominee. “He is
so radical he believes in honesty,” Jackson said. Contrasting Nixon with McGovern, Jackson presented several examples of administration corruption, such
as unfair milk price supports for contributors and refusal to disclose the sources of campaign funds which probably include $700,000
allocated for ‘nefarious purposes.’ Jackson, echoing McGovern and consumer advocate Ralph Nader, said Nixon heads “the most corrupt administration that
I've read about in a long time.” Indeed, McGovern would “threaten the security of rich men,” Jackson said, in seeking
“to help the underprivileged who the government has abandoned.” Jackson closed with a condemnation of the conduct of the Vietnam
War, asserting that a vote for Nixon is a vote for South Vietnam President Nguyen Van Thieu.

Senior George Kaneklides, who happens to be an advisee of Jackson, began the argument for Nixon. Nixon's accomplishments, which include
his part in securing the 18-year-old vote and his overhaul of the Selective Service System, were reviewed by Kaneklides. “The
President's proposals to the North Vietnamese have been fair,” Kaneklides claimed. “We are on the verge of a settlement.” Kaneklides
also said that Nixon would “consider amnesty” after the war, although, in fact, Nixon has shied away from the amnesty
issue and tied it to McGovern. Students should look at the overall foreign policy of the Nixon administration, Kaneklides said.
The administration has made visits to the Soviet Union and Red China, participated in the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, and
turned around cold war rhetoric. The economic situation is also bright, Kaneklides contended. Wage and price controls have “taken inflation
by surprise” — paychecks are no longer “eaten up.” In answering charges of corruption, Kaneklides said that “boys will be
boys.” He, in turn, accused McGovern of duplicity on the busing and abortion issues. Compared to McGovern, Kaneklides said, Nixon
is “the most credible President we've ever had.” The McGovern supporters in the crowd groaned.

The rebuttals began with freshman Robert E. Mooty's attack on Kaneklides' comments. Mooty said that McGovern could end the war
by pulling the troops out and also bring the prisoners of war home. Mooty then slammed Nixon's economic program, saying
that prices are still rising and that paychecks, if not eaten up, have certainly been “gnawed on and chewed.” Robert
F. Touchton offered a rebuttal of Jackson's speech, pointing out that “Nixon has laid the base for a true and
lasting generation of peace after the war ends.” Sophomore Paul R. Mitchell, in wrapping up the argument for McGovern, reminded
the audience that Nixon had referred to Kent State students as “bums.” Junior Sanford L. Steelman Jr., concluding the debate
for Nixon, contended that McGovern is not the man of the people, as he is sometimes portrayed, but rather represents
a rich, intellectual group. McGovern stole the nomination, Steelman said.

Somehow many Congressional leaders changed their thinking on the matter and decided to move for youth suffrage in state and
local races. Not the least of considerations was the factor of expense. Senator Jacob Javits of New York testifies that
it would cost $5 million in New York City alone to conduct an election where one set of voters could
vote for one slate and another set of voters were limited to a lesser one. New voting machines and extra
employees would have been required. All traces of opposition to the issue vanished. Since the entire Senate would be subject
to the youth vote, they saw no reason why state and local officials should be exempt. Ninety-five of them co-sponsored
a constitutional amendment to broaden the youth suffrage to all elections — federal, state, and local. The amendment went through
in record time, with the full endorsement of the White House. After the youth vote was a matter of law,
President Nixon reiterated his long-standing support for the bill and expressed delight that it had gone through “with full support
of the American people.” He predicted that student militance would subside as a result of his administration’s foresight in providing
for the youth vote.

In the Senate, each of the 95 men who joined in the last-minute effort to universalize the youth vote are
making full use of their record. Campaign literature for senators seeking re-election in November invariably states that the candidate “co-sponsored
the amendment that gave 18-year-olds the precious right to vote,” (as Strom Thurmond's circulars express it). The crowning irony of
the whole affair is that had Nixon been successful in blocking the youth vote, his “new majority” of the American
public might be just a little bit smaller. More votes for Nixon will probably be Senator Kennedy's only gratitude for
devising the strategy that will permit the 18-21 year old age group to vote.

Speakers for Nixon, McGovern, await turns.
