Cornell Discusses Bookstore Location
By ALAN FORD

Although no definite site has yet been selected for the bookstore for next year, several sites are under consideration, according
to Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell. There are about 12 sites under consideration by the college.
Some four to six sites are located uptown and were not listed specifically, but grouped together. Cornell said that they
were not named for fear that such a declaration of interest would drive up prices if the college decided to
pursue a plan involving one of these sites.

"Now," he said, "the college’s lawyers are checking into the question of whether or not such a move would affect
Davidson's tax-free status for the bookstore."

Another possibility would involve moving the present permanent building housing the bookstore over to a location near Jackson Court. This
would be the most expensive plan, but the building could be put to good use if and when the bookstore
is included in a new Union Building, Cornell stated.

Another alternative is to put the bookstore in what is now the supply room of the ROTC department in the
basement of Belk dorm. Cornell said that all ROTC supplies have been cleared from this area and that the room
now stands vacant.

The final alternative voiced by Cornell was to erect a temporary building, such as a "Butler" building, to house the
bookstore. Such a building would probably be built near Patterson Court. If this plan is used, the temporary building will
be moved to another location and used for storage after the bookstore is moved to a permanent site. Cornell said
that the college is desperately in need of storage space.

Cornell said that a final decision on placement of the bookstore is expected in about a month. The determining factors
in picking a site are cost, accessibility to the students, and long-range usage (if the present building is moved), he
said.

Peter Nicholls said that of the possible sites he thought the most likely would be the basement of Belk. "This
place is available, and availability is an important factor," he stated. When asked about an uptown move, he had this
to say: "I’m against a central location uptown because of competition between the college store and uptown merchants. It also
would be pretty far for students to walk. I am in favor of a fringe location, such as the site
of the old Davidson College medical building."

Virgins
The Davidsonian
February 11, 1972
Page Three

AN OUTING
(Staff photo by Manley)
Davidson explorers triumph over Gilley Cave.

As Spelunkers Enter
By BILL GIDUZ

Speaking only from the experience incurred in a single venture, I have concluded that caving can easily be explained in
Freudian terms. Your superego tells you that everything is fine and everything will be all right, while your id harbors
pure, raw terror.

My somewhat limited experience with the sport occurred last weekend on a trip with eight other members of the Davidson
College Outing Club. Gilley Cave in Pennington Gap, Virginia, was chosen as the object of our endeavor, and it turned
out to be an excellent choice.

After arriving in Pennington Gap we began our search for the uncommercialized cave. One local housewife told us quite emphatically,
"Ya’ll goin’ in thar? I went in thar once with my husband when we'z courtin’ but I shore wouldn't do
it again!"

Our confidence having been sufficiently bolstered, we finally located the cave halfway up a steep hillside. At a home near
the bottom of the hill we all had to sign in and tell the inhabitants when we were planning to
emerge, so they could call the rescue squad if we didn’t happen to find our way out.

Those of us who were virgins at the sport were introduced to its finer points quickly. We had to crawl
on our stomachs through mud for the first 10 feet or so. Once inside we consulted our map, but reading
a map of a dark, three-dimensional cave is not nearly so easy as finding our way from Poughkeepsie to Plattsburg
on I-87.

Every corner brings something new, though. A two-foot passageway often breaks out into a 50-foot room and a rocky tunnel
can lead to a sandy one. Gilley was noticeably deficient in stalactites and stalagmites, but I was informed that the
ease of passage made up for the lack of scenery. I took their word for it.

According to the veterans in the group, Gilley is one of the easiest caves around. Most of your time is
spent walking, not crawling. Even from my unenlightened viewpoint I could see that it was a big cave. Several rooms
were close to 100 feet high and equally as wide.

Cavers are a rather morbid lot: you can tell that by noticing the names of formations on their maps. Gilley
has its Morgue Room, Slab Room, and Sloth of Competition Keen For Med School Seats
By JOHN CASSELS

This year 35,000 students will compete for 13,000 spaces availablein U.S. med schools, and about 50 Davidson students will be
among the applicants. According to “The Chronicle of Higher Education,” these 35,000 applicants represent an increase of 6,000 applicants over
last year. The current rise portends an even greater future demand. During the last few years, there has been a
significant rise in the number of freshmen and sophomores enrolled in undergraduate pre-med programs. In the last ten years, the
number of applications med schools handle has increased four times, from 59,054 in 1962-63 to an estimated 245,000 this year.
Over this same time period, the number of places in med schools has increased by only 4,500 seats, from 8,642
in 1962-63 to 13,000 in 1972-73. Davidson continues, however, to send a majority of its med school aspirants on to
graduate work. James M. Frederickson, director of Davidson's pre-med program, estimates that 75 percent of the college’s applicants will fill
med school seats each year and that most of them participated in the pre-med program at Davidson. “That percentage would
probably rank us as number one in the south and number four in the country,” Frederickson said. “We do very
well here in the state medical schools: Duke, North Carolina, and Bowman-Gray,” he said. Students also attend state schools throughout
the south and at Pennsylvania, Baylor, Tulane, Emory, and Vanderbilt. “The med schools are looking for the best student they
can get,” he said. Most any major can be accepted, as long as the student has his required science. The
minimum requirements in science for all 108 med schools in the country include four courses in chemistry through organic, two
courses in physics, two courses in biology, and one in math. The Davidson program is built around this core, with
four additional science electives required for a pre-med major. “The pre-med major is probably one of the first inter-disciplinary programs
we (Davidson) have offered,” Frederickson said. The Medical College Admission Test (Med CAT) is administered to students applying to med
schools. Frederickson, however, said that the schools say it is not the major factor in admittance. The test covers four
general areas: verbal, quantitative, science, and general knowledge. Davidson students have done best on the general knowledge section of the
test over the years. The student who has the better background in science might have some advantage, but extracurricular activities
and motivation weigh heavily in the school’s decision. “Today, it’s not so much the major you've had, but your potential
to be a good physician,” Frederickson said. Fewer than a thousand additional spaces will be available in first-year medical classes.
Although schools in the U.S. are trying to expand, their rate cannot keep up with the burgeoning demand for places.
More than 3,000 medical students are thought to be studying in universities overseas. Much of the increase in demand for
med school places relates to the demand throughout the country for more doctors. Many of the applicants are unemployed M.A.
and Ph.D. holders. Other students with scientific backgrounds have started going into medicine since they feel the field will be
more secure in the future than the aerospace industry.

Crawl On Stomachs Cave Despair while other caves are Man's Torture, No Exit, and Pit noted for such names as
Thin of the Pendulum. Also, cavers never tell stories about the outside world, but they are full of reassuring tales
about doused lights and caved-in passages. Light is definitely the most important thing to a caver. Carbide lamps are treated
with the tenderest of care and we took enough carbide to last for a whole day at least. There is
ample justification for being scared of the dark when you're 200 feet underground. Once you get into a cave, you
have to get back out, and to do that you have to have either light or a whole lot of
luck. Spelunkers can seldom count on the latter because of the intricacies of passageways, so they make sure they have
plenty of the former. It is really difficult to describe the feeling you get when you start out of a
cave. Few structures look the same as they did when you came in. Therefore, each recognized room or formation brings
a feeling of relief and each unrecognized structure brings the id a little closer to the surface. It’s a sort
of uneasy, anxious feeling that maybe you'll get lost. Maybe you'll turn into a story for other cavers to tell.
But, I guess that's part of the attraction caving holds: every time you go in, you don't know if you’re
coming out. A cloudy, cold, and wet Virginia sky has never been one of my favorite sights, but it did
look better than ever Saturday afternoon. I had been the first one in, and I was also the first one
out. Caving is quite an experience, there’s no question about it, and I think I may be ready for another
trip in a year or so. Until then, I think I'll leave caves to the bats and bears.
