Page Two February 4, 1972 The Davidsonian

Local Entrepreneurs Obtain Tuxedo Business, Begin Sale
By TOM BRUCE
Contributing Editor

Sophomore Jack Wilson sees new possibilities for the free enterprise system in his campus tuxedo bonanza, a cautious venture that may reaffirm Davidson as the land of opportunity.

In a surprising series of moves last week, Wilson acquired the entire stock of Charlotte’s Ben Tuble Tuxedo Rentals. “We carted off about 40 tuxedos and 78 dinner jackets plus about 150 shirts, hundreds of cummerbunds and literally thousands of suspenders and studs,” Wilson said.

The sale was initiated by Laundry Manager C. W. Stacks, in a meeting at the Charlotte Health Spa. “Mr. Stacks was lounging in the sauna when he started talking with a probate accountant at the Spa. The accountant said that Mr. Tuble was in a deep coma, not expected to recover, and that he wanted to dispose of his stock right away.

“Mr. Stacks said that he might be interested, and he asked me to act as a sort of merchandiser,” Wilson said. “I agreed and Mr. Stacks decided to close the deal.

“By the time Mr. Stacks saw the accountant, Mr. Tuble had died, so we just bought out everything,” he said.

‘Everything’ includes several tubular racks, years of business records, a fat quantity of personal correspondence, Mrs. Tuble’s ancient family Bible, and of course the clothes.

Wilson has set up a rather intimate salon in his room in Belk dormitory. At any given time, there are two or three students gathered there waiting to romp through Wilson’s extensive collection of sizes.

Wilson said that because he had gotten a good bargain with the probate officials, he was selling the full tuxedos for $15, which is about 75% of the typical rental charge for one night’s use. “The white dinner jackets are going for $10, or with the complete accessories, $15,” Wilson said. “I had about 12 buyers during the first weekend of sales.”

Wilson declined to say how much Stacks had paid for the wares, but he admitted that they would make a decent profit if they were able to sell all the outfits. “We might have some trouble with some of the odd pieces,” Wilson observed, “and then there are some child’s sizes,” he said.

Down at the College Laundry there is a lot of speculation about the enterprise. A lighted sign suspended over the cash register reads “Think Formal... See Jack... Belk 326.” Sophomore Jimmy Shepherd, tending the revolving clothes rack, stated, “Mr. Stacks had Jack in mind from the first. He has all the qualities of a good salesman. He’s stubborn, very forceful, and quite aggressive.”

“He’s a real pusher for what he believes in,” chimed in Mrs. C. W. Stacks.

By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

The student senate this week endorsed a proposal which called for the location of the SGA and DAVIDSONIAN offices in the basement of Chambers, beginning in the fall of 1972.

The proposal, written in the form of a letter to the president drafted by Student Body President Ralph Peeples and DAVIDSONIAN Editor Rich Wilson, expressed the need for the offices of these two organizations to be centrally located in relation to the rest of the campus. Peeples and Wilson felt that the Jackson Court site for their offices which was proposed in the Union report was too far away from the center of activity.

The student leaders also felt that it was essential that the offices of their respective organizations be located near each other, since their functions are interrelated. However, much of this week's meeting was devoted to what Peeples called “house-cleaning business,” that is, the swearing in of new senate members.

Davidsonian Staff
Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

News Editor:
TOM AINSWORTH

Photography Editor:
BILL BARNES

Assistant Managing Editors:
BILL GIDUZ
BOB HOWELL
THOM NICOLL
MIKE TANNER

Copy Editors:
BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY

Assistant Business Managers:
RICHARD ROMEYN
RICH SMITH
PHIL STIKES

Assistant Sports Editors:
HOWARD BOYD
CHARLIE TERRELL

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
ROBERT TOUCHTON
GRAY WILSON

Contributing Editors:
TOM BRUCE
TODD EADES
DAVID HANIG
JIM HANNA

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKOM
KEVIN BRODE
PAUL MITCHELL

Photographers:
TOM CAMPBELL
DAVE DOTY
TODD EADES
FRANK ERWIN
JOE RODRIGUEZ

Circulation:
ROBERT GATES
GREG MITCHELL

Contributors this week:
Philip Bishop, Mike Maloy, and Bob Wright.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.Members and the nominations for various faculty committees. New senators sworn in Tuesday were rising juniors John Knox and Whit Whitworth, and committee appointments included rising senior Steve Suflas and rising sophomore Peter Alford to the Committee on Athletics, rising sophomore Rowan Crews and rising junior Bo Phillips to the Committee on Counseling and Guidance, rising juniors John Douglas and Tom Joanes to the Committee on Library Planning, and rising junior Dan Thorn to the Library Committee. Also at the meeting, Mike Scott submitted a proposal asking for $30 from the Senate to order and distribute coeducation buttons. This proposal triggered a rather complex Senate battle which ultimately led to a discussion of the right of Scott's committee to exist and of just where the SGA’s responsibilities lie. The outcome of this was the acknowledgment of the committee’s purpose, namely to publicize the coeducation issue, and the awarding of $60 instead of $30 for the buttons.

Slater Service To Relocate In Three Court Eating Clubs
By BRUCE MALOY
Staff Writer

The demolition of the College Union building this summer means that the eating clubs on Patterson Court will have a new neighbor next year. ARA Slater food service will be moving its operations to three houses on the court, according to unit manager Ron Scott. One house will be a snack bar—modified cafeteria. The cafeteria will serve breakfast, lunch, and dinner while the snack bar will be open during the day and evening. The exact hours for the snack bar have not yet been determined. Since this house will be similar to the cafeteria-snack bar towards the front of the Union, it is possible that the present snack bar will be open later this year to determine the most popular hours.

Another of the Slater houses will be a delicatessen-modified cafeteria. The delicatessen will have all sorts of sandwiches, sliced meats, and a pickle barrel as well as a charcoal grill for premium items such as steaks. The third house is planned as a buffeteria to be set up along the same lines as the present Sunday buffet. Students will be able to get all they can eat for a set price.

“Next year the board plan will be based on coupon booklets which will be the same as money,” said Scott. “The students can buy a coupon booklet for the year which will be divided into weekly segments.” Scott pointed out that under this plan students who do not eat breakfast or who are gone on the weekend will not be paying for meals that they don’t eat. “I don’t think that people who eat three meals a day will suffer, since they usually eat less at each meal than people who eat only one or two meals a day,” he said. “This has been our experience in other ARA Slater units.”

When asked which facility he preferred as far as food service is concerned, Scott answered, “I prefer the three houses over the present facility since this will allow us to give more variety and higher quality in the food service.” One problem of moving the food services is that there are only two vacant houses on Patterson Court and ARA Slater must have three houses. Unless two of the houses merge on their own, a house to be vacated will have to be chosen. Dean of Students Will Terry outlined the factors which will be considered if one house has to be singled out:
1. Standards of food service;
2. Fiscal responsibility;
3. Condition of the furnishings;
4. Care and handling of the house;
5. Co-operation with other houses and the system;
6. Internal cohesion;
7. Stability of membership (fluctuation in the number of members).

“Each house will be encouraged to write a brief saying why they should remain on the court and individuals from each house will be asked to appear before the Student Life Committee,” Terry said. “There will also be a questionnaire to determine freshman opinion of each house on the basis of how each house responded to them,” he said.

Members of eating clubs and national fraternities who were contacted held varied opinions of what Slater’s move would mean to them. Most felt that two houses would merge, so they weren't worried about their own houses being evicted. Emanon President Jim Thompson believes that the proximity of the ARA Slater houses to eating clubs will help the freshmen to mix better than they do now.