She Davidsonian, March 31, 1972 Page Three

Counseling Program Aids Adjustment

By PHIL BISHOP
Contributing Editor

How can the Davidson student cope with the problems of dehumanization and personal adjustment in an intensely competitive academic atmosphere?
Clinical psychologists, hall counselors, and faculty all play an important part in counseling Davidson students, according to Psychologist Meredith Hall
and Dean of Students Will Terry.

"How a college deals with maladjusted or unhappy students depends upon its values. If Davidson students are to have more
than the ability to respond intellectually, then someone must be there to meet their emotional needs," said Hall.

"Many students just don’t know who they are or what's going on inside them. They are looking for a feeling
of self, and they need someone whose main concern is dealing with those feelings," Hall stated.

Hall remarked that an all-male school often lacks emotional outlets for students. "Without girls, the display of emotion is less
accepted. I think coeducation would give the male student permission to experience more feeling," he said.

Lack of diversity in the student body tends to make Davidson "culturally isolated," according to Hall. "Because most students are
from the same background, there is little interplay of the forces present in society. Students tend to think they know
what to expect from their friends. This fosters an artificial atmosphere and reduces personal exchanges," Hall added.

Hall denied that this climate necessarily leads to an increased use of drugs. He remarked, "Many people who come to
me experiment with drugs, but drug abuse is the greatest problem of only a minority."

Hall emphasized the role of the psychologist as a listener. "My counseling ability comes not from formal education, but from
my willingness to concentrate on the student’s emotional needs," he said.

The college psychologist program will be strengthened next year. According to Vice President for Academic Affairs John Bevan, the college
will employ Hall and Psychology Professor W. B. Workman on a half-time basis, giving the equivalent of a full-time psychologist
on campus. With the expanded program, psychologists will be able to see only the more seriously disturbed students, Hall said.
"I saw about 90 students last year and probably reached just part of those with significant psychological concerns."

Hall denied that better-trained hall counselors could counsel students now seeing him. "Hall counselors can care for many students, but
I doubt they would feel comfortable with someone experiencing serious problems," he added.

Faculty members also may have limited effectiveness with personal problems, according to Hall. "It’s a misconception that faculty must be
interested in people. Professors focus not on students’ personal lives, but on their academic work. We shouldn’t ask a professor
to be a helping person unless he is excited about it," Hall added. "Then we should pay the adviser to
make that role meaningful."

Terry also emphasized the need for people trained to listen. "We want to concentrate on teaching hall counselors and faculty
advisers to relax with students and feel competent to listen," Terry stated.

Terry said the relationship between the hall counselor and faculty adviser needed to be strengthened. "Faculty advisers should be able
to work with hall counselors. Then we need some feedback on how effective faculty advisers are," remarked Terry.

Terry included academic counseling in the college’s overall program. "The main problem here is the sophomore who has (See COUNSELING,
page 10)

By BILL GIDUZ
Asst. Managing Editor

Great myths and misconceptions have arisen in the last few years concerning psychological encounter groups. They are viewed by some
with contempt as being a part of the new liberalism and by others as being an experience that will solve
all their problems. During the past four years, some Davidson students have been able to make their own decision on
the matter by participating in encounter groups organized on campus. Groups have been conducted by Dean of Students Will Terry,
former chaplain Scott Woodmansee, and sociology professor Carl Garrison. For the past two years, they have been organized by clinical
psychologist Meredith Hall. Hall serves with Professor W. Gatewood Workman as part-time clinical psychologist on campus. Because of the varied
types of groups that are conducted nationwide, Hall says that it is impossible to point to a single definite definition
of an encounter group.

Various Counseling Services Work Toward Common Ends

By THOM NICOLL
Asst. Managing Editor

A survey of several area colleges indicates that counseling services vary widely, though stated purposes are nearly identical. U.N.C. at
Charlotte provides a counseling center for its students staffed by three professional counselors, a psychometrist, and a secretary. Though each
counselor teaches one course per semester, his primary role is that of a counselor, according to Dr. R. B. Simino,
director of the counseling center.

"Small, selective schools seem to conceive of every faculty member to be a professional counselor. But faculty interests and concerns
don't always run in that direction, and they can't meet students’ needs adequately," he said. Simino did admit that the
faculty can be useful in counseling if they are given some training. College in Charlotte seems to fit Simino’s analysis.
According to Dean of Students Diane Del Pizzo, no counseling is provided at Queens inHere is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"We do have two interns from UNCC, but we primarily depend on our faculty, particularly the psychology and religion departments,
to informally help students who have needs," she said. Del Pizzo said that her office acted as a referral service
for counseling available outside of the college, but that more help should be provided within the college itself.

Wake Forest University has available for students a counseling center staffed by the equivalent of two and a half full-time
counselors. David Hills, the only full-time counselor in the center, said that, ideally, the center should provide general, preventative assistance
to the entire student body, but that lack of time required that the counseling center concentrate on the serious and
specific problems of a relatively small number of students. Hills said, "We are now trying to train the graduate students
who serve as residence hall counselors in some counseling techniques."

Hills referred to a study that the counselors had made in regard to where most students turn for help. The
general pattern was to first seek help from fellow students, then from faculty members or parents, then as a last
resort to come to the center.

Winthrop College is planning a counseling center which will place primary emphasis on the health of the community as a
whole rather than on lengthy individual analysis and counseling. According to the Winthrop student newspaper, the college will hire one
Ph.D. to direct the program, who will be shared with the psychology department, and a full-time, 12-month counselor. The center
plans to work in conjunction with a group of paraprofessionals, many of them members of the faculty, who have had
35 hours of intensive training in counseling.

(Staff photo by Barnes)

LONELINESS
Many students find they have no one to relate to here.

Students Support Encounter Groups

Personally, he tries not to pin down a "name of the game" in the groups he facilitates. Hall uses the
word "facilitates" rather than "conducts" because he likes to emphasize that he is as much a part of the group
as anyone else. "In my groups, we may get angry, but that's not the purpose of the group. I try
to have a group where the potential for people to be what they are without facades is there, so they
don't have to pretend to be what they aren't."

There have been five of the groups so far this year and several girls from Queens, Johnson C. Smith, and
Davidson have participated. Each group is comprised of eight to 10 people. They are conducted at Hall’s home near Salisbury
and run from Saturday until Sunday afternoon.

Hall's groups are run with a wide-open, almost non-existent format. Rather than set subjects of discussion, everyone simply sits down
in a room until someone says something. As Hall describes it, "At first you just sit there looking at each
other, but then people try to do things and you just bump into each other for a while. Everyone wants
to be open and relaxed because they feel that's a good thing to do. It comes about sometimes in an
ungainly fashion and you eventually get to a point where you realize you're at an entirely different point than you
started from," he said.

Sophomore Todd Eades explained it as "feeling closer to the people in the group and people in general. You tend
to see people as regular people like yourself with problems and desires and goals and frustrations."

Cecil Burney, chairman of the SGA psychology fund, added, "It is a feeling that encourages people to be more flexible
and spontaneous. It gives you a chance to express your real feelings and meet people on a deeper level."

Most of the Davidson students who have attended one of the groups seem to feel that the experience was worthwhile
but does not cause any dramatic turnabout in lifestyle. Senior Steve Cross said, "No one was in any sense cured
of anything that was wrong, but we were at least able to face up to our problems and we resolved
to do something about it. I came away feeling that I got a load off of my chest."

While admitting its overall value, there were also some reservations among Davidson students. The intensity of the group Freshman Ken
Fabert was in disturbed him. "It got almost laborious because it was so intensive and extensive. You felt forced to
talk so a lot of times the talk was contrived. You had to say things about people when you had
nothing to say."

The future of encounter groups at Davidson is somewhat uncertain. This year they were funded by the student government and
the Union Board. Next year’s funding is expected to come partially from the college as well as from the Board
and Student government. Hall is quite willing to continue groups here, and he sees their value as being especially great
at a school like Davidson. "At a school like Davidson you have an overabundance of intellectual demand, you cater to
the intellect in almost everything. A place is needed where people can experience that they have feelings. I'm completely committed
to the idea of encounter groups."
