GRAY WILSON

McDavid’s Patterson Farm Experiment

There is a farm by the name of Patterson in the town of McDavid, where long ago a great many creatures of the forest, all of good breeding, lived and played. Their favorite spot was the great Pond of Plenty. Also in McDavid was a large hill on which grew a giant Onion where other less fortunate animals lived, jealous of the wonders of the great pond.

Over all this reigned a great white hunter, pale as a bean sprout, tenant of the farm. His only distinguishing trait was his intense distaste for frogs, and there were many frogs around the pond. All was well until the great war. The hunter, armed with all sorts of verbal pollution called “principle,” marched on the pond with his “trustee” gun to extirpate the teeming frog population. Tampering with the ecology is a dangerous thing, but what the hunter wanted was to open up his farm to all creatures, even those of the great Onion on the hill, that they might plunder the treasures of nature on Patterson farm.

For a while his grand plan succeeded and all manner of wildlife burgeoned around the pond. There were flies, bees, yaks, turkeys, lizards, and all sorts of scaly amphibians at play at the pond from which they had been barred for so long. Only occasionally did a frog rear its hated head to secure its quota of insects with its sticky tongue. The frogs had to rely on their instinct alone to survive since the hunter had the only weapons. All was merry or at least stable for a while, but nature, with her cruel delight in irony, sustained the frogs until once again they began to claim the pond for their own, although the other creatures grouped together and roamed around in packs.

The great hunter, seeing the change and realizing that the frogs had survived, changed his tune as well. No longer the arrogant polluter, he saw the error in his ways, yet rather than admit his folly (which might make him lose his job), he recast himself as a beneficent figure and lorded over the farm with a gentle hand, allowing nature to take its true course.

Freshmen Aided By Hall Counselors; Nixon Termed Responsible For Murders

To the Editor:

As I was touring campus the other day a freshman stopped me to ask what a “Freshmen Get Tips on Life at College” was. Being a pre-med, I naturally knew that “FGTLC” was a social disease occurring on the Davidson campus which is similar to arthritis. Arthritis, you realize, flares up continually with changes in the weather, especially the changes for the better. It is known as a social disease because its cure lies in either the penicillin offered by the Union or Patterson Court.

Under the old system of treatment, Davidson experienced only a 60 percent ratio; the reason being that in the past the medicine was allowed to choose the patient. Now, however, our cure ratio has risen to about 90 percent, since we have allowed the patient to choose his own medicine. This social disease has been an extremely prevalent disease among freshmen at Davidson. Classic symptoms are apathy, cynicism, and distrust. A person with this social disease longs for past traditions and has his eyes shut to the future.

To combat this rise in social disease the college decided to concentrate on prevention rather than cure. The Davidson trustees hired the best experts in Drs. Terry, Smith, and Sterling. Under these we have assembled one of the largest groups of young social technologists in one area: Ralph Peeples, Jim Campbell, Larry Duncan, and Bruce Reichelderfer. These experts agree that an excellent prevention of social disease is a daily dose of Hall Counselor. Logic, advice, and friendship taken as needed from your hall counselor will certainly keep the Social Disease away.

After I finished my explanation this freshman asked me how I knew so much about this disease. I answered by saying, “Son, I caught the social disease my freshman year but I had too many people helping me to stay sick for long.”

Skip Holcombe ‘73
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Like many other students here, I found the results of the recent straw poll held on campus dismaying. I cannot understand how any student anywhere can cast a ballot in good conscience for the man directly responsible for the murder of eight students at Kent and Jackson State in May of 1970. The man who ordered the unconstitutional invasion of Cambodia is at least as responsible for those slayings as the national guardsmen who pulled the trigger at those demonstrators on those two campuses. The man who condoned the actions of those guardsmen shares in their guilt in an equal measure.

Those of us who were on this campus in the spring of that year can recall the horror and outrage we felt at the news of those murders. When I think about the events of two and a half years ago, of the outrage felt everywhere, and of the apathy so much in evidence today, I find it difficult to “forgive and forget.” I support without hesitation the candidacy of George McGovern.

Ralph A. Peeples '73
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The letter by one of our new co-eds, Kathy Huntly, which appeared in the September 28 DAVIDSONIAN, was a pitiable example of the rhetorical overkill characteristic of adolescent emotionalism. As an intellectual statement on female consciousness it carried the clout of a Rod McKuen poem. I sincerely hope Ms. Huntly doesn't represent the general attitude of Davidson co-eds toward Women's Liberation.

Ms. Huntly took exception to a DAVIDSONIAN cartoon which, in her opinion, depicted Davidson women as voluptuous feline sex objects. Since Davidson men are represented as mental titans (faculty please note), and not sexy pussycats, she considered the cartoon sexist. I find this interpretation very hard to swallow. Even after two years at Davidson (single-sex Davidson), I still find it difficult to view an animal with whiskers as a voluptuous sex object. Such attitudes are probably restricted to four-year veterans. Besides, for generations Davidson students have been represented by a feline caricature without feeling slighted. Would Ms. Huntly prefer a...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Canine mascot for the women? (Without knowing Ms. Huntly I can't be certain how appropriate a dog would be.) Surely such dualism would reflect blatant sexism. If a cat is good enough for the men, it ought to be good enough for the women. With many significant examples of sexual discrimination apparent throughout the college community (consider, for instance, the number of women on the faculty or in the administration) it is regrettable that Ms. Huntly singled out an imaginative and very humorous cartoon as an example of sexism at Davidson.

John McCartney ‘74
Davidson College

Outside Perspective
By LEX VEAZEY

Black Students Form Union

Black students at Williams College in Williamstown, Massachusetts, recently formed the Williams Black Student Union (WBSU) which seeks to provide a new orientation for black conception of its identity and role at Williams. The new WBSU hopes to increase black participation in order that the interests of the black community will be represented, acknowledged, and influential in all areas which affect their lives on campus. More WBSU members will be encouraged and supported in their efforts to become members of vital committees, College Council representatives, and participants in other officially organized activities where the need for black participation is viewed as essential.

WBSU's actual internal structure consists of five work councils: Communications, Politics and Community Organizing, Education, Cultural Productions, and Security and Maintenance. Each of these councils will have certain ongoing projects that together will involve the majority of the black student body and will affect the entire campus. For instance, the Communications work council will publish WBSU's newsletter. The Education council is directed principally with the on-campus academic success of black students. The Education council will provide tutorial programs to assist all black students in staying in school. The Culture work council already has arranged for the presentation of films, speakers, poetry readings, theatre, and poetry workshops.

USC Cannot Search Dorms For Drugs

Dean Elizabeth Clotworthy at the University of South Carolina recently pointed out that the administration does not have the right to search a student's room for drugs. According to Clotworthy, the administration has the right to make only scheduled room checks, and then only where the occupants of the room are present. However, a room can be searched by city police with a search warrant if a student is suspected of using or selling drugs. A student suspected by a hall advisor of using drugs usually is warned of the consequences of continuing drug use. If a student is on drugs and wants help, he can go to one of the counseling services available on the USC campus. As long as the student asks for help, his use of drugs will be kept confidential.

He even began trying to communicate with all the animals, including the frogs, and bought them ice cream, for as we all know, everyone likes ice cream. The animals now called him, affectionately, "The Emperor of Ice Cream," but the frogs still remembered the great war, and they kept in mind the thought that ice cream can be as cold as it is sweet and always melts under pressure. In the meantime, the frogs and other animals tried to get along with each other by meeting together and talking about how to increase the wildlife on Patterson Farm. Of course, the main source of new blood lived on top of the great hill where all the members of Patterson Farm originally came from. The problem was how to get the fresh new animals down off the hill to the pond. The only contact which the new ones had made with the farm was what they had eaten around the pond, but the hunter only allowed newcomers to eat "a la carte," which is French for "not very much, in fact, not enough." Abbreviated, it is "ARA."

Since all the animals of the farm were chary lest the balance in nature be upset again, there was to be an effort to make sure that all newcomers were properly oriented and distributed around the Pond of Plenty. This would keep the Emperor of Ice Cream passive. As a special precaution, all newcomers were to wait until the winter set in before visiting the pond, in order that the old hunter might have the whole fall to wander around the farm and talk to himself, as though nature still cared what he had to say after what he had done. There was one slight problem, however, in waiting until winter. It seems that in the days of the great war, some frogs fled the pond rather than face up to the hunter and had settled down elsewhere to fend for themselves. These members of a different SPE-cies croaked very loud and with little cool, but they were safely beyond the wrath of the hunter. The milder frogs at Patterson Farm wanted the other frogs to return and be a part of their plan, but the other creatures on the farm did not agree, fearful of the loud uncool croaking. Nevertheless, the frogs did finally decide to come to their old pond to eat at Random, but otherwise they traveled about freely, ignoring the wishes of the other animals, including the mild frogs, their friends at one time. These rebel frogs took advantage of the fall moratorium to go up on the hill and invite new creatures to their own little farm before the animals at Patterson had their chance. Some of the new creatures, unaware of the joys of Patterson Farm, joined the renegade frogs. And all this time the other animals at Patterson could only wait for winter and wonder of the future, wiser in the knowledge that much misery can come from the pious ignorance of an old hunter.

There is one other experimental farm that grew up recently in McDavid that deserves mention as an appropriate sequel to this story. This farm began this year and is known as Ney House, a place where a group of male amphibians live homogeneously. The house is called Ney after the great Charles Schultz, but the important thing about it to remember is that from places such as this come the great white killers of the future.