we are at ee . . a 5 THIS at The Davidsonian March 31, 1972 Page Nine od sterch 3 % ®e f Fegan, marc | scott, Martin Solve Problems : 2 p.m. Tennis with William and Mary here = Ls 9 : all day Furman Invitational Golf Tourney a ° ‘ “s e a Greenville, S.C. | In P { PE fem t 4 if Saturday, April 1 5 | Proficiency Test System 4 1:30 p.m. Baseball with The Citadel (2) here Pe 2 3 p.m. Tennis with Wisconsin here | By JOE EARLE Under this system every stu- “We had trouble orienting = 2 p.m. Rugby with Duke Durham es Sports Editor dent at Davidson must pass freshmen to the operation of A all day Track at State Record Relays Columbia. S. C. Despite some organizational five proficiency tests by the end the program,” he said, ‘‘and “ Monday, April 3 and scheduling problems, Dav- of his sophomore year. also with the system of advisors 4 p.m. Golf with N. C. State here idson’s new system of physical These tests may be taken any we set up. Tuesday, April 4 education seems to be working time during the first two years Initially, each freshman and 1:30 p.m. Baseball with Furman Greenville, S.C. out, according to Director of of a student's career, with or sophomore had one coach as a 2 p.m. Tennis with Hope here Athletics Tom Scott. without the benefit of gym class- Physical advisor. That proved Thursday, April 6 The new system involves the es. to be an unworkable situation, 2 p.m. Tennis with Purdue here use of “proficiency tests” to According to Sterling Martin, according to Scott, and now all 3 p.m. Baseball with East Baptist here determine a student's grade in director of the physical educa- the arrangements are handled physical education. tion program, the tests are de- by Martin. K. Keeter’s 79 By JIM HANNA Contributing Editor Final IMAC volleyball action began this week, with the four best teams in each of the three leagues having a final shot at the goal which they have been aiming for all season. In first round action, the KA’s were upset by the Pax II team, and Sentelle 3A squeaked by their elders of Emanon I in the upper bracket. In the lower bracket openings, Sentelle 3 completed a freshman sweep by beating the F&M Given Nod In IMAC Volleyball Semis Pikas, and spiked the classmen of Watts III. Keeter’s and the Sig Eps received byes in the first round, while Pax III and O.B.G. had charity slots in the lower lineup. In the second series of games, the co-favorites Keeter’s destroyed Pax I, the SPE’s got the best of upstart freshmen from Sentelle 3A. Pax II eliminated the other freshman threat, Sentelle 3, and choked off an O.B.G. rally to keep their chances at the title under- Linksmen Hopeful In Furman Tourney By TOM SOOS Staff Writer After being beaten by William and Mary last Tuesday, the Davidson linksters hope to put in a good showing at the Furman Invitational Match today. Concerning last week’s loss, Coach Tom Scott stated that Rusty Boyd was very impressive in the Cats 13½-7½ effort. Boyd shot a 78 at the Charlotte Country Club, one William and Mary player did better with a 77. Boyd was not available for a comment because he is in South Carolina preparing for the Furman match. Scott also stated that the reason for some of the bad scores was that the course was quite wet. The Furman Invitational will be one of the best tournaments that the linksters will participate in this year. Among the schools represented will be Tennessee and Georgia, two really fine golf schools. Scott feels that Davidson does not hold much of a chance to place in the tournament but said that it would give the players a chance to compete in top competition and that some individualswould do pretty good. He also hopes the tournament will help prepare the team for the Southern Conference Tournaments. In the Conference, the teams to watch for are East Carolina and Furman, according to Scott. East Carolina edged Furman in last year’s tournament and Davidson finished fourth, with third place going to Citadel. The tournament in Greenville is not the only action for the linksters in the coming week. This afternoon the number two team will face a team from Trenton Teachers College, Trenton, New Jersey. On Monday, the number one team will host N. C. State.

"Those who make peaceful revolution impossible, will make violent revolution inevitable." - John F. Kennedy

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what "low net cost" really means.
Hal Mapes
Jim Roy
892-1467
1424 ROBERT T. STONE
District Agent

alive, as they remained the major threat of the lower bracket group. In the semi-finals, it will be Pax II against the F & M squad, while the Keeter’s and SPE’s vie for the upper bracket's top position. "I'd say that the two favorites would have to be the Keeter’s and Fanny & Mabel," said the KA’s player-coach, John Brandon. Fanny & Mabel leads the current IMAC standings with 799.2 points. The SPE’s are in third place with 581.9, and Pax is tied with the SAE’s for fifth, with 445.9. The Keeter’s have played only basketball and volleyball, and consequently have no cumulative point total. The team with the best overall record for volleyball games will receive 160 points, with ten bonus points for winning the tournament. Teams in the top five in overall point standings, but which did not make the semi-finals of the volleyball contest, are the second place Dells, with 622.48 points, and Emanon, in fourth, with 457.18.

The next move is up to you! Where would you rather live after graduation? Phoenix? Dallas? Los Angeles? Boston? Denver? Or Miami? NML has an internship program for juniors and seniors that will get you ready for a rewarding career job in the place you've always wanted to be. It’s your move. Give your future a place to go! Call Jim Roy or Bob Stone, District Agent 892-1424 for all the details.

With the new program, the system has achieved some of its goals. It has lessened the class load a great deal, and allowed the coaches to teach classes in their individual interests. “The enrollment in gym classes has dropped to about 200-250," Martin said, "as opposed to about 400 last year.” Martin said that the new system has encouraged students to participate more in the “exotic” programs offered by the department. Since a student must take a proficiency test at the end of every course, he is more likely to opt for a class that teaches a sport about which he has little prior knowledge. The biggest problems Scott indicated were in the transition to the new program. The biggest problems anticipated by both Martin and Scott concern sophomores who do not fulfill their requirements. “If a student has not passed five proficiency tests by the end of his sophomore year,” Scott said, “he will be put in a class in the fall.” This class will have required attendance (the others do not) and will likely be in what Scott calls “conditioning.” “These classes will be required according to the guidelines of the new program,” Scott said, “and each student will take one a term for every credit he is behind.” Other than this problem with rising juniors, both Scott and Martin feel that the program is operating smoothly at present.

Whatever you want, we've got it!
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Field Jackets — P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, 170 N. Main, N.C.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.
“After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
Salads
Desserts
Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.