Che @Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR NOVEMBER 10, 1972

Dual Responsibility

A poll taken among last year’s graduating seniors indicated a serious deficiency in post-graduate preparation by Davidson’s faculty advisors. The SGA will poll the current students today about whether or not they feel the current advisor system to be adequate and beneficial. Without wishing to influence the results of that survey, we would guess from past experience that students who respond will express criticisms of the current program.

Adequate, knowledgeable advising as to course requirements, preparatory study, and application possibilities and procedures for graduate schools is seriously lacking in many areas, most particularly pre-law, in which many students do not even know whether or not there exists a “pre-law” advisor as such. In the past, freshman advisors have often signed course selection cards in a matter of seconds without the care and attention which should be given a student’s course choices. Hall counselors have attempted to balance their freshmen’s class load, but juniors are certainly not prepared to advise students as to requirements for graduate study or possible areas of post-graduate employment.

The fault does not lie completely with the advisors, for often they feel their advice unwanted or unneeded in the face of a strong-minded freshman; therefore the student may get the impression that the advisor is uninterested or not of great use in making future plans. Innovations such as this week's Freshman Conference Recess, which gave students a chance to talk with their advisors at length without the demands of class assignments and pressures, can contribute to a more effective advising program. Such a program will also benefit upperclassmen if the college does indeed include all four classes in next year’s recess. It is clear, however, that the current status of faculty-student relations and the present system of advising need to be strengthened. Since improvement in these areas will only develop through candid discussion and cooperation between faculty and students, both must take the initiative.

Replacing A Coach

For the second time in two years, Soccer Coach Harry Fogleman has submitted his resignation. Last year, Fogleman said he wished to retire, but his resignation was turned down because the administration was unable to find an adequate replacement. Now, after his eleventh season as coach, Fogleman wishes to retire again. He has done an admirable job during his soccer coaching. Though he is not primarily a soccer coach, he has guided the team to two Southern Conference championships, and to the eliminations this year. But the time has come to replace him as soccer coach. Fogleman himself admits that he does not have the time to commit himself fully to the soccer program, due to the pressures of the tennis team and the administration's desire to start a girl's tennis team.

The administration has received a great deal of criticism in the past years about their support for the minor sports. Several groups, especially the soccer team, have felt that they have been slighted in favor of the larger sports. The team needs a new, stronger coach. During the past season, Fogleman has not kept a tight enough rein on the team. He stated this week that the entire team had only shown up for practice twice the entire season. The soccer team has proved itself to be one of Davidson’s strongest athletic groups. The challenge to the administration is now to find a qualified coach who will meet the needs of the team.

‘Son Of Schmilsson’ Bombs In Spite Of Four Good Songs

A REVIEW By JOE EARLE

The ardent record-buyer is often an odd creature. He generally sees pop music as his personal guide to Truth, and idolizes the people who play it. He keeps up with his heroes' latest meanderings, following their exploits with the fervor past generations have reserved for movie stars and war heroes.

Harry Nilsson has always been one of my special favorites. I am one of those Nilsson lovers who thinks that everything Harry touches turns to gold. After all, Nilsson is a complete master of his music. He writes almost perfect melodies and lyrics. He can fit any mood, and he has been responsible for some of the finest bits of plastic to come out of any studio. Nilsson’s greatest mastery has always been his dominance of the studio. He pushes his music to all possible limits for recording, and has utilized the studio better than all but a handful of artists. He ranks up there with Brian Wilson, Phil Spector, and Randy Newman.

But on Nilsson’s newest album, he lets the studio get the best of him. Loath as I am to admit it, “Son of Schmilsson” is a bomb. This album lacks all the things that made Nilsson’s efforts in the past memorable. It is not funny, it is bitter. It is not melodic, it is repetitious. But worst of all for a performer of the calibre of Nilsson, a lot of the songs are in plain bad taste.

This is not to say that everything here is a failure. There are four true gems. “Joy,” for one, is absolutely beautiful. It is a perfect country and western satire, and in less than four minutes, Harry effectively destroys every Kristofferson imitator in Nashville. “Ambush,” despite its bitter lyrics, is also a fine piece, and “Take 54” is good ole bawdy rock and roll. But much of the rest is just trash. “Remember” is a Randy Newman satire that falls on its face. Nilsson tries to perfectly imitate Newman's style (and to a certain degree, his own), but the humor gets lost somewhere in with the cellos. It just doesn’t work. But the low point of the album is “I’dRather Be Dead,’ a ridiculous piece of fluff in which Harry tells us how much he hates old people. The worst thing is that the chorus is sung with some group that sounds like the St. Louis Aquarium Choir, and comes complete with boys’ and girls’ parts. It's repulsive. I'll still defend Nilsson. His albums, beginning back with ‘1941 Pandemonium Show’ and ‘Aerial Ballet,’ are all works of genius. If you don't have ‘Harry’ or ‘Nilsson Schmilsson,’ go out and buy them. If you have got all Nilsson’s records, you might be interested in ‘Son of’ as a conversation piece. But otherwise, I can't recommend it. Even the most ardent record maniacs don’t buy an album for four good songs.

Entertainment
By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

‘Doll House’ continues at the Charlotte Little Theatre with performances Nov. 10, 11, 16, 17, and 18 at 8:30 p.m. and this Sunday afternoon at 2:30. Though written in 1879 by Henrik Ibsen, the play was revived on Broadway last year as an argument for women's rights. It also introduced a new technique to the theatre when Ibsen set up a situation that was in direct imitation of reality, letting the story tell itself. Student tickets are $1.50.

Elton John will appear in concert Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Charlotte Coliseum. Family will precede him. Tickets are $4, $5, and $6.

‘Aida’ will be presented in English by the Charlotte Opera Association this Sunday at 2:30 p.m. and Monday at 8 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. With music by Verdi and libretto by Ghislanzoni, the opera tells the story of Aida, slave to the Princess of Egypt. The story is set in Ancient Memphis and Thebes. Student tickets are $2.

‘Beryozka’ will present Russian folk music Wednesday at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. Admission to this Community Concert presentation is by season ticket only.

‘Kiss Me Kate,’ a Broadway play by Cole Porter, will be presented Tuesday night at 8 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. Tickets are $5, $6, and $7.

‘Shame,’ a 1969 Swedish movie directed by Ingmar Bergman, continues the Kino Fine Film series this Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Golden Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum of Art. Admission is by season ticket only.

‘Fiddler On The Roof,’ by Stein, continues at the Pineville Dinner Theatre. Robert Falk stars. The buffet opens at 7 p.m. with the curtain rising at 8:45. Tickets are $7.50 Sunday, $8.50 Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, $9 Friday, and $10 Saturday.

‘Under The Yum-Yum Tree’ by Roman continues at the Independence Dinner Theatre. The buffet opens at 6:30 p.m. with the curtain rising at 8:30. Tickets are $8 Thursday and $9 Friday and Saturday.

Paintings by Boyce Kendrick will go on display Thursday in Carol Hall at Queens College. They will remain for a month.

To The Editor:

I just could not believe my eyes this past week, when I received the Oct. 20 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN and read the article concerning the black demands recently presented to the administration. Unfortunately, the article did not make clear all of the demands; however, from those listed I must say that the blacks have a hell of a lot of nerve. The infirmary might consider giving them a large dose of appreciation. Like many of their white brothers at Davidson, rather than opening their eyes and seeing what they have, they are under the impression that everyone else has it so much better and they are the only ones with problems. They overlook the opportunity to bring about change at Davidson by working with the administration. They overlook their financial aid, the social budget they receive to furnish and hold activities in their private section of Lingle Manor—money taken out of the tuition paid by the white majority—and they have forgotten that blacks are eligible to receive financial assistance just to visit the campus as a ‘prospective’ student. Furthermore, the blacks have one major advantage over the white majority. By being in a minority, the opportunity to find someone who has mutual interests and mutual problems is greatly enhanced. Do not the blacks at Davidson have a fairly close bond between them? Try to find twenty other students at Davidson who are so close and have so much in common.

In reference to their demands for an exchange program, it has always been my understanding that Davidson encourages juniors to study off-campus. A black need only take the initiative and develop his own junior year study at a black university. The number of Davidson students presently studying in England demonstrates the ease in arranging such a program. The time and energy they have wasted by simply complaining could easily have been spent working with the college in attracting black coeds to attend Davidson. At a time when the college is working to increase the number of coeds and when money is available specifically for recruiting blacks, it should be easy to assure that ten percent of the coeds are black. The white students who wanted coeds worked with the college to get them here. They did not sit back and wait for the administration to do it. If the blacks take time to look at what they have going for them at Davidson, stop dreaming of a non-existent Utopia at other schools, and attempt to capitalize on the opportunity to achieve their demands by working with the administration rather than simply attacking, they will see that they do not really have it too bad. BSC President Ron Gibson was one of the few sophomores last year living off-campus. Off-campus living, a section in Lingle Manor, scholarships, financed campus visits: A black student at A & T, Greensboro should have it so bad. I wish I had it so bad.

Thomas Redding ‘74
Marburg, Germany