Page Fight April 7, 1972 The Davidsonian

Blacks Gradually Move Into Politics
By JOHN CASSELS
Staff Writer

Two hundred years after Sam Adams spoke out for American independence, Samuel Adams of the University of South Florida is speaking out for the power of Black Politics in America. Samuel Adams, Assistant Director, Minorities Division for the National Democratic Committee, spoke on the Davidson campus Monday morning and evening on the topic "Blacks and the New Politics of the 70's."

"When we think of the new politics," Adams said, "we must think of the urgent situations which mold these new politics." Adams recently attended the Black National Convention in Gary, Indiana. He said the Black Convention did not represent a third party movement, but added, "Being alive and vital is not enough after 300 years. To confront dehumanization the Blacks needed so the National Black Afro American Convention had to happen."

The Gary Convention was trying to say to the political parties, "get off our backs; and if you don't we'll break your backs," he said. "The Democrats have made a remarkable start toward recognizing black men and their desires."

He pointed out that Blacks have started to work toward educating themselves to the system of political power. "Blacks are dealing in chalk, not talk. They are teaching nationhood and pride."

Turning to the problem of racial prejudice, Adams said, "There is an inability among the white administration to understand Blacks. White America is liable to misread a convention such as Gary... white people are sometimes hiding their prejudices in new words and terms: Law and Order, Neighborhood Schools... The real tragedy is the Whites and Blacks who think they understand. No one can really understand the welfare, non-educated situation from the outside."

Blacks: An Analysis
By HOWARD RAMAGLI
Associate Editor

Why is it that six out of the eight black freshmen are considering not returning to Davidson next year? Why is it that black freshmen failed to return last year? Why are black sophomores thinking of transferring? Why is a junior transferring last year? Some of the answers to these questions can best be found in the feelings of Davidson's black students.

"THE DESERTED VILLAGE"
This print, produced from a woodcut by Nigerian artist Colomon Wangboje, is now on display, along with many others in the College Union today. All prints are for sale during the Black Arts Festival which will run through Monday, April 10.

Caught In Two Worlds

Students which have been described as "being in solitary confinement, separated from the rest of the world," say most of the black students who attend Davidson. The exceptions to that statement are those blacks who are fortunate to have a mode of transportation, a car. This is only the beginning of problems which confront the black students in this "white middle class school." The fact is, as one black student put it.

Mazrui Considers African Politics Sacred But Secular
By THOM NICOLL
Asst. Managing Editor

Centering his talks around the theme of "The Sacred and the Secular in African Politics," Ali Mazrui, an internationally distinguished political scientist from Kampala, Uganda, delivered the final Reynolds lectures for the year on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday nights.

Introducing the series of lectures, Mazrui explained that he wished to "place the African experience in a global context, and to relate culture and politics, and religion to man, especially the black man." He took as a premise for his remarks that "origins are sacred."

In his first lecture, "Secular Leadership and Sacred Loyalties," Mazrui pointed to the secular "meritocracies" that have risen to power in many African States in which a small minority of well-educated people dominate the government. Though the positions are secularly-based, Mazrui said that the chiefly background of many of these leaders indicates residual "sacred" elements.

BBG Finance (Continued from page 7)

Buildings have been estimated at $5,000,000. The cost of dormitories is based on four structures, each housing 100 students at a total cost of approximately $4,125,000. Mr. Grover Meetze, Director of the Physical Plant, supplied the committee with these cost estimates. Additional housing for 400 students, combined with the present available housing for 945, will provide space for 1345 of the 1500 projected enrollment. It is felt this will be adequate in view of the current problem of keeping present facilities filled to capacity and the increase in the number of students who will spend some portion of the academic year away from the campus.

As stated previously, it is assumed that additional student housing will be financed through low-interest government loans paid over a 40-year period. To ensure the availability of funds for modifications of existing structures which may be required, we recommend that $875,000 be raised for the Plant Fund within the first three years. The subcommittee has concluded that coeducation is economically feasible provided endowment funds can be increased by $12,550,000; plant funds can be increased by $875,000; and that low-interest government loans are available for the construction of student housing.

He explained the prevalence of "spiritualized" politics by pointing to a widespread political nostalgia. Many Africans,he stated, “have a deep longing to go back to the ‘good old days’ including those of colonial control. This phenomenon arises from an idealization of the political past, which depends largely on the ‘political memory’,” he said. According to Mazrui, the two forms of political nostalgia are those of resignation and restoration. The former only idealizes the past, whereas the latter actually is committed to return to the past. Mazrui also discussed the importance for a developing nation to possess some degree of “political amnesia,” i.e., the ability to forget. He drew a parallel between the civil wars of the U.S. and of Nigeria, stating that perhaps in Nigeria, as in the U.S., the defeated rebels will continue to hate the ‘federals,’ but will nonetheless develop a strong loyalty to a united nation. Mazrui summed up the relationship between the sacred and the secular in African politics by saying, “African leaders who are otherwise radical, socialistic, esoteric, and who draw from the global pool of cultural heritage, still retain the ties to their African origins for nationalism.”

“The blacks here are walking a tightrope, a fine line between two worlds. We are like a stationary bridge, not really a part of either world, yet trying to get the best of both worlds.” Not all blacks feel quite like that. Some feel closer to the white society and its value system. Most have a very strong need for a relationship with the black culture in this country and the values it holds. Many feel an alienation from the college. This is most apparent in the realm of social life. They contend that most of the programming is for the white students. The parties and bands on Fraternity Court are geared to the tastes of the white students. The black students recognize that there are differences in tastes in music and life but wonder why there has been no attempt to help meet their social needs. The prime example referred to most often by the black students is the problem of mixers. “It's really letting you know where you stand when you go to a mixer and all you see is white girls.” This problem of alienation goes even further but it takes on more subtle tones. “It’s like racism has changed, and become very subtle,” said one black student. Each black student had different stories of how Davidson College continually reminds him that he is black. “I've been called Lester Strong so many times (I wonder if we really look alike?) that it’s ridiculous. It’s really bad knowing that you are being asked to participate or go places for looks’ sake only. You have to carry around your ID everywhere to show that you really go to school here. I can’t even get a check cashed or get into the gym without someone asking for my ID to prove who I am. There is a loneliness you have to endure which is beyond any white definition of loneliness.”

This loneliness that the students are forced to endure is even more pronounced because they feel that they are looked on as a group and referred to as “them.” They feel that they are not accepted as students but as “black students.” “We are not taken on an individual basis, and yet we have to stand together to be heard.” The Black Student Coalition is the organization through which these students attempt to be heard. It is also their only alternative to the social alienation of the Davidson situation. Yet, this organization is slowly being forced out of its facilities. It now occupies two rooms in Lingle Manor. This year, the kitchen facilities, which had been part of the Coalition office, have become part of the facilities designated for use by the art department. With the possibility of increased black enrollment next year, the facilities will become too small. The black students are skeptical about the increased enrollment. Most of them feel that Davidson has little that it can offer to incoming black students. Some rumors expressed a conscious attempt to inform black recruits on the campus of the realities of Davidson life. One black student explained that “Life (at Davidson) is all roses in the admissions office and all hell everywhere else (on campus).”

The hell experienced by each of the black students is different. Each has a different perspective on how to cope with his situation at Davidson. Three-fourths of the black freshmen are transferring or seriously considering that alternative. Others are happy in the lives that they have had to create out of a void. Some try to become absorbed in their studies. Each of these students is looking for some relief to the alienation and misunderstanding that they experience daily at Davidson. They want to be accepted as individuals, as students, and not be a token minority on this campus. The question they ask and which Davidson must answer is, “Can you see us as human beings and can you give up some of your white values to accept us as individuals?”