College Releases Alterations in 1972-73 Course Offerings

By RICHARD ROMEYN
Staff Writer

The Office of Vice President for Academic Affairs announced Wednesday the course alterations for the 1972-73 academic year. Five additional
courses have been added in the Sociology Department. Professor Hugh Plunkett will teach a course titled Indians of the Americas.
Sociology 113 (Minority Group Problems) and Sociology 150 (Medical Sociology) will be taught next year by Professor Robert Ruth. Minority
Group Problems will replace a course offered elsewhere. Medical Sociology is recommended by the department for premedical students. It will
survey the organization of medicine, medical aid programs, and the status and processes of medical prevention.

The Biology Department will offer biochemistry (Biology 115) for those who have taken two terms of biology. Every spring term,
the Biology Department hopes to offer a term of study at a research station away from campus. This spring, the
station was in Maine, and next year it will be Sapelo Island off the coast of Georgia. The departments of
Biology and Psychology will jointly offer Physiological Psychology. It will be taught by a team of professors, John Kelton and
Leonid Kimmel. It will focus on neural structure and its relation to psychology. The Psychology Department will also offer Advanced
Abnormal Psychology (Psychology 231) and Advanced Organizational Psychology.

The Geography Department will cease to exist as of next year, and all of its courses will be dropped from
the catalogue. The Music Department will offer a course in Vocal Performance.

By BILL GIDUZ
Asst. Managing Editor

In a letter to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. citing “incidents of conflict between security personnel and Black students,”
the Student Coalition and the Student Government asked him to clarify the college’s commitment to the black community. Student Government
President Ralph Peeples pointed out what he feels is a double standard on campus as the reason for the letter.
“White kids come on campus all the time and are never questioned, but Black kids and sometimes Black students are
automatically considered as being a thief. I know there is a security problem in the dorms, but we should find
out exactly what is going on before we automatically blame the blacks,” Peeples said.

Ron Gibson, chairman of the Black Student Coalition, elaborated that Black students are required to show their IDs on campus,
especially in the gym and dorms, and this type of incident is very rare among white students. According to Peeples
and Gibson, the relationship between Black students and security personnel is reflective of a larger issue in the college’s relationship
with the Davidson community. The letter made several requests to Spencer, among them to clarify: “What sectors make up the
college community?” and “What is the difference between the treatment of Black and white students?”

The Physics Department will offer The Physics of Music, which will be taught by Professor Locke White Jr. A Religion
course entitled War and Conscience, previously offered only at the seminar level, will be offered next year as Religion 152.
It will survey the attitudes toward war from the beginning of the Christian Era to the present. The only addition
by the History Department is a course on American History.will be a “minor entitled Roots of Current Racial Tensions” which
will be taught by President Samuel Spencer. It will deal with the background of current racial problems. The Art Department
will add the courses Modern Architecture and The Art of India (155 and 171 respectively), and will drop 131 (Classical
Art).

By DAVID ARANT
Staff Writer

Spring Frolics is now only a week away and a full week of entertainment has been scheduled. The action will
begin on Thursday the 13th. Three carnival rides will be set up by 3 p.m. and will run that night
until midnight. On Friday the rides will be operated from 1 p.m. to midnight and will run from 1 p.m.
to 3 a.m. Saturday. The tickets will be four for a dollar.

Friday night will feature Spencer Davis in Love at 8 p.m. This group will feature a female and two male
vocals and acoustic guitar arrangements. Also, there will be open parties on the fraternity court.

Saturday will provide a wide variety of activities. A special attraction at 1:15 will be Uncle Ned and the Pork
Chop Revue, “the infamous singing pig,” according to Jim Campbell, chairman of the Social Committee. The pig will perform again
at 6 and 11:30 that night.

The Second Annual Frolic on the Lawn will happen on the baseball field Saturday afternoon. A bluegrass group and a
rock group will play and free beer will be available to students until 6 p.m. Then a barbecue dinner for
$1.50 will be served outside the Union.

The main attraction of the weekend will be the Mark-Almond Concert at 8:30 p.m. in Love. According to Jim Campbell,
John Mark and Jonnie Almond are “two of the best studio musicians in England.” Their music is rooted in folk,
jazz, and rock and is “an intricate combination of all three.”

White Accepts 558
By JOHN CASSELS
Staff Writer

Acceptances for freshmen of the Class of '76 were mailed out last Friday afternoon. “We got the letters out a
day early, which we have never done before,” said H. Edmunds White, Director of Admissions.

This year there were 940 applications for regular freshmen and early decision admissions. This compares with a figure of 925
applications received last year. Acceptances were sent to 558 of the applicants, including 60 who had applied under the Early
Admissions plan. It is hoped that 300 freshmen will matriculate next year.

“On the applicant group, as best we could tell, it was essentially identical with the quality of last year,” White
said. Twenty applications have also been received from students wishing to transfer to Davidson. Applicants are to notify the Admissions
Office of their decision by May 1. The Admissions Office will then prepare a profile of the '72-'73 freshman class.

Friday, April 7
all day - African Art Exhibit, Union Lobby
8 p.m. - Shields Sisters Concert, Morrison Room

Saturday, April 8
8 p.m. - Shields Sisters Concert, Morrison Room

Monday, April 10
8 p.m. - Artist Series: Piedmont Chamber Orchestra, Love Auditorium
10 p.m. - Open End: Discussion on Subsidized Football, College Church

Tuesday, April 11
9 a.m. - Movie: “France & Spain,” Chambers Dining Room
10 a.m. - Movie: “The Road to Santiago,” Chambers Dining Room

Thursday, April 13
8 p.m. - Movie: “Elvira Madigan,” Perkins Auditorium

Friday, April 14
all day - African Art Exhibit, Union Lobby
8 p.m. - Sweet Briar & Davidson Choirs, Morrison Room
