Friday, September 22  
Saturday, September 23  
4 p.m.:  
Monday, September 25  
Wednesday, September 27  
8 & 10 p.m. Movie:  
Saturday, September 30  
8 & 10 p.m. Movie:  

Experiment  
By TOM AINSWORTH  
News Editor  

Davidson is now conducting its first experiment in residency living with 13 members of the Senior Class as the participants. Situated in Grey House, the group is comprised mostly of hall counselors from last year and others who have been both active in campus affairs and who share mutual interests. Even though the 13 selected were done so on very special considerations, the emphasis is not a closed society living in an exclusive environment. Richard Clay, one of the members and originators of the project, feels that "if the group ever got to be thought of as an elitist organization, I'd quit the program altogether."

The plan involves choosing a general topic of both national and campus concern at the beginning of the year, and giving specific weekly assignments to different members of the group. It will be the job of each to research his topic and ask interested members of the faculty to participate in the weekly discussions. In addition, special invitations will be given to selected freshman halls, as well as a general invitation to the community. In this way, freshmen will be given a chance to participate more fully in campus life and to meet more upperclassmen and faculty members on an informal basis. "We hope that this program will be educational as well as social," said group member Larry Duncan.

The 13 members also hope to get an interested faculty advisor willing to attend the weekly seminars and promote the idea to the rest of the faculty at large.

---

Coming  
All day APO Used Book Sale  
Chambers Dining Hall  
2 p.m. Union Board Meeting  
Ovens Room  
Freshman Mixer: Salem College & Queens College  
7 & 10 p.m. Student Films: "Take One"  

Thursday, September 28  
8 p.m. Fine Film: "Dr. Strangelove"  

Friday, September 29  
"Le Mans"  
Chambers Dining Hall  
7 p.m. Humanities Film: "The Titan"  
Love Auditorium  

Tuesday, September 26  
10 p.m. Christian Fellowship  
Martin Room  
2:15 p.m. Student Film: "Take One"  
Morrison Room  
7 & 9 p.m. Movie: "Zulu"  
Morrison Room  
Love Auditorium  

---

It is also hoped that the program will serve not only to involve the entire campus in relevant discussion, but to serve as a model for other dormitory living procedures both now and in the future. This last idea is of particular interest to both Dean of Students Will H. Terry and Scotty Nichols, Director of Student Housing and project supervisor.

(Continued from p. 2)  
Consequently, the housing office underestimated the number of rooms that would be needed by women students. Forty-six are living on the top two floors of Little, two are commuting from Statesville, another is living in the town of Davidson, and at the last minute the college decided to put eight coeds in a former faculty residence on Main Street. Generally, the coeds have been pleased by Davidson so far, but they do have a few complaints. Katie Early, a transfer junior fromQueens said, “The orientation activities have been geared towards men, and Davidson was not really prepared for women.” However, she also said, “Davidson is better than I thought it would be. I enjoyed my two years at Queens, but I wish I could have four years at Davidson.”

“Do you guys ever sleep?” asked Mary Hobbie, a transfer junior from Goucher. She and the other coeds interviewed have been annoyed by men who have wandered about their halls at 2 a.m. knocking on their doors and having water fights. All five coeds interviewed said they wanted their halls closed to men during certain hours. Yet all the women emphasized they didn't want their problems made into a “big deal,” for as Eleanor Macgrudger, an exchange coed from Sweet Briar, said, “I really like it here. Everybody's so nice.”

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7. — Wed. 9-12, — Sun. 9:30-10:30.
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N.C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

ERRORITE™ Bookstore

Revisions In Custodial System Aim For Improved Efficiency
By TOM BRUCE
Contributing Editor

In an effort to increase efficiency and reduce costs related to the Davidson custodial system, a number of changes will take place this fall. The basic change is that one custodian will no longer be assigned to a particular floor. Instead, Physical Plant Director Grover C. Meetze, Jr. has coordinated a system of team assignments involving custodians and maids. Custodians will work as a team to maintain floors, showers, etc. The present plan will also use maids to clean rooms weekly.

Robert J. Stephenson, director of personnel and administrative services, explained that the new arrangement will result in a five percent savings in wages paid to maintain the dormitories over last year's costs. The number of personnel slots was reduced by not replacing retiring custodians and by transferring certain custodians to other stations on the campus. Personnel that did not choose to become part of the team effort were aided by college officials in securing new jobs in industry, according to Stephenson.

“With this change, a transition period is expected as employees become accustomed to new routines,” said Meetze. “We are looking forward to student cooperation since some of the custodians and maids are new to the campus.” While Meetze stated that it is too early to appraise the merits of the new system, he expressed hope that both students and employees would forward “feedback” to him.

Sarah White, a Little Dormitory maid, commented, “I think it's gonna be a good system, unless the men decide that we're driving them too hard. Everyone knows that women work much harder than men.”

WESTERN AUTO ASSOCIATE STORE
Home Owned And Operated By: FRED H. LENTZ
Extension Cords And Other Room Supplies
103 N. Main Davidson
Phone 892-1496

Welcome Back To School
Compliments Of
PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
137 N. Main St.

VARIETY DISCOUNT
Best Buy on Paint Supplies — 10 Percent Above Cost
We supply all the Acrylic Art Supplies for Davidson College
20 Percent Discount Available on Stretcher Frames for Canvas and Acrylics
We also stock 8-Track Stereo Tapes of Original Artists for $2.99 and $3.90, along with a complete line of musical instruments for rental.
235 Catawba Avenue in Cornelius
Phone 892-1786