Vol. LXI, No. Eighteen The Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students FEBRUARY 11, 1972

When schools go coed

BY RICHARD ROMEYN
Staff Writer

Over 90 per cent of those students who responded to a recent poll on coeducation favored an increase in the number of women students at Davidson. Of the 891 questionnaires distributed to all on-campus students by the Educational Policy Committee’s Subcommittee on Coeducation, 537 were returned. Of that number, 487 answered affirmatively, 29 were opposed, and 21 were undecided. Slightly more than 60 per cent of the questionnaires were returned. While this was much less than the subcommittee had hoped for, it was greater than that of many questionnaires in the past.

Brown Patterson, chairman of the subcommittee, expressed disappointment “that a larger percentage of students did not reply.” However, both Patterson and Jody Turner, who is student representative on the subcommittee, were pleased that the results were so favorable to coeducation. Both felt that possibly the reason that little more than 60 per cent were returned is that students did not realize the importance of this particular questionnaire. Patterson said that the questionnaire represents an accurate picture of the student body’s feelings. He indicated that he has “no reason to believe that those who didn’t return it would have answered differently than those who did.”

Almost 94 per cent of the questionnaires which were returned agreed that Davidson would have a more natural environment if it were coed. Only four per cent disagreed. The majority of the student body shares the concern of the Admission Office over the quality of those seeking admission. Of those who returned the questionnaire, 458 agreed and 160 disagreed that Davidson must become coed if it is to continue to recruit outstanding applicants. Sixty-nine per cent of those who expressed an opinion thought that coeducation would cause the college’s academic standards to rise; however, 44 per cent of those replying were undecided.

Senate Considers Priorities

By BOB HOWELL
Asst. Managing Editor

Action in the SGA Senate meeting this Tuesday centered on examination of the Senate’s priorities, an appeal for improved security, and a discussion of self-scheduled exams. SGA President Ralph Peeples initiated a discussion of directions the Senate should take for the remainder of this year and next fall. Suggestions from senators indicated much concern on the issues of coeducation, governance, the social system, counseling programs, the proposed Grievance Committee, and student representation on faculty committees.

Peeples later said that he had discussed the idea of a grievance committee with Dean of Students Will Terry, and that, “there definitely will be one.” Junior Senator Mike Creasman and Freshman Senator John Hornickel were appointed as student representatives to that committee. Peeples also asked for volunteers to form a task force which will work for student representation on faculty committees which do not presently have student members, especially the Budget, Building and Grounds Committee, and the Admissions Committee.

In addition to concrete issues, the overall philosophy of the Senate was subject to suggestions. There were repeated expressions of the possibility that the Senate could get overly involved with procedure and thereby neglect the very constituents it attempts to represent. Senators emphasized the necessity to be a funnel for students’ ideas and to react to them, the importance of remaining involved with important issues that may threaten to die out, and the need for improved communication between the Senate and the student body.

“From hearing these proposals, it’s clear that if they’re carried out, this will be oneof the most successful Senates ever,” Peeples observed. Junior Senator Bill Meier presented a resolution that the security program be improved. “The college has a responsibility in this area to the students, especially to the coeds,” he said. Meier proposed that the Senate urge the college to hire a sufficient number of men to pro- (See SENATE, Page 2)

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11
3:00 P.M. Film Festival: Buster Keaton Morrison Room
8:00 P.M. Danny Cox Concert Love Auditorium
10:00 P.M. Glenn Mauney The Union Bar
10:15 P.M. Fraternity parties Patterson Court
10:30 P.M. Movie: “The Owl and the Pussycat” Morrison Room
12:30 A.M. Movie: “The Owl and the Pussycat” Morrison Room

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12
4:00 P.M. Keaton Festival Morrison Room
5:00 P.M. Supper Union
8:00 P.M. Concert: The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band Love Auditorium
10:00 P.M. Glenn Mauney Union Bar
10:30 P.M. Night Club: Bette Midler, The Hampton Grease Band Chambers Dining Hall
10:30 P.M. “The Owl and the Pussycat” Morrison Room
12:30 A.M. “The Owl and the Pussycat” Morrison Room
3:00 A.M. Breakfast Union

By DOUG BROWN
Managing Editor

Davidson is one of only 37 all-male senior colleges left in the nation. This discovery and others pertaining to the trend towards coeducation by formerly single-sex colleges were made by Assistant Professor of Biology David C. Grant as part of his duties as a member of the Coeducational Subcommittee of the Educational Policy Committee.

Many people have felt that Davidson would lose its distinctiveness if it were to become coed, but 62 percent of the students who completed the questionnaire did not concur, nor did they feel that it would lose the important advantages of its all-male environment. The argument that coeducation would cause an unhealthy increase in sexual relations met strong disagreement. The tabulation shows that 92 percent disagree. A large majority felt that instead students would become less preoccupied with sex and be able to establish meaningful relationships with women.

A more than average number of students responded to the arguments concerning financial aspects of coeducation by marking “not sure.” Thirty-five percent were not sure if Davidson could attract more full-paying students, 28 percent were not sure if the cost of becoming coed would be too high, and 42 percent indicated that they did not know what effect it might have. (See STUDENTS, Page 2)

Grant constructed a graph which showed that the number of all-male institutions has dropped from 111 in 1967 to 37 in the spring of 1971. If the projected trend continues, there will be no all-male colleges by 1973. Grant cautioned, “It is very dangerous to draw conclusions from limited data such as this. You can propose all types of interpretations of my graph.

“However, it is clear that over a four-year period an apparent linear drop in the number of single-sex colleges has occurred. What is far more important than this is the absolute drop in the number of single-sex schools.” Grant pointed out that the absolute drop in the number of all-male colleges was far greater than most people had thought, and many members of the Educational Policy Committee were surprised to learn that Davidson is a member of such a quickly diminishing minority of schools. Also counted among the 37 schools are technical, military, and Catholic institutions. Grant did not establish if the remaining 37 all-male colleges were of Davidson's caliber. Also, Grant did not ascertain the number of all-male institutions which have ceased to exist since 1967.

Grant said, “My graph brings into focus that a few years delay in Davidson’s going coeducational will make a difference. Everyone else has seen the writing on the wall, and they have gone coeducational. If the trend continues, there will be no all-female colleges by 1978.” Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan was so impressed by Grant’s graph that he sent a copy to each member of the faculty Wednesday.