Page Six

May 5, 1972

The Davidsonian

Students Mobilize For Campaigning

By BRUCE MALOY
Staff Writer

The Davidson College campus is displaying a wide spectrum of political campaigns this spring. There are representatives of national, state, and local candidates among the student body.

The general drift of the campaigns is to acquaint the students with the candidates’ names and to hold off on the issues and platform until after the primaries and conventions.

Students are participating in presidential campaigns for Democrats McGovern and Sanford and Jenness of the Socialist Workers Party.

Erwin Barron, student coordinator for McGovern, described his efforts as, “an attempt to contact interested students and to get them to work in the McGovern office in Charlotte.”

The supporters of Terry Sanford have rented an office in the College Union from which one of the most active campaigns on campus is being run.

District coordinator of the youth organization for Sanford, Danny Clodfelter stated, “Our goals are to canvass voters, set up youth organizations in colleges and high schools, and to spread Mr. Sanford's name.”

The only Presidential candidate to have spoken at Davidson thus far in the campaign is Linda Jenness of the Socialist Workers Party.

According to Steve Cross of the Young Socialist Alliance, Miss Jenness addressed a group of about fifty or sixty students when she came to Davidson in November.

Cross went on to outline the activities which he has been carrying on in her behalf. “We've had meetings with building and grounds employees, secretaries and administrative personnel, and cafeteria employees in order to encourage them to register to vote and to present the SWP platform.”

The two factions of the Young Republicans on campus are planning intensive activities once the primaries and conventions are over.

Dan Thorne, president of the Davidson College Young Republicans, stated, “We will probably support the candidates that win the nominations. I don’t feel that we should endorse any candidate now.”

Another group of Republicans on campus is led by George Kaneklides. Kaneklides, as well as being the president of the Davidson College Young Republicans Club, is the Vice Chairman of the N.C. Federation of College Republicans and Platform Committee Chairman.

In state elections of particular interest to some students, Nick Galifanakis is opposing B. Everett Jordan for U.S. Senate.

Galifanakis, who spoke at Davidson about a month ago, is represented on campus by Bill McKinnon.

McKinnon echoed the words of many other campus campaigners referring to their own candidate when he said, “The majority of the people I’ve talked to have said they are going to vote for him, but there doesn’t seem to be a lot of interest in working.”

Jordan’s campaign representative for Davidson is Bill Alexander.

“This is not as developed a campaign as Sanford's, but I hope to get the support of as many students for Jordan as possible,” Alexander stated. Last Saturday, Jordan was at Davidson.

In the governor's race, the only coordinated activity at this time is for Skipper Bowles. Campus coordinator for Bowles is Bo Phillips. Phillips noted that Jody Turner of Davidson is one of three state-wide coordinators for Bowles.

Lee Farnell is representing Allen Barbee, Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor.

In the ninth district Congressional race, Jim Martin is opposing Jim Beatty. Martin's campaign is being aided by the two Republican groups on campus.

Phil Dotts is Beatty’s representative for five colleges in a five-county area.

Junior Year in New York

Washington Square College of Arts and Science of New York University sponsors a Junior Year in New York.

The College, located in the heart of the city, is an integral part of the exciting metropolitan community of New York City—the business, cultural, artistic, and financial center of the nation. The city’s extraordinary resources greatly enrich both the academic program and the experience of living at New York University with the most cosmopolitan student body in the world.

This program is open to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to which they will return for their degrees.

There are strong and varied offerings in many areas, such as fine arts, urban studies, languages including non-European, mathematics in the College and at the Courant Institute, psychology, and others.

A qualified student may register for courses in all other schools of the University, including the specializations in Commerce and Education.

The University sponsors programs in Spain and France. Write for brochure to Director,

Junior Year in New York
New York University
New York, N.Y. 10003

BOOKS-POSTERS
ODDS & ENDS