Page Two, Two
October 13, 1972

The Davidsonian

Little Gives Views During Campus Visit
By MARK DEATON
Staff Writer

Edward H. Little, North Mecklenburg farm boy, Colgate-Palmolive Company president, and benefactor of Davidson College, visited the campus Friday, Oct. 6 to view the construction of the E.H. Little Library. Little was accompanied by his four brothers: Sam, Ernest, John, and Harold.

The American success story businessman is now 91 years old. He carries a cane, and his once bushy eyebrows have thinned and whitened, but Little remains a remarkable businessman. Little, who harnessed up horse and buggy to bring his brother Charles to Davidson during the 1890s, was given an honorary Doctor of Laws degree by Davidson in 1953. The E.H. Little Dormitory was dedicated in 1957.

After asking the distance between the new library and Chambers, inquiring whether any trees needed to be cut down, and correlating the architectural data with the present stage of construction, Little commented, "I think the progress is wonderful. I'm surprised to see you've come so far with it."

When asked his views on coeducational Davidson, Little replied without hesitation, "I think it’s wonderful. I'm glad the girls are living in my dorm."

"I’ve known hundreds of men who graduated from Davidson," said Little. "I've been in favor of Davidson increasing the number of students to keep pace with the educational needs of our country. However, we certainly don't want to bring in a greater number of new students than we can provide for," he added.

The 91-year-old benefactor of Davidson seemed quite pleased with the early construction of the E.H. Little Library. "I'll be looking forward to seeing how far you've gotten with it when I come back next time," Little said.

By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

Concern for the improvement of existing campus facilities seemed to be the major theme of the SGA Senate for the second week in a row as was evidenced by Tuesday's discussion session with College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

INSPECTS CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS
E. H. Little (third from right) visits library building site.

Senate Discusses Improvements

Plans for a new Union were of primary interest as Spencer called for the completion of a Union planning book to be the first order of business. "Ideally, yes, a new building would be the thing," stated Spencer in reference to one of the two major alternatives to the Union situation, the other being the renovation of the existing facilities.

Students Elect 17 To Senate After Low Key Campaigns
By LARRY MIMMS
Staff Writer

Seventeen candidates were elected to SGA Senate posts in very close races, five of which resulted in runoffs on Wednesday. Although there were almost three times as many candidates for Senate and Conduct Council as there were posts available, the voter turnout was moderate, with only 52 percent of the students casting ballots.

"We are quite happy with the number of candidates who registered, and a majority of the Davidson students did vote, and this is at least as good as last year," commented Chairman of the Elections Council Bob Corlew. Corlew added that although there were more candidates, less campaigning occurred in this year’s election than in last year's. Campaigns took the form of individual canvassing and poster making, with no major issues expounded.

Jim Wynn, a freshman electee, stated, "I feel that not enough publicity was given the SGA elections and this made it difficult for the freshman’s first election." However, seventy-five percent of the freshman class did participate in the election.

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors: DOUG BROWN, ALEC HOON
Sports Editor: JOE EARLE
News Editor: TOM AINSWORTH
Photography Editor: BILL BARNES
Assistant Managing Editors: BOB HOWELL, BRUCE MALOY, THOM NICOLL, MIKE TANNER
Assistant Features Editor: JOHN CASSELS
Copy Editor: BILL ELLETT
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKOM, JOHN LEMMON
Associate Editors: ALAN BARAGONA, ROBERT TOUCHTON, GRAY WILSON
Contributing Editors: TOM BRUCE, TODD EADES
Photographers: TAD BARNES, JIM DAVIS, PETE GOODMAN, ROB PETERSON, JOE RODRIGUEZ
Circulation: RICKY BELL, ROBERT GATES
Assistant Business Managers: CLIFF KIRK, RICHARD ROMEYN, RICH SMITH, PHIL STIKES
Asst. Sports Editor: DAVID MELTON

Contributors this week: Captain America, Bucky, Mark Connors, Bruce Corser, Mark Deaton, Peter Graham, Cary Herin, Harriet Hodges, Ralph Holloway, John McElveen, Larry Mimms, Bo Phillips, Richard Romeyn, Jim Sitterson, Gary Stewart, Val Van Horn, Gordon Wisenhouse, and Bob Wright.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.voted in the freshman senator-at-large contest, electing Steve Bell, Duncan Moore, and Mike Pappas to fill the posts. “We faced several problems in this election. The freshman senator-at-large ballot was incorrectly printed and the voting, which was scheduled for Wednesday, was changed to Thursday. We also had a problem in getting election officials,” stated Corlew. The Conduct Council race was decided by a runoff with Sam Upchurch and John Scandling winning. The three Belk Hall senators elected, Jim Goodlee, Bo Phillips, and John Walters, were chosen by 52 percent of that dorm. Richardson Hall elected John T. McElveen as their senator, and Little and North Main selected the only woman senator, Sue Schmidt. Doug Stitler was elected to represent Little and Grey Dorms, and Bruce Baird was elected to represent students living off-campus (only 37 percent of those students voted). Bob Edmunds will represent Duke Dorm. They all won their posts without a runoff. Cannon, Sentell, Watts, and Belk (east wing) selected Jim Wynn, Gary Stewart, and Jeff Dehoff as their respective representatives to the SGA.

Regarding the present library for such a purpose, yet due to other building priorities, “1975 would be the earliest possible date to get a new Union. I am also sure that C. Shaw Smith and the Union staff would prefer another location than having a Union placed on the outlying library site,” concluded Spencer. Along the same lines, a proposal to use the library for additional classroom space was dismissed by Spencer as being “unnecessary. We need better science and fine arts facilities without building more classrooms,” Spencer continued, alluding to a possible major grant to renovate Martin Science building as being “only a bird in a bush right now.” Commenting on plans for future dormitory expansion, Spencer indicated that a committee composed of members from various administrative and student offices were considering such plans at present. “The probable location of the dorms would be in the area to the northwest of Patterson Court and probably of a modular structure,” Spencer said. “The major factor in their construction is that we would like them to be as flexible as possible so that if in five to ten years from now our desires change, we could use the site in some other way,” explained Spencer. Responding to a question on the funding for new dormitory construction, Spencer made it clear that he wanted to avoid soliciting for contributions in order to raise the needed capital.

Students, ARA Officials Discuss Food Dilemma
By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

In a discussion session on Friday, Oct. 6, selected students met with Food Service Director Ron Scott and ARA District Director John Hitzel to talk over the present food situation and to suggest solutions. Also present were Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell, Dean of Students Will Terry, and Union Director C. Shaw Smith. Although nothing concrete came out of the talk, Scott stressed his desire to see the seating of another, “more representative group,” which he hoped would be able to come up with a final remedy. The meeting began with Hitzel delivering statistics from ARA's first week of operation at Davidson this year, the point being that in the stated period, students claimed almost the exact percentage of entitled meals as in past years, 62.1 percent. This means that the average student was claiming only 13 meals per week and spending about $1.99 per day, and that the present allotment of $2.51 per day seems to be enough, he said. At that point, two of the students present submitted the results of a survey circulated among the freshmen on Oct. 3 and 4, concerning opinions on various aspects of the Slater houses. The students suggested emphatically that the ARA was able to come up with its present statistics because students can afford to eat only 13 meals per week.

Aside from criticism, time in the meeting was devoted to solutions. One proposal stated that if the overall prices cannot be lowered, perhaps filling side dishes such as breads, potatoes, and salads could be provided in greater quantities to cut one’s appetite. A second suggestion was to establish a second board plan entirely separate from the present one; a board plan designed especially for the 20-meal people in which a flat fee would cover unlimited seconds only at Richards and Rusk houses. All of those present agreed that progress was being made but that any further food service discussion and possible alteration should involve a group more representative of the student body. No date was set for the next such meeting.