PLATE POWER (Staff photo by Barnes) Freshman Mark Rodgman smashes a hit against Central Michigan.

The Davidsonian
March 24, 1972

Promising Runners Entertain Quakers
By BRUCE BECKER
Staff Writer

Last Saturday the Davidson track team jumped into the deep water of the Furman News-Piedmont Relays. The Wildcats fruitlessly competed against the subsidized teams of the likes of Duke, Georgia, Ohio State, and Tennessee but the team, as a whole, showed promise. Today the team takes on Guilford in a dual meet here at 2:30 p.m. Coach Heath Whittle was very optimistic about the team’s...

Wilkerson Clouts Pace Cats
By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

Harold Wilkerson drilled a home run, his second of the game, in the eleventh inning Monday to propel Davidson to its first baseball win of the season, 5-4 over Central Michigan. Coach Tom Stevens was naturally quite pleased with the win, pointing out that “We beat a real good ball club. I hope it's going to be a turnabout for us.”

Central Michigan, second in the NAIA last year, forged a 4-2 lead in the top of the ninth, but run-scoring singles by George Weicker and Mark Rodgman sent the game into extra innings. “This was our best overall ball game,” commented Stevens. “We hit when we had to, played good defense, and got good pitching.”

Ross Manire turned in the best mound job of the season for the diamondmen, although he tired in the late stages. Frank Folger also pitched well in relief and got credit for the win. Wilkerson rapped three hits in four trips and knocked in four runs in his best plate performance to date. The Wildcats’ injury-riddled...

Linksters Stumble In Lejeune Tourney
By DAVID MELTON
Staff Writer

The Davidson golf team suffered its first defeat last weekend in the Collegiate Golf Tournament at Camp Lejeune. Jim Ray, a sophomore from Waynesville, North Carolina, and second on the team, characterized the performance by saying “we didn't play well at all.” He also added that this tourney slipped up on the team. “We thought the Furman tournament was going to be the first one,” said Ray.

Rusty Boyd, a junior and team captain, is the only player from Davidson who played reasonably well. He had a three-round total of 228 to lead the team. Other golfers from Davidson competing at Camp Lejeune were Dick Spinner, Sam Mitchener, Roy Reni, and David Faison.

Duke and East Carolina finished the tournament as the number one and two teams, respectively. East Carolina was the only other Southern Conference team entered in the tourney. Ray feels that East Carolina and Furman are the two teams to beat this year in the Southern Conference. He added that “they both have a lot of scholarship players,” and this is why they are tough.

The next outings for the team will be William and Mary tomorrow and the Furman Invitational Tournament next weekend. Ray labels the Furman Invitational as a “pretty big tournament.” He goes even further to predict a better showing in the Furman Invitational now that “we've already got one under our belts.”

...pitching staff received yet another blow this week when senior Mike Frye developed a sore arm. “We'll just have to depend on hitting and better defense and hope our pitching comes around,” Stevens sighed. The veteran Cat mentor is hopeful that freshmen Dwight Plemmons and Joe Duncan will develop into solid hurlers to fill the void left by...Injuries to Davis Beasten (out for the season), Rick Pipan, and now Frye. Pipan was X-rayed this week, and the results will determine his status for the rest of the season. It will be at least two to three weeks before he can pitch again. Besides Plemmons and Duncan, Stevens singled out Mark Rodgman, George Weicker, and Bill Todd as other freshmen who are making key contributions to the largely-veteran club. Weicker, an outfielder, “has good power,” according to Stevens. “He hasn't hit as well as I think he will, but he's big and strong.” Third-sacker Rodgman played what Stevens called “his best game defensively” Monday. “He's got an excellent arm, and is hitting the ball real well, but right at people.” Another rookie outfielder is Bill Todd, who “swings a real good bat and gives us good depth,” said Stevens. 

Looking toward the future, Stevens commented that “the pressure is on our pitchers, but if we can get enough runs to get them a few wins and some confidence, we'll be okay.” Wednesday's game with Pfeiffer was rained out, so the Cats carried a 1-3 record into yesterday's return match with Guilford. “We're real glad to get a second chance at Guilford,” commented Stevens. “We hit the ball hard but right at them last time.” The Cats meet William and Mary here in a doubleheader tomorrow in their first Southern Conference encounter.

They were facing top-notch competition in the News-Piedmont Relays, but each member bettered or equaled his best previous performance. Tommy Richardson, the conference’s star sprinter, was sick but ran a 9.9 100-yard dash. He did not qualify. The winning time was 9.3 seconds. “It was one of the finest meets they had ever had. There was terrific competition,” said Whittle. Whittle was particularly impressed with the prospects of junior David Crumpler in the discus, freshman Ricky Bell in the mile, 880 and mile relays, and Richardson, Mark Connors, Dave Peaco, and Ray Sweetenburg in the 440 relay.

Friday against Guilford, Sweetenburg will make a long-shot attempt at breaking the school record of 25 individual points in a meet. He was Davidson’s best performer at the News-Piedmont Relays, setting a new school record of 14.3 in the high hurdles. This week he will be entered in the long jump, high hurdles, 100-yard dash, 440 relay, mile relay, and possibly the 220-yard dash. In an interview this week, Sweetenburg commented, “I'm further along than last year about this time. This year I’m concentrating on the high hurdles and I hope to get down to 14.0 by the end of the year.” Freshman Bob Trumbo combines with Sweetenburg to give the Wildcats a strong 1-2 punch in the high hurdles. His best effort thus far has been 15.6 seconds.

Tastee-Freez of Cornelius
BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET
“It’s Incomparable”
Sandwiches — Pizza
Sundaes
50 FLAVOR SHAKES
10-9 P.M.
170 N. Main

Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Field Jackets — P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N. C.

Australia Needs Teachers Now!
Sick of Hassling Smog, Unemployment?
Growing Needs, All Subject Areas
For Full Information Send $1 to:
Intl. Teachers Placement Bureau, P. O. Box 19007, Sacramento, Calif. 95819.

“After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room
Desserts

The Hub
OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY

Page Nine