Page Two March 17, 1972 The Davidsonian

Faculty Views Possible Deficit With ‘Wait And See’ Attitude

By DOUG BROWN Managing Editor

The general reaction of faculty members to the anticipated $100,000 deficit in this year's budget is one of “wait and see,” mixed with a feeling of mild concern. A number of professors refused to comment specifically on the issue, basing this refusal, for the most part, on their lack of knowledge about the nature of the deficit. Some professors said they had not given the matter much thought, and there seemed to be a belief that there was not going to be a deficit, or it would not be as bad as the present “propaganda” put out by the administration implies.

Economics Professor Charles E. Ratliff, Jr., one of the few professors to agree to be quoted, said, “This is a financial problem being faced by a number of private colleges.” Ratliff pointed out that private colleges have been faced with their expenditures exceeding revenues. Ratliff felt that there was nothing unusual about Davidson's present plight, and he said, “I am a bit surprised that a deficit has not hit Davidson sooner.”

In Ratliff's view, private colleges are facing stiff competition from public institutions, which are less expensive due to their subsidization by taxation. “I would rather wait until I understand the budget difficulties more closely before making any detailed comments,” added Ratliff.

Davidson has budgeted a 5 percent return on the endowment. Kincaid said that a budget return of 6 percent on the endowment would make a $70,000 surplus possible, and not a $100,000 deficit. An increase of 1 percent in the budgeted return on endowment would mean that Davidson would not have a deficit for fiscal year 1972, which ends in June.

“An aggressive capital gains portfolio is the only way for Davidson to survive,” commented Kincaid. He pointed out that the conservative type of bond portfolio Davidson had until a few years ago would be inappropriate for Davidson's present needs. In the latter part of the 1960s, Davidson switched from the bond portfolio it had traditionally held. Until that time, it had held bonds which usually returned between 3 percent and 5 percent annually. Davidson, today, is pursuing an aggressive capital gains policy. Instead of holding bonds, Davidson now owns mostly stocks. As an example, this stock may return 12 percent annually—from 2 percent to 3 percent in dividends and from 8 percent to 10 percent in capital gains (gain in value of the stock). If Davidson's stock has a three percent dividend, this is quite a drop from the five percent return previously received on bonds. Therefore, Davidson cannot depend solely on dividends from stock as a means of revenue.

To rectify this, Davidson has decided to use five percent of the value of the endowment for budget purposes each year. Davidson may have to sell some of its stock to arrive at this five percent figure, but the value of each share of stock will hopefully have increased so that the endowment is not eaten away. Davidson takes the average value of the endowment for the past three years as the figure on which to base its five percent return. This method disregards the fact that the value of the principal may decrease or increase during the fiscal year under consideration.

Kincaid pointed out that Davidson switched from a bond to a stock portfolio just as the stock market was entering its recent difficulties, and this has hurt Davidson. Nonetheless, this is a wise policy, and the stock market is improving, and it should continue to do so, according to Kincaid. Fiscal year 1973 should...

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors: DOUG BROWN, ALEC HOON
Sports Editor: JOE EARLE
News Editor: TOM AINSWORTH
Photography Editor: BILL BARNES
Assistant Managing Editors: BILL GIDUZ, ROB HOWELL, THOM NICOLL, MIKE TANNER
Copy Editors: BILL ELLETT, LEX VEAZEY
Assistant Business Managers: RICHARD ROMEYN, RICH SMITH, PHIL STIKES
Assistant Sports Editors: HOWARD BOYD, CHARLIE TERRELL
Contributors this week: Bruce Maloy, Richard Romeyn, David Arant, Alan Baragona, Robert Touchton, Gray Wilson, Tom Bruce, Todd Eades, Jim Hanna, Steve Balkom, Kevin Brode, Paul Mitchell, Tom Campbell, Dave Doty, Joe Rodriguez, Bob Strand, Robert Gates, Greg Mitchell, Bruce Becker, Phil Bishop, Frank Soos, Bob Wright.

Published weekly at Davidson, NC 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, NC 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.be a food year for Davidson, if present market trends continue. “What lies beyond freedom and control?” was the question posed in a speech Tuesday night by George A. Miller, the Reynolds lecturer, on campus this week. Miller, formerly president of the American Psychology Association and presently professor at Rockefeller University, dealt with the topic of public concern over the threat of psychology to the freedom of the individual. “My concern is that psychology is criticized on every hand because it is being incorrectly viewed as trying to limit the freedom of individuals.”

The first part of this lecture dealt with the public's ideas of control and the supposed threat to freedom. Miller briefly explored the topics of psychology which are in the minds of the public, those of mental testing, psychotherapy, and control through feedback. Miller contends that in these areas the public sees psychology as a force of control over individuals. Then, Miller asked, “What is it that lies beyond freedom and control? Problem solving.” He went on to say, “The goal (of psychology) is not to control people; the goal is to solve problems.”

College Faces (Continued from Page 1)

Regional and class drives for money were being continued. A new twist will be added in the spring with a telephone campaign in areas with a large concentration of Davidson alumni, including Charlotte, Raleigh, Atlanta, and New York. “If Davidson shows strength financially while other schools are going downhill, Davidson will be eligible for more grants from foundations and corporations,” Arbuckle said. He expressed optimism in this regard, pointing to the fact that over the past three years, the money collected from the alumni has dramatically increased.

There are several factors which could cause a deficit, necessitating budget cuts and an increased effort at fund raising. According to Cornell, some of the prime factors are the following:
(1) Tuition: loss of $48,000 when only 301 freshmen enrolled instead of the planned 325.
(2) Student auxiliary services: a loss of $7,000 from room rent and other services.
(3) Tuition: a loss of an undetermined amount from upperclassmen who have left school for one or more terms for a variety of reasons.
(4) Basketball: a loss of approximately $35,000 because of lesser game attendance than was anticipated.
(5) Annual fund: an overestimation of the amount that would be collected.

Cornell announced that the Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee will meet next Monday to consider the budget. In addition to the regular faculty members, Cornell has invited Dean of Students Will H. Terry and two students. “Even though the faculty in its infinite wisdom did not see fit to include students on the committee, I felt that we should have some student input,” he said.

There seems to be a consensus of opinion that the possible deficit is everyone's problem, and not just the administration’s worry. As Peeples said, “Because we are in fact a community, the crisis with which we are faced is a legitimate concern for everyone, including students.”

(Staff photo by Rodriguez)

REYNOLDS LECTURER George Miller chats informally with students.

Miller Defends Psychology
By DAVID ARANT
Staff Writer

Miller felt that the public should be made more aware of this area, instead of the emphasis of public attention on the dilemma of freedom and control. After the lecture, John D. Kelton, professor of psychology, presented a Davidson T-shirt with an experimental rat on its front to Miller. Miller’s Wednesday speech was the “Evolution of Language.” In summing up his speech, Miller said, “There is an argument over whether man started to speak when the brain got big or whether the brain got big when man started to speak. I believe the latter.”

While on campus, Miller held several informal discussions over lunch and over coffee. At the Honors College, Miller gave a third lecture, which, according to Kelton, was “by invitation only.”

EPC Alters Pass-Fail
By BRUCE MALOY
Staff Writer

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) passed at its Feb. 21 meeting a motion which clarifies the responsibilities of a student desiring to take a course on a pass-fail basis. The motion states, “A student does not have to obtain the professor’s permission to take a course on a pass-fail basis, but he must have his advisor’s approval, and all class rolls issued by the Registrar will indicate students taking courses on a pass-fail basis.”

The confusion seems to have arisen from the phrase, “All class rolls issued by the Registrar will indicate students taking courses on a pass-fail basis.” Registrar Richard C. Burts, Jr. defined this point saying, “All rolls, not just those issued immediately before the end of the term, will contain this information.”