The Davidsonian
April 28, 1972
Page Three

Memories Return With Class Of ’22
By ALAN FORD
Staff Writer

Memories of four years spent at Davidson; memories both pleasant and painful, will come crowding into the minds of the Class of '22 as they return to Davidson for their 50th Year Reunion this weekend. The Class of ‘22, along with some other classes, will be honored this weekend during the festivities of Alumni Weekend.

The members of the Class of ‘22 will think back to 1918 and their arrival at Davidson as freshmen. They will remember the Jaybird Special, the train that brought them to Davidson. They will recall carrying their luggage to their dorms along with the other 127 members of the class. No doubt they wondered at the time which dorm they would be in. Would it be Georgia, Rumple, Watts, or Chambers? That's right. Old Chambers was used for more than classes then. Besides the five classrooms that it contained, Chambers also housed three laboratories and 72 sleeping rooms. Heating was provided by either a fireplace or a coal-burning stove. Coal was also used in the fireplaces; the coal was provided by the college. As a student, you only had to carry the coal from the coal pile to your room. Staying warm took a little effort then.

Most of the men in the classes at Davidson in 1918 were members of the Student Army Training Corps, or SATC. A regular branch of the army, SATC required the wearing of a uniform. The hat worn by the students had a special cord on it that looked like the cord on an officer's hat. Many students in the freshman class had come to Davidson just to join SATC. After it was disbanded in 1918 (the students were discharged during the Christmas holidays) several students, especially members of the freshman class, did not return to Davidson.

Probably the best-remembered event that occurred during the four years that the Class of ’22 was at Davidson was the burning down of Old Chambers early on the morning of Nov. 28, 1921. While the blackened remains of Chambers were being cleaned up, an interesting rumor was circulated on campus. It concerned the pillars that were in front of Chambers. The pillars were hollow and open at the top. The rumor said that a human skeleton was found in the bottom of one of the pillars. As far as can be discovered now, the rumor was never proven.

One of the early issues of the DAVIDSONIAN for the year 1921-1922 contained an article on the library hours. The article said that due to requests from students for longer hours, the library would now stay open from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. These extra hours meant that the library was now open for a grand total of seven and one-half hours per day. The library hours were from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, from 2:30 to 6 p.m. The article also contained a statement to the effect that if the students did not use the library during these new hours, they would be done away with. Fines for overdue books were listed in the article. An overdue reserve book would cost you 25 cents per day, while an ordinary book that was overdue cost the student only a nickel a day. Sounds familiar, doesn’t it?

The Class of '22 saw Henrik Ibsen’s “Ghosts” on March 14, 1922. There was quite a difference between the production put on at Davidson this January and the one seen by the students 50 years ago. The 1922 production was far from being a student affair, its stars were two prominent Norwegian actors. According to the DAVIDSONIAN, “Madame Borgny Hammer, the well-known Norwegian actress,” portrayed Mrs. Alving and did an excellent job. The sets were built by a company in Chicago.

RECOGNIZE ANYONE? (Photo by John M. Stewart)
Class of 1947 Vice President H. Edmunds White participates in...ceremony.

Old Heroes Face Young Cats
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Tomorrow afternoon two very different football teams will clash on Richardson Field in the annual alumni-varsity game. The alumni team is a strange conglomerate of past Davidson stars and present students. The alumni have fielded quite an impressive roster and will put many of Davidson’s record-holders and past grid heroes on the field. The Cats have only eight or nine returning seniors this year, and only a few more juniors, and so the team is inexperienced and lacks depth.

“We're a little bit skinny,” Dave Fagg, head coach of the Davidson gridders, commented, “but the team is reasonably tough and has great spirit.” The alumni team will be what Sandy Carnegie Sr., head of the Wildcat Club and coach of the alumni team, called “a collection of lawyers, doctors, businessmen and coaches.” One of the coaches that will go on the field tomorrow is Davidson Cage Coach Terry Holland. Holland will suit out for one end position. This will be Holland’s first football game since his high school days. The other end spot will be filled by Steve Heckard, past head of the Wildcat Club and last year’s alumni game organizer. A third player in the end-slot back category will be Jim Pinkney, certainly the oldest football player at Davidson.

“Jim played on the '26 Davidson team, the state champions,” Carnegie said. “To do that they beat Duke, North Carolina and N. C. State.” These ends will be well served in the alumni’s passing offense, for two of Davidson's greatest passing quarterbacks will steer the alumni offense. Gordon Slade, the quarterback that directed the Cats to the Tangerine Bowl, will start in that position. Slade holds the school records in total offense, and almost any passing record there is. Slade will be backed up by Jimmy Poole, the man who preceded him as quarterback for the Cats. Poole was Southern Conference co-player of the year in 1968.

Although Carnegie predicted that his team may be weak on defense, he will have the services of Jack Wade to fall back on. Wade holds the school marks for most intercepted passes, and turned an interception into a 96-yd. touchdown to upset N. C. State in 1950. The varsity will offer a few changes in the game, but according to Fagg, no major surprises can be expected.

“We’ve changed to a ‘60’ defense,” he said, “with six linemen. On offense we’re using split backs. We’ll throw some and run the inside and outside veer. We’re still very small for an inter-collegiate football team,” he said, “but this year I feel we’re quicker.”

Alumni Weekend Events

Friday, April 28
12:45 p.m. Convocation Luncheon
Address: Joseph H. McConnell ‘27
2:30 p.m. Davidson vs. VMI Track Meet
2:30 p.m. Drawing Historic Buildings at Davidson
5:30 p.m. Whittle
6:30 p.m. On Campus: Tours
6:30 p.m. On Campus: National Print and Drawing
6:30 p.m. Reception Honoring Coach of ‘47
6:30 p.m. Banquet
6:30 p.m. Kick-off Dinner
8:30 p.m. The Wind Ensemble

Saturday, April 29
9:30 a.m. Capsule Courses
10:15 a.m. Coffee with Senator Sam Ervin
10:15 a.m. Tours on Campus: The National Print and Drawing
10:15 a.m. Historic Buildings at Davidson
11 a.m. Open Forum
12 p.m. Class Reunion Pictures
12:30 p.m. Annual Alumni Luncheon
2:30 p.m. Second Annual Alumni-Varsity Football Game
2:30 p.m. Finals, Round-Robin Tennis
5 p.m. Post-Game Victory Under The Goal-Posts

DEALS RESTAURANT AND GRILL
663-4141
4 Miles North of Davidson
Steaks — Seafood — Plate Lunches
Sandwiches
6 a.m. ’til Midnight ~ Closed Monday
Salads
“After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat 12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room
Desserts

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS'S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.