CLOUT 'Te Gore} oe ee ee . SR 5 Tyg Br we we SEB SS ' Up n’ ? Coming
___ ua, aBed She Bavidsoniar TE CONE Ue Pg Ges Rae TNE ILE y+ 2

Friday, March 31:
10 a.m. Dr. Douglas Heath
Psychologist at Haverford College
Morrison Room
2 p.m. Open End: Dr. Douglas Heath
Morrison Room
4 p.m. Dr. Douglas Heath
Green Room
9 p.m. Hungry ‘d: Robin Williams
Morrison Room

Monday, April 3:
10 a.m. Samuel Adams: “Blacks and the New Politics for the Seventies”
Morrison Room
4 p.m. Samuel Adams: “Blacks and the New Politics for the Seventies”
Morrison Room

Tuesday, April 4:
4 p.m. Tea and presentation of Professor Emeritus Dr. Cunningham's Book
Union Lobby
8 p.m. Reynolds Lecturer Dr. Ali Mazrui: “Secular Leadership & Sacred Loyalties”
Hodson Hall

Wednesday, April 5:
8 p.m. Fine Film: “The Maltese Falcon”
Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Reynolds Lecturer Dr. Ali Mazrui: “Personal Intimacy & Political Power”
Hodson Hall

Thursday, April 6:
All day Black Arts Festival
8 p.m. Reynolds Lecturer Dr. Ali Mazrui: “Church & State in Black Africa”
Hodson Hall

Davidson Groups To Sponsor Voter Registration Drive Here
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Peace Coalition and the Administration's Office of Personnel and Administrative Services will jointly sponsor a program to encourage
the college’s employees to register to vote. Director of Personnel Robert Stephenson does not feel it is out of place
or unusual for the college to become involved in voter registration. “After all, the college is naturally interested in encouraging
its employees to vote,” he said. Peace Coalition member Steve Cross plans to meet with groups of college employees on
Monday and Thursday of next week. Both the college and ARA Slater will give their employees time off to attend.

Cards Contain Student Souls
By BRUCE MALOY
Staff Writer

Every student at Davidson College has his academic soul committed to an 8½ by 11 card in the Registrar's Office.
This card, the permanent record, identifies the college and the student on one side. On this same side is a
description of the courses taken, the term they were taken, the final grade, an explanation of the grading system, the
requirements for graduation, and a statement of the student's eligibility for a degree. It is this side of the permanent
record which is copied to make a transcript. The reverse side contains test data such as SAT scores and foreign
language placement test scores. The student's final grade-point average, his rank in class, college-related activities, and a listing of the
institutions to which transcripts have been sent are also on this side. No information from this side of the permanent
record is ever put on a transcript unless the student specifically requests it on the transcript request form.

The transcript which is pictured below is a realistic dummy prepared by Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. It is on
the same type of form as three-fourths of the records of students now at Davidson. Members of the Freshman class
have their records on a revised form. The form below has certain discrepancies due to academic changes. For example, grade
points are now used in place of quality points. The grades of A plus and D plus have been dropped.
The change from Area Exams to Extended Studies moved the number of courses needed for graduation from thirty-two to thirty-six.
(The 2.00’s which appear for Pass/Fail courses are not included in the grade point average.)

As pointed out by Burts, “There have been many transitions in the permanent record. The change from the semester to
the quarter system as well as the development of the Honors College have necessitated special arrangements.” When asked who has
access to the permanent record, Burts stated, “First of all, the student has access to his own record as well
as any member of the faculty or administration with a legitimate interest, the student's parents, and philanthropic organizations supporting the
student. The record is released to others,” Burts continued, “only with the student's written permission.”

NAME: LYPLTRELI MBo lA weed.
ADDRESS: siete, Street, Hometown, a.
DATE OF BIRTH: March 27, 1932
DATE OF ENTRY: Fall
PARENT OR GUARDIAN: Mr. & Mrs. Gib. Furen: CwlPid Presbyterian
DATE OF ENTRANCE: Freshman

TERM SESSION OF COURSE GRADE
Fall Chemistry
Spring Humanities
Fall Intensive French
Spring Intermediate French
Fall Western Civilization
Spring Topics in Biology
Fall Intermediate French
Spring Reading: Sciences & Math
Fall Present-Humanities
Spring Western Civilization
Fall Topics in Physics- i.e. Senior Studies - Art 125 - Theatre Arts - Physical Education Requirements Classified - University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 1973. Intro to Political Economy - 2.9. Frontiers of Philosophy - 2.3. Courses: 27.

GRADING SYSTEM REQUIRED FOR GRADUATION
A = 95-100
B = 85-94
C = 75-84
D = 65-74
F = 0-64

Grade Points Quality Points Per Course
A = 4.0
B = 3.0
C = 2.0
D = 1.0
F = 0.0

Incomplete grades are given at the student's request. By and large, we will do anything we can which will benefit
the student. Burts went on to state, “Specific information which is considered to be a matter of public record such
as degrees earned and dates of enrollment is released to government agencies or individuals without the student’s permission.”

When asked how much influence the permanent record carries, Burts replied, “The transcript is a critical item with graduate schools.”

At the meetings, Cross plans to outline the requirements which must be met for registration and to encourage those who
are not registered to do so before the April 7 deadlines. It is possible to register at the Davidson Town
Hall any weekday between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Most of the college employees meet the qualifications for registration, but
neither Stephenson nor Cross were sure how many are already registered. “It may be,” said Stephenson, “that nearly all of
them are.” If it becomes apparent that a sizable block of employees are not registered, the Election Board in Charlotte
will send someone out to register them on campus.

The voter registration drive is part of the Peace Coalition’s voter education program. The coalition will sponsor a full week
of speakers and discussion of the issues later in April.

Counseling Programs (Continued From Page 3)
“We may form teams of faculty and seniors who can help the sophomore measure his intellectual growth and find direction
for his college career. Many sophomores may need a major advisor,” added Terry. The college chaplain can provide another essential
counseling role. “What the new chaplain will be is up for grabs; many students feel he isn't necessary,” Terry said.
“But I think we need someone with whom students can discuss theological questions which are really a personal quest.”

Both Hall and Terry acknowledged the problems and potential benefits of an effective counseling program. “Our most serious problem may
be the unwillingness of students to take advantage of counseling. To the male ego, asking for help is often a
challenge to masculinity,” Terry said. The faculty member holds the key to helping students, according to Terry. “As long as
we preach interest in the individual, the most potent counseling force at Davidson is the faculty member's open door, and
many times it just isn’t open,” he added.

“If the college is committed to real attention to the student, counseling can be a valuable asset,” said Hall. “The
trouble is the many students who can't see me. The encounter group situation may be the way to get these
people to recognize and understand their feelings. A major problem at Davidson is the student's passive participation in the educational
process,” concluded Hall. “Effective counseling can help students find their own value system. It can help students to be creatively
involved in Davidson College and in touch with its people.”

SAMPLE PERMANENT RECORD
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036

My Own High School, PREPARATORY SCHOOL ENTRANCE UNITS:
English
History
Economics
Math
Science
Electives

NUMBER: 42 3456

Early Middle Ages to AD 1500 - 3.0
Europe during Renaissance and Reformation - 3.9
Introductory Sociology - 3.0
19.5th Century Europe - 4.0
American History since 1965 - 3.0
The Legislative Process - 3.5
History of England to 1688 - 3.0
Origins of the U.S. - 3.0
Extended Studies - Pass 2.0

Courses: 27.5
Foreign Policy Since WWII - 3.5
Religion and Art - 2.9
Concepts of Geography - 3.0
History of South Asia - 2.9
Course - Pass 2.0

Courses: 18.0

This is an academic record only and does not reflect any conduct status of the student.

Hypothetical Student

THE ABOVE IS A CORRECT RECORD UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED. THIS STUDENT IS ENTITLED TO AN HONORABLE DISMISSAL. HE RECEIVED THE
A.B. DEGREE ON June 3, 1975.

SIGNATURE OF REGISTRAR
