Page Ten

April 7, 1972

Cats Face Crucial Conference Games

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

With the baseball season almost over, the Davidson Wildcats face a crucial stretch of three games. The diamondmen are at
VMI for a single game tomorrow and face Richmond in a doubleheader on the Spiders' home field Monday. If they
could post a winning record in these games, they could play at home.

Coach Tom Stevens emphasized the importance of yesterday's contest against the Baptist of Philadelphia and tomorrow's game. "We simply must
win these three games to have a strong finish," he said.

Staff photo by Rodriguez
BRINGING HOME THE BATON
Anchorman Tom Richardson takes the tape in the 440-yd. relay.

Thinelads Seek More In Meet With Berry

By TOM SOOS
Staff Writer

The track team, led by Tom Richardson and Bob Swetenburg, is preparing for a meet with Berry College. Richardson and
Swetenburg represented Davidson at the Carolina State-Record Relays in Columbia, S.C. Richardson finished fifth in the 440-yd. run, while Swetenburg
competed in the high hurdles, describing it as "a poor race." Despite this, Swetenburg has been improving all season and
is expected to perform well in the upcoming meet.

In the 440-yd. run, Whitt finished fifth, and the team is looking forward to crucial conference games. Despite the losing
record, Coach Stevens has been encouraged by the improvement made by the relatively young pitchers. He pointed to freshman Ross
as a big asset to the staff, and Frank Manire has been pitching "reasonably well." The defense must be more
alert and anticipate certain situations to make routine plays. "If we can take these next three games, it will boost
our confidence and put us in the conference race," Stevens concluded.

Student Cutthroats Thrive In Duplicate Bridge

By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The next few weeks will see intense competition in the duplicate bridge tournament. "It is a strict double-elimination tournament," Allender
remarked. "Every team must be on their game to avoid being ousted."

Allender picked team members from among those he was familiar with and has been pleased with their performance. "Mike and
I had played together before, and we complement each other's styles." Jeff and Mike are both excellent bridge players and
have begun to play exceptionally well as a team.

Unlike contract bridge, duplicate bridge is played with a comparison of the scores on specific hands. Each hand is played
by each team, and the results are compared to determine the winner. The winners receive Master Points, which are points
awarded by the American Contract Bridge League (ACBL) for success in duplicate bridge tournaments.

"The only rule for tournament membership in Charlotte," Allender commented, "was that you must have more than six and a
half Master Points." Duplicate bridge has 114 teams in the tournament, making it a highly competitive and dramatic sport. Davidson
has "won some prestige," limited as it may be, in its debut.

Staff photo by Rodriguez
NINE HURT ANKLES?
Players perform calisthenics during the opening of Spring Practice. Spring exercises and drills are in preparation for the Spring Game
with the varsity team.
