Page Ten October 6, 1972 The Davidsonian

How To Gain Weight, Make Bargains

Traveling to Colorado to play the Air Force Academy was like Jack climbing the beanstalk. We went there for the
gold and got back with our lives. As the story goes, though, the next time we'll kill the giant. Not
all of us went to Colorado for gold, though. Eddie, “I'm a redneck and proud of it,” Williamson went looking
for lead. Eddie is from Pendleton, S.C., where the prettiest girls in the world reside (I'd believe it, too). They
have the tattoos to prove it. It seems that Eddie, nicknamed “Ah Do” because, like men (that is), was underweight
after the Lenoir Rhyne game. When the team weighed in, Ah Do figured that the coaches would be disappointed in
his loss of size. Ah Do figured he'd fool them. He filled his pockets with rocks and went to weigh
in.

Linebacker Becker’s World WITH Bruce Becker

Had he been caught in his deception? Not really. It was only the list of the overweight members of the
team. Ah Do now had to run extra sprints to work the weight off. Without some fast talking, Ah Do
would still be running. As foolish as Ah Do was last week, Tom Fletcher made him look like Solomon, yes,
Ben Franklin. Remember the old saying, “A fool and his money are soon parted”? Here we have a case in
point.

The team visited the Royal Gorge, which boasts of the world’s highest bridge. As soon as the team got off
the bus, someone tried to sell Tom the bridge, but he saw a bigger bargain. In the gift shop, there
was a set of love beads for over a dollar. Needless to say, they caught the eye of “Tom Make
a Deal” Fletcher. Well, Tom wasn’t about to spend that kind of money, so he haggled over the price for
a sale. Let’s just say he won. When the price got down to a cent, Tom bought his bargain. They
were the scrawniest beads I’ve seen since Vietnam, but Tom liked them.

Kittens Drop Season Opener To Appalachian State JVs

By BOB WETZEL Staff Writer

Davidson's junior varsity football squad dropped its season and home opener to Appalachian State's JVs, 8-0. However, the 0-0 halftime
score is more indicative of the relative strength of the two teams, according to Mike Kelly, the student assistant in
charge of the JV program. All the scoring came late in the game. Davidson handed the visitors a 2-0 lead
when the center’s snap went over the Kitten punter’s head and rolled out of the end zone for a safety.
Appalachian’s other six points came on a short-range touchdown pass in the closing moments of the contest. Kelly was still
pleased with his team’s performance in spite of the final tally. “We definitely out-hit them. Our defense was superb. We
probably could have put the game away early if not for a few offensive mistakes,” Kelly said. According to Kelly,
the squad is made up of 35 freshmen recruits and eight student volunteers who responded to the football office's recent
“call for bodies.”However, eight of the freshmen were held out of Monday's game until the fourth quarter because of their
importance to the varsity. "We played real good football when you consider that we really only had two days of
practice as a team," Kelly noted. He went on to point out that the freshmen gridders had served primarily as
a "scout team" for the varsity, running the next opponent's plays thus far this fall and had not had much
time to work on their own plays. The student volunteers did not practice previous to last weekend.

Kelly listed Gary Hutchison, Bill Winkenwerder, Mike Eubanks, and Steve Bell as offensive standouts. The Junior Apps defensive standouts named
were Jim Spears, Joe Trahan, and Marshall Kearns. Volunteers Mel Cunningham, Mike McFarland, Brad Sebastian, and Scott Hall were also
singled out for their contributions to the team effort. Davidson's next J.V. opponent will be Duke on Oct. 16. "They're
big, strong, quick, and fast," Kelly noted.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

It’s LONG time again
LONG sleeve shirts
LONG sleeve turtlenecks
LONG sleeve sweaters
LONG jeans & pants
LONG scarves

The Red Hanger & Uck’s Elephant Barn has all your long (& warm) needs. Come by the house and pick
up your long things.
115 N. Main St.
892-7561

It was a shame when the team found what he bought. Tom could not have given the junk away. The
bridge over Royal Gorge had eighty consecutive successful suicide attempts. Number nine blew it. When he jumped, he caught his
foot in the fence and ripped a gash in his leg. The police arrived in time to save him, but
he almost died on the way to the hospital from loss of blood. With the hard luck he had, he
could play for the Wildcats of Davidson.

Before lunch last Friday, we were able to visit the Colorado Springs Zoo. Rodriguez saw his first rhinoceros, Jose, and
elephant. One of the coach's wives pleaded to feed the bears; another wanted to feed the vultures. The team did
give an ovation to an angry orangutan who kept spitting at the zookeeper. We were fortunate enough to have shared
the holiday fun with most of 15,000 Shriner conventioners. With their fezzes, they looked like dozens of Morocco Moles scurrying
about trying to solve a crime. After the game, one Shriner asked me if the partying had helped him avoid
the night before. As big as their defensive line, I replied, it would have.

ARMY-NAVY STORE
170 N. Main
Whatever you want, we've got
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
Reputation for 3 generations
Jewelers of trusted
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N.C.

CAMPUS CLOTHES for Males and Females
Jeans
Jean Tops
Turtlenecks
Baggies
Painted Belts
Sweaters Too!
Hike Boots
DUNHAM “Waffle-Stampers”
Come browse and see our “Bad” Clothes.
OPEN FRIDAY NIGHTS
John Mack & Son
Mooresville - Only 6 miles north
