— | . ; o 2 Che Bauidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan.

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR APRIL 7, 1972

Coeducation

“Coeducation At Davidson College” is a document which will radically alter the future character of Davidson for the better. It
is indeed fitting that such a historical document was authored by Associate Professor of History W. Brown Patterson, the chairman
of the Subcommittee on Coeducation of the Educational Policy Committee. Patterson and the other members of the Coeducation Subcommittee (Assistant
Professor of English Charles L. Cornwell, Assistant Professor of Biology David C. Grant, Professor of Economics Charles E. Ratliff, and
Senior Jody Turner) deserve the praise and gratitude of the entire Davidson Community. The Coeducation Subcommittee acted with dispatch and
care. It has presented solid arguments on the need for immediate coeducation.

“Coeducation At Davidson College” still must be adopted by the faculty. It is hoped that the report will meet its
approval this Tuesday. We are glad to learn that there will be an open meeting for faculty and students to
discuss coeducation Monday afternoon. There are undoubtedly many questions on the part of students and faculty, and this open meeting
should serve as the proper means for the exchange of views and information.

There is no way to ascertain how the trustees will vote on coeducation if it is approved by the faculty.
Our optimism is tempered by the realization that the trustees could disapprove the plan. The more likely danger, however, appears
to be the possibility of the trustees radically altering the present coeducation plan. Coeducation is so close, yet so far.
All the constituents of the College Community have been consulted, and the majority of faculty, students, alumni, and staff favor
coeducation at Davidson. The next few weeks will demonstrate whether these constituents are willing to act on their beliefs.

A Call For Sanity

With this issue, we conclude our series on “Campus Governance: Crisis of Authority.” The purpose of the articles is to
introduce the problem of campus governance and sketch some of the main issues involved in this question. Governance is probably
the most complex issue Davidson faces at this time—even more complex than coeducation. The difficulty centers around the completely different
outlooks of the constituencies involved.

While students feel the administration is impersonal and sometimes incompetent, they look upon the faculty as the major obstacle to
progress. Students feel they might improve this situation if they are given an increased role in decision making. The faculty
at times are annoyed with student whining for more power, but their main concern is with a tyrannical administration. They
have not been consulted on many issues, and they have been ignored by the administration in many academic decisions. The
faculty have very strong feelings that they should have a dominant role in campus governance, and they resent new vice
presidents trying to come in and run things.

The administration stereotypes the faculty as a bunch of old senile men who want to maintain total control of the
institution. They hope to resolve the current difficulties in governance by striking a balance between faculty and students, and by
clarifying just what decisions the administration has a right to make. While this is an over-simplification of the positions of
the constituencies, it does indicate the degree of mistrust and factionalism that pervades the campus.

At present, the administration, students, and trustees seem interested in experimenting with a new governance system, but the faculty seems
unwilling to negotiate. We find this to be somewhat paradoxical. As long as the faculty continues to retain the faculty
constitution, they will continue to lose power to the administration. The faculty constitution does not provide for any check on
the administration. An appeal to the board of trustees is unlikely since faculty-trustee relations have been somewhat strained in recent
years. Thus the faculty has more to gain by switching to a new form of governance such as the College
Assembly. In such a situation, the faculty can very effectively check administrative power and halt its growth. It is clear
that the stalling tactics which the faculty indicate they plan to use will be of no benefit in the long
run, and could very well damage their position. We hope that all constituencies including the administration and the students will
enter the governance deliberations with a renewed sense of compromise and a willingness to negotiate.

ALAN BARAGONA

Moray The Eel Picks Nits As Bombast Withers Olive

Most wondrous of wondrous sights on the postnight campus Whilst out for my postnightly constitutional (4 a.m., of course), being
engrossed in J. Edgar Booger’s newest book, “Masters of Bombast,” I unknowingly wandered into the mysterious confines of Pattersonhenge, an
ancient cromlech of long-abandoned ruins. Immediately I was put on my guard, for the Fathers of the Old Days had
warned us of the evil that takes place after midnight among these barrow-like remnants of forgotten paganism. But the Dark
Powers of ancient times often still lurk in our very backyards, under our very noses, beneath our very beds.

At first, I noticed nothing. A mist seemed to surround all Pattersonhenge. Soon, however, eerie lights began to penetrate the
fog, and I knew that within the protective covering lay A POWER MIGHTIER THAN ALL DAVIDSON! Wary as the teachings
of Numb Elroy had made me, I approached the lights, drawn by their...Missile power, or the power that lay behind
them. As I entered the fog, all became at once clear and fantastical. Six great bonfires blazed in a magic
circle with a seventh, the largest, measuring two hundred hands, aflame in the middle. Looming out of this seventh bonfire
was a giant cross from which hung the withered heads of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, John Lindsay, Paul McCloskey, and the
now silent Senator Rowland. Not only this, but sights more wondrous to meet the eye: The whole of Davidson seemed
to have come to Hillel Filteot; oak trees, staunch, clean-shaven, and full of The Rot, danced wildly in a circle,
chanting “Yes, yes, yes.” Interweaving with the oak trees’ circle, some twenty thorn bushes led by a heavy-browed olive tree
danced gleefully, chanting “No, no, no.” “What could have brought those things to their thought in such confusion?” Then, my
answer: I saw him, standing Druid-like, arms raised to the gods of Things Public. Res Publicae emblazoned across his chest,
I saw him. Behold A POWER MIGHTIER THAN ALL DAVIDSON! Behold MORAY THE EEL! “Mark me, Olive Tree!” shouted Moray
the Eel, flourishing his sable robes, catching the satanic flames in the depths of his eyes. “Thou and thy henchbushes
cease thy pricking! Nought but twelve of thee can dance in the unholy circle! I am A POWER MIGHTIER THAN
ALL DAVIDSON!” “How so, thou squirming pollywog?” retorted the olive tree. Then Moray the Eel drew from his ample robes
the previously unseen scrolls, in which he held decrees: “Robert the Red, Terror of the Grange, has worked well the
hours of your judgment’s musical awakening, and only twelve have danced for the fifteen cycles of the moon which our
foredemons have set down. All others came five, three, and a half seconds earlier to qualify!” “Ah, picker of nits!
Yet I draw that this coven has done so. Until it is supernatural, our pact with Beelzebub was set here
in stone! I slither in the sand, and woe—know well I, in the secrecy of the day, began the Sacred
bonfires with the stones!” Moray the Eel paused a moment but maintained his followers in awe and fear. “My lord,”
interrupted a sturdily rotten elm, “I too am torn to move, to question the point of order stated in the
third chapter of part 9.” “Very well,” said Moray the Eel. “That of course means we must question the revision
of the ninth chapter of part 7.” And with this ancient incantation, Moray the Eel, A POWER MIGHTIER THAN ALL
DAVIDSON, cast a spell of confusion, cheap rhetoric, and blandness over his followers. As the bombast filled the air, he
reiterated their powers, and, with a sort of amused scorn, I could see the olive tree and his thorns going
about their own garden.

Davidson Lauds Rabil For Calendar Changes

To the Editor:
I wish to commend the Faculty Executive Committee and the erstwhile Senator Rabil for the change in starting date of
next year’s winter term. There is a surprising measure of sound reasoning behind it. I do wish to remind Dr.
Bevan that he had better start preparing his revised school calendar very shortly. By past reports on such matters, I
believe that should he submit it and have it approved by mid-term, say October, of this coming fall term, this
year's freshmen might see it enacted by their senior year. After all, there are all those football and basketball games
which must be worked around. The schedules for the next two years have already been fairly well worked out.

John Davidson ‘72
Davidson College

To the Editor:
On opening my Davidsonian of March 31 to the editorial page, I was pleased to find two humor columns instead
of one. Along with Alan Baragona’s delightful Mott the Woppie, I saw the funniest article yet to appear in the
Davidsonian. I refer to the satire of the “America: Love it or Leave it!” letter. What an excellent job. Without
doubt, this journalist has spent years of his life compiling the most absurd of the arguments for violence. I congratulate
him and only wish that his real name had been printed so I could personally salute him. To give an
example, not only does this genius recount arguments taken from myths in the Bible, he also has found a way
of using the Encyclopedia Britannica in a novel way. My favorite paragraph occurs near the end of the farce. He
uses the old, well-known adjective addition to prove his point. In the paragraph, he begins by stating the false proposition
that to be an atheist is to be a communist. Then by adjective addition, he equates communism and atheism. What
a cunning linguist! I hope this letter will bring a better understanding to those persons who, taking last week's letter
seriously, were disturbed by it. After all, everyone has the right to express himself and it's always good to have
a catalogue of the irrational arguments that might be advanced.

Alan F. Blakely ‘74
Davidson College

To the Editor:
To the Faculty and Staff of Davidson College, we graciously thank you for the kindness and thoughtfulness shown to us
in our bereavement.

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Deese
Davidson, N. C.
