The Davidsonian
October 20, 1972
Page Eleven

SIFs, KAs, PAX Fall In Flickerball

This week as the flickerball season neared its end, the three unbeaten teams all lost a game. The KAs were
the first to taste defeat as the Staten Island Fairies, led by Jim "Low-Low" Lowry, out-flickered the KAs 47-12 to
move the SIFs into first. However, it didn’t last long for the Fairies as they were forced to forfeit to
PDT No. 2 in a clear case of misdirected priorities. The KAs stayed close to the Fairies by squeaking by
WI 19-6 on Monday. In other League A action, F&M took over third by nipping the SPEs 20-13. Later in
the week, Randy Ely, et al, led F&M to a 73-0 manslaughter of overconfident SI. Obviously, SI's upset forfeit win
went to their heads last week. The SPEs rebounded later for a 25-0 whitewash of CSB. Earlier, CSB had gained
a moral victory in a forfeit win over the ATOs.

In League B, there is one hell of a scramble going on for first place. PAX lost Rob Benton and
John Scandling to wrestling and then promptly got crunched by PDT No. 2, 32-12. Earlier, they had nudged Em 38-20.
The SAEs moved into first with PDT No. 2 as they picked up two wins, tripping up PGD 31-25, and
then taking everything out on CII, beating them 34-6.

In other exciting action...

IMAC REPORT with BUCKY AND CAPTAIN AMERICA

Club Gridders Fall To CPCC
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Staff Writer

With only four or five practices under their belts and no hard-hitting experience, the Davidson College Club Football team challenged
Central Piedmont Community College last Saturday. When the final score registered a 14-0 loss for the Wildcats, there was no
excuse made. "We played a good game and had a lot of fun," said player-coach Carl Rizzo. "We did not
even have any jerseys. We borrowed some from them."

The Wildcats played their opponents to a scoreless first half. Rizzo attributed this to a good defensive effort. Davidson took
the second half kickoff and drove to the goal line. Playing quarterback, Rizzo called a quick pitch. A lineman grabbed
his arm as he released the ball. A CPCC player intercepted the pitch and rambled all the way for the
score. "After the ball exchanged hands a couple of times, they drove for their other score," explained Rizzo. "Other than
that one time, our defense was great." The game ended with Davidson in possession on the Central 10-yard line.

Offensively, the Wildcats made up their plays in the huddle prior to the snap. "It worked pretty good for a
while," said Rizzo. "Then they...

Kittens Drop Match With Imps 45-14
By BOB WETZEL
Staff Writer

In Durham last Monday afternoon, Davidson's junior varsity gridders took the field for their second game against their counterparts from
Duke. On the Kittens' first play from scrimmage, a Duke player came up with the ball, and several plays later
the Imps had the first touchdown and the lead. That sequence of plays set the mood for the contest. The
final score was 45-14 with Duke on top.

Davidson JV mentor Mike Kelly said, "We were outclassed, but not as badly as the score indicates. They scored on
three long passes where it was just a matter of their receiver outfighting our defender for the ball." He continued,
"As far as I'm concerned, our team did a whale of a job. Our defense was good and our offense
did move the ball well on occasion."

Kelly pointed out that mental errors on offense have been the big stumbling block for his squad thus far. "But
these mistakes are inevitable in light of our limited practice time," he added. Kelly was impressed with Duke's team. "They
had a big team and a...Good quarterback, he said. "They had good timing and sharpness, and we didn't." The young
coach singled out defenders Kearns, Kinsey, Trahan, West, and Spears as giving good performances. He also praised the play of
his offensive receivers. Kelly said that there is still a lot of good football in store for his squad. The
Kittens will take on Wake Forest's JVs at Winston-Salem this afternoon and will meet Furman on Oct. 27 here at
Davidson.

Caught on to the play and we had to make up another one. The next game for the club is
Saturday against N.C. State here on the freshman field. Rizzo thinks the Wildcats can win this one, as State "has
a good quarterback, but not much else." The Davidson club runs out of three basic sets: a key formation, a
slot with two split ends (for passes), and a pro-type power set for up-the-middle rushes. "We have some great backs
who can really run," praised Rizzo.

With no kickoff or punt formation, the Wildcats had to resort to sheer desire when they met Central. Rizzo promised
that it would be different this time. "I talked to Coach Dave Fagg about a doubleheader at homecoming," said Rizzo.
"He thought it was a good idea. I am going to see if it can be worked out this season."

The Football Club practices twice a week, once light and once in full equipment. They meet on Monday at 8:30
p.m. "Our big problem last week was organization," said Rizzo. "There just was not any. But we will be ready
for State." Rizzo also presented the idea that seeing the varsity win has "psyched them up. We think we can
win now." The biggest thing the club needs now, according to Rizzo, is some fans at home. The State game
is followed by a clash with North Carolina at Homecoming.

Won on a well-played forfeit over W II, and C II came from behind to win a forfeit victory over
favorite C I. In the recap of this week's standings, the SIFs lead in League A at 7-1. Following close
behind are the KAs at 6-1 and F&M at 6-2. The SPEs remain in the tourney picture at 5-2. In
League B, the Es and Delt No. 2 are both in front at 6-1. PAX is hanging tough at 5-1
while the Pikas are just in sight with a 5-2 slate.

The IMAC Golf Tourney was held last Wednesday at Westport Country Club. The individual results have not been figured as
of press time, but the team title went to the Delts, with F&M second, while W II pulled a good
showing with a third. The wrestling tourney is to be held Nov. 1-2 in Johnston Gym. Please get your teams
in as early as possible to Dave Griffiths at the IMAC office in the basement of the gym. The flickerball
tourney will be held next week sometime with the top four teams in each league participating.

In a surprise move, the SIFs, leaders in League A, have been forced to withdraw from the tourney, as a
foreign disease known only to be native to "Holland" has decimated the team. A tragedy in the world of sports.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7 — Wed. 9-12. — Sun. 9:30-10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N.C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

THE SNEAKY
The Red H. anger
LUCK’s Elephant Barn
115 N. Main
892-7561
