Union Board Recommends A Site
By RICH WILSON
Managing Editor

In a meeting with College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Wednesday night, the Union Board presented its formal recommendation that Union activities be temporarily relocated in the Guest House until a new Union is constructed.

Although the board considered the laundry, Jackson Court, and Chambers Banquet Hall as possible alternatives, they finally decided that the Guest House offers the most location advantages. A report which studied the four alternatives said the location of union functions in the Guest House would allow for coordinated programming with Cunningham Fine Arts Center and the Honors College. This location is also close to the dormitories, thereby providing students with accessibility to the Union. And it is far enough away from the classrooms so that loud programming would not disturb academic programming.

The major disadvantage of this site is that there would not be enough room for the offices of the Student Government Association, THE DAVIDSONIAN, Quips and Cranks, and WDAV. The report suggested that two houses on Jackson Court could house these organizations.

If this recommendation is adopted by the administration, the report suggested that Guest House patrons may be housed in Richardson Dormitory or under the stadium. Or if a girl's dorm is indeed built, Gray House could be converted into a guest house. Preliminary estimates of the cost of converting the Guest House into the Union were about $3500.

The Union Board considered the laundry building as a possible site for the temporary union since it was close to the dormitories and the eating clubs. One disadvantage of this location, however, was that it was too far away from large programming areas such as Love Auditorium, Hodson Hall, and Perkins Auditorium. This proposal was finally rejected on the basis that the cost of converting what is now a factory into a union structure would be exorbitant. Preliminary estimates surpassed $100,000.

Chambers Banquet Hall seemed to be a good central location in relation to most college facilities, but this site also possessed some disadvantages.

Vol. LXI No. Nine
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
JANUARY 7, 1972

Candidates Gear For Election
By BOB HOWELL
Staff Writer

The student body will elect its student officers for the coming year this Tuesday, Jan. 11. Candidates have registered and begun their campaigns this week. Several candidates registering had no opposition and are therefore elected by acclamation.

In the race for SGA President are Ralph Peeples and Bill Alexander. Supervisor of elections Bill Lear said that Peeples and Alexander will officially appear before the student body to present their positions in a combination speeches—Open End at 10 a.m. Monday, Jan. 10.

Running for Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN are Rich Wilson and Gray Wilson, and for Editor of Miscellany are Frank Erwin, Bob Bolick, and, as co-editors, Joe Earle and Jim Hanna. Jim Campbell and Miles Ward are opposing candidates for the presidency of the Social Council, and Paul Yarborough and Wilson Gurn are the contenders for Vice President of the YMCA.

Running for sophomore representative to the Hearing Committee are Rick Love, Steve Dodd, and Buck Farrow. Contestants for the two junior positions on the committee are David Bender, Jim Lehnberg, Steve Johnson, and David Duggins. The candidates for the three senior members are David Varner, Butch Barton, Joel Bradley, and Mike Stovall.

Competing to become manager of the radio station WDAV are Robert Corlew and, as co-managers, Jeff Allender and Bill Howland. The candidates for Freshman Adviser are Rob Krebs and Skip Holcombe.

The positions which have been won by acclamation are: SGA Vice-president, Bob Cunningham; Editor of Quips and Cranks, Ronald Conoley; President of the Union, Stan Hassinger; YMCA Secretary, Woody Connette; YMCA Treasurer, Tom Parks; Defense Adviser, Gerry Bello; and Student Solicitor, Randy Ely.

No candidates registered for either the Review Board or Off-campus Senator, so the registration deadline for those offices, and the election date, has been extended to coincide with those of class senator, the registration deadline being 5 p.m. Wednesday the 12th and election day being Tuesday the 18th.

Lear said that voting procedure would be as usual, with the polls in Chambers Lobby open from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. “The votes will be tabulated by the computer and the results should be in by 5 o’clock Tuesday afternoon. Any runoffs will be held the following day,” Lear said.

In addition to elections for campus offices, a referendum will also be held Tuesday in which...The student body will decide whether write-in votes should be accepted in elections. It would be too near the dirt and noise accompanying the library construction and would not be near enough to the fraternities. It also would provide little room for offices and storage. The report said that this alternative would cause students to feel “shut off into a corner.” Estimated costs for this alternative ranged from $5,000 - $16,000 depending upon the degree of renovation.

The final alternative was Jackson Court. The report suggested that Union activities be distributed over six of the houses. This proposal also called for a central multi-purpose facility to be located adjacent to Hobart Park and behind Jackson Court. The advantage of this site is that it is accessible both to the students and faculty as well as “outsiders,” but the disadvantage is that activities will be dispersed in too many directions, and that it is too far removed from the mainstream of activity. The final decision on the Union will be made by the president in consultation with his vice presidents. Spencer asked that students and faculty discuss the plans for the temporary union and submit any suggestions they might have. “We want inputs from all constituencies before we make the final decision,” Spencer said. Spencer also noted that once the administration had made its final decision, the matter would go to the Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee of the trustees for final approval.

Candidates Present Views On Major Campus Issues
By BOB HOWELL and MIKE TANNER
Staff Writers

The duet of candidates vying for SGA President, DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR, and Social Council President presented their platforms this week for Tuesday’s election. Bill Alexander and Ralph Peeples will compete for the office of SGA president.

Alexander has been a member of the senate since his freshman year. He was on the senate committee dealing with the recent governance revisions and is presently a member of the Senate’s Executive Council, RHA President, and SGA Vice-President. Regarding his platform, Alexander said, “The first thing I feel strongly about is the idea of board being included in the comprehensive fee.” He felt that this policy was a personal affront to every student by restricting his freedom. Alexander went on, “Secondly, and just as important, is coeducation. Davidson is in trouble now, and coeducation has to come soon.” He observed that the coeducation question implied other measures, such as low-cost housing for the greater number of married students which would result, and from there, a revision of the college’s off-campus living policies. Ultimately, Alexander sees a need for some form of cooperative governing board between the students, the faculty, and the Administration, which would help to bridge some of the gaps between the three. He added, “As far as the area of national politics is concerned I don't feel that the senate should get into it at all, but rather we should stick to campus issues.”

Ralph Peeples is currently Junior class senator and a hall counselor and earlier this year, was instrumental in the hall counselors’ coeducation petition and the subsequent talks with the administration. According to Peeples, a most distressing situation and one of his primary reasons for running is, as he called it, the “perverted set of priorities” upon which the college seems to operate. He felt that the policies of the college seem to be shaped by financial considerations rather than by reflection on the well-being of the student body, the single most important constituent of the Davidson community. “The quality of life here at Davidson is in need of some improvement and the senate is responsible to the student body, which elected it, for doing all that it can in this capacity. And if the proper channels for this do not exist, then I intend to do all that I can to create such channels,” he said. Peeples felt that coeducation, a share in the responsibility of governance, as well as financial and legal services typify the type of considerations that the SGA should push for in the future to make Davidson much more livable.

The candidates running for editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN are Gray Wilson and Rich Wilson. Gray Wilson has been Assistant Managing Editor and a Managing Editor. He has worked on two weekly newspapers as a photo-lab technician and was presented with the Thomas Nelson Page Literary Award by the Philanthropic Society. Concerning his plans for the paper, Gray said, “I’ve got two basic aims if elected — first to broaden the paper’s format to include types of writing once a part of, but recently dropped from, THE DAVIDSONIAN.” (See CANDIDATES, P. 2)