Page Ten September 29, 1972 The Davidsonian

PREPARING FOR PFEIFFER
A Davidson booter prepares to meet Pfeiffer tomorrow.

Tornee Sparks Soccer Victory
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Tom Tornee sparked the Davidson soccer team with two goals that gave them a 2-1 overtime win over Guilford in their season opener Tuesday.

Guilford led at the half after an early score, forcing the Davidson team to change their attack. “In the second half, we started using chip shots to get into a one-on-one position,” soccer coach Harry Fogleman said. “If you can get Tornee one-on-one with the goalie, he'll score.”

Tomorrow the kickers will play their first home game of the season, meeting Pfeiffer at 2 p.m. “Pfeiffer always has a good team, because soccer is their major fall sport,” Fogleman said. Pfeiffer's record presently stands at 1-2, after opening losses to N.C. State 10-0 and Belmont Abbey 2-0.

Fogleman complimented the play of the team during the Guilford game, saying they outplayed their opponents, and had a better understanding of basic soccer skills. “In the second half we did a much better job of controlling the ball,” he added. He also praised the individual play of lineman Johnny Robison and goalie Charlie Slagle. He said Robison booted some good corner kicks, and the team came close to scoring on several in the second half. “Charlie Slagle did an outstanding job as goalie,” he said. “He saved at least three attacks, and did a fine job in his first game.”

Fogleman said the team had problems with the playing conditions at Guilford. He said that the game did not start on time because there was neither a scorer's table nor a timekeeper present at game time. He also said the field was one of the worst the team has played on, and credited the poor playing surface with forcing Davidson to give up the Guilford goal. “The ball hit a bump in front of the goal and bounced right over Paul Caldwell’s head,” he said. “The field would have been smoother if it had just been plowed.”

The team’s major problem now is a lack of personnel and depth. There are only 25 men on the team this year, and three starting positions are filled by freshmen. Fogleman said that although these young players had good games against Guilford, he was left with very little depth on the bench. “One of the reasons we haven't got the kind of depth we had is because several players from last year are not playing this year,” he said. One of the other problems facing the Cats is a lack of experience in the defensive team. Only fullback Donnie Bain played last year, and the other fullback position is filled by a freshman.

To Meet Spiders
Thinclads Routed In Furman Opener
By MARK CONNERS
Staff Writer

Despite an initial loss to Furman, cross-country coach Sterling Martin is keying his young team towards Monday’s meet with Richmond. In Davidson's first challenge of the season, Furman downed the Wildcats last Monday, 45-15, on Furman’s course. “With the season as young as it is, I was pleased with the performances. The boys ran quite well,” Martin said. Although the practice time had been short and the heat and humidity bothered some of the thinclads, solid performances were turned in by sophomore Ricky Bell, finishing seventh.a freshman. Goal coverage is shared by newcomer Slagle and Caldwell, who saw little action last year overall, and freshman Steve Scroggs, crossing the line at eighth. Scroggs heads a long list of freshman runners including Chuck Sudetic, Bill Cole, Jesse Smith, Bob McDaniel, Bill Sith, Bill Davis, and Larry Hill, about whom Martin expressed optimism. Strong runs were also made by sophomores Paul Mitchell and Ricky Deal. The next challenge the Davidson harriers face will come Monday, Oct. 2, when they face another Southern Conference opponent, Richmond. Although Davidson has not run against Richmond in several years, Coach Martin is looking forward to renewing the series. "Richmond offers us the best chance for equal competition in the Southern Conference," he said. This year's cross-country season will be different in another way, also, for the Southern Conference has increased the length of the run from five to six miles. Martin feels that this increase should prove interesting and expressed that "going to six miles, it will be a true test for the distance."

Once again the cross-country team will be a young one, with a majority of the squad consisting of freshmen and sophomores. However, both Captain Ron Clark and Martin are pleased with the turnout and the eagerness of the squad.

JV SCHEDULE
Oct. 2 Appalachian
Oct. 16 at Duke
Oct. 23 at Wake Forest
Oct. 27 Furman
Nov. 3 at The Citadel

Hair Falls; Cagers Ready For Photos
By BOB WETZEL
Staff Writer

The hair fell in large quantities this past week as Davidson's varsity basketball squad readied itself for Wednesday's annual pre-season photograph session. Facial hair disappeared and varied hair and sideburn combinations were trimmed to a length that even Archie Bunker would approve as the cagers strived to meet the neatness standards of the basketball staff.

The key factor in the new emphasis on appearance seems to be neatness. Possibly this reflects adherence to the old theory that "if you look good, you feel good, and you play good." During the past few years hair length has been a subject of controversy in many families and other institutions. A notable example is the American Legion’s summer baseball program which has very definite standards as to hair and sideburn length. However, the "hair question" doesn't seem to be much of a topic for dispute as far as the Davidson basketball team is concerned.

Admittedly, most of the players interviewed weren't exactly thrilled by the new hair regulations. But most felt that being on the team was more important than keeping one's hair long. Several of the players even refused comment on the subject because they felt that it might cause some problem for them within the program. Others were more frank in discussing the topic. Sophomore Joe Duncan said, "I'd rather have it long, but I have no choice. I'd rather play basketball." Another sophomore, Craig Crosswhite, voiced a similar view: "I think the coaches have a right to ask us to cut our hair. But I'll miss my moustache." Still others made light of the situation. Greg Dunn laughed, "I'm glad all those hippie freaks finally got their hair cut." Larry Horowitz said, "They lied. They told me it would grow back and it hasn't yet." Junior guard Mike Sorrentino said, "I think my mother will like it."