Page Six January 14, 1972

The Davidsonian

Coaches Favor Freshman Eligibility

By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

Both the Davidson football and basketball programs should benefit greatly from a new NCAA rule allowing freshmen to play on those varsity teams. At least this is the reaction of the athletic department to the new ruling, especially athletic director Tom Scott.

The new rule does away with freshmen teams in football and basketball and introduces a program of junior varsity programs in their place. These teams would be made up of players in all classes and would compete in a special league, probably the equivalent of the varsity schedule.

“This system will give more freedom to the coaches to train the players,” Scott said, “by allowing upperclassmen that may not see much varsity action to work on the JV and by allowing exceptional freshmen to compete on the varsity level.”

Wildcat cage coach Terry Holland echoed Scott's sentiments on the JV league. “The new system would allow more flexibility for the players. They will be competing on ability rather than age,” he said. “There has been a mistaken idea in the NCAA that a player becomes capable of competing on the varsity level simply because he becomes a sophomore. The new system will allow a lot of sophomores to grow up.”

According to Scott, the junior varsity system would not save any money on basketball, because it would still entail the cost of supporting two teams and a steady amount of scholarships, but it might save the Wildcat Club some football scholarship costs. At present, the college supports 52 scholarship players, roughly 13 a class. With a JV team and four-year eligibility, the college might be able to save those scholarships that would go to members of a freshmen team.

Football has a unique problem under the new setup in Spring training. Freshmen competing on the varsity team might be able to...

(Staff photo by Rodriguez)
PECORAK PUMPS AGAINST PITT
John Pecorak paced the ‘Cats with 20 against Pittsburgh.

Cats Fall To Mounties, Pitt, Tackle Richmond Tomorrow

Cold streaks and colds took their tolls on the Davidson cagers and cost them their past two games against nonconference foes. Riding on the crest of their upset of national power St. Johns and a 7-3 season scorecard, the ‘Cats fell twice to West Virginia 98-75 and to Pittsburgh 91-78.

The Davidson scoring took a sharp turn for the worse from the previous ‘Cat victories. In both games leading scorer Joe Sutter shot below his average, hitting 13 at Morgantown and six against Pitt. John Falconi was hampered in the West Virginia game by a severe cold, later diagnosed as pneumonia, and did not even dress for the Pittsburgh match. He hit 14 at Morgantown.

In both games the ‘Cats held the lead at one point during the game. Against West Virginia, they led by five points with about five minutes left, but hit a cold streak that cost them the game. John Pecorak hit a jumper with 4:42 left in the game and the Wildcats did not return to the scoreboard until there were only 55 seconds remaining.

The cagers were not able to command the lead for as long against Pittsburgh. They jumped to an early edge, leading Pitt 12-5 after four minutes of play, but that lead was quickly cut down by the Panthers, and the ‘Cats played most of the game in a catch-up mode. From the middle of the first half until the end of the game, they could not sustain a lead and never got within five points of the Pitt team.

John Pecorak served to fill some of the gaps left by Falconi and Sutter, hitting 13 at Morgantown and 20 against Pitt. He took 11 rebounds in that game. Eric Minkin also surpassed his season point average in both games, hitting 14 in Charlotte and leading the ‘Cats against West Virginia with 15.

Tomorrow night the ‘Cats play...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Their first game in Johnston Gym since New Year's Day, meeting the Richmond Spiders. The Davidson team slaughtered the Spiders 100-66 in Richmond earlier in the season, but the Richmond team turned around to down the East Carolina Pirates, who beat Davidson in the “Cats” second game. The Spiders will likely be looking for revenge tomorrow night.

Next Tuesday, the cagers will travel to Virginia to meet conference foe VMI.

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair Davidson, N. C.

Jewelry coming into the college would be eligible to play on the varsity level but would be unable to work out with the team in the Spring. Spring training has been maintained because of the prohibitive costs of housing and feeding a team during the summer months prior to the season.

Although both Holland and Scott welcomed the new regulation, they seemed to have some disagreement as to the manner in which it should be regulated. Holland said that he felt that there should be some limits on the transfer of a player from one league to another. “I can envision a situation in which a borderline player would be playing in JV games and then suiting up for the varsity contests,” he said. “I don’t feel that this would be fair to the players.”

Holland said that he felt that this would also be an opportune time to do away with the “redshirt” rule in college athletics. Since a player would be allowed to play in either league, there should be no reason, notwithstanding an extremely long illness or induction into the army, that could prevent him from playing for any longer time than his normal four-year college career.

Both coaches doubted the probability of a freshman being able to compete regularly on the varsity level. The rule has not yet been adopted by the Southern Conference, but Scott said that the SC supported the change at the NCAA convention, and he felt it would be rapidly adopted.

Matters Host 49ers
By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

The Davidson wrestling team will go for its third straight win of the season today, while the Wildcat swimmers wait until Tuesday to try to improve on their 1-1 record. The matmen will host UNC at Charlotte tonight in Johnston Gym. The match, slated to begin at 7:00 p.m., is the first for the grapplers since the Christmas break.

Coach Charles Parker is relying on some of his more experienced wrestlers in tonight's competition. Parker praised senior Rusty Williams, junior Rob Benteu, and sophomore Chester as three of his most valuable men. Parker also praised freshman Robert Jacobs as having potential. “We'll have a pretty good season, since we have most everybody back from last year,” said Parker.

The Wildcat matmen have already beaten Catawba and St. Andrews by large margins. DeKalb College will visit Davidson's pool next Tuesday, as the Wildcat swimmers attempt to go above .500 in the won-lost column. The poolmen lost to Mount Harvey last Friday, but came back Wednesday to beat UNC Asheville.

Coach Tom Stevens explained that the Christmas vacation ban hurt the team’s training program, and that this factor weighed heavily in the opening loss. “We only had four days of practice before the first meet, and this hurt us. The times are better, though, and the boys are starting to get in shape,” said Stevens. Stevens said that sophomore Jack Hobbs and diver Eric Vernon had turned in the best performances for Davidson so far.

Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.—Wed 9 to 12
Phone 892-2111
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Cosmetics—Russell Stover Candies
Complete Prescription Service—Sundries—Toiletries
Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main St.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.
“After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat 12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken - Salads - Desserts - Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room
OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.