Novice Grid Club Opens With Duke

By FORD NEWMAN
Staff Writer

Club Football makes its debut at Davidson College this fall. This new brand of football is for those Davidson students
who cannot quite make the Davidson varsity team or those who have tasted major college football and don’t like it.
According to Carl Rizzo, founder of Club Football at Davidson, the Davidson Club Football team is one of the six
club teams which constitute the North Carolina Club Football Association (NCCFA). Other members include Duke, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, North Carolina State, Central Piedmont Community College, and East Carolina University.

Most of the problems in getting the program going have already been taken care of, Rizzo said. Equipment provided by
the NCCFA will cost from $15 to $18 to rent, and those who buy their own equipment may sell it
back to the club at the end of the year. Rizzo also noted that the Davidson team will get the
first crack at equipment purchased last summer by the now-defunct Evans Junior College. Rizzo also added that each player must
buy his own shoes and jersey, which will be black. The players will also wear numbers and have their picture
printed on the jersey.

The Davidsonian, September 29, 1972, Page Eleven

Rizzo commented that he has asked Business Manager Robert A. Currie to contact the North American Insurance Society about insurance
rates for club members. He also noted that medical people will be at every game and high school referees will
be hired. All home games will be played on the baseball field off to the right of the field house.

Rizzo also added that former Davidson players, including Mark Gardner, Steve Keck, and Dennis Look, will play. Gardner, a former
Davidson kicker who has kicked for NC teams in the past, will play. The ineligibility rule that no one who
has received money to play or who has ever dressed out for a college game is being bypassed by the
NCCFA in order to get Davidson into the association, Rizzo said.

FLYING FRESHMAN

Staff photo by Davis

A freshman receiver heads into the air in IMAC football.

Five Teams Stay Unbeaten, Share Lead In Flickerball

By DAVID MELTON
Asst. Sports Editor

The IMAC opened its flickerball season with 18 teams divided into two leagues. The Staten Island Ferries, the KAs, and
Watts I are presently tied for the lead in League A with 2-0 records. The Pikas and Watts II are
vying for the lead in League B, both undefeated after two games.

In a big game Monday, the Ferries, led by Joe Duncan, Larry Horowitz, and Greg Dunn, fought back from a
halftime deficit of 7-0 to maintain dominance of League A by defeating the SPEs 27-7. The SPEs are tied for
second in League A with the Delts. Both teams are one and one.

Second place in League B is held by Emanon. The SEAs are in third place.

Cats Take Seventh In Clemson Regatta

By BILL HAWK
Staff Writer

The sailing team fared poorly in their opening regatta held last week at Clemson. Of the eight colleges participating in
the regatta, Davidson placed seventh overall. Doug McElfresh, the only freshman among the four team members who sailed, blamed the
poor showing on insufficient practice. According to McElfresh, the team had not yet practiced either starts or sailing with crews.

Daryl Douglas, commodore of the team, expects better performances later in the year. This weekend the sailing team journeys to
Charleston, SC where The Citadel will host the second of a series of eight regattas.

The sailing team experienced its largest turnout in history at an organizational meeting last week. More than thirty hopeful sailors,
including half a dozen coeds, showed up for what was termed a very encouraging meeting.

SANT KIRPAL SINGH

The talk of Sant Kirpal Singh scheduled for Monday, October 2, 1972, at 2:00 p.m. in Hudson Hall entitled "Cosmic
Consciousness" has been cancelled. He will be speaking at the Great Hall of Myers Park Baptist Church (1600 Selwyn Ave.,
across from Queens College) at 8:00 p.m. on October 2.

Furniture

ERRORITE™ AT YOUR EASE

Extension Cords And Other Room Supplies

TOON Meir

Mon. - Fri. 9 - 5:30

CAMERAS PHOTO SUPPLIES DARK ROOM EQUIPMENT RECORDS TAPES SOUND EQUIPMENT

Hi-Fi Camera Center Charlottetown Mall
