She Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 28, 1972

Sharing Of Power

Protest after protest continues to mount against the comprehensive fee. In addition to the Student Life Committee’s memo to the
president last week, two more protests arrived on the president’s blotter this week, one in the form of a petition
and the other in the form of a resolution passed by the fraternities.

As the battle against the comprehensive fee proceeds, however, it becomes increasingly clear that the fee itself is a rather
insignificant issue. For the majority of the students, they will be paying exactly what they are paying now. With alterations
such as the exclusion of the board and social fees, the comprehensive fee would be satisfactory. The real issue at
the basis of all the controversy is that of governance: who makes the decision and how is it made.

Considered from the standpoint of college governance, the comprehensive fee has been a disaster. In short, the fee was imposed
by administrative fiat. Neither faculty nor students were consulted or even advised of this decision. The administrative triumvirate made the
decision, the letters were sent out, and that was the end of the matter as far as the president and
vice presidents were concerned.

Such actions cause both faculty and students to wonder how much trust they can really place in the administration. It
is no small wonder that the faculty and students are suspicious of the administration’s motives on the Governance Committee. They
ask themselves how it is that discussion of the issue of coeducation and the union should be open to inputs
from all constituencies, yet the comprehensive fee is closed to such suggestions? Even after initial protests were made, no attempt
was made to include students or faculty members in the final decision of the fee.

Although we have confidence that the vice presidents will not try to impose the comprehensive fee as it is proposed
upon students, we still believe that if the administration truly believes in sharing of power, they will share power on
all decisions, not just ones they choose.

Campus Security

The problem of campus security is one which must be met with all due speed, for the safety of all
students. If the college entertains any hopes at all of continued junior year coeds on the Eight College Exchange Program,
or if the college expects any coeds to become regular students in the near future, improved security is an absolute
necessity. If the quality of life at Davidson is to be maintained, students must feel safe in leaving their rooms
unlocked, and must feel secure in the fact that when they return from Christmas vacation all the furnishings of their
fraternity house will still be there. No more empty holes in the walls on Jackson Court. No more petty thievery
in the dorms.

The college must hire more security personnel, especially at night. But the problem cannot be met by the administration alone.
Students must become concerned about the security of their campus for two reasons. They must exercise their right to ask
strangers if they have a destination and an invitation—those “no trespassing” signs are for real. They must use more caution
in looking out for strangers and in helping, rather than laughing at, the security force. They must secondly become concerned
about campus security to ensure their own freedom. They must stay attuned to administration proposals, exploring all the implications of
those plans. Over breaks it is important that town police patrol the campus; during the term it is important that
they not enter the grounds and inhibit student activities by their presence as law enforcers on campus. The line between
a safe, free campus and a police state is pencil-lead thin. We hope that students will become actively involved in
the search for solutions to the security problem, for their own protection. The administration has no plans for instituting a
police state, but it is up to the students to protect themselves from a time when such a system is
necessary.

ALAN BARAGONA

Whortleberry-lover Wants Co-eds, Pre-dawn Classes

Well, as I sit before my fine-honed instrument of destruction, a tank of a Remington, courtesy of the Carolina Inn
Gang, I ponder what to do with my new-found position of power. I’ve never been in a position of power
before. Experience, vicarious though it may be, tells me that I should consider how or whether-or-not to offend whom, but
perhaps I should leave that to the veterans. (Should a journalist use a “persona” for safety's sake?)

I could begin a series of confessions. “Confessions of a Cat-Keeper: Stunning Exposes of Flagrant Disregard for the Foundations of
Order in the Continuing College Community!” “View from the Widow's Walk: An Inside Look at the Lives and Loves of
the Elite Corps of Honors College Subversives—Frank, Raw, Brutal!” “I Ran With the Pack: The No-Punches-Pulled Story of the Student
Who Trained a Marauding Band of Strays to Rend Campus Security Officers into Itsy Bitsy Little Pieces!”

Of all these indiscretions or variations thereof, I am guilty. But do these matters capture the public’s (that’s you) imagination?
More important, will they fill up an eighty-line (fifty-five space) column as per ordered?

I could stay within the bounds of my forte and keep Davidson abreast of all the most recent literary events.
Faulkner died. On the other hand, I could ferret out scoops about current events around the campus political circles. An
unnamed but completely reliable source has exposed a plot to overthrow the Peebles administration. The band of fierce guerrillas (guerrillae?)will
be led by a famed revolutionary and military leader known only as ‘The Eel.’ The purposes of the coup, the
source said, were to reinstate the old values of... well, to reinstate the old. Anyway, it will be back to
rhythm for the Davidson student. When asked to comment on the possible changes in sight, the popular off-campus senator, the
Honorable William Rowland, said ‘Prepare ye the way of the Lord!’ Perhaps wise suggestions for improving Davidson life would best
suit my unfamiliar position. Gee fellas, let’s go completely co-ed, huh, huh? And about that Union food: why can’t I
ever get any whortleberries out of the machines? Answer me that, Establishment Flunkies! I suggest we have a vending machine
with nothing but whortleberries. And free lunches, dinners. Furthermore, all of the college's financial troubles would be solved if we
channeled all funds previously used for scholarships into a ‘jai alai’ team. We haven't had a good ‘jai alai’ match
in years. Alas, all these things have been said before time and again and better. I should strive to give
you (if you're still reading) a fresh viewpoint on something I know as no other. There is only one such
subject: Post-night Davidson. Yes, Davidson as I really know it, in the hours beyond those of conventional nighttime, in the
hours of three a.m., four, five, yea even into six. I realize that the average Davidson student knows as much
about daytime Davidson as the next. You all know, for example, that the post office boxes at eight, eleven, and
four each day. You all know that L. Dinkins built the Helper Inn in 1837. And that it's thirty-eight paces
between Phi Hall and Eu Hall. These are all facts of the noonday life. But how many of you know
that the traffic light at Concord and Main changes every thirty seconds or that the Duchess bread truck drives by
at four each morning? Two lonely strangers, flashing and passing respectively through the oblivious night. All too well do I
know these outcasts of day, seen only by the hollow buildings of the campus, resplendent in dew and inadequate lighting.
E’en so. My calling, then, to right a wrong, to give the dark side of Davidson a chance to shine.
Nor will the campus itself be the sole beneficiary, for at last I can do my part to help each
Davidson student use his college to its fullest capacity, understanding his (or her for you few and far between) campus
at all hours. Perhaps the administration will wake up to the wasted potential and schedule some pre-dawn classes! Think about
it.

Lack Of Motivation Cuts Both Ways

To the Editor:

As one of the members of the class of 1975 who has already left the hallowed confines of Davidson College,
I feel compelled to reply to Dr. Spencer's “explanation” of the rather abrupt departure of four freshmen. The renowned President
of the illustrious ‘Princeton of the South’ has claimed that these students (myself included) left due to a “lack of
academic motivation.” Being able to speak only for myself, I am forced to agree with Dr. Spencer. Lack of academic
motivation did play an important part in my decision to transfer. However, Dr. Spencer should be extremely cautious when citing
‘lack of academic motivation’ as a reason for student transfers. Surely he must realize that such a statement casts at
least as much blame, if not more, on the school than on the individual student! ‘Lack of student motivation’ is
merely the effect of a much more serious problem which, if not corrected, must have disastrous effects on the entire
college community. This problem is the failure of the Administration and Faculty to stimulate and sustain academic motivation in the
students. A word of advice, Sam: Heed the cries of ‘frustration and disillusionment’ among the students. After all, they are
the ones who support you and yours, and who will continue to do so as alumni, if they don’t drop
out or transfer due to ‘lack of academic motivation’ before they graduate. Think about it, Sam. Remember, ‘lack of academic
motivation’ is a handy phrase, but it cuts deeply both ways.

Andrew R. Pearl, Jr.
Houston, Texas

To the Editor:

In the latest student government elections there were several offices filled by unopposed candidates. Election reforms are needed to assure
that in the future students are given the opportunity to approve or disapprove every candidate. Not every student who registers
as a candidate is qualified to carry out the duties of his selected position, nor is he always supported by
the majority of the students. To allow a candidate to assume an office without student approval is a great injustice
to the school. A means of correcting this situation is to allow students to check for or against every unopposed
candidate. A majority is needed before the candidate can assume his office. If he does not gain a majority of
the vote, then the position will be filled by the student government. The present system allows any student the opportunity
to gain an office by simply registering immediately before the final deadline. He is not required to present a platform;
his opinions are not challenged; and he may not represent the best interests of the majority of the Davidson students.
If Davidson is to have a productive student government, then it must be responsive to the wants and needs of
the students. It cannot be responsive under the present system, as unopposed candidates do not necessarily reflect the views of
the majority. Personal interests can easily mar the organization’s productivity. Election reforms are needed.

Thomas Redding ‘74
Davidson College
