Page Two April 14, 1972

By PHILIP BISHOP
Contributing Editor

A medley of songs and dances ranging from Frank Sinatra and the Jitterbug to the Beatles and the Twist will spice the opening scene of A. R. Gurney’s "Scenes From American Life—A Revue," the Drama Department's spring production.

“Actors do dance steps from the time span of the play, while George Draughon narrates as Jimmy Durante,” choreographer Nancy Smith stated. “The prologue prepares the audience for the play's disjointed time sequences and helps connect the scenes,” commented Miss Smith, who is the daughter of Union Director Z. Shaw Smith.

“Although the playwright intended a prologue of just piano music, we expanded the opening scene to do with music what the play does with attitudes,” said production director Rupert T. Barber Jr. The play itself is a mosaic of 36 scenes and 170 characters portraying the upper middle class from 1932 into the near future, according to Barber.

“It's both a satire and a gentle protest—a youthful look at the hypocrisy of adult American life,” Barber stated. “Gurney uses nostalgia and humor to amuse us, but the play always bites. There is something to which everyone can identify,” commented Barber.

The play's short scenes “challenge the actor to develop a full character without the playwright having given it to him,” Barber added. The cast includes five women and seven men, all Davidson students. The production will be presented April 20-22 in Hodson Hall at 8:15 each night. A special performance for Davidson students will be on Wednesday, April 19, at 7:30 p.m. for $.50.

(Staff photo by Rodriguez)
PUT YOUR RIGHT FOOT IN... Actors dance through “Scenes From American Life.”

Medley Of Songs And Dances Highlight Drama Production
A PREVIEW

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ALEC HOON

News Editor:
TOM AINSWORTH

Photography Editor:
BILL BARNES

Assistant Managing Editors:
BILL GIDUZ
BOB HOWELL
THOM NICOLL
MIKE TANNER

Assistant Business Managers:
RICHARD ROMEYN
RICH SMITH
PHIL STIKES

Assistant Sports Editors:
HOWARD BOYD
CHARLIE TERRELL

Copy Editors:
BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
ROBERT TOUCHTON
GRAY WILSON

Contributing Editors:
PHIL BISHOP
TOM BRUCE
TODD EADES
JIM HANNA

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKOM
KEVIN BRODE
PAUL MITCHELL

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
TODD EADES
JOE RODRIGUEZ
BOB STRAND

Circulation:
ROBERT GATES
GREG MITCHELL

Contributors this week:
Bruce Becker, Phil Bishop, Rick Hussian, David Melton, Richard Romeyn, and Charlie Slagle

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

The Davidsonian Bookstore Relocates In Basement Of Belk

By RICHARD ROMEYN
Staff Writer

Next year the college bookstore will be located in the basement of Belk Dormitory in space now occupied by the ROTC Department. Two classrooms and a storage room will be converted into the store at an approximate cost of $2,000.

Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell said that “This is certainly not a permanent solution. The location of the bookstore in Belk is only temporary and will remain there no more than two or three years.” Cornell sees no feasible alternative to locating the bookstore in temporary quarters for a few years when its present home in the union is demolished this summer. “Though I would like things settled,” he said, “this is not the time to build a new bookstore.” Locating it temporarily in Belk basement enables us to keep our options open and gives us time to plan for a permanent solution.”

The location in Belk was chosen because the cost of converting that site was less than any other. The basement of Richardson Dormitory was studied as a possible location, however, locating the bookstore there would involve knocking out rooms at a loss of housing and an increase in expense. Another possibility was to erect a temporary structure, but Cornell indicated that he sees this solution as impractical and uneconomical. He noted, “Temporary buildings have a way of sticking around. The wooden building across from the laundry was built as ‘temporary’ in 1916.”

Two possible permanent locations are now under study by committees appointed by the Finance and Development Office. The first proposal is that the bookstore be combined with a new union in an arrangement similar to the present one. The second proposal involves moving the bookstore off campus to a location in downtown Davidson. But in a move off campus, the bookstore would lose the present tax benefits which it draws from being classified as a student service.The store is presently owned by the college, however, and if it were to move off campus “there is a good possibility,” said Cornell, “that it would become a franchise operation,” though the college would own the building in which it would be housed. Reaction to the bookstore being located in Belk was generally not enthusiastic. Though Peter Nicholls, manager of the bookstore, said he was not “particularly fond of the location in Belk,” he also said he sees it as “the only logical choice at this time.” Nicholls indicated that he would have preferred the bookstore to be housed in a temporary structure somewhere on campus. Student Body President Ralph Peeples concurs with Nicholls’ sentiments. “It’s the best of the possible options,” he said. Student reaction to the Belk site is at best indifferent. Many felt that though it may be the best of the temporary alternatives, they would rather see the bookstore located at a permanent site. “What is temporary in the life of the college will be permanent for the three years I'll be here,” was the reaction of one freshman.

Senate Approves Security, Budget, Coeducation Plans
By THOM NICOLL
Asst. Managing Editor

With a barrage of legislative activity, the Senate met Tuesday and endorsed a new security plan, approved next year’s SGA budget, requested extended gym hours, passed a resolution supporting Head Basketball Coach Terry Holland, and discussed beer sales on campus, the new plan for course registration, and the status of the coeducation issue. The Campus Security Committee, chaired by Mitch Purvis, presented and recommended the “Meetze Masten Plan” for improved security, drawn up by Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze. The committee presented its own additions, which, along with Meetze’s plan, were endorsed by the Senate with only one dissenting vote.

The plan centers on the joint hiring by the college and town of Davidson of two professionally equipped and armed security men. The men would serve in shifts of 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. and 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., overlapping in the most difficult hours from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. According to the plan, the security men would be equipped by the town with uniforms and a patrol car. The car radio and walkie-talkies would provide better, more direct communication. From 6 a.m. to 10 a.m., a work-study student patrol with walkie-talkies would keep watch over the campus. The college would retain one watchman to patrol the remaining daytime hours. The plan provides that the two professional men be hired with the approval of the Dean of Students, the town police chief, and the director of the Physical Plant, who would have administrative control over such matters as schedules and patrol paths.

The committee’s additions to Meetze’s plan included a recommendation that the student work-study patrol period be extended to 6 p.m., and the security men be restrained from entering the dormitories except by specific student request or as directed by civil authorities in case of an emergency. The committee also asked that the “social patterns” of students not be interrupted by the new presence of these security men, and that misdemeanors prohibited by college rules be handled by college officials. Another recommendation asked that one of the security men be black and that there would always be at least one security man on campus from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. The plan now goes to the Vice President for Financial Affairs C. David Cornell. Purvis said that Meetze claimed that his present budget would cover the cost of the plan, but that the anticipated cutbacks would prohibit it.

Next year’s SGA budget requests were approved unanimously. Blain Butner presented the proposed budget of $6,300, up $300 from the present budget. The Senate is requesting $800 for general expenses (up $100), $345 for conventions (up $45), $100 for hospitality expenses (same), $1500 for speakers (down $300), $25 for the Grievance Committee (new), $300 for Patterson Court Council (new), $200 for the social system (new), $1500 for psychological counseling (down $500), $530 for the Chancellor’s fee, and $1,000 for legal services for students (new). The budget requests now go to the Campus Tax Committee for approval.

Blain Butner reported to the Senate that he had found that neither manpower nor financial considerations were obstacles to extending gym hours past 10 p.m. during the week. The Senate unanimously passed his resolution calling for longer gym hours using work-study students. After discussing the faculty vote on coeducation, Student Body President Ralph Peeples announced that he would appoint an ad hoc Committee on Coeducation to push for final approval and full implementation of the plan, and to work on recruitment for next year.