Infant Honors College Searches For Its Niche
By PHIL BISHOP
Staff Writer

“The Davidson Honors College is still feeling its way in providing a channel for pursuit of independent and individual study beyond the regular curriculum,” said Honors College Dean Frontis W. Johnston this week. “The program is still wide open and flexible. We want to give a place to the student with a special interest or talent,” remarked Johnston.

The main obstacle to expansion of the program, according to Johnston, is the limited faculty of the Honors College. “It's not that our five professors are terribly overworked, but that they don’t represent enough disciplines,” he said. “We have had to turn down many boys whose projects were satisfactory and whose abilities we didn’t question because our faculty couldn’t help them,” added Dean Johnston.

The Honors College faculty includes Economics Professor R. L. Avinger, Philosophy Professor Earl MacCormac, Physics Professor Locke White, Johnston, and visiting Dana Professor Bertrand Jessup.

Applicants to the program must present an educational project. They are interviewed by the Honors College faculty “who try to explore the nature of the project and the educational interests of the student,” said Johnston. Johnston said students may apply before any term, although applications before the spring term are discouraged. He added the Honors College would schedule interviews this spring in April before registration for next fall.

Johnston admitted that applicants are expected to tailor their projects to utilize professors in the program. “This isn’t a written requirement, but we assume it makes some sense to use the Honors College faculty, provided we can get some more professors,” he said.

No minimum grade point average is required for admission, according to Johnston. “We look at the applicant's transcript, but we've taken boys with F’s in courses at Davidson,” he remarked. Incoming freshmen are not usually admitted to the Honors College, Johnston said. “Most freshmen don't have any idea of what can and can’t be done within the regular curriculum. Several have been admitted in the winter term of their freshman year, however,” he added.

One goal of the Honors College set by the Blue Sky Committee was to “lift learning throughout the college.” Johnston admitted the need to “increase the program's concrete impact on the total academic community. We don’t want the Honors College to be an elite group separate from the college. I think we should do work to increase the tangible benefits for students in the regular program,” Johnston said.

Evaluation for members of the program remains a problem. Grades of fail, pass, and honors are given, but Johnston feels these need to be pinned down. “Personally I think we should put evaluation in more definable channels.”

Each member is assigned an advisor from the Honors College faculty, although this professor need not be in the student’s field of interest, Johnston said. Johnston disapproves of students using professors outside the Honors College faculty as advisors. “I am reluctant to ask professors who are carrying a full load to help a student with an independent project. Often this can take as much time as a class,” he remarked.

Johnston said the same problem discourages expansion of the departmental honors program. “No department has the staff to support a two-year independent study program,” he said. “Student performance and operation of the program have been 90 percent successful so far. Now we need to concentrate on expanding our faculty and...”

Students
By BILL GIDUZ
Asst. Managing Editor

Students in the Honors College all agree that it is an excellent program for them personally, but the agreement stops there. The flexibility of the Honors College in relation to the regular college is the main reason for this praise of the program. Senior Bill Beckman, who is working in math and topology, said, “One of the best things it can do is leave you alone, and it has done a lot of that.” Another senior, Jack Scott, echoed Beckman's sentiments. “It worked out perfectly for me. It gave me the flexibility I needed last year in Germany to study the theater by allowing me to travel.”

Discontent with the system starts with the question of flexibility and branches into admissions procedure, grading system, and an apparent diversity of opinion among the Honors College staff concerning the general philosophy of the program.

The “honors, pass, fail” grading system of the college was attacked by some students, but seems to be a minor complaint. Major discontent among Honors College members is aroused by discrepancies and a seeming lack of direction within the structure of the college. Admissions procedure was cited by Junior Bob Edmunds as an example of discrepancy in the system. “One guy will get in with a mediocre program and mediocre grades while another guy with a super program is turned down. There doesn’t seem to be any set procedure for admitting or rejecting students, and applications are going down because of this arbitrary nature of admissions procedure.”

Edmunds elaborated by saying, “The faculty are having difficulty in conceiving a philosophy of the Honors College. One minute they want to be a tight-knit group with interdisciplinary courses, and the next they are talking about more student freedom.” Senior Danny Clodfelter agrees.Disciplines, and on increasing our impact on the entire college community,” Johnston concluded.

By THOM NICOLL
Ass’t Managing Editor

Asked to analyze the function and performance of the Honors College, several of the Honors College faculty presented strikingly similar observations. One recurring comment was that the purpose of the Honors College and its relationship to the rest of the college have not been clearly defined. Dean of the Honors College Frontis Johnston admitted that a clear-cut definition of the purpose has not evolved, but stated that this was a natural result of the flexibility against the confines of a narrow program.

Robert Avinger, Honors College and economics professor, said, “The program is still young and its focus is somewhat uncertain. We are trying to provide a flexible program for students with specific interests who could profit from the Honors College, but we need to define our relationship with the rest of the college.”

John M. Bevan, vice president for academic affairs, and another teacher in the Honors College, said that the concept of allowing the student to plan most of his own program is good. He emphasized, however, that the Honors College should serve only those who cannot find what they want in regular departmental honors. Avinger emphasized that the Honors College is not intended to teach a program of study available in the regular curriculum, and is not meant to be used by students just to escape distribution requirements. Johnston expressed the same concern, saying, “We’re interested in the student who wants to get into, rather than out of something.”

Professor Earl MacCormac spoke to the problem of relating the Honors College to the entire community and said, “If the Honors College doesn’t provide a service, then it has no right to exist.” Johnston suggested that the Honors College benefits the entire college most directly through its symposia and lectures. “I hope we can develop a structure which will allow more exposure to the community. Of course, idealistically we hope that the enthusiasm of the Honors College students will rub off on others, which would be an indirect benefit,” Locke White, physics professor, said.

White emphasized another reiterated comment. “We need more unity and cooperation in the program, but I don’t know how to get it. By comparison to other such programs, we need to find a better way to get a community of experience.” Johnston agreed that community is lacking, and related the problems to the program’s emphasis on freedom and independent study. “We have to strike a balance between having no community consciousness and being an elitist group cut off from the college.”

In regard to future changes in the Honors College, opinion varied. Bevan suggested that the program be expanded to include five full-time faculty members and about 75 students. He also would prefer that students be admitted into the program earlier, particularly as freshmen. Avinger agreed that the program should be expanded to include between 50 and 100 students, but recommended that more part-time professors would broaden the number of fields offered and attract more students. He also advocated allowing students to spend just one or two terms in the Honors College, rather than three or four years.

Edmunds agreed with Avinger that the faculty needs to define their concepts and goals more clearly, but he, along with several others, tied most of the Honors College’s ills to understaffing. Clodfelter said, “You need full-time men. When a professor works half-time at the Honors College and half-time at the regular college, he is lost to both places.” Lanny Ackiss, who left the program due to a change in subject interest, carried Clodfelter’s statement further. “You have to study under an Honors College professor, and since there aren’t enough professors, the possible areas of study are severely restricted.”

Some students, like Steve Salyer, who is studying the effects of population growth, think that “Most of what’s done in the Honors College should be done in the regular curriculum so that the Honors College program can be offered to all students.” On the other hand, Junior Gray Wilson said, “It should be harder to get in, a lot of people in the Honors College are just sophisticated goldbricks and these few have given the whole setup a bad name.”

According to Salyer, the Honors College is not taking a dynamic part in general college life. He feels it should be a forerunner of a general college program, it should not be as isolated an institution as he thinks it is presently. Junior Alan Baragona sees a lack of leadership as a cause of the college’s non-dynamic nature. “Nobody has fired the Honors College, there has been a lack of imagination in its development. It's stagnant.”

Individually, everyone seems happy with what Davidson’s experimental education program has done for them. This seems to be because the program, after being selected into it, has left them to do whatever they want. But, even though they are not affected by the policy of the Honors College administration, as the preceding statements show, they are highly interested and concerned.

The Davidsonian
March 17, 1972
Page Three
(Staff photo by Strand)
A COMMUNITY OF SCHOLARS
Honors College student Rob Edmunds discusses his program. Honors College Faculty See Need Of Purpose Definition