Page Twelve - April 7, 1972 - The Davidsonian

Can You Imagine No More Football?
By BRUCE BECKER
Staff Writer

Last night I dreamed that the trustees abolished all subsidized athletics at Davidson College. Now, before you start cheering, consider
the implications involved in this move. Cut off from their financial support, the basketball and football players mobbed The Hub
and the Wildcat Den with job applications. Suddenly finding themselves with a hundred thousand dollars, the administration made plans to
erect a space needle in the middle of Patterson Court. Several professors passed out from stage fright as class attendance
levels reached an all-time high. With nothing left to think about except coeducation, there was a sudden rise in the
incidence of rape on campus.

Coaches Dave Fagg and Terry Holland sensed the crisis in the life of Davidson College. The college needed something to
protest and criticize. But most of all, it needed something it could refuse to support. In an unprecedented summit meeting,
the basketball and football coaching staffs rose to meet the challenge. They found a solution.

The football team found out about it in what was supposed to be our last meeting. “Now, men,” said Coach
Fagg. “I'm talking about being a man.” Huzzahs rose from the back of the room. “Coach Holland and I had
a talk. We think we've got a heck of a thing.” More huzzahs. “We've developed what we call the Wildcat
Stud Tournament. Now what I’m talking about is getting inside a 6-foot circle with another man and being a winner.
The rules are these: We'll use no athletic equipment because that costs money, you can use any blunt instrument as
a weapon, the last man alive inside the circle is the winner. You men will play some basketball players. It
is a single elimination tournament. The winner plays Bill Garrett.”

When the news

---

SPORTS THIS WEEK

Friday, April 7
2 p.m. Tennis with Harvard here
All day Golf with Ohio and UNC Chapel Hill

Saturday, April 8
1:00 p.m. Track with Berry College, Rome, Ga.
2 p.m. Baseball with VMI, Lexington, Va.
2 p.m. Tennis with The Citadel, Charleston, S.C.
2 p.m. Rugby with Hampden-Sydney here

Sunday, April 9
2 p.m. Rugby with Duke, Durham

Monday, April 10
1:30 p.m. Baseball with Richmond (2), Richmond, Va.

Tuesday, April 11
2:30 p.m. Tennis with N.C. State here

Wednesday, April 12
All day Golf with N.C. State and ECU, Raleigh

Thursday, April 13
All day Golf with Duke, Durham

---

tastee-freez of Cornelius
10-9 P.M.
BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET
“It’s Incomparable”
Sandwiches — Pizza — Sundaes — 50 FLAVOR SHAKES — Salads

“After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken - Desserts - Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room

---

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.
OPEN MONDAY - SATURDAY 9-8

---

The Hubreached the campus population, Davidson was once again itself, its good old self. Petitions were passed in protest. Classes
were once again cut. The rapings stopped. Anxious to know what kind of a stud I was, I made plans
to enter. I searched the campus for a suitable weapon. I finally found just what I had in mind. While
Mr. Linker was making out a parking ticket in the ROTC parking lot, I made off with his nightstick. The
glorious day finally arrived. The event was to take place on Richardson Field. I saw C. David Cornell selling popcorn,
trying to raise money for his space needle. President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. was smiling proudly as one of his
daughters was elected Stud Tournament Queen. The festivities passed from my mind as Coach Ernie Tall gave me a pep
talk before my first match. I was ready. I had my cowboy hat and my Linker stick. The adrenaline was
really flowing when I sprinted out of the locker room to the edge of the circle. When I saw my
opponent, I stopped dead in the mud. He was 6-9, carrying a baseball bat and had Vandy printed in big
letters across his chest. I fainted. They carried me off the field. I lost, but I lived. When I came
to, they were having the finals. John Pecorak was losing to Jimmy Hardison. Hardison kept poking Pecorak in the solar
plexus with the crossbar of the south goal posts. Big Pig was getting fed up. In a last-ditch effort, he
hit Hardison over the head with a tree. It was all over except for the shouting. In the last match,
it was the Pig vs. Big Bad Bill Garrett. Pig chose a telephone pole to beat off Garrett. He picked
it up and came after Bill. Bill wasn’t intimidated. He walked calmly over to the cornerstone of the gym. In
a Herculean effort, he hoisted Johnston Gym onto his shoulders and stumbled after Big Pig. Pecorak retreated in a hurry.
It looked like he was doomed. He was trapped. He could not escape Bill’s path. Then, thirty feet from victory,
Garrett collapsed and was crushed by the gymnasium. A great roar arose from the 60 spectators. John walked to the
circle to claim his laurels. The Tournament Queen presented him with a victory kiss, and Cornell gave him a free
ticket of admission to the space needle. The Pig wiped a small tear from the corner of his eye. After
receiving the congratulations of the crowd, he and a band of well-wishers retired to the Cornell Popcorn Emporium where everyone
lived happily ever after.

Brave anew world of fashion

There's a fashion revolution going on... a whole new way of dressing... and Bostonians are at the bottom of it
all. With the shoes that set off today's hot new looks. Unleash your own fashion freedom, feet first. Get into
Bostonians. They're dynamite.

Bostonians at the bottom of the fashion revolution

Bostonian and Dingho Boots 22.99 to 38.00

Open Friday Nites Closed Tuesday Afternoons

Mooresville

Charge it!, or use Mastercharge or Bankamericard

Our 60th Year
