Page Eight March 24, 1972 The Davidsonian

Dana: Brown Shoes At Formal Dance
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

Stan Smith, probably America's best tennis player, wears a mustache. Frank Dana, Davidson tennis player, also wears a mustache. The similarity between these men ends there. Smith stands six feet four inches tall, and his rangy body enables him to patrol the court with seemingly effortless power. Dana, on the other hand, is a mere 5’6” and 145 pounds, and because of his physical limitations, he has had to take an approach to the game which allows him to make the most of his abilities.

Compared to the free-wheeling, overpowering style of play which characterizes taller netters, Dana’s game resembles a pair of brown shoes at a formal dance. There is nothing flashy about his pesky defense and precise strokes, and his form is always measured and calculated.

Dana credits Coach Harry Fogleman with much of the development of his game, particularly from the standpoint of strategy. “Since I'm so short I can't play the strong serve-and-volley game effectively. I have to wait for a good opportunity to make an aggressive move. Coach Fogleman has helped me a lot on my overhead shot, and I can get it in consistently now.”

“I’ve been vulnerable to the lob, and I need a strong overhead to make up for that. My basic shots are stronger now, and I can also volley better than when I came here,” he explained.

Fogleman praises Dana’s patience as a key part of his game. “Frank is like a human backboard because he hits nearly everything back. He has become

(Staff photo by Strand)
PRECISE AND PESKY
Frank Dana exhibits his meticulous form.

Volleyball Powers Remain Unbeaten
By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

Kecter’s, Sentelle 3A and Our Boys Gang all won three matches last week to highlight IMAC Volleyball. Kecter’s, now 5-0, whipped White's, ATO, and Emanon 2 without losing a game and took undisputed possession of first place in League A. Emanon 2 dropped to second at 4-1, while Sentelle 3 knocked off F & M to tie them for third at 3-1.

OBG reeled off wins over Delt 2 (15-13, 15-18), Pax 2 (15-10, 15-7), and the KAs (16-14, 15-7) to raise their mark to 4-0, a half game in front of Pax 2 in League C. Pax 2 edged the Faculty 2-1 and won by forfeit over Emanon 1 and now stands 4-1. Watts 2 (3-1) is in third after edging the KAs 2-1 and gaining a forfeit over Delt 2.

Sentelle 3A edged the SPEs 2-1 to take over the lead in League B. They also blanked the Gammas and routed Little 2, 15-5, 15-2, to up their ledger to 5-0. The SPEs are 3-1 with a game not reported. Delt and PAX are tied at 2-2 for fourth.

Regular season play concludes Monday, and the tournament gets underway Tuesday.

The IMAC track meet is slated for the first of next week, with the preliminary events on Monday and the finals on Tuesday. IMAC track includes the long jump, high jump, shot put and discus in the field, and the 100-, 220- and 440-yard dashes, and the 120-yard low hurdles, the 660-yard and three-quarter mile runs, and the 880-yard relay.

There was never a good war or a bad peace.
Benjamin Franklin

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what “low net cost” really means.
Hal Mapes
Jim Roy
892-1467
892-1424
ROBERT T. STONE
District Agentmore aggressive at the net, and he runs so much and gives it everything he has on each shot. It's to his advantage to wait for his opponent to commit an error.” The diminutive Dana serves as co-captain of the tennis squad and is the only senior on the relatively inexperienced team. He has pointed to Dana's strong aspect of being on the squad since his freshman year but has been unable to crack the top six with any frequency. Fogleman noted that Dana “had to play behind a lot of outstanding talent the past two years, but I hope he can hold down the fifth or sixth position for us this season. I'm confident he can win there,” he added.

Dana occupied the number six slot in the netters’ 8-1 loss to Cincinnati last Saturday, and also against Dartmouth last Wednesday. The Cats were behind 4-2 when rain washed out that match. Despite losing to both his opponents, Dana was encouraged by his play. “Against Dartmouth, I felt more relaxed than before. My game is almost ready now, but I'm not quite there yet,” he explained.

Fogleman commented that Dana was nicknamed “Little General” as a sophomore, and the name has stayed with him. “The guys called him that because he could get everyone else dates,” Fogleman elaborated, “and it seems that every time we play on the road Frank knows a girl there.”

Perhaps the greatest Frank Dana quote occurred on an evening when some students were planning to go to the movie ‘A Clockwork Orange.” Dana unassumingly inquired, “Is that a new rock group?”

The netters carried an 0-3 mark into yesterday’s match with Miami (Ohio). Tomorrow they entertain a strong East Stroudsburg team from a school dominated by prospective physical education teachers in Pennsylvania. The always tough squad from MIT visits the netters next Tuesday. Fogleman will use these matches to experiment with different doubles combinations. “I’m not satisfied with our doubles play, and I want to get the teams set before our conference play begins,” he stated. “With the exception of our number one man David Weaver, the other guys are about equal in ability. I try to go with the players who are making the fewest errors,” he explained.

Fogleman mentioned sophomore Gary Bressler as possibly the netter showing the most improvement thus far. Bressler has seen action at the third, fourth, and fifth courts. “We are still making a lot of costly mistakes, but I think we'll come around soon. There are really no easy matches on our schedule,” Fogleman added.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN

GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
1318 W. Morehead
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

The National Agency Of Student Employment has recently completed a nationwide program of research available to college students and graduates during 1972.

50,000 JOBS
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES

Catalogs which fully describe these employment positions can be obtained as follows:

Catalog of Summer and Career Positions Available Throughout the United States in Resort Areas, National Corporations, and Regional Employment Centers. Price $3.00.

Foreign Job Information Listing Over 1,000 Employment Positions Available in Many Foreign Countries. Price $3.00.

SPECIAL: Both of the Above Combined Catalogs With A Recommended Job Assignment To Be Selected For You. Please State Your Interests. Price $6.00.

National Agency of Student Employment
Student Services Division
No. 35 Erkenbrecher
Cincinnati, Ohio 45220