Che Bauvidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR OCTOBER 27, 1972

SGA Snarls Parking

The problem of student parking is one which plagues almost every college campus in the country. Davidson, even with a
small student body, a rural rather than urban campus, and large land holdings, is no exception. Recent actions by the
Traffic Court threaten to bring chaos to our car-crowded campus. By refusing to sustain any parking violations at all, the
court is giving students license to break all parking regulations.

First of all, we don't understand why the student government feels it is victimized by the parking situation. After all,
it was the student government in the first place that decided last year to take over the parking problem from
the administration. Now the Senate, through its actions of lowering fines and fees, says it doesn't plan to honor its
agreement or its responsibilities. If the parking regulations and fines are unfair, they should be changed after careful study. But
the Traffic Court has taken the irresponsible route of disregarding all the regulations, and the Senate has tampered with the
fee structure without careful thought of the problem.

On top of this, students seem to exhibit a very cavalier attitude about when and where they will park. The
parking permit gives students the privilege of parking on campus, not the right to park wherever they please or wherever
it’s convenient. We were shocked beyond belief this week when we learned that one student literally spit in the face
of a student hired by the college to ticket improperly parked cars. The situation has gone far enough.

We recommend a joint investigation by faculty, students, and administration into current as well as future parking needs of the
college. Issues such as whether faculty members should be given free parking stickers and designated parking areas, what the fines
for improper and illegal parking should be, where the money collected for the fines should go, and whether or not
Patterson Court parking should be included in official counts of parking places need to be studied. Until this study is
complete, the SGA would be wise not to politically manipulate the Traffic Court, and the members of the court would
be wise to perform in a fair manner. Routine excusing of parking violations is not only weakening the college but
is also lowering respect for the student government.

Slater Proves Responsive

The recent change in the College Dining Service which provides a structured 20-meal plan similar to that offered by ARA
Slater in the past is a welcome response to student complaints about the meal service. Even if only nine percent
of those using the dining service opted for the change, the “new” plan should provide those 45 students with what
they no doubt felt they had paid for: enough food to satisfy themselves for the entire week.

Apparently, many students felt the disadvantages of the 20-meal plan outweigh the advantages of not having to count nickels and
dimes when patronizing the three Union facilities. Many students are apparently unwilling to accept the gamble of non-transferable tickets and
missed meals. That Ron Scott, manager of the ARA Slater food services on campus, reacted so fast to the objections
of students to the “New Kinda Money” should encourage students who do not find favor with either of the two
present plans to ask why the “moderate” or “middle of the road” plan mentioned by Scott cannot be put into
operation this year rather than next. Scott and Slater have shown themselves to be sensitive to student feelings and complaints
about their service, a fact certainly to their credit.

MILES WARD

Missing Link’s Campus Role, Words Of Truth Remembered

I can live each day at Davidson only with the faith that we will soon have words to guide us.
We have long needed some thought etched permanently into the buildings and souls of this school. Only one sentence I
know captures all that is Davidson. It should be carved onto the front of the E.H. Little Library before it
is opened. The generation of this thought is pure Chambers and its logic is magnificent. The legendary “Cop” Linker uttered
this powerful message to David Kittrell and myself one night last year: “I assume no responsibility that your door is
locked.”

Some may argue the words to be trivial and worthless. Yet the Cop has cleverly invoked two of the mythical
gods of Davidson—personal responsibility and the ceremonial opening of doors in the dormitories. Now these are living issues which will
remain after Linker and the rest of us are gone. To back up a bit though, Mr. Ed Linker is
one man forthe books. People around for the first time have missed the Cop. He prowled Davidson for over thirty
years, saw a hundred dance weekends. You can still see him at the Post Office or Barber Shop or the
Bank. Remember to look closely though; now in a plain black hat, he just blends in with the crowds and
the country. He is a part gone this year, a piece of last year and all the years before. Freshmen
will miss the peculiar Davidson experience of sitting around the Union after a Saturday football game. The Link, and Shaw
Smith would walk in, Shaw clinging to Ed’s arm and ear. On rare occasions, Cop would stop walking, prepare to
speak, and words would rumble out of his cave in a mumbled growl. To understand it, you had to turn
around, walk up, get close. The things gone this year---an old building, a janitor named Herman, an old Cop---all took
a walk up close and a little patience to understand. Everyone here remembers Linker stories. There was one afternoon last
spring. The offices were closed and about the most exciting thing was watching the dogs in front of the library.
A family came by to visit, and Linker was the only one to show them around. With a hundred keys
and even more stories, they had a pretty good tour. As the father shook Linker’s hand, he pressed a twenty
dollar bill into it. No amount of protest could convince him to take it back. The next morning, Linker brought
his money in and gave it to the school’s annual fund. And Linker’s last words to that man are pretty
good ones, too. They might be carved somewhere on first floor Chambers: “Mister, we don't do things that way at
Davidson.” And in his own day and his time long ago, he was correct, because they didn't do things that
way here.

More stories abound. Last year some students saw him stop and whiz behind Belk Dorm. Other times, during his night
duty rounds, Cannon and East would shout in one voice, “There's the Missing Link.” For the Link, it seemed, was
always missing when you needed him. Well, this weekend Davidson will stop to pat this part of itself on the
back. And it will likely be pretty interesting to see how they manage to let Cop Linker go. And most
of the legends, from Davidson's past and present, will be interesting and will be nice. As long as I can,
though, I'd like to tell you a few stories of my own. I know some pretty good ones.

To the Editor:
By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

“The Tempest” by William Shakespeare will be presented Nov. 3 at 8:15 p.m. The Everyman Players, a professional touring company,
will bring the magic of Prospero and the mysteries of Atlantis to Dana Auditorium at Queens College in a Queens
Artist series presentation. Electronic music by a Moog synthesizer will provide background.

“The Brown Pelican” by George Sklar will be presented by the Mint Drama Guild Oct. 28, 31, Nov. 1, 2,
3 and 4 at 8:15 p.m. and Oct. 29 and Nov. 5 at 2:30 p.m. Sklar says that the play,
about pollution, concerns “the very survival of this sphere.” Tickets to this pre-Broadway production are $3.

The Piedmont Chamber Orchestra will perform in Dana Auditorium at Queens College tomorrow night at 8:15 p.m. Two Davidson students
perform with the 26-member orchestra. The concert will include works by Bach, Mozart, Mendelssohn and Hunter Johnson, a North Carolina
composer. Student tickets are $1.

The Charlotte Symphony will present a concert Wednesday at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. They will play works of Sibelius,
Debussy and Mozart. Student tickets are $1.50.

The Piedmont Craftsman's Fair will be held Nov. 3 and 4 from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. in Memorial Coliseum
at Winston-Salem. Over 100 craftsmen in 90 booths will display, demonstrate and sell their crafts. Tickets are $1.50.

“Godspell,” a Broadway musical, will be presented in Ovens Auditorium tomorrow night at 8 p.m. The Auditorium reports that tickets
are sold out.

“Fiddler on the Roof” premieres at the Pineville Dinner Theatre Thursday night. The buffet opens at 7 p.m. with the
curtain rising at 8:45. Nov. 2 and 7 feature special opening night prices of $6.50. The play will continue through
Nov. 26 with regular prices in effect.

The Hollies and The Raspberries will feature in a rock concert at the Park Center tonight at 8 p.m. Tickets
are $5.50 at the door.

“Munch” will complete the “Pioneers of Modern Painting” film series with showings Sunday and Monday nights at 8:15 p.m. in
Dana Auditorium at Queens College. There is no admission charge.
