October 20, 1972

SLEIGHT OF FEET
Johnny Robison sneaks the ball past a High Point defender.

SC-Leading Cats
By DAVID MELTON
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson Soccer Team split two games this week, losing to Furman on Saturday 2-1, and later crushing High Point
9-2 on Tuesday. Sophomore front liner Jack Linard still doesn't believe the Cats have put it together yet. "We're still
just working out the kinks," Linard said.

In the High Point game, the booters unveiled a new 4-2-1-3 offense. Linard, who scored two goals in the game,
said, "The new offense gives us more offensive punch and maneuverability." Coach Harry Fogleman termed the Furman game as a
"rough contest" and said, "We just couldn't put an offense together."

Gridders Meet Young Wofford
By FORD NEWMAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson gridders take on a young and upcoming Wofford team at Wofford College Saturday afternoon in an attempt to
continue their success of the past two weeks. The Wildcats have been quite impressive, tying powerful Appalachian State 10-10 and
slaughtering conference rival Furman 51-35.

"The Furman victory was definitely the highpoint of my career," recalled Davidson head coach Dave Fagg, whose Wildcats must now
look to Wofford in order to continue their winning ways. Though Wofford sports only a 2-3 record, Fagg said that
Wofford is now "really coming on." Fagg's statement is backed up by Wofford's impressive 21-0 victory over Newbury last week.

Fagg said that the Cats will face probably the quickest man they've faced all year in tailback Ray Monroe of
Spartanburg, S.C. Monroe is backed up by Ricky Satterfield, who boasts a 7.8 yd. per carry average. Another offensive strong
point noted by Fagg was the...

Harriers Split Home Contest, Romp St. Andrews, Campbell
By MARK CONNORS
Staff Writer

In the past week, the Davidson cross-country team has begun to assert itself as a potential power and have made
a strong team effort to "get out of the cellar," according to coach Sterling Martin. Last Saturday, Davidson, running in
a three-way meet, romped over Campbell and St. Andrews on a fast St. Andrews course. Although the victories were expected,
Martin was especially pleased with the performance times and the grouping of the team.

Ricky Bell ran a particularly fine race, according to Martin. "Ricky ran an extremely fast race and it was probably
the best race he's ever run," said Martin. "Good runs were also made once again by the freshmen, particularly Steve
Scroggs and Chuck Sudetic." Campbell and St. Andrews proved stronger than the team expected, but because of the "fine team
effort and good conditions," Davidson came out on top with a low score of 23 points, followed by Campbell's 34
and St. Andrews' 81, according to Martin.

Returning to Davidson, the team split a three-way meet with VMI and Washington & Lee last Monday. The Generals were
victorious, with the Wildcats second, and the Keydets a "surprising" third. "The meet turned out just the opposite of what
I thought," commented Martin. "I didn't expect as good a team from W&L. Their front runner, Stu Nibley, ran an
incredible race. However, the win over VMI is a big win for us in the Southern Conference," he added. "It's
the first time we've ever beat VMI."

Once again, Davidson ran as a team and was grouped fairly close together. Although it was a good team effort,
it was the sophomores this time that ran well.“I was particularly pleased with Bob Lautensack and Ricky Deal. Paul Mitchell
also ran an outstanding race," Martin said. All three are sophomores. Once again, Ricky Bell was Davidson's front runner. Pushed
by Washington & Lee's Nibley, Bell ran 27:55 over the five-mile course, his best time ever. The harriers' next challenge
will come Monday at 4 p.m. when Davidson will host a five-way meet with Appalachian, Pembroke, High, and Wake Forest.

Bowling MOOR LANES Daytime Student Rates Billiard Tables Snack Bar Pinball Machines

Discover the World on Your SEMESTER AT SEA Sails each September & February Combine accredited study with educational stops in
Africa, Australasia, and the Orient. Over 5000 students from 450 campuses have already experienced this international program. A wide range
of financial aid is available. Write now for a free catalog: WCA, Chapman College, Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666

Passing combination of quarterback Carter Davis and receiver Skip Korn. Korn, who Fagg described as “really quick,” averages 14.2 yards
per reception. Fagg had great praise for kicking specialist Randy. “He has haunted me for four years,” said Fagg. Wofford
eked out a one-point victory. Fagg also noted that Wofford receives “fantastic punting” from Scooter White, who averages 40 yards
a kick. “The series has been awfully one-sided,” commented Fagg, speaking of the three losses to Wofford in as many
years. “We want to do something about this," said Fagg confidently. “We are going to do something about it."

Romp High Point Fogleman singled out goalie Charlie Slagle as a standout in the Furman game. Paul Caldwell, the other
Wildcat goalie, was injured in the game Saturday and will be out for two weeks. In the Furman game, Steve
Tatum scored the only Wildcat goal on a penalty kick near the end of the game. Fogleman praised the Cats'
showing in the High Point game by saying, “We scored five goals in about fifteen minutes, and High Point got
a bad start.” Steve Tatum, along with Linard, scored two goals, while Rhinehart Pfiel, Tom Tornee, Johnny Robison, and Bill
Hawk chipped in one apiece. He singled out freshmen Bill Hawk, Bruce West, and Phil Barringer as the booters who
were standouts in the game.

Fogleman also opened discussion on a new crisis in the conference. “The conference race now is a three-way tie,” Fogleman
explained. “We don't know what happens in a tie,” he said, speculating that a round-robin tournament could be the only
way to decide the title. “Dr. Scott is in communication with Commissioner Lloyd Jordan in Richmond, to find out what
to do in case of a tie,” Fogleman added.

Donnie Bain, a sophomore defender, likes playing defense. “To have a winning season, you have to have a strong offense
and defense,” Bain said. He also explained, “The average soccer fan recognizes a good defensive play as well as an
offensive play.” “With everybody spread out, you get to see everybody play,” Bain added. Bain characterized this year’s soccer team,
saying, “We've got a young team and we haven't played together that much.” The Cats’ next game is here, Friday,
against The Citadel.

GOING HOME FOR CHRISTMAS Book Your Airline Reservations WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25 in the Student Union 10:00 A.M. until 3:00 P.M.
Or any morning at the Village Store, 110 S. Main St. 9:00 A.M. until 12:00 Noon Monday through Friday Phone
892-1006

DEEMS TRAVEL CENTER Representative of All Airlines No Extra Charge
