Page Two April 28, 1972 The Davidsonian

Activities Fee Apportioned For Student Organizations

By BOB HOWELL
Asst. Managing Editor

The Campus Tax Council met this week and apportioned $41,200 among various student activities of the college. The campus tax
is obtained each year through the $40 Activities Fee every student pays annually.

Bill Meier, a member of the council which is a branch of the SGA Senate, said that a total of
$48,626 was requested by various organizations. “This is about $6,000 more than we had to spend, so every proposed budget
had to be cut,” observed Meier. “We looked at each item listed as expenses and tried to determine superfluous areas,
padded in anticipation of being cut.

“The Quips and Cranks requested $9,200 for next year, but was granted only $8,000, the same amount as its budget
for this year.

THE DAVIDSONIAN was granted $9,750 for operation next year, after requesting $10,795. The increase over this year’s budget of $6,760
will cover the initial cost of transition to an offset printing process.

The SGA was one organization whose budget for next year will be lower than for this year. The SGA requested
$6,390 and was granted $5,750, as opposed to $6,000 granted for this year.

The Miscellany, presently operating on a budget of $5,000, requested $6,100, and was appropriated $5,450.

The radio station will also have its next year’s budget lower than this year’s, receiving $3,790 after requesting $4,485. WDAV
had been granted $4,265 last year.

The Artist Series, which has been operating on a budget of $4,750 for each of the past two years, requested
an increase to $7,500 and was granted $6,000.

Davidsonian Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
BILL GIDUZ
ROB HOWELL
THOM NICOLL
MIKE TANNER

News Editor:
TOM AINSWORTH

Photography Editor:
BILL BARNES

Assistant Sports Editors:
HOWARD BOYD
CHARLIE TERRELL

Assistant Business Managers:
CLIFF KIRK
RICHARD ROMEYN
RICH SMITH
PHIL STIKES

The Residence Hall Association had a surplus of $223 going into this year and had been granted $1,050. For next
year, the RHA requested $2,525 and was granted $1,550.

The Black Student Coalition had $483 left over from last year, and their budget for this year was $300. They
received a substantial increase over this for next year, receiving $1,000 of a requested $1,375.

Meier stated that the Campus Tax Council would have some money left over after these appropriations. “We always try to
save some funds to account for inflation so that the Activities Fee won't have to be raised every year.

“This will also go towards covering any additional requests that may be made later on in the year,” he said.

“We worked under the assumption that everybody could use the money well," commented Meier, “but there's no preset system to
determine where and how much a proposed budget should be cut.

“It's got to be highly judgmental,” he explained. “If we gave anybody a bad deal, it's perfectly all right for
an organization to come to the council and specify reasons which would justify additional requests.”

The SGA Campus Tax Council is composed primarily of students, in addition to College Treasurer Robert Currie and Director of
the Union C. Shaw Smith. The student members besides Meier are Cecil Burney, Todd Eades, Ralph Peebles, Bo Phillips, and
Rob Strand.

FCGS Plans Discussion

By DOUG BROWN
Managing Editor

In an effort to improve the competitive position of Davidson students planning to attend graduate or professional schools, the Faculty
Committee on Graduate Scholarships (FCGS) has instituted some new programs. One of these is an informal discussion session for students
interested in applying for fellowships next year, or later, which will be held at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, May 2,
in the Carolina Inn.

Members of the FCGS will explain the eligibility requirements and application procedures for the Rhodes, Marshall, Danforth, Watson, Fulbright-Hays, Rotary,
National Science Foundation, and Fund for Theological Education Fellowships.

Members of this year’s senior class who competed for these fellowships this year will describe their experiences in preparing applications,
being interviewed, and so forth.

It is becoming increasingly difficult for Davidson graduates to gain admission to graduate and professional schools. When asked to explain
why this is the case, Professor of Political Science J. Harris Proctor, Acting chairman of

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
ROBERT TOUCHTON
GRAY WILSON

Copy Editors:
BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY

Contributing Editors:
PHIL BISHOP
TOM BRUCE
TODD EADES
JIM HANNA

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKOM
KEVIN BRODE
PAUL MITCHELL

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
TODD EADES
JOE RODRIGUEZ
BOB STRAND

Circulation:
ROBERT GATES
GREG MITCHELL

Contributors this week:
Bruce Becker, John Cassels, Alan Ford, David Melton, Richard Romeyn, and Bob Wright.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid
at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate:
$6.00.

It is becoming increasingly difficult for Davidson graduates to gain admission to graduate and professional schools. When asked to explain
why this is the case, Professor of Political Science J. Harris Proctor, Acting chairman ofthe FCGS said, “Competition has become
keener. There has been a discontinuation of some programs such as the Woodrow Wilson Fellowships. In some cases, the number
of fellowships has been reduced because of lack of funds.” Proctor pointed out that some students are unrealistic in their
goals concerning graduate schools. A student must be honest in facing his own potentialities and limitations. Improved faculty counseling would
also aid students applying to graduate schools. “In addition to your first choice, you should apply to schools which may
not be your first choice but that you would be willing to go to,” commented Proctor.

Proctor explained, “It is hard to say if the graduate school situation will get worse. It will probably stay about
the same for the foreseeable future. It will not improve drastically.” However, Proctor cautioned, “There is a danger in overreacting
to the present limited number of graduate school openings. I believe that students should be made aware of the situation,
and it would be irresponsible for students to be encouraged to enter graduate programs without being alerted to the depressed
state of the job market. Nevertheless, there is always some need for the products of graduate schools, and the opportunity
is there for outstanding students. Although the demand may be less, it is still there. Some people who would have
gone to graduate school five years ago should not go today.”

In past years, 70 percent of Davidson's graduates have gone on to graduate or professional schools. The FCGS is aware
of this, and according to Proctor, it is making every effort it can. “However, there are some elements which are
beyond control.” Proctor also felt that although 70 percent of Davidson’s graduates may not go to graduate schools in the
future, Davidson graduates would have a better chance than those of other colleges to attend. Proctor doubts if there has
been any drastic change in the methods by which students are accepted by graduate schools. Letters of recommendation by professors
still carry considerable weight. He does not believe that graduate schools have become as mechanized and standardized in their admissions
procedures as some would think. “Courses should be chosen with care,” according to Proctor. “There are some courses which are
more helpful than others, and a student's competitive position can be much affected by the courses he takes.”

CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Warner Hall will call the meeting of the Board of Trustees to order on May 6,
at which time the Board will consider the Educational Policy Committee's report recommending coeducation. They will also examine the possibility
of building new dormitories.

Plans Prepared For Coed Recruiting
In anticipation of receiving the go-ahead on coeducation from the Board of Trustees, the college is preparing a massive recruiting
program for prospective female students, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. Director of the News Bureau
Earl Lawrimore and Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White are working together to ready a variety of ways for advertising
and publicizing coeducation. In addition to newspaper and television releases, information will be immediately sent to 400 selected junior colleges.
The impact of the initial drive will be directed to possible transfer students, but materials will also be sent to
high school counselors for distribution next fall. There will be releases to be sent for publication in church bulletins and
journals, particularly “Presbyterian Survey” and “Presbyterian Life,” and in the alumni newspaper, “Update.”

Evaluation Flaw (Continued from page 1)
New professors’ unawareness of tenure requirements. Professors sign no formal contract containing those requirements. One young faculty member remarked, “Until
recently, untenured professors had little idea of how they were progressing.” One requirement made very clear is the trustee policy
that a professor must “be an active member of a Christian Church” before he can be considered for tenure. Besides
the problem of definition (as Epes asked, “What is ‘active’ and what is ‘Christian’?”), many professors feel this is an
unnecessary part of tenure evaluation. Perhaps the most glaring fault in the present evaluation system is the lack of formal
student input into the entire process. Although Bevan said he and department chairmen used student interviews to gauge a professor’s
classroom effectiveness, he conceded there was “no systematic use of students.” A professor’s own questionnaire may be the only voice
the student has in evaluation, and “only secure faculty members do this,” said South Asia Professor Frederick Gaige. Thus, Davidson's
evaluation problems can be traced largely to the administration's reluctance to define and strengthen evaluation requirements, the faculty's laxness in
initiating effective evaluation among themselves, and both groups’ unwillingness to include students in the process. Though Davidson’s problems are not
unique, it cannot allow them to continue. Administration, faculty, and students must create a broader, fairer base for faculty evaluation.
Next week we will examine possibilities for change at Davidson, and at other colleges and universities.
