Page Eight

Friday, March 17
3 p.m. baseball with Catawba
All day Collegiate Golf Tournament

Saturday, March 18
1 p.m. basketball with Syracuse
2 p.m. baseball with ECU
All day News-Piedmont Relays
All day Collegiate Golf Tournament Camp Lejeune

Monday, March 20
3 p.m. baseball with Central Michigan here

Tuesday, March 21
2 p.m. tennis with Dartmouth here

Wednesday, March 22
3 p.m. baseball with Pfeiffer Misenheimer

Thursday, March 23
2 p.m. tennis with Miami (Ohio) here
3 p.m. baseball with Guilford here

March 17, 1972

SPORTS THIS WEEK
2 p.m. tennis with Cincinnati here
Camp Lejeune
New York, N.Y.
Greenville, S.C.

Boyd Leads Green Golfers Into Collegiate Tournament
By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson golf team travels to Camp Lejeune this weekend to open its season with the Collegiate Golf Tournament. In an interview with team captain Rusty Boyd this week, he commented that “this will be a good tournament, which will give us a chance to see how well we can play.” Coach Tom Scott is in Morgantown, West Virginia this weekend.

F&M Jumps To Early Lead In IMAC Volleyball Action
By HOWARD BOYD
Assistant Sports Editor

IMAC-leading F&M has jumped off to a good start in IMAC volleyball, and looks to be a strong favorite to add to its already imposing lead in the overall standings. Paced by the return of Frank Clark (who jumped the team to play for Porter’s in basketball) plus the play of veterans Pete Jorgenson, Cooper Geraty, Randy Parker, and Bill Gusenant, F&M posted two straight wins in early action.

Through Wednesday's games, F&M was in a three-way deadlock for the lead in league A, after polishing off the Taus 15-8, 15-8 and drubbing the hapless Bigs. Also 2-0 in games thus far, and looming as F&M's sternest challenge in league A is Keefer’s, which thumped Bigs 15-11, 15-8 behind Gary Seibal’s spikes and edged the E’s Wednesday two games to one.

Emanon 2 is the other co-leader, and has looked surprisingly strong in knocking off Ernie's Boys, 15-8, 11-15, 15-12 and crushing Sentelle 3 15-3, 15-5.

In league B, the SPEs, playing without ace spiker Buzz Taner, have posted three straight wins and hold a slim half-game edge over Sentelle 3A (2-0). The SPEs belted Pax I 15-5, 15-7, rallied to down Delt I 7-15, 15-12, 15-10, and walloped Little II 15-2, 15-7 Wednesday.

Sentelle 3A, which was formed when Sentelle 4 was divided into two teams, is paced by Larry Horowitz, Chris Young, Greg Dunn, Sheldon Parker, and Reggie Harding. They edged the Pikas 2-1 and stopped Pax I 2-0 Wednesday.

Pax 2 tops league C, at 2-0, with Our Boys Gang in second at 1-0. In third place at 2-1 is the Faculty team.

1972 GOLF SCHEDULE
March 18-19 Collegiate Golf Tournament
28 William and Mary here
30-31 Furman Invitational Greenville, S.C.
April 3 N.C. State here
7 UNC and Ohio Chapel Hill
10 Duke here
12 N.C. State and ECU Raleigh
21-23 Chris Shenkel Tournament Statesboro, Ga.
May 2-3 Southern Conference Tournament Sanford

Pax 2 clipped past Watts I 2-1 opening night, and beat the KAs 2-1 Wednesday. Larry Duncan, Mike Creaseman, and Steve Sulfas have sparked the early victories.

Our Boys Gang (or OBG) is a team made up primarily of seniors from 3rd and 4th Little: Tom Ross, Will Ryan, Duff Bruce, Blain Abee to name a few. In their only action thus far, OBG nipped Watts II in a hard-fought match 15-13, 16-14.

The Faculty, under the direction of Sterling Martin, has had difficulty finding a set lineup, and after opening with wins over Delt II 2-0 and Emanon I 2-1, they were bumped from the unbeaten ranks by Watts II Wednesday in a close match. Watts II copped the decisive third game 15-11.

Besides OBG, SEA, and the Faculty, other new teams competing in volleyball are Ernie’s Boys, which is essentially Sentelle I and II, under the leadership of John White; Little II, a group of senior independents from that hall; and Bigs, another senior team, named for “Big” Alex Gordon, and organized by Adrian Long and John Davis.

Volleyball play will continue for about the next two weeks, until round-robin play in each league is completed.League is completed, after which the top four teams in each will compete in a single-elimination tournament. Overall won-lost record will determine the champion. Elsewhere in the IMAC, the track meeting this Monday will finalize details on that. Tennis and softball competition will open April 3. Softball will follow much the same format as flickerball and basketball, but tennis has a brand new look. This year tennis will be open to all teams of 2-4 men which desire to participate. A round-robin is scheduled among all entries with won-loss records determining the champion. This is a switch from the double-elimination tournament used in previous years. According to intramural director Sterling Martin, “This was done in order to spread it out over a longer period of time and allow more people to play." However, Martin cautioned that “there is a possibility that we will have to change back to league play" if too many teams enter.

Volleyball Standings (through games of March 15)

League A
F&M 2-0
Keeter's 2-0
Emanon 2 2-0
Sentelle 3 2-1
Ernie's Boys 0-1
ATO 0-2
Bigs 0-2
SAE 0-2

League B
SPE 5-0
Sentelle 3A 2-0
Delt I 1-1
Pika 1-1
Gamm 1-1
Beta 1-2
Little 2 0-2
Pax 1 0-2

League C
Pax 2 2-0
Our Boys Gang 1-0
Faculty 2-1
KA 1-1
W II 1-1
Delt 2 0-1*
Wit 0-1*
Emanon 0-2
*game pending

STEREO TAPE SALES
National distributor needs school coverage. Top 50 - 8-track tapes wholesale prices, large earnings. NO INVESTMENT. Contact: Mr. H. Harris, Lake Erie International, Inc., 4441 West Brainard Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44122.

Other teams scheduled to compete in the tournament include UNC, N.C. State, Duke, East Carolina, VPI, and William and Mary. Despite the loss of last year’s top player, Doug Clark, through graduation, and number five and six men Bill Guerrant and Scott Sheftall, Boyd feels that “if everything comes together, we could have a pretty good squad.” Boyd, a junior who played number two a year ago, has moved up to the top spot, but is being pressed by sophomores Jim Ray and Dick Spinner, who played at the third and fourth slots, respectively, in 1971. Boyd is the most experienced and steadiest player on the team, and his strengths are driving and putting. Ray, who finished sixth in the Southern Conference tournament last year, is an excellent iron player who has been hitting the ball well recently according to Boyd. Spinner, who excels on the Wildcat soccer team in addition to his fairway duties, is probably the team's longest hitter. Senior Dave Faison, in his first year as a linkster, needs only more consistency off the tee to score well and ranks in the fourth position. Junior Sam Mitchener, vastly improved over last year, and freshman Bob Reni, who has been plagued by inconsistency, round out the top six positions. Seven men will be used in matches, with senior Steve Battle the most likely candidate to gain the final spot. Others on the squad include sophomores Bill Higgins and Tony Martin, freshman Richard Anderson, and senior Hugh Gaither. Boyd speculated that “if the top four men can put their whole games together, we'll be okay. Right now we're probably not as good as last year.”

The schedule shows four tournaments, including the Southern Conference, plus matches with William and Mary, N.C. State, North Carolina, Ohio University, Duke, and ECU. Besides this weekend, the other tournaments will be the Furman Invitational and the Chris Schenkel Invitational, which Boyd termed “a really big tournament," with the likes of Florida, Florida State, Wake Forest, and possibly Houston competing. Looking at the Southern Conference, Boyd tabbed Furman and ECU as the favorites, but added, “if we come around, we have a pretty good chance.” It’s a young, inexperienced team, but the season is long, and by the time the conference tourney rolls around on May 2-3 at Sanford, it should be ready.

RAY ... sixth in the SC.

“After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
Salads
Desserts
Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

SUMMER STUDIES IN ATHENS, GREECE
JUNE 28 - AUGUST 10
Economics, Sociology, History, Philosophy, and History of Art
Distinguished American and European Faculty
Classes and lodging in suburban Athens.
Extensive Trips and Cruises
For Brochure Write Box 8932, JFK Station, Boston, Mass. 02114