Page Ten December 1, 1972

RIDING HIGH (Staff photo by Goodman)

Davidson grapplers prepare for N.C. Intercollegiate Tournament

Grapplers Meet 16 State Teams

By JACK LINARD
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestling team will meet 16 other North Carolina teams today and tomorrow in the N.C. Intercollegiate Tournament in Chapel Hill. Mat coach Charles Parker said that due to the subsidization of the other state schools, the Cats’ chances are not very bright, and that the Davidson grapplers would be attending "for the experience."

"East Carolina should win about half the weight classes, with Appalachian and Duke splitting the rest," Parker said. Although each team is allowed two wrestlers in every weight class, Davidson will be taking only 9 matmen for 8 classes. Parker thinks that four wrestlers have a good chance of placing this year, a feat which no one on the Davidson team accomplished last year.

Robert Jacobs, a sophomore, will wrestle at 127 pounds. Parker says that Jacobs must use his strength to overcome his opponent. Because of his compact size, Jacobs’ moves must be quick.

Hard Hitting’ Club Gridders Have Fun Despite 1-3 Season

By FORD NEWMAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Club Football team finished the year with only a 1-3 record, but they did accomplish their main objective. They had fun.

"It was a great experience," said head coordinator Carl Rizzo. "I got to really know the people I played with; people I would never have come into contact with otherwise." Rizzo also said that observing his teammates’ reactions not only on the field but when they were roused from bed to play a game on a wet Saturday morning made this a social experience as well as a team experience. The feeling of independence and autonomy in putting 30 people on the field was also a plus according to Rizzo. "We are proud of the fact that we are financially independent and that as a team we pulled the whole thing off," Rizzo stated.

The cost to play Club Football was finally totaled at $22: $15 to rent equipment and $7 to buy a jersey which the player gets to keep. Rizzo felt this to be a moderate cost to play football. Another advantage of Club Football cited by Rizzo was that you get to know your opponents which rarely happens in varsity play. "But the main thing the whole year was fun," said Rizzo. "It was not a pressing matter because you could forget it during the week."

As for next year, Rizzo said that the labor needed to be divided and that a committee would be formed to take care of scheduling, laundry, transportation, and all other business that might arise. Rizzo added that next year's team will depend greatly on the participation from the rising Sophomore Class because there was only one freshman on this year's team. Rizzo said that he was happy with the cooperation from the school administration, notably Dean of Students Will Terry who was very helpful in securing a field for the club team. Rizzo also noted C. Shaw Smith, Peter Sterling, and SGA President Ralph Peeples as being very helpful.

One of the many memorable experiences recollected by Rizzo was the kick-off of the first game of the season with Central Piedmont. "We had never hit even in practice so I was going to ask the referees and the captains of the other team to just have an exchange of the ball at the 35 yard-line instead of a kick-off," Rizzo said. "But the CPCC captain, who was a big, fat SOB, said ‘We came here to play a football game,’" he said. So Rizzo said he went back to the bench and gave a pep talk on Davidson guts and tradition and according to Rizzo, the Club gridders proceeded to knock out three CPCC players on the kick-off. "We acquired the reputation of a wild, hard-hitting team after that," declared Rizzo.Rizzo Community College (CPCC), proudly.

Bowling MOOR LANES
Daytime Student Rates
Billiard Tables
Ball Machines
Snack Bar
Cornelius, N.C.

NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING
“We Rent Tux”
Phone 892-8064

Reid, Melody Recording
“We are looking for a student to sell our 8 track tapes. We are respected throughout the country as producing a premium product. Have your own thriving business. We carry over 700 selections of all types of music: Soul, Pop, Oldies, Country & Western, Popular, etc. If you are interested, call Melody Recordings Inc. (201) 575-9430. Ask for either Mr. Jonas or Mr. Cats.”

End Season With Loss To Dogs, Look To Next Year
By DAVID MELTON
Asst. Sports Editor

“We're already anticipating ‘73...” That is the outlook of Wildcat football coach, Dave Fagg, on the upcoming season. Fagg also said that “1973 could be a very interesting year for us.” He pointed out that the Cats’ inconsistency this year hurt the team, and he hopes to be able to change all this next year. Talking about the players, Fagg said “They're disappointed,” but he was quick to point out that overall, the Cats “played real fine football.”

Rob Benton and John Scandling, in the 134 and 150 pound weight classes, both rely on their legs to win. Parker calls Scandling “an aggressive, hard worker, both in wrestling and in school.” Scandling took a fourth place in the Southern Conference last year. Rusty Winchester, the other co-captain, will wrestle in the 142 pound weight class. Parker thinks that Winchester will have to use his upper body holds to defeat his opponents, and that his long reach will help him achieve the necessary leverage for these moves. Jim Purcell will be lost to the team until January because of an injured knee, and Frank Shinn is out with an injured elbow. Other members of the team going to the meet today are Peter Hotchkiss at 118 pounds, Randy Webster and John Kennelly at 167 pounds, Charles Dorsey at 190 pounds, and Bill Garrett at heavyweight.

He then added that quarterback Scotty Shipp led the Southern Conference in passing and total offense, receiver Walt Walker led the conference in pass catching and was fourth in the nation, end Andy Davis was second in receiving in the conference, and Gary Pomeroy was fourth in the nation in punting. Despite these stand-out performances, the Cats ended the year with a 3-6-1 record. The Citadel game typified the whole season for the Cats. They ground out 24 first downs to the Bulldogs’ 16, but lost the game. Fagg characterized the game by saying “The defense played exceptional at times,” but that “We just didn't cash in on our opportunities.” The Citadel game was the last performance for the nine seniors on the team. They are: Bruce Becker, Mike Creasman, Andy Davis, Jimmy Hardison, Bill Garrett, Woody Montgomery, Bill Nicklaus, Scotty Shipp, and Larry Spears. Of their graduation, Fagg said “We're losing nine exceptional young men.” He added, “We will really miss their spirit.”

Now that the season is over, Fagg's job is not. He stated that, “Recruiting started the nineteenth of November.” Fagg also said, “We're making real efforts.” He also pointed out that defensive coach, Bob Mosketti, had major surgery on both knees Wednesday. Getting back to the outlook for next season, Coach Fagg stated that the Wildcats will have 29 lettermen back, an experienced quarterback in Dave Harper, and eight running backs. He then quickly pointed out that, “The Cats are for real.”

Rent — Furniture From Tt oLease

Hattie’s Grill
HAPPY HOUR
Mon. - Fri.
Pitchers of 54 oz. — 85¢
Mugs — 20¢
7-8 Football Tournament every Wed. at 9
Prize for a two-man team is a half case of beer