The Davidsonian October 13, 1972 Page Nine

Tornee Leads Kickers Over Mounties
By JIM SITTERSON
Staff Writer

Tom Tornee scored with one second remaining to give the soccer team a 2-1 victory over Appalachian last Saturday. It
was an extremely close game with both teams evenly matched throughout the first three quarters. Davidson's domination in the fourth
quarter provided the difference, according to soccer coach Harry Fogleman.

The win in Davidson's first conference game leaves the team with a 1-0 conference record and a 3-1 overall tally.
Fogleman was pleased with the way “we controlled the ball in the middle of the field.” Fogleman noted that Johnny
Robinson, Tornee, and goalies Charlie Slagle and Paul Caldwell all played good games.

“We had to make some adjustments because this was the first time we ever played on Polyturf." Fogleman thought that
the team preferred the new surface to natural grass after they adjusted to it.

The first half, though well played, ended 0-0. Appalachian came back to score early in the third quarter to take
a 1-0 lead. Tornee scored on a direct kick in the fourth quarter to tie it up. Fogleman praised the
teamwork on the winning goal: “There were eight seconds left when we had a free throw-in. Tatum threw the ball
in to Blackwood who chipped it right in front to Tornee who scored. There was one second left on the
clock when Roger scored.”

The team did not fare so well against a strong, undefeated Duke team Tuesday. With fifteen returning lettermen, the Duke
team “simply out-styled and out-controlled us" to win 6-0. Prior to the game, the Duke coach said, “This team has
the...

Booters Have Two Goalies
By JIM SITTERSON
Staff Writer

Davidson is the only small college in the nation which is still playing major college football. Not to be outdone,
the soccer team has devised an equally eccentric policy. Davidson is one of the few, if any, teams to play
two goalies in each game. Junior Charlie Slagle and senior Paul Caldwell have shared the goalie duties in each game
this season, alternating halves.

This system is somewhat “unorthodox” as the Duke soccer coach politely put it. The other reactions from the Duke team
varied between “what?” and “that's weird.”

“I'm not sure why we're doing it this way, but I guess it works. Paul has always played this way
before and likes it better. So do I," said Slagle. Caldwell stated that he thought using two goalies was a
good idea. “It takes the pressure off you if you can sit back and watch part of the game. You
get time to watch the other team and prepare yourself for what they might try,” he said.

In using two goalies, Coach Harry Fogleman gives Slagle the experience he needs without putting too much pressure on him.
At the same time, Caldwell is able to play more comfortably in the style he is accustomed to.

Slagle and Caldwell have different styles of playing. According to Slagle, “Paul plays a lot closer to the line than
I do. I like to come out and cut down the angle. This makes me more vulnerable to the chip
shot. Paul is more of a team leader in the goal, he yells a lot. I guess I'm just a
crowd pleaser.”

Caldwell supported Slagle’s statements saying, “I play in a lot closer and rely on my reflexes. Charlie is a former
football player, he likes to go out and kill people. I just get the ball and try to get the
hell out of there.”

Statistically speaking, Slagle has had more goals scored upon him. On the other hand, all but one of Davidson's goals
have been scored while Slagle was in the goal. This is no reflection on Caldwell, however. It just seems that
Davidson is a second-half team. So for this season, Caldwell has played the first half and Slagle...the second. Fogleman reversed
this method in the Duke game. The experiment appeared not to be successful, however, as Davidson was shut out. It
remains to be seen whether or not Fogleman will again play Slagle in the first half against Furman this Saturday.
Both goalies said they have no preference as to which half they play, as long as they play.

SPORTS THIS WEEK
Saturday, Oct. 14
Soccer with Furman 10:30 a.m. here
Football with Furman 2 p.m. here
Cross-country with St. Andrews, Campbell all day Laurinburg
Sailing

Monday, Oct. 16
Cross-country with VMI, Washington and Lee 3 p.m. here
JV football with Duke 3 p.m. here

Tuesday, Oct. 17
Soccer with High Point 3 p.m. there

Sailors Blown Away
By JOHN McELVEEN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Sailing Team suffered defeat at home port this past weekend in the Davidson Fall Invitational Regatta. Hoping to
end their string of losses, the members of the sailing team put in a full week of ‘intensive’ practice. Despite
this effort, the Cats finished ninth.

“This last place finish is a bit harder to take,” stated Frank Somerville, who along with Mark Leonard and Jim
Stephenson sailed in B division. “I must say our hopes were up. We had a few things on our side
for a change: our boats and our lake. But we just got blown away.”

Daryl Douglas, sailing in A division with Doug McElfresh as his crew, was disqualified (DSQ’ed) in two of the first
three races. “I just cut it too close,” Douglas explained. “It was a simple port-starboard situation.”

“I felt largely responsible for our poor showing,” Douglas continued. “Mark and Frank sailed well, and without my DSQ's we
could have beaten three or four other schools.”

The Citadel, with skippers Tom Harken and Frickie Martschinck, proved to be too much of a challenge. Their first-place finish
brought back memories of last spring's Conference Championships held at Lake Norman in which The Citadel took the number one
spot. Douglas pointed out that he knew The Citadel would be tough. “They're tough anyway - but in heavy air,
they're at their best.”

Along with heavy air come fast speed and costly collisions. Such proved to be the case. In assessing the damage,
Douglas noted, “One boat was seriously damaged while the mainsheet blocks were ripped out of several others.”

“I'm sad to see the boats being torn up - especially after Somerville, Mattox, and I worked during summer break
to get them in good shape; but with a little money and a lot of work we'll have them back
in good sailing condition,” he said.

(Staff photo by Barnes)

FIGHTING THE HEAVY WINDS
Davidson sailors jockey for position in the Davidson regatta.

Duke's strong point had to be their Latin-American contingent whose play and chatter both amazed and amused the Davidson crowd.
Charlie Slagle started in goal for the first half. Duke totally dominated the play and scored four times. Davidson was
unable to mount any kind of sustained attack. The closest Davidson came to scoring was on a fine effort by
Rheinhard Pfeil whose shot hit the bottom edge of the crossbar. Paul Caldwell was in the goal for the second
half, but Duke still controlled the play and managed to score twice.

Although disappointed by the final score, Fogleman was not overly discouraged. “We never gave up, and you certainly can't say
that we were out-hustled,” he said. Several starters played with injuries, including Johnny Robinson and Tornee. The team meets Furman
in a conference game on Saturday.
