ALAN BARAGONA

Not that I’m the vindictive type, but a wrong has been done, and since it was done to me, who
better to right it? Some saboteur in the pay of the forces of reason mislabeled my column of two weeks
ago. The title, befitting the tone of my little offering, should have been “The Adventures of Mott the Wopple: The
Quest Begins.” Let not the Enemy befuddle you again, then, for, regardless of what it says up there (see above),
this week's title is “The Adventures of Mott the Wopple: The Lay of Elroy.” Despair ye not. All will be
made clear.

President

To the Editor:

I don’t believe that any member of the college community can honestly deny the continuing need that exists on this
campus for adequate and qualified student counseling. A glance at Dr. Workman’s or Dr. Hall's appointment books will bear this
observation out. We at Davidson have been fortunate in having available during the present school year two excellent and highly
qualified clinical psychologists. The counseling program is in overall excellent shape and has encouraging potential for reaching even more students
in the future.

It is because of these observations that I get to the point of this letter: specifically, to deny and dispel
any sort of rumors or reports which may be circulating within the college community concerning a conflict of interest or
an alleged violation of confidence on the part of the counselors. At no time has there ever been any breach
of faith; the confidential nature of the interviews has always been religiously adhered to.

Despite my good intentions, I, too, did a wrong. A few nights ago, Katamite Kayrat, one of my postnight cohorts,
burst into the Helper Inn, spewing righteous indignation all over the rug. My column, it seems, had snidely remarked that
the lighting on campus was inadequate. Kayrat pointed out to me that he wouldn’t have it any other way. And
I agree. God forbid that postnight Davidson should be whitewashed into anemia by blinding spotlights. Nothing is more soothing to
the postnight devotee than the spectral 4 a.m. campus, rich with shadows and speckled with pastel oases of light. Take
away that lighting and you take away the lives of countless postnight inhabitants, who flit from island to island, taking
refuge in the darkness.

Surely the most dependent of all on the contemplative nature of the early morning campus is Numb Elroy. Many’s the
time Kayrat and I have sought the comforting wisdom of that ghostly seer. Numb Elroy sits on top of the
defunct water fountain beside Phi Hall. He's always there, his palest of pale form in a weak-kneed lotus position, but
the sun all but erases him from view, so wasted, so nearly transparent is he. Only the thick darkness of
postnight Davidson gives him substance. The distinguishing feature of Numb Elroy is that his brain is completely disconnected from the
rest of his body. What he sees and speaks in no way reflects what’s going

Protests Rumors

I am sure that almost every member of this community is aware that we have at Davidson two clinical psychologists
who are men of absolute integrity on both the personal and the professional level. The malicious and unfounded reports which
have been making the rounds as of late concerning these men is nothing short of slander. It makes me sick
to believe that the originator of these rumors might be a student here at Davidson. He should know better. For
the possible damage done to the reputation of the counseling office and perhaps to the personal reputation of our counselors,
I publicly apologize.

Ralph A. Peeples ‘73
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Upon recently transferring to West Virginia University I had the occasion to visit their library to obtain some novels for
my English Literature class. Much to my surprise there were no books whatsoever to be found!! Upon lengthy inquiry as
to just where in the sam hill the books were I was informed that to obtain a book one had
to go to the circulation desk and fill out a requisition slip and one of the workers then scurried off
to the stacks (I suppose, as I have never seen them) to get the book. After a twenty-minute wait I
was informed that both “Crime and Punishment” and “Run Rabbit, Run” had been stolen. The deskman then kindly suggested that
I buy a personal copy. Later I was told that one must have a stacks pass to get into the
stacks to browse. To obtain one of these stacks passes one must be a professor, a graduate student, or have
a 3.0 or higher grade average. Since it takes two semesters to establish a grade point average at this university,
I am banned from the stacks library!! I am writing Dr. Davidson to send me some addresses of some paperback
book companies so that I can obtain a copy of a novel to read for my English Literature class. Davidson
is not so bad library-wise.

Mark O. Miller
Morgantown, West Virginia

The Davidsonian
February 11, 1972
Page Fiveon below his neck. Consequently, his body is often swollen and welt-covered without his even knowing it. Just last
week, for example, I was strolling with the Honorable Senator Roland (spelled R-o-l-a-n-d among friends) who, speaking of the new
administration, was just saying, “There is coming one whose sandals I am not fit to untie,” when we passed by
Numb Elroy, squatting complacently upon his dried-up pedestal. Though his eyes were bright with awareness of our approach, he seemed
completely unconscious of the spider that was descending from the ceiling which protects the fountain from the contaminating touch of
even rainwater. As Numb Elroy spoke, the spider began to dance its web around his legs. “I rejoice to see
you, wayfarers.” Numb Elroy always begins like that; he seldom sees any- “You have stumbled upon me in the midst
of the direst sort of academic ruminations, which thrive in solitude.” As he spoke, the spider threaded the fingers of
his left hand and worked its way across his frail chest. I asked Numb Elroy if he would prefer to
abandon his perch or at least invite some damsel to share his abode. “It is the will of the trusted
Fathers,” he said, “that distaff wanderers should pass by my fount of knowledge all but unknown, visitors only to this
parched wellspring.” The spider had by now enmeshed half of Numb Elroy’s body. Suddenly, out of the shadows flew a
predatory nocturnal Cockasnook, who swooped down below the fountain’s ceiling and spurned Numb Elroy in a particularly birdlike fashion. Elroy,
of course, continued unabated. “Why should I allow female residents and risk lowering the stature of my thirsting fountain? I
already know that my mind is superior. See with what grace and self-confidence I balance atop this dried-up relic!” As
Elroy’s lower jaw became entangled in web, the Cockasnook pecked viciously but unacknowledged at his body. When the senator and
I turned to leave, I heard a new sound among Numb Elroy's customary declamations, a muffled groan that rose from
deep within his body rather than from his head. But when it had passed, the mumbling continued. I have seen
Numb Elroy often since then, and the rhetoric has changed very little. If your hours do not permit your seeing
him in person, perk your ears next time you pass that fountain, and perhaps you'll hear, faint and as if
far off, that all too seldom heard groan.

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

Andre Previn will conduct the London Symphony Feb. 12 at 7:45 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. Charlotte Community Concerts normally require
a season ticket, but a few single admissions will be sold at $5 Saturday night. The Charlotte Symphony with Gerome
Hines will play in Ovens Auditorium at 8:15 on Feb. 24. Student tickets are $2.

“The Subject Was Roses” by Frank D. Gilroy will be presented in the Globe Circle Theatre at the Mint Museum
by the Mint Museum Drama Guild. Performances are Feb. 16, 17, 18, 19, 23, 24, 25, and 26 at 8:15
p.m. and Feb. 20 and 27 at 2:30 p.m. Tickets are $3.

“Le Barbier de Seville” by Beaumarchais will be presented in the original French by Le Treteau de Paris. The professional
French company will present the play in Dana Auditorium at Queens College on Feb. 19 at 2 p.m. Student tickets
are $2.50 and may be purchased at Davidson from Francis Ghigo.

The Preservation Hall Jazz Band Concert will be held Feb. 18 at 8:15 in Dana Auditorium at Queens College.

“Here Lies Jeremy Troy” premieres tonight at the Mint Hill Dinner Theatre. The buffet opens at 6:45 p.m. and the
play at 8:30. Tickets are $8 Sunday, $9 Friday and Saturday.

“Plaza Suite” continues at the Pineville Dinner Theatre. The buffet is open from 7 to 8:15 p.m. with the curtain
rising on Neil Simon’s play at 8:45. Prices range from $7 to $10, depending on the night.

“Promises, Promises” and “Carousel” will be presented in Ovens Auditorium in their Broadway Hits series. Curtains will rise on “Promises,
Promises,” Feb. 19, and “Carousel,” Feb. 25, at 8 p.m. Tickets to either play are $5.50, $6.50, and $7.50.

White Trash, Edgar Winter, and Pacific Gas and Electric will play at a rock concert in Park Center at 8
p.m. Feb. 18.

“Acadian Reflections,” a film on the Acadian National Park by Robert L. Fultz, is being presented by the Mecklenburg Audubon
Society in Dana Auditorium at Queens College on Feb. 15 at 7:45. Student tickets are $1.

Museum Without Walls presents “Le Corbusier” and “The Greek Temple” Feb. 15 and “The Cubist Epoch” and “Germany-Dada” Feb. 20
in Dana Auditorium at Queens College at 3 p.m. Tickets are $2.

Paintings and drawings by Dave Freeman are on exhibition in Gallery 501 at the Mint Museum of Art. Drawings and
graphic pieces by H. B. Howe and landscape impressions by Joseph Strother will be displayed in the gallery of the
Rowe Creative Arts Building at UNC-C through Feb. 26.
