Vol. LXI, No. Nineteen The Davidsonian Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students MARCH 10,
1972 (Staff photo by Barnes) WELL HELLO THERE H. Edmunds White supports increase in coed enrollment. Female Applications Rise; Nicholls
Wants Coed Dorm By PHIL BISHOP Staff Writer At least 35 women exchange students will attend Davidson next year, more
than three times the number of coeds now on campus. About 25 of the girls will come from the four
Virginia women’s colleges in the Eight College Exchange Program. The other women will be temporary students who have applied to
Davidson on their own initiative, and who may become the college’s first genuine coeds. College officials attribute the sharp rise
in applicants to the Consortium to informal “recruiting” by former participants in the program. Only about a dozen women have
come to Davidson in each of the first two years of the Consortium, but applications have more than doubled for
1972-73. At least 10 more women applicants have been accepted under a policy to allow Queens women to participate in
the Consortium by becoming Davidson students. The policy was extended to accept any qualified female applicant as an exchange student.
Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said, “We will be happy to take as many exchange students as
we can from other institutions.” He also said these coeds would be welcome to remain to graduate should the trustees
vote this spring to implement coeducation. The question of housing for the large number of coeds must be considered by
the administration. Director of Housing Scotty Nicholls said the Consortium Committee had recommended the girls be housed in the top
two floors of Little Dormitory. The same recommendation was rejected last year in favor of renovating Grey House. Senate Challenges
Rise In Transcript Charges By BOB HOWELL Asst. Managing Editor Action in the SGA Senate this week centered on approval
and support of a proposal which challenges the college’s raising the fee for preparing grade transcripts from one to two
dollars. Senior Kurt Geisinger presented a report to the Senate in which he recounted his dealings with the Registrar’s Office
and his subsequent investigation of transcript costs. The present fee covers the processing of one transcript plus one update (most
transcripts require two) of a student’s record. Geisinger’s study revealed that a transcript or an update could be produced for
about 50 cents. Nicholls felt the administration would approve a women’s dorm. “Last year people recoiled at the idea of
a coed dorm, but now the atmosphere is much different.” The committee chose Little because they felt Duke should remain
available to senior men students. There are still conflicting opinions in the administration as to the future of the Consortium
if Davidson should indeed go coed. Those who see the program as a substitute for coeducation wish to abolish Davidson’s
participation, while others who see it as a chance to live in a different environment want Davidson to remain in
the program. EPC Survey Shows By DOUG BROWN Managing Editor A survey by the Educational Policy Committee's Subcommittee on Coeducation
of eight formerly all-male colleges and universities similar to Davidson College which have recently become coeducational has revealed that coeducation
has caused no serious problems and is widely considered “a good move.” The institutions investigated, considered “at least roughly comparable
to Davidson in size and educational program,” were Colgate University, Dartmouth College, Franklin and Marshall College, Hamilton College, Kenyon College,
Princeton University, the University of the South (Sewanee) and Williams College. “We were pleased and rather surprised to find that
the administrative officials we contacted were willing to devote considerable time to answering our inquiries,” said the subcommittee chairman, Associate
Professor of History W. Brown Patterson. “We also received from them a number of studies and reports which had been
prepared on their campuses when the question of becoming coeducational was being discussed. “The questions we asked,” he continued, “were
intended to elicit information on a number of important areas: enrollment, admissions, costs, curriculum and planning.” All but one of
the institutions showed “substantial increases in total enrollment” by adding women students while keepingMale enrollment remained the same. Projected enrollments
for the near future vary from 1,000 to 4,000, and men-to-women ratios are projected at from 1.3:1 to 4:1. The
discrepancy in the two figures is based chiefly on opposing estimates of labor costs. Comptroller Robert W. Davidson estimated that
it took a secretary 20 minutes to process a transcript, which would allow one dollar compensation per transcript to a
secretary who makes three dollars an hour. However, Geisinger cited several cases of students requesting transcripts who found that the
information could be processed in less than two minutes. His analysis of cost allows four minutes per transcript, which, at
three dollars an hour, would come to 20 cents.

Geisinger was led to make his investigation when he realized that for the average student, who may need 15 or
20 transcripts in applying to graduate schools or for jobs, doubling the fee would prove to be a sizable increase.
“I had called Queens, CPCC, UNC-C, and Johnson C. Smith, and found that at all these schools the cost of
transcripts was one dollar apiece,” Geisinger said. “I decided to inquire from Mr. Cornell about the rationale behind the increase,
and he attributed it to rising labor and material costs.” From there, Geisinger made his investigation and then his report
to the Senate. He told the Senate that he had recommended to the Financial Office that, to lower the cost
of transcripts for the average student, the fee for any transcript or update be set at 50 cents each. “They
would not, I believe, lose money doing this,” Geisinger said. “My own cost analysis bears this out.” He also pointed
out the fact that students in the Honors College are not presently required to pay for transcripts and said he
had recommended that they be asked to do so.

Geisinger’s third recommendation to the Financial Office was that a new application for transcript and transmittal letter be written. “The
present form does not inform one just what is being included on a transcript,” he said.

The Senate also listened to an appeal made by former SGA President Danny Clodfelter, who intends to compile a dossier
of cases of students who have come before the Curriculum Requirement Committee requesting exemption from certain requirements. “I believe that
there are people who have for certain reasons needed exemptions and the committee has gone wrong,” Clodfelter said, and pointed
out, “There are no students on the committee to decide what is a legitimate exemption.” He asked the Senate to
supply the manpower necessary to gather cases and to assemble the dossier which would document those specific instances. The request
will be handled by the Senate’s committee on Educational Affairs.

The Senate also passed a resolution, presented by Junior Senator Steve Suflas, which would provide for the establishment of a
Grievance Committee. The resolution stated that this direct link between the students, faculty, and administration would be to settle disagreements
and misunderstandings that arose among these constituencies.

Coeducation Works

“In none of the eight colleges,” commented Patterson, “was the curriculum reshaped for the admission of women.” In general, these
schools felt that the kind of liberal arts curriculum which they were providing for men was also appropriate for women.
The largest number of curricular changes were in physical education courses. No single answer emerged in response to the question
of whether the admission of women had any significant effect on the intellectual and cultural life of the college. Four
said the effect was positive; the others either did not answer the question or reported no discernable change. At most
of the institutions, planning took place over several years and involved students, faculty, staff, and trustees in the decision-making process.
Efforts were made to survey (See EPC, page 2).
