Page Two April 21, 1972 The Davidsonian

Students Faced With Housing Neglect

AN ANALYSIS By TODD EADES Contributing Editor

There is a problem in married student housing. The college provides few facilities for married students, who often face considerable
trouble in finding suitable living accommodations. Housing is often a considerable distance from campus, thus alienating married students physically as
well as socially. The college is geared for the single student who resides in the residence halls, and despite its
commitment to the residential college concept, it has done little in the past to assist married students in their particular
needs.

The college has a minimum of four units to rent to married students and a maximum of seven to eight
units, depending on faculty need. There are presently 39 married students living off campus. These units are of inferior quality.
Jackson Heights, nicknamed Cardboard Village, was constructed after World War II. The most important question concerns the college's responsibility towards
married student housing. Unfortunately, this remains unanswered.

Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls has mixed feelings about the college’s responsibility towards married students’ housing and is not
sure that the college has a tremendous responsibility. Nicholls does believe that Davidson as a residential college has a certain
responsibility that it now neglects.

There have been several student-initiated studies done. One of the first was by Phil Hazel as a president of the
Married Student Association in the fall of 1968. He presented the problem of the married student, which included financial and
emotional problems and the lack of adequate counseling as well as housing. “Housing is a universal problem. Bad housing is
a constant irritant. More important, the location of the housing may determine whether or not the couple finds a satisfactory
group of friends, or has much of a relationship to the campus. Housing is a basic method of social structuring,”
he found.

Tom Robertson presented a study of five alternatives on married student housing to the SGA in May 1970. Robertson advocated
that the college provide land and build an apartment complex to house married students. It was desirable that this be
on campus, Robertson said and quoted Hazel's report, “Housing is very much related to the problem of belonging. Married students
do not belong anywhere, not with single undergraduates, not with faculty, nor with townspeople. There is no built-in community to
which they automatically belong.” Robertson continued, “The college may even come to realize that these students, previously alienated, may have
a very real contribution to make to campus life.”

The most exhaustive study done was an extended studies project by Michael Johnson presented to Dr. Robert Avinger last fall.
Johnson did a demand study of married student housing. Its conclusions were that there exists a demand for 15 to
20 new units to house Davidson College married students. The data indicates that at least 50 percent of the units
need to be two-bedroom dwellings. The units need not be within walking distance of the college, although such close proximity
would be highly desirable. The type of dwellings is not so significant, but single-family units are preferred. If these 15
to 20 units were made available, they could be rented for about $105 per month.

Johnson's report contradicts a number of previous general assumptions concerning married student housing, such as his finding that the present
housing available “is of lower quality than the students desire, even though the students are willing to pay higher rents
to acquire better quality housing,” and that distance is not a crucial factor.

The college does not officially assist students in locating houses, although Bourdeaux and Nicholls both have lists of rental units
and the Dean of Students office often has contacts. But this is all informal and housing is still very difficult
to find.

Davidson's decision to go co-educational, if approved by the trustees in May, could substantially relieve the problem. Preliminary studies for
the new dormitories needed to house the additional students are already being done by the Student Life Committee (SLC) and
by Vice President of Finance and Development C. David.

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors: DOUG BROWN, ALEC HOON
News Editor: TOM AINSWORTH
Photography Editor: BILL BARNES
Assistant Managing Editors: BILL GIDUZ, BOB HOWELL, THOM NICOLL, MIKE TANNER
Assistant Business Managers: RICHARD ROMEYN, RICH SMITH, PHIL STIKES
Assistant Sports Editors: HOWARD BOYD, CHARLIE TERRELL
Copy Editors: BILL ELLETT, LEX VEAZEY
Contributors this week: David Arant, John Cassels, Terry Hirst, David Melton, Richard Romeyn, and Charlie Slagle.
Sports Editor: JOE EARLE
Associate Editors: ALAN BARAGONA, ROBERT TOUCHTON, GRAY WILSON
Contributing Editors: PHIL BISHOP, TOM BRUCE, TODD EADES, JIM HANNA
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKOM, KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL
Photographers: DAVE DOTY, TODD EADES, JOE RODRIGUEZ, BOB STRAND
Circulation: ROBERT GATES, GREG MITCHELL

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.Cornell envisions a
number of small housing units in a cluster pattern containing suites that could be used by married students as well
as single students. The problem with this seemingly ideal solution is that it is at least two years in the
future. The college is hesitant to build an apartment complex because the financial considerations are not feasible. The best solution
is for the college to encourage private investors to build an apartment complex in Davidson. Some steps in this direction
have been taken, but they are limited. The possibility that these units would be subsidized in any fashion by the
college is not very great, according to Cornell. Both Terry and Nicholls would like to see the private sector build
in the area, and both agree that any apartment complex for married students should be for married students only. This
presents a problem to the private investor concerned with a return on his investment who might want to rent to
tenants other than students. But Cornell sees no college action on the problem in the next two years as far
as building is concerned. The problem of married student housing still exists despite studies and suggestions. The first step to
a solution to the problem is a commitment of some kind, some kind of policy statement, of the college’s responsibility
to married student housing. (Staff photo by Barnes)

Revue cast pantomimes the workings of a computer.

‘American Life’ Presented

A REVIEW By TERRY HIRST Staff Writer

A. R. Gurney Jr., author of “Scenes From American Life,” calls his play “A Play in Two Acts”; Rupert Barber
calls his production of it “A Revue.” Herein lies the difference. By calling his production “A Revue,” Barber presumably is
more concerned with presenting us with a collage of memorabilia, satire, and nostalgia, rather than a unified dramatic experience. His
addition of a song-and-dance number at the beginning, a strobe light, a raid on the theater, and the Bunny Hop
at the cocktail party are examples of a vaudevillian flavor that he has tried to add. I am not sure
that it works. By reducing the play to a revue, he nullifies a lot of the profundity which the playwright
may have originally intended. The theme, if there is one, is a criticism of social eliteness and an admission that
we rarely profit from our mistakes or the mistakes of our parents. The play is basically good. The production should
be better.

Barber has made some subtle improvements on the script. The pantomime of the computer in the election scene is an
ingenious bit of stage business. He has also done the playwright several injustices. Breaking up the futuristic automobile scene, originally
intended for one car and one couple, into five cars with five couples is a precarious addition to an already
disunified production. The keys to a production of this nature are improvisation and timing. Both were off Wednesday night. The
whole production needs to be tighter. The scenes should hit us hard and fast and continue to drive their message
to the end. The actors should be there and ready when the lights come up and attack each scene, each
line, like it’s their own tour de force. The Hodson stage, in its immensity, makes this rapid movement difficult, but
if lighting cues were more precise, if lines were not frequently inaudible, if the set were moved forward and used
along with the side doors to mask actors, props, and costumes, the whole play would move a lot faster.

I did not get a sense of enthusiasm from all of the actors. There were very few attempts to radically
change personalities between the scenes. There should be a more creative attempt at improvisation; a more concerned effort to establish
a distinctive character for each scene. A notable exception to this is Steve Suflas, who was able consistently to project
his personality across the curtain line. I applaud his enthusiasm. George Draughon, a master of mime, was not at his
best. Ray Mendenhall makes the best of the opening number, and Ken Jones, in the Encounter Group skit, takes a
complex character and lets us sympathize with him.

The second half, thanks to the playwright, gives the cast considerably more of a dramatic challenge. For a few scenes,
Gurney gives up his everlasting criticism of the older generation and offers some poignant character insights. In the restaurant scene
and in the canoe-burning scene, Jennet Robinson finally proves her dramatic sensibilities in a beautiful bit of timing and grace.
Chris Holly, Martha Taylor, Granger Roller, Bobbie Blackwood, Bob Bolick, and Gus Succop all could have been better if they
had been given better parts and, in fact, a better play with a little more substance. Even Cecil Burney’s Virgil
Foxisms at the Steinway had an air of improvisation about it.

Charlie Hodge’s set is a clever combination of a design reminiscent of constructivist sculpture of the 1920s, painted in brilliantly
modern colors. It provides an energetic backdrop to the basic black costumes.
