The Davidsonian  
March 17, 1972  
Page Seven  

Cats Meet Syracuse In NIT Tomorrow  
By JOE EARLE  
Sports Editor  

Davidson moves into its first post-season game in four years tomorrow afternoon meeting Syracuse in Madison Square Garden in New York City in the first round of the National Invitational Tournament. This is Syracuse’s sixth entry into the NIT, but the Orange has made it past the first round only once. This year’s Syracuse squad rolled up an impressive 21-5 season, defeating such teams as Fordham.

Sidelines with JOE EARLE  
Sports Editor  

College athletics and administrative politics seldom, if ever, mix. Whenever a team becomes involved in the administrative and financial shuffles that are constantly involved in the running of a college, that team suffers, both in coaching and in spirit. But, in times of budget tightening and administrative change, athletics are often pointed out as the first area for cutting back expenditures and effort. The first athletic programs to feel the tightening of budget belts are those considered “minor sports” by the college administration. This is the bind in which the Davidson soccer team finds itself.

The soccer team is a “minor sport” that is trying to cross the line that separates it from the “major sports” of football and basketball. Crossing this line involves a change of attitude on both the parts of players and coaches of the team and the college administration. Thus far, this change appears one-sided. The attitudes of both the players and coaches of the team and the administration have been brought out into the open by the recent controversy surrounding the hiring of a coach for the team. The story of this controversy seems almost to be a fairy tale.

Earlier this year Head Soccer Coach Harry Fogleman entered his resignation from that post. Fogleman took the job several years ago as a fill-in coach, because someone had to take the job in order to maintain the team. Fogleman had fared well as coach of the team, and while he was head coach the team took two consecutive conference championships and amassed a great deal of student support. A great deal of the credit for this achievement goes, however, to Assistant Coach Peter Sterling. Sterling worked as a coach for the team for the past two years, and did a great deal of the work, both in coaching and recruiting, that enabled the team to improve greatly in such a short period of time.

When Fogleman retired it was assumed by most people involved that Sterling would take his place. But when John M. Bevan, vice president for academic affairs, offered Sterling the job, he refused. Sterling's refusal upset both the team and Bevan, who finally rehired Fogleman as coach. Because of this shuffling, and the enmity it fostered, Sterling will likely have little to do with the team in the future.

According to Sterling, his actions were made in the best interests of the team. He is one who considers the soccer team a rising “major sport,” and a sport that will be of great benefit to the college. Sterling is bitter about the treatment of the team, and the actions surrounding the hiring of the coach have made him even more so. “It is an indication of the college's attitude concerning the sport,” he said. “They couldn't care less whether the team had an 11-2 season or a 2-11 season. They merely support the program in order to keep the students happy.

“Without a good coach the team cannot progress,” he said. “I turned the job down because I felt that I wasn't really qualified to do it. I'm not a soccer coach. I've been working with the team because I like the sport and the players, but I'm not qualified to serve as a coach.”

Sterling said that he understood that the college intended to hire a new coach. If he refused, he thought, they would be forced to hire someone more qualified for the position. “I feel that this is just another indication of the administration’s attitude concerning the soccer program. There is no way to build a really outstanding program under the present situation, no way to recruit or keep the team together. The team doesn't play enough games or have the type of schedule that could attract great players, and what is a potentially outstanding sports program has been allowed to fall apart because of administrative apathy.

“I don't see where the administration of the college has ever made any effort to support the soccer program. No member of the administration has even congratulated us for winning the conference.”

Thus, through a move that has angered and disappointed both Bevan and many players, Sterling has forced the issue of the status of soccer. Through his part as the ogre of the tale, he has forced the college to consider what it wants from the soccer program. Is the program to become something merely to appease those students that have a desire to play soccer or is it to grow into the “major sport” that it has shown the potential of becoming? The question involves priorities, both in attitude and money, and must be answered now, for the team has reached the dividing line and must go one way or the other.Temple, St. Johns, Duke, and losing only to American University, Louisville, Holy Cross, Penn State, and Pittsburgh. The Cats will enter the tourney without the services of leading scorer Joe Sutter. Sutter is traveling to Mexico to study and was unable to return for the NIT. "Joe left last Thursday," Cat Coach Terry Holland said. "We didn’t receive the NIT bid until late Friday, and by that time, he wasn't able to return. If we had received the bid before he left, we might have worked it out."

The Cats and the Orange have only faced three mutual opponents, and Syracuse has rolled up the more impressive slate. The Orange defeated West Virginia in Morgantown, something the Cats were unable to do, and they lost to Pittsburgh in Pittsburgh. The Cats fell to the Panthers here in Charlotte. Both teams defeated St. Johns by slim margins.

Syracuse is sparked by a 6-1 senior guard named Greg Kohls. Kohls has had quite a successful season, averaging 27 points a game. This has placed Kohls fifth or sixth nationally in scoring, and he has been as high as eighth from the foul line. He is sixth in all-time Syracuse scorers with 1316 points over two years. Kohls has scored over 30 points in 11 games and contributed 18 points in last year's loss in the NIT.

Holland complimented Kohls' play but said he felt the team could effectively shut him out. He plans to give the job of guarding the backcourt terror to T. J. Pecorak. The rest of the team is made up primarily of Mike Lee, a junior forward, and Bob Dooms, a 6-5 sophomore center. Lee has averaged 18.2 points a game, and Dooms has pulled eight rebounds a game. Like the Cats, Syracuse has no real big man, with most of their players in the 6-2 and 6-6 range. They maintain a fast, "run-and-gun" offense.

Despite Syracuse’s scoring prowess, Holland sees their greatest threat in their full-court press. "They are fast and put out a terrific press that will be hard to counter," he said. Despite these impressive statistics, Holland feels confident the Cats can run with, and over, Syracuse tomorrow. If the Cats defeat Syracuse, they will move on to face Maryland, led by former Davidson coach Lefty Driesell, on Monday. Maryland was invited to the NIT after losing the last round of the ACC tournament to North Carolina, last year’s NIT champ.

Cats Host Catawba, ECU; Pipan, Beaston Injured
By BRUCE BECKER
Staff Writer

Pitching problems have brought the Wildcats three early baseball losses, as they dropped games to Guilford 6-2, Pfeiffer 17-10, and Catawba 7-5. Today the Cats will face Catawba in a rematch here at 3 p.m., and tomorrow they play East Carolina, also at home at 2 p.m.

Davidson's ace pitchers, Rick Pipan and Davis Beaston, will be lost to the squad for most, if not all, of the season. Coach Tom Stevens has pitched Ross Manire, Frank Folger, Mike Frye, Greg Cameron, Dwight Plemmons, and Joe Duncan but has yet to find a successful combination. The biggest surprise has been some overall fine stickwork at the plate. Greg Sikes has been hitting consistently and with power. Jack Willits, Harold Wilkerson, and Mark Rodgman, batting third, fourth, and sixth, have contributed nine RBIs between them. The team is maintaining a .278 average.

The story of the early season, though, is the team's pitching problems. Pipan has a torn muscle in the back of his shoulder. He will probably be lost to the team for at least four weeks. Beaston has a loose muscle problem on top of his shoulder. His condition is uncertain, but the chances are slim that he will ever pitch effectively again. The remainder of the pitching staff is plagued by sore arms and lack of work. Because of the weather, most of the staff was unable to work over spring vacation. Manire and Plemmons have sore arms. Duncan, just off the freshman basketball team, needs work. Folger and Cameron have made a few costly mistakes which marred otherwise good performances.

The hopes for future successes are placed on the pitchers surmounting their early season difficulties and the continued good hitting by Sikes and the remainder of the lineup. In the Guilford game, the team hit well despite a lack of practice. Wilkerson drove in both runs in a two-for-five day. The Cats collected ten hits but left 12 men on base. Last Saturday against Pfeiffer, the game looked like batting practice. Sikes hit a ball which Wilkerson called "the hardest hit ball I've ever seen in college." Willits slashed a three-run homer, and George Weicker and Bill Barnhill hit doubles. Nevertheless, two home runs and four doubles by Pfeiffer brought the Cats their second loss.

Against Catawba last Tuesday, the Davidson nine scored early with four in the first and one in the third. In the fifth inning, Folger started getting the ball up, and Catawba hit him for five singles. Some bad breaks turned the hits into five runs.

(Staff photo by Barnes)
BEATING THE PITCHING PROBLEM
Ross Manire has moved in to fill the pitching gap left by injured Rick Pipan and Davis Beaston.