Page Eight January 7, 1972

Well fans, here it is, what you've all been waiting for: the bi-annual mid-season pre-season Boyd poll. With thirty basketball
squads of all sizes, shapes, and talents, it was even tougher than usual forecasting the outcome of the three league
races.

The SAE’s look to be a slight favorite in League A. Most of last year's squad returns: Nick Livengood, Bruce
Baird, Dave Weaver, Dave Faison, Steve Battle, and good sophs Eldon Basham, John Webel, and Steve Keller give the E’s
great depth shooting, although lack of a good big man could hurt. Still, this is a strong squad with a
good shot at winning what is probably the toughest league.

Toughest competition for the E’s will come from Delt II and Watts II, with Delt II getting the nod for
second. Jim Brown and Andy Davis are all-star calibre, and seasoned vets abound including Hugh Gaither, Woody Montgomery, and Andy
Ingles. 6'5" soph Bill McIlwain will help underneath.

Watts II features sharpshooting Juan Sanchez and the all-around excellence of Mark Rodgman, and appears the best. Fanny & Mabel,
last year’s runners-up, lost Greg Gerdy and Frank Clark, and gained Rollie Sumwalt, and overall is weaker. Bill Barnhill is
experienced and runs the offense well, and with Sumwalt forms a top-notch backcourt.

Emanon III got off to a surprising start, but will probably fade down the stretch. Bill Bencini is a sparkplug
guard, and 6'5" Bill Giduz rebounds well. A fairly solid club, but lacks the big guns to reach the playoffs.

The defending champion Pikas were destroyed by graduation, losing All-IMAC Mark Affeldt and Floyd Strand, and point man Dennis Watson
went JYA. Only starter back is John Calhoun, and the Pikas depend too much on his offensive firepower. It’s a
long drop for the Pikas after two unbeaten seasons.

Cannon II is led by Dan Henderson, who does it all but frequently has too little help. Pat Bennett, Chuck
Gladue, and Donnie Bain are other top players. No threat for the playoffs, but looks like the best of the
bottom four in the league.

Sentelle II lacks scoring punch, and needs better organization, but has an adequate supply of talent. 6'5" Bill Smith looms
large in the middle, with Tom Soos, Rick Mullen, Ward Pritchett, and Billy Lynn, all capable performers. This team sorely
lacks a big scorer, but if it jells might play a spoiler role.

The Nus are vastly improved over a year ago but they had a long way to go. Tom Case and
Dave Duggins have pumped new life into the attack, and Bill Sims, Steve Spicer, and Skip Greathouse can all play.
The Nus lack depth and size to be a real factor.

The Plumbers deserve the name. They simply lack size, depth, speed, talent; in short, everything. John Carlson, Ben Towe, and
Den Parman have paced an anemic offense, and that speaks volumes.

The biggest team in the IMAC, Keeter’s, figures to walk away with League B. 6'6" Gary Scibal, 6'7" Bob Peele,
6'7" Frank Soos, and 6'4" Mike O’Malley give them awesome rebounding power. Steve Williams may be the best guard in
the IMAC. Depth is a problem, but all things considered, this is probably the best team around.

However, the Delts, Betas, and PAX all have strong teams, and it won’t be a cakewalk. The Delts feature Greg
Sikes and his brother Mike, along with Scotty Shipp, Mike Kelley, Bill Huffman, and Jimmy Wright, all veterans. Delts are
solid, but may have spread talent too thin (with two teams) to win it.

The Betas once again are sparked by quick-shooting Randy Ely, but he has more help than last year. PAX has
two of the best sophs in Mike Harding and Charlie Slagle, to go with returnees Tom Dover, Mac Donaldson, Steve
Suflas, and Larry Duncan.

The KA’s will have trouble making up for lack of a good big man and the loss of Steve Nators.

Grapplers Show Youth Move
By JIM HANNA
Copy Editor

In keeping with the mood of the country, Davidson's intercollegiate athletics program seems to be engaged in a “youth movement”
of its own. Just witness the teams that Davidson has fielded this year: theCross-country team's top runners were mostly freshmen,
and the Wildcats’ basketball bench includes several sophomores, four of whom see action regularly. The trend has continued into the
minor winter sports, as both the swimming and wrestling teams are depending mostly on athletes who are in the first
half of their college careers. Davidson's matmen will be going for their third victory today when they meet UNC-Charlotte here
at Davidson. The wrestlers, coached by Charles Parker, have already beaten Catawba College and St. Andrews by lopsided scores, and
according to team member Miles Ward, “most everybody has won their matches.” Ward said the team, whose roster includes only
one senior, is “a pretty good team, but we can’t really compete with Furman, William and Mary, and other schools
that give a lot of scholarships.” However, Ward mentioned that several Wildcat wrestlers might be contenders for conference titles in
their individual weight classes.

Swimming coach Tom Stevens has found his team in somewhat of a dilemma over the lack of experienced personnel. However,
Stevens explained that four members of last year’s team are in Europe this year, and that there are very few
upperclassmen on the team. The aquamen open their season’s competition today against Morris Harvey College at 3 p.m. in Davidson's
pool.

$6 value
$1.50 value
$5.00 value
$12.50 all for only $6

“Your reference service saved me much valuable time which I put in on other subjects. Result: 5 As and 1
B.” CN, Ann Arbor, Mich.

“The Vantage Point” is a book put together by 5 ghost writers and edited by LBJ. Your reference service is
almost like my own personal ghost writer.” LC, Gainesville, Fla.

“The 3 reference books of which every student needs personal copies are Study Abroad, a good dictionary and thesaurus. I
got a $10,000 4-year scholarship from Study Abroad." AR, Berkeley, Calif.

STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Service offered:
* Scholarship information service. Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide!
* Travel service. Plans interesting tours to exotic lands!
* Reference Service. Drafts term papers, essays, book reports, theses, etc., frequently using primary sources available only in the Library
of Congress! We do not actually write the finished assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable educational experience
and defeat the very purpose of writing for oneself in the first place. We will provide background information and bibliographies
which rank with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclopaedia reference services available only with expensive sets. Limit
of one draft at a small additional charge, per semester per student in good standing. We cannot answer any question
which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, lawyer, architect, engineer, or other licensed practitioner, nor can we provide
advice concerning your financial investments. Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or provide home study courses.

The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization is a specialized agency of the United Nations dedicated to peace and
education.

THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY, a non-profit non-political organization dedicated to helping students to help themselves, offers:

STUDY ABROAD
* New 19th Edition
* Each copy is trilingual in English, French, and Spanish
The most complete scholarship directory in the world lists more than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans, and grants in more than
129 countries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of study, assistance, HOW, WHEN, AND WHERE TO APPLY! Reflects the
scholarship approach based on financial need!

VACATION STUDY ABROAD
* Each copy is trilingual in English, French, and Spanish
More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With the price
war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe this summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD
tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses, seminars, summer schools, scholarships, and travel grants available
each year to students, teachers, and other young people and adults planning to undertake study or training abroad during their
vacations. These data are provided by some 500 organizations in 54 countries!

Name: _______________
Address: _______________
City, State, Zip: _______________

Student Aid Society, PO Box 39042 Friendship Station, Washington, D.C. 20016

Gentlemen: I enclose $6 for Study Abroad, Vacation Study Abroad, and annual dues.
