Page Twelve November 3, 1972

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, November 3
10:00 a.m. Movie: “Millhouse”
8:00 p.m. Movie: “Millhouse”
10:15 p.m. Movie: “Little Big Man”
8:00 p.m. Major Drama Production: “School for Scandal”
10:15 p.m. Movie: “Little Big Man”

Saturday, November 4
8:30 a.m. Graduate Record Exam
8:00 p.m. Movie: “Little Big Man”
10:15 p.m. Major Drama Production: “School for Scandal”
10:15 p.m. Movie: “Little Big Man”

Monday, November 6
All week: Art Exhibit: James Bumgardner
9:00 a.m. Gallery Talk: James Bumgardner
5:45 p.m. Free Concert: Ann Burnham, Violist
Christian Fellowship

Tuesday, November 7
4:00 p.m. Election Central
7:00 p.m. Movie: “Dead Heat on a Merry-go-Round”
9:00 p.m. Movie: “Dead Heat on a Merry-go-Round”

Wednesday, November 8
All day: Columbia University School of Business
All day: Emory University School of Business
1:20 p.m. Wednesday Afternoon Chowder Society

Thursday, November 9
All day: University of Georgia School of Law

Friday, November 10
All day: Sacred Music Convocation
7:00 p.m. Movie: “The Andromeda Strain”
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital: Marilyn Mason
9:00 p.m. Movie: “The Andromeda Strain”

Saturday, November 11
All day: Sacred Music Convocation
6:00 p.m. Movie: “The Andromeda Strain”
8:00 p.m. Concert: John Laudermilk
9:00 p.m. Movie: “The Andromeda Strain”

Locations:
Love Auditorium
Hodson Hall
Chambers Dining Hall
Stowe Galleries
Martin Room
Student Union
Rathskeller
Cunningham Fine Arts and Davidson College Church
Morrison Room

Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
170 N. Main, Mooresville, N.C.

Fully qualified and can start at once. Write for details. No obligation. Send resume to:
“THE SUNDRY SHOPPE” FOR ADDED INCOME
NO EXPERIENCE OR SELLING REQUIRED
You will become part of a national firm, which selects men and women of ability to become part of a
proven success!

OFFER:
Solid growth
Lucrative location obtained by corporation
Complete training
Dependable quality equipment
Expansion financing available

REQUIRE:
Name, address, and phone number
Minimum investment of $1650.00

HEADACHE-BAR VENDORS CORP.
MARKETING DIRECTOR
DEPT. L. 1462
Manchester, Maryland 21102

College Maintenance Installs New Lighting For Trial Use
By BRUCE CORSER
Staff Writer

Davidson's maintenance department is in the process of experimenting with different types of lighting around the campus to help improve
security. During the summer, temporary overhead hookup lights were installed in certain areas on the campus. Lights were placed in
areas in front of Chambers, surrounding the dorms, and around the fine arts building. This was done as a part
of the total effort to make Davidson more secure, especially since the advent of coeducation. Grover Meetze, director of the
physical plant, pointed out that these lights were samples being used on a trial basis.an experimental basis to determine the
best type of lighting for Davidson. Permanent campus lighting will then be effected in three phases. The first phase, encompassing
the area around the fine arts building and the dorms, will be completed by "next July at a cost in
the neighborhood of $10,000," according to Meetze. The second phase, around the Patterson Court vicinity, and the third phase, including
the church and Dana building, will be finished over a period of several years. Meetze said that "these phases are
flexible, and the Student Security Committee is going to make recommendations before any standards are set. In fact, any student
reaction to lighting is welcomed."

Meetze related that "since about 1958" plans have been in the works for some permanent lighting. He added that the
last budget appropriated money for the development of lighting and that permanent fixtures could have been installed during the summer.
The delivery period was from six to eight weeks though, so Meetze felt that to install permanent lighting over the
summer would have been rushing the situation. "We aren't delaying," he said. "We just need more time to experiment." He
went on to say that he has to come up with the right type of fixture which will harmonize with
campus architecture. He added, "To be aesthetically correct, wires will be underground."

"There is a conflict between trying to beautify the campus and trying to improve security," he said. "A person should
feel secure, but not exposed." In an effort to maintain a high quality of lighting, an incandescent or a color-corrective
mercury vapor fixture will be used. Meetze thought that the plain mercury vapor lamps would have too much of a
glow.

Paid for by Martin For Congress Committee A. Z. Smith, Treasurer

JIM HOLSHOUSER CARES ABOUT:

Paid for by Davidson Youth for HOLSHOUSER: Vince Rabil, Charles Robinson, Co-Chairmen George Kaneklides, Chris Loeblein, Gary Jarrell, Robert Touchton,
Phil Stikes, Bob Sanders, Ed Sibley, Brant Bills, David Francis, John Steely, Earl McColl, David Dale, Bob Doares, Chip Schleider,
Don Long, Chris Ely, Clark McChesney, John Hornickel, Tom Tornee, Bill Smith, Gary Applewhite, Steve Bell

YOUTH: A young man himself (age 38), he fought since 1967 not only to give us the vote, but also
the right to hold public office.

MINORITIES: Jim has promised full participation for women, blacks, and young people in his administration. He wants a full partnership
in a better North Carolina for all North Carolinians.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION: Jim is the only statewide candidate to show concern over the environmental implications of the New Hope Dam
Project. He has studied carefully the record of state government in enforcing pollution regulations, and finds that record less than
satisfactory. Jim is committed to work for fair and effective enforcement of our anti-pollution laws.

PUBLIC EDUCATION: Jim has offered a comprehensive and balanced program for education in North Carolina. He is committed to upgrading
teachers' salaries, reducing classroom size, expanding the kindergarten system, and increasing support for vocational training. His program is geared to
meet the individual needs of all children in our state.

JIM HOLSHOUSER CARES ABOUT US. LET'S ELECT HOLSHOUSER GOVERNOR ON NOVEMBER 7.
