Records Show Juniors Deficient in PE Credit
By TOM BRUCE
Contributing Editor

Davidson students who do not master four individual sports and one team sport during their four years at Davidson will not graduate. “There won't be any more liberalization of our basic physical education requirements,” said Chip Stone, Davidson's new Physical Education coordinator. “We've gone through a number of changes in the past couple of years, but the requirements as they now stand will be enforced.”

Stone said that he was somewhat worried by this year's Junior Class, the Class of 1974. Departmental records show that out of 262 juniors, only 87 have completed the P.E. requirements which are supposed to be finished by the end of the sophomore year. “There are 175 juniors who are in arrears in compiling P.E. credits for graduation,” Stone explained. “The majority of them lack only one or two courses, so their situation is not critical now. I don't want them to ignore this situation until it is too late.”

Six seniors have been notified of deficiencies in P.E. credits. Eleven others are enrolled in the Honors College and are exempt from conventional requirements. Stone said that he would send out postcards to the delinquent juniors early in the winter term. “Some of the juniors may be playing the waiting game, hoping that the P.E. requirement will be abolished entirely,” Stone speculated. “We aren't anticipating any move toward abolishing the program,” Stone said.

However, some members of the Junior Class are reluctant to pursue the requirements since they believe the program to be in a transitory state. “I quit worrying about it when they changed all the rules for the second time,” said junior Steve Balkcom. “The program is a farce to the extent that they'll give credit for almost every activity, even semi-athletic trips outside of school,” he said. “I'll take the necessary tests and go along with the farce if it comes to their attempting to prevent me from graduating,” Balkcom added.

“I believe that any Davidson student should be able to meet this requirement with a little effort, given the wide variety of activities offered and the willingness to custom design almost any conceivable program,” Stone stated. Currently, 240 students are participating in the athletic program. Stone expects about 200 during the winter term. “In the past, students who didn't complete the requirements were forced to attend summer ‘school’ in P.E. and run stadium steps before their diplomas could be issued,” commented Sterling Martin, Davidson Track coach.

The new proficiency tests are the ultimate certification this year. Class attendance is completely voluntary, except in the sense that students must attend classes in order to gain the necessary skill to pass the tests. “We'll go to any lengths to tailor a program to meet the needs of the individual,” he said. “This term one student is a complete novice in basketball, but he wanted to learn the game. It wasn't in the course offerings, so Jim Laranaga has been working with him individually.”

“We're also interested in giving credit for outside activities, such as the Outing Club,” Stone added. “We already give credit for R.O.T.C. marksmanship.” John M. Bevan, Vice President for Academic Affairs, concurred with Stone's insistence that the requirements would be a prerequisite for graduation. “To my knowledge, no student has graduated without fulfilling these requirements. I intend to monitor and enforce regular progress toward meeting these requirements,” Bevan said. “Certain trends in our society make these P.E. skills contributory toward the overall well-being of the individual,” Bevan said. “There is also the likelihood of increased leisure time coupled with the fact that Americans are moving once in every four years on the average,” Bevan added. “Knowing how to play a few games can be a good way to move into a new community,” Bevan added.

Registration for winter term P.E. courses is now underway and will continue at the gym through Dec. 5.

ON THE CIRCUIT
Steve Baron plays at the Hungry tonight.

Students Play With Symphony
JOHN CASSELS
Asst. Features Editor

Four Davidson students are this year spending a good bit of their spare time playing with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. Seniors Bill Lawing and Tom Giesecke and juniors Paul Yarbrough and Butch Watkins share a great interest in music and are putting their talents to use in the local civic symphony. About 70 players participate in the orchestra's season which runs almost concurrently with the school year. During the last two years, the group has added 14 contract players who also form the nucleus of the chamber orchestra. During the year, the orchestra performs eight concerts.

Lawing is a senior majoring in music, although he attends the Honors College. He began to play the trumpet when he was in fourth grade and studied under Robert Jackson when he came to Davidson. “I wanted to play with the orchestra right from the start, but they had two regular trumpet players and Professor Jackson played the third trumpet,” he said. “I only got to play...when someone couldn't make it or they needed an extra trumpet.” This year, however, Jackson has gone on leave to study in New York and Lawing has taken his place full time. Besides playing third trumpet with the full orchestra, he plays with the Chamber Orchestra. “The Chamber Orchestra receives a grant on condition that it play concerts in all elementary and jr. high schools in Mecklenburg County. In addition, we play concerts at Winthrop and USC, and will be making a tour in March to visit Georgia, South Carolina, and Florida.” Lawing drives to Winston-Salem twice a week for trumpet lessons. There he also plays first trumpet in the North Carolina School of the Arts Orchestra. After graduation, Lawing plans to enter conservatory and continue study in the trumpet.

Giesecke plays second violin in the Charlotte Orchestra. He has played the violin for 10 years and started playing with the orchestra as a sophomore. “At the beginning of my sophomore year I began taking lessons from Mrs. Richey. She was the concert master for the orchestra at that time and she urged me to go down and audition,” he said. Last year, Giesecke was in Marburg, Germany on Junior Year Abroad, where he played with the University Orchestra and a string orchestra. Returning to the Charlotte Symphony this year, Giesecke found “quite an expanded program.” “The contract players form the core of the orchestra and are really good professionals,” he said. Giesecke is a pre-med major, but plans to continue playing the violin even after leaving Davidson.

Yarbrough changed his major this year from economics to music so that he could concentrate on the viola. “I started playing while I was in elementary school; it has been 10 years now.” Paul plans to attend graduate school in music after graduation and hopes to play chamber music in the future.

Watkins plays french horn with the orchestra. “I started out playing the trombone in sixth grade and switched to french horn in ninth grade,” he said. Watkins played with the youth symphony in Lancaster, S.C. for two years before coming to Davidson, where he began playing in the Charlotte Symphony as a freshman. Last year Watkins attended the USC branch in Lancaster but continued to play with the orchestra. Majoring in biology, Watkins hopes to teach and also continue playing with the orchestra in the future. “It's a tremendous experience. Aside from just the challenge of playing their kind of music, you get to hear some really good people play,” he said.

Bevan Seeks Famous Names
By DOUG BROWN
Managing Editor

Men such as William Buckley, Melvin Laird, and Howard K. Smith will be giving speeches at Davidson in coming years if Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan can bring about major changes in the lecture series program. These major changes will ensure that men of national prominence speak at Davidson frequently. In the budget for next year, work on which began this week, Bevan is proposing that an additional $10,000 to $15,000 be set aside to bring at least four nationally known speakers to the campus each year. It is estimated that men of such caliber will cost a minimum of $2,500 each. Bevan is proposing that half of the money to pay these speakers come from student activities fees, and the other half would come from the college. There will be 150 more students attending Davidson next year, and since each student is charged $40 in activities fees, this should produce an additional $6,000 next year alone, said Bevan. “I want the people that make things happen in the arts and politics to come to Davidson,” Bevan said. “These should be the type of people you don't have to ask who they are. We don't have enough headliners,” he added. It may be necessary to have the proposed lecture endowed, as some other lecture series are, to provide the proper financial backing, according to Bevan. Bevan said he realized that funding would be a problem, but he felt it should be a priority item with the administration and the student body. According to Bevan, during the 1950s Davidson was able to attract nationally known figures, but due to cuts in the speaker budget, few well-known figures have spoken to a Davidson audience in recent years. The proposal to bring nationally known men to Davidson must still be approved by the Budget, Buildings and Grounds Committee and the SGA-controlled Campus Tax Committee, which decides on the distribution of the student activities fee.

Senate Considers Car
(Continued From Page 1)

on the campus to be used for such a purpose, and that up until this point the transportation had been almost entirely provided by the few black students on campus owning cars. If the BSC is allowed to use the car, Terry does not “envision this as a dating car.” Rather, he sees it as a “means of transportation for large numbers” of black students in an “official college function” capacity. Terry also spoke of the rigid requirements by insurance companies on the operation of such a vehicle, with drivers first having to be approved by the companies and their personal driving records examined. No mention was made as to who would be in charge of the car or who would be responsible for its maintenance.