Pass-Fail Does More Harm Than Good

AN ANALYSIS By RICHARD ROMEYN Contributing Editor

Since its inception as part of the Blue Sky Curriculum four years ago, almost 1000 students have taken courses pass-fail at Davidson. But many students have found that pass-fail on their transcript does more harm than good when they apply for graduate school. There is no evidence that use of the pass-fail option can cause a person to be rejected at a graduate or professional school; however, these schools do not generally look upon a course taken pass-fail with favor.

Although law and medical school deans generally feel that a limited use of the pass-fail option is acceptable, all those questioned agreed that it does make the student's application harder to evaluate. “Our reaction depends upon how many pass-fails there are,” said University of Michigan Law School Dean Waterson. “It is just so much easier to look at grades, and since pass-fail is harder to evaluate, the applicant may be hurt a little,” he said. “Extensive use of pass-fail makes it very difficult to judge a person,” said Archie Johnson, assistant dean of Bowman Gray Medical School, “and even limited use of pass-fail may sometimes put the applicant at a slight disadvantage.”

A stronger opinion was voiced by Suydan Osterholt of Duke University Medical School who remarked that pass-fail grades make him nervous. “When we get pass-fail grades we watch out,” he said. Pre-med advisor James Fredericksen felt a student with several pass-fail courses could be in serious trouble. “Such a student,” said Johnson, “has shown extremely poor judgment.”

Most professional school deans agreed, however, that the best place for pass-fail is in the upper-level courses where a student likes to take a stab but is worried about his grade point average (GPA). The basic objection professional schools seem to have to pass-fail is that courses taken under that option are troublesome to define. Those professional deans see the grade as something they can count on to evaluate the student, even though they readily admit that a grade may not always reflect a student's abilities accurately. “We admit that grades don't always correlate with a doctor's ability in practice,” said Osterholt, “but we have to have some kind of criterion for evaluation.”

Since many top law schools and medical schools are overwhelmed by applications, they need a form of evaluation which is readily identifiable. The volume necessitates a cut-off point; consequently, those transcripts with many pass-fails are rejected outright. “Five or six years ago it would not have been such a problem,” said law advisor Davin William Hight, “but today there is an overwhelming pressure on graduate schools for grades. Take a few but be darned careful how many. If I were a pre-law student applying to law school, I would offer them all letters,” he said. Fredericksen concurred. “A good grade is a student's best recommendation,” he said.

If a transcript includes too many pass-fail grades, the graduate schools place greater emphasis on standardized entrance examinations and upon recommendations. There is no evidence that having a “pass” on record can hurt a student’s GPA. Davidson does not include the pass when computing a student’s average, and most professional schools do not attach any numerical value to it. Many law and med schools list the passes separately from letter grades. The Law School Data Assembly Service (LSDAS) which summarizes applicant transcripts for law schools, also lists the passes separately and does not figure them into the GPA. “A pass will in no way hurt a student's GPA,” said a spokesman for LSDAS. However, a course failed under the pass-fail system is not differentiated from one failed under a graded system. Davidson’s policy has been that a grade of C or higher must be obtained in order for a student to pass.

(See PASS-FAIL, page 12)

December 1, 1972

Black Students Receive Faculty Report; Peck Calls It “Vague and Noncommittal”

By BOB HOWELL Asst. Managing Editor

The Black Student Coalition (BSC) responded this week to a report of the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) compiled in answer to the coalition’s requests concerning the experience of black students at Davidson. The FEC’s report was a review of “the college's efforts to alleviate (black students’) special problems, including accomplishments to date, actions already under way aimed at further improvement.”

Students Able To Take Exams Without Previous Scheduling

By HUGH HENNIS Staff Writer

Since the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) has eliminated advanced scheduling of exams, students next week will be able to take any test during any exam period. Previously students had to indicate a specific time when they would take their exam. Now students will be able to walk into the examination room during any of the exam periods and pick up any of their exams. Under the new rules, the student will...Go to the student store and purchase an exam envelope containing yellow and blue information cards. Both of these cards must be filled out and given to each individual instructor before 5 p.m., Dec. 1. When the student is ready to take the exam either at the 8:40 a.m. morning session or the 1:40 p.m. afternoon session, he should report to Chamber’s Banquet Hall and pick up his particular exam containing the blue card. The yellow card will be retained by the examination staff. The student will then be able to take the exam anywhere in the Chambers building. The exams must be completed by 12:15 p.m. for the morning session and by 5:15 p.m. for the evening session. After the honor pledge has been signed, the yellow card will be given as a receipt to the student. The exams are taken under the honor system, and any violations should be reported to the Honor Court. “The giving of any information either by looking on another student’s paper or saying afterwards that the exam was hard, are the two extremes of what constitutes a violation,” according to Honor Court Chairman Dick Clay. “The best thing to do is not say anything about the exam,” Clay said. As in the past, not all professors follow self-examinations, so it is the responsibility of the student to find out all pertinent details from his instructor, according to Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. The new guidelines for self-scheduled exams were proposed by the student Senate and passed by the EPC this fall.

It was given to the BSC two weeks ago but not released by the coalition until they had had the opportunity to thoroughly discuss it among themselves. The response returned to the FEC Tuesday said the BSC found that report “for the most part, vague and noncommittal. We noticed several good ideas and encourage the Administration to be more specific as to how these programs will be put into action.” Following are excerpts from the BSC's original proposals, answers from the FEC’s report, and this week’s response of the coalition or a statement by BSC President Steve Peck.

CURRICULUM -- BSC: Incorporation of material relative to the Black Experience in appropriate departments and an African Studies Program within two years. FEC: Reports from department chairmen indicate that a great deal of such material has been incorporated into present course offerings. Extended Studies is an opportunity for student-initiated study in depth. A Transcultural Studies Program is in the planning stages; the Black Experience will be a major part. BSC: The African Studies Program should be instituted as a separate program, as is the South Asian Studies Program.

LIBRARY -- BSC: A more complete collection of books and materials relating to the Black Experience. FEC: We have checked lists of selected titles in this area, found that the library holds some 500 volumes and seven journals listed (not to mention books within disciplines which treat in specialized context aspects of the Black Experience), and are presently scanning lists for a selection of titles to be added. Peck: This is one area in which we thought they've made a very good start. Some important things have been done, but there could be more.

ADMINISTRATION -- BSC: Appointment within the coming year of at least two blacks in positions in direct contact with students, faculty, and administration. FEC: Larry Barr has been appointed to the Admissions staff, the college is committed to hiring a black staff person in the Union for next fall, and a concerted effort will be made to fill the next vacancy in the Athletic department with a black person. Peck: We really congratulate the school on Barr’s appointment. He’s worked with us a great deal.

EXCHANGE -- BSC: There is needed an exchange program with black colleges which presently have exchange programs with predominantly white Northern colleges. FEC: A preliminary proposal for an exchange with Morehouse College has been drawn up and submitted to them, a visit to Howard University has been arranged, and contact with Fisk University is planned. Other possibilities are an exchange with Bennet College and study in multi-racial situations in Europe, Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Peck: We think that the ideas connected with the exchange programs are good, but nothing definite has been established.

ENROLLMENT -- BSC: An increase in black student enrollment to at least 150 within two years, including black women comprising at least 10 percent of the coed enrollment. FEC: We will strive to enroll as many black students as possible, as soon as possible, so that when the reaches (See BLACK, page 12.)

Publication Ceases
With this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication for the Fall Term. Publication will resume after the Christmas holidays on Friday, Jan. 12. The editors and staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN wish everyone a very merry Christmas.