Staff Photos
by

Bill Barnes.

MELLON

ECU Takes 'Gil Thorpe' Win

By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

In spite of all the pre-tournament hoopla, the Southern Conference Tournament belonged to neither Davidson nor Furman, but rather to East Carolina.

The Tournament is the proving ground for SC teams, and the Pirates burst out of their fourth place regular season rating to undisputed Conference champ by upsetting both the Wildcats in the semifinals, and the Paladins in the finals.

The Tournament victory wins the Pirates the privilege of representing the Southern Conference in the NCAA regional tourney, and the somewhat less palatable honor of tackling Villanova in that game.

Prior to the semi-finals of the tournament, most people involved felt that the finals would be a rematch of the Furman-Davidson clash held several weeks before in Greenville’s Memorial Auditorium.

But East Carolina obviously had come to the tournament with the intention of winning, and played much better, both as a team and individually, than they had in the regular season.

The Pirates offered little promise of being a world-shaker in their opening round game with The Citadel.

The Bulldogs held a slim margin at the half, but ECU came back to win in the last 10 minutes of the game.

The only sign of things to come in the opening round was the unconvincing play of the Wildcats against Appalachian State, the Conference's newest team.

The ‘Cats were never able to get a commanding lead in the game, but finally outran the Apps 87-77.

The ECU team seemed to have been prepared for the tournament both physically and mentally. All of the players, notably Jim Fairley and Al Faber, performed better than they had during the season, indeed better than anyone had thought possible prior to the tourney.

In the Davidson game, the Pirates took in 20 more rebounds than the regular season champs, and improved their shooting percentage from 30 percent in the first half to near 70 percent for the game.

ECU's win over Furman in the finals was even more dramatic. It seemed like something out of Gil Thorpe.

The Paladins led by two points with 10 seconds remaining in the game when Fairley hit a 15-foot jumper to put the match into overtime.

Fairley had been the player that had almost single-handedly kept ECU in the game with the Wildcats, and was awarded the tourney MVP trophy for his performance.

In overtime it boiled down again to a last-second shot. Russ Hunt was at the line for Furman with a chance to ice the game. The teams were tied and Hunt had a one-and-one shot with eight seconds remaining.

Hunt hit the first, giving the Paladins a one-point lead, but missed the second. Faber took the rebound and drove upcourt. He fired from centercourt and rimmed the basket.

Teammate Nicky White was standing beneath the goal, and the rebound fell into his hands. He laid it in as the buzzer sounded, winning the game for the Pirates.

East Carolina played the unexpected role of giant-killer in the tournament, playing better than any of the other teams, and better than they had during the season. It was like something out of Gil Thorpe.

The Davidsonian

March 10, 1972

Page Seven