Page Two 1971 The Davidsonian January 7. Spencer Responds To Petition By Freshmen Hall Counselors By THOM NICOLL Spencer said that unless the plan is disapproved by one of these groups, it should go before the trustees in the spring.

Responding to a petition of Freshman counselor Ralph Peeples protested the administration’s response to the matter, stating, “I don’t think that the approach is adequate. If you want to play a game, you can go and ask any hall counselor and he can rattle off a list of names of freshmen who would like to transfer at the end of the year.”

However, whether any freshmen leave or not, the problem still exists. There is dissatisfaction, and the hall counselors are the most qualified to say so.

“This dissatisfaction manifests itself in a lot of ways. One way is to drop out of campus life altogether, which may be what is happening with the social system.” Another way is that freshmen will not encourage their high school friends to apply to Davidson, which hurts admissions and causes an economic problem. Also, it may lead to freshmen initiating transfer proceedings at the end of the year.”

Peeples said that the number of freshmen who have left is not the point. “The problem can’t be solved by simply denying that it exists.”

By BILL GIDUZ Staff Writer Carolina governor Terry Sanford, who is now president of Duke.

Student Body President Dan Clodfelter has been awarded one of this year’s 32 nationwide Rhodes Scholarships.

The scholarship entitles the recipient to two years of study at Oxford University in England, including tuition, fees, and about $1800 “maintenance” money for room, board, and living expenses.

“Jimmy Trussell pushed me to it last winter; he’s at Oxford now on a Marshall scholarship, but I didn’t really start thinking about it seriously until last spring,” said Clodfelter. Clodfelter went on to explain that the actual application process didn’t begin until he filled in a brief preliminary application this October.

From there, he and the other eight applicants from North Carolina went through state interviews in mid-December. The state committee consisted of former Rhodes scholars and was chaired by former North Carolina governor Terry Sanford, who is now president of Duke.

Only two students from each state go on to district and final competition, and this year both Rhodes Scholarships were from Davidson.

Clodfelter and Lawrence Wilkinson went to Atlanta later that same week along with 10 other semi-finalists from the other five states in the southeastern district. Only four of these twelve are annually given the award and Clodfelter was one of those chosen to receive it.

In talking about the state and district interviews, Clodfelter likened them to the North Carolina Fellows interviews, but with more experienced interviewers. The interviews mixed abstract questions with specific questions requiring pure intellectual knowledge.

“They weren’t trying to purposely trip me up, but a guy would say, ‘I see you’ve studied Sanskrit and you’re interested in philosophy. Would you relate Buddhist philosophy to such-and-such a philosopher?’ and I would say, ‘I can’t do that, I’m sorry.’ Most of the interview was saying ‘I don’t know.’”

When asked if the 1½ hour interviews were high-pressured, he replied, “It was the sort of pressure just to justify yourself; they weren’t trying to see where your psychological breaking point was or anything. I was surprised, you get all these scary notions about what it’s supposed to be like, but it was

Davidsonian Staff Associate Editors: BILL GIDUZ, MARGARET COSTEN, BILL MASTERTON, RUSTY RUEFF, HOWARD RAMAGLI, LEX VEAZEY Managing Editors: GRAY WILSON, RICHARD WILSON News Editor: DAVID HANIG Sports Editor: JOE EARLE Photography Editor: BILL BARNES Assistant Managing Editors: DOUGBROWN ROBERT TOUCHTON ALEC HOON
Copy Editors: JAMES HANN, CHARLIE TERRELL, HOWARD BOYD
Cartoonists: TERRY HIRST, STEVE BALCUM
Circulation Managers: STEVE SHEPHERD, GREG MITCHELL
Photographers: TOM CAMPBELL, FRANK ERWIN, JOE RODRIGUEZ

not like that at all.” The candidates were notified at the conclusion of the last of the interviews of their selection or rejection, a process which, according to Clodfelter, caused more than a little anxiety. Clodfelter was one of the four who survived the screening process, however, and he expressed these thoughts on his selection. “This gives me a chance to sit back and do some serious academic work which I haven't done in a long time, some serious concentrated work, and there won't be any involvements on off-campus activities to distract me. It’s a good break in the flow of things.”

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Contributors this week: Tom Bruce, Jace Gaffney, Bill Giduz, Bob Howell, Thom Nicoll, Mike Tanner, M. Finley Taylor.

Rhodes, the scholarship originator, designated that it be given to scholars with truthfulness, courage, kindness, sympathy for and protection of the weak, exhibition of moral force of character, and success in sports. By his selection, Clodfelter became the 17th Davidson student to receive the high honor since it was originated at the beginning of the century. This ranks Davidson in the top 15 American colleges and universities in this respect. Davidson's President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. noted Clodfelter’s accomplishment by saying, “Danny's achievement is a great honor to him and Davidson. I am keenly pleased about this and I know that all of us share a genuine pride and satisfaction in his selection.”

Candidates (Continued From Page 1)
He suggested creative writing, a humor column, and improved coverage of community news and the national perspective. Gray's second aim is to improve the quality of news gathering of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Rich Wilson has been Assistant Managing Editor, and is now Managing Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. He edited last summer's edition of the paper. He writes professionally for The Charlotte News and received the D. Grier Martin Award for best freshman reporter. As to his platform, Rich said, “It's basically a campaign against misinformation and it is this misinformation that breeds the mistrust which manifests itself in the lack of understanding between the various constituencies of the college.” To aid in the accurate reporting of the news, Rich hopes to organize a series of investigative teams composed of students interested in particular topics. Other improvements he would like to make include increased size and quality of the sports pages, information on how other colleges are handling major campus issues, and the addition of a guest column as well as columns on the draft, cultural activities at nearby colleges, and satirical columns. Rich added, “I feel that we can now report enough material so that, with additional advertising, we could expand to 10 or 12 pages weekly.”

Contending in the upcoming elections for the office of President of the Social Council are junior Jim Campbell and sophomore Miles Ward. Campbell, who is currently in his second year as Fraternity Social Chairman at the Pika House, has served on the social council since his freshman year. He has also worked closely in the past with the National Entertainment Conference (NEC), an organization set up to aid student union staffs in planning and coordinating their activities. Campbell feels that the Social Council will be forced to work much more closely with all aspects of the Union Social Function (the coffee house committee, the film committee, the Hungary committee, the speaker committee) as well as with the eating clubs in an attempt to work around the problem of union dislocation and reach the student body. “What we want is a united program to present to the student body, on a regular basis, a series of activities and most important, to make sure that students not only know what's happening, but also when and where,” he said.

Miles Ward, who has served for one year on the senate, also feels that the destruction of the present union facilities could seriously handicap the Social Council next year if steps are not taken. “We've got to plan our activities so that they fall evenly throughout the year and also to try to concentrate them more on the weekends, for if we can do this, I feel that more and more people will begin to stay on campus and support what we're doing,” Ward said.