The Davidsonian

January 28, 1972

Page Seven

Cagers Upset Princeton Powerhouse

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

The giant-killer has turned into a giant.

Twice within the past week, the Wildcats toppled teams which were ranked in the top twenty, and they have established
themselves as a definite contender for national recognition.

The greatest triumph of the season occurred Wednesday night at the Charlotte Coliseum, as the ‘Cats clawed seventeenth-ranked Princeton 81-74.

With a crowd of 4300 screaming fans applauding every achievement with the volume of a group twice that size, the
‘Cats turned in a superb effort at both ends of the court.

The first half saw the ‘Cats bolt out of the starting gate and jump to an 11-4 lead. John Falconi
was matched against Princeton's ace guard Brian Taylor, and he prevented Taylor from dominating the Tiger offense.

In fact, Taylor went several four-minute stretches without a bucket and the scoring load shifted to Ted Manakas, a deadly
outside shot, and 6'10" Andy Rimol, whose mobility kept the Wildcat big men running all night.

The floor play of Mike Sorrentino enabled the underdog ‘Cats to pull within one at 38-37 as the half ended.
Thirteen of sixteen free throws kept the ‘Cats close.

The second half saw the Tigers race to a 36-47 advantage. The ‘Cats were troubled by poor offensive patterns which
caused them to lose momentum.

Led by hustling from Eric Firkin, T. J. Pecorak, and Falconi, the ‘Cats resorted to a patient offense and turned
to work inside for close shots.

The simple pattern of the shuffle cut allowed Falconi and Pecorak to roll the lane for easy layups. The passing
of Sorrentino and Pecorak was crisp and the complexion of the game changed completely.

Excellent defense prohibited Rimol from roaming the lane and he was held to four points in the half. The overall
team defense of the ‘Cats was at its best as T. J. Pecorak hawked Taylor and Sorrentino contained Manakas.

Sorrentino and Pecorak hit pressure free throws in the final minute, and the upset belonged to the jubilant ‘Cats.

Falconi paced the Wildcat scoring with 23 and Sorrentino, who played all but two minutes of the game, added 17
in his best effort in recent games.

T. J. Pecorak came off the bench to tally 12, and this offset a sub-par shooting night by Joe Sutter,
who tossed in 9. Taylor fired in 23 for the Tigers, followed by Manakas' 15 and Rimol's 14.

Last Saturday, the Wildcats gained revenge for an earlier defeat by trouncing West Virginia 101-89.

Team Defense Keys

By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

Since losing their first regular season game to an exceptionally fine Clemson team, Davidson’s Wildkittens have come on to win
nine games in a row over their opponents, some by margins exceeding thirty points.

The reasons for this envious achievement, according to freshman coach Duncan Postma, are many.

“If I say one thing, the team defense has been the greatest improvement,” says Postma.

However, it's been Joe Duncan who has improved the most, coming on to ‘key the offense” according to Postma.

In Wednesday night's game, though, Duncan suffered an ankle injury in warm-up and was unable to play.

“Jim Lowry has also come around to his own,” continued Postma, in reference to the team’s exceptional ball-handling guard.

In addition, the ‘Kittens have a formidable scoring combination in 6-9 center Sheldon Parker, and forwards Greg Dunn and Larry
Horowitz.

Dunn, the team’s leading scorer so far this year averaging 22.8 points per game, feels confident about the team’s play.

“Even if we had no offense or defense, we could still win the majority of our games,” he said.

Despite the high praise, the Freshmen did find Saturday night's game against Lees McRae rough going, having to come back
from a six-point halftime deficit before winning 78 to 64.

With three of their men in foul trouble, the ‘Kittens won because of their second half defense. “The zone press
really worked,” stated Postma.

Indeed the team used it well in Wednesday night's victory over Hand Hills College, as second leading scorer Horowitz dumped
in 29 points and Dunn contributed 23 to the 112- final tally.

The ‘Kittens face a rematch with Furman, two games with the University of South Carolina, and a very important encounter
with Duke's Freshman squad, “probably one of the best freshman teams in the country,” according to Postma.

(Staff photo by Barnes)
HEY, BIG BROTHER
T. J. Pecorak watches John Pecorak go for two against Princeton.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine

OPEN KITCHEN

1318 W. Morehead
PIZZA

GUS’S ORIGINAL

FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

STEVE BARON - “SESSIONS”

with JEF LOWELL
Limited Edition Stereo Album $4.98 plus 50c postage and packaging.

Available From:
OTHERWAY RECORDS
P. O. Box 877
Ansonia Station
N. Y., N. Y. 10023

Carnegie As ‘Cat Fund Head

ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Field Jackets — P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans

170 N. Main
Mooresville, N. C.

Whatever you want, we've got
