Page Ten

Monday, Feb. 14
3:00 Dramatic Reading: "Catonsville Nine" - Green Room

Tuesday, Feb. 15
All day - Opportunities
8:00 Dramatic Reading: "Catonsville Nine" - Green Room

Wednesday, Feb. 16
10:00 a.m. Lecture: Ted Kraus “What Ever Happened to Broadway” - Morrison Room
3:00 p.m. Snyder Hackard Mig. Co. - Union Lobby
9:00 a.m. Aetna Life & Casualty Co. - Y Office
10:00 a.m. Mutual of New York - Morrison Room
Questions? Dr. Spencer all day - Peat, Marwick & Mitchell, Accountants - Love Auditorium

Thursday, Feb. 17
All day - Wachovia Bank & Trust - Green Room
9:30 a.m. U.S. Government Employment - Green Room
9:30 a.m. Mars Chain Co. - Green Room

Friday, Feb. 18
10:00 a.m. NASA speaker Jim Prim, Project Engineer for Skylab - Morrison Room
8:00 p.m. Artist's Series: Ballet N.C. School of the Arts - Love Auditorium

Players Present ‘Catonsville Nine’
By DOUG BROWN
Managing Editor

“The Trial of the Catonsville Nine” will be presented at the old Phi Gam House on Monday and Tuesday, February
14 and 15 at 8 p.m. The play depicts the trial of nine Catholic protestors, who, under the leadership of
Philip and Daniel Berrigan, burned over 300 draft files at Catonsville, Maryland, on May 17, 1968.

Senior Howard Ramagli, technical director of “The Trial of The Catonsville Nine” said, “This play is more real than most
because the people depicted are presently in jail for what they believe in. The cast has some stake in these
beliefs. The Berrigan brothers show that there is a higher law which should direct human behavior and not just man-made
laws. This play is significant because it deals with problems that people face who don't agree with the government.”

Although some of the cast have memorized their lines, most will be reading their parts from their scripts. The reading
stands will be noticeable, and no attempt will be made to make the performances appear extremely professional. Instead, the actors
will work at getting the audience to develop a feel for what Daniel Berrigan and the people at Catonsville are
trying to say.

Associate Professor of English Anthony S. Abbott decided to do “The Trial of the Catonsville Nine” this fall. However, the
movement to put this play on received an added impetus when Sister McAlister, one of those connected with the Berrigan
brothers, spoke on campus in late fall. The performances will be dedicated to her. Abbott is the director of “The
Trial of the Catonsville Nine.” Assistant Professor of Political Science William E. Jackson will portray Daniel Berrigan. Philip Berrigan will
be played by Assistant Professor of Physics Robert J. Manning. A number of other faculty members and students will also
be in the play. The charge for admission will be $1.00. No one will be seated after the performance begins,
as a full house is expected each night.

ROTC Opens Option For Lottery Losers
By DAVID ARANT
Staff Writer

Freshmen who received low numbers in last week's draft lottery and are not enrolled in the ROTC program can still
get in the program. "Freshmen who have not signed up can sign up for the spring term,” said Thomas Dixon,
assistant professor of Military Science. These students would have to take the ROTC class and drill this spring and would
finish the freshman course in the fall and winter terms of the sophomore year. Since sophomore ROTC requires only two
terms, a student would have to take two courses simultaneously only in the winter term.

Also, those freshmen who drew high numbers in the recent draft lottery and wish to drop the ROTC program are
encouraged to finish the present term. Dixon said, “If a person drops ROTC during the term, he is given a
failure.” On the other hand, a student who finishes out the term will be given an incomplete.Old Phi Gam House
will hold 75 per performance.

Martin, Beatty Appear Here In Political Workshop Debate

JOHN CASSELS
Staff Writer

The two leading candidates for the Ninth Congressional District seat confronted each other on the Davidson campus Tuesday afternoon. Although
both candidates, Republican County Commissioner and Davidson Professor Jim Martin and Democrat State Legislator Jim Beatty, sought to quell the
rumor that this was not their first "confrontation," they did admit that it was their first public appearance together since
announcing their respective candidacies.

The appearance of the candidates was the finale to a political workshop held on Monday and Tuesday. Short speeches and
question-and-answer periods afterwards were given at 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. each day.

Jim Beatty, six years in the State legislature, said there was a wide range of reasons for his being in
the race. "When I look at my own background; when I look at my own experience; I know I am
qualified to represent this congressional district." He said he felt that people's concern for economic stability would provide one of
the issues for the campaign.

Later Beatty introduced Pat Butler, president of the Mecklenburg County Young Democrats Club, who talked about campaigning. He said the
primary objective in the campaign was to project the candidate's message to the public, and in doing this a campaign
manager is limited by his resources of money, manpower, time, and facilities.

Jim Martin opened by saying, "I... I don’t plan to get into a footrace with Jim." Beatty is a former
international track star. Martin outlined the theme of his campaign which included strengthening local government, developing a practical, sensible approach
to cleaning up the environment, and carrying on retiring Representative Charles Jonas’ practice of making the congressman available to the
constituents.

Martin introduced his campaign chairman, Robert Bradshaw, who said that he had accepted his position because he felt that in
all his dealings with Commissioner Martin, Martin had never made a decision out of political expediency.

North Vietnam, in addition to other questions from the audience.

Ralph Huitt, former Assistant Secretary of HEW for legislation, spoke informally Monday morning on "Elections '72." Emphasis was on the
meaning of advanced technology to campaigns and that candidates should not be forced to take stands on vital issues in
the heat of a campaign. Huitt expressed faith in the democratic process and asserted, "The system is responsive to what
it conceives to be a consensus."

Members of the women’s caucus of Mecklenburg County, Republican Mrs. H. A. Bissell and Democrat Mrs. Louise Brennan, spoke on
the increasing role of women within the party and in campaigns, Monday afternoon.

County party chairmen, Henry Wilmer, Republican, and A. Myles Haines, Democrat, spoke on the responsibilities of chairmen in the campaigns.
They both emphasized party structure and the opportunity for any interested party member to attain leadership positions.

William Culp, Sr. of the county board of elections then talked about registration and election day.

Salads Only For Your Mitchell Mack

Our 60th Year

"After Church" Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
6 Miles North

Campus Clothes

SUITS by Botany 500
SPORTCOATS by Hunter Haig
SHIRTS by Sero
SPORT SHIRTS by Van Heusen
PANTS by Farah and Haggar
JEANS by Hicks and Farah
KNIT SHIRTS by Munsingwear
SKINNY RIBS by Jantzen
BIG BELTS by Daubury
BOOTS by Dingho
SHOES by Bostonian

Desserts Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room
Class of '42
Mooresville
