Page Ten - March 10, 1972 - The Davidsonian

Coming Events:

Friday, March 10
8 p.m. Howard Hanger Trio, Morrison Room

Saturday, March 11
8 p.m. Howard Hanger Trio, Morrison Room

Sunday, March 12
7:30 p.m. Meeting of Students to work for Muskie, Green Room

Monday, March 13
7:30 p.m. Peace Coalition Meeting, Green Room

Tuesday, March 14
10 a.m. Any Questions: Dr. Spencer, Morrison Room
10 a.m. Reynolds Lecturer: George Miller for coffee and chat, Union Lobby
8 p.m. Reynolds Lecturer: George Miller: “Beyond Freedom and Control,” Hodson Hall
10 p.m. Self Selection for Patterson Court, Chambers Banquet Hall

Wednesday, March 15
All day Peace Corps, Vista, Union Lobby
All day First National Bank, Green Room
Noon Lunch Film: “The Heritage of Slavery,” Morrison Room
8 p.m. Fine Film "M," Love Auditorium
8 p.m. George Miller: “The Evolution of Language,” Hodson Hall

Thursday, March 16
All day Peace Corps, Vista, Union Lobby
Noon Lunch Film: “The Heritage of Slavery,” Morrison Room
7:15 p.m. Forum: Second World Depression, Green Room
8 p.m. Hungry “d “The Braid,” Union Bar

Friday, March 17
All day U.S. Navy Officer Information, Green Room A&B
All day Peace Corps, Vista, Union Lobby
8 p.m. Hungry “d “The Braid,” Union Bar
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital: Wilmer Wels, D.C. Presbyterian Church

Saturday, March 18
8 p.m. “The Fantastiks,” Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Hungry “d “The Braid,” Union Bar

VISTA: Volunteers
By BILL ELLETT, Copy Editor

Volunteers In Service To America (VISTA) and the Peace Corps will be looking for volunteers at Davidson next week. Laura Larson, who has worked with VISTA in Missouri, and Lib Haubenreiser, who spent two years in Liberia with the Peace Corps, will be in the Union lobby Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. with literature about the organizations. Interested students may fill out applications but any curious person may get the literature. Haubenreiser said that though applications are accepted from anyone over 18, graduating seniors are preferred since there is such a big change in environment between the Ivory Tower and the areas where volunteers work. Both programs look more toward the experiences of an applicant.

Trustees Delegate Power
By ALAN FORD, Staff Writer

The Trustee Governance Committee at its last meeting February 10, allocated governance control over certain aspects of Davidson College management to the constituency on campus that has the primary responsibility for that aspect. The committee agreed that the administration should have primary control over the following: religious policy, capital expenditures and investments, development and public relations, management of auxiliary enterprises, public plant, student charges, operating budget, athletics, recruitment of applicants, staff and faculty professional matters, and student health services. The Faculty should assume primary control over curriculum, library, honorary degrees, co-curricular activities, physical education and intramurals, and policy of admissions and selection of applicants. The students should control the social life of students, dorm life, food service, student government and organizations, and student conduct. The committee agreed that the governance role for many of the listed cases should be shared extensively with the other groups.

Sanford Seeks Presidency Based On Student Support
By PHIL BISHOP, Staff Writer

Duke University’s Terry Sanford this week announced for the Presidency on the strength of his student support and on Edmund Muskie's relatively weak showing in the New Hampshire primary. Sanford said Wednesday in Durham, “the confidence and enthusiasm of the students who started the petition drive” was the key factor in his decision. North Carolina students collected 25,000 signatures in less than a month to put Sanford’s name on the state primary ballot. “These young people are seeking our political system to be responsive to their aspirations. As a state and as a nation, we cannot afford again to frustrate our youth,” Sanford said. Senator Muskie “has not caught the imagination of the people in a degree that can carry him to success in the fall elections,” remarked the former governor, “and if he falters,The delegates will most likely choose a fresh face.” Sanford will remain in his position at Duke during the campaign. He said he hoped to demonstrate an alternative method of campaigning free from heavy media advertising. Sanford plugged his candidacy as an opportunity for the South to offer real solutions to the nation’s problems. “We are now mainstream America, and we know the unfulfilled promises of this nation. We cannot disqualify ourselves from national politics.”

Sanford reiterated his opposition to the Vietnam war, saying, “our unwarranted military attacks in Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia is an obstinate addiction to a discredited policy.” Sanford also added he would welcome the repatriation of fugitives from this country’s draft laws, but he opposed the legalization of marijuana.

Davidson’s Danny Clodfelter, who was singled out by Sanford as a key leader of the petition movement, acknowledged the difficulty of entering Sanford in other primaries. “There has been some talk of Oregon, but Alabama may be the best chance to get primary delegates,” said Clodfelter. A good showing by Sanford in North Carolina and Alabama could significantly reduce the strength of George Wallace at the Democratic Convention in August. Sanford said he would need at least 100 delegates to create a presence at the Miami convention. Clodfelter said Sanford must have delegates from four states to be nominated at the convention, but he plans on support in South Carolina, Virginia, and Texas as well as primary delegates from North Carolina and Alabama.

Bent Coins Cause Jammed Machines
By BRUCE MALOY
Staff Writer

If you’ve lost any money in the Union vending machines lately, go see manager Ron Scott. He has a drawer full of bent and mutilated American coins as well as British, French, Canadian, Australian, and Luxembourgian coins which might belong to you. As Scott explained, “All of these coins have caused our machines to jam in the past three weeks.” Assistant manager Keith Carson pointed out, “These machines aren't human. They’re made to take only American coins in reasonable condition. When anything else is put in they don’t know what to do with it.” Carson added, “Once a machine is jammed, ten to 100 people could lose their money before we are notified.”

“Remember,” added Scott, “we have never refused a refund to anyone who came and asked for it in person.” When asked why he used machines at all since they are so abused and maligned, Scott replied, “We have contractual obligations to provide some sort of food service after the cafeteria is closed and as strange as it may seem some people buy drinks and sandwiches from the machines even when the snack bar is open.”

In response to questions about the quality of the food, Scott stated that the best available packaged foods are being used and that items such as sandwiches and hamburgers come right off the line at the college cafeteria. These problems are all rather academic, however, since only a few vending machines will be used next year. Almost all of the machines will be replaced by the snack bar on Patterson Court which will be open from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. or midnight.

“STUDENTS! DON’T DROP OUT... Tune in! Join the Bowles for Governor Campaign. For information call collect: Youth Director, Raleigh (919) 834-8402.”

Carl Freeman, GALLEY FISH CAMP
Fresh Fish-Steaks
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson
OPEN 9-8

The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY

Australia Needs Teachers Now!
Sick of Hassling Smog, Unemployment?
Growing Needs, All Subject Areas
For Full Information Send $1 to:
Intl. Teachers Placement Bureau,
P. O. Box 19007, Sacramento, Calif. 95819.