Page Six January 21, 1972

The Davidsonian

Money Brings WDAV To Grey House

By BILL GIDUZ
Staff Writer

After four and a half months of repairs and reorganization, campus radio station WDAV (640 AM) is back on the
air. The station began operations in April 1970, and operated with increasing difficulty until the first few days of this
school year. At that time, the quality of the station’s inadequate equipment had degenerated so much that it was necessary
to terminate broadcasting until repairs could be made.

Station manager Scott Keeter told about the state of the station at the beginning of this year. “Our engineer Skip
Smoak had done an excellent job of wiring in that he had matched things that were never intended to be
matched. But after a while things caught up with us and our studio facilities got to the point where we
had a microphone and one turntable working but that was it.” Also, the station’s signal, which reached only the dorms
and the president’s house, was of a very poor quality due to rewiring in some of the dorms over the
summer break.

Keeter and other members of the staff appealed to the Student Senate and administration for funds after the station was
shut down, and their request for $4,000 was met. The money was used for a new turntable, a $2,300 control
board, and to pay professional engineers who set up all the new equipment during Christmas break. Keeter commented, “Now we
have an A-1 operation in terms of our signal. We've also added Grey House to our transmitting setup.” The new
control board will permit a greater degree of ver-

Arabs Thrown Into Desert By Zionist Military Power

By STEVE CROSS
Staff Writer

“The Middle Eastern crisis is a very complicated problem,” said Hatem I. Hussaini. “From my point of view it has
been greatly distorted.” Hussaini is a Palestinian Arab who spoke informally in the Morrison Room Monday at 8:00 p.m. Hussaini,
who works for the Arab Information Center in Washington, D.C., said that many people support Israel today out of sympathy
for the persecution of Jews in the past, but he did not agree with the Zionist position of support for
Israel. The Jews do not need a state of their own simply because they were persecuted, Hussaini said. The land
they settled on had been previously occupied by Moslem and Christian Arabs for centuries.

Hussaini said that the new Israeli state was forced upon the Palestinians “by British occupation and later by Zionist military
power.” There are now 1.5 million Palestinian refugees in surrounding countries. The Arab professor said that when he himself visited
the Middle East in 1969 he was not permitted into Jerusalem, the city of his birth, because exiled Palestinians are
not permitted to return unless they

Duke Grant Aids College

Davidson College has received a $230,000 grant from the Duke Endowment for personnel development, library operations, and physical facilities for
student dining and social activities, all in the 1972-73 academic year.

The largest portion of the funds, $135,000, will be used for “compensation (salaries and fringe benefits); cost of living adjustments;
special merit adjustments where deemed necessary; faculty and staff enrichment, including grants for travel and research; special training of staff
personnel.” Also, $65,000 will go to library operations in a time when book prices have increased up to 10 percent
and the college’s new curriculum has required additional reading and research materials. A third portion, $30,000, will assist the college
in remodeling present structures on campus into facilities for College Union activities. The present Union building will be razed in
June 1972 since the new E. H. Little Library will be built on the site.

Studies are now being conducted by Davidson to determine where to place Union functions during construction of the library and
in future years. It has already been determined that Union dining operations will be divided among three houses on Patterson
Court no longer occupied by social fraternities.

“For the continuing support of the years,” said President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. “Without this support, the quality of our
programs, facilities and personnel could not be what it is today.”

Since 1925 the Duke Endowment has provided financial assistance to Davidson, and to Duke, Furman and Johnson C. Smith universities.
It also supports non-profit hospitals and child-caring institutions in North and South Carolina, as well as retired ministers and rural
churches in the N.C. Conference and Western N.C. Conference of the United Methodist Church.of their immediate family in Israeli-occupied territory.
He rejected the religious idea that God “promised” Palestine to the Jews as “nonsense,” and added that “there is no
relation between ancient Hebrews and modern Jews.” He said that present-day Jews are descendants of converted Romans, Greeks, Phoenicians, Arabs,
and other nationalities as well as the ancient Hebrews. Recalling the claim that the Arabs want to throw all Israelis
into the sea, Hussaini said that he did not think that that was true. On the contrary, the Palestinians were
thrown into the desert, he said, and it was only natural that they would want to fight back. Hussaini’s solution
to the problem is a “secular democratic state” in which all Arabs and Jews would be equal. He said that
all Palestinian Arabs should be permitted to return home. He decried conditions in Israeli-occupied Jordan and Gaza territories, in which
he said that Arabs are detained without trial and transferred to other areas against their will. Hussaini noted that there
are many Jews in the United States and in Israel who support the Palestinian struggle, naming specifically the Israeli Socialist
Organization in Israel, and in the United States many young Jewish political activists.

Rogers Accepts Call
By KURT GEISINGER
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Presbyterian Church, without a minister for almost a year, has finally found a man to fill the
empty pulpit. John B. Rogers, Jr., a 1963 Davidson graduate and an alumnus of Union Theological Seminary in Virginia, has
accepted the Davidson congregation's call and will assume his duties here in mid-February. Rogers, presently the associate minister at the
First Presbyterian Church of Durham, where he has served for a little over a year, has also served as an
instructor in the Department of Religion and as chaplain to students at Presbyterian College. Rogers, who is “looking forward to
getting to know Davidson students personally,” feels that “the church as a community should minister to the needs of the
students.” He also said that he encourages the church to “be the living body of Christ.” The new minister is
“optimistic about the potential of the Davidson congregation. It can become a real community of faith, a true prophetic community,”
living in the present in such a way as to build the future.

Versatility in the WDAV program schedule. A telephone has been hooked into the board so that students can call in
to request songs (892-1908) and on-the-air conversations can be conducted. The basic programming schedule will be the same as it
was before the station left the air in September. Classical music will occupy the 7-9 p.m. shift followed by an
hour of educational programming, and contemporary music will be on the air from 10 p.m. until sign-off at 1 a.m.
The educational shows will feature programs on many subjects, ranging from “The Swedish Woman” to forums on political issues. This
year’s staff is composed of Keeter as manager, Eric Vernon as personnel director, Mike O'Malley and Gary Scibal are in
charge of sports, and George Kaneklides will head up the WDAV editorial board. There is still space for anyone who
is interested in working for the station, however. Keeter spoke about this, “We encourage everyone who has any interest at
all, even if they don’t have any experience or talent, to come out and pitch in a hand with the
station. We feel that the station can benefit the student body in more than one way. Not only can they
listen to it, but they can also learn something by coming and participating in it.” Future plans for the station
are mainly directed toward going FM. The step would be relatively inexpensive, only $3,000, but the administration and staff want
to be sure that the programming is of sufficient quality to merit broadcast to the entire community. Overall, Keeter seems
quite happy that the station is now in such good shape and he is looking forward to a progressive future
for the station. “We’re excited about being on the air and hope that the student body and faculty will share
in our enthusiasm and will come in and share in some of the fun and some of the work so
we can make it into all it can be.”

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

Jackets, Sweaters, Shirts
Sweaters
Winter Suits, Sportcoats, Car Coats, Velours
30% To 60% Off
Our 60th Year
And Ladies Winterwear
