Page Ten AA ie x Friday, January 28 10:00 a.m. Alfred 12:50 p.m. with Dr. January 28, 1972 Up ‘n’
Coming Danforth Lecturer: Fontenilles Round Table discussion Fontenilles 7:00 p.m. Ape Festival: Planet of the Apes Morrison Room Wildcat A
Morrison Room Apes: Beneath the Planet of the Apes Saturday, January 29 7:30 p.m. Return of the Ape Festival Monday,
January 31 All Week Art Exhibit: Mint Museum Collection 10:00 a.m. Open Meeting on Coeducation Morrison Room Stowe Gallery Morrison
Room with Professor Brown Patterson 8:30 p.m. Watermelon Tuesday, February 1 10:00 a.m. Any Questions? Dr. Spencer 3:00 p.m. Placement
Luncheon Wednesday, February 2 10:30 a.m. Interview with Camp Winaukee Summer Work 3:00 p.m. Placement Luncheon 8:00 p.m. Fine Film:
To Adventure Friday, February 4 10:00 a.m. Country Saturday, February 5 7:30 p.m. Movie: Cry the Beloved Country 10:30 p.m.
Fried Chicken & Union Bar Morrison Room Union Bar Green Room Union Bar Love Auditorium Morrison Room Morrison Room Discussions
Slated On Foreign Affairs “Great Decisions 1972,” an annual eight-week study and discussion program focusing on current foreign policy topics,
will begin the week of January 30. Sponsored nationally by the Foreign Policy Association, a non-partisan organization devoted to developing
a wiser and more vigorous public influence on national policy decisions, this program offers students the opportunity to participate in
open informal debate with interested professors, townspeople, and each other on the great issues facing our nation today. (Continued From
Page 1) According to Eades, Spencer received the petition and said he would refer it to his vice presidents, John
M. Bevan and F. David Cornell, for their consideration. Cornell and Bevan are to make the ultimate decision on the
implementation of the comprehensive fee. As was expected by Eades, Spencer neither took nor promised any specific action on the
petition other than referring it to Bevan and Cornell. Eades expressed satisfaction with the success of his petition, emphasizing the
point that only five of the 135 students who he personally approached refused to sign it. The resolution passed by
the Patterson Court Council, which is composed of the club presidents and treasurers, came in a regular Tuesday meeting with
Dean Will Terry. Although the presidents conceded that the fee would make bookkeeping easier for the eating clubs, they opposed
the fee overall because they feel that it would hurt many students who are not now eating on Patterson Court.
The final vote of the group was 6-2. Meeting in small groups of eight to fifteen people once a week
for eight weeks, “Great Decisions” participants discuss one critical foreign policy issue each week. Background material for the discussion is
provided by concise objective readings in a booklet provided by the Foreign Policy Association and by weekly half-hour programs on
Sunday afternoon at 3:30 on the educational television network (Channel 58). The $3.00 charge for the background booklet is the
only expense involved. The topics of this year are: 1. Vietnam and After: What Lessons Have We Learned (Week of
Jan. 30) 2. Japan, the Common Market and the U.S. (Week of Feb. 6) 3. The Soviet Union and the
U.S. (Week of Feb. 13) 4. Chile’s Marxist Experiment (Week of Feb. 20) 5. Our China Policy: How Far and
Deep the Thaw (Week of Feb. 27) 6. Poor Nations and Rich Nations: Can the Gap Be Narrowed (Week of
March 5) 7. Guns and/or Butter: What Price National Security (Week of March 12) 8. Our Crowded World: What Solutions
to Population Problems (Week of March 19) Each group will select a moderator or rotate the responsibility among its members,
and the time and place of the meetings will also be determined by the group. If you would like to
form or join a group or order a booklet, please contact Mrs. Frederick Gaige, Box 2246 or 892-1856, or Peter
Sterling at the College Union. (Regionally the program is sponsored by the Institute for Urban Studies and Community Service, UNCC,
and locally by the League of Women Voters). Compromised Library Plan Produces Varied Reactions By DAVID ARANT Staff Writer With
the announcement of the trustee’s final approval of the facade for theE. H. Little Library, the reactions of some individuals
to the design of this building, which will be ready in four years, were quite pronounced. The approved plan was
the second submitted by the firm of Clark, Nexsen, and Owen. The first design, which was unveiled last October, was
of more traditional lines and met much opposition. The second plan combines a modern touch with the traditional by the
addition of two-story windows on the front and an archway-window combination around the sides and rear. Chalmers G. Davidson, chairman
of the Library Planning Committee, said, “I would hope that there is enough of the contemporary and traditional in the
final facade of the library to satisfy all points of view.”

However, many people were not pleased with this compromise of the contemporary and traditional. Larry L. Ligo, instructor in art,
believes that the plan is a waste of great potential. “To build an 18th-century building in the 20th century is
an immoral use of material.” Another student who is very much against the library facade is Cecil Burney. “I think
that it is a shame to waste so much money on a building so out of touch with the 20th
century.” Burney called the second design a “plastered-up job.” He expressed a strong desire for a modern library on campus
and believes that the present plan is “a hideous mistake.”

Other people feel that the final design is a vast improvement over the first. Ralph Peeples, SGA president, said, “I
think that it is a lot better than the first,” but added, “The principle involved in the change from the
original structure is the important thing. This is a case where student opinion was listened to.” Though most students seem
to express a strong preference toward the modern, the prevailing feeling is that the present plan is an improvement over
the October plan.

Students Voice Concern Over Course Registration
By JOHN CASSELS
Staff Writer

In the tradition of registration, students are once again complaining of their situation. Some freshmen have voiced concern and consternation
over the sparsity of courses offered for the spring term. The line outside Chambers dining hall began forming in early
afternoon Tuesday, as freshmen hoped to register for the choice spots left over from upperclassmen’s registration. Many felt that with
the fewer number of courses offered, their chances were bad.

When asked about the fewer number of courses, Richard C. Burts Jr., registrar, said, “I am not aware that there
are fewer courses offered in the spring.” Overall, the number of courses offered in each department was nearly the same
as the fall and winter terms. Burts pointed out that several upper-level courses must be worked in during the year
for major requirements, and the administration felt that several sections of such courses (Math 25, 26) were unnecessary in the
spring term.

Dean of Students Will H. Terry said, “I have not received as many complaints on course offerings and students being
bumped as I did in the fall and winter terms.” Terry felt that the extended studies program helped to alleviate
some of the previous problems, since students needed only two courses in most cases. “I think part of the problem
is that upperclassmen are filling spaces in courses that should have been saved for freshmen.” Terry said, however, that moves
had been made through particular departments to open the classes up to more freshmen and sophomores who are trying to
fill their area requirements. More advanced courses have been offered spring term to help upperclassmen fill major requirements; consequently, the
number of basic courses offered suffered from this necessary emphasis.

AT YOUR BOOKSTORE
THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.

Liberal: One who has both feet planted firmly in the air. Anon

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what “low net cost” really means.
Hal Mapes
Jim Roy
892-1467
892-1424

ROBERT T. STONE
District Agent
NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE
MILWAUKEE

We Sell Beautifully Conditioned OK Used Cars at a Realistic Profit. There’s not a better idea than this.
Safety Chevrolet Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
892-1106
