Page Two October 6, 1972 The Davidsonian

Griffin Street Man Watches Passersby From Wheelchair
By VAL VAN HORN
Staff Writer

Far past the railroad tracks on Griffin Street, a man sits alone on his porch watching the passersby. He cannot walk up the street to visit friends. He can walk nowhere, for he has no legs. The man’s name is Dewitt Brown. Head bowed, Brown appears to be asleep. At the sound of tentative footsteps, he raises his head. 

He patiently listens to a visitor's request, then begins to speak. Showing no sensitivity about his handicap, Brown told about the amputation of his legs. They were removed because of poor circulation. His right leg was removed in Charlotte, and at a later date, his left leg was amputated. 

Brown remembers before the amputation, he was a day laborer. Now, he has one son and grandsons. His wife died two weeks ago. 

“Yes, yes, she was a remarkable woman,” agrees Brown, emphatically nodding his bald head. “She was a nice wife, a nice wife. A man couldn’t have had a nicer one.”

The neighborhood children are Brown's most frequent visitors. Most of them are in school during the day, but Brown chortles softly about their summer visits. “They come up here and ask me questions. They want to hear my legs got cut off.”

Visitors are not frequent. Time hangs heavy for him, yet he does not read, for he has no glasses. “All the words just go together,” Brown explains, gesturing to indicate waves combining into one homogeneous blur. “Sometimes when it gets too bad, I put on these shades, and they help some.” While speaking, he draws a pair of non-prescription sunglasses from the confines of his wheelchair. Once they are seen, he carefully puts them back. 

Brown spits once, then begins to speak again. Settling back into his American chair, he continues to watch the passersby. 

HE SITS ALONE
Dewitt Brown spends each day gazing down the road.

Rowan Lectures On Elections
By JOHN PHIPPS
Staff Writer

Rowan delivered the first Reynolds Lecture of the 1972-73 school year in Love Auditorium this week. Rowan spoke on “The Nixon Record and the McGovern Challenge.”

“The polls are probably right when they tell you that we will have Richard Nixon to kick around some more,” said Rowan. According to the speaker, busing, welfare, and the integration of schools are the three major issues during the upcoming elections. 

On the subject of busing, Rowan stated that this was one of the most callously cynical issues ever forced on the American people.

Spencer Gives Committee Task Of Establishing New Priorities
By ALEC HOON
Managing Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has given the Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee (BBG) the task of looking at the entire physical plant of the college and formulating a long-range plan for future development. The committee, headed by Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell, will examine a number of suggestions and proposals for improving and expanding the college facilities.

“We will examine both past studies for physical planning and projections for the future, and then decide what we should do in the next 10-20 years,” Cornell said. Cornell specifically pointed to several areas that warrant attention.

Davidsonian Staff
Managing Editors: DOUG BROWN, ALEC HOON
Sports Editor: JOE EARLE
News Editor: TOM AINSWORTH
Photographs Editor: BILL BARNES
Assistant Managing Editors: BOB HOWELL, BRUCE MALOY, THOM NICOLL, MIKE TANNER
Assistant Features Editor: JOHN CASSELS
Copy Editor: BILL ELLETT
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Associate Editors: ALAN BARAGONA, ROBERT TOUCHTON, GRAY WILSON
Contributing Editors: TOM BRUCE, TODD EADES
Photographers: TAD BARNES, JIM DAVIS, PETE GOODMAN, ROB PETERSON, JOE RODRIGUEZ
Circulation: RICKY BELL, ROBERT GATES
Assistant Business Managers: CLIFF KIRK, RICHARD RUMEYN, RICH SMITH, PHIL STIKES
Asst. Sports Editor: DAVID MELTON
Contributors this week: Ralph Holloway, T. Jackson, Bill Lloyd, John McElveen, Larry T. Mims, Hugh Moore, Ford Newman, Jim Paulsen, Jim Sitterson, Val Van Horn, and Bob Wetzel

Published weekly at Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN.Tx scription rate: $5.00 218. Davidson, N.C. 28086

Yearly sub- special attention

One of these is in the area of the sciences where there is a definite need for more space and new equipment, especially in the Chemistry department. “If we are to maintain a competitive edge in getting our students into medical schools, we must have the best pre-med facilities to go along with good professors," he said. Cornell said that renovations of the Chemistry building alone would be in the neighborhood of three-quarters of a million dollars.

Other topics the committee will deal with are the need for more space for the Fine Arts Department, the kind of Student Union that the college should have, and other possible renovations of various parts of the campus. Cornell emphasized that one of the most significant governing factors will be the amount of money that will be available to be spent. At present, no predictions on the size of this sum can be made. He also said that his committee would have to wait to make any final decisions until two very important inputs were received. These are a decision by the ad hoc committee on housing headed by Dean of Students Will H. Terry as to the type and location of future student housing, and Director of the Union C. Shaw Smith's idea of what the new Union should be like. While no target date has been set for the BBG's decision, Cornell said that as soon as any decisions were made, they would be presented to Spencer.

He reminded the audience that nothing was said when black children were once bused to attain segregation. Only since white students have been bused lengthy distances to accomplish desegregation has discussion erupted concerning busing. Concerning welfare, Rowan stated that President Nixon had vetoed a public works bill at the same time he was encouraging puritan work ethics. On the subject of quotas, Rowan said that there will be no change in the number of Blacks occupying better business and government positions until there is more pressure. “The American people are going to swallow all the malarky about busing, welfare, and quotas," he predicted. “Mr. Nixon has been one of the shrewdest presidents to occupy 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue." Rowan added that “Mr. Nixon has been shrewd at sensing the frustrations of the people."

Wednesday night Rowan spoke on “The Fall Elections and America’s Future: Are We Moving to the Right?” His Thursday morning lecture was entitled “The Racial Factor in Presidential Politics.” Rowan, a former director of the U.S. Information Agency and winner of more than a dozen journalism awards, was deputy assistant secretary of State for public affairs in 1961-1963 and U.S. Ambassador to Finland in 1963-64. After serving a year as director of USIA, he became a columnist and still serves in that capacity. His column appears in over 200 newspapers including “The Charlotte Observer.” He has written several books, including “South of Freedom,” “The Pitiful and the Proud,” “Go South to Sorrow,” and “Wait Till New Year.” He is a graduate of Oberlin and the University of Minnesota.

Miscellany Competition

The Miscellany is conducting a contest for their Winter '73 issue in the areas of prose and poetry, according to magazine editor Frank Erwin. Unpublished, original works eligible for the two $100 and two $50 prizes must be submitted to The Miscellany by Nov. 13, 1972 with a $1 entrance fee. Students may also submit their manuscripts for regular publication consideration. The issue will be published in late December.

Campus Radio To Broadcast

By RALPH HALLOWAY
Staff Writer

WDAV, the campus radio station, will be on the air by mid-year if all goes well, according to Station Manager Jeff Allender. The station managers have been beset by problems since its debut last year. Contributing to the delay of the station's broadcasting have been the lack of a legal broadcasting frequency and the apparent low position of the station's creation on the school priority list. However, despite these many setbacks, a formal plan for the station's creation still exists. WDAV is to broadcast from seven at night until one in the morning, Sunday through Friday. The first hours of the program will be devoted to educational programs and classical music. The final three hours will be devoted to choice pop or rock music. “This year holds the opportunity for a radio station at Davidson to offer increased service to the college community and an increase in both quality and coverage,” Allender said.