Page Six March 10, 1972 (Staff photo by Barnes)

A FAMILIAR SIGHT
John Guret raps with a freshman.

The Davidsonian

Nader-Inspired Research Proliferates On Campuses
By BILL GIDUZ
Asst. Managing Editor

There is presently a movement in many universities around the nation to form Public Interest Research Groups (PIRG). Several states
already have functioning groups, and both North and South Carolina are starting to set up PIRG as well. If a
student has a complaint on any matter from pollution of a local creek to high bookstore prices, he is encouraged
to bring it up before his campus PIRG board. After reviewing all complaints, the local board acts on the ones
it can and sends the rest to the appropriate authorities.

Guret Teaches, Writes, Raps As Treatise Slowly Proceeds
By PHIL BISHOP
Staff Writer

His name may be unfamiliar to upperclassmen, but his face is certainly familiar to freshmen and other patrons of the
Union cafeteria. John Guret can usually be found there, laughing and talking with a group of interested students. Guret is
spending a year at Davidson while he finishes work on his book. He said he came to Davidson “because it’s
quiet and I can work here unmolested.”

Guret holds degrees in literature from Yale and Harvard, and a theological degree from Westminster Seminary. Guret said Davidson's faculty
compared favorably with Yale’s and Harvard’s, “partly because here professors are under less pressure to publish and can concentrate more
on teaching.” Guret audited an English class last term and he is sharing teaching duties in Prof. Charles Lloyd's Literary
Criticism class now.

Guret has been developing his book, “Christianity and the Theory of Literature,” since 1958. He said it involves “a fusion
of Augustinian values and literary expression.” At Yale, Guret was an editor for Rene Wellek, a leading literary theorist. Guret
said that his connection of Christian thought with literature has raised problems of language. In any relatively new interpretation, “one
must either give old terms new meanings and risk misunderstanding, or create a new vocabulary and risk obscurity,” he said.
Guret taught for seven years at Dordt College in Iowa, and student reactions have helped shape his ideas.

ARA Slater Survey Polls Strong Student Approval
By BRUCE MALOY
Staff Writer

This past November, ARA Slater unit manager Ron Scott ran a survey to determine the students’ feelings about the food
service and their preferences about particular foods. The results of this survey now have been compiled and are being studied
in hopes of improving the food service.

The survey indicates that the students approve of the way that the cafeteria is run on almost every point. The
areas which received the highest percentages of positive responses were quality of food served, size of portions, seconds policy, buffet
style service, courtesy of employees, appearance of regular employees, flavor of food served, and standards of cleanliness. Scott stated that
the main problem with the much-criticized outdoor picnics was that they seemed to attract the rain.

The two areas which drew the largest number of “no opinions” were the manner of acceptance of suggestions and complaint
handling. Manager Ron Scott was at a loss to explain this trend except to say that the ARA Slater staff
tries to correct problems before someone has to complain. It was noted that ninety-three percent of those answering the survey
approved of the availability of the management.

Another part of the survey asked for the students’ favorite food in several categories. Among the entrees, roast beef ranked
as the favorite followed by roast turkey, steak, and fried chicken. Chinese beef and green peppers came in last in
this category. Corn, string beans, french fries, and mashed potatoes were the favorite vegetables. Lettuce and tomatoes ranked first in
the salad category with carrot and raisin salad faring poorly. The great American favorites, the hamburger and the cheeseburger, were
the preferred sandwiches while the grilled cheese brought up the rear. Ice cream sundaes won out as the favorite dessert.The
favorite dessert, leaving rhubarb and purple plum cobbler tied for last place. In the final category, milk beat coffee as
the favorite beverage. The results from this part of the survey will be used to help plan menus in the
future, Scott said to clarify his theories. “My students have been a blessing to my book. They show an infallible
detection of fraudulence in thought and obscurity in language,” he remarked. Rene Wellek and Charles Lloyd have also helped Guret
discipline his approach. “At first, I tended to be dogmatic because of my insecurity. Now I’m certain my approach is
a legitimate one, though not the only legitimate one.” Guret said he is convinced Christianity “is relevant both to disciplines
of thought and to individuals, and thus intellectually defensible.”

Once it feels valid on a statewide level to the state board of PIRG directors, action is conducted through a
full-time staff, hired lawyers, investigators, and specialists. Great controversy has arisen on several campuses, notably the University of South Carolina,
over the method of collection of funds to finance PIRG. Each student is taxed $3 per year by the school,
that amount just being added onto his school bill. The collected money then is given to the campus PIRG who
keeps some for local activities and gives the rest to the state board. At USC, the YAF (Young Americans for
Freedom) bitterly resented this at first, but then it was revealed that any student who wants to can have his
money refunded. Requests for refunds have not been overwhelming, however. Only 24 out of 20,000 students at the University of
Minnesota wanted their money back. Students elect the members of the campus board, and each campus board in turn elects
the state board. Although no attempt has been made to begin such an organization at Davidson, at least eight colleges
and universities in North and South Carolina are working on PIRG chapters. They include Duke, UNC, NC State, UNC-G, Clemson,
USC, and Winthrop. Apparently, no statewide board will be elected until local units are more organized. Ralph Nader originated the
concept of PIRG, but no funds for local or state units come from his national consumer protection organization. Nader feels,
“Citizenship experience should be an integral part of educational attainments,” and he thinks PIRG can be part of this citizenship
experience.

Four Nations Take 27 Rising Juniors
By STEVE LERESCHWE
Staff Writer

The Office of International Education has announced the names of 27 students who have been tentatively approved for study abroad
during the 1972-73 academic year. Nine students have been approved for study in Germany. They include: Douglas Berry, Philip Bishop,
Robert Brown, Joseph Hudson, Albert Kyle, T. Britt Lowry, Thomas K. Redding, Thomas W. Traxler, and Ellen Spencer. The twelve
students tentatively approved for study in France are: Allen Blakely, Alex Coblentz, Joseph H. Dimon, William R. Giduz, Raymond E.
Grubb, John C. Hines, J. Manning Hudson, George Poe, Lewis T. Rogers, Andrew Strawcutter, Sam Upchurch, and Eric Vernon. Herb
Dimmock, John Douglas, Richard Hendrix, Robert A. Little, and Jeff Johnston have qualified to study in England. Jack Hobbs has
been approved for a junior year of study in Spain.

50,000 JOBS
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
CAREER OPPORTUNITY PROGRAMS

The National Agency Of Student Employment Has Recently Completed A Nationwide Research Program Of Jobs Available To College Students And
Graduates During 1972. Catalogs Which Fully Describe These Employment Positions May Be Obtained As Follows:

Catalog of Summer Career Positions Available Throughout the United States in Resort Areas, National Corporations, and Regional Employment Centers. Price
$3.00.

Foreign Job Information Listing Over 1,000 Employment Positions Available in Many Foreign Countries. Price $3.00.

SPECIAL: Both of the Above Combined Catalogs With A Recommended Job Assignment To Be Selected For You. Please State Your
Interests. Price $6.00.

National Agency of Student Employment
Student Services Division
No. 35 Erkenbrecher
Cincinnati, Ohio 45220
