Che Pavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR MAY 5, 1972

Year Of Struggle

The essence of Davidson in the academic year 1971-72 was struggle. The most productive struggle this year proved to be
the research and final approval of coeducation. The Educational Policy Committee successfully grappled with Davidson’s viable future as a coeducational
institution and with the academic and financial difficulties which accompany such a move. After all the constituencies were consulted, the
faculty and now the trustees have launched Davidson on a new course in higher education. Hopefully, Davidson will reap the
advantages of this struggle.

While consensus emerged from the struggle with coeducation, such was not the case in the conflict over campus governance. The
deliberations of the Trustee Governance Committee produced conflict rather than consensus, hate rather than harmony. It was only in yesterday’s
meeting that an effort toward compromise appeared evident.

Davidson made progress, on the other hand, in the struggle to update its academic curriculum. Despite some isolated dissent in
certain faculty quarters, the college made some advancement with the systemization of the Career Service program, the negotiation of the
Baroda program, the implementation of the phys. ed. program, and the organization of the three-year graduation program.

In the wrestle with student life, Davidson made some advances and retreats. The new governance regulations on student conduct were
implemented this year and appear to be working effectively. Unfortunately, the Conduct Council began deliberations late in the year and
apparently has accomplished little. The college also struggled with the new social system which was fully implemented this year. Although
approximately 72 percent of the Freshman Class affiliated with a house, the system is not functioning as well as it
should. Hopefully, Jim Thompson and the newly formed Patterson Court Council can strengthen the system so that it will accommodate
student needs.

In other areas of student life, the Union program seemed to lag this year in the eyes of many students.
It seemed that the activities in the program were unevenly distributed and exhibited little creativity. And the speaker program was
basically poor. With the exception of a few lecturers, most failed to capture the imagination and interest of the community.

In the area of finance and development, the college was again embroiled in conflict and struggle. The comprehensive fee caused
quite a heated discussion but was resolved by compromise. The administration still has not responded to the transcript fee question,
and this, we feel, is unfortunate. Progress, however, was made in the development office, presently in its embryonic stage. The
deferred giving program was outlined and implemented this year, and the Queens-Davidson Fund was inaugurated. These developments along with the
growth of the Annual Fund are hopeful signs for the future.

Student Government continued the struggle this year to define itself and lobby for changes in the governance of the campus.
The Senate proved instrumental in overturning the comprehensive fee decision, and the establishment of the Grievance Committee was a major
step forward in student services. But while the student government took action on many issues, the Senate continued to react
to situations rather than to take the initiative. Although some senators have contributed much to student government, others continue to
debate petty issues, disregard what is important, and exhibit an unwillingness to perform the necessary research and hard work to
make a difference in the college.

Davidson seemed to take a step backward with the faculty veto of student representation on the Budget, Buildings and Grounds
Committee, on the Admissions Committee, and on open faculty meetings. Such action was one factor in the downslide of student-faculty
relations.

Struggle characterized other areas in the college community this year as well. The YMCA spent most of the year redefining
itself and now appears ready to play a more active part in college and town activities.

The administration and students of the college struggled with the issue of campus security this year and now have a
plan which they hope will curtail the assaults and the recent wave of thefts.

Thus Davidson was embroiled in struggle throughout this academic year. In some areas, we moved forward and in others, we
regressed. The areas mentioned above are only the highlights of the year, but they seem to reflect the effort on
the part of at least some of the constituencies of the college to grapple with campus issues. In retrospect, such
struggle appears profitable. For out of struggle emerges change and hope for the future.

DON PARMAN

Memories Of Chapel Depart When Class Of ’72 Graduates

Four years is a long time. Four years is enough time to work changes in both individuals and institutions and
Davidson College has certainly seen some changes in the time that the class of 1972 has been more or less
around. It's always been hard to be around because it’s so nice to be away. But it wasn’t all bad;
some days the sun shined and the birds sang.

There are some aspects of Davidson life that will just fade away after this spring’s class graduates—the memory of Chapels,
everyone with their Tangerine Bowl watches except for Dave Fagg, and the quotes. Chapel is one of the things which
has to be nominated for that special category of things which were unmitigated hell in their...Day but which have surprisingly
happy (or at least funny) memories. Chapel was at its best on Thursday morning, Sports Illustrated Day, when visiting speakers
joked out on a broad expanse of covers featuring pictures of Lew Alcindor. If the folks out there weren't asleep,
the speakers were top drawer: the Peace Pilgrim replete in her black sweatshirt with the hood that said, coincidentally, “Peace
Pilgrim” on the front; the China expert; and the cybernetics man who was as automated as the topic. I think
that he held the record for most times a speaker was interrupted by applause. Each of the page turns drew
heavy applause. Chapel was the home of some of the best quotes I've heard outside of second-year humanities. “It’s been
my experience that two-thirds of the evil in the world occurs after midnight,” Dean Burts on curfew hours. Chapel was
also the source of interesting data for the psychology department. Being campused at Davidson for overcutting chapel is at least
negative reinforcement. The entire class of 1972 offered to leave the school rather than take their area exams. The class
stayed.

If Davidson has changed physically, it has to be on the inside. The Carolina Inn has been restored as a
place to put carpet on the floor and hot chocolate on the stove. The dorms look less like primordial caves
on the inside (they still look like ancient monuments on the outside). Time was once that we were going to
have a new library at Davidson. As freshmen, we left the freshman dinner with full stomachs and a warm glow
in our hearts from the words of the new president, “By the time you are seniors, you'll be studying in
the new library-learning center.” At least next year they won't be eating in the old union anymore. Chambers Building used
to have classrooms before the administration split in two. Led on by the slogan, “It takes money to make money,”
the administration has spent money. They may start making some soon. The administration has surveyed in the modern world with
a unique logic all its own, an apologetic smile when they're in the wrong and a devilish gleam when they
have you.

If one single attitude has changed in four years at Davidson, it has to be the college’s fall from its
grace. Four years ago, this was a confident college, two thousand applicants a year, at ease with itself and its
world. Today it's quite different, the college has lost its old-time easy solvency, the curriculum is still under revision, and
the students and faculty are both looking at different approaches to the educational experience. What the college has lost in
its insecurity, it has gained in a new willingness to respond to the challenge of education. But “coeducation is just
around the corner.” I sure hope that isn’t another slogan which finds its way into the land of broken dreams.

Anti-Bomb Gesture Receives Approval

To the Editor:

I want to applaud the young men who carried a sign around the auditorium during Convocation last Friday, reminding us
all once more, that though life goes on as usual here, we are continuing to bomb in Vietnam. I heard
some reservations expressed about the suitability of a visible protest—but when a member of the national government is at a
public gathering, the reasonableness of showing some sign of protest to national policy is unquestionable—especially since these young men are
being forced to serve that policy through the draft, and the rest of us are being forced to pay for
it through our taxes. They did nothing to disrupt the ceremonies, and heaven knows the rest of the community did
nothing to support them except let them remain.

Mrs. Donald L. Kimmel, Jr.
Davidson, N.C.

Entertainment

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

The Oratorio Singers will perform the “Grand Mass in C Minor” by Mozart tomorrow night at 8:15 in Ovens Auditorium.
The 150-voice chorus is directed by Davidson Professor Donald Plott. Student tickets are $1.50 to $2.75. Josh White Jr. will
sing in Dana Auditorium at Queens College tomorrow night at 8 p.m. The Villagers will present a concert on the
lawn at 2 p.m. Three one-act plays continue at the Globe Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum. The Mint Drama
Guild production of Strindberg's “Miss Julie,” Chekhov's “The Marriage Proposal” and Albee’s “The Death of Bessie Smith” will be presented
May 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, and 13 at 8:15 p.m. and May 7 at 2:30 p.m. Tickets are $3.
Governor George Wallace (D-Ala.), candidate for President, will speak tonight at the Park Center. There is no admission charge. Van
Cliburn, pianist, will present a concert at Ovens Auditorium May 14 at 3 p.m. Admission to this Community Concert is
by season ticket only. “The Last of the Red Hot Lovers” continues at The Pineville Dinner Theatre through May 14.
“How the Other Half Loves” will begin May 17. The buffet opens at 7 p.m. with the curtain rising at
8:45. Prices vary between $6.50 and $10, depending on the night.
