Davidson Sex Life

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

GUEST COLUMN

The Davidsonian

March 10, 1972

Page Five

Changing Situation Supports Student Optimism For Future

By RALPH PEEPLES
SGA President

It is not easy, in the spring of 1972, to come up with any sort of consistent statement on where
Davidson College stands and in what direction it is headed. To even a casual observer, there are both encouraging signs
that the college is indeed moving closer to realizing the time-honored dream of becoming a true community and at the
same time inescapable indications that the mood of the past still weighs heavily on the vigorous spirit of change which
is so vital to the life of the college. Still, it is not at all impossible to be optimistic about
the future of Davidson College. There are several reasons why this is so.

There is first of all the fact that the position of the student in relation to the college - the
extent to which his opinions are listened to, the extent to which attention is given to his needs - is
much healthier, much improved over the situation here as little as two years ago. Three illustrations of this observation are
the way in which the final decision on the comprehensive fee was reached, the work of the EPC subcommittee on
coeducation, and the cooperation between the SGA and the administration in recruiting for the 8-college exchange. As a result, the
number of women students who have expressed interest in coming to Davidson as part of the exchange program is double
the number of coeds here for the 1971-1972 school year.

There is, secondly, the fact that Davidson, not only if it is to continue as a superior institution of learning,
but if it is to survive at all, must take unequivocal steps towards im-

JYAs See Imminent Campus Collapse

To the Editor:

“There is absolutely no escape from imbecility as long as there is a willingness to constipate what should be happening.”
—John “Cecil” Galt

Good evening, Mr. Galt. There is a disintegration sweeping the land, a disintegration the like of which mankind has never
seen before and will likely never witness again. This all-encompassing wave of dilapidation has, as predicted by the dialectic of
history, centered itself on the midpoint of the cosmos; Davidson College has finally succumbed to the all-pervasive rot.

We, the gestating spores of the Continuing College Community Abroad, have withdrawn from Civilization to the catacombs of western Europe
to formulate our plan for the rebirth of the true Davidson College after the inevitable collapse. We hereby proclaim the
Davidson Disintegration Theory our plan for a truly Utopian College Community built upon the smoldering ashes of the old.

Your mission, Mr. Galt, should you decide to accept it, is to hasten the inevitable collapse of said sick system,
symptomized by the irreconcilable differences between the Provisional Administration Government of Tricky Dick (‘My hands are tied,’) Burps and the
Peeples Republic of Davidson. The question at hand concerns the systematic undermining of the natives’ sacred freedoms; we have reason
to believe that Burps and his henchmen hope to establish a totalitarian rule over the oppressed proles:

1. Earlier this year Administration troops carried out a staged assault upon a coed, leading to cries for ‘collective security’
and harsh ‘police state’ measures on the campus.
2. Top Provisional Government leaders John ‘On-the-Level’ Bevel and C. David Cornpone, who along with nominal President Spam Sinister form
a ruling troika, have proclaimed a new economic policy of oppression under the guise of a Comprehensive Fee; said fee
will undermine the natives’ ability of economic self-sufficiency and heavily burden the natives’ Eskimo Pie Mines operations.

We see the immediate results of these provocations as open warfare between Administration forces and rebelling students, replete with riots,
an expected R.O.T.C backlash, sniping on campus, gradual paralysis of the natives’ will, and eventual complete destruction of life and
property.

In closing, Mr. Galt, preparations should be made for our return and the inauguration of the Utopian College Community. Furthermore,
should you or any of your group be caught or killed, the Secretary of the Continuing College Community Abroad will
disavow any knowledge of your actions.

Good luck, Mr. Galt.

Mike Wheeler
Rick Moretz
J. Edward Seiber
Bob LewisMichael Deese, Peter Morgan, Thomas Giesecke
Marburg, Germany

Implementing coeducation as soon as feasible. I see no reason why that first big step could not come in the
fall of '72. There is, in addition, the opportunity this spring to finally make the new social system work, to
the benefit of us all, in particular, to the benefit of the class of '75. It will take a lot
of honest thought, a lot of cooperation, and a lot of humility to make things fall together; but it can
be done. The close cooperation of the eating clubs, the Union, the SGA, and the RHC, all working for one
single, unified purpose can produce a well-planned, sensitive social system which will offer something for all Davidson students, something more
than just a place to eat.

To be sure, there are also signs of trouble ahead. The question of the college’s priorities still hasn’t been settled.
Students are still excluded from participating in the preparation of the budget. Responsibility and privilege cannot be separated; it cannot
be the responsibility of the student body to be concerned about the college's financial difficulties if they are to be
systematically excluded from the planning and preparation of the budget. Faculty meetings remain closed. The question of governance remains unresolved.

You can expect from the SGA this term a well-planned spring offensive of action. The drive for coeducation will have
first priority throughout the spring. Positive steps for improving security on campus are forthcoming. Action to improve registration procedure will
also be part of the offensive, as will continuing efforts to improve the social system. Nor will this be all.

Sometimes I think we don’t demand enough of the SGA. The Student Government Association is annually entrusted with around $3,000
of student money. This is quite an obligation, and if the people we elect don’t deliver, all of us have
a right to make the fact known - accompanied, hopefully, with a little tact and some honest suggestions for improvement.

Outside Perspective
By LEX VEAZEY

Indiana Introduces “Academic Bankruptcy”

Students at Indiana University who, for financial or personal reasons, have had an academically disastrous semester may now petition for
“academic bankruptcy.” If the particular student’s petition is approved, all of his grades for the semester, including passing grades, are
eliminated. The grades will not count toward graduation and will not be figured into the student’s scholastic average. This policy
will eliminate the necessity for students to extend their undergraduate education to make up low grade-point averages resulting from one
semester’s failures.

N.Y. Moves To Stop The Sale Of Theses

New York State Attorney General Louis Lefkowitz has begun court action to dissolve Termpapers, Inc., a company that produces “research”
papers for sale to college students. According to Stephen Mindell, an assistant attorney general, the company’s conduct violates the public
policy of New York law that seeks to “maintain and preserve the integrity of the educational process.” The suit, filed
in the State Supreme Court, charges Kathleen Saksniit and Termpapers, Inc., of which she is president, with subverting the educational
process and helping students obtain degrees by fraudulent means.

In another incident involving term paper companies, 23 of 40 Harvard University term papers that were recently stolen turned up
in the hands of Minuteman Research, a term paper supply service. Columbia University has recently lost 150 term papers through
theft. Term papers also have been stolen at Syracuse University, Cornell, the University of Massachusetts, and New York University.

UNC Prohibits Waterbeds

James Cansler, associate dean of student affairs at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, recently stated that it
was his decision that waterbeds not be permitted in dorms “on grounds that they would not be worth the time
and energy it would take to ensure their proper usage.” Cansler said that none of the eleven universities he surveyed
permitted waterbeds. Cansler added, “We must also consider that waterbeds may be a passing fad.” Steve Saunders, Residence College Federation
chairman, labeled the waterbed decision as “an efficiency-oriented move, unconcerned with the students’ wants.” He said that waterbeds would add
a touch of personality to the institutionalized appearance of dorm rooms.
