Tenure System Receives Criticism
By BILL GIDUZ and PHIL BISHOP

(This is the first in a series of three articles dealing with the issue of faculty evaluation and tenure.)

Great criticism has been directed toward America’s colleges and universities lately concerning the issue of tenure for professors. The guidelines for tenure were set up by the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) and most institutions acceded to those guidelines years ago with no trouble arising until recently.

The campus unrest of 1968-1969, which questioned in part curriculum and staff, was the first major manifestation of disagreement with the tenure system. According to the dissidents, tenure causes stagnation of institutions by keeping out new ideas and people. It appears that their criticism is justified in many cases, but it’s not because of the tenure system on paper; rather it is the perversion of that system when put into practice.

Many people, students included, seem to feel that once a professor is tenured, he is set for life. It has been stated that tenure protects against everything except “death, retirement, or assassinating a member of the board of trustees.” Unfortunately, tenure has been twisted into just such a bulwark of invincibility. In practice, tenure has often protected incompetent or intellectually stagnant professors from evaluation or dismissal.

According to the AAUP rules, tenure is no guarantee of lifetime employment; it is merely a guarantee of academic freedom. Proponents of the tenure system say that this academic freedom will benefit the institution and therefore society as a whole. In the March issue of “Civil Liberties,” Robert Bierstedt and Walter Metzger state that, “tenure guarantees to its society that its more articulate members will be free to criticize its institutions without fear of economic reprisals.”

A tenured professor is free to espouse his views on academic matters without fear of censure by his college. He may, however, be fired at any time when adequate cause is given for his dismissal. Herein lies much of the controversy over tenure, because “adequate cause” means only that the cause cannot be academic in nature. Therefore it is an ambiguous and murky term, and each institution determines its own meaning. Most often “adequate cause” is interpreted as criminal violation, moral degradation, or an extraordinary financial situation. Being so hard to define, most institutions have chosen not to try to define it clearly and give professors almost unlimited freedom.

If the institution does feel that it has adequate cause to dismiss a faculty member, he must be given a full hearing. The institution must prove his guilt; he is not required to prove his innocence.

Professors usually are given tenure automatically after seven years of service at a university. Until that time they are under one or two-year probationary contracts. During their probationary period, professors are evaluated according to AAUP standards of research, teaching, and university service. The renewal of their contract is considered in light of their performance in these areas.

One criticism of tenure is that, during this probationary period, professors may feel stifled in their academic freedom because they don’t want to jeopardize their chance of being rehired. AAUP policy recognizes this lack of freedom on the part of probationary professors and says that they must depend “primarily on the support and understanding of faculty colleagues, administration, professional organizations, and the AAUP for job security.” As a warning and hint to young professors, the guidelines assert that the junior faculty member must take special care not “to introduce into his teaching controversial matter which has no relation to his subject.”

William Van Alstyne, chairman of the Committee on Academic Freedom and Tenure of the AAUP, said “academic freedom of non-tenured faculty will necessarily have been more constrained given the fact that he has continued to face the prospect of non-renewal without demonstration of adequate cause.” No hearing is required to explain to a professor on probation why his contract is not being renewed.

A second criticism involves the problem of a professor’s personality in the renewal of a contract. However, many respond to this criticism by saying that (See TENURE, Page 10)

The Davidsonian
Vol. LXI No. Twenty-five
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
April 21, 1972

Registrar Explains Computer Procedure For Making Course Selections Next Year
By BOB HOWELL
Asst. Managing Editor

In response to much confusion concerning theNew computerized registration system, Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. gave an in-depth explanation of the mechanics of the plan. Burts described what processes will take place after each student has returned his six preference cards.

“After all the cards have been key punched with the student’s alpha number and the identification of the particular course, the computer will draw up a random order in which each student’s stack of cards will be processed. A random order will be obtained for each class,” Burts explained, “and all the cards will be run through the computer, first seniors, then juniors, then sophomores.

“We have it set up so that the first time through, every student gets one of the high-ranking courses in his deck,” said Burts. In other words, the computer first runs through every student’s group of cards, giving each his first choice if that class has not yet been filled. If a student’s first choice has been filled, the computer immediately gives that student his second choice, if it is not yet filled.

According to Burts, it is highly improbable that a student will not get either his first or second choice. “It has been our experience in the past that usually seniors, juniors, and sophomores get the courses they want,” he said. (Staff photo by Barnes)

A LAZY AFTERNOON OF STUDY
Students take advantage of warm days this week to soak up the rays.

After the computer has finished giving every student a course in this manner, it will run through the entire list again to assign each student a second course, and then once more for the third course. Burts said that it had not yet been decided what would be the order of consideration on the second and third runs, but he remarked, “We may reverse the first order, or, if it would be feasible, we may draw up a new random order for each run.”

Burts went on to explain that after the first run, the computer would determine whether a student would be granted his subsequent choices based on both the course ceiling of those choices and the hours of classes which the student had already secured. “We’re estimating that the six choices submitted by each student will assure him of getting registered for three courses, taking into consideration either of these conflicts,” Burts added.

“If we find that a student comes up with less than three courses after all his choices have been considered, we’ll send him more cards for several additional preferences,” he observed, but went on to say, “This possibility is highly theoretical since it’s so improbable.”

Burts expressed his desire that students will “really put down their true preferences and not try to beat the system. If a person doesn’t get a course he really needs in the drawing, there’s a good chance that he can pick up the course during the drop-add period,” he continued. “If this is unsuccessful after a few days, the student may take his case to the department chairman of the course in question. It will be up to his judgment whether or not the ceiling can be broken.”

Burts suggested that courses a student is assured of getting into, such as Humanities, be placed as the third preference. “Beyond this, there’s the possibility that a student may schedule himself out of courses he needs to be in,” he said.

“This system is of course more impersonal than the other,” continued Burts, “but we want to emphasize the personal part of advisement and setting preferences. The whole system, I think, hinges on the adequacy of advisement.”

The SGA Senate this week passed a resolution opposing the new plan on the grounds of student dissatisfaction and the complication of the computerized system. Junior Senator Bill Roland enumerated his objections to the plan, emphasizing that “students make decisions about schedules based on much more complicated criteria than can be expressed in a list of six courses.” He noted that “Often what a student chooses for his second and third courses depends on what his first choice is, so these must be flexible. The computer is not programmed to give a student a balanced schedule, but one which is merely three separate courses.”

Correction
A typographical error in last week’s paper caused an erroneous account of the faculty vote on coeducation. The correct vote was 60 in favor, 6 against, and two abstentions.