Page Six
October 20, 1972
The Davidsonian

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

The Democrats this fall face an uphill battle to unseat the incumbent Republican administration while trying to get members of
their party elected in state and federal races. However, several students on campus are actively campaigning for their favorite candidate.

McGOVERN
Will Robertson and Erwin Barron are the leaders of the McGovern campaign on campus. When asked why they are supporting
McGovern, they replied that it is a matter of the war and priorities. Explaining that they have a feeling that
people who discredit the administration are being closed out, Robertson and Barron pointed out that the President has not concentrated
enough on domestic issues such as poverty and racial discrimination.

Robertson felt that the most important work in politics goes on at the precinct level and commended the student body
for being generally well-informed. There are about 50 volunteers actively supporting McGovern at Davidson. The campaigners have done some fundraising
and, last week, had their first campus canvas. The purpose of this canvas was to find out where the undecided
votes are, so that these people can be contacted and given literature. Robertson and Barron remarked that they were somewhat
dismayed by the results of the first straw poll but believe that McGovern will gain significantly in the next one.

BOWLES
For those not familiar with North Carolina political figures, Skipper Bowles is a former state senator who is running for
governor this year. His literature pictures him as very popular with young people since he has sponsored the Environmental Bill
of Rights and has worked for a more viable public education program.

According to Bo Phillips, leader of the Bowles campaign on campus, there are only about 312 students from North Carolina
at Davidson. This makes the state and local campaigns on campus more difficult. Bowles’s senate record and his concern for
the environment and public education are the primary reasons why Phillips became involved in the campaign. Echoing Robertson's opinion that
students at Davidson are well-informed, Phillips said he does not feel the need to plaster the campus with pamphlets and
stickers. Rather, he is distributing a few pamphlets and putting up posters on campus. Also, he is working a good
bit for the North Mecklenburg Bowles campaign.

When asked if Bowles is actively supporting McGovern, Phillips replied that the candidate agrees with McGovern on many issues but
has had to stay away from him because of the presidential nominee's unpopularity in North Carolina.

GALIFIANAKIS
Bill McKinnon, the campus leader of the Nick Galifianakis for United States Senate campaign, cited a reaction to apathy as
his reason for becoming involved in politics. McKinnon said that his involvement was a proof to himself that he was
not apathetic. Although the announcement sheets have carried pleas for help in the Galifianakis campaign, he reported that only two
students have offered to help. The college campaign, according to McKinnon, has not really started yet. It will consist mostly
of distribution of pamphlets and bumper stickers to North Carolina students. Posters will also be placed in prominent areas. McKinnon
is planning on canvassing the Davidson-Cornelius and Charlotte areas.

Young Republicans Working For Big Victory In November
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Contributing Editor

A total of approximately 60 students are actively involved in working for Republican candidates. President Nixon, gubernatorial candidate Jim Holshouser,
and candidate for Congress Jim Martin are represented on campus by separate groups. Behind the Republican campaigns on campus is
the Young Republican organization, whose president George Kaneklides sees his group's role as that of a "manpower reserve pool." Club
members work for the various organizations according to their interest and the need for their help. Kaneklides encourages everyone to
work for Republican candidates regardless of their political affiliation.Years. will not actively support Senator McGovern because he feels that he
(Galifianakis) can do a better job working for himself.

BEATTY
Larry Horowitz is working on the campaign to elect Jim Beatty to Congress. Horowitz, a resident of California, started his
political work as a political science assignment. He cited agreement with Beatty and his disagreement with the Republican candidate as
the reason for supporting his candidate. Horowitz faces a tougher task campaigning than the other leaders, for only a few
students actually live in this district and can vote.

"We are anxious," he said, "to show that there are a great many Democrats and independents who support Republican candidates."
As a chartered organization, the Young Republicans can apply for SGA funds; however, Kaneklides stated that they would not do
so. "I would not want the senate to be in the position of having to support a candidate," he said.
At the present time, all activities undertaken by the Young Republicans are funded by its membership.

Of the groups supporting individual candidates, President Nixon has by far the largest block of supporters (25). Chairman of the
Davidson College Young Voters for President, Robert Touchton, sees his candidate's local campaign as "being in excellent shape" and points
to the straw vote taken two weeks ago in which Nixon defeated McGovern 320 to 245 as evidence of Nixon's
support on campus. He claims that the results did not surprise him. "I think that the President's support is even
greater than was indicated by the poll," said Touchton, adding that "apathy or fear of ridicule may have kept many
from expressing their support." Touchton called the results of the faculty poll "disappointing," and said he feels that peer pressure
may have been a factor.

"Our approach to the campaign is twofold," said Touchton. "We first want to present the record of Richard Nixon so
that students can decide whether they prefer that to the promises of George McGovern." He said the second objective is
"to show the community and those on the campus that there are people at Davidson who support the President." Another
strategy of Nixon supporters is an advertising campaign, which was initiated with two ads in THE DAVIDSONIAN last week. Several
more are planned for the future. Copy for the ads and their expense is supplied by the membership in Davidson
College Young Voters for the President.

The Davidson Youth for Holshouser are off to a slower start with their campaign than any of the other Republican
groups. Chairman Vince Rabil admits that while they have taken little concrete action yet, an on-campus program is planned for
the near future. Though plans are still in their formative stages, Rabil hopes to bring Holshouser (who, like Martin, is
a Davidson alumnus) to the campus around homecoming. Funds from Nixon headquarters are available for activities supporting Holshouser if Rabil
decides to apply for them. He has suggested an advertising campaign as a possible course of action for the future.
Rabil admits that Holshouser may face "an uphill battle," and emphasized that student involvement in the campaign could have an
effect upon its outcome.

Davidson students working for the Martin campaign operate primarily from the candidate’s Charlotte office. Most recently, many took part in
the "Bumper Blitz," in which workers canvass the major shopping centers to hand out bumper stickers. Others work at secretarial
positions in which helpers put in between 6-9 hours a week. Chairman of Davidson Youth for Martin, Cal Morton, feels
that there is little his group can accomplish by campaigning on the Davidson campus, although Martin will speak here later
this month. Most students are out-of-staters and only a handful of students come from Martin's 9th district. "Most just aren't
interested," said Morton; however, he encourages students to support and work for the Martin candidacy even if they can't vote
for him. "Students interested in the Republican ticket should work for a Martin victory to increase the Republican representation in
Congress," he said.

(Staff photo by Davis) Supporters display paraphernalia at debate.
