Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR MARCH 17, 1972

Calendar Reconsidered

The proposed calendar for next year, approved by the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) last week, was greeted with an onslaught
of student complaints and anguished outcries. It seems that the FEC, in its efforts to avoid a split winter term,
has created a calendar rent with inconveniences.

First of all, students complain that the proposed late start, Sept. 21, would waste two weeks. Similar arguments were put
forth with regard to the late commencement date. Competition for summer jobs is keen, and many employers are accustomed to
hiring summer help in the last weeks of May. Consequently, Davidson students would be at a disadvantage in the tight
summer job market.

With only two days off for Thanksgiving, those students who lived out-of-state felt their time at home would be minimal,
and some who lived great distances said that it would be ridiculous for them even to try to travel home.
And most students could not believe that the FEC expected them to travel back to school after Christmas break on
Jan. 1.

While we understand the teaching difficulties inherent with a split winter term, we do not feel the situation unbearable. In
fact, many students believe that the split term allowed them to catch up on their work and in some cases
get ahead. They also feel that the break relieves the depressed student mood that traditionally accompanies winter term.

While no calendar will suit the preferences of everyone, we feel that this year's model with the inclusion of the
fall College Conference Recess represents a very desirable plan. We therefore hope the FEC will reconsider their decision for next
year’s calendar.

Honors College Reform

For most of its two years, the Honors College has been a mystery to Davidson students. It has been viewed
as a haven for the intellectual elite, a place to get into if you didn’t like studying, or just plain
ignored. Upon investigation, we have found that the Honors College is not simply a bastion of intellectual minds oblivious to
the outside world. It has emerged in quite a different light as a marvelous educational opportunity for all students.

But the Honors College is in trouble. Far from being a cohesive, stable fraternity of students and faculty, it is
suffering from internal dissent and outside obstruction.

The problems appear to be threefold. Firstly, the administration of the general college seems reluctant to back the Honors College
with the staff it needs. Because of this lack of staff, the Honors College cannot be expanded to include more
of the general college population. Many students have been turned down even when they presented good programs, because the Honors
College lacked the staff with sufficient expertise to advise the student. This has raised questions and resentment among students inside
and outside the college.

The faculty and staff of the Honors College itself cannot be absolved of responsibility for the state of the institution
either. There is no set admissions procedure, little publicizing of the program, and a general nebulous quality to the means
and goals of the college. Thirdly, some general college faculty members are not accepting the Honors College and discriminate against
Honors College students who take their courses. We view this as totally inexcusable.

It is no easier to prescribe a cure than it is to define the ills. Generally, there seems to be
a need for more definition of expectations on the part of the Honors College faculty and more effort on their
part to involve the Honors College with the general college. The difference between the departmental honors program and the Honors
College program needs to be clarified and a sense of community among the Honors College members themselves needs to be
fostered.

To help involve more students in the program, the general college needs to be willing to back a full-scale Honors
College program, and this will require more part-time professors. We feel that the Honors College is a viable and valuable
institution and should be continued. It seems that there must be better publicity and understanding of the Honors College, and
this can only be brought about with the cooperation of all who have an interest in it: faculty, students, and
administration.

The Honors College is almost two years old and is not an established institution by any means. We hope that
the entire college community will take an interest in the experimental college, and that the Honors College itself will launch
into the task of clearing up the questions behind its own existence and development.

ALAN BARAGONA

Mott The Wopple’s Exploits: “The Downfall Of Castle Pinky”

What puzzled us most was that nobody had noticed them, these ruins, though they stood high and ragged in plain
view of daydwellers. Only we of the afternight, however, had stumbled upon them, where they had lain all these centuries.
It was 4 a.m., that central hour when everything of import takes place on the postnight campus, and I was
thumbing through faded copies of “The Republic” and “Utopia” when a pirate ship appeared on the horizon, a shot rang
out, a maid screamed, and Katamite Kayrat burst into the room with Senator Rowland (sic) straggling not far behind.

However anticlimactic, the two approached with characteristic urgency. “Thou wilt save the humble people, O Lord, and wilt bring down
the eyes of the proud!” the Senator shrieked. Well, that seemed just to me, all in all, but I didn’t
quite get the gist of what was going on and told them, whereupon Kayrat explained about the ruins. He and
the Senator had that night been stalking the elusive Grimbird, a nocturnal fowl that oozes grease in flight and can
be caught only with a sieve and a sponge. In mid-hunt, they had come upon the crumbled ruins of a
lost civilization, in which the dreaded Cockasnookhad temporarily nested. The three of us rushed to the spot, magnificent in its
desolation. The Cockasnook stood guard above the remains: crumbling pillars; broken walkways; termite-ridden cherrywood furniture; the bulky carcass of an
IBM electric typewriter wrapped in heavy chains and locks; and a pair of single beds, still made, as if they
had never been used. At first, we were at a loss to explain the discovery, and then the Cockasnook suggested
we find someone who might have survived the Time of Devastation, someone, in other words, who has sat through it
all. Numb Elroy stared dully at first, trying to call up memories of the old days. Numb Elroy has sat
passively a long time at his vantage point on the campus fountain and remembers a good deal about the worlds
that have passed him by. Soon he began to speak in a soporific murmur. “Many years have passed in the
forgotten Kingdom of Davoidson since the fall of Castle Pinky. Lord Pinky Greyskin, called ‘The Helpful,’ had handed down to
his sons a castle strong in armaments and rich in soldiery. So formidable was the stronghold that the vassals left
off with the old ways, turned to their affairs, and prospered. But it came to pass that the progeny of
Lord Pinky begrudged the people their freedom and sought to chain them by giving them petty rewards, tin medals and
lollipops, and to glean bits of prestige from their work. In this way, the strength of the fortress soon became
a fiction. In the starlit afternight, these fragments of ancient endeavor spoke in whispers that gave credence to Numb Elroy’s
story. Was it indeed possible that a society that claimed to be so advanced could simply fade out like that?
As I stood amid the debris, the 5 o’clock special barreled through the town with a force that shook the
foundations of the remains. A mound of rubble collapsed to reveal a mote of paper on which was written, ‘The
elite lifestyle of Castle Pinky is a romance and roses existence never to be forgotten by the inhabitants of the
halcyon days this side of Paradise!’ Nothing beside remains. Round the decay of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare, the
lone and level sands stretch far away. Some knew what was happening, a few of the kerns and even an
earl, but nothing changed. As the years passed, the people all but ceased to reproduce: the old ones died; the
rulers exiled the young ones, having judged them too anemic to serve the good of the castle and sentenced them
to smother in the stifling air outside the walls. Then Southern hordes came out of the desert, bringing the end
in their wake.” Senator Rowland (Sikh) and the others were quite taken with Elroy’s little yarn, though I couldn't see
much in it beyond a certain medieval flair. They all ran off in a frenzy screaming “Prepare ye the way
of the Lord” and other such earthy old-time-religion stuff. When they had disappeared into the darkness, I returned to the
ruins.

Outside Perspective
By LEX VEAZEY

“Reluctant” Students Don’t Belong in College

Colleges and universities should be relieved of responsibility for “reluctant” students who enroll because they have nothing better to do,
says Alan Pifer, president of the Carnegie Corporation of New York. Speaking recently in his foundation’s annual report, Pifer said
that trying to serve such students is “clearly at odds with many of higher education’s other functions.” Calling on the
nation to create new job opportunities and new low-cost ‘national service’ programs that would appeal to those students, Pifer admitted
that there would be problems in creating these jobs and programs to be in lieu of the college experience. He
commented that the new programs would have to be at least as productive to society, as useful to the individual,
and no more costly than going to college.

Army ROTC Goes Coed

The United States Army has decided to admit women to its Reserve Officer Training Corps programs. “A test program will
begin this fall with women enrolling in approximately 10 institutions currently offering the four-year ROTC program,” an Army spokesman stated.
It was only a few weeks ago that the Navy ROTC made the decision to go coed. The Air Force
has admitted women in its ROTC programs for two years.

Ole Miss Coalition Wants Coke Boycott

The Coalition for Progress at Mississippi State University has recommended that students boycott the campus Coca-Cola machines. According to Coalition
leader John Gautier, the boycott is to protest the use of disposable bottles by the Coca-Cola Company. Stating that the
bottles create “a problem of ecology,” Gautier feels that they are the major source of litter on the Ole Miss
campus. Gautier declared that the Coke boycott was not for the purpose of intentionally hurting the company, but only to
emphasize the need for cutting down on the amount of campus litter. He urged that the students discontinue use of
the machine until the Coca-Cola Company installs returnable bottles.

Yale Introduces Tuition Pay Postponement

A total of 1,257 Yale students have signed contracts under the new Tuition Postponement Option which permits them to finance
the cost of their education after graduation. This plan has caused widespread interest in the educational community. Over 120 colleges
and universities have contacted Yale to learn more about the Tuition Postponement Option. According to the Yale plan, each individual’s
obligation rises and falls with his income rather than being a fixed indebtedness. Each group of students leaving Yale will
have their obligations terminated when the group as a whole has repaid its amount postponed with interest.
