The Davidsonian
April 14, 1972
Page Seven

Scott To Trim 1972-73 Athletic Budget
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The athletic budget for next year is presently being worked out, and will differ only slightly from this year’s budget.
Director of Athletics Tom Scott has already submitted a preliminary budget, reportedly requesting about $370,000 total, and that budget has
been returned by College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Spencer, along with Vice Presidents John M. Bevan and C. Grier
Cornell, requested that the budget be cut to $340,000.

The biggest change in the next year’s budget is the allocation for inflation of costs. Spencer and Bevan told the
Athletic Department that the minor sport budgets cannot be cut. “We felt that the minor sports should be left alone,”
Spencer stated. “They operate on a bare minimum now.”

Scott said the raise in the budget had been requested to account for inflation next year. “We have been informed
by the food services that the costs of meals will go up next year, and the cost of the laundry
is going up also,” he said. “This means that the costs necessary to run a training table and provide for
visiting teams will go up,” he added.

These rising costs will hurt the minor sports much more than either football or basketball. Minor sport budgets are almost
entirely concerned with travel and the costs of hosting other teams. The agreement worked out with Terry Holland, basketball coach
for the Wildcats, will also limit the amount of cutting Scott can do in the budget. The terms of Holland's
new agreement with the college commit Davidson to a “top twenty” basketball program, according to Spencer, and limit the amount
of cutting that can be done on the basketball budget. “We have agreed with Coach Holland that the program should
be a strong one, and we decided to raise his recruiting and promotion budgets.”

The budget is presently awaiting revision by the Athletic Department. “We have recommended an across-the-board cut,” Spencer said, “and we
leave it up to the Department to decide where the cuts will come.”

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

The 13th annual Davidson Relays will be held tomorrow at Richardson Stadium, and Wildcat track Coach Heath Whittle is retiring
at the end of this season. “We have two alternatives in replacing Coach Whittle,” Director of Athletics Tom Scott stated.
“We can either move Sterling Martin into physical education full-time and hire a track coach, or make Martin track coach
and hire someone to assist in physical education.”

Holland To Remain As Cat Cage Coach

Davidson will be without the services of two present coaches next year, but Terry Holland, coach of the Davidson basketball
team, will remain. Holland negotiated a new “agreement” with the college this week. Late last week, Holland received an offer
for the head coaching position for the Wake Forest cagers. He was chosen as one of the three final candidates
for the job vacated by Jack McCloskey last month. Holland turned down the position at Wake Forest Wednesday night.

Part of the new agreement with the college is what President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. called a “commitment to a
top-twenty team.” Spencer said that the basketball program will receive a raise in both recruiting and promotional budgets starting next
year. “We feel that the program has not been promoted as well as it should be,” Spencer said, “and attendance
figures at the Coliseum point this out.” Spencer said that the new promotional money would be “money sent after money”
and repay the college in game receipts. One facet of the promotion would be through a new television program for
Holland on local stations, according to Spencer. Spencer said that the basketball recruiting budget would also be beefed up in
an effort to continue to draw top players to Davidson.

Two other coaches will not be at Davidson next year, however, and as yet no replacements have been found for
either track coach Heath Whittle or baseball coach Tom Stevens. Whittle is retiring at the end of this season. “We
have two alternatives in replacing Coach Whittle,” Director of Athletics Tom Scott stated. “We can either move Sterling Martin into
physical education full-time and hire a track coach, or make Martin track coach and hire someone to assist in physical
education.”"fill in P.E." Scott said no decision has been made. Tom Stevens, baseball, freshman football, and swimming coach, will take
a year’s leave of absence to get his doctorate next year. Scott said that no new coach would be brought
in to fill his positions, but that they would be covered by the present staff. Spencer said that this approach
is used in every department but that the Athletic Department has a unique position because "they have such a large
budget with so many line items."

"I imagine that they can make a good number of cuts in operating expenses," he added, "but we leave all
the cutting in the budget to Dr. Scott." The budget should be finalized "during the next few weeks," according to
Scott. (Staff photos by Rodriguez)

Exchange student Helmut Bernhardt crosses the bar in the high jump.

Thinclads Favored In Relays

Whittle lists his own squad among the favorites in the event. "This should be a really interesting meet, and I
would rank us as one of the favorites along with West Georgia, Cumberland, High Point, and Berry," Whittle observed. Other
schools participating are Carson-Newman, Guilford, Catawba, Appalachian, Emory, Milligan, Gardner-Webb, and University of the South. The meet will crown a
new champion, as last year’s winner Pembroke was not invited to return because of their heavy subsidization.

"We designed the meet primarily for non-subsidized schools, and we try to keep the field evenly balanced. This year there
is no clear-cut favorite," explained Whittle. The Wildcats have taken the title six times, the last time in 1968. As
usual, Whittle looks for versatile Ray Swetenburg to be one of the top individual stars. "Ray definitely can win the
120-yd. high hurdles, which is a new event, and possibly the triple jump," commented Whittle. Swetenburg captured second place in
the triple jump last year, and holds the meet record of 47-8 which he achieved in 1970.

Another new event is the 100-yd. dash, and Whittle predicted that Wildcat sprinter Tom Richardson would face very stiff competition.
Whittle anticipates a good showing by the Cat relay teams, noting that "they all have a chance to place." These
participants include Swetenburg, Mark Connors, Dave Peaco, and Richardson in the 440-yard relay; Connors, Rick Bell, Richardson, and Richard Fort
in the mile relay; Richardson, Swetenburg, Fort, and Bell in the sprint medley; Richardson, Swetenburg, Peaco, and Steve Still in
the 880-yard relay; and Connors, George Edwards, Bob Lautensack, and Bell in the 2-mile relay.

Other thinclads counted on for points by Whittle are Woody Van Meter in the pole vault, Steve Shankweiler in the
shot put, and Dave Crumpler in the discus. Crumpler garnered a fourth-place finish in last year’s competition. The tracksters enter
the Relays following a disappointing 81-64 loss to Berry College last Saturday. Whittle described that contest as one which could
have gone either way, noting that "we did well in many events, but in others we weren't up to par."
The defeat marked the first time that Swetenburg had been beaten in the triple jump in a dual competition, according
to Whittle. Also hurting the thinclads’ performance was the absence of Glenn Mee, who could have placed in the shot
put and the javelin. Mee arrived at the meet late, and his presence was sorely missed, stated Whittle.

Whittle pointed to Ted Ellett as a thinclad who showed promise in the meet. "He did very well by winning
the 440-yd. intermediate hurdles," noted Whittle. In last year’s Relays, the Cats failed to score in the running events, and
Whittle expects much improvement tomorrow. The strongest opposition should be provided by High Point, Berry, and Cumberland in the distance
events, and West Georgia, Berry, and Cumberland in the sprints. The scoring will operate on a 10-8-6-4-2 point scale for
the relays, and a 6-4-3-2-1 scale in the field events and open running events. The Relays will get underway at
noon with the 6-mile run, another new event, and will conclude with the 2-mile relay, scheduled for 5 p.m.

UP, UP AND AWAY

Tom Case strains into the broad jump pit.
