Page Two March 31, 1972

She Davidsonian (Staff photos by Barnes)

LECTURER TURNS LISTENER
Haggai worships with the Davidson Christian Fellowship.

Cornell Delivers Statement On 1972-73 Budget Plans
By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

This week's SGA senate meeting was devoted primarily to a presentation by Vice President of Finance and Development C. David
Cornell on the operating budget for the 1972-73 fiscal year. The $5.894 million budget represents a 2.65 per cent increase
over that of last year. The sum was arrived at in a series of meetings of various committees within the
Budget Building & Grounds Committee (BBGC) chaired by Cornell, the last of which was held in March.

The sources of this money on which the college will operate next year can be broken down as follows: income
from students 41 per cent, endowment 1.5 per cent, trusts 8.9 per cent, gifts and grants (projected) 11 per cent,
auxiliary income 20.4 per cent, and gifts for student aid will constitute 6.7 per cent of the 1972-73 income. Cornell
reported that this will involve a $225 increase in student tuition next year, putting the total cost at approximately $3,390.
Cornell felt that this figure will place the college on an even par with Davidson's stiffest private school competition, both
in the South and in the Northeast.

Also this week, in regard to a presentation on March 14 by former SGA President Denny Clodfelter, urging senate members
to consider a possible participation in the National Student Lobby (NSL), the SGA appropriated $50 to bring a representative of
the organization to Davidson in mid-April.

The senate also gave its attention to Junior Senator Bill Meier who delivered a report concerning recent attempts of the
SGA to place student representation on the BBGC. It was discovered by Meier that the proposal of such student representation
would require three readings by the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) which in all probability would be circulated on March 21.
Upon Meier's

Haggai Delivers Speeches in Christian Lecture Series
By ALAN FORD
Staff Writer

Dr. Haggai is the founder of Evangelism International, an organization devoted to “providing specialized training in the how of evangelization
to key leaders of the non-Western, non-white world from those areas where missionaries can no longer go.” The first lecture
was given on Monday night at 8 p.m. in the Morrison Room. The topic of the lecture was "In Christ
There Is No East or West." Haggai stated that Jesus Christ was sent by God, and in the same way
we are sent by Him to preach to, to communicate to, and to save the lost. He added that a
person's commitment to God should be a real and passionate belief, not merely an intellectual approach.

A basis for world outreach exists, said Haggai, for two reasons: 1) Jesus has commanded us to preach to all
the world; 2) an enlightened self-interest as Christians and Americans. Haggai finished his first lecture by stating that it is
“time to take Jesus directly from Jerusalem to the point of action instead of routing Him through Western Europe and
America.”

Tuesday's lecture, entitled “Jesus Christ Super—What,” dealt with the fact that Christ is the only qualified religious leader who can
meet man in the totality of his need. “Overwhelming evidence concludes that Christ was more than man: He was God,”
stated Haggai. Some of the evidence given was the promises of a seed to Abraham which lasted for 42 generations,
a promise given when Abraham was 100 and Sarah, his wife, was 90. Also listed as evidence was the miraculous
prophecy given naming Bethlehem as the birthplace of Jesus over 700 years in advance. Haggai further stated that Christ is
the only religious leader to have ever walked away from his own tomb.

Davidsonian Staff
Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

News Editor:
TOM AINSWORTH

Photography Editor:
BILL BARNES

Assistant Managing Editors:
BILL GIDUZ
BOB HOWELL
THOM NICOLL
MIKE TANNER

Copy Editors:
BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY

Assistant Business Managers:
RICHARD ROMEYN
RICH SMITH
PHIL STIKES

Assistant Sports Editors:
HOWARD BOYD
CHARLIE TERRELL

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
ROBERT TOUCHTUN
GRAY WILSON

Contributing Editors:
PHIL BISHOP
TOM BRUCE
TODD EADES
JIM HANNA

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKOM
KEVIN BRODE
PAUL MITCHELL

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
TODD EADES
JOE RODRIGUEZ
BOB STRAND

Circulation:
ROBERT GATES
GREG MITCHELL

Contributors this week:
David Arant, Alan Ford, Bruce Maloy, David Melton, Jim Richardson, Richard Romeyn, and Tom Soos.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.suggestion. The SGA
postponed action along this line until the fall of 1972. At this point, the Special Senate Committee on Campus Security,
chaired by Mitch Furvis, reported on the results of a campus security questionnaire that was circulated on March 21. Of
the 800 questionnaires distributed, 115 replies were received by the committee, 4 of which indicated incidences of either theft or
encounter. Nearly half of the replies expressed a belief that the security problem is a serious one at this point
and many offered suggestions to improve the situation.

The questionnaire also bore out the fact that the overwhelming majority of theft incidences on campus occur in the dormitories
and to a lesser degree, in the parking areas. So far this year, $41 worth of merchandise has been stolen
on the campus. As mentioned earlier, many replies to the questionnaire offered suggestions which might serve to alleviate the problem.
Among these are the placing of the campus off-limits to outsiders, an enlarged security force, student patrols, increased lighting, the
locking of dorms during vacations, and increasing encouragement of students to better secure valuables.

FEC Changes New Academic Calendar

The Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) met this week and decided to adjust next year’s calendar so that the first day
of classes for the winter term will be Jan. 3 instead of Jan. 2, according to College President Samuel R.
Spencer Jr. The committee’s action was in response to a recommendation submitted by Freshman Senator Vince Rabil. Student opposition to
the Jan. 2 starting date, based on the dangerous travel conditions of the New Year's weekend, prompted Rabil to appeal
to the SGA Senate and from there, with the Senate’s endorsement, to the FEC. Rabil’s plan called for a second
extra Saturday class to be added later in the term, but the committee approved another solution.

“The science departments are not in favor of Saturday classes,” explained Spencer, “because of the difficulty in scheduling lab periods
then. We decided to add the day to the end of the term, which will now end on Friday, March
9 rather than Thursday, March 8.” Although amending the winter term starting date was the only definite action taken by
the committee this week, Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan expressed his desire that the whole calendar be
reconsidered next year.

Student Input Needed (Continued From Page 1)

It is argued that students should not be allowed a meaningful role in governance since students, they say, cannot keep
matters confidential. It is true there are cases where students have not been able to keep their mouth shut, but
historical observation clearly demonstrates that faculty members as well as administrators are just as guilty of this failing and in
many cases have violated confidence more often than students have. Students cannot become responsible unless they are entrusted with responsibility
to begin with. The only way students are going to grow is if they are continually challenged to bear the
burden of responsibility.

Students should have a meaningful role in governance in order that they too may contribute to the college. Their frustrations
with the institution might subside once they realize how the college works. Students don’t want to run the school. They
have neither the time, the patience nor the experience to do so. But as members of the college community, they
are entitled to meaningful input in the governance of the college. Governance should not be a contest between constituencies, but
rather it should be an endeavor in which these groups creatively search for new ways to achieve the goals of
the college. Students do have a contribution to make and students have a right to meaningful input in college governance
at Davidson.

Football Report Criticism (Continued From Page 1)

“We would still be running a first-class program, with no cutbacks in coaches’ salaries for example. The costs for coaching
and recruitment would be about the same,” he said. As to his personal opinion of subsidized football, Bevan stated, “I
believe in subsidized football if the institution can afford it and it is included in the goals and aspirations of
the college. Football is an auxiliary enterprise. It has nothing to do with the academic curriculum. It is mostly P.R.,"
Bevan said. Cornell noted that “I am completely open on the question. My only concern is whether with 52 scholarships,
we can still win the Southern Conference.” With regard to the Committee Report, SGA President Ralph Peeples noted that although
the committee made no recommendation on the question of subsidized football, they did an admirable job.
