FEC Ratifies Calendar With Unbroken Term

By THOM NICOLL
Asst. Managing Editor

Scrapping a tentative calendar for 1972-73 which scheduled classes on January 1 and which would again split the winter term
with the Christmas recess, the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) approved Wednesday a plan by which the winter term will begin
after Christmas on January 2.

The revised calendar, formulated by John M. Bevan, vice president for academic affairs, will delay the opening of the fall
term until Sept. 21 rather than Sept. 6 as had been planned. Commencement will be held on June 3 rather
than on May 20. Next year’s Christmas break will begin on December 9 and classes will not resume until the
winter term starts on January 2.

Bevan pointed to a new feature of the calendar, the College Conference Recess, which will occur on Oct. 26 and
27 after five weeks of the fall term. The two days are especially intended for students to talk at length
with their advisors and professors. “This will allow us to do more of the type of thing that a small
college should be doing, especially for the freshmen. It will also give more breathing time during the first term as
compared to the original plan,” Bevan explained.

The new calendar will include Thanksgiving holidays on Nov. 23 and 24. A week-long break is scheduled between the winter
and spring terms. Both the winter and spring terms will include one Saturday on which classes will be held so
that each term will contain exactly 50 class days.

Bevan surveyed the faculty for their reactions to the revisions and found that among those who responded, the revised plan
was favored 3 to 1. According to Bevan, an alternative plan would have been to start earlier and to schedule
five weeks of the winter term before and five weeks after the Christmas break. However, this would have rushed the
first part of the year for no real advantage, he explained.

Student reactions to the revisions were mixed. SGA President Ralph Peeples said that it was “not a bad plan.” He
disapproved of having to return on Jan. 1, but said that would be better than Dec. 31. Peeples said, “I
don’t see what’s so sacred about having 50 class days; that’s why classes are scheduled for Jan. 2. Traveling on
New Year’s Day can really be dangerous. I might come a day or two late myself.

“Not getting out until June 3 could be a disadvantage in terms of getting summer jobs. However, the long Christmas
break will be an advantage for getting jobs then.

“I don't think that a split term works anyway, and I think that the College Conference break is an excellent
idea.”

Freshman Steve Dodd said, “I like the kind of calendar we have now better. I don’t see how the split
term is such a disadvantage. Personally, the new plan will destroy a lot of my vacation plans. I can also
see a real disadvantage in getting summer jobs.”

SGA Vice President Bob Cunningham approved the new plan, saying, “I like this much better than the split term. I
also like being able to finish exams early in December and not having to start the new term until January.
This summer will really be good, since we get through in early May and won’t have to come back until
Sept. 21.”

Freshman Senator Bob Corlew said that he would prefer to start earlier and get out earlier. He also pointed out
that getting out later will mean increased competition for summer employment.

RHC Accepts Responsibility For Off-Campus Residence

By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

Dean of Students Will Terry, Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls, and the Student Life Committee (SLC), have transferred the
responsibility of selecting those students who will be permitted to live off-campus to the Residence Hall Committee (RHC), in an
effort to make the selection process impartial.

According to SGA vice president Bob Cunningham, the selection in the future will revolve solely around a set of priorities
newly established by the RHC, which will determine in what order students applying for off-campus housing privileges will be allowed
to follow through with their plans.

These priorities are as follows: 1) married students, 2) students with a medical or emotional problem, 3) students who have
the availability of rent-free housing, 4) students who have fallen behind their class, and 5) students who for some reason
will be gone for a portion of the academic year. Priority six includes seniors in no academic or disciplinary difficulty,
and priorities seven and eight follow likewise.

REYNOLDS LECTURER

George A. Miller, a psychologist from Rockefeller University, will be at Davidson, March 14-16, as a Reynolds Lecturer. He will
give two major addresses, “Beyond Freedom and Control” (Tuesday, March 14) and “The Evolution of Language” (Wednesday, March 15). Both
will be presented at 8:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.For members of the junior and sophomore classes respectively. Priorities one through
five are considered the major ones and any student qualifying under any of these will automatically be allowed to move
off campus. Those applicants not qualifying under any of the first five, beginning with the senior class and moving down
the ranks to the sophomore class, will be placed in a lottery in order to fill the remainder of the
off-campus spaces. Cunningham pointed out, however, that the RHC has nothing to say about the number of students who will
be living off-campus but rather, only who those students will be. The number of off-campus dwellers is determined every year
by subtracting the number of available dormitory places from the projected enrollment. "We won't be able to get everyone off
campus who would like to be but this new system does further student involvement and provides impartial selection,” Cunningham said.
Will Terry expressed definite approval of the transfer of responsibility. "It’s my conviction that students should be permitted to handle
matters of this kind as often as possible. The RHC expressed a willingness and desire to handle off-campus housing. "We
have gone over together the criteria and procedure for off-campus housing and they seem to be dealing with the matter
in a business-like and thorough fashion,” he continued. “It is my hope that students will respond to this positively and
will continue to deal with the matter fairly."

The Davidsonian
March 10, 1972
Page Three

(Staff photo by Rodriguez)

BACK AGAIN
Former Davidson professor John Fuller addresses Symposium.

Symposium Staged For Asian Problems
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Staff Writer

The changing balance of power in Asia was the topic discussed in a symposium Wednesday evening. Professors Fredrick Gage and
William Jackson, who organized the forum, feel that there is “the need for the Davidson community to be informed concerning
the shifting roles of the major powers in Asia.” The first speaker, Dr. Thomas Robinson of the Council on Foreign
Relations began the discussion with observations on “China’s Relationship to the Rest of Asia.” In discussing the recent trip of
President Nixon to The People’s Republic of China, Robinson concluded that agreements reached during talks there will cause a shift
in the power structure in Asia. In his opinion, the so-called “Shanghai Communique” marks the beginning of a “protoalliance” between
the United States and China. This along with other factors could cause an “understanding” between the other powers in Asia,
Japan and the USSR. Robinson foresees that the interaction of the four powers will create a balance of power in
Asia which he feels would be the most stable form of alignment. Robinson concluded that the agreements reached by the
United States and China will perpetuate an era of peaceful coexistence between the two countries. However, he expressed concern that
US-China relations might deteriorate with the death of Mao, causing a power shift in favor of the Soviet Union. Other
speakers at the symposium were Dr. George Williams of Notre Dame University, speaking on the role of the Soviet Union
in Asia, and former Davidson professor Dr. John Fuller, who spoke on the role of the United States in the
area.

Accelerated Program Allows Students To Graduate Early
By BRUCE MALOY
Staff Writer

This Tuesday, College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., said the Program for Acceleration which was recommended by the Educational Policy
Committee (EPC) has been approved by the faculty and is now in effect. This program allows students who meet the
requirements to get a degree in three years and one summer by taking four courses per term. Vice President of
Academic Affairs John Bevan pointed out that the unique aspect of this program is that there is no extra charge
for the fourth course as there was previously. “This means that a student can get a four-year education at three-year
prices,” stated Bevan. When asked if this program points to a trend in higher education, Bevan replied, “In the fifties
and sixties there was a movement toward three-year graduation as the result of increasing enrollment and economic problems. The most
popular three-year degree program was the trimester or summer semester plan. “This system never was very effective for a variety
of reasons,” Bevan continued. “It increased costs, the poorer students tended to go to the summer semester; and the draft
caused many people to increase rather than decrease their time in college.” Bevan went on to say that no more
than five per cent of any class will be allowed to accelerate at first in order to prevent a financial
crisis caused by a decline in the number of students. He added that once it is clear that the admissions
can keep pace with the students graduating early that this limit will probably be modified. Students desiring to accelerate must
have maintained a 3.0 average for each of the two preceding terms and must have the consent of the Curriculum
Requirements Committee.
