The Davidsonian
January 21, 1972
Page Seven

Second Best Freshman Team Vanishes
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

The 1968-69 edition of the Wildcat freshman basketball team posted a 17-2 record, second best in the history of the school. What has happened to the players on that team since then would make excellent material for a novel, or at least a soap opera. Of the thirteen members of that team, only one is now on the varsity.

The squad included four scholarship men, who were billed as the players “expected to make Davidson basketball go for the next four years” in 1968. Bryan Adrian, Doug Hill, Eric Minkin, and Lester Strong were the big guns, the best bets for niches on the varsity. However, a curious combination of events has left Minkin as the only survivor.

Take the case of Doug Hill for example. A two-time all-State selection in Ohio as a high school player, Hill was recruited as the man to fill the shoes of graduating Dave Moser, point man par excellence. Hill performed quite capably for the freshmen, hitting at an 11.0 clip and improving his defense with each game. However, he was disenchanted with Davidson and ran into academic difficulty. His prospects for replacing Moser were complicated by the improvement of Ron Stelzer at the point position, and Hill appeared destined for a back-up spot. After one term of his sophomore year, Hill transferred to nearby Lenoir-Rhyne. A starter most of last year for the Bears, Hill was hit by injury trouble and his playing time decreased. Quite a comedown for the lonely, intense Hill, who never became the point man he was groomed to be.

The career of Bryan Adrian has left many questions unanswered and many hopes unfulfilled. As a Wildkitten, Adrian set a record for the highest average in school history with a 28.7 mark. In the process, he scored 30 or more points ten times. Clearly, Adrian’s role was that of a scorer. He eventually became the point man his sophomore year and had a super season. The injury jinx struck Adrian prior to last season, and he was not able to maneuver as well as before. The knee is still a big question mark as far as Wildcat fans are concerned, but he refused to comment about its condition.

Lester Strong is another of the scholarship players who is absent from the team this year. Strong demonstrated immense potential as a freshman, averaging 10.9 points a game and gathering in almost an equal amount of rebounds. Strong described his experience as a freshman player in terms of illusions of grandeur. “I felt that I had really hit the big time here, and I was playing regularly and contributing to the team,” he stated. He also remembers the times of trying to study on bus trips and falling asleep, and of signing autographs for the first time. After two seasons on the varsity in which he saw only spot play, Strong decided to devote his time to work in the admissions office.

‘Cats Whirl Past SC Teams
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The past week has been one of relatively easy but important wins for the Davidson cagers. The Wildcats waded through VMI last Tuesday 73-57, and easily trounced Richmond last Saturday, improving their Southern Conference record to 6-2 to move into a tie for the conference lead with Furman. But the easy part of the schedule appears to be coming to an end. Tomorrow night the cagers meet West Virginia in Charlotte, a team that beat Davidson on the road two weeks ago. At Morgantown, the ‘Cats led by five with six minutes remaining, and then hit a cold streak that cost them the game.

The Richmond game played here last week appeared to be something of a party for everyone. Richmond offered little resistance to the Wildcats who whirled by the Spiders 112-80. Everyone on the team got in the game, with the last man off the bench getting in over eight minutes playing time. No starter played more than 23 minutes.

VMI offered more resistance in Lexington. The Keydets threatened the ‘Cats’ lead several times during the game, but Davidson finally walked away with a 73-57 win. Scoring was fairly evenly spread in both games, and Joe Sutter and John Falconi returned to their former marks after slack games against Pitt and West Virginia. The almost forgotten men have been doing well in their past few games, raising their season averages.Record to 7-1. The Wildkittens have won their last seven straight games after an opening loss to Clemson, their latest being an 87-67 win over VMI last Tuesday. The team has scored over 100 points in four of their seven wins. Larry Horowitz, Greg Dunn, and Sheldon Parker have all proved to be strong board and scoring threats for the freshmen.

Horowitz leads the team in scoring with a 23-point average and in rebounding with 11 a game. Eric Minkin turned out to be a pleasant surprise on the freshman team, averaging 18.1 points a game and snagging a school record 29 rebounds against Furman. Minkin was plagued by inconsistency his sophomore season and then had to shake off a hip injury last year. He was not really able to contribute much until this year. He has always seemed to perform at his best against tougher opponents. During the freshman season, he humbled Paul Coder of N.C. State and Tom Riker of South Carolina and has turned in creditable games against them since then. Minkin’s attitude seems better this year, and as the only senior, he is assuming an added role of leadership quite capably.

The other starter was non-scholarship man Frank Clark, who made up in hustle what he lacked in muscle and talent. He earned a spot on the varsity his sophomore season but saw sparse action. The substitutes provide ample material for anecdotes and insights not offered by the starters. Coach Holland noted that it is really a mistake not to recruit subs, or at least a certain type of player who will sit patiently on the bench not knowing when he will be called upon. It is a hard position to accept.

John Porter served as the top guard substitute for Hill, and he recalls that he was “surprised to make the team in the first place.” Gary Scibal was a reserve forward, and he remembers the freshman-varsity scrimmage in which he had the unenviable task of guarding Doug Cook. The score was 99-44, and the freshmen had a long night. Scibal was called for three quick fouls, and needless to say, Cook went wild. Scibal also recounts the way that the coaches would psyche Minkin up before going into games against every junior college with a threatening 6’5” center. He remembers playing against Ed Leftwich of N.C. State, a high school foe who had ‘Sky King’ written on his shoes.

Nicknames were abundant on the squad, and most of them were coined by reserve Tim Groom, who played in five games before leaving the team. Clark was called “Stick,” Hill was “Monk,” guard Bill Barnhill became “Stump,” Greg Sikes was “Lizard,” Bob Peele was simply “H,” Paul Nelson was “Fox,” and Nick Livengood was the infamous “Pear Body.” Old subs never die; they just go on to become stars in IMAC basketball. Clark, Porter, Barnhill, Livengood, Scibal, Peele, and Sikes have all devoted their energies to this sport, making life miserable for those who have played against them.

Another person connected with the squad was manager Mike O’Malley. “Big O” tells the story of Peele betting Adrian that Brian’s man would score at least 18 points during the game, only to find that Adrian would be switched to another man at halftime so that Peele could not collect. Holland’s assistants were Jerry Conboy and Jim Hyder. Conboy was a Jekyll and Hyde type of coach, who became a tiger once the game began. Hyder was nicknamed “Whack” after the Georgia Tech mentor and was notorious for showing up at practice without a whistle. He would resort to making a “brrrrrpppp” sound with his tongue and lips, but the high-pitched noise would have little effect on the players.

Perhaps Holland's funniest moment occurred when he was forced to start Livengood against South Carolina because Clark and Scibal were sick. The Pear was understandably nervous, and after missing several of his “flying pear” shots, he held his man to 28 points. So, the freshman team of four years ago produced a record which surprised the coaching staff and many students. The circumstances which have befallen Adrian, Hill, and Strong could not have been anticipated then. At least it’s good to think what might have been.

GALLEY FISH CAMP
Fresh Fish-Steaks
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

Whatever you want, we’ve got
ARMY - NAVY STORE
Boots—Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes—War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Field Jackets — P. Coats
Bell Bottom Jeans
170 N. Main
Mooresville, N.C.