Page Twelve May 5, 1972 The Davidsonian

Up ’n ’ Coming

Friday, May 5
all next week
Student Art Show
Stowe Gallery
11 a.m.
Film: "Black History: Lost, Stolen or Strayed"
Perkins Auditorium
8 p.m.
Hungry I: Felix Kroll
Union Bar

Saturday, May 6
all day
TOWN DAY
all day
Religious Sculpture
Morrison Room
2 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Town Day Activities
Chambers Banquet Hall, Love Auditorium
Fine Arts Parking Lot
Morrison Room
5:30 p.m.
Town Day Dinner
8:30 p.m.
Town Day Dance

Sunday, May 7
4 p.m.
Wind Ensemble Concert
Fine Arts Quadrangle

Monday, May 8
all day
Drama Workshop VI: Original One-Act Play and Drama Awards
Hodson Hall

Tuesday, May 9
10 a.m.
Any Questions? Dr. Spencer
Morrison Room
6 p.m.
Athletic Banquet
Chambers Banquet Hall

Thursday, May 11
6 p.m.
Dinner for International Students
Carolina Inn

Pre-Medical Staff Initiates Simulated Interview Plan
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Staff Writer

“Along with a good grade point average, a good interview is one of the most important factors in gaining acceptance to med school,” said Pre-med Advisor James Fredericksen. In an effort to help pre-meds have better med school interviews, Fredericksen initiated the concept of the practice interview for junior pre-med majors. “We just can’t overlook something that might make a difference,” he said. “How a person handles himself in an interview is extremely important. It can make or break between 60 and 75 percent of the applicants.”

The practice interview attempts to simulate the atmosphere which an applicant would be likely to encounter in the actual med school session. Two faculty members and a senior who has already had a med school interview form each of the six interviewing committees. The interviewing committee notes each student's performance and at a later date will advise him of their evaluation in an effort to help him improve. The hope is that familiarity with the interviewing procedure will enable the student to relax. Adrian Eng, a senior on one of the committees said, “Not many do poorly on an interview if they are relaxed.”

Juniors who have been through the practice sessions feel that it should be a great help to them. “I'm sure that there will be a lot less pressure on me now when I go for my interview next fall,” said Mike Collins, “I'll have an idea of what to expect.” Fredericksen also feels the interviews are successful. “I think the idea is working out very well,” he said. “Experience is the important thing... they won’t be so apprehensive next time.”

Some of the questions asked were ethical, others personal. One student was asked his opinion of abortion, and many were asked why they wanted a career in the medical profession and what they planned to do if they didn’t get into med school. If the program is judged successful it may be expanded, Fredericksen indicated. Possibly Davidson alumni who are currently medical students or practicing physicians would be added to the interviewing teams.

SGA Seeks ‘Parking Authority’
By THOM NICHOLL
Asst. Managing Editor

The Senate met Tuesday night and took action to get the SGA into the business of parking regulations and out of funding social activities. After long and heated debate, the Senate approved a proposal for transferring parking regulations from the Physical Plant office to the Senate. The plan, still to be accepted by the business office and president, retains most regulations now in effect. One controversial change is the proposed raise of the cost of a parking permit.from $2 to $3. Student Body President Ralph Peeples said that he and Vice President of the Student Body Rob Cunningham had reservations about the raise, and indicated that strong student reaction could easily produce an amendment.

Senior Problems (Continued From Page 1)

One other has received a tuition scholarship to the University of Michigan Law School. Professor of Philosophy George L. Abernathy, former chairman of the Faculty Committee on Graduate Fellowships, said that Davidson graduates are having to settle for less prestigious graduate schools. In this year’s senior class, there are very few departmental graduate fellowships. Of the 66 students who applied to medical school this year, 36 have been accepted. Of these 66 applying, 52 are pre-med majors, and 32 out of the 36 accepted by medical schools are pre-med majors. Of these 10 seniors with other than a pre-med major, three were accepted to medical school. Four juniors applied to medical school and one was accepted. Additional seniors may be accepted by medical schools in the near future. Chairman of the Pre-Med Department James M. Fredericksen has suggested to those who are not accepted by medical schools to apply to dental schools.

The proposal was amended to delete provisions for a new fining system which detailed specific fines and involvement of the Dean of Students. Peeples admitted that the compromised plan did not exactly “thrill him,” but that it was a “step in the right direction.” He praised the work of the traffic committee, however. “The SGA had to get involved in parking because the present situation is a mess,” Peeples said.

Passing a bill to create a dorm social council, the Senate removed from itself and from the RHC control of social activity funding. Representatives to the council will be elected from each dorm within two weeks of the beginning of school, and will have sole authority for distributing SGA and RHC social funds. Peeples said that the move was part of an overall effort to “beef-up” the social life of the college. Other aspects involve the creation of the Patterson Court Council and reforms of the Union Board.

Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
Salads
Desserts
Beverages

“This is not meant to compete,” Peeples emphasized. Patterson Court in Price $1.95 Student Union Dining Room

ARE MORE CHALLENGING THAN OTHERS.

It’s graduation day and there you stand ... diploma in hand and future in doubt. You could go on to graduate school. Or you could look for a job in today’s ever-tightening job market. Or, you could put your education to work immediately by applying for the Air Force’s Officer Training School program. Upon qualification, you'll find yourself beginning 12 weeks of specialized study designed to prepare you for the challenge and responsibilities of an officer’s commission. And, give you the chance to go on to flight school to earn those famous silver wings as an Air Force pilot or navigator. OTS is your chance to break away from the crowd and be recognized. For all the facts, mail in the coupon. Or, call 800-631-1972 toll free. Remember, with an Air Force future, the sky’s no limit. * In New Jersey call 800-962-2803.

THE AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
DIRECTORATE OF ADVERTISING (RSAV)
RANDOLPH AIR FORCE BASE
TEXAS 78148

Please send me more information on Air Force OTS.

Name
Address
Date of Birth
Sex
City
County
State
Zip
Date of Graduation
School

I understand there is no obligation.

Find yourself in the Air Force.