Vol LXI No. Twenty-seven
The Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
May 5, 1972

Trustees Give Unanimous Approval For Immediate Acceptance
By RICH WILSON
Editor-in-Chief

The Davidson College Board of Trustees today unanimously approved the principle of co-education and directed the college president to proceed
with the implementation of the plan for coeducation recommended by the faculty. According to Board Chairman Warner L. Hall, the
trustees recognized the Report on Co-education as “a set of projections and possible goals rather than a detailed blueprint of
commitments.” The board also directed the president to report annually to the trustees on the progress of coeducation in relation
to the projections of the coeducation report. “The trustees could call a halt to coeducation in the future, if it
appears that the projections for coeducation cannot be met,” Hall said.

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said that letters to approximately 60 girls who had inquired about possible
enrollment in Davidson will be mailed next week. “We also will prepare materials to be sent to the 200 girls
on the lists which were compiled by the student government,” Bevan said. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said that
first preference will be given to junior transfer students for next year since they are older and are ready to
select a major and thus fit well in Davidson’s academic program.

In relation to the coeducation decision, the board also authorized the president to begin investigations as to the possibility of
receiving low-cost government loans to build more student housing. But the trustees stipulated that the loan was to be paid
off through room rents which would be collected in such facilities.

In further action, the trustees approved in principle the plan offered by the Davidson College Presbyterian Church by which a
“minister to students” will be secured for next year. Although details of the agreement between the college and the church
have not been worked out, the college would make a financial contribution to the salary of such a minister.

The trustees also authorized the Trustee Executive Committee to let a contract for the new library “within reasonable limits.” The
board also approved the $5,894,614 budget for next year. In accordance with the new trustee by-laws which were approved on
the second reading today, the board elected four men to fill the “at-large” positions. Hall, whose term ended this year,
was elected as an at-large member for four years. Walter Lingle, former board chairman, was elected to a three-year term.
Lunsford Richardson Jr., treasurer of Richardson-Merrell, was elected to a two-year term with the understanding that he may be re-elected
at the end of his term. Dean Rusk, former secretary of state and Davidson alumnus, was elected to a one-year
term with the understanding that he may be re-elected as well.

Three new trustees took their seats on the board today. William F. Long, Woodrow W. Seymour, and Joseph Morrison had
been elected from presbyteries. Tenure was granted to English Professors Charles L. Cornwell and Gill Holland, Economics Professor Randall R.
Kincaid, History Professor Malcolm O. Partin, and Spanish Professor Thomas A. Rogerson. Instructors Herbert Jackson, John Young, and Frank Jacobus
were promoted to assistant professor. Assistant professors Robert Avinger, Rubert Barber, and Nicholas Burnett were promoted to associate professors. Earl
R. MacCormac, Wilmer H. Welsh, and Hallam Walker were promoted to full professors.

By PHIL BISHOP and BILL GIDUZ
(This is the last installment of a three-part series on tenure and faculty evaluation.)

Efforts to alter tenure systems in the nation’s colleges and universities have led to a national uproar over how and
by whom faculty contracts are determined.

Seniors Encounter Problems In Admission To Grad School
By DOUG BROWN
Managing Editor

Generally, members of the Class of 1972 are finding it more difficult to gain entrance to graduate and professional schools,
according to a cross-section of department chairmen. The consensus of department chairmen is that the student with at least a
“B” average and fairly good Graduate Record Exam, Law School Aptitude Test, or Medical School Aptitude Test scores has a
good chance of going.on to earn a higher degree: This "better" student may not be able to attend the graduate
or professional school that is his first choice, but he is fortunate enough to at least be accepted someplace. The
"marginal" senior’s chances of getting into graduate or professional school this year were slim. Seniors with much less than a
3.0 grade point average and unspectacular graduate scores have not met with much success. However, the graduate school situation for
this year’s senior class is not as dismal as the rumors about campus would have it. Winfred P. Minter, chairman
of the political science department said, "The better students with higher grades and scores are being accepted. The marginal student
with a 2.5 grade point average and 400 law board or graduate record exam scores is having a problem." The
present trend among political science majors is to go to law school rather than graduate school. This year’s seniors who
have majored in history have done well, for of the 21 of the 26 majors who have responded to a
survey, 15 will be attending graduate or law schools. A department whose majors did better this year than last is
the English department. Department Chairman James S. Purcell said, "Everyone who applied has gotten in except one." He pointed out
that English majors were able to have some choice in the graduate schools they wanted to attend for the most
part. Of the 35 English majors, 20 are going on to graduate or professional schools. Purcell said, "The word probably
got around about the stiff competition, and marginal students probably decided not to apply." Some English majors had to settle
for regional schools, but according to Purcell, they were not the worst schools. Of the two philosophy majors, one will
be studying at Oxford on a Rhodes scholarship and (See SENIORS, Page 12)

Approval Of Coeds (Staff photo by Barnes)

MID-MEETING CONFERENCE Chairman Hall and President Spencer confer.

Stiffer Evaluation Needed For Tenure System Reform

Foremost in the debate is the controversial subject of collective bargaining by college faculties. Several national educational organizations, including the
American Association of University Professors (AAUP), the National Education Association, and the American Federation of Teachers are competing to be
bargaining agents for university faculties. The AAUP council recently proposed that "the association pursue collective bargaining as a major additional
way of realizing the association’s goals in higher education." The council’s resolution has caused fear among some members that collective
bargaining threatens the AAUP’s influence in matters of tenure and academic freedom. Although the proposal calls for certification of local
AAUP chapters as bargaining agents, the association does not plan to become a labor union, according to the council. The
growing influence of labor organizations among faculties is underlined by the Massachusetts Labor - University - Community Advisory Council, formed
by Harvard Professor and Nobel Prize Winner George Wald. The council is composed of labor union members, students, and faculty
from Massachusetts, and hopes "to increase cooperation between university, community, and labor organizations." Although Wald’s council is not designed to
bargain for faculties, it could become a powerful force behind faculty requests. The growth of collective bargaining and unionization is
only one new answer to the problem of tenure and faculty evaluation. Another method, mentioned by Davidson Vice President for
Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, is faculty contracts which must be renewed every five years. In such a system, new
faculty have the same rights and privileges as older professors, and evaluation coincides with contract renewal. Five-year contracts do not
guarantee job security but, in practice, they can provide the same job protection as tenure. Probably the least radical innovation
in faculty evaluation is Harvard's All-University Committee. The committee, which contains members from all elements of the University community, considers
all matters of tenure and major salary increases. With these kinds of solutions (See TENURE, Page 3)

THE DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication for the year with this issue. THE DAVIDSONIAN will resume publication on September 22 after the
summer vacation.
