The Davidsonian
October 6, 1972
Page Nine

Kickers Meet First S.C. Rival Tomorrow
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The game could decide their position in the Southern half of the Southern Conference with their Appalachian, according to coach
Harry Fogleman. The Appalachian game is the conference game for the Cats, and the only one they will play away
from home. Fogleman said he felt the game could decide the team's standing because they will have the home field
advantage in their later games against Furman and The Citadel.

The Appalachian game will be played on Astroturf, and this is the first time the team will have played on
an artificial surface. Fogleman pointed out the surface may hurt the team's play until they can adjust to the changes.

The kickers presently stand at 2-1 after slaughtering Pfeiffer at Davidson last Saturday and dropping a contest to Western Carolina
Tuesday. The 2-0 loss to Western Carolina was particularly disappointing because it pointed out the team's major weaknesses in defense,
according to team member Tom Tornee. “The middle of the field was wide open,” Fogleman said, “and we couldn't control
the game."

“Every year we have a bad game, it seems,” he added. “I hope that this was it.”

Both Tornee and Fogleman predicted some changes in the lineup.

'Robison Plays 110 Percent'
By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

If you have seen a Davidson soccer game within the past four years then you have seen Johnny Robison in
action. The 5-9, 175-pound senior inside can be seen almost anywhere on the field from the Davidson defensive lines to
the opponent's goal, hustling and keeping the other Cat kickers constantly on the move.

When Coach Harry Fogleman is asked to talk about Robison, his face seems to light up. “Johnny is an extremely
competitive player who puts out 110 percent on every play,” stated Fogleman. “Johnny has a fine knowledge of the game
and he's really tough in the penalty area. His only weakness seems to be that he tries so hard, for
so long that he tends to reinjure his already damaged knee. He just doesn't know when to come out,” said
Fogleman.

Fogleman also added that he confers with Johnny concerning various team problems. Fogleman’s respect for Robison is mirrored by his
teammates who elected him co-captain unanimously.

When Robison himself was asked about his abilities he simply said, “I don’t have the skills of someone like Tornee,
so I have to make it up by hustling.” This is the reason he spends so much time on the
ground or flying through the air. When asked about his weaknesses he mentioned trapping, or getting the ball under control
after a pass. However, teammate Bill Hawk replied, “Johnny has no weaknesses.”

Grid Club Meets Duke
By FORD NEWMAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Club Football team plans to open their season at Duke this weekend. “We have tentatively scheduled a
game this Saturday afternoon with the Duke Club Football team at Durham, North Carolina,” team member Bob Wetzel said. But
according to Wetzel, this game may be postponed due to problems with team organization and equipment shortage.

The team has had only one practice and the North Carolina Club Football Association (NCCFA) has not as yet come
up with the amount of equipment needed for the 24 players. Wetzel feels that the latter problem will only be
a temporary problem. He said that the equipment will probably be obtained from the NCCFA in the near future.

“If we don't play against Duke this weekend, our opening game will be held in Charlotte against Central Piedmont Community
College the weekend of October 14,” Wetzel added.mention that because of the late start he and the rest of the
team are relatively out of shape. When questioned about his feelings toward the student body, he said, “I was really
happy with the fan support at the last soccer game.” He also hopes that this will stimulate interest in the
spring soccer club, which is the training ground for many Davidson players. Robison is disappointed, however, in the treatment of
minor sports by the administration. Using soccer as an example, he felt that the budgets were too small. Such things
as the limiting of the soccer schedule from 14 to 12 games and the canceling of all overnight trips were
just a few examples of the snubbing by the administration. Robison views the future of the soccer team optimistically with
such upcoming freshmen as Tom Blackwood and Steve Tatum. Fogelman summed up how he feels about the contributions Robison has
made by saying, “I’d like to have 11 Johnny Robisons on my team.”

Positioning would be made later this week. “We are going to make some changes partially due to injuries and partially
to utilize our personnel better,” Fogleman said. He said that lineman Johnny Robison may be moved to halfback and exchange
student Rheinhart Pfeil moved to left inside, his usual position. Fogleman pointed out that other than the defensive problems, the
team played well at Western Carolina. He said the team did a good job of shutting out an exchange student
from Hong Kong who comprised much of Western Carolina’s attack. He also complimented the play of goalie Charlie Slagle, saying
he stopped two of Western's “sure goals.”

The team fared much better in their 8-1 defeat of Pfeiffer last Saturday. Scoring in that game was fairly evenly
divided, with Tornee hitting two, freshman Tom Blackwood kicking two, and Jack Linnard putting in two. Robert Stoubt and freshman
Bill Hawk each added one goal. Fogleman said the team has suffered from injuries after the past two games, including
fullback Donnie Bain who injured his leg in the Western Carolina game. After the Appalachian game, the team will return
to face Atlantic Coast Conference rival Duke next Tuesday. Duke handed the Cats their biggest loss last year 8-1.

Skippers Host Fall Regatta
By JOHN McELVEEN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Sailing Team will host the annual Davidson Invitational Fall Regatta tomorrow. All 10 of the colleges in the
South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association will participate in the regatta, which begins at 9 a.m. on Lake Norman.

Sailing in the A division for the Cats will be Daryl Douglas, Commodore of the team, as skipper with Doug
McElfresh as crew. In the B division, Frank Sommerville and Mark Leonard will skipper with Tracy Lucille Charles and Dave
Francis crewing. “Frank and Mark will be skippers,” Douglas said, “so that they can gain some valuable sailing experience.”

Douglas predicted that Tennessee, Clemson, and The Citadel would do well in the regatta. “Davidson should be able to do
considerably better in this regatta than we did in the past two regattas, for in this regatta we have a
‘home advantage’; we're familiar with both the boats and the lake,” he added.

In discussing last week's regatta at The Citadel, Douglas was quick to point out that Davidson's last place finish was
not indicative of the team's improvement. “Conditions of the Ashley River are quite different from those encountered at Lake Norman,
for not only do you have to contend with the wind, but also a strong current,” he said. “You must
realize that we're competing with people that have been sailing for several years. Consequently, we'll just have to practice harder
and longer,” he said.

Skipper Dennis Keeley leans high into the wind during sailing practice.
