Page Two March 24, 1972 The Davidsonian

SGA Report Suggests End To Football Aid

By DOUG BROWN
Managing Editor

The Student Government Association (SGA) Committee on Football has released its report, and it recommends that Davidson establish a non-subsidized
football program. Under the non-subsidized plan, no football grants-in-aid per se would be given, either through the college or the
Wildcat Club. All students, including those playing football, would then receive aid based on need through the Financial Aid Office.
However, basketball scholarships would continue.

The college would continue to pay for expenditures in excess of income for the operating budget, but non-subsidization would mean
that Davidson would probably have to leave the Southern Conference in football, while staying in for other sports. Non-subsidization would
mean that a new schedule with non-subsidized teams would have to be devised.

Under the present funding system, Davidson contributes a certain amount of money for use as football grants-in-aid (scholarships) to attract
football players to Davidson. Not all players receive these grants, and, as a rule, those who do receive no aid
from the Financial Aid Office. In addition to the scholarship money, the college also picks up the tab of expenditures
in excess of income for the program.

Davidson gives scholarships for football on a formula which takes the total amount of gift aid (scholarships and work-study that
the Financial Aid Office gives) for all students per year, and divides that total by the number of students receiving
that aid, this result being the average gift aid per student receiving aid. Only about 30 percent of Davidson students
receive gift aid, and for 1971-1972 the average scholarship is $900. According to the formula, this is multiplied by 52
to get the total amount of college contribution to grants-in-aid for football. Thus the college gave $47,000 this year.

The Wildcat Club was established to raise funds for football scholarships, and its goal is to raise at least $170,000
or the equivalent of 52 full scholarships. The Wildcat Club raised $83,000 in 1970 and the college was forced to
donate an extra $40,000 to maintain the scholarship level of previous years. In 1971 $107,000 was raised and the college
kicked in an added $15,000.

The Committee on Football considered increasing the subsidy to football, decreasing it, going to non-subsidization, and elimination of intercollegiate football.
It found the largest cost variable, except for the last, to be the amount of money given over to scholarships.
The non-subsidization plan was adopted because one of the benefits would be a net financial savings. The $47,000 college contribution
for scholarships would be eliminated. This would be partially offset by a $27,000 increase in financial aid based on need
for an anticipated additional 30 students who would qualify.

An alumni poll showed that non-subsidized football would cause 13.5 percent of the alumni to give more in unrestricted funds,
19.3 percent would give less, and 67.2 percent would not change their giving. A slight drop in giving initially could
be expected, but with time perhaps a return to the previous level would occur as time mellows any antagonism.

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors: DOUG BROWN, ALEC HOON
Sports Editor: JOE EARLE
News Editor: TOM AINSWORTH
Photography Editor: BILL BARNES
Assistant Managing Editors: BILL GIDUZ, BOB HOWELL, THOM NICOLL, MIKE TANNER
Copy Editors: BILL ELLETT, LEX VEAZEY
Assistant Business Managers: RICHARD ROMEYN, RICH SMITH, PHIL STIKES
Assistant Sports Editors: HOWARD BOYD, CHARLIE TERRELL
Associate Editors: ALAN BARAGONA, ROBERT TOUCHTON, GRAY WILSON
Contributing Editors: PHIL BISHOP, TOM BRUCE, TODD EADES, JIM HANNA
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKOM, KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL
Photographers: TOM CAMPBELL, DAVE DOTY, TODD EADES, JOE RODRIGUEZ, BOB STRAND
Circulation: ROBERT GATES, GREG MITCHELL
Contributors this week: Bobby Allen, Bruce Becker, John Cassels, Alan Ford, Bruce Maloy, and David Melton.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at
Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

On the other hand, the results could be interpreted as meaning most alumni would transfer their giving from football to
the unrestricted category and that there would thus be a net gain. Based on correspondence with Washington and Lee, which
has a non-subsidized football program, it can be assumed that no expense items except scholarships would change.

In a survey of students, 55.3 percent favored non-subsidization and 13.8 percent favored the elimination of football. The present subsidization
program was found unsatisfactory by some because Davidson cannot compete successfully in the Southern Conference. It was pointed out that...Davidson
is the lowest subsidized team in the conference, and this inhibits Davidson’s comparative ability to recruit. The Student Senate will
discuss the report at its next meeting.

NOT EXACTLY SPRING CLEANING

This was the scene at Duke Dormitory last Saturday morning outside the room of John McLean and Jim Milsop where
a fire broke out shortly after 8:30 a.m. After summoning the fire department, a group of the dorm residents attempted
to put out the fire using fire extinguishers from around the halls. However, only two of them worked properly, so
the fire department had to extinguish the blaze. Fire officials unofficially attributed the cause to either a cigarette or match.
A preliminary estimate from the Physical Plant office guesses the room damage to be $1000.09, not including personal items.

Senate Protests Detention Of Coeducation Finance Report

By THOM NICOLL
Asst. Managing Editor

In the only significant action of this week's session, the Senate passed a resolution Wednesday protesting the “lack of action
of the Budget, Building and Grounds Committee (BBG) towards some constructive recommendations on the feasibility of coeducation at Davidson College.”
The resolution was specifically directed toward the committee’s Subcommittee on Coeducation, stating that “this group appears to be the only
holdup in concrete progress towards coeducation at Davidson next year.” The resolution also stated that the SGA could find “no
valid excuse for the delay,” and that the delay was unnecessary.

The Senate’s action was precipitated by the failure of the BBG to present its report of the financial implications of
going coed next year at the last meeting of the EPC subcommittee on coeducation. Earlier in the meeting, EPC member
Dick Clay reported on the EPC’s actions and expressed disappointment that the committee had failed to prepare the report in
time for the last EPC meeting. The resolution was placed on the floor by SGA Vice President Bob Cunningham. Debate
on the question centered on the effectiveness of the action. Bob Corlew argued that perhaps the resolution would have no
positive effect, and that “maybe we shouldn’t antagonize them.” He pointed to President Spencer’s assurance that the report would be
presented in the next meeting. Bill Rolland countered that “the effect is not the most important thing. What is at
issue is whether you agree with the resolution. The important thing is that we take a stand on the problem.”
SGA President Ralph Peeples pointed out that each delay in the coeducation study creates more difficulty for the Admissions Office.
The resolution was passed by a vote of 13-0 with two abstentions.

Cornell Projects

(Continued from Page 1)

The final expenditure will be for construction of a road behind the gym (cost $1500) to be used as an
entrance to the college from Concord Street. This is necessary because the road behind the Union will no longer be
accessible once construction of the library begins. Cornell announced that he had informed the Admissions Committee that there must be
1080 students on campus at the start of the next school year to make the budget balance. This is taking
into account an attrition loss of 50 throughout the year. “This will give us $2.4 million from students in the
form of the comprehensive fee. We are planning on this to help keep the budget in the black next year,”
he said. Cornell also explained the breakdown for the tuition increase is $185 for tuition and fees, $15 for laundry
services, and $25 for board. The $15 laundry increase will allow the laundry to function on a break-even proposition instead
of losing money as it has the past two years. (The laundry will lose approximately $9,000 this year.)

ODK Taps

This year’s list of new members to the Davidson College chapter of the Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity, a national leadership
fraternity which recognizes student involvement in campus activities, was released today by the Dean of Students Office. It contains 19
seniors, eight juniors, and four faculty and staff members. The seniors are: Robert Allen, Bill Dana, John P. Davis, George
Draughon, Jack Hartman, Scott Keeter, William Lear, Russell Merritt, Mark Meza, Robert Norris, Don Parman, Stephen Salyer, Gary Scibal, Jack
Beckman, Frank Scott, Tom Vandiver, Lawrence Wilkinson, Ronald Williams, and J. Allen Woodward.

Junior Class members include: Richard H. Clay, Michael A. Creasman, Larry C. Duncan, William Howland, John B. Pecorak, Ralph A.
Peeples, Bruce A. Snyder, and Gray Wilson.

The two faculty recipients are Fred Gaige and Herbert Jackson, and the staff selections are M. Terry Holland and Peter
V. Sterling.
