Progress Report On Campus Issues
By RICH WILSON
Editor-in-Chief

The purpose of the following progress report is to present the latest developments in the major issues of current interest
on campus. As of today, this is where we stand on campus issues.

COEDUCATION
College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has said that he will make a recommendation on the issue of coeducation to
the trustees this May. The president says he wants the issue settled this year. The trustees had previously committed the
college to the principle of coeducation. They said the college would go coed when it was "educationally and financially feasible."

At the beginning of this year, the president directed the Educational Policy Committee and the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee
to determine the feasibility of coeducation. The EPC has polled the faculty, students, and alumni and has inquired at other
colleges that have recently gone coed as to how their phasing program was conducted. The EPC report, which is scheduled
to be completed in mid-February, will suggest several alternatives to phasing plans. At the same time, the Budget, Building, and
Grounds Committee will submit cost estimates for the different alternatives. These plans will then go before the faculty, who will
make the final recommendation on which plan they feel is academically and financially feasible. The president will then take these
plans before the trustees in May for the final decision.

COMPREHENSIVE FEE
The final decision on the comprehensive fee will be made by Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan and
by Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell. Bevan met with student government leaders Wednesday, where he was
given a list of questions which students feel need to be answered. The two vice presidents have received a report
from the Student Life Committee which protested the fee. They also were asked to abolish the board portion of the
fee by the Patterson Court Council. The President said he will affirm any decision made by his vice presidents.

SUBSIDIZED ATHLETICS
The president has stated that Davidson will continue to subsidize athletics until the college can determine whether the Wildcat Fund
can raise sufficient funds to continue the present football program. In the year ending Dec. 31, the Wildcat Fund raised
$150,000. But in the fiscal year ending last June 30, $265,000 was required to maintain the football program, according to
Cornell. Since $150,000 has already been raised for next year by the Wildcat Fund, the college is now in the
process of determining how much it will subsidize. Cornell said he is anxiously awaiting the Student Government poll on subsidized
football, since he believes that student opinion may be an influential factor in the amount the college will subsidize football
in next year’s budget.

TUITION AND FEES
The college begins investigations for next year’s budget on Monday so that the final budget proposal will be completed in
February to take to the Trustees in May. Although Cornell would not predict the increase, he did comment that college
income in this year’s budget is down by over $50,000. Cornell said this was because of loss of tuition. "Many
students are away from the campus on special programs that we didn’t plan for last year," he said. Unless this
money can be supplied or expenditures reduced, the college will face a financial shortfall.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

cut, the college could show a deficit by the end of the year. SOCIAL SYSTEM Self-selection for freshmen will be
held March 13-17. It will be conducted in a similar fashion to last year's self-selection, on a first come first
serve basis, ac- (See PROGRESSIVE, Page 2)

Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students JANUARY 28, 1972

Ades And Fraternity Council Oppose Comprehensive Fee By BILL GIDUZ Asst. Managing Editor

Opposition to the administration's comprehensive fee proposal was voiced from two sources this week. On Monday, a petition opposing part
of the fee was presented to President Samuel R. Spencer by sophomore Todd Eades. Also, in a regular meeting of
the Patterson Court Council on Tuesday, the members of that group passed a resolution stating that they are in opposition
to the fee.

Kades started his petition last Thursday to protest what he feels is an inconsistency in the application of school rules
and policy of the Board of Trustees. To back up his protest, Eades cited a passage in the Trustees Statement
on Social System Policy stating, ". . . the Board affirms the responsibility of the college to serve the welfare
and interests of all students." Eades said the 259 signatures on the petition were evidence that the board part of
the fee is not felt by the students to be in their interest.

Semi-legal opposition to the board program was pointed up in a part of the Committee of Eighteen report which asserts
that, "The college shall not serve as a collection agency but shall aid in collection should payment be outstanding beyond
a certain time or above a certain amount." Eades stated his interpretation of these passages. "They (the College) will receive
student's money and transfer it to the house at which he's eating: and that's a collection agency. We're asking the
college which rules they’re upholding," he said. "Of course they have the right to change the rules, but the Committee
of Eighteen Report was hashed out and was believed to be the rules for the social system. They've changed their
mind without consulting students or faculty about it." (See EADES, Page 10)

(Staff photo by Rodriguez) WHAT HAVE WE HERE? Sophomore Todd Eades delivers comprehensive fee petition to President Spencer.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, punctuation, and meaning of the provided OCR text.
