Page Two May 5, 1972 The Davidsonian

Duncan Plans New Programs To Rejuvenate Ailing YMCA

By BOB HOWELL
Asst. Managing Editor

There will be a new look to the YMCA next year, in more ways than one, says YMCA President Larry Duncan. “Symbolic of the YMCA's progressive look for next year will be the acquisition of the railroad depot,” said Duncan. “We’ll be able to lease it from Southern Railroad for $1 a year, and we can make any renovations we need to. This summer we'll move the offices over there, and put in insulation and heating,” he added. “This building will serve as a youth center for white and black children of the community, and also for students at Davidson,” Duncan explained. “We'll have one large multi-purpose room for dances, games, and movies,” he continued, “and since this will be the center of the STEP program, there will be individual rooms for tutorial purposes. Besides fixing up the depot, we have big plans for the YMCA itself next year,” Duncan went on.

He said that during the fund drive next year, each contributor of $5 or more would be granted a membership in the YMCA, but noted that the most important changes would be revisions of the YMCA’s present programs. “We’re organizing hall discussions at the beginning of the year for freshmen, with leaders from the administration and student body,” Duncan stated. “But the discussion program will also be expanded into the lounges of the upperclassmen dorms and down onto Patterson Court, after we get suggestions from both students and faculty on what they would like to talk about,” he said.

Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Assistant Managing Editors:
BILL GIDUZ
BOB HOWELL
THOM NICOLL
MIKE TANNER

News Editor:
TOM AINSWORTH

Photography Editor:
BILL BARNES

Assistant Sports Editors:
HOWARD BOYD
CHARLIE TERRELL

Assistant Business Managers:
CLIFF KIRK
RICHARD ROMEYN
RICH SMITH
PHIL STIKES

“The Religious Life program in the past has been geared to freshmen,” Duncan continued, “but next year we’re making a big effort at reaching more students. I think there’s a great need for this, as evidenced by the several groups in this direction that have formed on campus,” he observed. “We hope to bring these groups together, not into one belief, but in a common bond of worship and service, with each retaining its identity.”

Duncan also discussed the Great Issues program. “Next fall there will be a 3-day symposium on the penal system in this country, and we'll bring in noted authorities on the subject. We'll then have similar one-day symposiums on other topics in the winter and spring,” he added.

“The Draft Counseling program has probably been our most effective one this year,” Duncan said, “and it’s being expanded. We've gotten quite a bit of new material on recent draft laws, and we're having office hours next year all during the afternoon.”

Duncan expressed his intention to expand the STEP program considerably. “This is our biggest program, but in the past hasn't gotten that much in funds. This will definitely change next year. The program of working with the North Mecklenburg YMCA will also be expanded,” Duncan stated. “Until recently, their program hasn't been very large, but as they grow we'll have more positions for swimming instructors, and football and basketball coaches to be working with them.

“The Deputations program will also be larger next year,” noted Duncan. “In addition to the Sunday school leaders we have this year, we will organize three teams to present programs on different types of church worship.” Duncan pointed out that there will be a number of Eagle Scouts returning next year to serve as troop leaders, so the Scouting program will remain essentially as it is this year.

“We are also beginning a new program next year,” Duncan continued, “in the area of Social Life.” He emphasized that this program of the YMCA would work in conjunction with the Union and not in competition with it. “I feel that the Union hasn’t been able to provide ample social life this year, and the YMCA will step in to fill that gap.”

Davidsonian Staff

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
ROBERT TOUCHTON
GRAY WILSON

Copy Editors:
BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY

Contributing Editors:
PHIL BISHOP
TOM BRUCE
TODD EADES
JIM HANNA

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKOM
KEVIN BRODE
PAUL MITCHELL

Photographers:
DAVE DOTY
TODD EADES
JOE RODRIGUEZ
BOB STRAND

Circulation:
ROBERT GATES
GREG MITCHELL

Contributors this week:
Bruce Becker, John Cassels, Pete Celentano, Alan Ford, Rick Hussian, Bruce Maloy, David Melton, Richard Romeyn, Charlie Slagle, and Tom Soos.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.hopes to fill in a little of this void,” he said. (Staff photo by Barnes)

THE PERSUASION OF A WOMAN
Coed Jane Farrar talks with Trustee John C. Bernherdt at last night's reception in the lobby of Chambers. Students and faculty met with the Trustees over refreshments, with appeal for co-education being the primary topic of conversation.

Prospects Appear Dim For Married Student Housing
By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

There seems little possibility that the problem of married student housing will improve in the near future. According to President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., the reason why there has been "no outside interest in building a large housing facility was because ‘the college has subsidized rents and kept them low,” thus creating a low-profit situation for private investors. Spencer did note, however, that as of last year, the college began to raise the rent mark to a standard level, thus hoping to stimulate investor interest in the coming years.

The main point Spencer stressed was that “as long as the rental market is not up to par, investors are not going to come in.” As evidence, a private promoter who had submitted a plan to the town to build low-cost housing, mostly for industrial workers in the area, recently withdrew his proposal.

As for the idea that the college itself build a low-cost housing block for married students, Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell thinks that “it is not good for the college to invest in this type of program unless it is grounded to something of value.” For Cornell, the married student housing problem is one simply of financial priorities, “of only having so much money and deciding where to put it.” In this light, the college hasn’t even recognized the married students institutionally.

Both Spencer and Cornell admit that the housing problem for this group is going to get worse before it gets better, as the number of married students increases. The only solution they see, moreover, is in the progression of the entire surrounding area due to the projected finish of I-77 in 1975. By that time, they hope that there will be enough interest by outsiders to build a housing development for both workers and students as the North Mecklenburg County area expands. Until something like this happens, little can be done to alleviate present conditions.

At present, there are close to 40 married student couples, and only eight houses which the college supplies. The rest of the couples are forced to find living quarters in the surrounding area, paying higher prices for a limited amount of space. Surprisingly enough, the couples living in college-supplied quarters, such as the Jackson Heights area behind Grey House, are thankful for this type of low rent (presently $44 per month) housing, and like it.

This is not to say that there are not problems inherent in these structures, however. They were built before World War II as only temporary housing facilities, yet have remained. The walls, for example, are made of poster board, so one cannot wash them without their crumbling. Storage space is always a problem in the limited space available, and heating in winter remains a continual source of trouble.

Yet there are numerous advantages to the existing situation as defined by both Mrs. Phillip Baldwin and her neighbor, Mrs. Allen Tillman. They both like the idea of living in their own homes. They further agree that the college takes good care of maintenance around the houses. The college cuts the lawn, fixes the facilities very quickly after notification, and even supplies both the stove and refrigerator. Basically, they both agree that one could not find a better housing situation anywhere for the money involved.

308 File Deposits For Matriculation
By JOHN CASSELS
Staff Writer

Approximately 308 members of the class of ’76 have filed their $100 deposit with Davidson College. The deadline for notification by accepted applicants that they intend to matriculate to Davidson was last Monday. As of Wednesday afternoon, Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White said that his office had received tuition deposits from 308 of the 571 applicants accepted. There were about five special cases in which the deposit was in the mail at that time.

White said, “Because the percentage who acknowledged their acceptances is larger than last year, we have a few more freshmen than we had expected.” White reported that 15 of the 30 finalists in Davidson Scholarship competition had decided to matriculate. These prospective students had spent the weekend of April 9-11 visiting on the campus. The Freshman Class will also include 10 black students next year. White said, “These are all really fine students, and Lester Strong has done a great job in recruiting them.”