Like Women? Apply To Exchange Program
BY TODD EADES
Contributing Editor

What's it like to be surrounded by seven hundred or more women? It doesn’t happen at Davidson but it does at Hollins, Mary Baldwin, Randolph-Macon Woman's, and Sweet Briar. These schools, and Davidson, Hampden-Sydney, Randolph-Macon, and Washington and Lee, are members of Exchange, A College Consortium.

The Eight College Exchange allows students at these schools to attend one of the other schools for a year as a special student while still being enrolled at their home institution. The purposes of the Exchange are to broaden educational opportunities, to provide a diverse campus environment for the students visiting the campuses and for the students who remain on their campuses, and as an initial limited experiment in cooperation among these colleges.

The program began last year as eight girls came to Davidson and several Davidson men experienced a year at women’s colleges. The co-eds in Grey House are involved in the Consortium.

The Exchange is designed for a student’s junior year, and for a full academic year, but sophomores are eligible for the program and shorter periods of time will be considered. Pre-medical majors are advised to go during their sophomore year. Eligibility is determined by the home schools and final approval by mutual agreement between the host and home institutions. Past experience indicates that almost all applicants for the program are accepted. No minimum grade-point average is needed.

A student’s program must be approved in advance by the home institution. The host school assures him of enrollment in these courses. All academic rules of the host school apply to exchange students. Grades are accepted at face value with the permanent record showing where the course was taken. Pass/fail options are recognized by Davidson. A full program at the host school is recognized as a full program at the home school even if the courses or credits are fewer or more than the case at the home school.

The exchange student is expected to abide by the host institution’s rules and regulations, but there are exceptions in some cases. The Honor Code and Student Government Courts of the host school are enforced on exchange students.

Applications must be submitted to Director of Instructional Development Jay Ostwalt by 5 p.m. Feb. 10. The application must be endorsed by the applicant’s major advisor. A $15 application fee is needed. For freshmen who apply for a sophomore exchange year, the fee will be refunded if he is not accepted in the program by Davidson.

Financial obligations are arranged by the home school. Davidson students pay Davidson fees wherever they go. Charges for special fees are billed by the host school at their rates. Enrollment in ROTC or the Humanities sequence will not impede an application. The program is extremely flexible and arrangements can be worked out.

As of now only two students from Davidson have applied, but more are expected as the Feb. 10 deadline draws near. Ostwalt, as Exchange Program Officer, says late applications can be handled on a special basis but that it’s not wise to wait until later. There is a danger that some of the women’s schools involved will drop the exchange program if they don’t receive more students. The number of women who come to Davidson is indirectly controlled by the number of men who apply to the women’s colleges.

Hollins College
Hollins College is in its fifth year of a 4-1-4 academic calendar, during which students spend the month of January pursuing an independent study project on a pass/fail basis. Features of the academic program are the English Department, science facilities, the performing arts, and special film courses. The campus, located two miles north of Roanoke, Virginia, offers a gymnasium, playing fields, tennis courts, swimming pools, and a putting green.

Mary Baldwin College
Mary Baldwin College operates on the semester system: four courses per term, one of which may be taken pass/fail. The college is located in Staunton, Virginia, in the Shenandoah Valley, and boasts a recent building project which resulted in twice the previous campus area, new athletic fields, residence halls, library, and a science center. The college offers majors in 18 subjects, a varied program of concerts and lectures, and a number of student activities.

Randolph-Macon Woman's College
The semester system at Randolph-Macon Woman's College offers approximately 15 hours per term, part of which may be completed with independent study work. The campus, in a residential area of Lynchburg, Virginia, features varied recreational facilities and opportunities. Highlights of the academic program are the Department of Asian Studies, interdepartmental colloquiums, and a sequence of courses in education. There are also numerous co-curricular activities.

Sweet Briar College
Sweet Briar College presents a 4-1-4 academic calendar and offers a number of departmental and interdepartmental majors. Student activities include publications, musical groups, drama, and utilization of many athletic facilities. There are special academic programs, such as Asian Studies, Honors Program, independent studies, and courses in education. A variety of lectures, concerts, and plays come to the campus, located 12 miles north of Lynchburg, Virginia.The number of Davidson men the women’s schools receive. Ostwalt sees the program as still at the evaluation stage. More involvement by Davidson and the other men’s schools is needed to make the program a success. Ostwalt is quick to point out, as are the Grey House women and the exchange students back at Davidson this year, that for the individual, the program is extremely successful.

By BOB HOWELL
Asst. Managing Editor

The deadline for application (Feb. 10) to the Eight College Exchange Program is fast approaching, and members of the college community are urging students to consider its advantages. SGA President Ralph Peeples convened a Senate ad hoc committee Monday, and stated its purpose as “to get as many coeds as possible to come to Davidson next year,” in the event that coeducation on a regular scale is impossible.

Peeples noted that the most urgent problem connected with the Consortium program is the lack of information on the subject within the general student body. To remedy that situation, the committee decided on several courses of action: each member of the rising Junior Class is being contacted personally by some representative of the committee, presentations are being delivered at the eating clubs, a group of coeds is writing a letter to be sent to members of the rising Sophomore and Junior Classes, and coeds will also meet with each of the freshman halls this week.

Director of Instructional Development Jay Ostwalt explained how the Consortium was compatible with the necessity for students to meet area and major requirements. “First of all, students planning to participate in the program should concentrate on their major requirements in the sophomore year, and spend the year away on filling area requirements,” he said. “Permission can be secured from the Registrar’s Office to defer the necessary area requirements until the junior year for added flexibility.

“Students should talk to professors in their major department,” Ostwalt continued, “because some courses offered at other schools in the Consortium will meet their major requirements.” Ostwalt also mentioned the possibility of students taking a heavier load of courses when they returned to Davidson, if they were already in some form of an accelerated program, but added, “In my opinion, it’s not one of the better options.”

Dean of Students Will Terry expressed his approval of the program and said, “I think it helps a student to get another kind of educational viewpoint. It’s good that we can offer this opportunity through the Consortium without a lot of additional hassle. It may enable a student to get course offerings which we don’t have here,” he continued, “for example, the fine film courses offered at Hollins.”

President Samuel R. Spencer, presenting his views of the program, commented, “First of all, I would say that it’s not for everybody, but for many, going elsewhere for a part of his education will give a student a kind of perspective that he wouldn’t have otherwise.”

Clinical Psychologist William G. Workman agreed with the program and said, “The idea is good; I’m enthusiastic about anything that broadens a person's experience.”

Consortium Veterans Give New Program High Rating

By PHILIP BISHOP
Staff Writer

Davidson veterans of the Eight College Exchange Program endorse it enthusiastically, both during their year away from Davidson and after they return. Bill Davenport, a junior now studying at Hollins College, praised the completely different atmosphere he found at a girls’ school. “The girls at Hollins don’t write letters to the editor, don’t put things on the Wailing Wall, and don’t worry about IMAC games. They study hard, and then they enjoy themselves,” he said.

“The Spartan mentality at Davidson makes you do a lot of things you don’t need to do. At Hollins, having fun is just as important as studying,” Davenport added. “There is much less academic pressure.” Davenport felt this attitude was a tremendous advantage of study at Hollins. “If you don’t spend a year at a girls’ school, you don’t know what you're missing,” he said.

“At Hollins, you can’t date a girl and then sink back into your ego-boosting peer group. You have to face the girls every day, and you learn to deal with women on a one-to-one basis,” said Bobby Allen, a senior who studied in the Consortium last year. Allen emphasized the opportunity for new personal relationships. “The communal atmosphere at Hollins makes it much less formal. The exchange students can know the professors on a first-name basis.”

Hollins’ January semester is “an excellent opportunity to work intensively in your major, or to break out of it and travel abroad,” added Allen. Senior Joe Turner praised the academic benefits of his year at Hollins. “It’s a chance to absorb a different approach to education. You can gain fresh insight and round out your undergraduate experience.

“So many people complain about the situation at Davidson. Study at a girls’ school is a tremendous opportunity to do something about enriching and expanding your education,” Turner said.