Che Bauvidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR DECEMBER 1, 1972

Some Observations

For the most part, the discussions between the Black Student Coalition (BSC) and the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) have been restrained and fairly objective. This is essential for any progress to be made. In addition to frank discussion, progress requires that there be some actions taken. A debate may be very helpful in understanding a problem, but talk alone will not solve the grievances of the blacks. It is clear that both blacks and the college have failed to perform the work necessary to improve conditions.

In the past, the college has promised the blacks that Davidson will hire some black professors, yet we have none. Granted, it is difficult to find first-rate black professors who want to teach in lily-white Davidson. But at the same time, we question whether the faculty and the administration have made a significant effort to recruit black faculty. The blacks have demanded a better social life but have done little to help the union bring about such a change. We find the blacks very vulnerable to charges that they don’t take advantage of many of the black-related social and academic possibilities already open to them.

The BSC this week expressed disappointment that the FEC’s response was “vague and noncommittal,” but we fail to see how the college could respond otherwise. The college must make a commitment to the blacks and then actively seek to fulfill this commitment. But to promise the blacks more than the college can possibly deliver would be to insult the intelligence of all of us. The debate has taken place; now is the time for both groups to work to relieve present conditions.

Serious Business

A blanket of silence prevails across campus as students and faculty enter the final stage of the term's intellectual inquiry. Such a state of seriousness symbolizes academia with faculty giving their final evaluation of students' work. Students are free to take their exams anytime they wish because we live under a system of honor which depends on the honesty and integrity of the members of this community. Unfortunately, neither students nor faculty regard the honor system with the seriousness that they regard exams. Despite pleas from the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) and the registrar, many faculty members have not reiterated the importance of the honor system to their students. They mention it in an off-hand manner. Students treat the system in a similar fashion, many resenting the suggestion that the honor system applies to them. Despite instructions from the honor court that nothing is to be said about any exam until the period is over, several consider themselves above such restrictions. Exams and the honor system go hand in hand. Students and faculty cannot take exams seriously without taking the honor system seriously as well.

A Bright Spot

As the fall term draws to a close, we find one bright spot of activity amid a sea of non-functioning committees and a lazy faculty and student body. APO, under the leadership of Chris Allison, is trying to fulfill its goal as a service organization. Again this year, they published the college directory, and they sponsored a picnic this week for the STEP program. Now they have embarked on a more ambitious project, establishing a used bookstore. Once again, this group has demonstrated that things will not get done around here unless someone is willing to put in the required hard work. We hope APO will serve as an example to all faculty and student organizations which, for the most part, have failed to fulfill their responsibilities so far this year. We applaud the vigor and motivation of this group of students.

The Good, The Mad, And The Hungry

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

...YEAH, AND THE TRICK, GENTLEMEN, IS THAT WE HAVE A NEW DEFINITION OF “SERVICE!”

Spray-Painting Belk Yellow Included In Dorm Demands

To the Editor:

I must confess that as I parade into my room each day (Belk 320), I am immediately impressed by its elegance. My room has pipes to do pull-ups, the soap dishes are just right, and the mirror reflects my image. As a matter of fact, my room last year had separate faucets for the hot and cold water. Of course, now I'm a sophomore and I don't enjoy this benefit, but I recognize the necessity of making sacrifices. Nevertheless...The rooms have white ceilings and green and yellow walls. The overhead light is often so bright I have to whip out my shades, and the rooms are large enough to have a dance. To top it all off, my feather bed and silk sheets are the ultimate in comfort. Yes, sometimes I am deeply disturbed that the other sexes, races, and ethnic groups are being so dramatically deprived here at Davidson. To be perfectly honest, I can only in good conscience request that next year we be moved to Little Dorm and permit the coeds to benefit from the luxury of third Belk. Naturally, this will require certain subsidies on the part of the administration to provide funds for (a) removal of urinals, (b) adaptation of soap dish height, (c) removal of top shelf, and (d) shower curtains. We request this with reluctance and timidity but with a clear conscience and a big heart. We would also like to comment on the sound perceptive administrative financial acquisitions. With the drastic increase in oceanographic and lake studies, Lake Norman should be considered as an excellent purchase. Naturally, the price should not exceed $100,000 a square knot. In conclusion, we are submitting a set of proposals which must be met if the college expects any more white, male students to be encouraged to come here. We have only four demands though because we have it so GOOD. (1) Some of the taller students have been complaining that the toilets are too low. Some of the shorter undergraduates insist that the toilets are too high. Adjustable toilet seats MUST be provided. (2) Removal of urinals which spit back at you when you flush them. (3) The outside of Belk Dorm should be painted green and yellow—like the inside. (4) A work-study exchange program should be developed with Charlotte Correctional Institute and the North Carolina State Penitentiary. I realize this letter is ridiculous, but isn't that the trend? 

Chris Young ‘75
Davidson College

Court Fine Policy, Classics Column Hit

To the Editor:

The latest action of the Patterson Court Council, levying a fine of $100 on any House where a freshman pledges to a national fraternity, is typical of a thwarted child who tries to force his will on those around him. All frustrated people must compel those outside their personal setup to conform to their own enforced level of mediocrity. Freshmen are to be allowed no alternative. After all, what Davidson freshman is capable of relying on his own judgement? Everyone knows that when a young man enters Davidson he desperately needs his Mommy to show him what is really best for him. And the PCC has decided to be a universal mother. Personally, I was a staunch independent for three years, and I did not approve of fraternities. But last year I started eating at Random House (still an Inde), and I came to like and appreciate the people there. But I will never be a fraternity man; now the PCC is going to fine me because I like to eat with a group of people who happen to belong to a fraternity. I have no part in the actions of that fraternity; I am being punished for associating with the "wrong" people. Apparently, freedom of choice is not to be allowed in the social system at Davidson. All must conform, individual rights have no meaning in an antiquated "ivory tower." I'm glad I'm leaving before this college reverts totally to its policy of mass conformity that I once thought was a thing of the past.

Rick Levi ‘74
Davidson College

To The Editor:

It seems to me that Associate Editor Robert Touchton's “analysis” of the Spring Seminar in Classics Abroad (THE DAVIDSONIAN, November 17, 1972) raises the question of the propriety of using DAVIDSONIAN editorial privilege either as a means of circulating course evaluations or as an instrument for publicly excoriating a professor with whose pedagogical procedures one may not agree. Despite some specious concessions, Mr. Touchton’s article has the character of a personal vendetta (by his own admission it was timed to coincide with the selection of this year’s candidates for the seminar). It is regrettable that such an expression was addressed to the whole forum of DAVIDSONIAN readers rather than to the recognized hierarchy of appeals for academic grievances, especially at a time when many are laboring to improve student-faculty relations and to enhance the role of students in faculty evaluation.

Dirk French
Davidson, North Carolina