LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

JYA’s Rejected As Hall Counselors

To the Editor:

Inspiration to write a letter to the sterile institution of THE DAVIDSONIAN comes hard, but narrow-minded administrators and inflexible policies that really make a difference are enough to rouse even the more apathetic constituents of Davidson College (a stalwart group to which I must confess active membership).

The question at hand involves the ever-popular Mrs. Nicholls and the oft-ignored policy of hall counseling. I sincerely hope that Mrs. Nicholls does not feel that she has become the brunt of undue criticism (i.e. "dog" article) as no one doubts the existence of many other topics worthy of editorial authorship. She is, however, responsible for the upcoming selection of hall counselors and will make the decisions based on policy guidelines which detrimentally limit the span of competent applicants.

The most notable exemption from the application files is that of rising seniors. The decision to exclude rising seniors from hall counselorships was made last year after much discussion between Mrs. Nicholls and the hall counselors themselves. The reasoning behind the decision was based on the thoughts of several introspective seniors who sincerely felt that they had not contributed as much to the freshmen as they had their junior year. They felt that the impetus to counsel had stagnated and that their interests in graduate school and other elements of senior concern were sapping their attention. The fact that this was the second year for these counselors is an important aspect to understand at this point. Mrs. Nicholls and the hall counselors believe, as do I, that "second-year men" are not as enthusiastic as "first-year men," that this group believes that seniors in general are not of hall counseling mettle. Certainly, debate could arise on that arbitrary bit of reasoning, but it is not on that point that I wish to base my attack.

Unrelieved Tension Blows Out Viewer

A REVIEW By BOB WRIGHT

Faced with the more than dismal prospect of reviewing a film called "Captain Milkshake" ("If you liked Billy Jack, you'll love 'Captain Milkshake'," if you barely sat through Billy Jack, the Captain will probably make you puke), I opted for bagging that and decided to write about a film that is getting a lot of talk these days, "Straw Dogs."

Sam Peckinpah, a name one hears more and more lately, first hit the "big time" with a bloody, ultraviolent film called "The Wild Bunch." It was pretty much Peckinpah’s forte, in that it was a western, had fairly romantic characters, and was very realistic as far as violence (i.e. blood and guts) was concerned. "The Wild Bunch" was a financial success, so afterwards Sam Peckinpah was fairly free to do what he wanted. What he wanted to do was to make a non-western with big-name stars and plenty of violence, in other words, "Straw Dogs."

It is the story of David (Dustin Hoffman), an expatriate American intellectual who has come to a small town in Britain to get his life, his book, and his marriage (in roughly that order) together. In America, David was faced with violence and bloodshed only "between commercials." In his new home, his wife’s birthplace, there seems to be no commercial to break up the town’s palpable enmity toward him. His wife’s cat is the first to go, hung from a light cord in the bedroom closet. Soon, his wife Amy (played almost to perfection by Susan George) is brutally raped by an ex-lover while Hoffman is led on a snipe hunt. The rape is probably the most psychologically violent scene on screen since Hitchcock's "Psycho." Del Henney as the rapist is superbly malicious here as he is all through the film.

Hoffman has managed to close his eyes to what has gone on so far, even under his wife's less than subtle hints that he is being made a fool of. Faced with an untenable situation, he makes a classic American move by choosing to ignore its existence. But while driving home from a church "social" he hits the town idiot with his car. This act of unintentional violence begins a chilling train of horrors for the idiot, whom David has taken into his home until he can contact the doctor. He is being hunted by the gang of men from the town. Hoffman’s efforts to keep them out of the house and their efforts to get in make up the last twenty minutes of the film. Twenty minutes not for the squeamish. By the end, you'll be completely blown out, physically and mentally. If you’re not, you have not been watching.

Dustin Hoffman is not nearly as flashy in "Straw Dogs" as he was...in “Midnight Cowboy.” His performance here is more on the level of “The Graduate,” underplayed and brilliant. His last smile sent chills up my spine, and if he can do that without all the histrionics of Ratso Rizzo, he’s as good as they say he is. But Sam Peckinpah is the name that should most quickly be linked with “Straw Dogs.” With this film, he has finally shown himself to be the great director he could be. Watch for his next film: if it's as good as “Straw Dogs,” it will be great; if it's better, don’t be surprised.

The influence exerted by the two upperclassmen on each freshman hall has probably the second greatest effect on freshmen that can be directly attributed to Davidson. Grades and professors have managed to maintain the primary sanction throughout the years. No upperclassman, and I suppose freshmen by this date, can deny the influence, one way or another, that hall counselors have had on their attitudes. Because I believe this to be true, I feel that the most serious harm is done by the exclusion of rising seniors who happened to have been junior year abroad. Students who have experienced what is possibly Davidson's finest educational experiment are not permitted to relate their experiences to freshmen as hall counselors.

The reasoning behind this policy is narrow-minded, thoughtlessly restrictive, and unfortunately reflects the stagnant attitude characteristic of the Davidson power structure. Davidson's regulating elite has welded the already impenetrable walls of “Davidson Standards” through the past two years, with a steady supply of feudal decrees enforced by blindly inflexible manor lords. The question of hall counselors becomes important when one realizes how little the administration cares about students who are not working along with the best-laid plans of Davidson College. Mrs. Nicholls dismissed the possibility of a former junior year abroad student becoming a hall counselor on the grounds that said individuals would probably be occupied with making quite an adjustment to Davidson that would probably blow normal senior problems out of focus.

I am not sure when Mrs. Nicholls last traveled to Europe nor am I aware of the last time she had to make an adjustment to Davidson life, but I am positive that in the vast expanses of cosmopolitan Cabarrus and Mecklenburg counties, a traumatic situation cropped up not three minutes ago. Mrs. Nicholls, let us not offer new experiences to our freshmen. Instead, we should continue to chain them inside of Davidson’s paper bag curriculum led by the “Head-Fetter,” Richard Burts. A paper bag that you, Mrs. Nicholls, would have a hard time squeezing out of even if you want to or the more important condition... if Burts would let you. Take hope, Mrs. Nicholls, the deadline for applications is soon coming up and if Burts has taught you well, you will be able to say that it is too late to do anything about it with the utmost authority.

Eric Vernon ‘74
Davidson College

To the Editor:

It was with some consternation that I viewed the editorial cartoon in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN. To refresh your memory, it pictured a pair of nefarious acts being committed while Cop Linker continued to write a parking ticket, oblivious to these situations. The caption fully explained the editorial intent of the cartoonist. It was his purpose to continue the discussion on campus security begun on the preceding page by pointing out that perhaps even our present inadequate security force could do a better job protecting the campus if only it did not spend its time writing so many parking tickets. In this sentiment, I wholeheartedly agree.

I take exception, however, to the unmistakable tone of the cartoon. The cartoonist places the blame for this preoccupation directly on Linker and his ceaseless stream of tickets, instead of placing it where it belongs, that is, upon the innumerable students who continue to earn these citations. The opinion so expressed is completely antithetical to that expressed on the preceding page by Robert Touchton in his analysis of the security problem. It was his belief, and I concur, that the students have a responsibility to aid our skeletal security force. Part of this responsibility could be fulfilled by simply avoiding traffic citations issued for illegal parking. Every student knows the rules by now. There are more than an ample number of legal parking spaces. Why, then, must so many students continue to occupy the security force with such trivia, when all are agreed that this force has such a more important job to do?

Richard Bush, ‘72
Davidson College