Page Eight April 21, 1972 The Davidsonian

Slumping Cats
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

You couldn’t really blame Coach Tom Stevens for being frustrated in efforts to solve the current slump of seven straight losses. “Our play has been mystifying to me, and so many of our mistakes have been mental. We have lacked complete concentration on the field and at the plate,” lamented Stevens.

Stevens pointed to the inconsistency of the hitting as one of the primary mysteries. The team batting average is a respectable .270, but the batters have left too many men on base, according to Stevens. “We are just not hitting with men in scoring position. Our bats have been silenced by some pretty sorry pitching.”

The past four losses reflected the problems which Stevens has had to face all season. In a road contest at Pfeiffer, the Cats were shut out for the fourth time by a 7-0 score. Three of the Falcons’ runs were unearned, coming on a misplayed fly ball with the bases loaded.

Last Saturday the Cats dropped a doubleheader to East Carolina by scores of 4-1 and 4-3. An unfortunate thing happened to the Cats even before the twin bill began. Shortstop Jack Willits lost a contact lens during a warmup drill and did not play in either game. Willits was replaced by Bick Halligan, who helped the defense. Stevens also credited Halligan with playing “a great game at third base on defense” at Pfeiffer.

Last season's ace hurler Rick Pipan started for the first time in the second ECU game and pitched four innings. One bright spot for the Cats was the stickwork of leftfielder George Weicker, who slapped two hits in each ECU game and also against Pfeiffer. Weicker’s .394 average places him among the conference leaders.

IMAC Outlook Still Muddled
By CHARLIE SLAGLE and RICK HUSSIAN
Staff Writers

Emanon III and the XAs are coming on strong after a slow start in the IMAC tennis League A this week. F&M I beat Reggies and SPEs in two, but had difficulties with Faculty. Ren Henson and Mike Spencer of Sentelle IV proved superior by defeating Joe Finch and Barden Christiansen. But they lost their first sets before coming from behind to win. Gordon’s 3-9 swept through Gamma I in preparation for their showdown with F&M early next week.

KAs continue to dominate League B with a 2-1 record, followed by Emanon I (1-1), Watts II (1-2), PAX II (1-2), Reggies (1-2), CI (0-3), and the Gammas (0-3). Betas are ranked first in League C.

Upcoming Events:
Saturday, April 22
- Tennis: Davidson vs. Washington, D.C. at 2 PM
- Sailing: Davidson at Annapolis, Md.
- Baseball: Davidson vs. The Citadel here at 2 PM

Monday, April 24
- Tennis: Davidson vs. Lake Norman here at 4 PM

Wednesday, April 26
- Tennis: Davidson vs. UNC here at 4 PM
- Baseball: Davidson vs. Belmont Abbey here at 3 PM

Thursday, April 27
- Tennis: Davidson vs. Presbyterian here at 4 PM

The undefeated PAX I team of Charlie Slagle and Scrappy Steve Earp now stands at 4-0 after whipping Duke's and F&M II.=.o matches. The ATOs, led by Doug Ber. a 3 T. Rowever, extended Earp to three sets. The ATOs: best SAEs before ng wo Tae SAEs 31 lost only to the ATOs before beating the Delts (2-2), who are now bolstered by walk-ons Larm Horowitz and Greg Dunn. The remainder of League C is made up of F&M II (1-2), Emanon II (1-3), Duke's (0-2), and the Gamms (0-4).

In League A of softball action, the Delts (4-0) are in first place after beating Our Boy’s Gang 13-3 and the Gamms 14-3. They are followed by OBG (4-1), ATO (3-1), and protestors Watts II (2-1) and BTP (3-0). The fiery Betas protested their game with Watts II over an illegal action by the freshmen's third base coach. Watts II won the game 9-4, but the outcome is still being decided. The ATOs killed Sentelle IV 16-3 and edged out the Gamms 7-6. Watts II beat PAX I 11-4 in their only other game this week. Emanon (2-2), PAX I (2-2), Gamms (0-4), Sentelle IV (0-4), and CI (0-4) occupy the cellar.

League B is knotted up with five teams at the top of the race. F&M (3-1), whose Bobby Kelley is the first player to be evicted from a game, lost to the Hurting Herd (3-1), 10-8. The KAs (3-1) were knocked from the ranks of the unbeaten by the Pikas 16-5. The Pikas (3-1) infield, led by Leo Valiante, committed only two errors in a splendid fielding performance. Staten Island Ferries (3-1) beat Anathema (2-2) in a close game, 11-10. The SPEs (2-2), PAX II (2-2), and the forfeit leaders Watts I and SAE with 0-4 slates make up the rest of League B.

A final decision as to the IM AC track meet will be made this Monday. It is tentatively scheduled for early in the second week in May.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

All the Cat weaknesses seemed to surface in Tuesday's game with Duke, which saw the Cats get clobbered 18-4. Relief ace Mike Frye started for the Cats, but he grooved his fastball several times and did not survive the first inning. He was replaced by Greg Cameron, who could not stop the onslaught. Joe Duncan was called on to mop up in the second inning, but by that time the Blue Devils had 13 runs and were on their way. Centerfielder Bill Barnhill took the mound in the ninth inning and was touched for the final Duke run. Barnhill is not a stranger to that position, however. “I pitched some in high school and I've been pitching batting practice lately. Against Duke, I didn’t have many warm-ups and it took me a while to get loose. My best pitch is the curve, but I had trouble getting it over,” he explained.

Barnhill, who has been hitting only .213 after last season's .347, cited lack of concentration as the source of the team's problems. “This has led to a lack of confidence, and there was a stage when we were always second-guessing ourselves. We got in a psychological rut of losing. Our morale is good though, and we should be playing for fun now. I think we'll be looser since there’s no pressure,” he added.

The Wildcats carried a 7-14 worksheet into last night's game against UNC at Chapel Hill, who sported a 19-6 ledger. The Cats can still have the best record of any Davidson team. The best mark is held by the 1958 squad, which went 11-6. The Cats have not finished over .500 since 1964. Tomorrow the Cats entertain conference-leading Furman in a twin bill at 1:30 p.m. Belmont Abbey visits Wednesday at 3 p.m., and the Cats host Catawba on Thursday.

A learned fool is more foolish than an ignorant one.
—Moliere

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what "low net cost" really means.
Hal Mapes
Jim Roy
892-1467
892-1424
ROBERT T. STONE
District Agent