Page Two December 1, 1972 The Davidsonian

EPC To Study Possibilities For Beginning CLEP Program

By JIM PAULSEN
Staff Writer

The Educational Policy Committee is now studying the possibilities of inaugurating a College Level Examination Program (CLEP) at Davidson College, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. The College Level Examination Program is intended to take whatever experiences a person has had, and allow the person to take a qualifying exam to gain college credit. For example, traveling, reading, holding a job, or independently might enable a person to acquire knowledge of a subject so that he would be capable of passing an exam in that area.

“How does this program fit the Davidson situation, and how can it reflect the kind of proficiency that is achieved here? These are some of the aspects of the program that the committee will be considering,” said Bevan.

CLEP programs are in operation at a number of colleges and universities across the country. In some cases, students are allowed to gain as much as two years’ college credit. “Lots of students here are very bright and capable, and if they are motivated to study independently then such programs could be quite valuable,” said Professor of Political Science Winfred P. Minter. “This program would have to be carefully worked out, because there is a difficulty in fixing a level of attainment that a person should reach,” Minter said.

Student reaction to a CLEP program was favorable and many expressed an interest in gaining credit through such a program. “I wish they had a system of CLEP tests at Davidson. That way you could pass off certain requirements, so you would be free to take other courses that you might not otherwise have time for,” said Freshman Mark Wilensky. “I think CLEP is a good deal. If you have learned the information, then you should be given credit for it,” said Eric Walker. “A CLEP program allows you to be credited with knowledge gained from broad living and as such is beneficial,” Walker said.

Stating a number of values to such a program, Bevan pointed out that it is an alternative approach to acquiring information and would require initiative on the part of the student. He also mentioned that prospective students might select a college partly on whether such a program was available. “I don’t think that you will find a tremendous number of individuals who will be rushing through college through such a program,” said Bevan. “I do think we ought to have the possibility open to students,” he said.

Considering what form this program might take, Bevan suggested that the CLEP program might simply be used as a guideline in setting up tests more geared to the level of achievement required at Davidson. He also stated that the college might at first experiment with such a program on a small scale with a limited number of students.

(Staff photo by Goodman) WRETCH Gerald Plotz chokes down one more egg as he approaches number 51.

Students Discuss Bowman Gray Program

By RICHARD ROMEYN
Contributing Editor

Prospective applicants to the Bowman Gray - Davidson College Early Admission plan met yesterday with Bowman Gray Assistant Dean Archie Johnson and members of Davidson's pre-med committee. The meeting, aimed at acquainting those in attendance with the specifics of the program, is the first in a series of sessions and interviews which will culminate in the acceptance of up to six applicants this spring into the new program. The program is believed to be the first ever allowing students of an independent college to gain early acceptance to an independent medical school. Pre-med advisor James Fredericksen called the program “an exciting possibility” and said he sees the program's chief asset as enabling the student to “develop in areas

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors: DOUG BROWN, ALEC HOON
Sports Editor: JOE EARLE
News Editor: TOM AINSWORTH
Photography Editor: BILL BARNES
Assistant Managing Editors: BOB HOWELL, BRUCE MALOY, THOM NICOLL, MIKE TANNER
Assistant Features Editor: JOHN CASSELS
Copy Editor: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Sports Editors: DAVID MELTON, JIM SITTERSON, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Associate Editors: ALAN BARAGONA, ROBERT TOUCHTON, GRAY WILSON
Contributing Editors: TOM BRUCE, TODD EADES, RICHARD ROMEYN
Photographers: JIM DAVIS, PETE GOODMAN, ROB PETERSON
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKOM, PAUL MITCHELL, JOHN LEMMON
Assistant Business Managers: CLIFF KIRK, RICHARD ROMEYN, RICH SMITH, PHIL STIKES
Circulation: RICKY BELL, ROBERT GATES

Contributors this week: Betsy Alexander, Bruce Becker, Mark Connors, Bruce Corser, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Gary Garvin, Hugh Hennis, Harriett Hodges, Jack Linard, John McElveen, Hugh Moore, Ford Newman, Jim Paulsen, Val Van Horn, and Bob Wright.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

besides the natural sciences." Since grades are de-emphasized, the student would be able to take upper courses in the humanities, social and behavioral sciences which he would ordinarily not feel free to take. Fredericksen did emphasize, however, the student who falls "flat on his face" after admittance to the program would be dropped. During the two remaining years at Davidson, accepted students would be able to take courses such as human anatomy or biochemistry at Bowman Gray. Research and hospital aid positions would also be available during the summer months. The program is aimed primarily at sophomores; however, several juniors have indicated their interest in the program, and Fredericksen indicated that they will be given consideration. Interested freshmen were urged to attend the meeting but will not be considered until next year.

"There is no limit to how many students can sign up," said Fredericksen. "We will try to carry all those who sign up as far as possible." He did acknowledge, however, that an excessive number of applicants may make proceedings unwieldy. At present, almost 20 students have signed up. Applicants will be screened by Davidson's pre-med committee in a series of formal and informal sessions during the winter term. The committee will then recommend a number of applicants to Bowman Gray, whose admission committee will then make the final selection. Those admitted to the program will be notified of their acceptance during the spring term. There is a possibility that Davidson senior pre-med majors and Davidson medical alumni may participate in the screening. The screening committee will, in Fredericksen's words, "look for someone who will take advantage of the flexibility of the program to the fullest extent." A student's academic record will not be foremost in consideration. Instead, such factors as integrity, industry, and motivation will be emphasized. Fredericksen made it clear that the program should not be considered a backdoor into med school for the subpar student, and he is confident that any such individuals would be weeded out during the screening process.

"A drawback in the program is that the decision must be made two years in advance," said Fredericksen. "We don't want students to limit themselves this far in advance if they are not positive of their interest in Bowman Gray. We will point out the advantages and the disadvantages and let the student make up his own mind." Once the acceptance agreement has been signed, the student can withdraw only under extenuating circumstances, and under no condition may he withdraw to enter another medical school.

SGA Discusses Publications
By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

The future of the "Quips & Cranks" and the "Wildcat Handbook" was discussed by the SGA Senate in the last meeting before Christmas vacation. In a review of past expenditures by the two publications, SGA President Ralph Peeples urged formation of a voluntary group to look into the question of campus support for both journals. Receiving no response, Peeples expressed his concern about the failure of present and past members of the Senate to volunteer for projects, and he asked senators to review their commitment to the student body in this respect. Senator Bill Meier revealed that the "Quips & Cranks" expenditure for the past issue had been over $11,500 and was concerned about the quality of the publication for this amount. Senator Bob Corlew suggested that the inquiry, in the form of a questionnaire to the student body, be put off until the January elections so as to receive a larger response than at the present.

All Tuesday night's Senate resolutions passed unanimously, the first being Steve Suflas’ request that College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. appoint a committee to "investigate all aspects of football, its future on the Davidson campus and its costs." This committee is to report its findings before the end of the academic year. Also significant was the unanimous passage of Senate Vice President Bob Cunningham's resolution which called for full Senate support for the job done by the student traffic law enforcers. Cunningham also asked for student body support of the traffic law enforcement program. An unanimous entry into the Senate by-laws was Meier's amendment which gave the Union Board the sole authority for the disbursement of the Social Fee through the Board's student-run Social Council. The Board will be required to report to the SGA its expenditures on a yearly basis. The Senate also gave special recognition to Rick Damewood's ad hoc committee which is in the process of compiling a new student Course Evaluation Handbook. This gives Damewood a firmer basis with which to work, especially in the area of fund allocations.

Honors College

Dear Frontis Johnston announced this week that interviews for entrance to the Honors College winter term will be held next week. All those interested in applying should contact the Dean as soon as possible.