Shipp, Ingold Spark Cat Win

By JIM SITTERSON
Staff Writer

Davidson overwhelmed Furman in the second half Saturday, to crush the visitors 51-35.

Coach Dave Fagg’s initial reaction was that, “it was a real fine game.”

The passing of Scotty Shipp and the all-around play of Dave Ingold sparked the Wildcat attack.

Shipp passed for 22 of 30 for a 71% completion percentage.

“Scotty is developing into one of the finest field generals Davidson ever had,” Fagg said.

Ingold had 135 yards rushing against Furman. Adding on to his pass receptions, kick and punt returns, Ingold’s total production for the afternoon came to 283 yards. For these efforts, Ingold received the Offensive Player of the Week award in the Southern Conference.

Ingold's finest moment came when he ran back a punt 51 yards for a touchdown.

His teammates came off the bench and swarmed Ingold under in the end zone.

“It was one of the highlights of my coaching career, watching them go down and congratulate Dave,” Fagg added.

Fagg felt the victory was not any fault of the Furman team. Rather, he thought that the enthusiasm of the Davidson team was too much for the Paladins.

Frank Shinn, Steve Still, and Walt Walker were cited for their offensive play.

Fagg remarked that the entire offensive line had done a good job protecting Shipp, saying, “This was the second week in a row that they didn’t let anyone get to Scotty.”

On defense, Fagg cited Bill Garrett, Tom Fleischer, Eddie Womack, Jim Hardison, and George Weicher for outstanding games.

Garrett was nominated for the defensive player of the week in the conference.

Woody Montgomery set a school record with three field goals in one game. Shipp and Garrett were voted special awards by the team.

Fagg felt that there was no great secret to beating Furman.

Noting the team's hard luck in recent weeks, Fagg said the difference was in avoiding the “untimely situations, the penalties, and fumbles.”

Fagg could not find any mistakes in Davidson's play other than a momentary defensive lapse. Offensively, Davidson stuck to a small number of plays, hoping for better execution.

Fagg refused to take any credit for the victory, claiming that it belonged to the team and that they had earned it.

“I was about as proud and happy of a group of young men and a game as I've been in some time.”

The Davidsonian
October 20, 1972
Page Nine