She Bavidsonian

January 28, 1972

Page Nine

‘Cat Challenge Brings Two Coaches

By BRUCE BECKER
Staff Writer

The Davidson challenge has lured two new coaches into the football program.

Like the Sirens of the “Odyssey,” the challenge has brought these two young coaches into the rocky waters of Davidson's
athletic-academic-economic problems.

Dave Roberts is 25 years old and hails from Greenville, S.C. He bears a slight resemblance to a short Hoss
Cartwright, and appropriately enough, he will coach the defensive line.

He graduated from Western Carolina University and played some pro ball with the Atlanta Falcons.

However, he was rendered inactive when he suffered torn knee cartilage and a separated shoulder, all on the same play.

Roberts then coached high school football in South Carolina and last year, college ball at Eastern Kentucky.

Ron Graham is the one who does not look like Hoss Cartwright. He grew up in Ohio and graduated from
Ashland College.

He spent his next two years coaching in high school under Bob Mosketti, the present Wildcat defensive coordinator. Last season
he returned to Ashland to coach.

Both coaches cite two big reasons for coming to Davidson.

Surprising Matmen Tackle UNC Tonight

The Davidson wrestling team is undefeated, but coach Charlie Parker will make no predictions as to how strong the team
is.

“I still don't know whether we're that good or they're that bad,” he said.

Several of the Davidson grapplers are still undefeated in individual competition.

The team took their fourth straight in a shutout of Washington and Lee last weekend, a win that even surprised
Parker.

“I had heard that they were a strong team,” he said, “but we beat them at every position, forfeiting only
at 118, as usual.”

Davidson has no one to compete in the 118 weight class and is forced to forfeit that position in every
match.

The team should have a chance to really prove its strength tonight at UNC, according to Parker.

“Chapel Hill has a good team, even though they have only one wrestler returning from last year,” Parker stated. “They
gave Virginia a good fight.”

Next weekend the ’Cats will host a four-squad meet of conference teams that will determine the leader of what Parker
calls the conference “amateurs,” the non-scholarship teams.

Davidson, VMI, The Citadel, and Furman will meet here in a two-day quad meet.

“The Conference is divided into two classes,” Parker added, “the scholarship schools and the non-scholarship schools. The quad meet here
next weekend will determine the strongest of the non-scholarship competition.”

They see in head coach Dave Fagg a man under whom they would like to learn their trade. Not only
does he have the knowledge but they look forward to working with him.

“I had known Coach Fagg before coming here. Although he didn’t know me, I thought very highly of him. I
knew I would like to get under him wherever he was. It happens to be at Davidson and I think
we can turn the program around,” said Roberts.

The second reason is the major college status of Davidson College. They wanted to become a part of a team
which plays the likes of Richmond, Wake Forest, and the Air Force Academy.

“I think every young coach's ambition is to get into a major college. Give him a good program where he
can, someday, go into head coaching,” said Graham.

However, despite their optimism, traces of the Davidson challenge could be seen as reasons for their arrival.

Before them lies the task of transforming sixty students into a team that will face the Air Force Academy in
eight months. Behind them is the support of a divided campus.

There are but twelve seniors returning. Anything the Wildcats accomplish is an achievement for Ron Graham and Dave Roberts.

“A lot of pressure rides on coaches, but that’s the way it should be in any situation,” said Roberts.

“You're paid to do a certain job and a part of that job is to win. That's what people look
at, although there are other things. No matter what else happens, it's whether you've won. That's what you're brought in
to do.”

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:

North Carolina's nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. Camps feature
sailing, seamanship, motorboating, and all usual camping activities. Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who are
LOOKING FOR MORE than “just another summer job.” Openings for NURSES (RN). June 7-August 18. We seek highly qualified (ability
to instruct in one phase of camp's program), dedicated and enthusiastic staff members with exemplary character and offer in return
good salaries, board and lodging, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt
of application. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull-Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina, 27695.

Are you quality for banking’s New Breed?

They're young. Our average new officer is 26. They're flexible. The kind who rush out to meet change. They're self-starters.
Because they know stagnation is not our style.

We need managers. You need a job. Does this suggest anything to you? Why not see C&S, the billion-dollar bank
at the crossroads of the South? Where 80 out of the top 100 U.S. companies bank.

C&S' Don Rochow will be on your campus next week. Like to meet him? Check with your placement office now!

The Citizens and Southern Banks in Georgia
