Part I: Historical Review

Coeducation has been under serious discussion at Davidson College since the autumn of 1968, when the President’s Study Commission on
Coeducation began meeting. That Commission, made up of members of the Faculty, the student body, and the Board of Trustees
of Davidson College, presented its report in May 1969. The Commission had conducted an extensive survey of faculty, student, and
alumni opinion, investigated the experience of other colleges with coeducation, analyzed the costs which Davidson would incur in becoming coeducational,
and evaluated the arguments for and against coeducation at that time for Davidson College.

The Commission found that coeducation was desirable from an educational point of view in that it provided an opportunity to
prepare students more adequately for the world in which they would live after their undergraduate days were over. It also
found that Davidson would be more likely to maintain or to enhance the quality of its educational program if the
college became coeducational, since it would be in a better position to attract the ablest students.

“To increase the attractiveness of Davidson as an educational institution, to make possible the continued selection of highly qualified students,
to enhance present programs and to develop and populate new programs,” the Commission recommended that Davidson become coeducational “at the
earliest appropriate time.” Its study of the economic aspects of coeducation convinced the Commission that this move was well within
the financial capabilities and fundraising potential of the college. The Commission recommended that the enrollment eventually become 1500, composed of
900 men and 600 women students.

During the year 1969, the question of coeducation for Davidson College was further investigated by an outside consulting agency, the
Academy for Educational Development. After talking to faculty members, students, and administrators, and evaluating Davidson's current standing and its future
prospects, the AED recommended that the college become coeducational at the earliest possible date. The AED felt that coeducation would
not only provide an important stimulus to the intellectual and cultural life of the college, but that without it Davidson
would be less able to compete with prestigious institutions for the best students. The figures projected for Davidson’s enrollment were
in line with those already recommended by the Study Commission.

While the AED investigation was taking place, arrangements were being discussed whereby Davidson would admit students on a one-year, exchange
basis with seven colleges (including four women’s colleges) in Virginia: Hampden-Sydney College, Hollins College, Mary Baldwin College, Randolph-Macon College, Randolph-Macon
Woman's College, Sweet Briar College, and Washington and Lee University. On December 5, 1969, the Faculty of Davidson College voted
to admit up to 30 women students for the 1970-71 academic year under the Eight College Student Exchange Program. A
similar exchange arrangement was subsequently made involving Davidson and Queens College in Charlotte. Ten women students attended Davidson College in
1970-71, and twelve in 1971-72 under these exchange arrangements.

The Board of Trustees of Davidson College responded to the recommendations of the Study Commission and AED reports on February
3-4, 1970, by expressing its willingness “to consider the admission of women students as degree candidates at such time as
this is judged by the Board to be economically and educationally feasible.” They also directed that inter-institutional arrangements with Queens
College be explored as one possible avenue toward this objective.

A further step towards coeducation was taken by the Board in May 1971, when it made the decision that the
wife or daughter of a member of the faculty or staff at Davidson, or the wife of a student at
Davidson, could enroll as a regular or special student in Davidson. Several women students, including one candidate for a degree,
have enrolled in the college under this arrangement. Thus, by the autumn of 1971, the subject of coeducation had been
investigated, some practical steps towards coeducation had been taken, and the academic community had had some experience with coeducation at
Davidson on a limited scale.

The Davidsonian EPC Coeducation Report April 7, 1972 Page Five (Staff photo by Barnes)

DAVIDSON GENTLEWOMEN? Things look brighter for coeds on campus next year.

Part II: Investigation, Polls, Surveys

On September 17, 1971, Dr. John M. Bevan, Vice President for Academic Affairs at Davidson College, acting on the request
of President Spencer, appointed a subcommittee of the Educational Policy Committee to investigate the experience of colleges comparable to Davidson
with coeducation and to examine the feasibility of further steps towards coeducation at Davidson. The purpose of the investigation was
to assist the Educational Policy Committee in formulating recommendations to the faculty on the future of coeducation at this college.

The members of the Educational Policy Committee appointed to the Subcommittee on Coeducation were Professors W. Brown Patterson, Chairman, Charles
L. Cornwell, David C. Grant,and Charles E. Ratliff, and Mr. Joseph E. Turner, Class of 1972. During the autumn of
1971, the members of the subcommittee got in touch with officials at eight formerly all-men’s colleges and universities, roughly comparable
to Davidson in size and academic program, which had taken steps in the last few years to become coeducational. The
eight are Colgate University, Dartmouth College, Franklin and Marshall College, Hamilton College, Kenyon College, Princeton University, the University of the
South (Sewanee), and Williams College.

We received fairly detailed information from these colleges on the process by which they reached a decision in favor of
coeducation and the steps by which they planned to implement that decision. This information is in the form of letters,
summaries of telephone conversations, and published reports and resolutions. To the information which the subcommittee compiled, we added information from
several of the same colleges and universities gathered in the spring of 1971 by Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt, Director of
Instructional Development, at the request of Dr. Bevan. Dr. Ostwalt assisted the subcommittee in analyzing the information gathered from these
sources.

We found that, with a single exception, these colleges were becoming coeducational by expanding their total enrollment without substantially reducing
the number of men students. Projected increases in enrollment ranged from 25% to 100%. The projected ratios of men to
women students ranged from 4:1 to 1.3:1. All, therefore, expected to educate women in considerable numbers in the next few
years.

The financial costs of becoming coeducational by expanding the enrollment were found to be almost exactly the same as those
involved in any expansion—whether by men or women. Capital funds had to be raised (by gifts or loans) for additional
housing and dining facilities. But except for the two colleges which have been involved in building coordinate colleges for women,
there seems to have been relatively little new building other than housing and dining facilities connected with coeducation. Loans from
government sources at low rates of interest seem to be used most often to finance these additions. Two colleges are
attempting to avoid any substantial building program by utilizing their present facilities on a year-round basis.

The questionnaire which was devised attempted to gauge not only the respondent’s opinion on the desirability of coeducation at Davidson,
but his reaction to a number of possible plans by which coeducation could be realized. It was eventually decided to
poll four groups: faculty, administrative staff, students, and alumni. The same questionnaire was used for all groups, in order that
the results could be compared more easily. Questionnaires were sent to all members of the faculty, all members of the
administrative staff, all students living on campus, and all alumni. We received questionnaires back from 83.5% of the faculty, 52.7%
of the administrative staff, 60.3% of the students, and 27.1% of the alumni.

“The Educational Policy Committee has come to the conclusion, after considering the subject since September 1971, that it is not
only desirable and feasible for Davidson College to become coeducational, but that it is imperative for the college to do
so at the earliest possible time.” - EPC Coeducation Report.

Every college, without exception, felt that the move to coeducation had been the right one. General satisfaction was expressed with
the quality of the women students, as compared with the men students. Half the colleges felt that women had had
a positive effect on the intellectual and cultural life of the campus; at the other half, there was apparently no
discernible change. None of the colleges had altered the curriculum significantly for the admission of women, the commonly-expressed view being
that the liberal arts curriculum is suitable for men and women.

As for operating expenses, the colleges seem to have found that the increased expenditures required for an enlarged student body
are met by the increased revenues which come in through tuition and fees. The colleges, again with the exception of
those with coordinate colleges, have found it unnecessary to add many administrative personnel specifically for women students. Coeducation was, on
the whole, proving to be a practical venture.

The subcommittee was also asked at an early stage in its deliberations to help formulate a questionnaire on coeducation which
could be used to ascertain the opinions of the alumni and other groups on this subject. There was strong support
from all groups for increasing the number of women students at Davidson. In favor were 68.6% of the faculty, 75.9%
of the administrative staff, 90.7% of the students, and 59.3% of the alumni. Among the alumni, the strongest support came
from the classes which have graduated in the past eleven years, but there were more supporters than opponents of coeducation
in each group of classes for which separate tabulations were made: '00-'25, '26-'39, '40-'49, '50-'59, and '60-'71.

Again, as to the most advis-

(See INVESTIGATIONS, Pg. 6)
