Che Bavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
SEPTEMBER 29, 1972

Hungry Or Broke

When the new Slater Eating Plan was announced last spring, it seemed a welcome change from the bland rigor of freshman and independent eating in the past. To all concerned, this new system appeared to allow students more variety and freedom of choice. We felt that Slater had used the three houses on the court to the best advantage of the campus. But upon returning this fall, we find a great deal of dissatisfaction among freshmen and upperclassmen over the implementation of this plan. The lines at the inexpensive houses wind through the front door and out to the walk, since many are forced to eat cheap food if they happen to believe in three meals a day. Others simply go hungry.

Slater has said that these problems will work themselves out as the year goes on. They claim that most will have money left over at the end of the term, since students will leave campus on the weekends or eat elsewhere. Furthermore, Slater said they can back up these claims by the fact that 70 percent of the possible money which could be spent last week was actually received. It is true that many will leave on the weekends, while others will be invited to fraternity houses for meals, but this rationalization does not soothe the growling stomachs of those who have nowhere to go on the weekends, and who plan to eat their meals at the college. Are these people just supposed to eat at subsistence level?

We believe that when the college accepted the board bill from freshman parents, they took the responsibility of providing three decent meals a day. Whether the student takes advantage of this is his business. But no student should be penalized because he eats all his meals here. Freshman adjustment to college is traumatic enough without some having to worry about where their next meal is coming from. We are convinced that Ron Scott is doing his best to provide as equitable a food service as he possibly can. This is no easy task when he must contend with the small volume of food consumed at a college like Davidson. But we hope that Slater will make adjustments in this plan that will provide not just three adequate meals a day for students, but three good and nutritious ones. Scott has demonstrated in the past that this can be done, and we hope he will do his best to maintain this quality of service.

High Cost Continues

What the student gets for his $2 is a Xerox copy of a typewritten sheet. It is surprising that our Marvelous Machine, the computer, cannot keep grade records and be called upon to instantly print out a student grade report from data kept in the computer room. If not less expensive, such a transcript would at least look nicer and be a much better ambassador for Davidson at graduate and other schools. But in fact, even under a computer system, there is no reason why a transcript should cost $2, since most colleges and universities charge $1 for a transcript. For students who have paid the college over $3,000 a year for four years, and have to pay high prices for graduate examinations and application fees, and who are applying to numerous graduate schools, this cost can make a difference.

It is hard to believe that a summer passed without any action on the part of the Administration to alleviate or at least explain the high cost of telling other people of the fine record a student has earned at Davidson. The business office last year said they would study the matter after they had completed the financial report for coeducation. The SGA studied the announced raise in prices for transcripts last year and found, by their estimates, that the cost could not be above 50 cents. The Administration estimates the cost of labor alone at $1. Somebody’s not figuring right.

‘Band’ Goes To New Musical Zenith With ‘Rock Of Ages’

A Review By JOE EARLE

The Band has always been a band that had an exceptional talent for breaking conventions. From their first recording five years ago, the group has presented an image of themselves as champions of reason fighting the accepted myths of the music culture. They started by simply referring to themselves as The Band, an anonymous group of unstars who found music more important than personality. On their first album, they openly stated that they liked their parents, aunts, uncles, neighbors, cousins, and dogs, a startling revelation in the generation gap-crazy days of 1968. Finally, they dared to present the names of various members of the group on an equal basis with Bob Dylan. This type of insolence set the sophisticated rock world of 1968 reeling. In the year of Cream, The Doors, and revolution, anyone who simply played music was weird. But these boys could play. Damn well.

For the past five years, they continued to play well, experimenting with various styles and becoming more tasteful and tight with each successive album. And they continued to break those subculture conventions many of us still hold. The Band’s newest album is “Rock of Ages,” a recording of their concert last New Year's Eve at the New York Conservatory of Music. On this album, the group breaks their own conventions. After a recording period of five years, the group has, of course, set a few conventions of their own. They have a particular Band approach to their music, and a Band sound. On “Rock of Ages,” they reinterpret most of their old “hits” from their first four albums, and mix these with a smattering of fifties and early sixties rockers.

The first jump in style is the inclusion of a horn section. The group has used horns sparingly on a few songs before, but here, they bring in a section of sidemen to supplement the music. The horns carry much of the rhythm and some of the lead through all but one side of the double album. These horns are used simply and intelligently throughout the set. They adhere strictly to thecharts written for them, and serve to add even more texture and depth to the group's sound. It's interesting to see that when a lot of us had given up on the use of horns due to the excesses of groups like Chicago, The Band could bring them back and show how horns should be handled. The strength of The Band's recordings has always been a type of intellectual simplicity found in their music. There is seldom, if ever, a wasted note to be found in any song. On this live album, the group opens up for more solos, but they remain short and to the point. None of the songs, with the exception of Garth Hudson's eight-minute organ excursion, have particularly long solos, and the music is performed with all the taste and finesse the group uses in the studio. This simplicity shows through in all the songs on "Rock of Ages." Each member of the band is playing his instrument for the sake of the total sound. There is no fighting for a lead position, no hotdog instrumental battling. Each man takes his part and works the most out of it within the context of the individual song. The set opens with "Don't Do It," a Holland-Dozier-Holland song. From the first, The Band showcases the changes from their previous recording style. The horns work with the rhythm section in the New Orleans-Memphis tradition as Robbie Robertson rips out some near-perfect guitar leads. The remainder of the concert follows different musical formulas, some of the songs with, some without the horns. But throughout, the band takes its songs and rebuilds them, making them more personal and dramatic than their previous recordings. If this record has any drawback at all, it is that the group chose to stick to their older material. Only one cut is included from their last album. "Rock of Ages" may sound like a pretentious title for a rock album, even when taken in jest. But, if any live recording ever earned that title, this is it.

Get Tips On Life At College

The following is a closed letter to the freshman class with some advice and general comments you probably did not hear during orientation and probably will not believe, yet which may be applied at a later date when you finally begin to see the light about how to make it at Davidson:

The advice? Number one, finish unpacking. Second, love your roommate as yourself. He was hand-picked by the best computer money can buy. Next, check the hall after your room is secured. Don’t believe a word from your hall counselors. Their disregard for the facts is surpassed only by the reporting of this newspaper. Likewise, don't trust a sophomore. A sophomore is a wimp who has punted his way through three more terms than you. Save your respect and admiration for juniors and seniors, veritable Greek gods on this campus.

Now look to the least important aspect of Davidson, the educational one. If you are in Kimbrough’s class wondering where the textbook to the course is or in Humes wanting to know if the other 100 students are actually reading all the materials in the syllabus, pay close attention. The plain truth is, there is no rush to get an education. If you have a thirst for knowledge, quench it up at Hattie’s---that is, the Trucker’s Inn. There will be plenty of time during summer school to learn that which you did not absorb during the regular year. In the same vein, avoid the library. For years this edifice has been the source of a mysterious disease found in books and carried by an odd breed of flies. There is hope that the new library presently under construction will not carry this affliction, and so far none of the hard hats working on the site have shown any unfavorable symptoms.

Enjoy your meals on Patterson Court, but don't make friends while eating there. Get used to the idea that these houses are for eating only. Socializing with a group of friends is strictly forbidden. Don't get into the habit of picking your own pals; let the administration do that. Finally, take your troubles to the Lord, not Will Terry.

While you masticate on all this sage advice, a few general comments. To begin with the profound, Davidson is changing. But it cannot change without changing its fresh young blood which arrives on campus each year as well. Of course, now the freshmen show up with their parents so that Mom and Dad can go back home assured that nobody will tamper with their little boy's (or girl’s) mind. Then the real orientation begins. Orientation is not a communist plot, but a much milder form of subversion designed to convince students that Davidson is a forum for the free exchange of ideas and the cultivation of individual tastes before the freshmen find out otherwise from their uppers.

There are some things, however, which you as freshmen must answer for as a group, aside from the administrative hoodwinking. For example, how come when you were looking for something to get involved in extracurricularly, only five of you thought to sign up for the Wind Ensemble and only three for Pep Band, a dying group no longer bolstered up by a strict P.E. requirement? I know, no one can judge a class by its performance in a matter of two weeks, but many are watching to see if you sink or swim, and right now the administration is not giving styrofoam life preservers to anyone outside of its financial staff.

One last item. In case you heard about a freshman cake race from some of the oldies, there will not be one this year. So stop asking questions. Instead, you have your regatta which used to belong to the fraternities and congrats to the proud champions in the basement of East (now Sentelle) Dorm who will not see that case of beer they were promised. The cake race, alas, a long-time favorite on campus, was dropped thanks to the negative jockdom of a latent Burney, so the next time you pass by the football field stop long enough to imagine the smell of 75 cakes that won't be there anymore.