oot rs nee = DLAI 0! Piso T r3 2 iges Ske Bavesanian te - % £ Pa + {4
wt ete SL soe > jy, Senate Opens New Sessions With EPC, SLC Appointments A cee ee tee A Z
Z y Ye Yy MD IME Se tess fice Sever Club Ey BOB +~SWELL LieTEIST Wie deca _ - Tre
ul > eninge ze: t8 tin $.02° BAST Ee TOU at cs ws Toe chat cect: Seta, A:st. Mzr2zg-g Edo
2.020 WEST Ee TALUS $ tee We obled fo. te tet Toe tes a a a Led - a aa
nr ee ae, SE co er Od weve 7 720 - sucdects ct: Dai oho, by Campbell: oe ee DUT
me ee ee yen PEEPLES AT HELM . ter tee tet a sa or SGA President convenes newly elected Senate.
_.. Sanford Movement Planned 7 z, Feil 5 @.SHOe a a ae Tele er of Duke Un, 0 Cy Be
Wa ate. DP ve : - wt ae ” Sa Wote- wEMlITD op. we alas ot Gar one ANGER universes
ere eo H sbert _ oe, Losweine Bests ces ders nt Pap he TE re Cnerkve las! ne. Te 8
a ree wee bona f ‘ron egaits - . ” m2 bt bee . — Lore hats do. Tamera. atid
7 FS we _ , —_ . on et) lippariers. pe Te woes soar Shitiny ; eT tae rr et
Codie ep ce both Studer Peat, > Peers cer ng her 7 Solos eO lett. TET ee a3 pars ee
un. Are PIeSSur- fee dpe ET ~ ; ae THIET lie bot egrett ote. oat? “osign Lis pus. ~ TU
BP. Sati an May Lee fle - eee tee, toes Dalen aw 7 . 7 Tésidents must _ a 27
Bilge? . “PPport ap: iys . “, 48 DE TOC Tats by - oe ETS ne Seer pe 8G .
. es Poe 2.:01S Must . ol ea an oSenred decades te run, 0 requested fr -. sume pre. Pees
Tiede rg cg a, _ nat’ y . Eds.ind Muskie Sor Fouauary 2 co : 2a" re ~ -7 =
, , pT be fve ti ste oe rer Wiison 4 nnounces New See TESS = Davidsonian Positions , oe
OE ts Te Paci cat Ur ee Ge tet wee ae P.sing tuner. Doug Brow: Jon Zale arising tanor. alll
net +: a “et tee eit. te oce tne May wee , oe f id Ales Hoon see namet -.
CW aus cf Sporms Edstor with wl “ta wea. S, TESS rag.ng Editor positions of sett Ps Crete Terrell and
How es weet. aE, Mie 7 Nors Tarvin: etl. THE DAVIDSONIAN this wees ard Boyd remaince his ass & :
-- eee eee Loe . c oe tees on ec. rh fea. eietted Ed:torse €° <f TUNES . i tts
Le ee ee Dot at tte mt enert Lod <r. Pi... Wilson Rosina $ ptemore Tom Ans a SR Brean
wno hes served as.arn WIPER cE the News Editor . ot etl ates “Ft fae LETEGEES assistant managing edizor, wuil
POs 4." He «ail be in charge : a ee — a To, Ve ert Bross be in ehange of
the editorta. “To news. .werace and assign: et eTSR Boog. Lt ares aten and featutes pages cf the paper. nents
tor THE OAVIDSONIAN. tte. take Grren ced section He «il be assisted by rising Copy Edwar posiuons will be nd
Laden st tumor Bill Gidue and nsing _ded by rising sophomores Bill art 5 . LAT. 88 veers s-phomore Thom
Nicoil . Elie and Lex Veasey. Elleti A ulnpsonian Staff Diteetine in Lender and Hoon. who also served as an
= WHEwis write the editorial staff:

SUPPLEMENT TO THE DAVIDSONIAN

Editor-in-Chief: Claude Felton
Assistant Managing Editor: Will Veazey will take over the duties of editing the "Outside Perspective" column.

Editors:
Associate Editors for the news pages: Rising sophomore Bob Howell and Mike Testa. Rising senior Robert Touchton will be the
Sports Editor, and Tanner will be his assistant. Rising senior and former Managing Editor, Gray Wilson, will become associate editors.

Contributing Editors:
Gray Wilson and Alan Baragona will be regular columnists for the paper along with Bobby Allen, Cecil Burney, and Howard
Patterson.

Editor:
(Continued From Page 1)
Governance system remains as it stands. Should the system be modified, or should it be abolished completely? Ramagh, who will
continue on the staff until they graduate, will lead the new section of Contributing Editors. This position was created this
year and will be comprised of experienced writers who will be in charge of investigative teams as well as special
projects. Tom Bruce, Todd Eades, and David Nani Hanna have been named to this position.

Assistant Sports Editor:
Circulation: Abby Kennedy

Bill Barnes will become photography editor and Tom Campbell will be a photographer.

Contributors:
Frank, Todd Eades, and Joe Rodriguez will be photographers.

Whit Whitworth will be the new business manager and he will be assisted by rising sophomore Richard Romeyn, Rich Smith,
and Phil Stikes.

It is expected that the President will soon formally endorse this proposal. The Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee is beginning
to study sites for a permanent Union location either in existing structures or in a new structure.
