(Staff photos by Rodriguez) 

FOILING FABER: Eric Minkin shoots over the outstretched arms of ECU's Al Faber.

Fund: New Head, Old Pains
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

When Sandy Carnegie moved into his new position as head of the Wildcat Club last Tuesday, he found his office completely furnished. There were pictures on the wall of all Southern Conference champion teams of the past two years, stacks of computer lists filled with names of alumni, friends, and other potential givers, and a chart breaking down donations by desired sizes. There were also the problems of the year-and-a-half-old organization.

The Wildcat Fund was created two years ago by the trustees who sought to save some of the college's money being poured into football. The fund is set up to raise money for football scholarships through alumni contributions. It failed to reach its scholarship goal in both the 1970 and 1971 drives.

“But we're very optimistic,” Carnegie stated. “We raised $80,000 in the half year of 1970 and $120,000 last year. That’s a 50 percent increase, a big upswing.” Carnegie said that he felt that the giving would continue to rise at its present rate, and the Club would meet its projected need of $160,000, the same amount projected for the past two seasons. Both times the Club has failed to raise enough monies, the college has made up the difference, in order to give the organization time to get on its feet.

But the Fund now has several things going in its favor, not the least of which is Carnegie, who has almost 30 years of experience as a salesman for various companies around the Charlotte area. One of the biggest new assets the Fund has is its recent merger with the Wildcat Club, the Davidson sports booster club. Now all contributions to the football scholarship program are made to the Wildcat Club, and are fully tax-deductible. They are officially contributions to Davidson College.

Carnegie also has several promotional ideas to draw more money from alumni. “We have over 10,000 living alumni,” he stated, “and if we could get just 20 percent giving, or maybe less, we could easily reach our goal.” One of Carnegie’s projected plans is to try to get past football players from a particular class to donate one scholarship, or $3,300. “Say there are 30 players from the class of '56. We'll go to them and say ‘We want a full scholarship from your class. You had a free ride when you were at Davidson, so now help a kid who needs it like you did.’”

Another project is to solicit local businessmen for goodwill contributions. Carnegie stands very strongly in favor of subsidized football because “it helps foster diversity in the student body.” But he is also in favor of the Wildcat Club approach to scholarship funding because “it puts the monkey on the back of the people that want it.” So, Carnegie is happy in his new office, and he is ready to start reorganizing it to suit his tastes—with new programs and without the problems.

The Davidsonian
February 4, 1972
Page Seven

Falconi-less 'Cats Beat ECU, Tackle Bulldogs Tomorrow
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

“If they're that good without him, think what they would be with him.” You couldn't blame Southern Conference coaches for saying that after the Wildcats, minus backcourt star John Falconi, devastated East Carolina last Tuesday 92-79. Falconi suffered an ankle injury in the 80-66 win over Wake Forest last Saturday, but his absence was hardly noticed as the 'Cats completely outclassed the Pirates.

The offensive thrust was provided by Joe Sutter and pivot man Eric Minkin, who exploded for 27 and 22 points respectively. Riding a six-game winning streak into last night’s game with VMI, the Wildcats travel to The Citadel tomorrow for another conference test. The Bulldogs should be rated as the surprise team in the league this year, because they are waging a tough battle for third place with East Carolina. John Sutor, an aggressive 6-8 center, is the leading point maker for the Bulldogs, and he uses his 225 pounds under the boards very effectively as a rebounder. The backcourt of Jim Below andSteve Fishel is not flashy, but the two are a steadying influence on the club and they play rugged defense. The contest will be regionally televised. The real showdown comes Tuesday when the ’Cats invade the territory of the Furman Paladins in hopes of avenging an earlier defeat. Russ Hunt of the Paladins stands as the leading scorer in the conference, and with big and mobile Roy Simpson, he gives the Paladins a strong frontcourt. One factor working against the Paladins will be their rigorous schedule prior to the game. In an emotional 91-90 loss to Jacksonville last Monday, the Paladins were plagued by foul trouble and a costly turnover in the last 12 seconds of play. Jacksonville visited Furman yesterday, and the Paladins entertain East Carolina tomorrow before the Wildcats arrive. Furman coach Joe Williams scouted the 'Cats at both the Princeton and East Carolina games, and the ’Cats gave him an eyeful on both occasions.

John Pecorak led the scoring against Wake Forest with 18, and collected 12 rebounds. In addition to their fine scoring against ECU, Minkin and Sutter controlled the boards and played very aggressive defense. The injury to Falconi knocked a little of the wind out of the ‘Cat sails, but the 6-5 sophomore hopes to be able to practice in about ten days. “I hope to be back for the Duke, Dayton, and South Carolina games and then go full speed for the conference tournament,” Falconi explained. Falconi admitted that the injury came at a time when he was beginning to develop into a complete player, a goal for which he has been striving. “I got hurt at a bad time, because I have the confidence I didn’t have earlier. My defense has improved, but a lot of that comes from the team's overall defensive improvement,” he noted. The team did not appear to miss Falconi in the East Carolina game as much as had been feared, and he attributed this to See FALCONI, Page 9.

Parker Shows Strength, Speed
By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

Big man Sheldon Parker of the Davidson Wildkittens has “unlimited potential” according to coach Jim Larranaga, but still has “a long way to go.” The 6-9 center for the 11-1 freshman team has done a “great job working on rebounding, especially on the defensive boards. He’s also progressed a lot on his jump shot,” commented Larranaga. There are three things a big man should have in basketball in Larranaga’s view. First, that he be strong. Second, he should be able to run and finally be able to jump. “Sheldon has all these physical attributes, plus a great mental attitude towards the game,” Larranaga says. If Parker has any weaknesses, they are his lack of both playing experience, and lack of concentration, in the coach’s opinion. Parker agrees especially on the latter point, and personally attributes it to a less than average performance in Tuesday night’s 104-75 win over East Carolina. Despite this, he dumped in 29 points and pulled down 11 rebounds. Greg Dunn led the scoring in that game, nosing out Parker with 30 points. Parker placed third in scoring in the ’Kittens 73-68 win over the Wake Forest Little Deacs, with 13 behind Dunn’s 20 and Larry Horowitz's 14. “The coaches helped me with a lot of individual work, things I never worked on before,” commented Parker. From his point of view, it's “my offensive moves that need the greatest improvement—that and controlling the ball.” Despite his size, Parker isn’t the one leading the team in scoring. As to this last point, he is quick to note that the Kitten’s style of play is “the combined effort of everybody, not just one person.” Playing erratically all season, with some poor styles of play behind him, Parker thinks his best game so far was the Kittens 87-67 romp over V.M.I. at the Keydet’s home Jan. 18. “That’s when I got it all together,” exclaimed Parker. The big man is only sorry that the freshman team doesn't get another chance to meet Clemson. “I’m sure we could beat them,” he says.

Sheldon Parker adds two points to the Wildkitten’s 104-75 romp over ECU.