Page Twelve October 13, 1972

Shr Bavidsonian

Freshmen Score Well On Quiz, Exempt Annual Library Tour

GARY STEWART
Staff Writer

Ten freshmen scored a perfect paper on the library quiz which was given for the first time this year during
freshman orientation. In the past, a one-hour tour was given to incoming freshmen in order for them to become familiar
with the Davidson library. But the evaluations from these tours were poor, with most of the students agreeing that there
was too much to learn at one time.

With this in mind, Will Terry, dean of students, and Chalmers Davidson, director of the college library, decided to revise
the current program since they were “doing too much for the students and not letting the students do anything for
themselves.” The librarians put together a quiz consisting of questions ranging from “Where in the library are the government documents
shelved?” to “Where is the suggestion box located in the library?”

Some students thought that the quiz was very helpful. “It was a good way to get to know the place,”
said one freshman. “The way they did it made you want to learn.” However, others felt the quiz was not
particularly helpful. “I learned nothing that I can remember at the moment,” said Bobby Evans. “I would rather have had
a guided tour through the library.”

Questionnaire Reveals Discontent

By VAL VAN HORN
Staff Writer

To the northeast of the greater part of the Davidson campus stand three houses—Bailey, Richards, and Rusk. These houses, or
rather, the system they represent, the American Restaurant Association (ARA), have been a source of controversy almost from the moment
the student body picked up their meal ticket booklets.

Four students did more than complain among themselves. Roger Manley, Lynn Dean, Dan Thorpe, and Bill Manson compiled a questionnaire
about the food service. It was distributed to the freshmen, for whom the meal service was mandatory. Following are the
results of the questionnaire.

1. Are you satisfied with the present eating plan, the $2.51 allotted per day on the eating plan offered in
the three houses run by the college?
19.7%—YES
80.3%—NO

2. Do you like the basic concept of the variety of food offered at the three different eating houses?
93.2%—YES
6.8%—NO

3. Is the eating plan what you expected it to be, based on the information you received from the college
prior to coming here?
27.5%—YES
63.35%—WORSE

4. How many substantial meals per week are you in the habit of eating when at home?
AVERAGE—19.35 meals
How many substantial meals per week can you afford on the eating plan?
AVERAGE—13.32 meals

5. Do you feel that you can eat adequately on the $2.51 allotted per day on the eating plan?
16.6%—YES
83.4%—NO

6. If you were to eat adequately without having to worry about cost, do you believe your coupons would be
sufficient to last the entire term?
13.2%—YES
86.8%—NO

7. Considering that you are allotted $2.51 per day, do you feel that you can afford to eat at the
Bailey House?
9.1%—BETTER
7.6%—YES
72.4%—NO

8. Do you feel the food is overpriced?
89.3%—YES
11.7%—NO
At which eating house?
77.4%—Bailey
54.7%—Richards
30.4%—Rusk

9. Have you been unduly hungry at any time during the term as a result of the eating plan?
49.6%—YES
50.4%—NO

10. If it were not mandatory for freshmen to eat on the eating plan offered by the college eating houses,
would you buy a meal coupon book, given the present conditions?
56%—YES
44%—NO

11. Are you satisfied with the quality of the food being served?
85.4%—YES
14.6%—NO

12. Have you felt cheated by the present eating plan?
73%—YES
27%—NO

The reason for the survey was that “the freshmen were starving,” said Manley. “The meal tickets will probably be used
up by the seventh week. Even if they aren't, the students shouldn't have to worry about food...” According to Manley,
the shortage of tickets by the end of the term would be a particular difficulty for the athletes and foreign
students. “My major gripe is that the freshmen should have planned on eating out or paying at the food houses
at the end of the term,” he said. “The college should've called it the Union supplementary board.”

“Ron Scott is doing everything he can,” Manley said. “Kinks need to be worked out, but it’s too bad they're
at our expense.” Suggestions offered by Manley, Jenkins, and Neil Lenhoff for improving the dining system included lowering the prices,
changing the plan to purchasing the meal coupon books by the semester instead of by year, and having tickets for
individual houses (e.g., guarantee two or three meals a day at one house).would have learned more that way.” Some students
complained about the stupidity of the questions. “The question about the library having an oil painting or only a photograph
of the first Davidson president was really unbelievable,” said Jimmy Vale. “I mean, who gives a damn anyway?”

The results of the quizzes were very good according to Davidson. With 85 percent of the freshman class taking the
test, 69 only missed one question.

Women’s Lib Sparks
By CARY HERIN
Staff Writer

Last Sunday night an informal symposium on the Women's Liberation Movement was sponsored by the residents of Grey House at
the Carolina Inn. Approximately 30 students and faculty members attended. The symposium began with presentations by Bruce Snyder, Dick Clay,
and Ralph Peeples who had researched the topic. After the presentations, the floor was opened for discussion. The interaction led
to an interesting discussion in which such topics as women’s rights and sexism in children's books were debated.

The Women's Liberation Movement was divided into two distinct components, the right-wing “Pussycat League” and the leftist “Society for Cutting
Down Men (SCUM).” It seems that the Pussycats demand equality in the job market and liberalized abortion laws, but retain
the proposition that woman's chief purpose and pleasure is to please man.

Parents Come For Weekend
By RALPH HOLLOWAY
Staff Writer

Davidson Parents will arrive on-campus today to participate in the activities of Parents Weekend. A welcoming reception on Chambers front
lawn at 10 a.m. will kick off the weekend dedicated to honoring the parents. Opening Convocation honoring the class of
1973 at 11 a.m. will be highlighted by an address by His Excellency L. K. Jha, Ambassador of India to
the United States. His address will be followed by the awarding of Honorary Degrees and the announcement of the Thomas
Jefferson and Alumni Awards.

At 2 p.m., the Honorable Richardson L. Preyer will preside at the Parent's Council at Love Auditorium and will present
a speech entitled “We, The Parents...”

Up’n’ Coming
Friday, October 13
Parents’ Weekend all day
Fall Convocation
Chambers Front Lawn 10 a.m.
Welcome Reception
Chambers Front Lawn 11 a.m.
Opening Convocation
Love Auditorium
His Excellency L. K. Jha, Indian Ambassador to U.S.

Wednesday, October 18
12 noon
Convocation Luncheon
Address: Dr. Lionel H. Newsom
Chambers Banquet Hall
2 p.m.
The Parents Council
Love Auditorium
8 p.m.
Concert: Bob Long and Paul Irwin
Rathskeller

Saturday, October 14
10 a.m.
Coffee for Mothers
President's House
10 a.m.
Coffee with Coaches for Dads
Johnston Gym
10 a.m.
Alumni Parents Meeting
Carolina Inn
12:15 p.m.
Picnic on the Lawn
Front Lawn
8 p.m.
Concert: Bob Long and Paul Irwin
Rathskeller

Monday, October 16
all week
Art Exhibit by Philip Mullen
Stowe Galleries
10 a.m.
A Happening by Dr. Mullen
Stowe Galleries
7:30 p.m.
Nixon-McGovern debate
Phi Hall Balcony
8:30 p.m.
Club Football Meeting
Martin Room

Tuesday, October 17
10 a.m.
Piedmont Lecturer:
Perkins Auditorium
Bernhard Anderson
7 and 9 p.m.
Movie: “Goal”
Morrison Room
8 p.m.
Piedmont Lecturer:
Hodson Hall
Bernhard Anderson
Dr. Reginald Krause: “The Disease of Too Much and Too Little”
8 p.m.
Fine Film: “The Treasure of Sierra Madre”
Hodson Hall
Love Auditorium

The SCUMs, however, support the total destruction of men and the absolute supremacy of women. A general consensus was reached
denouncing the female stereotype typified by television soap operas and commercial advertising in general. The major complaint, however, was the
discrimination evident in the job market. Several faculty wives expressed discontent at the difference in pay scales, and prejudice in
hiring and advancement.

Is Senator McGovern Believable?

This summer he went through six or seven men before finally finding someone who could run on his ticket with
him. Then he sent a public relations man to deal secretly with the North Vietnamese in Paris while our government's
negotiations were still going on. He first denied it, later he confirmed it. Such McGovern inconsistencies are not new: In
1967, Senator George McGovern said he was not an advocate of unilateral withdrawal of our troops from Vietnam. Now, of
course, he says he is. Last year, Senator McGovern said he would remove all American forces from Southeast Asia. Now
he wants to leave troops in Thailand and on ships in the area. In Florida, Senator McGovern said he was
pro-busing. In Oregon, he said he would support the anti-busing bill now in Congress. In 1971, Senator McGovern said Jerusalem
should be an international city. This year he wants to recognize Jerusalem as the Israeli capital and move the United
States embassy there from Tel Aviv.

President Nixon has earned the support of young Americans.

FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
Bonnie Kennedy (L307) or Robert Touchton (1203), Young Voters for the President
Paid for by Davidson College Young Voters for the President
