Page Ten January 7, 1972

The Davidsonian

Up ’n’ Coming

Friday, January 7
8 p.m. Artist Series: Javier Calderon
10:40 p.m. Movie: “John and Mary” Morrison Room

Saturday, January 8
8 p.m. Movie: “John and Mary” Morrison Room

Sunday, January 9
7 p.m. Fine Film: “Where East Is East” Love Auditorium
9 p.m. Fine Film: “King Kong” Love Auditorium

Monday, January 10
4:30 p.m. Fine Film: “Diary of a Chambermaid” Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Open End: SGA candidate: “Big Parade” Love Auditorium

Tuesday, January 11
7 p.m. Fine Film: “Mystery Film Magnificent” Love Auditorium
9 p.m. Fine Film: “Orpheus” Love Auditorium

Thursday, January 13
10:30 p.m. Fine Film: “Joseph’s Union” Love Auditorium

(Continued from Page 5)

women is in full evidence. But lurking beneath the surface is the belief that love and compassion can be reinstated
if only insecurity can be alleviated and communication established. Bogdanovich is particularly successful with his women characters because he is
graced with a plethora of great female performances. Ellen Burstyn as Vicky Lois Farrow, Cloris Leachman as sex-starved Ruth Popper,
and Cybill Shepherd, the 17-year-old Jacy Farrow who is both victim and victimizer, tragically destructive in her insecurity, give brilliantly
modulated performances.

But, ultimately, what makes “The Last Picture Show” such a moving and healthy experience for its audience is its steadfast
belief that the human spirit can survive anything, even its sins. Ben Johnson's beautiful performance as Sam the Lion proves
that a man can reckon with his past, cope during his life, and die an honorable death. In the face
of Timothy Bottoms, we realize that a younger version of Sam the Lion can survive the death of an era.
The Last Picture Show has beauty and resonance to the end because it explores the manure pits of the human
personality and never once denies but even reveals a human soul. (Reprinted from St. Jo-Hawk)

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti — Lasagne — Parmigiana — Salads — CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C. ~ Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

EASTERN DELTA SPRING VACATION
FEBRUARY 25 TO MARCH 6
For reservations and tickets on all airlines domestic and international SEE MRS. FLORENCE COLE
TUESDAY, JANUARY 11
College Union 10:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M.
or any Monday afternoon, Wednesday or Friday morning at the Village Store, Davidson.
Trexler Travel Information Center
BOAC TWA

Two Students Discuss War
By TOM BRUCE
Staff Writer

Resignation with the loss of East Pakistan and faith in the recovery of West Pakistan characterize the reactions of Pakistani
exchange students Jahangir Tareen and Nadeem Faizi. In separate interviews, the two students repeatedly used the same terms to describe
what they believed was the central issue of the recent war. Both believe that war was in India’s interests, interests
that dictated the dismemberment of Pakistan. “The West Pakistan army was sent into East Pakistanto suppress certain elements who believed
in independence from West Pakistan,” said Faizi. “This introduced a flow of refugees into India, providing a good excuse to
interfere with Pakistan’s internal affairs.” This idea was seconded by Tareen who said, “India has never reconciled herself to the
partition of the subcontinent and the secessionist movement in East Pakistan provided it with the excuse to attack and realize
its aim.”

A quasi-faith in the survival of the infant nation Bangladesh was voiced by both students, balancing their conviction with the
realization that it will be an Indian satellite, ‘the poorest nation in the world for a long time to come,”
in Faizi's words. Tareen stated that the new nation would survive under the combined efforts of the Indians and the
Russians who “will surely not let it collapse.” Both students predicted that India will act promptly to ensure the new
nation’s complete dependence on it for military and economic aid. Faizi noted that jute from East Bengal would be sought
by India, while the rice of India would be badly needed by the Bengalis: “In that case, the Indians will
keep their hold on Bangladesh for a long time and eventually dominate it entirely.” Tareen pointed out that India has
already transferred a number of its administrative officials to run Bangladesh.

Tareen's interest in the situation reached a high point when he inquired into the possibility of his returning home to
join in the war effort. When asked why he felt this obligation, Tareen replied, “The reason is very simple. My
country had been attacked and it was fighting for its very life. Sitting so far away, I felt helpless and
frustrated and felt that I needed to contribute something to the effort.”

Although Tareen had no criticism of present United States policy toward Pakistan, Faizi said that the major flaw in U.S.
foreign policy is “its gracious military aid to developing countries.” Under certain treaties, Pakistan receives aid from the United States;
this aid takes shape mostly in arms and weapons. “This is exactly what we do not need—we want only a
documented assurance that Pakistan is provided with adequate assistance for its defense,” Faizi said. “Foreign aid to Pakistan should be
in fields of education and research, agriculture, industries, and finally defense, in that order.” Faizi contended, however, that American partiality
toward West Pakistan prevented what might have developed “into a world crisis.” Faizi hastens to add, “This is not a
conceited viewpoint.”

Salads
The Coffee Cup
DEPOT ST.
6 a.m. - 7 p.m.
Breakfast served until 11:00 a.m.
Seafood—Sandwiches: home-cooked vegetables
“After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken

Desserts
Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room

THE RED HANGER
BUTCH HAS LOST HIS MIND
HE SAYS JANUARY IS WILDCAT MONTH
At The Red Hanger
BIG BARGAINS

SPECIAL GROUP OF SHIRTS
Values to 8.00 NOW 3.00

SPECIAL GROUP OF SPORT COATS
Values to 70.00 NOW 19.95

SPECIAL GROUP OF SLACKS
Values to 17.00 NOW 6.00

ALL REGULAR STOCK OF SUITS, SLACKS, SPORT COATS, SWEATERS, AND SHIRTS ALSO “GREATLY” REDUCED.

Starts Friday, Jan. 7th, 1972
WATCH FOR NEW SPECIALS THROUGHOUT JANUARY

THE RED HANGER
DAVIDSON, N.C.
