Che Vol. LXI No. Ten—14 Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 JANUARY 14, 1972 (Staff Photo by Campbell) TO THE VICTORS GO THE SPOILS Ralph Peeples and Rich Wilson enjoy cigars after election victory. Students Elect Peeples New SGA President | By BOB HOWELL Staff Writer The student body voted in its leaders Tuesday for the upcoming year. The polls recorded a turnout of approximately 80 per cent, according to Supervisor of Elections Bill Lear. The largest margin of any of the races was in that for President of the Student Government Association, where Ralph Peeples defeated Bill Alexander 565 votes to 214, carrying 72.53 per cent of the total. Rich Wilson secured 60.66 per cent of the votes cast in the contest for Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, beating Gray Wilson 461 to 299. Jim Campbell was elected as Social Council President over Miles Ward, getting 395 votes to 318, a 55.4 per cent total. The only run-off called for is in the election of Miscellany Editor. Frank Erwin received 335 votes (46.08%), Bob Bolick got 236 (32.46%), and the team of Joe Earle and Jim Hanna came up with 156 votes (21.46%). Lear indicated that the run-off between Erwin and Bolick will be held along with the elections of class senators next Tuesday, Jan. 18. Paul Yarbrough carried the election of YMCA Vice-presidency and 55.17% of the votes cast, as he defeated Wilson Gunn 352 to 286. The team of Jeff Allender and Bill Howland was successful over Robert Corlew, securing 55.13% of the votes, 387 to 315 to become co-station managers of WDAV. The closest race was the one in which an election was actually unnecessary. Skip Holcombe and Rob Krebs had intended to run as joint candidates for Freshman Advisor, reports Lear, but registered independently. They were the only two candidates running, and Holcombe carried 50.23%, “winning” by just three votes. In the referendum concerning the Senate’s policy which denies the legitimacy of write-in votes, 542 votes were cast for “Yes” and 226 for “No,” indicating that 70.57% of the voters did not approve of the Senate’s policy. However, the constitution states that a referendum must represent two-thirds of the entire student body to override a decision of the Senate, so the measure was not passed, and the Senate’s policy remains. In the election for rising Senior Class members of the Hearing Committee, the three victors were Joel Bradly with 123 votes (29.5%), Mike Stovall with 116 (27.82%), and Butch Barton with 110 (26.38%), over David Varner with 68 votes. The rising Junior Class also elected three representatives to the Hearing Committee: David Bender Senators To Be Selected Tuesday By Student Body By BOB HOWELL Staff Writer The candidates for Senators at-large from the respective classes have officially filed for registration and will be elected this Tuesday, January 18, according to Supervisor of Elections, Bill Lear. “We'll definitely need to have some run-offs the following day, due to the large number of candidates involved,” observed Lear. Running for the three senatorial positions from the rising Senior Class are Lee Farnell, Steve Suflas, Bill Meier, and Mike Creasman. The candidates from the rising Junior Class, three of whom will be elected, are Bill Barnes, Mitchell Purvis, Bo Phillips, Murray Hawkinson, James Shepherd, Mack Mitchell, Bill Thorne, Herb Dimmock, Hall Whitworth, John Knox, and Frank Smith. Seeking election to the three positions available to the rising Sophomore Class are Vince Rabil, John Cassels, Will Robertson, Don Rhodes, Robert Corlew, Tom Parks, Blain Butner, John Hornickel, Bill Smith, John Moon, Chuck Gladu, and Bill Clark. Reggie Kennedy and Bobbie Blackwood filed a joint registration for senator at large for the Senior Class but in accordance with the by-laws of the constitution, they will not be allowed to run together. However, they will each be given the opportunity to run separately, Lear said. In addition to these offices, there were three registrations for the two positions open on the Review Board. Running are senior Dwight Grady and juniors David Hanig and Tom Case. Bill Rolland registered unopposed for the position of Off-campus senator, and is therefore elected by acclamation. As in last Tuesday's election, the polls in the lobby of the Chambers Building and the Post Office will be open from 8:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m., Lear said. The candidate in each class receiving the highest number of votes will be elected the president of his respective class. In last week’s election story we forgot to mention that Larry Duncan ran unopposed for YMCA President. THE DAVIDSONIAN regrets the error.With 166 votes (31.26%), Steve Johnson with 141 (26.55%), and Jim Lehnberg with 121 (22.79%), over David Duggins with 103 votes. There were only three candidates for Hearing Committee from the rising Sophomore Class, so elected by acclamation were Buck Farrow, Steve Dodd, and Rick Love. “We may have the ballots for next week’s election on computer cards,” Lear added, “which would greatly speed up the process of getting the returns back.” He referred to the fact that these last returns were in an hour and a half later than initially predicted, since each vote had to be transferred from the ballot sheets to computer cards.

Clodfelter Reviews Past Year

I was asked by a member of THE DAVIDSONIAN staff this week to make some sort of summary statement about this year in student government. It’s hard to collect one’s thoughts about something like this without them emerging in “pithy statements” or “wise pronouncements”; all I really have is a series of unconnected observations that may never cohere—that’s the nature of a year in student government at Davidson.

It has been a hard year to grasp tangible accomplishments, but I think perhaps that other criteria are more important anyway. With little real power, student government accomplishments seem always to be rather vague and questionable. An administrator is influenced by what a student leader says, or someone agrees to open the policy process a bit—these are all that I can see. In some ways, the past year has been the time of simmering, the heating up of a number of issues before they break into a boil. It’s the time between the first clear articulation of a position and the beginnings of real movement that are the most frustrating.

When the new administration entered office last year, we were at the end of a series of what I would call “old style issues,” things like self-scheduled exams and students on various committees. The year has seen a transition from issues of this type to more basic ones, such as coeducation and governance. If anything can be said to have been achieved at all, I think it is the defining of the major issues for the coming years and the first steps to mobilize students on those issues.

Even where there was a specific problem—the senate’s decision to rehire Meredith Hall after the administration had cut this portion of counseling funds from the budget, the report on the comprehensive fee, or the interaction of the senate with the Educational Policy Committee in redrawing the physical education program—the real accomplishment was in forcing administrators and faculty to recognize that the student viewpoint had to receive consideration before any decision could be made.

Probably the greatest frustration was the time wasted on trivia; eternal referenda on minor questions, procedural disputes, the Rennie Davis issue, etc., where there may have been some momentary controversy or thrill but where little of significance to the basic student concerns was at stake. I think much of the needless dissipation of energy in student government comes from the inability of the senate to define its role on the campus. Implicit in every debate on every issue was the question of whether the senate should be primarily a forum for debate and communication or a working group. The question is still unresolved. Who or what is the senate?

Perhaps more than immediately preceding presidents, I was determined to try to let the senate carry a major share of the student government responsibility. It will be some time, if ever, before I can decide the wisdom of this course. The year’s experience, however, has convinced me of the need to separate the executive officers—president and vice-president—from the senate, freeing them for what are more properly their functions, lobbying, speaking, pressing issues, and allowing the senate to assert its independence and stand or fall on its own.

One of the most encouraging developments of the year has been the awakening of a small but growing number of students who are interested in developing independent and more comprehensive programs of simple student services, ranging all the way to such things as student-owned bookstores and travel and legal cooperatives. Here is an area where Davidson has much to learn from other schools, but the value of increasing emphasis here is clear. Student government has too long been purely political; it must begin to acknowledge and develop the service aspect of its responsibilities to the student body. Here is where we can finally realize the value of organizations such as NSA.

So much of the success of (See, CLODFELTER, Page 8)