Che Bavidsonian

The Search For ‘Deliverance’

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
OCTOBER 13, 1972

Voting Delay

Students found themselves somewhat confused this week when the college notary refused to notarize election application forms. It was just
two weeks ago that College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. vigorously encouraged students to participate in the fall elections. The
process of notarizing the forms is a simple one requiring little time or effort; yet, college officials in the Business
Office refused to perform this small service which they maintained was “an annoyance.” Not only that, but several individual students
were rudely treated when they simply inquired about notarization.

This is not the first time we have received complaints about the treatment of students in certain offices of the
administration. Although some students may not act in a manner which deserves polite attention, by and large students are usually
friendly animals that will not become riled unless provoked. The incident this week about notarization may appear to some to
be small potatoes, but it is symptomatic of a larger prevailing attitude among some administrators and secretaries that students are
their enemies. We find this disappointing.

The administration exists to help the students get an education, not perpetuate its own existence. An inquiry from a student
should not be considered an intrusion, but rather an opportunity to help. When you think about it, it really isn’t
very hard to smile at another person. In fact, most people will respond in a similar fashion.

Little's Generosity

The dream of every college is a special benefactor who, though not an alumnus or parent of a student, will
volunteer his help in the building of academic excellence. John Harvard, James B. Duke, and John D. Rockefeller, Jr. come
to mind. Davidson has such a special friend in E. H. Little, a man for whom an existing dorm is
named and whose name the new library will bear. Little, a self-made millionaire, has given time and money to help
Davidson become one of the finest colleges in the South. He has given of himself countless times to the betterment
of the College, not only in monetary ways but also through service on the Board of Visitors.

We believe that E. H. Little deserves the appreciation of the academic community and the admiration which should be accorded
a true leader in the efforts for educational superiority at the college. We welcome him to come and visit again.

Fall Scenes

Just as sleep again fills the mind, the horrible murmur of the electric sundial warns of the approach of eight
o'clock and the long day which must soon begin. Out from under the cover darts a fast arm, silencing the
noisy menace for the time being. A few more precious minutes and, all too soon, the Chamber Maids resound with
the clanging of the ten ‘till eight warning. Slowly, resentfully, the covers are thrown back and an ill-clad body climbs
from its resting place, none too anxious for the sharp shock of the cold floor and the air outside. Without
thinking, this week's worn jeans and jersey are slipped around the shivering body, accompanied this morning by a sweater and
jacket. A mad scramble for books and pencil is capped by a quick run from the dorm to Chambers, during
which the trees seem to be freeing themselves of their only protection in haphazard disarray.

Fall has come, and all somehow seems different—fresher, newer, more exciting. Maybe it's only the weather. Perhaps it’s hope of
better things to come.

A Review
By BOB WRIGHT
Staff Writer

It was Saturday and the city was as hot as hell. Dave and Veronica called about noon and made a
date for dinner and maybe a movie afterwards. From the table I heard Sharon's “OK, fine. About six over here?
Sure. See you later.”

“Now what the hell did you tell them that for?” I said as she stepped back into the kitchen. “You
know I can't stand Dave at the movies. He considers himself the greatest non-publishing critic in the Western World. He
drives me crazy."

“Well, see if you can put up with him just for tonight,” she said. “It's their anniversary and we ought
to be nice to them.”

“All right, but let's see if we can forego the movies and just serve drinks or something after dinner.”

“We'll see,” she said, “but don't push it. It is their anniversary.”

I worked all day on some reports for work through what...must have been the hottest day of the year. The
air conditioning in the building broke down about 4 p.m. I walked down to the park to cool off and
to get out of the apartment while Sharon made preparations for the dinner that night. Outside, the heat was a
little less than unbearable. The streets overflowed with afternoon traffic and the smell was intense. Asphalt has a reflective quality
that will throw heat up in your face as you walk over it, so it seemed hotter on the streets
than inside. Garbage lay rotting on the curbs all along the route to the park. Even in the park itself,
it was impossible to escape the smell or the heat either. At least grass doesn't hit you with heat from
below. Water does though, as I found out by the lake. Water's just as bad as concrete. When I got
home, Dave and Veronica were already there. We had a few anniversary drinks, then sweltered through dinner because the air
conditioning wasn't fixed yet. As we drank our coffee (iced) afterwards, I realized there was no way to stay in
the place that night. I, for one, had to get out of there and into some air conditioning. We discussed
movie possibilities for a few minutes and then hurried across town to see ‘Deliverance.’ Inside the theatre, it was as
cool as could be expected with the place as crowded as it was. I generally like adventure movies and “Deliverance”
had plenty of fast action. Lots of white water canoeing and fine photography. I also like Jon Voigt’s style of
acting. He never plays a stereotyped character but manages to show every important side of the man he is playing.
I liked him the best. Afterwards, as we were fighting 11 p.m. traffic, I said as much. Veronica and Sharon
agreed that Burt Reynolds was the best looking of the four main characters and therefore their favorite in the movie.
Dave, for once, was silent. Conversation turned to other matters until we reached home. Dave still hadn't spoken. Sharon insisted
on serving drinks at our place, so she and Veronica retired to the kitchen while Dave and I sat on
the couch.

“Well, thank God they got the air conditioning fixed," I said.

“Yeah,” he replied, “but someday they won't. Someday ‘they’ won't get anything fixed. And then...survival. Just like Burt Reynolds said."

“Yeah, but look what happens to him. That river kicked the shit out of him. And it killed that Drew
guy. Hell, even Jon Voigt almost got killed."

“Uh, huh. That's right,” he said.

We sat in silence for a minute until the women came in with drinks. An hour later, we stood on
the curb and said our goodbyes.

“Dave,” I said as the girls talked of babies and shopping, “do you really believe that stuff about it all
coming down to survival in the end?”

“No,” he said, “not survival... deliverance. They’re two different things.”

We didn’t see Dave or Veronica for a while, and the next time we called them, there was somebody else
living in their apartment.

“I think they left the city for good,” the landlord told us. “Veronica was pregnant and Dave just couldn't stand
the streets anymore.”

Today the air conditioning broke down again. Dave would be pleased.

---

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

The Cosmopolitans open the Queens College Artist Series in Dana Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. Tuesday. The four performers bring Operatic,
Broadway, and American frontier stages together in their music. Season tickets to the four Artist Series productions are $8. Individual
tickets are available for $2.50.

The Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre will perform Monday at 8 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. Tickets are $3, $4, and
$5. The company will also conduct an informal demonstration session in the Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum of Art
Wednesday at 8 p.m.

Gold and Fizdale will open the Community Concert series in Ovens Auditorium on Oct. 20 at 8:15 p.m. Admission to
the duo-pianists’ concert is by season ticket only. Tickets are $10, $15, and $20 and are good for the five
concerts of the season.

“Under the Yum Yum Tree” opens this weekend at the Independence Dinner Theatre. The buffet opens at 6:30 p.m. with
the curtain rising at 8:30. Tickets are $8 Thursday and $9 Friday and Saturday.

“Don't Drink The Water” continues at the Pineville Dinner Theatre with performances nightly except Monday. The buffet opens at 7
p.m. with the curtain rising at 8:30. Tickets are $7 to $10, varying with the night.
