ALAN BARAGONA
The Davidsonian
April 21, 1972
Page Five

Mott The Wopple Robs Numb Elroy?

I had dreaded its coming, though I knew it would come. Someday my heritage had to catch up to me.
The Wopple World spares no man. So it was no surprise, really, when he walked in on that ominous post-night,
as the Fates would have it, at 4 am. I looked up and he was there: Don Guappo Lasagna, silent,
cold, hands thrust deep into his trenchcoat pockets, with Bruno the Pug slobbering at his side. Don Guappo had done
me a favor once, had sent one of his boys to have “a little talk” with Dr. Abernethy for my
first term freshman Humanities. Years gone by. But not forgotten; and now the Don had returned for the payoff. The
vigorish, I knew, would be high.

A word about Don Guappo Lasagna. Don Guappo is the overlord of the Davidson family of the Mature Adults for
Freedom in Italian America (M-A-F-I-A). He dresses in a $2000 suit, dirty underwear, and an ever-present Stetson, the sign of
his power, A POWER MIGHTIER THAN MORAY THE EEL. When Don Guappo walks down the street, the sidewalk moves out
of his way.

---

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Coed Committee Seeks Help: Janitorial Personnel Defended

To the Editor:

It seems as though, with the faculty approval of the coeducation report, many students are of the opinion that there
will be 100 girls on campus next fall when they return. Hopefully, there will be close to 100 girls here
next year, but unless action is taken now, there will be only 35 to 40 coeds in 1972-73. The administration
does not seem to expect to see 100 women on campus next year. Mrs. Nicholls, as indicated by the allotment
of only ONE floor of Little for coeds (one floor of Little and Grey House will house about 35 women),
does not expect many more coeds to enroll between now and September. Therefore, the students have a responsibility to help
in the recruitment of girls to this campus next year. If you know of any qualified girls who might be
interested in attending Davidson next year, please submit the names and addresses to a member of the Special Committee For
Recruitment Of Coeds for next year.

Davidson students have complained about the lack of women on campus long enough. It is now time for us to
take advantage of the situation which faces us. Every student on this campus owes it to himself to help this
committee's work. It is POSSIBLE that 100 girls will be enrolled at Davidson next year, but it will take work.
Your help will be appreciated.

Special Committee For Coed Recruitment for 1972-73
Sandy May
Tom Bernhard ‘74
Mark Monson ‘74
Bo Phillips ‘74
Mitch Purvis ‘74

---

Davidson College

To the Editor:

We have a couple of things to say about the way certain of our more zealous students are criticizing the
custodians because of the “unclean restrooms.” It seems that these scholars are uneasy about the fact that they may have
to sit on a non-porcelain commode or lack the Turkish towels so abundantly provided by the servants back home in
Snobbian Heights. If dogs can hit a fire hydrant, you big boys can hit a urinal. Dirt from your bodies
goes down the little hole between your feet in the shower. Other than that, how can the restrooms become dirty?
Now if you are making a mess, that’s a different matter. Just because you are a student here doesn’t mean
that you can’t clean up your own little messes. If you miss, OK, just clean it up.

Normally we would be too apathetic to write this letter, but you are attacking our favorite people on this campus.
Dan, Henry, and others have cheered us up or helped us one way or another when nobody else was interested.
Sometimes when we laugh and joke around with these guys, we realize that they are as much a part of
our education as any faculty member. From our first day at Davidson, we have found the janitors to be friendly
and willing to do anything for us, and more. Many times they have cleaned up messes that nobody else would
even approach. They do a whole lot, but they’re not your mother or your slave. In all honesty, maybe the
bathrooms aren’t spotless. But the men who clean the dorms are underpaid, and don’t get the respect they deserve from
many students. Of all the things that need attacking and correcting around this place, it’s a shame that some students
can’t see outside their dorm room. Of things most needing improvement around here,the custodians don’t even make the top 100
list. And as for the idea of hiring work-study students in place of the present custodians, you won't find many
“Davidson gentlemen” willing to do it at any price. And by removing these men, the students would be robbed of
some of the only contacts with real people that are available to them here. We would like to raise a
protest on behalf of our favorite people. We think the janitors' salaries should be raised significantly. The man who cares
for our dorm is paid $86 a week ($68 after taxes and Social Security), and he has worked here fourteen
years. He has to work an extra job on top of these 40 hours in order to survive. This should
embarrass the people at Davidson who claim they have some compassion for the Black dilemma, just because they allow a
few black students to enter the student body and assign a room in an old house as the Black clubhouse.
Come on Davidson, you’re not fooling anybody. Pay the janitors what you would pay a white man who works here
the same hours. How about giving their wives, children, and friends the same privileges you give to faculty families?

Jim Winn '72
Eddie Vint '72
Davidson College

Only The Best For Married Students?

We call him The Man. His friends call him Sir. “Awright, Mott,” he said to me, “I’se come to collect
on dat debt youse owes me. I gots an operation here what’s taking over all Davidson. I gots a man
now in the Wildcat Den (watch what youse orders); Bruno here’s got Holland under his thumb (here Bruno leapt wildly,
flailing his arms, spewing saliva everywhere); I bought Senator Rowland’s seat in the Senate—cheap; and Sam Spencer will soon have
a chauffeur of Italian-American descent, a little junkie from 42nd Street. But it all means nuttin’ unless we crushes da
spirit of Davidson. As head of da post-night mob, youse gots to help me buy da fountain from Numb Elroy!”

“Gasp!” I gasped, apropos to the situation. Never had the possibility occurred to me. Rob Numb Elroy of his dried-up
fountain, rob Davidson of meaning! But I would have done anything to stop Bruno from drooling all over me, so
we set out. Don Guappo wanted the whole post-night crew as a show of force. We gathered them as we
went. Katamite Kayrat was chopping Oak Row in half with his fist, just for practice. The Cockasnook was yelling obscenities
at the Chambers maidens. We had to take out five minutes to extract Flakely the Cat from a mailbox he
had broken into. Finally, as a political mouthpiece, we found Senator Rowland, who came along shouting, “Datta, Dayadhvam, Damyata!”

Cautiously, we approached Numb Elroy. Serene on his tower, Numb Elroy was so thin as not to be seen, his
pale, naked body barely catching the spectral light that played halo-like around him. He blinked. “Awright, Elroy, kid, we come
to make youse an offer. I’ll give you the Coffee Cup, a jukebox, and a pair of BVD’s for only
10 percent of youse take and da rights to youse fountain here.” Eyes wide with bewilderment, Numb Elroy said nothing.
“Kill him!” shrieked Bruno. “Kill him!”

“Quiet, bile brain. Okay, Elroy, I'll throw in C. D. Cornell’s Popcorn Emporium.” Numb Elroy switched his legs in his
lotus position and remained silent. Don Guappo quivered with frustration. “Blast him!” squealed Bruno. “Blast him!”

“Button it, mushmouth. Elroy, I don’t likes youse amplitude. This is youse last chance. I'll give youse the ELIXIR OF
LIFE.” Whereupon the Don pulled out a jar of Maxwell House. At last Numb Elroy smiled. In his eyes, I
could see the self-assurance that he and the fountain, that parched derelict of the past, could never part, that he
with his pedestal were one with the Spirit of Davidson, transcendent, inviolable, supreme. I waited for Numb Elroy’s words of
wisdom that would end the contest. He began to speak. “Kiss off, dago.”

The conflict ended. The forces of the Don dispersed. Katamite Kayrat to split Main Street along the white line, the
Cockasnook to draw French Art on the side of Grey House, Flakely the Cat to break into the Chambers candy
machines. And Senator Rowland went off to continue an in-depth study of government documents on the academic effects of bicycle
racks on college campuses. Don Guappo was crushed. Shaking his head, he came with me as we left Numb Elroy
secure in his position. “Shoulda killed him,” slavered Bruno. “Shoulda killed him.” The Don grimaced. “Youse just can’t reason with
these people.”
