Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Page Eight February 11, 1972 The Davidsonian

SC-Leading Wildcats Tackle Cocks

By JOE EARLE Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcats took an undisputed lead in the Southern Conference regular season play with a hard-fought win over the
Furman Paladins last Tuesday. The 'Cats avenged an earlier defeat by Joe Williams’ hordes with a 79-75 win on Furman's
home court. Davidson's big man, Eric Minkin, attributed the win to a greater feeling of confidence among the team members.
(Staff photo by Doty)

PENETRATING THE PALADIN PRESS Marshall Case fights off Paladin Ed Kelley.

"We're playing better now," he said, "and we have more of a team feeling. People aren't saying that this is
a slack year in Davidson's basketball history any more, and we expect to do better."

The 'Cats played much of the game without the services of point man Mike Sorrentino who fouled out early in
the second period, and without Minkin who was forced to sit out several minutes with four fouls. Marshall Case came
into the 'Cat lineup to replace Sorrentino and did an outstanding job of breaking down the Paladin defense and moving
the ball for the Davidson team. Defense strength of the Paladins, whose guards Don Jackson and sophomore Ed Kelly pressed
Sorrentino and Case and forced 21 turnovers.

"Our biggest problem," stated Paladin head coach Joe Williams, "was not being able to convert our turnovers into points."

Leading scorers for the Davidson cagers were Joe Sutter who put in 18, followed by Minkin with 13 and Sorrentino
with 12. Sorrentino held the high scoring position for both teams at halftime with 12 points.

The win will give the Wildcats top seeding in the conference tournament March 2-4. The winner of the tournament will
be declared as the winner of the conference. This year the tourney will be held at...

Lowry Sparks Wildkittens To Fourteenth At Furman

By TOM AINSWORTH News Editor

In Tuesday night's freshman basketball game, in which the now 14-1 Wildkittens pulled out an 89-86 win from Furman in
an overtime period, the biggest man on the floor was also the smallest. 5-10 guard Jim Lowry, after suffering a
knee injury midway through the second period, came back in the second half, and scored nine of the eleven points
in the five-minute overtime segment to clinch the game for the 'Kittens. Lowry scored fourteen points in all.

As to his injury, team physician Dr. William A. Davis Jr. could only define it as a "severe sprain," with
no specific damage occurring to any ligaments or cartilage. Ironically, Tim Spencer, Lowry’s replacement at the guard position, also suffered
much the same type of injury to his knee in the contest, in which his ligaments were strained, according to
Davis. Davis is hopeful that the two will be back in a week.

Until recently, however, Lowry was not really a scoring power. Yet in the past few games, he has averaged 15.5
points, being high man in the 'Kittens' romp over V.M.I. by an 84-59 margin. Besides being an excellent ball handler
and passer, Lowry has achieved a high level of confidence in his style of play and the ability to measure
up to the scoring potential of the big men on the team.

Lowry banked in six field goals from the floor in Saturday’s game at The Citadel, amassing 13 points, third in
scoring on the team behind Larry Horowitz's 20 and Greg Dunn’s 16, as the Wildkittens downed the Bullpups, 76-57. Yet
it was in the Furman game which Lowry demonstrated his...Talent, after cinching the lead with less than a minute to
play in the extended time with a lay-up drive, on which he was fouled. By making the subsequent free throw,
Lowry put the Kittens in an 87-82 advantage, enough to ensure victory. All this happened with center Sheldon Parker fouled
out with 10 points and forward Horowitz on the bench with 17. The only big man left on the court
for the Kittens was Dunn, who ended up tied for the game's scoring lead with 29 points. All this notoriety
hasn't phased Lowry in the least. He was “unavailable for comment.”

The Kittens put their 14-game winning streak on the line this week, meeting the South Carolina freshmen in Columbia, and
the Imps in Charlotte Saturday at Duke Blue Wednesday. The game was played in Greenville, S.C. for the first time.
In previous years it has been held in Charlotte. Minkin pointed out the improvements the team has made over the
season and expressed optimism on the 'Cats outcome in the tournament, where Davidson and Furman are expected to meet again.
“It’ll be a lot easier to do next time,” he stated. “Besides, with Falconi back we'll beat them by 20.”

Tomorrow the 'Cats tackle the Gamecocks of the University of South Carolina in the first of a four-game non-conference sweep
that closes their regular season play. The Gamecocks have done well in their first year as an independent, reaching as
high as third in the national polls. The game will be televised at 1 p.m. The 'Cats still have a
shot at a 20-win season with four regular season games and the tournament to add to their 16-5 record. After
the play to match with the Gamecocks, the 'Cats return to Charlotte to host ACC power Duke, Dayton, and a
return match with USC.

Leading scorer John Falconi had his cast removed Wednesday and, according to the doctors, should be ready to return to
action by the Dayton contest. Falconi injured his foot in the Wake Forest game and has been on crutches and
out of action since.

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-2111

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Complete Prescription Service
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.—Wed 9 to 12
Davidson, N.C.
Cosmetics—Russell Stover Candies
Sundries—Toiletries
Sun. 9:30 to 10:30
131 N. Main St.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N.C.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA
GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:
Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer—North Carolina’s nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach
and New Bern. 25th year. Camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship plus all usual camping activities. Opportunities for students (college
men and women) and teachers who are looking for more than just another summer job. Openings for NURSES (RN). June
7—August 18. We instruct in one phase of the camp’s program, seek highly qualified (ability to coach), dedicated and enthusiastic
staff members with exemplary character and offer in return good salaries, board and lodging, plus the opportunity of sharing in
a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O.
Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina, 27605.

Rendezvous in Charlotte at La Roma Ristoranti
BEST PIZZA WEST of ITALY
Spaghetti—Lasagne—Parmigiana—Salads—CHOICE STEAKS
La Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N.C.
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

The Hub
OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY
