Page Two January 21, 1971

The Davidsonian

Guest House Site Gains Approval Of Campus

By THOM NICOLL
Staff Writer

Reaction this week to the Union Board's proposal to move the College Union functions to the Guest House seems to represent at least a consensus of conditional approval.

SGA President Ralph Peeples stated that the plan is probably the most practical short-range measure, though he found the idea somewhat disappointing. “You really don't realize the need for large meeting rooms until you lose them. I'm also concerned about important student offices such as THE DAVIDSONIAN and the SGA offices," he said. "I'm not sure about how they'll fit into the new plan. However, I think that this has been researched fairly well. I hope that the college remembers that their first responsibility is to the student body, especially the freshmen," he continued. "The way the union space is appropriated will indicate the administration's attitudes. Are they going to try to serve the student’s needs?”

Dean of Students Will Terry echoed one of Peeples' statements. "Until we started to tear down the Union, no one seemed that attached to it. The Union is no great center through which all students pass, except the freshmen. The activities of the Union Board, which are very important, can be carried on adequately in the Guest House. All we really need is a hub out of which to operate. The social functions of the college will be changed in the near future anyway, especially with co-education, which is inevitable,” he said. “This move will enable us to change the entire focus of social life, which may become more centered in the dorms. The move will damage us only if we let it because of negative attitudes,” Terry said.

Vice-President of Academic Affairs John Bevan approved the move, emphasizing, however, that it was only a temporary measure. He also discussed the new Union, and stated, “Before we make any decisions, we had best take a hard look at our definition of student life. The statement in the catalog is hardly adequate. We need to sit down and determine what are our goals for the individual student and what is the purpose of the social life of the school,” he said. With these considerations, I think the Guest House will be temporarily adequate.”

John Hornickel, who served as chairman of the Senate's Future of the Union committee, approved the plan. “It’s not perfect, but we can live with it,” he said. “Its inadequacies will remind the administration that they are committed to build a new Union.” Hornickel also emphasized the need for basic decisions about social life, and the factor of coeducation.

Midwinters Program Unveiled

By JOE EARLE

With the move from the present Union building to the temporary facilities in the Guest House nearing, the Union Board is proposing and testing some renovations in its present social programs. Some of these new ideas will be reflected in Midwinters, scheduled for Feb. 11 and 12.

Midwinters will feature more large-scale entertainment this year, leaving most of the smaller social functions that usually filled past weekends to the fraternities. The Union Social Council has been working closely with the fraternities to coordinate parties and other small-group social life. The weekend will open with a concert featuring Danny Cox, a black blues and folk singer. Cox will appear at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Following Cox's performance, the Popular Film Committee will present The Owl and the Pussycat in the Morrison Room of the Union and fraternities will...

Associate Editors:
BOBBY ALLEN
CECIL BURNEY
TODD HORBBIE
HOWARD RAMAGLI

Managing Editors:
GRAY WILSON
RICHARD WILSON

News Editor:
DAVID HANIG

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

Photography Editor:
BILL BARNES

Assistant Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ROBERT TOUCHTON
ALEC HOON

Copy Editors:
JAMES HANNA
BILL ELLETT
LEX VEAZEY

Assistant Sports Editor:
A. W. TURNER
CHARLIE TERRELL
HOWARD BOYD

Cartoonists:
TERRY HIRST
STEVE BALCUM

Circulation Managers:
STEVE SHEPHERD
GREG MITCHELL

Photographers:
TOM CAMPBELL
FRANK ERWIN
JOE RODRIGUEZ

Contributors this Week:
Tom Ainsworth, David Arant, Bruce Becker, Mark Brown, Tom Bruce, Pete Celantano, Steve Cross, Kurt Geisinger, Bill Giduz, Bob Howell, Thom Nicoll, and Mike Tanner.

Published weekly at Davidson, N. C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N. C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N. C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

(Staff Photo by Campbell)

SOLD FOR ONE DOLLAR
Southern Railroad donates depot for youth center.

From Depot To Youth Center

By JAMES HANNA
Staff Writer

Youngsters in the town of Davidson will have a student-operated youth center by the spring of this year if financial roadblocks can be overcome. YMCA President Adrian Long said that the feasibility of moving and renovating the old Southern Railroad depot...On De- have their parties. Activities on Patterson Court during the weekend will be open. The Davidson Wildcats will tackle the USC Gamecocks Saturday afternoon in Columbia, S.C., and that game will be televised. Saturday night The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band will perform in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. Following that concert, some of the new proposals will go into effect in the form of a “night club” in Chambers Dining Hall. The hall will be redecorated and improved acoustically to make a more pleasing and relaxed atmosphere, according to Social Council Chairman Jim Campbell. A new stage will be erected at the opposite end of the hall from the present stage area, with a thrust stage which will allow the performers to move around. Students will be able to sit directly in front of the stage, and around the thrust stage, on mattresses or at tables at the rear of the room. The middle area will serve as a dance floor. Two bars will be in operation during the concerts, one serving beer and one mixers. The “Chambers Night Club” will feature The Hampton Grease Band, a rock band from Atlanta, and Bette Midler, a favorite of The Johnny Carson Show. These acts will alternate sets and run until approximately 3 a.m. The movie will be shown for a second time Saturday night, and the Union Bar will remain open the entire weekend.

Pot Street was being studied by the Business Office of the college. “My only fear is that this project is going to turn out to be terribly expensive,” said Long. Long explained that the cost of the center will include moving the building to a college-owned lot, completely finishing the interior, and hiring a part-time director for the center. “The inside of the building will have to be completely remodeled, since there isn't anything in it right now,” said Long. “We don't want anything fancy or plush, but we do need offices for the YMCA and STEP programs next year, and we'd like to have rooms for the STEP tutors to take their pupils, instead of the tutors having to go to the schools,” he said. Long said that the YMCA has allocated two thousand dollars of its funds towards completion of the project, but that the rest of the money will have to come from other sources. “The Southern Railroad Company will sell us the building for one dollar, and the college will provide the lot, but we need to see how much the whole thing will cost before we can go ahead,” said Long. “We hope to get our operating expenses from the United Community Service organization, and the town council has offered to reallocate the funds from the two teen canteens that are being closed down, but this does not meet our immediate needs,” he said. Long was critical of the Davidson town council for what he calls the council's “lack of responsiveness” toward the center. “The council is pretty tight-fisted, and they don’t see the need for a youth center,” said Long. “In fact, I don't think any of the members of the council have teen-aged children.” Long said that the YMCA has asked the council for funds to help get the center under way, but that the “not large amount” of money formerly going to the two canteens was the only aid the council would permit. “We've been planning this for nearly a year now, and hopefully, if the money becomes available, we can open the center by spring-time,” said Long.

African Political Scientist To Speak At Davidson
By DAVID HANIG
Staff Writer

The Co-curricular Committee and the Union are jointly sponsoring a Black Arts Festival to give the Davidson student some idea of Black culture in Africa and the United States. The Festival consists of several events from January to April, the first of which was Vinie Burrow’s show “Walk Together, Children.” The climax of the Festival will be Ali A. Mazrui, professor of political science at Makerere University in Uganda, who will be on campus April 4 through 6 as a Reynolds Lecturer. According to Peter U. Sterling, Union program coordinator, Mazrui is the leading African political scientist today. According to Sterling, “the purpose of these programs—all of which can stand by themselves—is cultural. We wanted the Davidson student to have some background before Dr. Mazrui speaks here.” As part of the Festival, the Union will show 10 lunch films starting in February and is renting a collection of African art to be exhibited in April. Lester Strong is producing Leroy Jones’ one-act play “The Dutchman,” and The Friendship Baptist Church Choir from Charlotte will sing in April on campus. Sterling stated that Shirley Chisholm, congresswoman from New York, and poetess Gwendolyn Brooks had both been invited but that, as yet, the Union had received no answer from them.