Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR OCTOBER 6, 1972

Religious Limitations

This week the Education Committee of the Board of Trustees will consider Davidson’s policies concerning tenure of faculty members. In such discussions, the issue of the religious requirement for tenure is bound to be debated. It is a highly controversial issue. Many faculty members disagree with the policy but are afraid to say so publicly. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. didn’t even want to be quoted on the issue. We find such attitudes perplexing.

The issue at hand is not whether Davidson will maintain its Christian character. This college is currently committed to the Christian faith and we believe Christian principles to be central to the quality of life on campus. Instead, however, the issue is that the religious requirement limits the quality of education that students may receive here. By requiring that tenured Davidson professors must be “active members” of the Christian church, the trustees severely limit the field of quality professors from which this college may hire. We can envision a situation in the future where the college might be forced to hire a second-class man simply on the basis that no first-rate active Christian professors are available to come here.

This religious limitation has other effects as well. It forces the faculty members to conform to a religion for the sake of their job. They must profess a faith which many may not believe in their hearts. Such hypocrisy will undermine the character of this college. In essence, we believe this religious limitation is a failing attempt to artificially support the Christian faith here. A strong and true faith is not destroyed by a few objections; rather, such intelligent consideration of a faith should strengthen the Christian convictions of the students here. This college is violating the principles of its own purpose by enforcing religious conformity among its faculty.

Certainly, the administration can strive to hire active members of the Christian church, and by and large, we encourage them to do so. But to maintain an ambiguous rule arbitrarily enforced on the faculty of this college will ultimately undermine what religious spirit still exists on campus. We hope that the Education Committee will recommend to the board this fall that the religious limitation on tenured professors be dropped. Such an act will not weaken Davidson's Christian commitment but strengthen it.

A Good Thing

Last year Davidson instituted a new system of judicial procedure regarding student conduct which is based on flexibility and right of appeal. The plan is basically good, and it is working well. But the system presents Davidson with some real questions and some potential problems. The system is tied to the personality of a particular dean, and based on the synthesis of his dual position as counselor and disciplinarian. Will Terry has handled the situation well as he was expected to do when it was put into operation. But someone else might not react so well to the admittedly difficult dual role, and the students and administration cannot sit back forever and bask in his personality.

We encourage students to read the Code of Responsibility and its regulations. In interviews this week, some had no idea what the Code proscribes, and this senseless innocence could cause them difficulties in the future. Davidson has a good thing going. The governance system so far appears moderate, responsible, and responsive, but the college cannot risk the chance of destroying its good thing through negligence, ignorance, or unconcern.

ALAN BARAGONA

Numb Elroy Gets Information On ‘Der Goot Coolered Volk’

Where do they go, those people lost to history? Scholar upon scholar has pondered what gulf swallows them up, all searching in vain. Until now. Until one of my own friends has joined their ranks. Not long ago, at the 4 a.m. pickup, my friend the Masked Nid (rest easy; you don’t know him) received a letter stamped with a green leaf and returned addressed “K.K., Davidson, Land of Mystery.” It informed him that he hadn't existed for the past year, that the Great God Iberia had devoured him and that his self as a junior was still roaming the postnight campus in its ectoplasmic state. We, not to say the Masked Nid himself, or himself, were greatly disturbed, even to the point of making a pilgrimage to Numb Elroy.

So on September 30, something of Walpurgisnacht for Davidson (which is five months behind the world or seven ahead of?), the postnight crew went suppliant to the Holy Font, the holy blissful martyr for to seek. Numb Elroy was there, musing over a green-bound tome. Informed of our plight, he bowed his head, eyes closed and lips moving almost indiscernibly, his whole body swaying on the font, vibrating with the rhythms of a tuneless threnody.

“Many,” he whispered, “many are the rumblings and the bumblings of King Kudzu. Deep is his plotting, and his vines are long.” And with an agonizing effort, he held before us the book, “Kudzu's Code.” And moaning the dread incantation of King Kudzu, he drew the hordes of Davidson from the shadows. This host of our enemy, a list of missing persons, passed like specters, beckoning the Masked Nid to join them. They had all found refuge in Davidson: Marshal Ney, Judge Crater, The Women's Auxiliary Pinochle Team of Atlantis. King Kudzu had taken them under hisLeaf. But chief among them, most terrible of all, was a man sought by thousands for nearly 30 years, concentration camp commandant, and Hitler's personal phrenologist, Herr Rumpstein Von Tumper. Now Kudzu's right vine, Tumper, slavering with delight, revealed to us his plan to cement King Kudzu as Master of Davidson! “It has coom to mein attentshun, dot der coolered volk ist being shtopped und harangueded by der Davidson S.S. “If der coolered volk ist to be happy kleine darkies, dis activities, extracurriculum or uddervise, ist got to be shtopped! No more vith dis making der shtoppings on der campus. Der coolered volk must remember dot Verk Means Freedom! Dey must familiarize der poleezmen mit vat ist der goot coolered volk und vat is der bad coolered volk. Der goot coolered volk has got to be giving der poleezmen der numbers of der vagons, of der laundry, of der zocial zecurity, und of der tooth fillinks. Der goot coolered volk ist to be vering from now on mit all of der clothes, purple or uddervise, eine liddle pink vatermelon, dot der poleezmen may know vot ist der good coolereds und vot ist der bads. In dis vay, everybody is der happy happy shtudent.”

Horrified, we covered behind the fountain. All but our fearless familial patriarch, Don Guappo Lasagne. Flicking a cigarette ash into Von Tumper’s breast pocket, Don Guappo strode forward with a sneer. “What's all dis buncha scallopini? If youse is out for a peesa de action, youse is gonna hafta do better den dat! Youse is fiddling wit a minorities group and us minorities groups ain’t gonna sit still for dis messin’ around! Youse is lookin’ to get youse hedge clipped.”

“On der contrary,” replied Tumper. “Tomorrow, ve begin registration of all shtudents of Italian, Polish, Israeli, und Melanesian extraction. It iss all for der-own goot, zo dot dey may haff eine happy Davidson.” And, whistling 'Kindertotenlieder,' he turned back towards Chambers, from which came a rustling of leaves. But even above the rustling, came the sound of feet, tromping a path away from Davidson, where the vines could not reach.

Entertainment
By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

“Anniversary Waltz” concludes its run at the Charlotte Little Theatre with shows tonight and tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. Student tickets are $1. “Glimpses Into the Orient” continues to be the focus of exhibits at the Mint Museum of Art. Two years of planning give the visitor a taste of oriental culture in the Dwelle, Round, and Dethom Galleries this fall. “Monet” will continue the “Pioneers of Modern Painting” film series with showings Sunday and Monday at 8:15 p.m. There is no admission charge. “New York City,” a travelogue movie, will be shown in Ovens Auditorium at 8 p.m. Tuesday.

Tradition
By T. JACKSON
Staff Writer

Tradition in keeping up with the times has found a place in the hearts of Davidson students. Every year with the advent of the new freshmen class, the Davidson of old blossoms forth in a brilliant display. Since hazing by upperclassmen has withdrawn to an almost piteous state, there are no longer freshmen lost in yonder woods at such ungodly hours. Now, more sinister stratagems are instigated for freshmen. These tricks go under the disguised names of orientation week, the Library game, etc. The Davidson Mixer has become one of those traditional flings. One of those things which are allowed to happen for lack of new ideas. It reminds one of grandpa’s stuffed pigeons or something equally grotesque. Even though quite useless, the heirloom is inflicted upon every coming generation. The mixer lives on under the pretense of allowing freshmen to meet what Queens and Salem have to offer. Fair, young “virgin” maidens, freshly shorn from mother’s apron, come with newfound hopes in their heads. They meet and talk. Sally plays the flute. Bertha likes to eat. Tom is pre-med. (Oh!) Dick is pre-law. (Oh!) Harry is per-verted. What! Oh, what sweet inspiration there is in the human voice!

The area behind Richards House seems to be God's chosen site for all outdoor eating experiences. It is here that the birds and bees are quite visible for any who dare to look. The conversation, during the course of the meal, goes through periods of intense silence which are followed by spasms of violent eruptions. “Is it true that they burn witches at Salem?” “Do Davidson boys have more fun?” “Boys. Where's a boy?” The dance serves the lofty purpose of giving the freshmen something to do with their friends. Coke is served for those who think they can handle it. If not, there is also beer. When the clock strikes the twelfth hour, the little princesses must tear themselves from prince charming. Davidson reverts to its original purpose, an institution of higher learning (or so one hears). All said, however, the mixer serves its purpose. It is indeed sad that such a purpose is not manifest to any save a few archivists. Perhaps with the coming of coeducation at Davidson, the Davidson Mixer will find its true place of honor. Until then...