The Davidsonian February 11, 1972 Page Nine

Scandling Defends Record As Matmen Host Wolfpack

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson wrestling team hosts the North Carolina State Wolfpack tonight at 7 p.m., and one Wildcat grappler will try to maintain his unbeaten season. John Scandling, a sophomore from Alexandria, Va., carries a 7-0-1 mark into the match against the powerful Wolfpack, a team which blanked the 'Cats 36-0 last year and is considered even stronger this year by Davidson coach Charlie Parker.

“They rank second only to Maryland in the ACC, and they are really tough,” commented Parker.

For Scandling, the match will provide him with a chance to avenge a 3-0 defeat he suffered in the North Carolina Collegiate Championships earlier in the season. That loss does not count against his overall record.

“I'm in better shape now than when I wrestled the State guy before, and I’m looking forward to this match,” Scandling said.

Scandling was the outstanding performer for the ’Cats in the meet held here last weekend, which saw the matmen defeat Furman 26-14 but lose to The Citadel 24-13 and VMI 28-12. He captured all three of his matches, and in the process he upset a Citadel grappler who finished second in the conference last year. In that exciting match, the first period ended in a 4-4 deadlock. Scandling took the “up” position for the second period and simply rode his man until time expired. The Bulldog wrestler assumed the “up” position for the final period and rode Scandling in a similar manner. Scandling managed to escape with only 2/3 of a second remaining, and he took the match 5-4.

“I don’t even remember how I got out,” he remarked.

Adapting to wrestling at Davidson presented a marked change from Scandling’s approach to the sport in high school. “In the Northern Virginia area we have really strong competition, and my high school had a tough team. Here there is more school work to do, and I can’t put in as much time with wrestling as I did then.

“I like the wrestling philosophy here, and I enjoy competing. There is not much pressure placed on us, and it's a great break from studying,” he explained.

Scandling feels that mental attitude plays an important role in preparation for a match. “Physically I just use the basic moves, and I think I have a good synthesis of what I need. We work on smoothing out our style in practice, but you've got to be mentally ready also,” he noted.

In analyzing the season so far, Parker said that the ’Cats would be limping into tonight’s match. “We've had a real good year, but a lack of depth has hurt us. We'll be without Randy Webster tonight because he has gone to Hollins for the spring term, and there is no one of his caliber to replace him,” Parker pointed out.

Injuries have impaired the performances of senior Ronnie Williams and junior Jim Purcell, while heavyweight Bill Garrett is in his first year of wrestling. Parker noted that Garrett had done well against some very tough opponents. The matmen in the lower weight classes have done exceptionally well.

’Cats Host Augusta

The Davidson swimming team puts a 4-4 season mark on the line this afternoon with a match with Augusta College. The Augusta team defeated the ’Cats in a meet earlier this year, and is a favorite in today’s contest, according to Tom Stevens, Davidson swimming coach.

The swimmers have split two contests since the first of this month, defeating Belmont-Abbey and then dropping a match to Appalachian. Stevens sees the Augusta match as a chance for two of his leading natators, Jack Hobbs and Rusty Saylor, to break some school records. Both Hobbs and Saylor have been approaching record-setting times during the season, but due to lack of adequate practice time and ill health, neither has been able to break the present marks.

“Both Hobbs and Saylor had the flu,” Stevens said, “and Rusty was unable to go to Appalachian. When you miss a few days of swimming practice you can't get into good enough shape to break records.”tionally well. In addition to Scandling, this group includes freshman Bob Jacobs, junior Rob Benton, and junior Rusty Winchester. Parker described both Jacobs and Benton as greatly improving wrestlers and termed Winchester “a wild card man for us, a great asset.” Winchester has lost only once this season, and he has been valuable to the team because of his ability to change weight classes to fit the team needs. He has competed at both the 134 and 152 levels. 

The wrestlers have the conference tournament ahead of them in the coming weeks, and they should finish a solid fourth. This would be no disgrace, however, as favorites East Carolina and William and Mary have highly subsidized programs. If the men in the heavier weight classes can help the little guys out, the 'Cats have a shot at taking third place away from VMI. (Staff photo by Rodriguez)

THE ENDLESS HOCKEY GAME
Members of fourth Watts plan a marathon table hockey game during Midwinters weekend for dateless students. They hope to play over fifty hours.

DEAL’S RESTAURANT AND GRILL
663-4141
4 Miles North of Davidson
Steaks — Seafood — Plate Lunches
Sandwiches
6 a.m. ’til Midnight
Closed Monday

$6 value
$1.50 value
$5.00 value

“Your reference service saved me much valuable time which I put in on A’s and 1 B.” CN, Ann Arbor, Mich.
“The Vantage Point” is a book put together by 5 ghost writers and edited by LBJ. Your reference service is almost like my own personal ghost writer.” LC, Gainesville, Fla.
“The 3 reference books of which every student needs personal copies are Study Abroad, a good dictionary, and thesaurus. I got a $10,000 4-year scholarship from Study Abroad.” AR, Berkeley, Calif.

The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, a specialized agency of the United Nations dedicated to peace, is a non-profit, non-political organization dedicated to helping students to help themselves.

STUDY ABROAD
* New 19th Edition *
Each copy is trilingual in English, French, and Spanish
The most complete scholarship directory in the world lists more than 234,000 scholarships, fellowships, loans, and grants in more than 129 countries or territories! Tells who is eligible, fields of study, financial assistance, HOW, WHEN, AND WHERE TO APPLY! Reflects the latest scholarship approach based on financial need!

VACATION STUDY ABROAD
* Each copy is trilingual in English, French, and Spanish
More and more Americans are flocking overseas for summer vacations, and an increasing proportion is young Americans! With the price war now raging on overseas airfares, record-breaking numbers of young Americans will surge across Europe this summer! VACATION STUDY ABROAD tells how qualified people will go free! Provides information on short courses, seminars, summer schools, scholarships, and travel grants available each year to students, teachers, and other young people and adults planning to undertake study or training abroad during their vacations. These data were provided by some 500 organizations in 54 countries!

STUDENT AID SOCIETY membership dues. Service offered: $12.50
* Scholarship information service. Answers questions concerning scholarships worldwide!
* Travel service. . . only $6
* Reference Service. “Your reference service saved me much valuable time on term papers, essays, book reports, theses, etc., frequently using primary sources available only in the Library of Congress! We do not actually write the finished assignment since that would deprive the student of valuable educational experience and defeat the very purpose of writing for oneself in the first place. We will provide background information and bibliographies which rank with such tools as the College Outline Series and encyclopaedia reference service available only with expensive sets. Limit of one draft at small additional charge, per semester per student in good standing. We cannot answer any question which we feel requires the advice of a doctor, lawyer, architect, engineer, or other licensed practitioner, nor can we advise concerning your financial investments. Neither can we undertake market research or surveys or provide home study courses.”

THE STUDENT AID SOCIETY offers interesting tours to exotic lands!
* Paris, France, 1972 * 644 Pages

Student Aid Society, PO Box 39042 Friendship Station, Washington, D.C. 20016

Gentlemen: I enclose $6 for Study Abroad, Vacation Study Abroad, and annual dues.

Name
Address
City, State