She Davidsonian September 29, 1972 Page Seven

Construction Crews Demolish Fragile Walls of Old Union

By TOM BRUCE
Contributing Editor

With the dismantling of the David Ovens Student Union, the Davidson skyline will undergo a monumental change between now and
September 1974, the projected date for the opening of the new E. H. Little Library.

The new library will be located east of Chambers Building and adjacent to the stadium. The two buildings will constitute
the core of academic life on the campus, linked by a garden plaza. The contract for the 100,000 square foot
structure was awarded to the H. R. Johnson Construction Co. of Monroe, N.C., for its low bid of $3,308,447.

The first step in demolishing the old Union was to salvage every piece of equipment and hardware that was feasible
for reuse. Doors were taken off hinges, lighting fixtures were removed, and furniture was moved to existing campus spots or
put into storage.

The public address system used in the old Union was moved to the College Guest House, which will serve as
an interim Union for an indefinite period.

Students working in the relocated student offices in the upstairs of the interim Union will notice a number of familiar
landmarks. Desks, plastic chairs, and rickety carved tables are all making reappearances in the THE DAVIDSONIAN office and the Student
Government Association headquarters.

The Ovens Union was demolished with very little resistance, according to Physical Plant Director Grover C. Meetze.

A single mammoth bulldozer driven by one man working with a crew of ten others worked for a month to
level the old structure.

“There wasn’t a crowd on hand for the first strike,” Meetze explained, “but townspeople and faculty soon turned out to
watch.”

By the time that the bulldozer had done its deed, the Union was completely pulverized. The wrecking crew hauled off
the debris to salvage pieces of scrap metal and other remnants of the building.

Before the crew went to work on the building, it was a rather eerie sight with doors and windows standing
open, the walls and floors completely robbed of their decoration, an unnatural silence that seemed somewhat uneasy in the once-bustling
building.

Wall-to-wall carpeting was taken up and recut for use in the Oak Row music rooms. Stones from the terrace around
the front of the Union were reconstructed into a reinforcement wall for new parking spaces adjacent to Sentelle and Duke
Dormitories.

Ron Scott's Slater ARA food service had only 14 days in which to relocate in the three Patterson Court facilities
before the arrival of summer campers and teacher trainees.

Workers from the Physical Plant department and maintenance crews worked overtime trying to push the houses into readiness. Existing food
supplies were used up so that there would be no chance of spoilage.

“We lost about eighty cubic feet of freezer space and this is probably our most serious loss,” said Scott. “We
had only two weeks to get everything underway for the summer camps where we served as many as 500 persons.”

“Some food had to be transferred to a rented freezer locker for the duration,” he said. “New electrical outlets had
to be installed and larger water supply lines as well.”

“The Patterson Court houses were extremely adaptable to remodeling,” Meetze recalled. “When they were constructed back in the early ‘60s
they planned so that they could be altered without major reconstruction efforts. There are no interior load-bearing walls on the
court, hence the structures are not dependent on the interior walls for support.”

Articles of furniture and hardware from the Union that could not be immediately used were stored in the old Post
Office on Depot Street, a building rented by the college for this purpose.

“The relocation of the Student Store from its former vantage point in the basement of the Union was a formidable
task.”

Manager Peter Nicholls acknowledged, “It took us about four days of steady work to transfer everything. The new location is
probably more convenient for the students, but we won't attract many town customers here on the second floor.”

The moving days necessitated joint efforts by maintenance crews, the local Alexander Trucking Company and regular store employees. Nicholls said
that he did not have to reduce stock.

The 70 parking spaces at the rear of Chambers Building were casualties of the demolition. In order to plan adequately
for the garden plaza, there was a significant space shortage in this area.

Two-thirds of these lost parking spaces were compensated by construction of a new parking area on the north side of
Jackson Court along the existing one-way road to the athletic area.

Meetze pointed out that the new library will mean a net gain in the number of student parking places, but
a net loss for faculty and staff parking. Visitors will park in the area adjacent to the interim Union.
