Davidson Celebrates Town Day

Tomorrow is Davidson’s annual Town Day. Festivities begin with a parade of children, in costume, from Davidson Elementary School. Highlights of the day include a fair in the parking lot of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center, a picnic supper at 5 p.m., the community talent show at 6:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium, and finally a dance in the Morrison Room.

Exam Dates Change

The Registrar’s office has announced a change in dates for self-scheduled exams. The new dates are May 13, 15, 16, and 17. Exams will be issued between 8:40 and 9:15 a.m. and between 1:40 and 2:15 p.m. in Chambers Banquet Hall. Chairman of the Hearing Committee Dick Clay says that they should cause no strain on the Honor System “if all students act in their own best interest” and adhere to the Code of Responsibility.

Registrar Accepts Summer Applications

The Registrar is now accepting applications for enrollment to the 1972 summer session program from undergraduate students, teachers, recent high school graduates, and adults in the college vicinity. The summer session will consist of two three-week terms, from June 12 to July 1 and July 10 to July 29, with two class periods each day totaling 170 minutes per day, Monday through Friday.

Eiler, Long Win Writing Award

Kenny Eiler won $35 for first prize of the R. Windley Hall Writing Award for Freshmen. Second place, a $20 prize, was awarded to Bob Long. Selected by the vote of the members of the English Department, Eiler and Long were chosen from a group of 20 freshmen whose poetry and prose was collected in the literary magazine ‘Inklings’, an annual publication of the Freshman Class.

Four Appointed To Faculty

By BRUCE MALOY
Staff Writer

There will be four new faces on the Davidson faculty next year and one old face will acquire a more permanent look. Felix A. Carroll will be coming to Davidson after finishing his PhD work at California Institute of Technology this summer. Carroll, who has held two National Science Fellowships and published six articles, comes to the staff as an instructor of Organic Chemistry.

Miss Lois Kemp will complete her PhD at the University of Wisconsin this summer and come to Davidson to serve as Chairman of the Spanish Department with a rank of Assistant Professor. Miss Kemp has taught at DePauw, Ohio Wesleyan, and Wisconsin. She has also supervised the Hollins College Summer Program in Madrid as well as having spent three years in Madrid with the U.S. Military Advisory Program.

Filling out the Political Science Department will be Paul F. Liston who leaves behind a teaching post at the University of Michigan. Liston’s specialty is U.S.-China relations. His service as a research officer for the U.S. Army carried him to Okinawa and throughout Asia. He is competent in Chinese.

Professor I. Job Thomas is coming to Davidson from India under the auspices of the Office of International Education. Thomas has been a Research Scholar for the University Grants Commission of India and Curator of the National Art Gallery in Madras. Thomas will be at Davidson for the fall term and at Guilford College after January.

Bruce Selected As 1972-73 Assistant To The President

By ALAN FORD
Staff Writer

Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced Tuesday morning the selection of Duff Bruce as the new Assistant to the President. When asked why he had chosen Bruce, Spencer replied that “it wasn’t the kind of choice that I enjoy making.” He said that he felt all of the candidates were well qualified and would have done a good job. He did feel, however, that Bruce was the best qualified of the candidates.

According to Greg Scott, the current Assistant to the President, the job carries several responsibilities. Scott said that the main duties of the assistant are “handling the detail work of the two Convocations” and providing the main liaison between the President and the trustees. Other things taken care of by the assistant are researching speeches, answering mail, taking charge of unexpected visitors, and writing drafts of proposals.Teaching chemistry at Davidson, Nutt loses his temporary status and is being hired on a permanent basis. Nutt, a graduate of Ohio Wesleyan and Duke, is an Assistant Professor of Physical Chemistry. These new faculty members are needed to fill the places left by retiring Professors James Causey, John Gallent, and James Reid.

Tenure Evaluation System Needed (Continued From Page 1)

To address the tenure problem, what can be done to improve faculty evaluation at Davidson? The tendency of collective bargaining to divide the college community into belligerent camps of faculty and administration probably makes it unsuitable for Davidson. Faculty opposition to a system of five-year contracts probably precludes the development of such a process here, too. Most suitable to Davidson, it seems, is Harvard's All-University Committee. But the success of any new system of faculty evaluation rests upon several important factors.

First, the faculty must accept organized and stringent evaluation as a necessary part of the college’s development. Professors must be “willing to let other people see their mistakes,” in the words of Philosophy Professor Earl MacCormac. With this willingness to be evaluated should come the responsibility for evaluation. Because they are best suited to judge their colleagues, professors must bear the onus of evaluation. According to MacCormac, the success of a new system depends upon the Administration's ability to “get the faculty to do it.” The administration needs to give up its stranglehold on the evaluation process and open it not only to faculty but also to students. Although students cannot have an absolute voice in who is an effective teacher, student opinion is an important part of faculty appraisal.

Only students attend a professor’s class regularly, and at Davidson, where teaching is so important, their opinion of a professor’s ability should play a formal part of faculty evaluation. But a university committee dominated by faculty and containing student input will not be enough if evaluation is limited to consideration of tenure and contract renewal. As German Professor Hansford Epes Jr. said, “Evaluation should not be some point in time but spread out, so it can come back and help the professor.” Faculty evaluation at Davidson should be a process of “professional development assisted by feedback,” in Epes’ words.

Bevan said last week that he will propose a new evaluation system next fall, but he declined to release any details. If tenure and faculty evaluation are to be meaningful at Davidson, those details must contain a major shift in emphasis, both in who evaluates our faculty and in what evaluation seeks to accomplish.

Scott also stated that, since the assistant is a member of the administration, most of his contact is with other members of the administrative staff. Bruce agreed with Scott that most of the assistant’s contacts will be with other administrators, but added the following concept to the job. He stated that “a great deal of my job is student contact, knowing what the students think.”

Discussing Scott’s year as his assistant, Spencer said, “Greg has been a very effective assistant and I am very appreciative of what he has done.” Scott had the following comments to make about the job as assistant and Spencer. “The job of Assistant to the President is a good education for someone just out of the student body who wants some administrative experience before pursuing career plans. Dr. Spencer is the best boss I have had. He has been willing to place his confidence in me without reservation and still has shown tolerance and understanding of the mistakes I have made. He has been warm and helpful to me, as he is to everyone. I value this year of association with him,” Scott noted.

Bruce had this final statement to make about being the Assistant to the President next year, “I can’t say that I can change anything, but I can say I will definitely make him (Spencer) aware of certain views.”

GALLEY FISH CAMP
Fresh Fish-Steaks
Wher-Rena Marina
Highway 73
4 miles from Davidson

Congratulations to Class of ‘72
Good Luck to you in your endeavors.
Come back to see us when you visit in future years.

For SWIMMING
SUNNING
SKIING
STUDYING
or just plain ‘Goofing
We have the togs for you — from famous makers

Join Mock & Sen
Mooresville
Only 6 miles north