The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 21, 1972

The Hot Potato

The Comprehensive fee has become quite a hot potato in the administration these days. Responsibility for the creation of the
fee as well as its implementation has been tossed from one office to another with no one really understanding what
it is. But whatever it is, most administrators don’t want to be left holding it.

First mention of the fee arrived in students' home mailboxes just before the beginning of fall classes. Since the letter
was signed by Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell, he became the primary target for student complaints.
The Student Government drafted a list of indictments of the system and presented them to the President, who in turn
tossed the issue to his vice presidents to work out with students. A meeting was held, and grievances aired. Hoping
that the issue might cool off, the administration did not respond.

When pressed by students for an answer before Christmas, Cornell said Bevan would write a report on the meeting. And
in typical administrative fashion, Bevan responded by saying that Cornell would write the report since it was a business issue.
About this time, Cornell realized that student opposition to the fee was overwhelming, so he let it be known that
he was not adamant on the issue and that it was Bevan’s idea in the first place. Sources in the
business office supported their boss by saying the business office wasn’t really in favor of the idea anyway.

Dean Terry watched with amusement as the vice presidents tossed the comprehensive fee to each other until he looked down
and found it lying in his lap. The business office informed him that he would decide the exceptions to the
fee. Lucky Will. The game has moved so swiftly in the past three days with the vice presidents saying the
president would make the final decision and the president saying the vice presidents would make the decision and Will Terry
begging for mercy. To confuse matters even further, the Student Life Committee jumped into the act, thus placing faculty support
behind student efforts to modify the fee. What strange bedfellows!

If anyone finds the comprehensive fee sizzling on the ground, just throw it back on first floor Chambers and see
if you can follow it.

Reflections Of Editorship

Since our year’s editorial experience on THE DAVIDSONIAN concludes with this issue, it would be of value to reflect on
our experience and our thoughts as the editorship of this paper.

We began our editorship full of the zest and idealism characteristic of newly-elected officials, committing ourselves to improving the quality
of life and education at Davidson through objective reporting, stimulating features, and insightful editorials.

In most ways, of course, we were thoroughly disappointed, if not disillusioned. The administration has virtually ignored our pleas for
coeducation, our criticisms of the comprehensive fee, our requests for a drastically improved social system, and our comments concerning the
demolition of the Union. Educational progress has been lacking, the Honors College falls far short of its potential, Extended Studies
and the coed exchange are unsuccessful, and all too often the theories of the classroom are left untested and unapplied
in experiences beyond the walls of the college.

Students, too, have ignored many of our efforts, and have clung to such escape routes as apathy, senseless criticism, or
dull acquiescence rather than asserting their rights and working toward a college that is both responsive and responsible to their
social and educational needs.

There are, however, several very hopeful signs on the horizon for Davidson. If students, faculty, and administration begin working positively
together, such programs as Career Service, Extended Studies, Junior Year Abroad, and the Honors College could be made into facilities
for a real educational experience. Yet for all these improvements, one real need ranks ahead of all others—coeducation. Davidson potentially
has a bright future, but only if it responds very soon to the urgent problem of coeducation.

If we have any parting thought, let it be this. Davidson, go coed, make this need your first priority. Don’t
let the world pass you by.

BOBBY ALLEN

TV. Taxes, Football Cheer Complaining Convalescent

It’s day number 16. Sixteen days of Lord knows how many I'll be spending in bed. You see, I was
stricken down by that most dread disease of Young America, mononucleosis. Cut down in my prime with not even a
slender volume of poetry or my Great American Novel set down for posterity. All I can do is alternately sweat
and freeze, heave at the thought of food, reconsider my stand on euthanasia, and dumbly absorb daytime television. I knew
I had hit rock bottom when I discovered one afternoon that I had been watching one soapopera long enough to
distinguish two characters and their respective situations. (One was a girl who waited until she was on the operating table
and about to go under the anesthesia to decide, "I want to have this baby!" The other was this housewife
who kept shouting at her kid for wearing her blue skirt instead of her red one. Her doctor-husband suspects a
brain tumor. I suggest prefrontal lobotomy. I mentally slapped myself and with great effort managed to pull myself together long
enough to find the market section of the Observer and discover that Comsat had dropped another %. I knew then
that I was back in the world of reality.

Things were also pretty bad when I found myself pulling for a specific contestant on a game show. He was
a 55-year-old New York cab driver who was trying to get enough money to buy his own cab. "It restores
your faith in America," I said deliriously to my stuffed rat, "to think that a hardworking cabbie can come on
a quiz show and go home with the $30,000 he needs for his own cab!" My cabbie did not win
his $30,000 or any cash at all. He did win a set of golf clubs, a snowmobile, a regulation pool
table, a trip to Rome, and enough capital gains to put him in another tax bracket.

But even in weakness is power. One afternoon I happened to catch Davidson’s own Dave Fagg chatting and smiling with
Ty Boyd about the future of Davidson football.

Boyd (smiling): "Coach, what about the talk of de-emphasis of athletics, particularly football, at Davidson?"
Fagg (smiling): "Ty, Ty, we're going to play football at Davidson forever!"

But Coach, what if Richardson Stadium collapses from the gusts of wind whipping over empty seats? What if Appalachian and
the other gridiron powers of the Southern Conference refuse to book us? What if someone with infectious mononucleosis sneaks around
at night and kisses the entire team? What then, Coach?

Philistine Audience Greets Haunting Premier Of ‘Ghosts’

A REVIEW By MARK BROWN Staff Writer

We are all haunted, at least at times, by the specters of worn-out social conventions and artificially restrictive mores which
we inherit from our loving progenitors. The Greek drama easily explained these impositions as the handiwork of the Fates, but
the scientific developments in late nineteenth-century Europe confounded the traditional answers with new questions of heredity. The problems of this
more complex inheritance, combining our biological and cultural legacies, and their often tragic effects on the exercise of human freedom,
are brought to life by the characters in Henrik Ibsen's "Ghosts," the current offering by the Davidson College Department of
Drama and Speech.

The play opened to a philistine, though hopefully not typical, student audience Wednesday night in Hodson Hall. But a review
of the audience, which often laughed at the wrong places, provides an inaccurate gauge for judging the work of the
players themselves. So to the play.

Rupert Barber directs the five-member cast which includes Mrs. Ellen Winkler as Mrs. Alving, the widow whose misplaced sense of
duty has resulted in a life of useless sacrifice; Terry Hirst as her son Osvald; Robert Wright as Pastor Manders;
George Draughon, Jr. as Jakob Engstrand; and Jennet Robinson as Regina Engstrand.

Wednesday night's initial scene began on rather precarious footing with Miss Robinson and Draughon treading a tightrope stage, unsurely searching
for their parts. But fortunately, the mechanical animation and uneasy dialogue faded as all the characters came into play and
the dramatic movement of the action carried them to a powerful, if not altogether convincing, climax.

Mrs. Winkler’s portrayal of Mrs. Alving does not consistently reveal the tension and suffering of the widow. But when she
does succeed, controlling an emotional exchange with Pastor Manders, trembling on the threshold of tears, and finally in the passionate
outburst of the final scene with her doomed son, she erases your memory of her occasional lapses.

Terry Hirst, seemingly too nonchalant at times, does create an Osvald who simply cannot understand or cope with his downfall.
For Davidsonians, perhaps a bit too much of the "shrew" in Regina, however, Jennet Robinson does provide a believable contrast
to Mrs. Alving. Regina is determined to defy the "ghosts" of the past and live her own life.

It may be in George Draughon’s final mastery of Jakob Engstrand that we find a key to overcome the "ghosts"
which haunt us. Unlike Regina, who asserts her freedom without much experience of life's harsh consequences, Jakob comes through as
a man who has felt the power of the specters, borne their burdens, yet ultimately is prepared to carry on.

(Staff Photo by Bill Barnes)

A DOMESTIC TRAGEDY: Ellen Winkler and Terry Hirst are haunted in “Ghosts.”
