Student Input Needed In Governance
By RICH WILSON
Editor-in-Chief

(This is the third in a series of articles entitled “Campus Governance: Crisis of Authority.”)

In Davidson's governance system, all students are second-class citizens. At certain lower levels in the decision-making process, they are granted token input, but in most major determinations, they are excluded from any meaningful participation. Just this past fall, the faculty vetoed a proposal to allow student representation on the Admissions Committee and the Budget, Building, and Grounds Committee.

It was also during the fall that the faculty rejected all proposals to allow student observers in faculty meetings. While students are adequately represented on many faculty committees, they have been systematically excluded from most planning on a departmental level, and they have been excluded by the faculty as well as the administration from having a say in the final decision-making process.

If students are to help a college realize the goals it has set for itself, they must fully understand what these goals are, as well as the plan by which the college hopes to achieve these goals. If students are involved in the budget-making process, they might understand better why their tuition has been raised. Similarly, if students are involved in setting the calendar for the next year, they might understand what problems exist in such planning.

But at Davidson, student loyalty to the goals of the institution is not encouraged. In most cases, the students feel the college is working against them rather than trying to help them. Consequently, students have no qualms about “ripping off the college.” To them, the college is impersonal. The college does not seem to respond to their needs in such areas as student life; therefore, they do not respond to the college’s need for student cooperation in such areas as admissions or cutting costs.

A second argument offered in favor of increased student participation in governance is that students are a good judge of a professor’s teaching effectiveness. Neither an academic vice president nor a department chairman can effectively assess a professor’s teaching ability as well as the student who sits through the professor’s class.

---

Vol. LXI No. Twenty-two
The Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
March 31, 1972

Bevan, Cornell Express Criticism Of Football Study
By ALEC HOON
Managing Editor

Reaction among the administration to the SGA Committee Report On Football has been for the most part critical of the study. Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell was disappointed by the “incompleteness” of the report. “I still think that there are a lot of unanswered questions. I found the results to be very interesting, but I was disappointed that they did not do a comparative cost analysis of subsidized and non-subsidized football,” Cornell said.

Cornell also noted that, contrary to the report's findings, savings could be realized in non-subsidized football in such areas as coaching and recruiting. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan was critical of the fact that the conclusions were speculative, with no facts to back them up. “The report creamed the top, but did not dig into the issue,” Bevan stated. Bevan was also bothered by the fact that the report gave no indications of the costs of non-subsidized football.

When presented with the statements from Bevan and Cornell, Bill Meier, chairman of the Football Committee, defended his committee's report. “I agree with Cornell and Bevan in that there are a lot of unanswered questions. They are right about the cost analysis being superficial. However, there are several reasons for this. First, in being students, the committee was specifically denied permission to see a line-by-line college football budget by Cornell. We could also not get accurate data from other schools, such as Washington & Lee and Centre College, who have non-subsidized programs because they too refused to release the facts,” Meier said.

Meier noted that with the absence of such information, it was impossible to prepare a comparative cost analysis. He said the committee had been anxious to...get these facts so that they could have made such a report. He explained that Washington & Lee switched to a non-subsidized program in 1954; and that the committee had wanted to get their budgets in 1953 and 1954 to use as a rule for comparison. "We asked Cornell to get such information for us, which he could, but he refused, saying that he didn't consider that 'relevant or helpful'," Meier noted. Meier also contended with Cornell's assessment that money could be saved in non-subsidized football for coaching and recruiting. "This is erroneous. We would (See FOOTBALL, Page 2)

(Staff photo by Strand)

GO AHEAD AND BITCH
Senate members establish College Grievance Committee.

Every day, students can make helpful evaluations of a professor’s preparation and interest in his lectures and discussions. Student participation in governance can also close the widening gap in professor-student relations. Only the student really knows what interests him. Unless a professor can understand these interests and channel them into a learning experience, the educational process here will flounder. This is why it is so important that students at least have some final say in curriculum planning and educational programs even though the faculty should act as the guiding force and exercise dominance in this area.

Student participation in governance would also open channels of communication among the constituencies and provide for more understanding between these groups. However, many faculty members argue that students are transient and therefore they will not suffer the possible effects of their input. Such arguments falter when one considers that the average term of a college president is four or five years. And with faculty members periodically leaving on sabbatical, students may have more years of continuous governance experience than either faculty or administrators. It is also important to note that governance is a continuing process. Decisions and structures are constantly modified and reinterpreted to fill changing conditions; consequently, there is no reason why students should not take part in governance during their four years here. If they should make a misjudgment, like all decisions, it can be corrected by future generations. In short, no governance system is static. A bad decision made one year can be overturned the next. Faculty members have also (See STUDENT, Page 2)

SGA Establishes Committee To Handle College Complaints
By TODD EADES
Contributing Editor

The Student Government Association has established a Grievance Committee. Its purpose is to find answers to complaints from members of the college community and to act as a link between the different member groups of the community. The Grievance Committee was begun when the SGA Senate passed a resolution from Senator Steve Suflas in its March 7 meeting. The committee met for the first time last Monday, when it received several inquiries and decided to act on well-known problems of its own initiative.

The members of the committee are Bruce Batten, Woody Connette, Mike Creasman, Skip Holcombe, John Hornickle, and Bill Rolland. In a newsletter distributed to the student body, the committee outlined its operating procedures. Any complaints or questions may be submitted to the committee at its weekly meetings on Monday at 10 p.m. in the Union Bar, or submitted to any of the members at any time during the week. Cases will be kept confidential if the individual submitting the problem so desires.

The need for such a committee is reflected in numerous general complaints by students about their problems in effectively dealing with the persons responsible. The committee will attempt to cut through administrative red tape and resolve the communications gap between the persons involved. One of the first actions of the committee will be to determine and define the areas of responsibility of decision makers. It will also attempt to obtain faculty representation on the committee. Members of the committee emphasized that the services of the committee are available to anyone — students, administrators, faculty, and townspeople — and that the committee will act on complaints involving any of these groups.

Mike Creasman, a Senior Class Senator and a member of the Grievance Committee said, "only action will define the purpose of the committee. We’re here to help students, faculty, administrators, townspeople — anyone who has a grief. It is our hope that those people who have a problem will confront us." Skip Holcombe, also on the committee, spoke of the goals of the group saying, "our immediate aim is to find a solution to the problem, but more importantly we hope to eliminate the cause of the problem in the future."