The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR FEBRUARY 11, 1972

An Anachronism?

College officials have consistently maintained that Davidson must develop programs which will set it apart from the average male school. In a sense, Davidson must accentuate its uniqueness. Well, this week we found out we are more unique than we thought. We are one of only 37 male senior colleges left in the nation. And if the declining trend in unisex schools continues, by 1973 we may be the only school left in the country that is all-male. It is one thing to be unique, but entirely another to be an anachronism.

At this point in the coeducational debate both the faculty and students have stated they care too much about Davidson to see it become a white elephant among institutions of higher education. The Educational Policy Committee is now in the final stages of putting together its recommendations for coeducation. Although we have every confidence that the members of this committee will propose a good workable plan implementing coeducation, we hope that they will still consider the possibility of coeds on campus this fall.

We realize that if the trustees should approve coeducation at their May meeting, it will be difficult to attract coeds beginning in the fall of '72. However, we do not think the situation is impossible by any means. The College could accept applications from females with the understanding that the application fee would be returned if the trustees should veto any coeducational plan. Even after the trustee decision, the college could undertake an intensive mailing campaign to inform the country that Davidson would accept girls as degree candidates in the fall of '72. Such a plan might attract a number of transfer students. Although the EPC may decide to begin the full phasing program with the fall of 1973, we hope they will also allow for females who are interested in making the special effort to come to Davidson next year as degree candidates. While the number may be small it would be a significant step toward coeducation. Let’s save Davidson from being an anachronism in higher education.

Campus Security

The SGA Senate has moved swiftly to deal with the problem of campus security. This week’s unanimous actions supporting increased security personnel (at least one more man a shift) and improved lighting on campus, as well as provision for an escort system for coeds between Grey House and the library, are positive steps to combat this serious problem. We can only hope that the college administration will move with equal dispatch in meeting the problem, because only the college has the financial resources necessary to upgrade security force and campus lighting. Too often the Senate has been forced to take on burdens that were most properly the college’s concern, such as in the case of the rehiring last year of Dr. Meredith Hall as College Psychologist. The Senate should not be burdened with assuring the safety or well-being of students who are paying tuition to the college. THE DAVIDSONIAN has presented the problem and suggested solutions. The SGA has acted to support those proposals, and urge their adoption. The college administration must now act to implement those suggestions for the good of every student.

The College Calendar

That the college will retain the 3-3-3 calendar for next year was a welcome decision considering the lateness of the hour. Only a week ago rumors circulated the student body that Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan intended to implement a 4-1-4 arrangement for next year. Although we are encouraged to see that a rush decision was avoided, we do hope that evaluation of the calendar will continue. There are advantages and disadvantages to the 3-3-3 and the 4-1-4 calendar; neither will provide the perfect framework. The 4-1-4 idea has gained increasing acceptance in many private colleges across the country since it provides the middle term for independent study. But just as extended studies have become a “low priority” in the thinking of many faculty members, there is no reason to believe that the same program placed in the framework of an interim term will produce a different situation. We therefore hope that the college will experiment completely with the trimester arrangement before discarding it for a system which also includes similar inequities with which we currently struggle.

WILL TERRY

Tolerance To ‘Soft Stuff’ May Bring Heavier Hand

There is a working creed that students observe in their relationships which goes, “A fellow student has the right to do whatever he pleases, as long as it does not bother me.” They believe this is a form of tolerance. My observation is it is sheer indifference. What the creed really says is, “I don’t care. I’m not my brother's keeper. Don’t tread on me either.” It is a phony tolerance.

Nowhere has it been more destructive to the lives of students than on the drug scene. Students have encouraged other students to smoke pot or worse, or at least smiled on it from a distance. Weaker students without psychological stability or academic competence, and without the character to say no, have been sucked in and damaged, perhaps destroyed. There are certain patterns of student behavior and academic performance which indicate pretty clearly that what is bothering Joe Doe is pot. Students say there is little hard stuff on campus—maybe so, maybe not. But the “soft stuff” has seriously affected the lives of many students. Perhaps the phony tolerance is wearing thin, for lately I have had students expressing concern for their fellow students and disgust that all that smoke gets in their eyes. Such concern and disgust is the best way to break the trend. There cannot be really effective change without student concern or harshPolicing activities. Since the bust at Sewanee, there is a wave of paranoia. The question comes to me, "Are we getting ready for one?" With all this sudden concern, disgust, and fear, it seems a propitious time to make a few points. First, the official policy of Davidson College is clearly written in the Governance Regulations. The working policy has always been help for the user, but no tolerance for the pusher. We have concern for the man who gets in trouble with drugs. There are two professional counselors and a competent college physician who will help a student. All their work is in perfect confidence. As Dean, I would not accept such information, and knowing Dr. Workman, Dr. Hall, and Dr. Davis, they would not offer such information. There is a subcommittee of the Student Life Committee which is now looking for better ways to help students with drug problems. They, working with Open House in Charlotte, will seek to train students to help other students. A drug pusher is a bootlegger who may know little about his product and have no concern for his customers. These men are peddling the seeds of others’ destruction. No pusher can say he has not been warned of our attitudes toward this activity. Second, there is not, to my knowledge, a disposition toward calling in state or federal authorities. One should know, however, that they may come on campus without permission from us. They may plant agents without our knowledge. They may not search your room without a search warrant. Third, North Carolina has a new set of drug laws, which is easier on users, but tougher on pushers. These laws will be available to every student through the inter-campus mail. Students should familiarize themselves with these laws. Fourth, we wish to be totally fair to all students. We have no wish to deal in trickery. At the same time, we wish to make it unmistakably clear that the college campus is not a sanctuary. We are also anxious for students to be able to breathe unpolluted air if they wish. We wish he had the gumption to demand this right of his fellow students, but we have the obligation to help him. It may even be our obligation to help the weaker man who cannot say no. It is occurring to us that students are coming to the place where they would not be disappointed to see us move with a heavier hand, even if some will scream bloody murder. Two weeks ago I talked with the Amherst dean who said drugs were fast disappearing there. If this is true, may the Amherst style come to Davidson soon.

Outside Perspective

Female Applications Decline

St. Joseph’s College in Philadelphia is a former men’s college, well-known for its outstanding pre-med program. The college, which went coed in 1970, has shown a definite slump in female applications for the next school year when compared with the number of applications at this time last year. In 1970, the first year women were able to attend St. Joseph’s, the male applications showed a significant decline. The next year, 1971, female applications almost doubled, but male requests for admittance rose only slightly. Director of Admissions James Moore stated that economics may offer a possible explanation for the decrease in female applications for the 1972-73 school year. Under the pressure of an ever-tightening economy, parents may be thinking twice about sending their daughter to college.

Pfeiffer Offers Economics Program In Europe

The Department of Economics at Pfeiffer College is offering a three-week spring trip to Europe for studies in economics. The program will give the students the opportunity to study economics as applied to various institutions and economic settings. The students will attend lectures and discussion sessions led by European economists and public officials at universities in Brussels, London, Paris, and Zurich. Field trips will consist of visits to economic and business institutions, such as the Common Market Headquarters in Brussels.

Sanford Undecided On Presidential Primary

Duke University President and former North Carolina Governor Terry Sanford said he would consider putting his name on the May presidential primary ballot only after talking with the University of North Carolina students who began the Sanford signature drive three weeks ago in Chapel Hill. Sanford stated, “If the drive goes nowhere, my name would not go on the ballot. There must be some future in it if my name does go on. We have until the March 11 deadline to decide.” The drive, however, is going somewhere. Already more than 10,000 signatures have been obtained at campuses across the state, and the signatures continue to climb. Sanford commented, “This petition drive by the students has been the most effective political action I've seen.”

Officials Arrest Clemson Students

A drug crackdown in Clemson and Seneca, South Carolina, has resulted in the arrest of 15 persons, most of them Clemson University students. The raids were led by State Law Enforcement Division (SLED) agents. The SLED agents said they had been working on the case at Clemson for about six weeks, and they had between 25 and 30 warrants. Most of the arrests took place after the sale of marijuana, amphetamines, and barbiturates to SLED agents. Walter T. Cox, university vice president for student affairs, stated, “Drugs are prohibited by law, and we will not knowingly allow their use on campus. We do not have spies all over campus, though.” Clemson Police Chief L. L. Wilson said that although he estimates that a majority of Clemson students have taken drugs at one time, or do take drugs, only a small percentage “cause trouble.”