Page Six October 6, 1972 The Davidsonian

Freshman Masterminds ‘Postal’ Game
By ELSEN Staff Writer

Publishing a newsletter, acting as a gamesmaster, and negotiating alliances for an abstract situation are just a few of the
activities involved in freshman Steve Bell's unique hobby. Bell's interest centers around playing Postal Diplomacy, a game in which only
some 400-500 Americans participate. Postal Diplomacy is a game abstractly based on situations in Europe before World War I. Seven
major powers, England, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, Austria-Hungary, and Turkey are involved in Postal Diplomacy, with each player assuming the
role of one country. The goal of each SELF-STYLED GAMEMASTER player is to conquer half of Europe. “However, it is
not a war game,” Bell emphasizes, “since the only way a player can win or lose is by making and
breaking temporary alliances through his diplomatic relations. As a game progresses, an elaborate structure of treaties and alliances develops which
make Diplomacy a challenge,” said Bell.

Diplomacy was originally designed to be played face to face; however, there was always the difficulty in finding seven people
who were willing to sit for 12 hours or more. “That's how I got started,” said Bell. “I purchased a
copy of the game, Diplomacy, but I could never play because I couldn't find six other people who were interested.
As part of the game set, there is a flyer concerning Postal Diplomacy, and so I wrote to one of
the men whose address was given and got started,” he said.

Bell is presently entered in five Postal Diplomacy games. In two of these games, he takes the role of Austria.
He also negotiates as England, France, and Germany in three other games. “In the game in which I am playing
as France, Germany and I are about to destroy England, and my next target is Italy,” he said, “although I
have a non-aggression treaty with that country.” Bell pauses to laugh and continues, “As England, I am beginning to decline;
as Germany, I am rapidly losing.”

In Postal Diplomacy, Europe is divided into 34 sea and land provinces designated as supply centers. At the outset of
the competition, each country is given three supply centers, except Russia, which has four. The number of supply centers determines
the forces, either armies or fleets, that a player can build. After a round of three weeks of negotiations, each
country issues orders to their forces. These orders are sent to a gamesmaster who evaluates the situation, determining which supply
centers were won or lost. Then the gamesmaster prints up a paper and returns it to the players, thus signaling
the beginning of a new round of negotiations.

Besides being a player, Bell is also a gamesmaster. Part of the role in being a gamesmaster is publishing a
newsletter. In order to complete this task, Bell spent over $100 on a mimeograph machine. Other expenses, such as paper
and postage, have brought Bell's expenses as a gamesmaster to over $200. “My mailing list is now over 50 people,
but I predict it will be 150 by the end of a year’s time,” Bell said. A subscription to Bell's
newspaper runs around 50 cents for five issues. At present, through the newsletter, he is gamesmaster for four games of
Postal Diplomacy. Besides publishing the negotiation results, his paper includes many articles of interest and usually runs 10 to 12
pages in length.

Tree Deaths Due To Their Age, Disease
By LARRY T. MIMMS Staff Writer

Davidson College has lost as many as 45 trees in the area between the Chambers building and Main Street and
may expect to lose some of the older and larger ones in the near future, according to Supt. of Grounds
Irvin Brawley. The two major causes of tree deaths in the past have been the widespread Dutch Elm disease and
lightning. However, seven or eight of the stately, older trees (some over 100 years old) are now suffering from old
age. “We are doing everything possible to save our trees and have been successful in some cases. Trees are just
like people. When they get old, they need more care,” said Grover Meetze, Director of Physical Plant.

Fertilizers and other chemicals have been used to sustain the older trees’ lives, but the trees’ circulatory systems have not
been adequate, resulting in rotting and deterioration. Brawley said that groundskeepers have cut dead limbs from these trees from time
to time for safety reasons. He added that when and if a particular tree becomes a safety hazard, he will
necessarily cut it down. Last spring, in an effort to increase the Davidson campus tree population, 17 young trees were
planted. These trees (red and sugar maples and water and willow oaks) were chosen and located on campus with the
aid of a nationally known landscape architect from Long Island, N.Y., Innocent and Weber.

Drama Workshop Brings Two New One-Act Plays
By JOHN CASSELS Asst. Features Editor

Two highly successful off-Broadway productions will...come to Davidson Thursday, Oct. 12 as part of the first Drama Workshop. Students at
the University of North Carolina-Charlotte, the “None-Such Players,” are on tour with two one-act plays, “Adaptation” by Elaine May and
“Next” by Terrence McNally. “I've seen both these shows in a showcase during the summer and was very impressed with
the plays and the students,” said Asst. Professor of Drama Rupert T. Barber. “Both of these plays have been presented
very successfully off-Broadway,” Barber said. “Elaine May is outstanding in the field of theatre, and Terrence McNally is one of
the up-and-coming young playwrights.” Both plays will be presented as the first part of Davidson's Drama Workshop for 1972-73 at
7:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Admission for students will be $.50. In “Adaptation” Elaine May has taken the life of
a person and made it like a game. In a succession of humorous scenes, four players take on several roles
from birth to death. McNally’s “Next” concerns a reluctant draftee reporting for his physical. “Both plays have humor, but also
a serious point,” Barber said. “This is why I wanted the students to have an opportunity to see them.”

Bell feels that one of the strong points of his hobby are the friendships he has made with many other
people. During July of this past summer, he spent a weekend in Chicago at a convention of those who play
Postal Diplomacy. “I got to meet for the first time many of the people with whom I correspond, and that
was quite an experience,” Bell said. To his knowledge, Bell is the youngest publisher of a Postal Diplomacy newsletter. He
has been given a lot of help from other publishers of more established Diplomacy newsletters. Bell also serves as world-wide
Membership Secretary of the International Diplomacy Association, which has over 100 members. As if this wasn't enough to keep anyone
busy, Bell is involved in another aspect of his hobby. He also participates in Politico-Military War Games (PMWG’s). “These games
have no winners or losers,” he explained. “They are simulations of real-life crises and are learning experiences for the players.”
In PMWGs, players assume the roles of world leaders and are given a scenario to which they must react. A
scenario is usually a specific recreation of a world crisis. Recently, Bell did intensive research on the Middle East for
his role as Gamal Abdul Nasser in a simulation of the Suez crisis of 1956. Another PMWG that Bell is
participating in is an imagined East European crisis of 1975 dealing with a Soviet invasion of Yugoslavia. Bell will act
in the role of the Premier of Czechoslovakia. “The most exciting thing about this game is that it will be
monitored by Senator Henry Jackson and his Senate Subcommittee on National Security. I am really looking forward to this experience,”
he said. In connection with PMWGs, Bell also serves as an associate director of the Institute for Diplomatic Studies. “I
want to go into International Relations here at Davidson and hope to spend my junior year in the Middle East,”
Bell said. “Eventually, I hope to go into the foreign service or the State Department.”

Perspective By LEX VEAZEY

Student Government Officials Resign

Five student government officials at the University of South Carolina recently announced their resignations and said they planned to form
an alternative group to the present student government. The five students emphasized that the new organization will not compete with
the present student government. “But we think we can do something worthwhile and give students a viable alternative to the
present ineffective system,” they said. Senator Jay Smith said he was resigning because “student government is powerless to represent the
students, so it haggles with itself over who gets the best football tickets, rather than working on the critical parking
situation, the campus shop, or the food service.” The five resigning student government officials made the following statement: “We urge
everybody not to vote in the next election because their vote is meaningless as student government now exists. Instead of
voting in the upcoming election, we ask students to write their name on their ballot and drop it in a
box we will have in front of Russell House to register their discontent with student government's present system.”

Student Paper Under Fire

The future of the “Alligator,” the student newspaper for the University of Florida at Gainesville, is uncertain. The university's president,
Stephen O'Connell, is attempting to either place control of the paper under a publisher-editor hired by the university or force
the paper off-campus. O'Connell has been concerned about the “Alligator” since 11 months ago when its editor, Ron Sachs, was
arrested in violation of an 1868 Florida law which made it a felony to publish information concerning procurement of abortions.
However, after Sachs’s arrest, the law was declared unconstitutional. Under Florida law, O'Connell is listed officially as the publisher of
the “Alligator.” He has made it clear that he does not desire the position of publisher. “I don't think the
paper can function as an independent and free press as a unit of the university.”
