The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 14, 1972

A Well-fought Fight

Once again the democratic process has had its annual hearing on the Davidson campus and has left behind a new set of leaders to control student activity for the coming year. We would first like to extend our congratulations to the victorious candidates. If they prove to be as excellent in office as their campaign promises have led us to suspect, the college should be in good hands. To overuse an overused phrase, the proof is in the pudding. We would certainly like to see the proposed action put into effect as soon as possible, as advertised.

The campaigns themselves also deserve comment. In an election year such as this, it would be easy for the campaign to become very ugly. There was no single clear-cut issue in the campaign. All but one office was contested by only two candidates, if at all. In the absence of a real issue, the campus finally focused around the leadership potential of the candidates themselves, what they were rather than what they stood for. It is to the credit of the candidates that they did not allow the campaign to become a dirty one. Literature that was distributed emphasized the positive aspects of the individual and did not attempt to run down the qualifications of the opponent.

In a race over personalities, we had the inevitable endorsements for both presidential candidates. Such endorsements themselves marked a radical departure from Davidson politics of the past. But again they emphasized the positive aspects of the candidates. To the winners, the spoils . . . and good luck.

Winter Of Our Discontent

There are few surprises, if any, in the most recent report to come out of an SGA Senate investigative committee. The newest report, concerned with the reactions of the freshman class to the new social system and the general social atmosphere at Davidson, has found that, in essence, freshmen are dissatisfied and unhappy. So what else is new?

Freshmen at Davidson, and especially those from public high schools where girls are a part of life, have traditionally found the social life on campus sour, frustrating, and depressing. But then so have sophomores, juniors, and seniors. A brief survey of past issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN shows that in almost every winter of recent history, the freshman class has expressed its discontent, rumors of mass transfers have run wild, and tales of social trials and tribulations have been commonplace. In the end, however, the majority of transfers are by those that can’t cut it academically.

This is not to write off the social problems at Davidson, however, for they are very real indeed, and freshmen, not yet acclimated to the sterility, feel it most bitterly. The new social system is not working, and everyone knows it. The structure is faulty, the houses are less than cordial, and the freshmen are understandably giving up, and no relief appears in sight. Furthermore, with the demolition of the Union this summer, no center for those outside the Patterson Court social system will be available.

Therefore, we urge the administration to begin considering a radical shift in the present structure. Perhaps more intense assignment of freshmen for more continuous meals would be beneficial. Perhaps some assignments of larger numbers of freshmen together would help. Perhaps some financial incentive offered to the most successful cooperating clubs would aid the situation.

In any event, the time has come for some definite action concerning Davidson’s floundering social system. We're too close to monasticism now to make any more mistakes in our social life.

HOWARD RAMAGLI

Jackson, Coalition Dream Of Future Art, Exchange

“I dream things that never were and say why not.” —Robert F. Kennedy

Academics are for men who think. Education is for men who dream. Tucked away in an obscure corner of this campus is Lingle Manor. It is here that men are daring to do more than think. Men are dreaming and these dreams are becoming reality.

On the left side of a rather drab hallway in Lingle Manor is the office studio of Herb Jackson, an art professor and an artist. Herb had a dream, a dream of a national print and drawing contest at Davidson. He ‘jumped in head first” after his dream and now that dream is reality. On March 19 The Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition will open in Stowe Galleries. In its first year this competition is probably one of the top five of its kind in the U.S. It is the first national competition in the Carolinas. Somehow it surprises me that most of Davidson is still unaware of its existence.

The Davidson National is a one-man production. It was conceived and developed by Herb Jackson. He does all the work by himself. He has an average of 50 responses a day. He answers them himself. He compiled the mailing list of artists. He wrote the prospectus. Amazing that one man should do all the work for such an exciting program. Not really. Herb calls the Davidson National “a show conceived by an artist, for artists.” The reason for this is the nature of the prizes. Instead of having a first prize, there are four special purchase awards of $400 each. There is other money for purchase of works at the artist’s price. All works purchased will become part of the Davidson collection.

The dream of Herb Jackson does not stop here. A museum to house the collection is in the near future. It is something to hope for.and to work towards, and it shall not be a dream easily realized. The arts are becoming a reality at Davidson. It seems tragic that it has come so late at a supposed liberal arts college. It is here now, and I can only encourage those interested in art to support the art program, to help it grow, and to make art a leader in the educational reformation of Davidson College.

Opposite the office of Herb Jackson is the building space allotted to the Black Student Coalition. The Coalition, made up of Davidson’s token attempt at social relevancy (1.5% of the student population), moves quietly and effectively in this white refuge. These men are dreamers also, though a bit more pragmatic in their approach. They are sponsoring a program that would allow Davidson students to experience a different lifestyle. This program is a jointly sponsored student exchange program with Johnson C. Smith University. Two weekends, Jan. 20-23 and Feb. 3-6, are the designated dates for the exchange. On the first weekend, ten Davidson students will journey to Smith to be sponsored there by ten hosts. Ten Smith students will come to Davidson and ten students here will act as sponsors. On the second weekend, the sponsors and visitors will exchange roles.

The exchange includes attending Friday classes with the sponsor and tagging along with the sponsor in his various activities throughout the weekend. Ron Gibson, chairman of the Coalition, sees the program as "an opportunity to view a different lifestyle, to be involved in a different social environment." For such an exciting opportunity, I could envision a constant stream of students going to Will Terry’s office to sign up. However, I do not. Davidson students fear leaving their complacent and safe white world and venturing into a different type of society and experience, especially that of the black society and experience. I can just imagine the number of students who are a bit fearful when they have to drive through one of Charlotte's segregated black neighborhoods. The opportunity to participate in this exchange program should not be passed up. The learning experience gained by participating in the exchange will far surpass the sterility of the Davidson classroom. Perhaps the exchange will provide some Davidson students with a small insight into what it means to be black in America.

Yes, Davidson has a few dreamers, and Davidson is cluttered with too many thinkers. A friend in Raleigh observed that Davidson is “a cozy, safe, complacent, and totally unimaginative environment.” I fear there is more than a grain of truth in that statement. Davidson has a great potential to change. There are men at Davidson who dare to dream. Though they are few, and the odds are heavily against them, they reach out to touch the exciting, the novel, and the imaginative. There is a small candle of hope burning in a dark, stale community of thinkers. This candle of hope is held by those who dare to ask, why not?

Rolland Rejects Guest House Site

To The Editor:

The recent announcement of intent on the part of the College Union to annex the Guest House must leave the disinterested observer at best confused. It left me dumbfounded. It is a shocking thing indeed to find the Union, just at a time when the tumor is about to be removed, in such a curious state of metastasis. Yes, it is a sad thing when such a delightfully irreverent piece of campus architecture as the Guest House is to be overrun in the path of such a hideous malignancy. If an excuse for this outrage is not to be found, the rather scandalous reason behind it is at least reasonably clear. The Union, long denied its coveted position as center of the campus, has taken the event of its eviction as occasion for the acquisition of this role by violence. It will simply replace some useful institution: the laundry or the Guest House or the Chambers dining hall.

You may object here to the word replace. You may say, “The Guest House patrons will be housed under the stadium (How strange! In a $10 million underground apartment complex or in the ticket booth? Or perhaps on the ruins of the handball courts.) or in Richardson dormitory (Very well if you mean the girls can sleep with their dates—why single out Richardson? On the other hand, I suspect that some official visitors, parents, alumni, etc. might find the sexual tastes of their new roommates somewhat disarming.) or in the Gray House if a women’s dorm is built (Sometime in the next 15 years. Meanwhile, the girls might as well sleep in the union director's office.)"

It is surprising, in fact, that the “committee for investigation of possible sites for the Union” did not recommend the whole of Chambers. Classes could certainly be held out of doors where the fresh air and exhilarating fluctuations in weather might stimulate the intellects of gifted Davidson naturalists. And what a splendid, centrally located, functional structure with adequate space for all the student organizations for years to come.

Yes, the Union is spreading, diffusing, digging in for a long siege: and what are we to do? Well, if chemotherapy, radiation, prayer, etc. fail, I recommend that the small, shrine-like fountain on the front lawn of Chambers be furnished with a desk, a telephone, a hundred-dollar-judge’s-chair, and three secretaries, preferably well endowed: be walled up: and upon it on all four sides be affixed a sign which reads:

“Director of Placement, Director of the College Union, and a magician quite possibly...”

Bill Rolland ‘73
Davidson College