The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
MARCH 10, 1972

Top Secret?

At this week's “Any Questions?” session with the administration, the discussion turned to coeducation when one student asked the status
of the long-awaited coeducation report. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan responded, saying that the Educational Policy Committee
(EPC) had written the actual plan of implementation, and that the committee was now waiting for the Business Office to
complete a cost-analysis of the plan. The student then asked what the plan entailed; Dr. Bevan evaded the question. The
student persisted, and Dr. Bevan finally replied, “I’m sorry, but the report is confidential.”

This is not an unusual response to a student query. In fact, it seems as if there is hardly an
issue on this campus that is not confidential. Rarely does a week pass without a faculty member or an administrator
avoiding student questions with such lame excuses as: “We have not made a final decision on that issue yet,” or
“I cannot give you this information until I distribute it to the faculty.”

A typical example occurred this fall when THE DAVIDSONIAN published a front-page story reporting that the EPC had approved the
three-year graduation plan (program for accelerated progress). Since the newspaper regularly covers EPC meetings, this was not a departure from
existing procedures. Dr. Bevan, under pressure from some faculty members, dashed off a memo to the reporter and castigated him
for writing the story without the vice president’s approval and before the EPC decision had been distributed to the faculty.
The fact remains that after the EPC had passed the measure, there was no real reason why it could not
have been reported. Surely no member of this faculty is so egotistical or so childish to believe he should be
the first to hear the news. And surely no faculty member who is concerned about the financial solvency of the
college would encourage the wasted time and paper involved in constantly mimeographing proposals. Yet faculty members of faculty committees seem
to enjoy this game of secrecy or what might be called the “I know something that you don’t know” syndrome.

We feel that if faculty committees are really concerned about making decisions in the best interests of the college, they
will debate the issues in the public forum rather than in the ivory tower. Such secrecy makes us ask: What
do faculty committees have to hide? The fact remains that many things are kept secret simply because they have traditionally
remained secret. The administration has been just as guilty of secrecy as the faculty. In the past several months, first
floor Chambers has begun to think and act like the Pentagon, with public information kept private under the cloak of
administrative privilege. In other words, the college wants to control the informational sources of students and faculty. We understand that
such areas which include personalities are naturally sensitive and therefore should not be publicized. But issues are issues, with arguments
pro and con. Publication will injure no one.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has made several laudable attempts this year to break down the web of secrecy
which shrouds the decision-making process. He made every effort to be completely open in the deliberations over the placement of
the temporary Union. But unfortunately, some of his subordinates in the administration decided not to follow his lead. When something
is kept secret, it indicates that someone may be trying to hide something. In a sense, secrecy is a device
to protect the guilty. Such argumentation leads to the ultimate question: What does this administration have to hide?

The question is especially relevant this month as the Business Office finishes next year’s budget. We understand why individual faculty
salaries should not be publicized; individuals have a right to their privacy. But there is no justification for the Business
Office to hide the line-by-line budget of college services and operating funds. The Governance Committee under Walter Lingle’s direction seems
to have taken the only sane approach to confidentiality. The actions of the committee are publicized meeting by meeting without
any record of who said what. Since the focus is on the issues, not personalities, the committee works in an
atmosphere of openness with the rest of the community.

Davidson College is not a very happy place at the moment, and one contributing factor is routine secrecy. Just as
the credibility of the federal government has been undermined by revelations of secret happenings, so the credibility of the administration
and many faculty committees is being eroded. Again we ask: What do you have to hide?

GRAY WILSON

Social System Edict Causes Polarization Among Students

It is that time of year, one term later than in previous years, when Patterson Court holds rush, which you
may call open house, or open house, which you may call fraternity rush. But be careful what you call it.
This time, ten weeks later than usual (which you may call administrative lag), Davidson is supposed to experience a new
dawning in its social life, with nifty self-selective opportunities to allow freshmen freedom of choice as long as personal preference
and taste are not so exclusive as to threaten humanity. The password is “variety.” You may call it a marked
indiscriminate propensity for diversification, which means that the roll call this time includes national and local fraternities, eating clubs, front
organizations for crafty off-campus fraternities (Son of Snu), vacant houses (start your own commune), and a German theatre to pick
from when freshmen make up their minds.

Of course, the freshmen have had twenty weeks of other chances to visit the court, randomly. Chances to eat a
meal, to get to know what all the food in every house is really like, to commune with chipped beef
on toast. And they better do a good job of sampling because the Union will be gone next year and
the A&R Ralphing Rodeo will descend upon the court en masse.

There was one problem, however, which will result from this week’s activities. There were not enough options, which you may
call a lack of variety. The fraternity men_ couldn't keep the undesirables who liked them out. The desirables consequently couldn’t
all get in because the undesirables wanted in too. The locals will get stuck with some who wanted to be
national because there was no more room in the other houses. Thus half the freshmen who wanted something more meaningful
than a place at the table on Patterson Court could not get it while the other half that didn’t want
much got something they did not want at all. This is how random assignment and self-selection do not work. But
watch what you say about them.

Turning back the academic calendar a year or so, one may examine the source of the present social amoeba at
Davidson. It all began with the presidential premise that students at this school were a little better than human, that
everyone would have something socially and intellectually valuable to offer to everyone else. The conclusion: a random grouping of students
on Patterson Court, tempered by self-selection to divide the number evenly among the houses, would create a hive buzzing with
mellifluous activity and humanitarian productivity. The result: an ant heap. The president was wrong, wrong in principle. Some houses folded,
others compromised, some hung on to their house and its former identity, a few daring ones fled off campus and
to geographic immunity. Those which were nothing before the crisis died or just remained nothing. The interesting groups were those
which survived, not out of spite, but through the very cunning and creativity that are part of the human nature
which the president despised and consequently ignored in his basic plan.

So what, in a year or so, have been the results of such administrative blundering? The most obvious effect is
the polarization which exists among different groups of students diametrically opposed in opinion and temperament though comparable in intelligence. A
second result is the general student distrust and disdain for the administration, most recently manifested by the successful movement to
abolish a comprehensive board fee, another little financial pressure to “encourage” the new social system. Perhaps the most tragic result
of the changes on Patterson Court can be seen among the freshmen. Unable to perfect themselves in time to adjust
to an egalitarian social life after so many years of living in the “real world,” they have become disillusioned with
the emptiness and artificiality of campus society.

There is hope, or rather a choice, however, whichever you may wish to call it. Davidson must move in either
of two distinctive directions in the coming years. One would be to abandon the principles which have characterized the past
and the traditional image of this school for a college attended by students who approve of the new system and
its presidential and administrative advocates, or tyrants, whichever you may wish to call them. The other direction would be to
preserve those principles which are still desirable and viable at Davidson while leaving social life entirely up to the student
body, meaning of course that the students conceivably entertain opinions and insights contrary to the present administrative stance. The important
conclusion about this second direction, however, is that it does not point to a return to the old social system
but to the uninhibited development (non in loco parentis) of a setup all its own, tailored to suit all student
tastes.

Not everyone liked the old system. Few like the new system. The desirable direction then is one which allows the
students to choose their own type of social life, be it one homogeneous structure or a maze of 1,000 individual
organizations. Again I stress that the decision to accept the new social system as it presently flounders or to choose
another one must be left up to the student body. There can be no compromise on random assignment and self-selection
because they are contrary in principle to human nature, not to mention life. No administrative edict can supplant this fact.

Entertainment | By BILL ELLETT Copy Editor

Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus will present “a cornucopia of fantastic human and animal acts and daring-do performances
unfolding without letup in a dazzling, heady succession of breath-taking, death-defying moments” at the Charlotte Coliseum March 15-19. Tickets range
from $3 to $5 for the ten performances: Wednesday at 8:15 p.m.; Thursday at 4:15 and 8:15 p.m.; Friday at
4:15 and 8:15 p.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m., 3 and 8 p.m., and Sunday at 2:30 and 6:30 p.m.

David Bar-Illan, an Israeli pianist, returns to the Charlotte Community Concerts Saturday night at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. Admission
is normally by season ticket, but a few singles may be sold at the door for $5 each.

“Consumerism 1972: Laissez-faire Re-examined” is the subject of this year’s Focus '72 at Randolph-Macon Woman’s College March 29 and 30.
Keynote speaker Ralph Nader will address the symposium at 8 p.m. Wednesday. Following a day of informal seminars, Betty Furness
will speak at 7:30 p.m. Thursday. Tickets are $4 and are available at Davidson.

from the principles which have characterized the past and the traditional image of this school for a college attended by
students who approve of the new system and its presidential and administrative advocates, or tyrants, whichever you may wish to
call them. The other direction would be to preserve those principles which are still desirable and viable at Davidson while
leaving social life entirely up to the student body, meaning of course that the students conceivably entertain opinions and insights
contrary to the present administrative stance. The important conclusion about this second direction, however, is that it does not point
to a return to the old social system but to the uninhibited development (non in loco parentis) of a setup
all its own, tailored to suit all student tastes.

Not everyone liked the old system. Few like the new system. The desirable direction then is one which allows the
students to choose their own type of social life, be it one homogeneous structure or a maze of 1,000 individual
organizations. Again I stress that the decision to accept the new social system as it presently flounders or to choose
another one must be left up to the student body. There can be no compromise on random assignment and self-selection
because they are contrary in principle to human nature, not to mention life. No administrative edict can supplant this fact.

Ralph Peeples.

“A Cry of Players” by William Gibson will be presented by the Drama department of Central Piedmont Community College March
16, 17 and 18. Tickets to this earthy semi-biography of William Shakespeare are $1.50 at the door but can be
reserved for $1 by calling CPCC.

“Hamlet” by William Shakespeare will be shown at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the Denny Building at UNC-C. The soundtrack of
the movie is in German, but English subtitles have been added. There is no admission charge.

“How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying” is the current production at the Pineville Dinner Theatre. Shepard Mead’s comedy
stars Phil Freeman and Martin MacDonald. The buffet opens at 7 p.m. with the curtain rising at 8:45. Prices range
from $7 to $10, depending on the night.

“Games and Pictures,” a set of three short plays written by UNC-C students, will be presented at 8:15 p.m. March
9, 10 and 11 in the Experimental Theatre of the Rowe Creative Arts Building on the UNC-C campus. Student admission
is $1.
