Spencer Discusses Junior Year Abroad, Coeducation
By TOM BRUCE
Staff Writer

At a Tuesday Open End, President Samuel R. Spencer fielded questions from a receptive student audience on coeducation, foreign study
programs, and the hiring of a Clinical Psychologist. Spencer reassured students that some decision, “either yea or nay,” would come
from the Trustees at their May meeting on the coeducation issue.

Spencer emphasized the work of the Educational Policy Committee to certify faculty, student, and alumni support and to come up
with some viable proposal to make the changeover. Spencer stated that he had rejected the idea of implementing coeducation through
purely administrative means that would not consult student and faculty viewpoints. He cited the committee of Associate Professor of History
W. Brown Patterson as doing a service that would enlist the ideas of many persons instead of just a few.
Spencer said that he would review the committee's findings and act on them before they are submitted to the trustees.

Spencer said that students should not nurse false hopes that coeducation “will be a panacea to solve every problem and
cure every complaint.” On the subject of declining admissions, Spencer said, “One of the reasons I am in favor of
coeducation is the growing evidence that prospective students are repelled by the thought of an all-male school.” “Declining admissions may
indicate a need to implement coeducation,” he added.

When a student raised a question concerning low campus morale as evidenced by the recent hall counselor’s petition, Spencer answered,
“During every year, particularly at this time, there is a morale slump. I know this from personal experience because I
seriously considered transferring during my freshman year at Davidson.”

Answering a question on dissatisfaction evidenced by some students returning from Junior Year Abroad in France or Greece, Spencer stated
that he had asked the Foreign Study Committee to provide for a program where students could spend two years studying
in a foreign country. He added that he was very concerned to learn...

India Coming To Davidson As Ten Speak, Sleep Hindi

Ten American college students will be speaking, eating, sleeping, and working with the Hindi language during a unique, intensive eight-week
language institute near Davidson College this summer, supported by a $10,215 grant from the U.S. Office of Education. The grant
was secured by Davidson acting as agent for the Southern Atlantic States Association for South Asian Studies (SASASAS), an organization
of 15 colleges and universities developing South Asian studies programs.

Frederick H. Gaige, director of Davidson’s South Asian studies program and chairman of the SASASAS, described the summer institute: “This
will be the first time in this country that there has been such a total-immersion type of program in the
Hindi language. We plan to rent a large house or farm near Davidson, and all participants will be totally involved
with Hindi and the study of India, where Hindi is spoken.

“In addition to learning the language using textbooks and tape recorders, students will eat and even prepare Indian food, hear
recorded radio broadcasts from India, play Indian musical instruments and Indian sports, and speak the Hindi language as much as
possible. Next to living in India, this will be the best possible environment in which to learn this language.”

The program’s linguist-director will be John T. Roberts, assistant professor of Hindi and Linguistics at the University of Virginia. His
wife will serve as part-time secretary and bookkeeper. The language instructor will be Harbans Lal Narang, assistant professor of education
at the University of Saskatchewan, Canada. His wife, also a native of India, will be in charge of preparing meals
and organizing the household.

The program will provide National Defense Foreign Language (NDFL) Fellowships, covering all basic expenses, for five undergraduate students and...Five graduate
students. Enrollment will not be limited to the SASASAS institutions, although recruitment efforts will be mostly directed at those schools.
The program will be taught on two levels: introductory (Hindi 1-2) for undergraduates, and advanced (Hindi 3-4) for graduate students.
Gaige noted that the U.S. Office of Education is awarding that four of last year’s returnees had left Davidson. When
a student asked about his feelings on the role of the Clinical Psychologist at Davidson, Spencer directed the question to
Vice-President for Academic Affairs John Bevan. Bevan said, "I am somewhat concerned about the possibility of a counseling overload. I
am generalizing about the number of persons who will require the help of a clinical psychologist, but I would estimate
it to be 25 at any given time. There might be as many as 100 others who need only a
sympathetic listener, a service that might better be rendered by faculty members, the Dean of Students, or the Chaplain. Maybe
we should consider hiring a Chaplain with training in this area. I am very conscious of a counseling overload."

January 21, 1972 | Page Three
The Davidsonian (Staff Photo by Barnes)

RAPPING WITH STUDENTS: Spencer and Bevan respond to student queries.

Hall Counselors To Be Chosen
By DAVID ARANT
Staff Writer

On Jan. 19, applications will be available to rising juniors to fill the hall counselor positions for next year’s freshman
class. The deadline for applications will be Jan. 29. Dean of Students Will H. Terry again faces the task of
hiring 25 students who will make acceptable hall counselors. If the number of applicants is close to past response, Terry
predicts that about fifty to sixty students will be interested in the position. After the deadline date, the selection of
the counselors from the applications begins. "A selection committee of Mrs. Scotty Nicholls, William B. Hight, a group of present
hall counselors, president of the RHC, president of the student body, and myself will evaluate the applications," Terry said. Terry
noted the importance of the application itself in deciding the final selection. Along with this, each applicant will undergo a
personal interview. Each applicant is encouraged to take a personality inventory administered by Dr. Hight. The type of person the
selection committee wants for a hall counselor is "one who really wants to do the job, who has concern for
people, who is willing to spend the hours necessary in his job, and whose attitude toward Davidson is constructive," according
to Terry.

The Coffee Cup
DEPOT ST.
6 a.m. - 7 p.m.
Breakfast served until 11:00 a.m.
Seafood—Sandwiches
Home-cooked vegetables

After the applicants have been reviewed in this manner, the final selection will be announced in the middle of February.
After the selection, the hall counselors will have a sensitivity session in preparation for their job. Also, Terry hopes to
increase the hall counselors’ knowledge needed in guiding the freshmen. In summing up the role of the hall counselor, Terry
said, "The hall counselor probably makes the most important contribution of any individual on campus. He is invaluable to the
life of the college and the individual freshman." Many of the present hall counselors echoed Terry's belief. "You would be
surprised at how many problems entering freshmen face," said one hall counselor. "I've found that I have to deal with
many personal and intimate problems as well as the academic problems." Another counselor this year said he was amazed at
the amount of time counseling takes.

892-8468
tastee-freez of Cornelius
BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET
“It’s Incomparable”
Sandwiches — Pizza
Sundaes
50 FLAVOR SHAKES
10-9 P.M.

Davidson, N.C.
January Sale Continues
All Regular Winter Slacks Now 1/2 Price
This offer good Sat. 22nd - Sat. 29th
Alterations Extra
THE RED HANGER
Phone 892-7561
