Page Fight April 14, 1972 The Davidsonian

Erratic Batters Fail Conference Tests
By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

This was supposed to be the year for Davidson baseball. However, the team has been inconsistent at the plate and woeful in the field, and has failed to live up to pre-season expectations. Last weekend’s road trip proved disastrous, as the Cats dropped three straight conference games. VMI blanked the Cats 3-0 Sunday, and Monday Richmond swept a twinbill 5-4 and 8-6. The losses dropped Coach Tom Stevens’ squad to a 1-6 conference mark and 7-10 in all games.

“I’m real disappointed,” commented Stevens, “and the boys are, too. They know they’re better.” Stevens indicated that changes are in store for the team, as he makes a determined effort to snap the team out of the doldrums. “I’m thinking about switching some people around. I’m still trying to find the right combination on defense.”

(Staff photo by Rodriguez)
SEVENTH SERVE STRETCH
Scott Dimon stretches for a serve against N. C. State.

The Cats were guilty of 14 errors in the three games, and Stevens pointed to this “inability to make the routine play” defensively as their downfall. Against VMI, freshman Dwight Plemmons pitched what Stevens termed “the best he’s pitched all year,” allowing just four hits and only one earned run. However, the team did not hit, and Stevens is baffled by this inconsistency at the plate. “We seem to hit good pitching better than poor pitching,” the veteran skipper lamented, noting that the VMI hurler was not especially strong.

Against Richmond the team ripped 22 hits, but fell apart defensively, committing ten errors. Stevens singled out freshmen Bill Todd and George Weicker, who sparked the Cats’ batting barrage. Todd rapped four hits, including a controversial double (which Stevens felt was a home run) and Weicker “hit like I’ve been expecting all season,” said Stevens.

Stevens attributed the defensive problems to a number of weaknesses, particularly in the infield. He pointed out that Mark Rodgman has had to adjust at third base from catcher, his normal position, in order for Stevens to get his bat into the lineup. Jack Latimer’s knee injury has reduced his mobility at second and shortstop Jack Willits is not playing up to his capabilities, according to Stevens. In an effort to improve the team's defense, Stevens indicated that he may use Bick Halligan, a slick fielder but a weak hitter, more in the future. “I’m willing to give up some hitting for defense right now,” Stevens commented. “We’re capable of beating anyone, but we just haven’t been able to put it all together,” he added.

Greg Sikes leads the team in hitting with a .346 average, followed by Weicker at .339, Harold Wilkerson at .287, and Jack Willits at .274. Plemmons and Mike Frye are the team’s top pitchers. Plemmons sports a 2-2 record with a 2.54 ERA, while Frye tops the mound staff with a 1.46 ERA. Yesterday the Cats faced Pfeiffer in Misenheimer, and they travel to East Carolina for a twinbill tomorrow.

‘Fantastic’ Grid Recruiting Yields 42 Freshman Signees
By DAVID MELTON
Staff Writer

Head Football Coach Dave Fagg characterized this recruiting year by saying “We’ve done a fantastic recruiting job.” According to Fagg, “We anticipate forty-two freshmen reporting to Davidson for football next fall.” Fagg stated that there are many names to remember next fall. At quarterback the signees are Gary Hutchison, a 6-0, 195-pounder from Dothan, Ala., and Jose Rodriguez from Beckley, W. Va. Other offensive backfield recruits are Steve Stec, 6-0, 190, from Baltimore, Md.; Jeff Heinicka, a 5-9 speedster from Seminole, Fla.; and Hal Peacock.

Improving Netters Whip Dogs
By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

“The best play of the whole year” was how tennis coach Harry Fogleman termed his team’s performances in their last two matches. Playing down in Charleston, S. C. last Saturday against The Citadel, Fogleman thought that it was a much closer match than the...Cats’ winning 7-2 score vindicated. The netmen won five of their six singles matches in straight sets, with Dave Weaver picking up the only loss to the Bulldog's Phil Gaillard in straight sets of 3-6, 1-6. Davidson also picked up two doubles matches to round out the total. The Cats lost to N. C. State last Tuesday, however, by an identical 7-2 tally, in which six of the nine matches had to go three sets. Weaver fell again, this time in three sets to the Wolfpack's Thorny Strong 4-6, 6-3, 4-6.

Friday, April 14
8:19 a.m. Tennis with Richmond, Richmond, Va.
2 p.m. Tennis with VMI, Lexington, Va.

Saturday, April 15
1:30 p.m. Baseball with ECU (2)
2 p.m. Rugby with James River
Davidson Relays all day

Monday, April 17
2:30 p.m. Tennis with Pfeiffer

Tuesday, April 18
2:30 p.m. Tennis with Furman

Wednesday, April 19
Track with Wake Forest, Winston-Salem

Thursday, April 20
3 p.m. Baseball with Duke, here
7:30 p.m. Baseball with UNC, Chapel Hill

Likewise, all of the doubles matches went three sets with the Cats at match point several times, only to lose. Nevertheless, Fogleman praised his team's style, commenting that they seem to be "thinking better."

“The boys now realize that you've got to get the ball over the net and into the court,” he added. “If we play as well as we did in the last two matches, we can win the majority of our remaining games,” commented Fogleman in reference to his future schedule which includes both Furman and the Naval Academy.

Bill Allen is Fogleman’s choice for the player performing the best so far, with Gary Bressler also showing more consistency in his game. In regard to last week’s tennis article in which he criticized the team’s performance and attitude, Fogleman said that his team members “probably weren’t too happy with it, but if it shook them up, it did some good.”

The team plays Richmond and V.M.I. today in a round-robin tournament in Lexington.

At the end position, Fagg signed a pair of 175-pounders. They are: Mike Eubanks, 6-0, from Louisville, Ky., and Jimmy Haslam, 6-2, from Knoxville, Tenn. Jim Mishler, 6-3, 197, from Metamora, Ill. rounds out the group.

The defensive backfield should also be strengthened. Signees at this position include: Jay Dawson, 6-0, 185-pounder from Pittsburgh, Pa.; Greg Kappler, 6-2, 218, from Baltimore, Md.; Hal Paul, 6-1, 180-pound performer, from Finley, Ohio; and Mike Reaves, 6-2, 175, from Alta Vista, Va.

The offensive and defensive line recruits boast four players who weigh two hundred pounds or more. They are: Brian Mitchell, 6-4, 250, from Hamilton, Ohio; Jim De Ville, 6-2, 230, from Ashton, Md.; Scott Hall, 6-2, 200, from Fort Wayne, Ind.; and Ben Teerwick, 6-1, from Asheboro. Tom Cevert, a 6-2, 200-pounder, from Prospecta, Ohio, rounds out the linemen signees.

Fagg signed four 6-0, 200-pound performers for Cynthia, Ky. Fagg put together a class by himself. Kearns was from Kentucky.

A huge eligibility rule, which freshmen too years ago for varsity, is likely the situation. We have a lot of guilt built into the team. They can come in and help us.

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.

Jewelry

Discover the World on Your SEMESTER AT SEA
Sails each September & February
Combine accredited study with educational stops in Africa, Australasia, and the Orient. Over 5000 students from 450 campuses have already experienced this international program. A wide range of financial aid is available. Write now for a free catalog: WCA, Chapman College, Box CC12, Orange, Cal. 92666

The Hub
OPEN 9-8 MONDAY - SATURDAY