The Davidsonian October 13, 1972 Page Eleven

IMAC Rules On Varsity, JV Eligibility

By CAPTAIN AMERICA
and BUCKY
Staff Writers

Last Monday's IMAC meeting resulted in the clarification of two important eligibility issues.

With the beginning of J.V. sports this year, the IMAC representatives decided that J.V. participants cannot play in the intramural sport that corresponds to their J.V. sport.

Also, the IMAC heads have loosened one rule to the effect that if an athlete is playing a varsity or J.V. sport, he is ineligible only for that corresponding sport in intramurals. This allows baseball players to do intramural track, wrestlers to play basketball, etc.

In flickerball this past week not a hell of a lot happened. Top teams crushed lower teams and the standings remained pretty much the same.

In League A, the SIFs led by Reggie Harding rolled over Watts I 40-6 in an uninspired effort.

The KAs, however, just nipped PDT as they scored in the waning seconds to come out on top 30-26.

The SPEs moved into the tournament picture by picking up two wins. They were given a forfeit win by the ATOs and later in the week crushed a weak SI 52-0 to move their third-place record to 4-1.

F&M roughed up a couple of cellar dwellers in the ATO and CSB, by a forfeit score and a 39-18 punishment, respectively.

Led by nobody in particular, beat-up SI backed into their first win, a 1-0 forfeit job over the ATOs, who have forfeited the rest of their schedule. (Note to professor J.J. Young: “This validates Aquinas’ motion argument that God does indeed exist”).

There are a couple of big flickerball games left on the schedule as PDT II meets PAX on Monday and PAX still has the big makeup game with SAE.

League B Rosters

These are the rosters of the top teams in IMAC League B. The top three teams are PAX 4-1, PDT II 5-1, and the SAEs 4-1.

PAX 4-0
Sefton Stevens
Larry Duncan
Steve Earp
John Scandling
Rob Benton
Dave Williams
Jim Shepard
Dave Huffine
Steve Suflas
John Hornickel
Dave McWilliams
Tom Ainsworth
Rob Krebs
Craig Yoder
Cal Morton
Dave Melton
Tom Dover
Ted Acuff
Bill McKinnon
Frank Somerville
Reggie Kennedy
Dick Dabbs
Denson Hargrove
Mike Reed

PDT II 5-1
Tom Campen
Glenn Mee
Bob Lewis
Bick Halligan
Bill McIlwain
Mike Ernst
Mitch Purvis
Bob Banta
Dave Curtiss
Tom Bernhardt
Jim Brown
Dave Mast
Mark Pandick
Andy Ingles
Mike Kelly
Drew White
Jack Greer
Henry Barber
Bill Allen

SAE 4-1
Alford
Avary
Baird
Basham
Boyd
Buckingham
Burton
Carter
Chapman
Covington
Cuttino
Davidson
Dorsett
DuPont
Fitzgerald
Fort
Frye
Hassel
Henson
Horton
Howdy
Jennings
Johnson
Jones
Keller
Kent
Kirk
Knox
Kot
Lail
McCall
Mitchner
Mullins
Pearce
Lundy

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry

Tanner
Weaver
Wilson

Jewelers of trusted reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N.C.

Mon. - Fri.
9 - 5:30

CAMPUS CLOTHES

for Males and Females

Jeans
Jean Tops
Turtle Necks
Baggies
Painted Belts

DUNHAM “Waffle-Stampers”

Come browse and see our “Bad” Clothes.

OPEN FRIDAY NIGHTS

John Mack & Son

Mooresville - Only 6 miles north

look at his record.

Foreign Policy:

President Nixon went to Moscow in May of this year where he negotiated agreements with the Soviet Union to limit development of antiballistic missile systems, jointly explore space, and combat the diseases plaguing mankind. In March, he visited Peking where he made a start toward improving relations between the U.S. and the People's Republic of China. The President has called a halt to crisis diplomacy, seeking to reduce tension in such troubled areas as the Middle East.

The Economy:

President Nixon has taken strong action to flatten inflation and increase employment. He initiated a 90-day wage-price freeze, followed by more flexible controls, and introduced a package of tax cuts to stimulate the economy. The inflation rate has been cut in half, and the Gross National Product has expanded at a yearly rate of over 7%. Housing starts are up 42% over last year.

Vietnam: The President has done everything in his power to bring peace to Vietnam without sacrificing the South Vietnamese in the process. He has brought home 500,000 men, reduced casualties by 98%, and cut spending by two-thirds. As this is written, strong steps are being taken to get the enemy to cease its aggression and make peace.

U.S. TROOPS IN VIETNAM

Thousands

600 Nixon takes office ———.@ 543,400

‘65 '66 '67 '68 '69 '70 '71 '72

Young Americans:

President Nixon has signed into law the bill giving 18-year-olds the right to vote, overhauled the selective service system with the goal of establishing an all-volunteer army, and has proposed an education program that would guarantee a college education to all who qualify.