RUTH WILLIAMS
...Rho Alpha Chi

CANDY BAKER
...Sigma Phi Epsilon

EDWINA MASON
...Grey House

DIXIE TAYLOR
...Sigma Alpha Epsilon

KAREN COOK
...Fannie and Mable's

October 27, 1972 Page Seven

Homecoming Queen

SHELLY APPLE
...Pi Kappa Alpha

1972

SUSAN DAWSON
...Phi Gamma Delta

Candidates

SHARON JOHNSON
...Emanon

JULIE HUNT
...Phi Delta Theta

GINGER HUDSON
...Kappa Alpha

BARBARA BROTHERS
...Apple Turnovers

Boz Scaggs Stays In Rhythm And Blues

By JOE EARLE

In these days of country-rock, when the steel guitar is treated like an instrument for rock and roll, it's nice
to come across a performer who continues to experiment with rhythm and blues.

It's even more exciting when one stumbles onto recordings made by a true rhythm and blues stylist, a performer who
can rework the standard forms into personal statements.

Boz Scaggs is such a performer. On his new release, “My Time,” Scaggs flirts with several diverse r ‘n b
styles, ranging from Smokey Robinson's ballads to New Orleans rockers.

Scaggs has been around a long time, starting with the Steve Miller Band back in the heyday of San Francisco,
through Mother Earth, and finally on his own. His perseverance has paid off.

Scaggs's music is intelligent, creative rhythm and blues. Like Van Morrison, The Electric Flag, and other West Coast rhythm and
blues experimenters, Scaggs brings a freshness to his music that is often lacking in the formulas dreamed up in Motown
or Memphis.

“My Time” opens with “Dinah Flo,” as exciting a song as Morrison at his best. The bass rocks along as
Scaggs works against a chorus and horn section.

Although he utilizes all the traditional r ‘n b sections—a tight rhythm section, horns, background vocals—Scaggs puts his songs together
in a tight, controlled manner. There is no excess here, just good music.

On “Dinah Flo,” he cuts loose with his vocals, working the song to a fever pitch with Morrison-like vocal work.

But he quickly shows that he refuses to stay stylistically in one place. After a jumping opener, he slides into
“Slowly In The West,” a soft ballad.

Next comes “Full-Lock Power Slide,” a hard rocker, which is followed by a beautiful little song, “Old Time Loving,” and
a quiet, jazzy “Might Have To Cry.”

But it's on the second side that Scaggs showcases his real talents. This side could almost stand as a study
of various styles. He works with five different branches of the tradition in the five songs, and every one works.

First comes “Hello My Lover,” which is old New Orleans music. It sounds like it could have been slipped onto
Dr. John's "Gumbo" and no one would have noticed, except for the improvement in the voice.

Scaggs next brings in “Freedom For The Stallion,” which shows New Orleans in 1972. It's an Allen Toussaint song, with
the chorus and horns rising and falling around Scaggs's lead vocals.

From Toussaint, he touches on a little Smokey Robinson with “He's A Fool For You.” His voice is surprisingly strong
in the high range.

He rounds out the album with a good rocker titled “We're Gonna Roll,” and the title cut. “My Time” features
a variety of sounds run together, including bells and woodblocks.

Scaggs's music has a lot of roots; he owes a lot to a lot of different styles, from jazz to
Van Morrison. But like Morrison, he remains above the traditions he works with, making each song individual and exciting.

It’s nice to find a person who works within the r ‘n b tradition, especially when that person is as
talented and as creative as Boz Scaggs.

New Center Fights Parenthood

By GARY STEWART
Staff Writer

A Planned Parenthood Center has recently opened in Charlotte where students in the area may acquire contraceptives as well as
pregnancy testing and counseling.

All types of contraceptive devices are available including pills, condoms, IUDs, and foams. The clinic also provides information on abortions,
homes for unwed mothers, adoption services, pregnancy testing, and counseling.

“If a person is sexually active, the need for contraceptive devices should be recognized,” said Kathy Norman, associate director of
the center in Charlotte.

Since the center has opened, Miss Norman said that students have been visiting.

“We've seen a lot of Queen's girls,” she said.

Miss Norman also hopes to help Davidson organize a course in human sexuality in the near future which other colleges
are already offering.

The center will help set up “legal, medical” abortions in North Carolina or Washington, D.C., according to Miss Norman. Under
North Carolina law, abortions are only done when the mental or physical well-being of the mother is in danger.

There is a residency requirement of 30 days prior to the operation which will cost about $350. If an abortion
won't be granted in North Carolina, then the center will help make the arrangements in Washington, D.C. where an abortion
costs about $125.

“We will help her face the decision, financially arrange the trip, and find a place for her to stay in
Washington,” Miss Norman said.

Kathy Norman stressed that “too many people consider abortions as a method of contraception. An abortion is not a good
contraceptive when so many others are available. It is an emotional strain on the girl besides being expensive and inconvenient.”
