FIGHTING FOR THE FACULTY
H. Edmunds White defends the honor of the Faculty in IMAC tennis.

IMAC Leagues Show Balance
By CHARLIE SLAGLE and RICK HUSSIAN
Staff Writers

Softball is now in full swing and the races are shaping up in both leagues. In League A, Our Boys
Gang, Beta, and the Delts are all undefeated. OBG (3-0), a group of dedicated seniors, are led by strong hitting
Blair Abee and an infield consisting of Alex Gordon, Bill Lear, Tommy Ross, and Will Ryan. The Betas (3-0) have
a talented four-man outfield of John Robison, Jeff Lynn, Ed Dietrich, and Dennis Jones. Frank Clark is also good at
his third base position. The Delts (2-0) boast an excellent defense headed by Tom Traxler, who pitched a shutout against
Sentelle IV. Backing him up are Drew White, Woody Montgomery, Hugh Gaither, and Dave Kittrell.

Pax I (1-1) are led by pitcher Robin Gray and batsman Tom Dover. Also carrying a big stick is Dave
Williams. The ATOs (1-1) leaders are Jim Roy, Brian Tarr, and Charlie Heiner. Watts II (1-1), now developing after a
bad start, has good hitters Tom Tornee, Chris Ely, and Steve Russell. Emanon (1-2) has stars in Mike Thomason, Steve
Gadaire, and Robbie Little. The Gamms (0-2) boast Max Thomason, Bruce Simpson, and slick-fielding freshman Marty Williamson.

Soccer Club Downs Celenese Booters
By BRUCE BECKER
Staff Writer

Last Sunday, the Davidson Soccer Club defeated the Charlotte "Celenese" Soccer Club by a score of 4-3 in Charlotte. Two
goals apiece were scored by Dick LeVan and international student Clement Rousenq. This Sunday at 2 p.m., the soccer club
will meet the Charlotte Soccer Club.

The Davidson Soccer Club was recently chartered by the SGA. It has two primary functions. First, the club provides an
opportunity for off-season training for the varsity. Most of the players will try out for the varsity team next fall.
Secondly, but most importantly, the club is trying to create an interest in soccer on campus. "I want to stress
that the club is not for the varsity players alone, but for everyone on campus," said Tom Tornee.

To help achieve this purpose, the club is sponsoring soccer films to be shown with no price of admission to
the college community. Next Tuesday through Thursday, April 18-20, at 8 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium, it will show the 1969
Paris Cup: Scotland vs. Russia. "We don’t want people to be afraid to join because the varsity players are out
there. We want to attract anyone with an interest in the game," said Tornee.

The team practices each week on Monday and Thursday afternoons on the soccer field. "The beautiful thing about soccer," said
Tornee, "is that soccer is the only American sport in which the player does not need height or weight." The
soccer club was originally organized two years ago by LeVan. Interest had waned until the varsity team won its second
championship this past season. The club hopes to organize to the point that it can afford good referees, more extensive
away trips, and more programs.

Sentelle IV (0-2) has big men Joe Evans, Richard Romeyn, and Bill Green. The strong performers for Cannon I (0-3)
are Will Dunn, Jim Prince, and Kevin James.

The leader in League B is F&M (3-0), who boast a balanced team led by Rollie Sumwalt, David Russell, Dave
Griffiths, John Falconi, Bill Colvin, and Randy Parker. The KAs (2-0) have Steve Williams, one-time all-IMAC, Dave Ingold, Charlie Terrell,
and Ken Timmons, whose hit beat the SPEs in the final inning, 5-4. There are three teams tied for third
place with records of 2-1. The Hurting Herd boast many good fielders, two of whom are Bob Benton and Rusty
Winchester. Staten Island Ferries, whose only loss was to F&M, 11-7,are led by Greg Durr, Larry Horowitz, Randy Wagner, and
Phil Dotts. The defending champion Pikas, who gave the Hurting Herd their only loss, 3-2 in extra innings, lost to
F&M, 14-9. They are led by the powerful Pecorak brothers, Tom Vandi- ver, Allen Woodward, Peter Spink, and Leo Valiante.
Hard-hitting Gary Scibal and Mike O’Malley complement the fine pitching of Russ Merritt for Anathema (1-1). The SPE’s (0-2) best
players are John Simms, Phil Leonard, and Buzz Tarver. The best of the SAE’s (0-2) are Elda Basham, Roy Campbell,
Peyton Prospere, and Bruce Baird. Pax #1 (0-2) is led by versatile Mike Reed, Steve Earp, and Frank Corriher. The
fourth winless team, Watts I (0-2), have Bill Morris and Buzz Buckingham as their main men.

After almost two rounds, eleven teams are still undefeated in IMAC tennis. In League A, the SPE’s (formerly Mohr’s) and
the Faculty are 2-0, while Watts II and KA have won their only matches. Gordon’s is the only team in
League B with a 2-0 record, while Sentelle IV, F&M, and Emanon I have a 1-0 slate. In League C
with 2-0 records are Pax I, SAE’s, and the ATO’s. The other teams have lost at least one game each.

The Davidsonian, April 14, 1972 Page Nine

Sailors Seek Title, Trip To Nationals In SAISA Meet
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

The surprising Davidson sailing team has a chance to do something which the basketball team couldn’t—compete in the national championships
in California. The skippers placed themselves in a favorable position by cruising to a second place finish last Saturday in
the Duke Invitational Regatta. Co-captain Allen Lundy explained that the skippers now stand an excellent chance of winning the South
Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association championships next weekend at Lake Norman.

“The association sends its winner to San Diego to compete in the nationals, and we're very encouraged about our chances,”
stated Lundy. The performance by the squad in last Saturday’s meet gives Lundy a basis for his optimism. “We had
to contend with strong winds and rough water, but we were able to do well. It was our best effort
so far,” he noted.

Lundy and his crewman John McElveen won their division by garnering a first and two second place finishes, while commodore
Jimmy Hunter and crewman Frank Somerville registered a second, a fifth, and a seventh in their division. Hunter and Somerville
placed far behind Regatta champion The Citadel in their division, but Lundy’s victory gave the team enough total points for
second place overall.

The team will be practicing every day in preparation for the Association championships, and the two skippers have not yet
been determined. Lundy explained that the pilots who perform the best during the practice sessions will compete in the championships,
and they will be allowed to choose their own crewmen. The practices are supervised as often as possible by Associate
Professor of French Hallam Walker. “He is an excellent sailor in his own right, and his advice is valuable to
us,” said Lundy.

Lundy anticipates the stiffest competition in the quest for the San Diego trip to come from Tennessee, The Citadel, and
Clemson.

FABULOUS DINING
International Cuisine
OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

PIZZA GUS’S ORIGINAL FORTY-NINER
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

“After Church” Sunday Buffet
All You Can Eat
12 Noon - 2 p.m.
Beef - Chicken
Salads
Desserts
Beverages
Price $1.95
Student Union Dining Room

The next move is up to you! Where would you rather live after graduation? Phoenix? Dallas? Los Angeles? Boston? Minneapolis?
Denver? Or Miami? NML has an internship program for juniors and seniors that will get you ready for a rewarding
career job in the place you've always wanted to be. It’s your move. Give your future a place to go!
Call Jim Roy or Rob Stone, District Agent 892-1424 for all the details.
