Vol. LXII, No. One

The College Completes Fiscal Year With $800 Surplus

By ALEC HOON
Managing Editor

Davidson College finished the 1971-72 fiscal year in the black, with income exceeding expenditure by $758.53, according to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell stated that such a surplus was maintained despite earlier predictions of a possible deficit from $80,000 to $100,000, due to the efforts of several groups.

“I would like to compliment the faculty and all those involved with annual giving for their efforts in making the 1971-72 budget effort a success. If the faculty had not made cutbacks in their department spending, and if the Annual Fund people had not done such a good job, we might well have ended with an operating deficit,” Cornell said.

The 1971-72 annual fund drive netted an all-time high of $275,350, an increase of 45 percent over the previous year’s collection. In addition, the Wildcat Club for athletics collected $129,872 to make the total annual giving sum $405,422 as compared to $286,430 in 1970-71.

The budget for the 1972-73 fiscal year, running from July 1, 1972 to June 30, 1973, was announced earlier this summer by Cornell. The 1972-73 operating budget has been increased by only 2.85 percent to $5,894,614. Actual reductions were made in the areas of operation and maintenance of the physical plant, general administration, and modest cuts in athletics and physical education, and student services. However, at the same time, certain other priorities were met, including the bolstering and improving of the college security force, a modest increase in the library’s operating budget, obtaining more student counseling and increasing staff benefits, and an additional seven percent for student aid.

Spencer praised the budget effort saying, “Davidson is very fortunate to have broken even when financial problems continue for all independent colleges. It is hard to overemphasize the importance of the Duke Endowment’s support over the years. Another important factor was the recent reorganization of development and finance functions under the office of Vice-President Cornell which permitted simultaneous control over both expenditures and fund raising,” Spencer said.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students | Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
September 22, 1972

(Staff Photo by Peterson)

WORKING FOR A MORE SECURE DAVIDSON
Terry Springs will be one of two policemen patrolling the campus this year.

New Security Implemented

By BOB HOWELL
Asst. Managing Editor

Additional police patrols and extra lighting facilities should provide a substantial improvement in campus security this year, according to Director of Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze. In a contractual agreement with the town, the college is paying half the part-time salaries of Davidson's four policemen, thereby securing two men and a patrol car to cover the campus, Meetze said. “One man is on duty from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m., and the other works from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m.,” he explained, “so there will be extra protection during the worst hours.” In addition, one of the three campus security officers employed last year will remain to patrol the grounds from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m.

Spencer to Speak

By BRUCE MALOY
Asst. Managing Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. will deliver his annual overview or “state of the college” address on Monday, Sept. 25. The speech will be delivered outdoors on Patterson Court after supper. Present plans call for dessert to be served.

“I want to let the students know where we stand in areas such as the new library, funding programs, new housing proposals, security, changes in the educational program and the new social system. New housing is of particular interest due to the expansion of the student body. We have several plans which will be considered before recommendations are made to the trustees.”

Spencer characterized the speech as an informal report to students. “Since we no longer get together as a community at chapel, we have to make the opportunity to meet.”Increased coverage with no increase in cost,” Meetze noted. He added that patrolmen will be unable to enter any dormitory unless summoned by a student. “The system should be more efficient than it’s been,” he said. “The man on foot with a walkie-talkie will be in contact with the patrolman in the car and the town and county police. The new security emergency telephone number, 892-5131, is the number of the Davidson Police Department.”

To supplement improved police protection, the college has installed new light fixtures and increased lighting around Grey House, the dormitories, and in front of Chambers Building. “We've set up only temporary poles so far,” Meetze explained, “because we're experimenting with different standards and are anxious that the total system be compatible.” He noted the entire system was approved by the SGA Senate last April and emphasized that the Senate’s Campus Security Committee will continue working to improve it, soliciting as much student and faculty opinion as possible.

“Light standards are so expensive we want to make sure we pick the right one, satisfactory to everybody,” he pointed out, adding that any complaints or suggestions about the new security system should be brought to him or the Campus Security Committee. It is expected that students, through the Senate, will aid in policing the campus, eventually assuming completely the responsibility of regulating student parking, Meetze said.

“Security will be much more available when needed,” said Dean of Students Will H. Terry, “although there will be some rough edges to straighten out. The need for student participation in implementing the new security system was stressed by Junior Senator Mitch Purvis, a member of the Campus Security Committee. “I can’t overemphasize how important student feedback is for working with this program,” he said, “both the lighting and the police patrol.”

He expects some problems, possibly in the area of student assistance with parking. “People have always griped when they got a parking ticket,” he said. “What will they think when it's another student giving them the ticket? It’s not their purpose to harass any student merely for the sake of harassment.”

“It’s notable that the Senate went over this program in the first place and that students will continue to be involved in perfecting it,” Terry emphasized. “We don’t know whether the security system will work,” Terry concluded, “but we believe it can, and it's certainly worth a try.”

Davidsonian Rates All-American

Associated Collegiate Press, a national association of college newspapers, has rated THE DAVIDSONIAN as one of the best college newspapers in the country. THE DAVIDSONIAN, under the editorship of Rich Wilson, received an All-American rating, the highest rating a paper can receive in the competition. The judges awarded marks of distinction to the paper in such areas as coverage and content, writing and editing, editorial leadership, and physical appearance.

“Congratulations on a professionally produced paper which must be a meaningful contribution to the communication systems in your community,” said the judges of the press association. “You've done a beautiful job.”

Since the ratings are based on a point evaluation system, THE DAVIDSONIAN needed a score of 3,200 points to qualify for an All-American rating. In past years the paper has received an average score of 3400-3500 points. But under Wilson's editorship, THE DAVIDSONIAN achieved an even higher score.

“To be judged by professionals as ‘the best’ in college journalism is certainly a great honor for the paper, especially since we have no journalism courses here,” Wilson said. “The staff is a very hard-working one, and it is they who deserve the credit. I hope we can continue to publish as professional a newspaper as possible,” Wilson said.