Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR APRIL 14, 1972

Attracting 100 Coeds

Davidson moved one step closer to coeducation this week with faculty approval of the Educational Policy Committee’s report on coeducation.
While most expected the faculty to act affirmatively on the issue, many were surprised by the overwhelming support for coeducation
reflected by the vote Tuesday. That almost two-thirds of the faculty voted in favor of the plan demonstrates that body’s
willingness to work toward the coeducational goal. And this ratio might have been even higher had more of the faculty
been present for the vote.

The faculty deliberated on the issue for over 90 minutes, during which time many raised questions central to the implementation
of coeducation, especially in the areas of finance and housing. Such a rigorous discussion is helpful in spotting possible pitfalls
which lie ahead. The faculty has acted with caution yet with needed dispatch. We commend them for their concern and
interest in furthering the movement to coeducation.

The proposal will now be sent to the Trustee Executive Committee which will review the plan, and then lay the
matter before the entire board at its May 5 meeting. If the board does indeed approve the proposed plan for
coeducation in May, the real struggle to transform this theoretical model into actuality will then commence. The college will begin
the campaign to attract up to 100 females for the fall of '72.

Davidson students can be especially helpful in this effort. Now is the time for students to write any girl they
feel might be interested in transferring to Davidson next fall. Since students probably know more girls in this category than
any of the other constituencies of the college, it is important that they assume the lead in attracting girls here
next fall. If we are to inaugurate our coeducation experiment on a significant level next year, it is important that
students, who led the fight for coeducation, now bear the responsibility for helping to implement it.

End Of Registration Circus

No longer will lines of catalogue-clutching students besiege first floor Chambers. No longer will department chairmen shuffle and deal computer
cards on the demand of screaming hordes. And no longer will Richard C. Burts risk death by trampling every time
he opens the doors to the mob of spirited intellectuals eager to experience the challenge of three more courses. In
short, the traditional circus known as registration is finally being eliminated in favor of a system which will save time
and distribute courses on a more equitable basis.

Under the new plan each student will name his preferences for the courses he would like to take the next
term. These preferences are then fed into the computer which randomly distributes one course to each senior according to the
listed order of preferences. Juniors, sophomores and freshmen follow. The computer then goes back and gives the seniors their second
choice; juniors, sophomores and freshmen receive their second choice and so on.

The most obvious advantage of this system is that it eliminates the long lines and amount of time consumed by
faculty and administration. It also does away with the unfortunate situation where some students try to pressure certain department chairmen
to break the ceilings on a course. Many upperclassmen may argue that they need certain courses to graduate; consequently they
should have first priority on all their courses before underclassmen. Past experience has shown, however, that seniors often battle for
easy courses with which they hope to pad their grade point, rather than courses which they really need for their
major or area requirements.

Another advantage to this system is that it provides an even distribution of courses. Freshmen will now have a wider
selection of classes from which to select so that they will not get pushed into certain courses simply because these
were the only ones left. Certainly individual cases will arise where an upperclassman truly needs a certain course for graduation.
In such cases the Registrar has promised that a procedure will be established whereby a student can present his case,
if it appears that a certain course is vital to his education the ceiling on the course will be broken.

We commend and encourage the Registrar in this new experiment, and we hope students and faculty will cooperate in the
test run of this system in the next few weeks. But we also hope that this system will remain flexible
enough to meet the needs of all the students here, since that is the primary purpose of any system of
registration.

GRAY WILSON

Delicacies This Spring Paralyze Will To Study

Of the 800,000 poets (rough estimate) who have written on every subject imaginable, there are 800,001 poems about spring since
every one of them came up with at least one ode about this season while for a fact Robert Herrick
wrote two. Yet no one ever wrote a poem about spring at Davidson, so I have decided not to waste
my time doing it either, but instead to relate my own impressions on the subject in pollinated prose.

Spring at Davidson is a mockery of academic sterility, a pastoral honors college burgeoning with the 800,000 species of insects
you hear about in a lecture on invertebrate phyla. The first two terms of the year are finally redeemed by
an idle green lawn and copper sun that beg your body to lie down on a beach towel and soak
up rays, or better yet, go to the beach. Spring is one less course to hassle with, one more hour
of rack, one more outdoor activity without a grade attached to it. Spring is dying for a beer out at
the lake campus, or quaffing an orangeade at Marvy’s. It is a time for walking barefoot to the post office,
watching the mica in the sidewalk gleaming up at every step. Spring is running to an afternoon lab in a
rain that makes the ground sweat.with steam. It is walking to a 9 o’clock class in gym shorts and a
t-shirt pecked full of holes by birds screaming overhead. Spring is a game of pong on the patios down at
Patterson Court, with other people waiting for the winner. It is a flooded cross-country track, a wade in the creek,
or a trip to the creek au naturel under the supervision of 20 fraternal friends. In spring a Davidson man’s
thoughts turn to summer and freedom unless it means making up an F or a trip to Fort Bragg. The
shelves of people and popcorn that howled in Johnston Gym for frost-bitten weeks while it refused to snow for skiers—they
are all gone now. The handball courts are free after 7 p.m., and Eddie and Isabel play tennis with phosphorescent
balls for an hour after supper.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

ROTC Debate Continues, Turner Endorses Bowles

To the Editor:

Apparently several points in my recent letter defending the ROTC program have been misconstrued. Mark Guyer's letter reveals the need
for caveats. Mark states that those students in ROTC are not, for the most part, voluntarily enrolled. If not, they
seem to have been “forced” to enroll to avoid the draft. These students will not necessarily avoid the draft; indeed,
their obligation after finishing the program will be as long as if they had been drafted. And, pragmatically speaking, it
makes more sense to be drafted if one wishes to have as little military service as possible. I am sure
that most students enrolled in ROTC are aware of this; they must make a choice voluntarily. Even if they enroll
in ROTC and then drop out, they retain the same draft number and status. And there is reason to believe
that a stand-by draft call-up will remain in effect when the all-volunteer army is instituted.

I am not sure how the ROTC leadership program “tends to overlook the human element in war.” I am not
even certain there is a human element in war. Total war is a devastating, all-out effort to destroy the enemy
before he can destroy you. Soldiers know that they are “pawns of war,” that their efforts will decide the outcome
of the war, that their leaders are trying to find the quickest and most effective means to achieve the destruction
of the enemy forces. The generals know that the soldiers are fighting to protect the freedoms of their loved ones;
the soldiers are also aware of this. Total war engulfs everyone. Men desire a good life on this world. They
form governments to develop their potential, and they fight to defend this right. To fight a war for such a
reason does not mean that one isn’t meek in heart. Soldiers fight in wars to protect their human rights, to
live in freedom. Soldiers fight to defend their “life, liberty and pursuit of happiness.” War is a race against time,
where every lost second gives the enemy the time to “violate” someone’s life, liberty and pursuit of happiness. I still
don't see why there are men in prisons “because their religion and pursuit of happiness are violated by the murder
of innocent men, women and children...” I don’t even think it’s likely.

Jerry Huller ‘75
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I don’t know whether students at Davidson are interested in the Democratic gubernatorial race in North Carolina, but they should
be. This year for the first time in many years North Carolina has the opportunity to elect a leader. Skipper
Bowles is that man. I have had a chance to work with him for a number of months. Skipper combines
experience and ability with honesty and sincerity. He is articulate; he has great perception as to the problems and needs
of North Carolina at the present time; and he has the vision to see the problems of the future that
we must start preparing for today.

Skipper has another quality that is admirable. He believes in taking a stand on the issues. He has said many
times that the day of the old-style, back-slapping politician is over. He feels that young people have brought to society
an appreciation of candor in politicians. He has taken a number of stands on issues that will lose him votes
in May—issues that he could have skirted. And whether or not you agree with his stands, you can respect him
for making them, and you can know that he really believes what he says.

Bo Phillips has literature delineating Mr. Bowles’ positions and the newspapers and television carry his news releases and advertisements. If
you will take the time to find out about the man I think you will find that Skipper Bowles is
someone North Carolina students can get excited about. I am convinced he can help us go a long way toward
handling today’s problems and preparing for tomorrow’s. I believe in him as a person, and I think you can too.

Jody Turner ‘72
Raleigh, N.C.
