JYA Returnees Facing Problems

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

“About two weeks ago I was ready to say forget it and just leave school.” This was one student's reaction to college life after returning from Davidson's Junior Year Abroad program. Having to readjust to Davidson's social and academic life poses a problem to almost all of the Junior Year Abroad participants. Paul Fisher, coordinator of the Junior Year Abroad program, is familiar with the problem. On returning to Davidson, the students are often more sophisticated than when they left and feel shut out of the college, he explained. “There is more academic freedom abroad than at Davidson. There is a much looser kind of situation there,” he said. The courses abroad tend to be...

ATOP THE ACROPOLIS
Davidson students admire the ruins of ancient Athens.

German Replaces JYA Advisor

By HUGH MOORE
Staff Writer

The Junior Year Abroad program (JYA) in Marburg, Germany is using a resident German as advisor, Jurgen E. Schlunk, instead of a faculty member, for the first time this year. Not only is this cheaper than moving a member of the faculty and his family, but it also provides the students with an advisor better oriented to German life. John M. Bevan, Vice President for Academic Affairs, said, “Reports on Schlunk are excellent.” Bevan added, “We hope to keep him for at least another year.”

Students Take Honors

Davidson's 14 students participating in the Junior Year Abroad Program in Marburg achieved the highest scores of any American program at the University in the German Language Entrance Exams. All foreign students entering the Philipps University in Marburg, Germany are required to pass the exam before they are permitted to matriculate as regular students. To a possible score of 180, Ellen Spencer achieved a total of 178; Robert “Hutch” Brown scored 177; and Margarita Goldberg scored...

“The advisor is all things to all men,” Thomas O. Pinkerton, Professor of German and former advisor, said. He acts as a liaison between the college and the students, while he performs both academic and administrative duties. Any emergency also falls into his hands. The JYA advisor in Montpellier, France, has similar duties. However, the post is still held by a faculty member this year, Professor of French, Joe Embry. If Schlunk continues to do well in Germany, Bevan said, a resident advisor might also be established in France. The decision would be made by the Foreign Studies Committee, he indicated.

Exam Honors

Paul C. Fisher, Director of Overseas Studies, noted that special credit was due to Juergen Schlunk, the 1972-75 Resident Advisor in Marburg, for his role in organizing and directing the Intensive German Language Program, which exposed the students to seven weeks of rigorous training in advanced grammar, composition, and conversation. “We are intensely proud of our students and are confident that they will continue to meet the challenges of study in Germany with success,” said Paul Fisher.

The initial trip abroad is a novelty for the faculty members, Bevan said, “but I don't know that I'd be enthusiastic from one time to the next.” Faculty members in the French and German departments serve on a rotating basis. Professor of French, Francis Ghigo, who has acted twice as advisor in Montpellier, said it is particularly difficult for advisors to move their children to France and help them adjust to the new culture. Advisors’ academic duties in both France and Germany include teaching courses which help the students become oriented to the two cultures. The course for France is taught at Davidson before the students go abroad, but the course in German culture is taught after the students arrive in Marburg. Advisors in Montpellier also teach courses in French.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Literature each term. Students usually take at least the literature course offered the first term since this helps them make the transition between the American and German school systems; most of the study is based at the University of Montpellier and, of course, students. The Davidsonian, November 3, 1972, Page Seven, more specific and less of the survey type. Although students can receive help from advanced graduate students, they are cut off from the professors who simply give class lectures. Therefore, a person must do a good deal of study on his own. Fisher said that the college conducted a survey last year among the students who had been abroad for the year. The survey indicated that each student had different readjustment problems, and there was no specific thing the college could do to help ease the cultural shock. Each student must cope with the problem himself, Fisher said. Students on the foreign study program adapt to a different kind of learning process than the one at Davidson. Ronald Altman, who studied in Germany last year, said that students worry about a quality education abroad in contrast to one based on quantity here. His opinion of the most important aspects of his year in Germany reflects this feeling. First and most important was personal independent study. Secondly, traveling was valuable. Altman said that often classes were only held once a week, so this left a good deal of time to see other places. Seeing the different lifestyles and cultures helped one to keep an open mind. He commented that a great many people abuse the Junior Year Abroad program and simply tour Europe for a year. Students must totally readjust when they return to Faculty Marburg University. Credit for each course is awarded by the individual departments at Davidson, but the departments can give the advisors the authority to make the decision. Advisors, however, may not always be qualified to evaluate a student's work, particularly if it is in a subject with which the advisor is not familiar. Pinkerton pointed out. The department is better able to determine progress in most cases, he said. Many Problems Davidson. They have to start worrying about reviews, daily reading assignments, and keeping on the good side of professors. It is hard to get used to the idea that one has to conform to certain standards again, Altman said. The foreign study students also face the dilemma of becoming part of the college, socially. One is pretty lonely until he gets to know old friends again, said one student returning from a year abroad. Some wonder why the year abroad is not changed to the sophomore year. Altman feels that this would be a mistake, for the sophomore year is a time to form and deepen friendships. “It is important to establish yourself here," he said. One of the main complaints about the Junior Year Abroad program is that the different department chairmen are not detailed enough in their requirement specifications. This makes it hard on the students when they return, for they are evaluated by the professors at Davidson, not the ones who instructed them. Fisher feels that the students are mostly to blame in this area, however. He said that if a student keeps in touch and writes back through the proper channels, he will get specific instructions. Many foreign study students experience cultural shock when they return to Davidson. How they readjust may be an indication of the value of the college's teaching method. One student sums up his life at Davidson after being abroad by saying, "I gotta take it day to day." Advisor always be qualified to evaluate a student's work, particularly if it is in a subject with which the advisor is not familiar. Pinkerton pointed out. The department is better able to determine progress in most cases, he said. RIDE 'EM COWBOY Clay Gatewood had a bumpy ride in southern France.

---