SS SS Everything You’ve Ever Wanted In A «We COLTER He x x + ‘ And More!! COEDUCATION well we have this plan, you see... FINANCIAL AID at least for your first two years FLEXIBLE CURRICULUM redbirds in the Blue Sky ACADEMIC EXCELLENCE ask any graduate school (offer void outside the South) MODERN LIBRARY (or is it a union?) FUN is where you find it. For more information contact the Presbyterian liberal arts college for men nearest you.

Xerox Company To Present American History Survey

A probing, sensitive and sometimes amusing look at the United States, from the first Indian settlements to the present, will be brought to American television audiences by Xerox Corporation this year in a series of 13 hour-long programs. Created, written and narrated by Alistair Cooke, who has been interpreting this country to his native England for more than a quarter of a century, the series is entitled “America: A Personal View.” It is tentatively scheduled to begin next September over a network of commercial stations and at a time to be announced. The series is a co-production of the British Broadcasting Corporation and Time-Life Films. It is being produced by virtually the same BBC team, including executive producer Michael Gill, which filmed Lord Clark's highly-acclaimed “Civilization” series.

“Mindful of the approaching 200th anniversary of this nation's founding,” said David J. Curtin, Xerox vice president, “nothing could be more appropriate than this magnificent television series by Alistair Cooke and the BBC. Gifted with rare insight, Mr. Cooke cuts through the lesser moments to get to the heart of the American story; a millennium of human experience and world-shaking events crowded into eight or ten generations. We lament its failings daily, but how often do we stand tall and sniff the greatness that is America? It whispers through this series like a welcome breeze, made all the sweeter because the films were produced not here, but in a foreign land, free from any sense of obligation to the United States.”

Cooke, perhaps best known to American viewers as host of the award-winning “Omnibus” series, describes himself as an Englishman who arrived in this country in 1932 and promptly “fell in love with its landscape and with journalism.” He has been translating the personalities, attitudes and foibles of the United States to British readers since 1945 as chief correspondent of the Guardian of England (formerly the Manchester Guardian). For almost 25 years he has also been talking about America to BBC audiences around the world in a weekly 15-minute radio report.

“I've been appalled for the past several years at the immense ignorance among many Americans, particularly the young, about American history,” Cooke says. “Very often they attack what they know nothing about. Perhaps the time has come to show them the best, as well as the worst, of their American heritage. I shall try to present in the ‘America’ series my personal account of what is most exciting and most significant.”

To prepare and film “America: A Personal View,” Cooke has been criss-crossing the United States for almost three years with the BBC production crew. They have visited sites from Concord, Mass., and Williamsburg, Va., to the Sierra Nevada foothills and San Francisco. As he wanders through these places, Cooke describes the people and events that shaped this country, from Christopher Columbus and his first sighting of San Salvador, to the New Left and the revolt of modern-day students against the so-called Establishment.

“I hope this series will help humanize some of America's heroes and villains, and bring history alive,” he says.

The Davidsonian January 14, 1972 Page Five

LETTERS

College Defended; Students Attacked

To The Editor:

“The positions which have been won by acclamation are: ...” This list covers seven of 19 SGA offices for Tuesday’s election for which only one candidate expressed an interest. In addition, no one at all registered for the positions of Review Board or Off-campus senator. Out of over 1000 students at Davidson only 33 registered for the campus elections and for just over half the offices is there even an election. Last year only two offices were filled by acclamation and one of 19 had no registrants. Although it appears to be typical of Davidson recently, this lack of action surely does not represent a lack of issues. To read THE DAVIDSONIAN, the Wailing Wall, or listen in on practically any conversation, someone is lambasting someone about something. The presidential candidates have pretty well summed up the issues and given a campaign's non-committal response for themselves. The big issue will be: does the rest of the student body care? Repeatedly campus leaders have announced demonstrations for or against various subjects only to have no one show up. Coeducation is a major issue and I recently heard Reggie Kennedy asking people what they had done recently to further coeducation. The response usually was that they couldn’t get to the meeting or what could just they do? Unfortunately, this is what too many people think about the running of this school — What could just they do? Seven people that I didn't vote for will fill elective offices next year because no one else cared or thought.They could be effective. With that opinion, they surely will not be effective. We must prove that we want to run this system.

Disillusions Freshmen

Preliminary evaluation of a senate subcommittee questionnaire indicates that the freshman class finds the new social system confusing and unwelcoming... and that Davidson is not coeducational. Freshman class senator Bill Smith released the results of the questionnaire, prepared and distributed before Christmas. Smith is chairman of the senate subcommittee preparing a report on the situation on Patterson Court.

The heaviest positive response to the poll came on the issue of physical arrangements. Over 75% of those responding indicated that they favored the idea of eating at a house for a solid week as opposed to the previous policy which provided for two meals a week. The freshmen voiced a three-to-one opinion that they themselves were making a good effort at harmonizing with the system. Evaluation of the houses was not as generous. Slightly less than half of those returning questionnaires felt that the members of the court were making them feel at home. Just over a quarter had unfavorable reactions. The missing 25% had mixed reactions, citing the differences between individual houses.

Thirty-eight percent indicated that they would self-select a house, while 29% will not. Many were still undecided, stating that they had not yet determined the specific advantages of the eating clubs as opposed to the college union. The heaviest negative response came over the issue of the social system in general. Thirty-seven percent answered that they were happy with the existing system while 45% voted no. Smith said, "It appeared that the majority of those displeased with the system liked the eating club arrangement — the mechanical setup — but there was a definite lack of social activity for freshmen. There was a prolific write-in vote for coeducation. The implementation of coeducation appears to be the only significant step toward improving the social system for many freshmen."

In addition to the familiar theme of coeducation, freshmen also charged a general lack of adequate social activities. On the positive side of the ledger, the responses were more diverse. Many pointed to the lack of social pressure, the self-selection procedure, and the possibility of a wide circulation among various houses. Among the statistically less frequent responses was that “this way we can get Will Terry to come and speak on our hall.” Another said that he hadn’t gone out on his girlfriend. Monasteries are like that.

Smith indicated that the status of the report and his com- place before we will.

Bill Barnes ‘74
Davidson College

To The Editor:

Despite all the evil characteristics Davidson is accused of possessing, the school still manages to uphold its reputation as a progressive liberal arts school. It took the class of ’74 some two terms to figure out that the slightest of our ills could be, in some way or another, attributed to this most accursed school. The class of '75 has made great advances, succeeding in doing the same thing in less than two months, and even this is not as impressive as some of the foreign students’ accomplishments, who have not only determined the nature of the school’s depravity, but have done likewise with the entire American culture within the same time period.

However admirable I find such decisiveness when working within so little time, I cannot believe that the freshmen have been totally corrupted within two months. If they are so affected by the absence of girls within a two-month period, (even though I've never noticed an absence, especially living around frustrated football players on weekends), I would suggest that they have some serious Freudian sexual hang-up, and now that the freshmen are outside of the company of their mothers, they seek replacements in the guise of matronly Queens girls, an action doomed to failure. Of course, I doubt that the class of ‘75 is infested with people with Freudian hang-ups, but instead are numbered by people who are not very honest with themselves and seek any excuse whatsoever to disguise a failure on their part to adjust to the environment.

Admittedly, an all-male environment is not the optimum, but that it takes otherwise normal boys and converts them into utterly destitute individuals craving sex-objects is simply nonsense, especially when the conversion is to have happened in the space of two months. I don’t know anyone here who presently drools at Playboys and “skinflicks” who in their high school days placed the feminine creature on a pedestal totally free from the “corruption of earthly desires.” A person who regards girls as sex-objects now certainly did before they came here, and the absence of girls only accentuated these feelings. The point is that we just are not willing to assume full responsibility for our actions if we seek to accuse the school or our classmates for producing our deficiencies.

Before a freshman transfers, I hope he takes into consideration the vulnerability of the other school, so that it may provide him with a scapegoat for future ailments.

Andrew Bailey ‘74
Davidson College