Page Eight March 31, 1972

(Staff photo by Barnes)

BASEBALL BALLET
Dwight Plemmons runs out a base hit.

Cats Host Dogs In Twin Bill
By JIM RICHARDSON
Staff Writer

The Wildcat baseball team met Oberlin Tuesday in a twin bill after Monday's encounter was postponed. The team swept the
two games by scores of 7-4 and 6-3, giving them a record of four wins and three losses. In the
games, George Weicker was the top batsman for the ‘Cats, with four RBIs in the first game and one in
the second. Mark Rodgman drove in two runs in the first game. Ross Manire won the first game, bringing his
record to 1-1, while Dwight Plemmons stretched his tab to 2-0 by picking up the second. For Oberlin, Zacero lost
the first game and Moriarty dropped the second. Coach Tom Stevens commented that “we didn’t play very well, but we
played well enough to win.” He believed that the team's layoff hurt their play, “while we at least played.” After
earlier contests were called off Friday and Saturday, he thought the players could have been a little rusty. Wednesday's game
with Johns Hopkins was rained out. There was a double header yesterday afternoon. Stevens did not discuss the Johns Hopkins
games, but instead looked ahead to the upcoming games with The Citadel tomorrow, also a double-header. He said it would
be the Wildcat’s first conference game, but was not too sure of their opponent's strength. He had not heard any
of their statistics, but from their scores, The Citadel appeared to be “having a good season.”

Players Talk About Drug Usage
By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

In a major policy change involving player-coach relationships, a meeting between Head Football Coach Dave Fagg and several of his
players who smoked marijuana was indicated by some members of the team. When asked if such a meeting had taken
place, Fagg had “no comment.” He did say, however, that he had talked to a number of his players about
their personal lives and some of their problems throughout the year. “I would appreciate knowing more about my players than
just on the football field,” Fagg said. Nonetheless, Fagg has a growing concern about such problems as drugs affecting members
of the team, and wishes to learn a great deal more than what he already knows. “I’ve read the national
statistics and know what age groups marijuana concerns,” he continued. “To me, it is a serious thing: it isn’t good
for you, if anything it’s illegal, and I would not like to see young men getting involved in it.” In
regard to his squad members, Fagg says “We (coaching staff) appreciate the fact that these football players trust us enough
to give us the privilege of sharing their lives.” Some of the team members themselves felt that this kind of
honest and open talk was extremely helpful to the whole squad, and that more coaches should adopt this type of
attitude in regard to the players of their respective sports.

Weaver Turns Coach, Helps Young Netters
By HOWARD BOYD
Asst. Sports Editor

Last year David Weaver played in the number two position for a strong, well-balanced Davidson tennis team, which went 19-5
and swept the Southern Conference championship. This year Weaver has moved up to the number one spot, but the team
is vastly inexperienced, having been devastated by graduation and transfers, and has lost four straight matches to open the season.
Weaver entered Davidson with the strongest first-year group in school history. It included Bobby Koury, Jeff Dumansky, and Hi Lankenau,
numbers one, three, and six in 1971, respectively. “The major adjustment I had to make coming out of high school
was that I came in with so many good tennis players,” Weaver noted earlier this week. “Anybody on the team
could play number one.”Repair Davidson, N. C. Phone 892-2111

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Cosmetics—Russell Stover Candies
Complete Prescription Service—Sundries
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.—Wed 9 to 12—
Davidson, N. C. Toiletries
Sun. 9:30 to 10:30
131 N. Main St.

"That wasn’t true in high school.” All three of his classmates have now departed, along with the graduated Jim Cantrell
and Jeff Chetwood, leaving only Weaver from last year’s top six. This has meant a big change for the junior
pre-med major from Roanoke, Virginia, besides just the obvious improvement in the caliber of his opposition. He is now the
team’s featured performer, which has brought added pressure, and as the most experienced member of the squad, he has assumed
much more responsibility this year.

Weaver denied that he felt an exceptional amount of pressure, but he did confess that he’s had some trouble adjusting
to the top position. “I have to get geared for a match if I’m going to be pressed. I've been
losing my concentration a lot this year, and playing number one may have something to do with it,” he said.

Since he is the most experienced member of the team (only he and sophomore Bill Allen saw varsity action last
year), Weaver has taken over the leadership position and serves as a steadying influence for the young team. “Both Allen
and myself have been working with the younger guys,” Weaver commented. “We can't do much about their stroke, but we
can help in strategy and improve their doubles play.”

Teaching others is nothing new for Weaver. “Since I was sixteen I've enjoyed teaching as much if not more than
playing. I don't play much competitive tennis in the summer, just teach mostly.” Weaver has worked the past two summers
at Coach Harry Fogleman’s tennis camp, and Fogleman emphasizes the value of his teaching ability. “David is a real fine
teacher, and he knows the game well. I have him play with each of the younger boys, to help them
overcome foolish errors. This has given me a great deal of help,” Fogleman stated.

Commenting on the team’s performance thus far, Weaver said, “There is definitely more potential than we've shown. We can play
better and should start winning some matches.” He also pointed to the fact that “There is a difference in the
caliber of teams we've played. These northern teams have not been as ragged and rusty as I expected them to
be. Their timing has been very good."

Asked about his own game, Weaver responded, “I’m playing better than last year actually. I've always been a late starter.
It takes me a long time before I can concentrate on where to hit the next shot rather than just
on how I'm holding the racket and getting it back. I'm not strong enough to play the serve-and-volley game, and
I don’t have a strong enough serve to go to the net constantly. I like to change pace, mix my
serves, use more different kinds of shots to keep my opponent off-balance."

Following Tuesday's win over MIT, the ‘Cats seek to defeat William and Mary here today. The Indians will bring a
vastly improved squad into the match, which will be the netters’ encounter. W & M has just started subsidizing, and
have everyone back from last year’s team, plus freshman Ford Robinett, one of Florida’s top-ranked young players. Ironically, Robinett was
interested in coming to Davidson, before he learned that the Davidson program is non-subsidized.

Spaghetti — La Roma Ristoranti in Charlotte
BEST PIZZA OF ITALY — ICE STEAK
Roma Ristoranti
Charlotte, N. C. Phone 376-2576
1540 West Blvd. at Remount Rd.

DEAL'S RESTAURANT AND GRILL
663-4141
4 Miles North of Davidson
Steaks — Seafood — Plate Lunches
Sandwiches
6 a.m. ’til Midnight
Closed Monday

OPEN 9-8
The Hub
MONDAY - SATURDAY
