Page Six 0 April 7, 1972

She Davidsonian

Part III: Proposals For Coeducation

On the basis of our study of coeducation and of the conditions under which it could best be achieved, we recommend the following plan for coeducation at Davidson College. Subsections 1-8 constitute a suggested schedule for the admission of additional women students at Davidson.

1. In order to inaugurate coeducation at Davidson on a significant scale at the earliest opportunity, admit up to 100 women transfer students for the autumn of 1972. Maintain an enrollment of 1000 men.

2. Begin the full implementation of coeducation with the admission of freshmen women students for the autumn of 1973. Admit up to 40 freshmen women students for the autumn of 1973, plus up to 10 additional upperclass women transfer students.

3. For the autumn of 1974, admit up to 75 freshmen women students, plus up to 35 additional upperclass women transfer students.

4. For the autumn of 1975, admit up to 75 freshmen women students, plus up to 25 additional upperclass women transfer students.

5. For the autumn of 1976, admit up to 75 freshmen women students. By the year 1976, the numbers of women students in each of the four classes would be approximately equal. Women students would, by this time, normally be admitted to the college as freshmen, just as the men are. Upperclass women transfer students would, however, be admitted in whatever numbers were required to keep the number of women in each class up to the projected numerical level. The total number of women students on campus by 1976 would be 300, and the total enrollment, 1,300.

6. Appoint additional members of the faculty at the rate of approximately two a year, beginning in 1973. This expansion in the faculty should be used as an opportunity for increasing significantly the number of women faculty members.

Investigation (Continued from page 5)

There was broad agreement that the most desirable way to become coeducational was Plan 4, calling for an increased enrollment by admitting from three to five hundred women students, while keeping the number of men students at approximately the present level. This was the preference of the largest number of respondents in each group.

A good deal of concern was indicated on the part of faculty and alumni that the student-faculty ratio, the endowment per student, and the educational and general expenditure per student not be affected adversely by coeducation. At the same time, there was a significant proportion of each group apparently willing to contribute towards the capital expenses which would be involved in becoming coeducational: 33.3% of the faculty, 47.4% of the administrative staff, 55.8% of the students, and 43.8% of the alumni.

As to when Davidson should become coeducational, only a minority in each group felt that the college should wait until the total amount of money required for coeducation had been raised. The level of annual giving would apparently not be much affected if the college became coeducational. The largest number of respondents in each group indicated that the level of their annual giving would remain about the same. (See the Comparative Summary of the Questionnaires, February, 1972.)

The subcommittee also met with the Coeducation Committee of the Student Government Association Senate, Reginald E. Kennedy '73, Chairman, and David F. Smith '73, Publicity Chairman. An open meeting of the subcommittee was held in the Student Union, attended by some 75 students, which gave us an opportunity to sound out student opinion more fully.

Ralph A. Peeples '73, newly-elected President of the Student Government Association, has kept in close touch with the subcommittee. It was partly through Mr. Peeples that volunteer student help was recruited to tabulate the large number of alumni questionnaires which were received.

The Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee and the members of the subcommittee have conferred with Mr. C. David Cornell, Vice President for Finance and Development at Davidson College; with Mr. Robert W. Davidson, Comptroller of Davidson College, and with members of the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee regarding the costs involved in possible plans for coeducation.

The Educational Policy Committee has come to the conclusion, after considering the subject since September, 1971, that it is not only desirable and feasible for Davidson College to become coeducational, but that it is imperative for the college to do so at the earliest possible time. The arguments for coeducation from an educational point of view seem to us overwhelmingly convincing. All segments of the Davidson community — faculty, administrative staff, students, and alumni — desire coeducation for Davidson. From a financial point of view, coeducation has proven feasible at colleges comparable to Davidson.

The trend over the past five years of men’s colleges becoming coeducational leaves Davidson at present in a very small and, to all appearances, diminishing minority. We think the time to begin is with the autumn of 1972. If this plan is followed, the student-faculty ratio will not rise above 13:1 (compared to a present ratio of 12:1).

7. The five-year plan for coeducation described above can be represented on a table as follows. Note that after the first year of coeducation, women are added — over the total of the previous year — at a rate of 50 a year. The enrollment of men remains constant at 1000.

8. During the next five years, i.e., the period from 1977 to 1981, increase the enrollment to a total of 1500, composed of 1000 men and 500 women. This can be achieved by increasing the number of women students by approximately 40 a year during this period. This would bring the total number of women students on campus to 500 by 1981.While keeping the number of men students at the present level of 1000.

9. Insofar as possible, the total amount of scholarship aid available to students should be increased as the total enrollment is increased. We are aware that if scholarship aid is to continue to be made available to students on anything like the present basis, additional capital funds will have to be raised for scholarship purposes. Raising additional funds for scholarships should, in our opinion, be included as a priority item in fund-raising plans by the development office.

10. Housing for women students could be provided in the first year by using all or part of one of the present dormitories for the accommodation of women, and by allowing as many as possible of the displaced men to live off-campus. Some men may have to be accommodated in three-man rooms in the dormitories. If a reduction in room rent were offered to those sharing a three-man room, it would probably ease the problem of finding men students willing to share a room on this basis.

11. For the autumn of 1973, additional dormitory space could be converted to accommodations for women students. The displaced men students would then have to be accommodated in three-man rooms. During the two years 1972-74, housing units should be built without delay to accommodate the increased enrollment in the college. These facilities should provide a variety of living arrangements and should be built to accommodate both men and women students. By the autumn of 1974, when these facilities should be ready, it would be possible to eliminate entirely the overcrowding of the previous two years. We recommend investigating the availability of low-interest government loans for these facilities. The possibility should be considered of including dining facilities, for which government loans are also available, in the new buildings which are erected.

12. Additional housing and dining facilities would be built as needed to accommodate the additional students who would be added to the enrollment in succeeding years. Again, we recommend considering low-interest government loans.

13. In the first year—i.e., for the autumn of 1972—a woman administrator should be appointed with special responsibilities for coeducation. She would be expected not only to help advise women students at Davidson but to help plan and implement coeducation at the college in years to come. This person, we feel, would be essential for the successful realization of this plan for coeducation. We do not foresee at the moment any need for additional women members of the administrative staff.

14. Though this would not be required for the autumn of 1972, the infirmary and health services should be expanded to accommodate the increased enrollment which is foreseen here. The analysis of the President’s Study Commission on Coeducation, which called for two additional nurses and an increase in the number of beds from 21 to 30, should provide a useful guide to what is needed in this area.

15. An adequate Student Union, already in the preliminary planning stage, should be built as quickly as possible, or an existing building (possibly the present library) renovated for this purpose. The experience of other colleges suggests that a student center is crucially important once coeducation is under way. We feel that a union in a single, centrally-located building would be far more satisfactory than scattered facilities.

16. From all indications, the security force already needs to be expanded for 1972-73, and this will be all the more necessary if the above plan for coeducation is followed. As a less expensive alternative to hiring additional full-time security personnel, we urge that the possibility be canvassed of hiring students, possibly those on work-study grants, to work under the supervision of experienced security personnel at designated periods in the evening. We are also conscious of the way in which dark areas of the campus exacerbate the security problem. Rather than attempting to blanket the campus with light, we think it more desirable to place a few well-situated lights at the points of greatest need: e.g., to the north of the Union and to the south and west of the Guest House.

17. We see no urgent necessity for expanding the gymnasium or the physical education staff for the advent of coeducation. Other colleges have found men instructors satisfactory for women students. We note that there is already a dressing room for women in the gymnasium. This room should be fitted up with additional lockers in preparation for increased use by women in the next five years.

18. Finally, nothing in this plan should be understood as precluding the possibility of developing closer relations between Davidson College and Queens College. Present arrangements for exchanges of students should be continued, and once this plan is adopted, Queens students meeting our requirements would be considered eligible to transfer here. The appropriate officials at Queens College have been kept informed about our deliberations on coeducation and discussions are continuing with them. The way should be kept open for proposals whereby the two colleges can cooperate more fully in their academic endeavors in the years to come.

COED PROJECTION

| Year | Women Soph. | Women Enrolled | Women Added | Women on Campus | Men on Campus | Increase in Enrollment | Total Enrollment | Total Added Faculty | Student-Faculty Ratio |
|------|-------------|----------------|-------------|-----------------|---------------|-----------------------|------------------|---------------------|-----------------------|
| 1972 | 60          | 50             | 60          | 50              | 1000          | 100                   | 1100             | 0                   | 12:1                  |
| 1973 | 50          | 25             | 40          | 50              | 1000          | 150                   | 1150             | 2                   | 12:1                  |
| 1974 | 50          | 50             | 100         | 150             | 1000          | 200                   | 1200             | 4                   | 13:1                  |
| 1975 | 25          | 75             | 75          | 250             | 1000          | 250                   | 1250             | 6                   | 13:1                  |
| 1976 | 75          | 75             | 75          | 300             | 1000          | 300                   | 1300             | 8                   | 13:1                  |