_ Oe Vol LXI No. Fifteen ——— Spencer To Fee Decision To V.P.’s By ALEC HOON Asst. Managing Editor

After weeks of uncertainty, it has been decided that the final decision on the comprehensive fee will be made jointly by the Vice President for Academic Affairs John H. Bevan and the Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell.

On Tuesday, the Student Life Committee (SLC) drew up a recommendation for College President Samuel R. Spencer, advising the deletion of the board bill from the comprehensive fee. Spencer will take the recommendation and give it to Bevan and Cornell to make the final decision.

“I will give the SLC proposal to my two Vice Presidents who will review it. I will do nothing except to endorse their recommendation,” Spencer said.

For several weeks, many student leaders wondered if their repeated pleas for reconsideration of the board element of the fee would be considered by the administration. “There has been continued intransigence on the part of the college administration to consider student objections to the comprehensive fee,” SGA President Ralph Peeples stated. “No credible rationale has yet been presented, not even to the faculty, as regards the fee. The same nebulous definitions and circuitous reasoning exist today, just as they did in September regarding this issue,” he added.

Until the SLC stepped in to investigate student complaints, there seemed to be little chance for any reconsideration of the plan as drawn up by Spencer, Bevan, and Cornell last summer. Bevan and Cornell held a meeting with students to discuss their complaints; but nothing seemed to come out of this meeting.

The SLC decided to look into the issue because they became concerned about the fee's effect on students. “The SLC became concerned with the comprehensive fee because they believed that it was affecting the living patterns and morale of students,” he said. “The specific point with which some members of the committee took issue was over the question of a compulsory board bill in the comprehensive fee,” Terry said.

The result of the SLC consultations was the recommendation sent to Spencer. Cornell indicated that he and Bevan will meet in the near future and hammer out a decision. Bevan stated that as of now, he supports the fee as it stands. “I haven't heard new arguments that would change my mind about the comprehensive fee,” he said.

“I support the fee first because it would simplify bookkeeping and give the business office a better base for making budgetary demands and judgments. Another factor is the idea of Davidson as a residential college, which means that it is expected to provide housing and feeding arrangements for all students. This is part of what we are trying to do with the comprehensive fee.

“In keeping with this idea, our procedure is to start from a base (in this case, a compulsory fee), and to work out exceptions to the fee on an individual basis as they emerge, rather than starting with exceptions and trying to establish a policy around them,” Bevan explained.

As Bevan outlined the plan as it now stands, it will be operated by the business office. The business office will bill each student the standard fee of $3,165, except in certain specific cases. An example of one of these cases would be the deduction of the room rent from the bill of students residing off campus. Other deductions include one for those participating in foreign study programs, those who withdraw from school, and those who are excused or unable to eat on campus.At certain meals. Any other exceptions will be handled on an individual basis by the Dean of Students, who will decide on the basis of the student's request.

By BOB HOWELL
Staff Writer

What could turn out to be a serious honor offense marred the final elections of the school year Wednesday, according to Supervisor of Elections Bill Lear. Investigation of the voter sign-up sheet revealed that two of the signatures listed were next to the names of people who are no longer Davidson students.

After the initial balloting Tuesday, the necessary 50 percent of the vote had not been secured by the top three Junior Class candidates, thus calling for a run-off between the top four. In the Tuesday election, Mitchell Purvis pulled 114 votes (20.47 percent), Hall Whitworth received 82 (14.72 percent), Bo Phillips 81 (14.54 percent), and John Knox 68 (12.21 percent). The other candidates in that race, along with the number of votes each received, were: Dan Thorne—44; Mack Mitchell—41; Bill duPont—30; Bill Barnes—26; Murray Hawkinson—26; James Shepherd—24; and Herb Dimmock—21.

In the run-offs Wednesday, Purvis secured 148 votes, Whitworth got 144, Knox came up with 108, and Phillips with 107. The indication would be that Purvis was the new class president and that Whitworth and Knox were his fellow senators. However, discovery of the false signatures meant that this was not the case. Lear and SGA President Ralph Peeples conferred and decided that the election would have to be run again Tuesday, January 25, due to the invalidation of the results.

“Bill and I made the decision to rerun the election regardless of the outcome,” said Peeples. “It's a matter of principle; something like this can’t be allowed to happen.”

Dean of Students Will Terry commented, “It's shocking to realize that Davidson students would seek to defraud an election. It is certainly a violation of the spirit of the Honor System and the Code of Responsibility and all it stands for, and it might well be a violation of these technically. It bears investigation and possibly even prosecution,” he said.

Student Hearing Committee Chairman Duff Bruce emphasized that, “though we've never had a case like this before, anything that conflicts with standard balloting procedure could be punishable as a violation of the Code of Responsibility. It seems to me that some sort of penalty, say, a fine, could reasonably be imposed,” he said.

Lear added, “I'm really disappointed, not because the election has to be run again, but because it shows that there’s a possibility for something to invalidate the results of a system that I don’t think we can improve much upon. There are ways,” he continued, “that security can be improved, such as requiring that students show their I.D.’s before voting, but in terms of what that would do to the turnout and confusion of elections, systems like that are impractical.”

Peeples indicated that he was going to personally apologize to all four candidates, and concluded, “We’re going to keep rerunning the election until the results are completely valid.”

Other elections held Tuesday were for senators from the other classes and to determine (See ELECTIONS, Page 8)

Architects have unveiled the design that meets with the trustee's final approval of the new library's facade. The new plan features alternating columns and two-story windows bordered on either side by the archway-window combination which extends along both sides and the rear of the building.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students | Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
JANUARY 21, 1972

(Staff photo by Erwin)
FACULTY JOINS THE FRAY
Student Life Committee drafts comprehensive fee protest.