Page Six December 1, 1972 The BaviPennian

Acorn Sculptures In An Abstract Style
By GARY GARVIN
Staff Writer

I would like to be around the day, a thousand years from now, that archeologists uncover these works.

‘Energy, Tension, Force, Anxiety’
The sculptor, John Acorn, says that he doesn't like to write about his works, so instead has grouped words that
suggest his thoughts. His inspiration, he says, stems from images of his surroundings. In his sculpture, these images are simple,
direct manifestations of his experiences. They become elemental abstractions of the forces—reactions of man in his natural and man-made environment.
He sculpts in bronze, wood, and aluminum—three mediums he proves to know very well.

‘Roots, Rivets, Bolts, Brains’
One of the themes he works with is that of a hard shell covering soft, inner matter. This, he feels,
is a natural phenomenon, as found, e.g., in a chestnut. In his warrior and industrial heads, the soft matter is
brains, to which flat, thick bars are literally bolted on. This is not so much a natural as it is
a man-made reaction. Soft brains, as objects of thought and spirit, are covered with masks of hard function. Heads become
warriors, men become weapons with ax-like protrusions. In one, the soft brain matter lies exposed, juxtaposed against its hard, insensitive
mask. In others, the soft curves of brain matter are flattened and industrialized into an entirely flat surface, into which
baroque scrolls of design are inscribed. The image is direct and convincing, as man becomes a hardened shell of his
own environment. Further, these works indicate signs of wear from action as the flat shells become corroded into coarse granular
textures. They stand as monuments of man in change and reaction.

‘Breasts, Helmets, Thorns, Thighs’
Acorn says he likes to work in wood because the process is self-contained, and also where he can relieve his
frustrations. That he maintains control in this medium is obvious in his immaculate renderings of pure fluid shapes in natural
tones of wood. As a student, he first reacted to the sculpture of Henry Moore. In his wood carvings, he
reveals an understanding of abstract anatomical forms developed in space similar to that of Moore. This can best be seen
in his work utilizing parallel leg-like forms or the aluminum and wood pelvic structure. They display resolved and unresolved tensions
of fluid forms in space. Perhaps in these works Acorn expresses the formal beauty of the ideal and changeless as
opposed to the real and mutable in his metal pieces.

‘Birth, Growth, Maturity, Death’
Acorn gives us in his sculpture concrete expressions of an understanding of the basic forces and elements of life. They
provide a direct communication that transcends all ages and cultures.

‘Reclining Form’ (Staff Photo by Barnes)
One of the exhibits at John Acorn’s show at Stowe Galleries.

Lady Sings The Blues’ Tells Story Of Singing Drug Addict
A REVIEW
By BOB WRIGHT
Staff Writer

The advertisements proclaim “Diana Ross is Billie Holiday!" Well...maybe so, maybe not. “Lady Sings the Blues” is the first film
in what promises to be a long line of Billie Holiday rip-offs. If this one does nothing else, however, it
certainly gives us an adequate biography of the doomed blues-singer. The film follows her life story from age 14 till
her death at 44, and quite a story it is too.

This Week in Entertainment
By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

Gloria Steinem and Margaret Sloan will give a joint lecture at 8 p.m. this Wednesday in Byrnes Auditorium at Winthrop
College. In her nine-year career, Ms. Steinem has become one of the country’s best-known non-fiction writers and a leader in
the women’s liberation movement. She is currently editor of “Ms.,” a magazine for the non-ladyish woman. Ms. Sloan has been
liberated since age 14 and is presently a contributor to “Ms.” After their lecture, the women's liberationists will field questions
from the audience.

Chorus Performance Planned For Vespers Service Sunday
By JOHN CASSELS
Asst. Features Editor

With the holiday season approaching, the Davidson Male Chorus will present the traditional Christmas Vespers service this Sunday evening. Directed
by Chairman of the Music Department Donald Plott, the 36-member chorus will do a “Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols.”
This service has been presented regularly over the last decade at Davidson. “Reading of nine scriptural passages of the Christmas
story with the music performed following each lesson appropriate to the lesson,” is the theme of the service according to
Plott. This form of service is a long-standing tradition in the English Church, first performed at Cambridge centuries ago, Plott
said. Presiding over the Davidson service will be the minister of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, Reverend John B. Rogers
Jr. Instructor of Art Larry Ligo will be the reader. Christine Ligo, soprano, will sing the offertory solo, “Exultate, Jubilate,”
by Mozart. Professor Wilmer Welsh will serve as organist, playing an Icon for the Annunciation “Hail, Mary” in response to
the fifth lesson. Selections performed during the service will be by Bach, Praetorius, and Gevaert, as well as the traditional
German and English tunes. “There will also be some congregationalParticipation in the prayers, responses, and a hymn sung after the
second lesson," Plott said. The service is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. Sunday evening in the College Church, though the prelude
will begin around 7:15 p.m. There is no admission charge. Sen. Birch Bayh (D-Ind.) will talk on “Crime and Juvenile
Delinquency in Urban America” Monday at 8 p.m. in Dana Auditorium at Guilford College. This will be the culmination of
a day-long program on “Justice for Children” which will begin at 9:45 a.m. and will include the film “This Child
Is Rated X” and panel discussions. There is no admission charge. Angela Davis will speak at the Park Center Dec.
8 at 7:30 p.m. Ms. Davis, acquitted of conspiracy this summer, will be joined by the Fungus Blues Band and
other speakers. There is no admission charge. “The Messiah” by Handel will be presented this Sunday at 4 p.m. in
Ovens Auditorium. The Charlotte Community Chorus and Orchestra will perform the oratorio under the direction of Richard Peek. There is
no admission charge. “The Horse's Mouth,” a 1958 British film with Alec Guinness, continues the Kino Fine Film series this
Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Golden Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum of Art. Admission is by season ticket
only.

Billie Holiday began her life in a whorehouse working as a clean-up girl and eventually becoming a full-fledged prostitute. Finally
fed up with this life, she cons her way into a singing job at a nearby nightclub. She is an
instant success and is offered a job with a new band. The conflicts arise because she is the first black
singer with an all-white band. Paying her dues on the road with the band, Billie faces hostility from both black
and white alike and is soon hooked on heroin, which the song leader supplies her. Things go on like this
for a while. Billie is banned from performing in New York clubs, is arrested for addiction, and goes through cold
turkey in a New York City jail, returns to New York to play Carnegie Hall, and eventually dies of an
overdose. It is a genuine American tragedy, a great lady with a great talent destroyed at the peak of her
career.

“Lady Sings the Blues” is Diana Ross’ first movie and she does a very creditable job at it. Her fine
voice never quite catches the pathos and tragedy of Billie's life, but she tries hard. Still, I can never quite
forget the Supremes and Miss Ross’ sugary-sweet vocals on songs like “Stop! In the Name of Love” and “Love Child.”
Well, you can't have everything. Her acting ability is wavering at best. Some scenes are really powerful and moving (especially
well done are a scene with the KKK and Billie's cold-turkey scenes). At other times I found myself wishing to
God that the movie was over. It is too long for certain, almost 3 hours. The lines are spoken almost
casually; one gets the feeling that the actors are improvising most of what they're saying. Richard Pryor, who plays Miss
Holiday's pianist, nearly steals every scene he is in, which doesn't help Miss Ross any. Billy Dee Williams as her
lover-husband is as tough and masculine as could be hoped. In fact, everyone seems just fine. But somehow I came
away from “Lady Sings the Blues” feeling tired first of all and somewhat disappointed too. I guess I expected too
much from Diana Ross. Maybe you don't. If not, go see “Lady Sings the Blues” and perhaps you'll be pleasantly
surprised. At any rate, it is worth your time to find out about Billie Holiday—we'll probably not see her like
again.

Book Store Opening Soon
By HARRIETT HODGES
Staff Writer

The APO Used-Book Store began operation Wednesday in the basement of Belk, just below the Student Store. The store will
be open from 10 a.m. until 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. until 2:20 p.m. during the first week of each
term, according to APO Vice President Frank Farmer. Later in the term, it will be open for a few hours
each week. APO will buy books from students if they are on the professors’ list of books to be used
the following term. “We will probably pay students one-half of the retail price of the book providing it is in
pretty good condition,” APO secretary Duncan McGoogan said. “When we sell them, there will be about a 10 percent markup.”
Half of the profit will go into the general budget of APO and half will be used by the store
for buying texts and covering losses on books not resold. APO will also use the money to repay the $500
loan they received from the SGA to help start the store. APO is continuing its exchange as well. Students may
bring books which will not be used the next quarter and APO will try to sell them, according to Farmer.
“Students may also bring records to sell,” Farmer said. The Used-Book Store idea was initiated by SGA senator Jim Goodloe.
When the Senate approved the motion for the store, Goodloe asked APO to assume responsibility for its operation, Farmer said.
