HOWARD This 1970 drawing by Phillip Mullen is at Stowe.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
The Davidsonian
October 20, 1972
Page Five

Mullen Ponders Artist’s Role, Conducts Happening In Stowe
A Review By GARY GARVIN
Staff Writer

A nude girl whirls across the paper. What else could it be but another Stowe Gallery exhibit? This month's show
features drawings of Phillip Mullen. Past professor of art at North Dakota, Ohio, and South Carolina Universities, he has accumulated
an impressive array of exhibitions and awards across the nation.

Mullen’s drawings indicate a unique relationship between the artist and his environment. Throughout the show appear many portraits of himself,
where his identity as an artist is perhaps best revealed in his ‘Self Portrait with Robe and Camera.’ Here he
stands ready to click a camera while at the same time exposes his privates—his way of saying "gotcha!" He becomes
a Myra Breckinridge figure in his ‘Self Portrait as Queen,’ where he displays himself in a reverse identity pose. Some
of his works are homemade newspapers which feature, among other things, more of his self-portraits. No longer a passive recorder
of the world, he now becomes an object of historical interest. Other works reflect the way...

Nixon, Football Team Praised
To the Editor:

I have several objections to Mike Ernst’s offensive letter of Oct. 5. In it, he characterizes Nixon as a deceitful,
incompetent criminal, waving the bloody shirt in place of the American flag. He conveniently forgets that George McGovern himself is
not the Messiah he claims to be. Under the guise of ‘new politics,’ he has created a political machine of
such vast proportions that Boss Tweed would turn green. By using the youth vote as a lever, McGovern forced an
unworkable platform through the Democratic committee. The party has been molded in George McGovern's image so as to exclude dissent.
Democrats who don't like it can leave the party.

As for the war, he forgets that two Democratic presidents built it up over an eight-year period to an extent
that, even though hundreds of Americans died in Vietnam, America was reaching full employment. In a capitalist economic system, full
employment is invariably a manifestation of a war economy. Mr. Ernst also refuses to recall that George McGovern voted for
the Tonkin Resolution in 1964. It was only after Johnson announced that he would not seek a second term that
George McGovern, seeing the strength of the Buck Johnson movement, let himself be known as an anti-war leader.

In his enthusiasm for McGovern, Ernst also scorns those who see a vote for Nixon as a vote for America.
Yet he blithely condones George McGovern for rallying Americans to his own special brand of populist demagoguing. Chauvinism ill suits
either camp. It is true that both sides are guilty of propaganda excesses in this campaign. However, Mr. Ernst, with
his use of exaggeration, double entendre, and character assassination, typifies the worst aspect of the campaign. McGovern... For the people?
Think about it.

Peter Celentano, ‘74
Davidson College

To the Editor:

As an upperclassman eating on half a meal ticket, I would like to make some observations about the situation on
the court. Admittedly, the first week I wondered where all the money had gone. With appropriate frugality, I have now
discovered how to get a very satisfying meal for my money. If they aren't an adequate college food service, at
least the Slater Houses make a darn good restaurant.

Bill Barnes
Davidson College, ‘74

To the Editor:

In regard to the recent straw poll held by your newspaper, I believe that the wrong man...

ALAN BARAGONA
Numb Elroy: ‘Come Together, Davidson, seat of reason, stronghold of tradition—like so many other bastions of Kudzu the Ubiquitous, it
has seen a number of traditions pass away this year but only here, perhaps, can one watch a tradition being
born. I first became aware that the campus was in labor on Friday 13 at the bicentennial convocation of Kudzuvian
Druids in the cromlech chambers of Kudzu Hall (The World's Only Indoor, Fully Heated Cromlech, Designed and Constructed Entirely According
to Standards Set by the 1972 Olympics! Now at Popular Prices!). The postnight was full of flitting shadows, all convoking
at the ancient structure. I followed at a distance. Within the circle of bricks, the figures became clearer, black-robed automatons,
marching like dark cherubim to the uncertain rhythms of a mouth organ that conveyed in its wailing the constipation of
the Armenian dwarf who played it, a long-time slave of King Kudzu. The procession moved in bewildering spirals, each flat-topped
specter staggering over the body of Numb Elroy, who sang between tramplings, “Come together, right now...

...won. One only has to look at the issues: McGovern is 1000 percent behind getting out of Vietnam; is 1000
percent behind redistribution of taxes; is 1000 percent behind defense cutbacks; is 1000 percent behind equal education opportunities; is 1000
percent behind new welfare programs; and was 1000 percent behind Sen. Thomas Eagleton.

Bill Reed ‘76
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The Football Team of 1972 and Coach Fagg and his staff have worked countless hours, giving...of themselves far beyond the
call of duty, in order to bring over me.” It continued until King Kudzu emerged from the shadows and waved
a vine for silence. From out of the jungle of his form moved the Senior Puppeteer, a marionette dangling from
his hand. “Have you seen them?” he wheezed under his breath. “They're all over campus and they walk and they
talk and all on command and now Numb Elroy is at peace." “Come together,” sang Numb Elroy as a heel
plowed into his midriff, “over me.” The Senior Puppeteer hovered over Numb Elroy and suspended the marionette above his foot-mashed
nose. “See, Numb Elroy, how it is different from you, how it curves and flows and wiggles at a twitch
of my fingers, how it is yours, all yours. See and be at peace.” “Come together oof,” sang Numb Elroy,
“over me.” “And for this prize,” crooned King Kudzu, “you will befog your eyes and with your silence grant us
license!” “Be at peace,” whispered the Senior Puppeteer, but as he said it, wonder of wonders, the marionette squirmed contrary
to his fingers. Visibly shaken, honor and glory to Davidson College, its students, its alumni, and its friends. These men
deserve our support and complete loyalty, and their having a winning season depends to a large extent on knowing that
they have our backing all the way. Let's show our confidence in them and our appreciation of their sacrifices in
every way possible. That could be the difference between a big win or something less encouraging. Back Your Team! Such
a bunch of great “guys” are certainly entitled to so little from you and me. Jim Causey Davidson College. The
Puppeteer gripped it around the waist to hold it still. “Come together,” croaked Numb Elroy, a toe jammed in his
ribcage, “over me.” “Shut up!” shouted the Puppeteer as the marionette opened its mouth to speak. He shoved a finger
into its mouth but it brought down its wooden teeth hard on his knuckles. With a squeal, he let it
go, and it escaped, a hundred automatons lunging for its trailing strings. But it did not run far. It stopped
before a figure that appeared as if from nowhere, a corps of henchmen crowded around him: Don Guappo Lasagne. “Awright,”
he said in melodious Anglo-Italian, “whatda linguini is all dis hullagullaboo?” “Have a care, Greaseball,” threatened the Puppeteer. “Stand not
in the path of Kudzu, neither covet his property.” “Well, Ise got news for ya, Stringfingers, I gots my own
people and dis here marionette, she's part of dis staff. Don't mess wit my family!” “We know your weakness,” cried
the Puppeteer and one of the black host stepped forward. He perceives his environment. His figures are portrayed in a
multi-perspective approach. An image is repeated or blurred across the surface only to be brought to a point of sharp
focus and repose. Thus multiple images of the nude in “S 4 (Slide w-notes)” overlap, build from faintness to clarity,
as she progresses, then recedes in time. (Do we see Duchamp descending a staircase? Maybe.) Mullen's dramatic composition proves best
in another slide, “S 2 (Icarus Woman).” In another group of his works, the figures are static, in a fixed
time, yet the validity of their presence in space is uncertain. The nude in the silkscreen “Girl in Soft Space”
appears in a cloud of dotted colors in which the foreground cannot easily be distinguished from the background. Mullen places
art and the artist in a social-historical context in his newspapers-as-art. In these, he supplied the layout and pictures, but
left the rest of the page blank for his friends to fill out. Words and events become subject matter in
these. In “Newspaper ‘Columbia in Action’” quite improbable events are predicted by his friends, such as Big Brother getting busted
in 1984 or the end of the Vietnam war in 1974. Finally, Mullen treats real actions as subjects for his
art in his “happenings.” Previously, he has sponsored such events as wrapping people in tinfoil. His next happening will be
in Stowe Gallery, Oct. 30 at 10 a.m. Don’t miss it. It should be an experience well worth attending. “Over
Me” and aimed a Kodak Pocket-size Instamatic at the Don, who quickly signaled to his men. From the familial crowd
stepped Red Lensman the Fisheye, who, with a wave of his tripod, melted the Instamatic in the very hands of
the enemy. “Enough of dis convolution stuff, Mott,” said Don Guappo, turning to me, “I wants you should incorporations into
my fistful year an Annal Visitation to da neglected cattlecombs of Davidson Femalitude.” But before anyone could move, King Kudzu
shot out a vine and entwined the left-hand strings of the marionette. Not to be outdone, Don Guappo snatched the
other strings and began a tug-of-war. The outcome remained uncertain, first King Kudzu winning and then Don Guappo until they
had pulled their victim over the prone figure of Numb Elroy. “Come together,” wailed Numb Elroy, pummeled by foot and
vine. “Come together, right now, over me.” And the strangest thing of all was that as we watched the struggle,
I realized that the marionette alone among the crowd remained silent.
