ALAN BARAGONA

The Davidsonian
March 31, 1972
Page Five

The Adventures Of Mott The Wopple: Cave Canum

Left to darkness and to me, the campus was particularly soothing the postnight that we were discussing law 'n’ order
in Davidson. Katamite Kayrat and the Cockasnook were discussing the approaching and very welcome invasion from the land of Distaffia,
and, since I was filling out my Campus Security Questionnaire at the time, the problem of protecting our invadresses came
up.

There had been a lot of talk about increasing the number of Davidson Rough Riders (as they are fondly known)
in view of slimy perverts who infest the grounds, waiting to pounce upon the girls who play frisbee games postnightly
on the quad (according to a recent poll taken by the clinical psychologist, these repulsive misfits number close to a
thousand). Unfortunately, Senator Rowland's having defeated a proposal to supply the girls with morning stars had brought about a solution
I found personally distasteful — floodlighting the campus. “The minions of evil shall hide their faces from the sun,” he
shouted.

Katamite Kayrat and the Cockasnook said they were unwilling to sacrifice either the aesthetic qualities of the half-lit grounds or
the convenience of having a natural cover for their misadventures just for a little law 'n’ order. “Why not buy
more grass clippers?” ventured Flakely the Cat, whose ears have never been the same since he decided to break into
the church organ while Dr. Welsh was playing (Flakely the Cat has always been the most accomplished and thronic burglar
among us). As usual, we ignored him.

Just as I came to the section on my questionnaire about encounters with dangerous characters in the area, the security
pickup parked across from Castle Pinky. The security pickup is a futuristic vehicle equipped with all the most modern and
some as yet uninvented law enforcement devices: headlights, a horn, wire wheels...

We watched the security officer go from building to building across the way; it was Sec. Off. Socolubi, Guardian of
the Postnight! Sec. Off. Socolubi spends the entire postnight prowling the campus, seeking out evildoers, protecting our welfare with his
very person. And a lonely person it must be. With nobody but the Davidson police to wave at in passing,
Sec. Off. Socolubi drives around and around the college, hour after hour immersed in his own thoughts.

What does he think about? I wondered. Does his mind overflow with noble thoughts of self-sacrifice for the future leaders
of America? Does he, like his colleagues on Adam-12, mull over the meaning of Justice, as set forth by the
world’s most renowned philosophers? Perhaps, like the famous Rollaids Cop on television, he hones his steely nerves to be ready
for the attackers that may lurk around any corner.

At any rate, I noticed that thanks to the efforts of Sec. Off. Socolubi, I had nothing to write in
the part of the questionnaire dealing with muggings and the like. Naturally, then, I was pleased to see him enter
Castle Pinky to check on our safety. I longed to show my gratitude and perhaps delve into the inscrutable workings
of his razor-sharp mind.

As he entered the room, I rose to greet him but saw his eyes widen with fury. He had seen
Garm, the toy terrier we keep in the castle to fend off the cockroaches. As is his wont when confronted
by a uniform, Garm was seized by a fit of sneezing. Sec. Off. Socolubi shrieked with fear and rage.

“You... you boys is trainin’ them hounds to attack us security officers!”

“But...”

“Us security officers can't have none of this! I'm takin' everybody’s name!”

“But...”

“You boys tried to get a dog on me once before and I got him good!”

“But...”

“You boys think you can get me but I'll get you first! I'll turn you all in!” he screamed as
he stomped out.

I began to do the questionnaire. “Curb your anger as you would curb your dog!” Senator Rowland yelled after him.

“Why not just buy more grass clippers?”

Peace Won't Stop Communist Villains

To the Editor:

I read with great interest two recent letters, written by roommates, about ROTC. To Erwin C. Barron I especially address
this letter.

Imagine the entire world to be just the town of Davidson, and that there are two broad ideological divisions among
the citizens. One side believes in a master-and-slave society. It would build a wall around Davidson. No one would be
free to enter or leave at will. The outside world would be sealed off, as West Germany is shut out
by the Berlin wall from Communist East...Germany. Freedom of speech, assembly, and the press—gone. Each person would be told what
he could study, or what to work at. Children would be taken from their parents in infancy and taught to
worship the state and to despise God. The "master and slave" faction would be heavily armed and savagely ruthless in
the use of murder and terror to gain political control.

Opposed to this bloody enemy is the "PEACE NOW" faction of which Erwin Barron is a member and advocate. He
has allied with him a considerable number of students, possibly some older men, many of whom are Christian, idealistic, and
amazingly uninformed about the past record of success of the "master-and-slave" conspiracy. Erwin’s faction would "give up war" with those
gangsters, murderers, atheistic brutes who have a plan to either dominate or destroy Barron and everybody else in the town
of Davidson. Barron would develop "humane and Christian instincts" which would cause him to walk abroad with bared breast, holding
aloft a "peace symbol," believing this would shame the aggressors into following his idealistic example.

Erwin does not understand that an atheist cannot follow a Christian example. To an atheist, a human being is a
soulless animal. To a communist atheist, this Christian animal is to be mastered or destroyed. Erwin would lose either his
liberty or his life. There you have, in miniature, what is going on in the world today. David used a
weapon, a sling and a rock, to defeat the giant Goliath. David very likely belonged to RTTC—Rock Throwers Training Corp.
Lucky for David and his country that he had taken this military training. Bare hands will not prevail against knives
and guns. When their intended victims are unarmed, criminals are elated, but not deterred.

I hope and pray that Erwin C. Barron, and perhaps many of his fine and idealistic friends, will get practical
enough to read in the "Encyclopedia Britannica" everything that has been recorded about the Communist conspiracy to rule the world.
If he finds one act of Communist mercy, write about it to the Davidsonian editor. This study of Communism and
I would also suggest the lives of Caesar, Attila, Napoleon, Hitler, Lenin, Stalin, Mao, and Ho will bring a better
understanding of the views of roommate Jerry Huller.

E. P. Thornton
Murrells Inlet, S. C.

---

Amherst Suspects Financial Aid Swindle

In an investigation conducted by Dean Routh at Amherst College, it was discovered that 34 percent of Amherst’s financial aid
recipients showed significant income discrepancies between their parents’ IRS tax forms and their parents’ confidential statements for financial aid. Routh
estimated that each of the students involved may have received up to $700 more than he deserved. Routh indicated that
more extensive investigations will be undertaken. He said that any inconsistencies which are uncovered will not only be corrected in
future grants, but in retroactive adjustment as well. For example, if a student has been receiving $100 in excess of
his needs for two years, his allocation for 1972-73 will be cut by $100. The student also will be expected
to pay back the $200 he received unjustifiably from the college.

Amherst is not alone in the financial aid overpayment swindle. Tufts, Harvard, M.I.T., and the University of Pennsylvania have all
conducted studies and found a large percentage of income discrepancies between the tax forms and the parents’ confidential statements. In
an M.I.T. investigation, one parent sent in a check for $700 when asked to submit his tax forms. The parent
explained that he owed the school about that much in scholarship assistance.

Judge Upholds Live-In-Dormitories Rule

A federal district judge has upheld a Northern Michigan University rule that requires all students under 23 years of age
to live in college-owned dormitories. A suit was brought by students who charged that the dorm rule violated their freedom
of choice and movement. The judge ruled that there is no constitutional question involved in the requirement, even for those
students over 21.

Wake Forest Plans Grocery Discount

The Board for Economic Cooperation at Wake Forest University has begun a program enabling students to buy groceries, toiletries, and
other articles at wholesale prices. For $1.75, any student can purchase membership in this non-profit program called the Wake Forest
Consumer League. Various wholesalers will fill members’ orders twice a week and will deliver the groceries to the Consumer League’s
campus headquarters.
