The Davidsanian
January 7, 1972
Page Nine

Conference Shows Unusual Balance

AN ANALYSIS
By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

The way things are going, the final standings of the Southern Conference basketball race may look similar to a relief map—a few peaks, a few valleys, and some level ground in between. Prior to the season, crystal balls and other devices enabled sage sportswriters to tab Furman as the best bet to recapture the conference crown. The Davidson Wildcats were marked with East Carolina as pretenders to the throne.

The best-laid plans of writers and other creatures do go astray, however, and some surprises have really shaken up the conference pre-season balance of power. There is definitely a better balance among the teams in the conference this year, particularly among the perennial mediocre finishers. Earlier this week, The Citadel was in a deadlock for the top spot with Furman, and both were in a 1-1 record. The Paladins reached a peak early by leaving the Wildcats' lair with a victory. Their overall mark, however, has dropped to 4-4 and something is wrong. Apparently, the Paladins have been unable to put everything together as they did against the 'Cats. Furman possesses some of the most outstanding talent in the league, but Coach Joe Williams must merge his individuals into a cohesive unit in order for consistency to be attained.

Senior guard Don Jackson has returned to action following a layoff caused by a broken hand, and his presence should help unify the team. With an imposing front line of Russ Hunt, Roy Simpson, Bernard Collier, and help from Gary Clark and Bud Brierly, the Paladins will definitely be a force to be reckoned with when conference play thickens in early February.

Perhaps the most surprising team in the league is The Citadel. The Bulldogs have an impressive worksheet, but they have played some tough outsiders. They deserve an award for ambition (or guffaws for scheduling) in their loss to UCLA. Recovering their senses, the Bulldogs led nationally ranked Virginia with two minutes to play, and eventually lost only 77-72. Normally known for their gung-ho performances, the Bulldogs deserve an award for their efforts.

Falconi Sparks 'Cats To Rally
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The Davidson cagers managed to overcome a spotty season start and won five of their last six games, including the Charlotte Invitational Tournament and their first win over a nationally ranked team. One major reason for the newfound success of the 'Cats is the emergence of John Falconi as a scoring threat. Falconi has led the team's scoring in most of these games and was named to the all-tournament team in the CIT.

Tomorrow night, the 'Cats hit the road to meet West Virginia. The Mountaineers have done fairly well in the national polls. The 'Cats will face the same Mountie starting five that defeated them 93-79 in Morgantown last year, keyed on guard Wil Robinson. Robinson averaged 25 points a game last year as a junior and shot 81 percent from the foul line. Backing up Robinson will be Sam Oglesby, a 6'5" senior, who hit 15 a game last year as a junior college transfer.

Falconi first started coming into his own in the Appalachian game, pacing the Wildcats to their 109-96 victory with 32 points. Mike Sorrentino racked up 17 assists to go with his 13 points. The 'Cats next suffered a severe blow from N.C. State, losing in Raleigh 79-67. Falconi again led the scoring, adding 18, followed by John Pecorak and Joe Sutter each hitting 14. Sutter has been the bread-and-butter man for the team, scoring consistently in the high teens. He was awarded the Most Valuable Player award in the CIT.

The 'Cats blitzed through the CIT, defeating Georgia Tech 91-66 and VPI 83-73. Falconi led the scorers the second night with 26, while Sutter hit 16 against Georgia Tech and 22 against VPI. On New Year's Day, Davidson tackled Southern Conference challenger William and Mary, scalping the Indians 81-68. Davidson did not put on an exceptionally strong show, hitting only 28.2 percent throughout the game. Sutter led the team with 20 points, followed by Eric Minkin with 19. Last Tuesday, the cagers pulled a surprising coup by upsetting thirteenth-ranked St. Johns in New York.The ‘Cats trailed 43-38 at the half, but a torrid second half allowed them an 88-84 victory. Falconi again led the scorers with 24 and Sutter added his consistent 18. Following close behind the leaders were Eric Minkin with 15 points and John Pecorak with 13. Point man Mike Sorrentino led the rebounding for the ‘Cats with five. The team hit 60 per cent as a whole at St. Johns. No matter what the score may be, the Bulldogs seem to have the ability this year which will make all their hustle pay off. Little-known names who carry the load for the Bulldogs are Lou Meckstroth, John Sutor, Cal Hayslip, and Chuck Cordell. Cordell’s claim to fame is scoring 13 of his team’s points in a 16-14 victory over gigantic Burleson’s high school game.

The William and Mary Indians are a puzzling team to analyze. A 2-2 conference mark and a 3-8 overall ledger do not speak well of the Indians. They got the season off to a bang by upsetting Furman, but since then have fallen to the ‘Cats and The Citadel. The Tribe has not played at home since December 15 and will not do so until January 25. It will be a welcome relief for coach Warren Mitchell and his squad to take the home court for a change. Winning on the road has been a problem for the Pirates at East Carolina. They upset the ‘Cats in Minges Coliseum but have dropped road contests to West Virginia, Duke, The Citadel, Davidson, and others. They have not been having a good night prior to the Oral Roberts Invitational, where they fell twice. The Bucs do not have a patsy schedule, and better things are expected from them later on in the season. Coach Tom Quinn has always been an optimist, and he feels that as his fine young players develop, the Pirates will blossom around tournament time.

As usual, the conference valleys at the present are formed by VMI and Richmond. A long-standing tradition will be broken in this year’s tournament, as the Keydets will not be seeded last. That distinction goes to new member Appalachian, which does not play enough conference games to compete for the regular season crown. VMI has already doubled its output of last year by posting a 2-4 overall mark. Their aggressive defense could carry them to some more wins, but they will probably be among the conference also-rans. Richmond falls into the same category, but they are a young team which could cause trouble later in the season. The Spiders rely heavily on Mike Anastasio and Ray Hatcher and possess the potential to knock off an overconfident conference foe. Appalachian is still making the transition to the conference, and the growing pains are evident. They play a fast, helter-skelter type of offense and boast an outside threat in the guard combination of Stan Davis and Charlie Barnes. They may surprise some unfortunate team in the tournament.

Where does this leave the Wildcats? The ‘Cats are easily the class of the league against outside foes, but one St. John’s game does not make a season. A murderous non-conference schedule still remains, and this competition should prove valuable to the ‘Cats when the family feuding begins.

IMAC (Continued From Page 8)

Sentelle looks to have a slight edge on the other three weak teams in the league in the battle to avoid the cellar. Sentelle needs better organization but has a potential all-star in Gary Pomery. Eddie Womack, Mitchell Baucom, and Jack Leonard provide strong support. This team may be a late-season comer. Emanon II and Big E are badly outclassed. Emanon II lacks a strong individual but does not play well as a team either. Big E has a fair amount of talent, actually, but seems unlikely ever to organize it. Perhaps I’m rating this senior-laden outfit too low, but off early performances, I’d say senior apathy has gotten to them.

(LEAGUE C NEXT WEEK)

We cannot hold a torch to light another's path without brightening our own.
—Ben Sweetland

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what "low net cost" really means.

Hal Mapes
Jim Roy
892-1467
892-1424

ROBERT T. STONE
District Agent