LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

EDITOR'S NOTE: In view of the importance of the allegations which Bill Smith presents in his letter, THE DAVIDSONIAN asked
several parties involved in the incident for corroboration of details. Parliamentarian Todd Eades stated that while Peeples was upset with
the decision and let it be known, “he did not curse wildly.” As the editors, we would also like to
express our position on these letters. In accordance with the policy of the newspaper, we have published these letters since
they have met our criteria in that they are signed and are not libelous. We resent the submission of the
letters as taking unfair advantage of the newspaper in submitting materials which are more appropriately political announcements.

To The Editor:

With the upcoming SGA presidential election, I feel the urgency to point out a distinction I see between the candidates.
A circumstance which distinctly portrays what I consider to be an important difference between Alexander and Peeples occurred at a
senate meeting this fall. The scene was created when Peeples began to curse wildly at SGA President Clodfelter and parliamentary
procedure consultants Eades and Meier over a ruling they had made to disallow a proxy vote.

Fleming Answers Fleming On Plight Of Social Life

In response to the well-organized and expressive letter written by Phil Fleming which appeared in the issue of December 17,
I have several things to say. Phil, it was not always this way. As recently as last year, foreign exchange
students were assigned to fraternities here at Davidson. In Phi Delta Theta, we had a very outstanding guy from Holland,
Rene Castelein. He never needed the closed relationship of a foreign clique. And I seriously doubt that you would either
had a change in the system not occurred.

Also, Phil, it has not always been that freshmen withdraw from Davidson like frogs jumping off logs. The underlying reason
is, so they say, coeducation or lack of it. But, would you believe that at this point in the school
year, freshmen in the past would already be in fraternities if they chose. In fraternities, the freshmen can find upperclassmen
who are well-adjusted and interested enough to get them into a social life they can enjoy, a social life which
includes females. (I shudder to think what my freshman year would have been like had it not been for the
upperclassmen I knew.)

On the fraternity court, the freshman can rid himself of the Todd Hobbies who sit in the union minding their
own business as they write editorials about pledge pins and criticize Davidson for what it has not done for them.
It would seem that this new social system (ironic that social system has the same initials as its instigators!) is
going to work, Phil. But how is it going to work? In answering that, I shall direct my words to
Sam Spencer. “Merry Christmas! Ho! Ho! Ho!”

By the time the Davidson dropouts’ places are filled and by the time the Admissions Office is able to fill
the freshman quota from the pathetically low number of applicants, the calibre of person at Davidson will be the type
with which previous graduates and soon-to-be graduates will be ashamed to identify. With coeducation coming in by leaps and bounds,
it won't be long before the girls will see that the men at Davidson are not what they expected, and
history will repeat itself with the female situation.

President Spencer, the benefits of your actions reached a peak long ago. Your purpose has been fulfilled and overshot. You
need to reverse your field soon before we all find Davidson on the short end of the score.

Vic Fleming ‘73
Davidson College

While I can understand Ralph's rejection of the ruling, I can in no way condone or even passively accept such
a reaction to a fair and legitimate decision. In other senate meetings, Alexander has also faced unfavorable and disagreeable decisions,
but, to my knowledge, he has never conducted himself in any other way than with composure and respect for his
fellow senate members.

Bill Smith ‘75
Davidson College

To The Editor:

Last summer while I was in Washington, I visited Senator Jordan’s office. Jordan is the Senator from North Carolina. I
told the office that I was attending Davidson next fall and...Just decided to drop in to say hello. The office
told me, to my surprise, that a student from Davidson was on the Senator's staff. That student was Bill Alexander.
The office of SGA President must be filled by a person who is experienced in government. Bill Alexander has fulfilled
this qualification not only in Washington, but by his work right here in Davidson. As a senator on the SGA
during his freshman and sophomore years, and as vice president of the SGA as well as president of the RHA
during his junior year, Alexander is super-qualified for the office of SGA President. Look at his performance. While on the
senate, Bill has had a perfect attendance record. He has been instrumental in: (1) organizing the Patterson Court Council; (2)
revising the RHA constitution; (3) pushing for married student housing; (4) laying the groundwork for the proposed “students on admissions”;
(5) publishing the student directory of private phones; (6) drawing up a proposal calling for thousands of dollars in dorm
renovations this year; (7) presenting the coeducation proposal to the senate and upon its adoption, presenting that proposal to Dr.
Spencer. Don’t go by what your friends tell you about a candidate and his qualifications. Go by the facts. Go
talk to Bill about his experience, and most importantly, his accomplishments in the senate and in RHA. Let a record
built on experience speak for itself! You deserve the quality representation that only Bill Alexander can provide. As SGA President,
he will see to it that your interests are well represented. This summer Bill will be staffing Senator Jordan's office
for the third consecutive year. When you're in Washington, be sure to drop in and see him.

Gus Succop ‘75
Davidson College

‘Last Picture Show’ Views ‘Peyton Place Out West’

A REVIEW By JACE GAFFNEY

Peter Bogdanovich’s The Last Picture Show is a black-and-white film, and its first scene, framed in long shot, is of
the courthouse square of a dusty, desolate Texas town. The camera then pans slightly until we see the “picture house”
(movie theatre). Bogdanovich's opening scene is startling in its conventionality. Black-and-white photography, simple camera placement and movement, and the dustiness
seem to have been manufactured by ghostly (ghastly?) wind machines discarded from some ancient Hollywood set. There is something square
about it all, not campy square, but honest square. The scene firmly places the audience in a real-life setting, but
it also creates a peculiar, ominous type of resonance.

There is something conventional about the subject matter, too, for this is the hot, barren, sex-strangulated Southwest of the early
1950s, home of Hud and not too distant neighbor of the hothouse workings of Tennessee Williams and William Inge. The
film focuses on the young people of the town, in particular the boys, Sonny Crawford (Timothy Bottoms) and his buddy
Duane (Jeff Bridges), their struggle to grow up as men, and their futile attempts to escape the boredom of their
lives. The avenues of escape are a pool hall and “picture show” house, both owned by Sam the Lion (Ben
Johnson), the only father-image to be found in town, and sex. This is that special kind of sex — adolescent
sex, raunchy, callous, stupid sex, for the most part more morbid than sordid. It is the same kind of sex
practiced by the adults who desperately want a way out of their loneliness and ennui.

The people of The Last Picture Show could be characterized as Peyton Place Westerners. They have the same problems and
they sometimes act as inhumanly towards one another. But director Bogdanovich and scenarist Larry McMurtry refuse to treat or characterize
them as such. Whereas a director of less taste and restraint would sensationalize every sexual indiscretion, Bogdanovich directs his players
in the same manner with which he opened his picture — squarely, honestly. He doesn’t play things up; he plays
them out. The stereotype characters take on a very tragic form of humanity as they desperately wrestle with their own
hapless lives. Never does Bogdanovich get derisive; never does he exploit the clumsiness of the moment for a cruel, facetious
laugh. He can portray hopeless squalor and heartbreak without succumbing to it. The vile bitchiness of the...

(See LAST, Page 10)
