Page Eight May 5, 1972 The Davidsonian

How Charles Gourlay is bridging the post-college financial gap. With Super Start.

“Take a person getting out of college, going on the job market,” says Charles D. Gourlay, B.S. in Business, UNC-CH ’71, who is now a Construction Coordinator. “O.K. You’ve got to worry about renting an apartment, putting a deposit down, deposits on all your utilities, plus the month’s rent in advance. And living expenses. And then you load him down with a car payment. Add all those up and see how much you’ve got left. But, if you give a man six months’ deferred payment on his car and Master Charge, it gives him time to realize what he can afford and what he can’t afford. That way, he doesn’t overspend. And, if you overspend the first month or two, you’ll get so far behind you'll never catch up. $uper $tart was valuable to me, and should be valuable to anyone unless they are independently wealthy.”

Graduating students from four years of college, post graduate or professional school can qualify for Super $tart.

Also, be a student in good standing with a C or higher average. And be of legal age with definite plans to live and work in North Carolina after college.

Ask about $uper $tart at any of the 164 offices of First-Citizens Bank in N.C.

We serve 67 towns from the mountains to the coast in North Carolina. There is a $uper $tart Officer in each office of First-Citizens Bank. See any of our $uper $tart Officers. Another Can Do first. Exclusively at First-Citizens Bank.

First-Citizens. Member F.D.I.C.

Free banking services and a loan at a preferred rate with delayed payment option are included in this unique package of banking services.

$uper $tart offers free checking service with no service charge for one year, 200 free personalized checks, and a free safe deposit box for one year.

$uper $tart offers you a line of credit, a preferred rate installment loan for a new or used car or other major purchase with no payments due for the first six months, and a Master Charge credit card with no payments due for the first six months. Finance charges do accrue, however, during these six months’ periods.

$uper $tart also offers you a relationship with the Can Do bank. We'll be happy to help you get established in your new town. After all, that’s how we came to be called the Can Do bank: by going beyond the call of duty to serve our customers.

© First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company 1972