AROUND THE END (Staff photo by Goodman) John Webel (44) takes the ball around the end on an option.

Gridders Fall To Spiders 20-14
By JIM SITTERSON
Asst. Sports Editor

Davidson's best defensive effort of the season ended in a 20-14 loss last Saturday. "We lost a tough game to
a strong Richmond team," was coach Dave Fagg's initial comment. Fagg felt that the defense played its best game of
the season, noting, "The linebacking was the best we've had all year." Woody Montgomery, Bill Garrett, and Hal Paul were
singled out as playing exceptionally fine games.

The offense played well in the first half but, "We played a very sporadic second half," according to Fagg. The
offense was hampered by poor field position all day, pointed out Fagg, remarking, "Our offense started once within our own
five-yard line, once inside our own ten, and three times within our own twenty." In contrast, Fagg pointed out that
Richmond started five drives from inside the Davidson twenty.

The game was very close as far as statistics were concerned. Davidson held the edge in total offense with 407
yards to Richmond's 378. The Spiders rushed for 244 yards, while the Cats were only able to run for 59.
The passing game made up for this deficit as Scotty Shipp completed 15 of 32 attempts for 245 yards. Richmond
was able to pass for only 41 yards.

The major factor in the game, however, was penalties. The Cats were penalized 11 times for 90 yards to Richmond's
11. Fagg was upset over some of the calls, but he did not criticize the officials. Sports Information Director Emil
Parker was more explicit. "There were several calls regarding pass interference that were dubious," he stated. One of these involved
a play where a Davidson player was found guilty of pass interference in what was a judgment call. On another
occasion, a Richmond player clearly tripped a Davidson receiver running downfield within plain sight of two officials, but no penalty
was called. There were other penalties called on the Cats which included nonexistent clips and face guarding. Parker summed up
his feelings concerning the officiating by commenting that, "It was a very bizarre performance by the officials."

The loss was naturally disappointing for the team.

The Davidsonian
November 17, 1972
Page Nine

By JIM SITTERSON
Asst. Sports Editor

Davidson closes out the football season tomorrow in a conference game with The Citadel and hopes to avenge a 47-7
defeat last year. "They humiliated us last year and we want to play better on Saturday," was the way coach
Dave Fagg put it. The Cats will also be going after their third conference win this year. The team is
presently 2-2-1 in conference play. The Citadel is 4-6 overall and 3-3 in the conference, a record Fagg feels is
misleading. "Citadel is coming off a very disappointing year and they are...

8 Lettermen Lead Matmen
By JACK LINARD
Staff Writer

The return of eight lettermen sparks great optimism for the coming wrestling season. According to Coach Charles Parker, the strength
of this year’s team will lie in the middleweight classes. John Scandling, Robert Jacobs, Randy Weste, and co-captains Rob Benton
and Rusty Winchester will be competing for four spots. In the upper weight classes, three lettermen return: Jim Purcell, Frank
Shinn, and heavyweight Bill Garrett. Three freshmen, Peter Hotchkiss, Tony Tomlinson, and John Kennelly, show much promise for the future.
Parker says that Kennelly is almost certain to fill the 167-pound weight class. "If we can fill in a few
weight classes we'll be in good shape," said Parker. These weight classes, 118, 156, and 177 pounds, could hold the
future to the success of the team. The season opens December 1 with the North Carolina Collegiate Tournament. The first
dual meet will be held January 13.a much better team than their record shows,” said Fagg, adding, “They ought to
be 8-2 instead of 4-6.” The Citadel's offense consists of a very solid running game and a passing attack which
has improved throughout the season. Discouraging, but Fagg felt that the blame could not be laid on anyone, particularly the
defense. He said, “They played a great game and deserve all the praise. It’s just a terrible shame they didn’t
win.”

Cats Seek Revenge, Third SC Victory In Game With Dogs

“They have a good fullback and two tailbacks of equal ability. Both of them are studs, really exceptional runners,” was
Fagg's appraisal of The Citadel's backfield. The Bulldogs have a more than adequate passing attack to complement their running game
in Fagg’s opinion. “Their quarterback is very tough and they have good receivers,” he said. “They are capable of springing
the long score.” Fagg promised that The Citadel defense would play a very “physical” game. “They have two big ends,
6-3 and 6-6, their tackles are strong, and their secondary is very aggressive,” he said.

Dave Ingold will be the only starter who will miss the game. John Webel and Alton McCallum will be the
starting running backs. McCallum has been hampered with injuries all year and his return has given the team a good
inside runner according to Fagg. The key to the game will probably be Davidson’s ability to stop The Citadel’s running
game. The defense held their own against Richmond last week and Fagg was confident that they would be able to
repeat this performance against The Citadel. “We want to win a third conference game very, very much and we also
want to show better against The Citadel than we did last year,” he said.

Seniors Montgomery, Garrett Spark Cat Defensive Team

By BOB WETZEL
Staff Writer

Woody Montgomery and Bill Garrett have been outstanding performers on the Davidson football squad's defensive unit. Both were heralded in
the preseason as all-conference material, and both have responded admirably. Montgomery, a linebacker, was honored as Southern Conference Defensive Player-of-the-Week
for his work against Wake Forest. Garrett, a tackle, was specifically cited by Coach Dave Fagg after the Bucknell game
for both an outstanding game and steady play all season. But they also are seniors, and each will be playing
in his final game as a Wildcat tomorrow when Davidson takes on The Citadel.

“I've enjoyed it,” said Montgomery. “I'm glad I came back. Maybe I don't get as emotionally involved in the games
as I should,” he added, “but I've had a pretty good year and I've had a good time.” Montgomery, who
does most of the placekicking for the Wildcats, also commented that he was “pleasantly surprised” by the way his kicking
had progressed. “Jack (Stultz) and I just started kicking for the fun of it last season, and it’s turned out
real well for me.”

Garrett had similar comments. “This is the best year I've had,” he ventured. “It’s also been my most enjoyable season.”
Both Montgomery and Garrett had mixed emotions and no explanations regarding the Cats’ poorer defensive performances this fall, Lenoir Rhyne
and William and Mary in particular. Those things just happen, they said. But, both were most vociferous in pointing out
that the Davidson defense is much improved over last year. Garrett noted that the coaches have really “gotten the job
done” this season. “I don't believe you can overstress the great job they do,” he added. “The team spirit is
the best I've seen in the last three years.” Montgomery said, “I think we've had better individuals and better depth
on the team this season. Guys like George Weiker, Eddie Womack and Tom Fleischer have really done the job this
year, and will be back next year.”
