Page Six
March 17, 1972
The Davidsonian

FRESH SIGNS
(Staff photo by Davidson)
This week’s warm weather encouraged the appearance of these harbingers of spring.

Village Plans Downtown Area
By TODD EADES
Contributing Editor

The town of Davidson has a town plan. The idea for a plan to guide the town’s growth has been
in the minds of several town citizens for a long time, but only in the last three to four months
was the final design drawn up. Implementation will begin as soon as possible. There is no fixed timetable, but the
town hopes to begin work on the streets in the downtown area this fall.

There is a financial plan. The plan is to make the downtown area into an open mall around the stores
and three large off-street parking lots. Concord Road will be extended across Main Street to Railroad Street, which will be
lengthened to meet Main Street in the area of the present town hall. Depot Street and the alley on Main
Street will be closed. A green will decorate the four corners of Main Street and Concord Road. A youth center
is projected, as is a small government center containing the town hall, the fire station, and the library.

J. N. Pease Associates, the architects of the plan, and the town officials hope that the college will relocate the
Union in the present Fine Arts parking lot to increase ties between the town and the college. Coordinator of Student
Activities C. Shaw Smith is not in favor of the idea. He said the location would be great for the
student store but not for the Union, which he sees as “a place of interest.”

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus presents the 102nd edition of “the greatest show on earth” at the Charlotte
Coliseum. Elephants, tigers, lions, bears, camels, horses, and humans highlight the seven remaining performances: Friday at 4:15 and 8:15 p.m.;
Saturday at 11 a.m., 3 and 8 p.m.; and Sunday at 2:30 and 6:30 p.m. Prices range from $3 to
$5.

“Up With People,” a musical show, will appear in Ovens Auditorium on March 24 and 25 at 8 p.m. Tickets
range from $2 to $5.

“The Miser” by Moliere will be presented by the drama department of Queens College March 22, 24, and 25 in
Dana Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. Student tickets are $.50.

“Hedda Gabler,” a play by Henrik Ibsen, will be presented by the Drama Department of UNC-C March 23, 24, and
25 at 8:15 p.m. in the Rowe Creative Arts Building. Student tickets are $1.

Paintings and prints by Robert Williams are on exhibition in the Garden Gallery at the Mint Museum through April 5.
Williams was an instructor of art at Davidson from 1965 to 1969.

The Charlotte Symphony will perform in Ovens Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. March 22.

“Mule Deer Country,” a life history of the mule deer filmed by Buzz Moss, will be shown in Dana Auditorium
at Queens College at 7:45 p.m. on March 23. Student tickets to this Audubon Wildlife Film are $1.

Two cantatas, “Christ Lay in Bonds of Death” by Bach and “Stations on the Road to Freedom” by Peek, will
be presented at Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte at 7:30 p.m. on March 19.

The Dartmouth Glee Club will sing in Dana Auditorium at Queens College March 19 at 8 p.m. There is no
admission charge.

One hundred photographs from the George Eastman House collection are on view in the Round Gallery of the Mint Museum.
The oldest photograph in the display is an 1843 picture of Venice.

Drawings and prints by Maude Gatewood are available for looking, renting, and buying in Gallery 501 of the Mint Museum.center
of our own” to serve and service our own people first. He pointed out that there are many ways to
serve the community but that the Union's responsibility is first to the college and then to the town. The college
still has a large role in the plan, however, since it owns a substantial amount of property on both sides
of Main Street. A college administrator, Director of Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze, is a member of the Implementation Committee
for the plan.

National Art Show Opening At Stowe

A PREVIEW
By FRANK SOOS
Staff Writer

Yes friends, Sunday in Stowe Galleries you can finally get a look at the show you've all been waiting for—no
doubt, you've never heard of it, the Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition. It’s much more important than the NIT
and it’s happening right here on your own campus. To offer some credibility for you non-believers, here are some facts
to satisfy any Davidson man’s thirst for truth. The Davidson National is truly a national show, receiving entries from 49
states (Hawaii didn’t make it). Over one thousand artists submitted 2,523 works for the initial judging. That number makes the
Davidson National not only the largest competition of this year but also the largest competition of its kind in recent
years.

Each entering artist was allowed to enter as many as two prints or drawings for the judging. From these, our
noble juror had the not-too-envious task of picking the very best of them. Fearless Frank Getlein, critic and columnist for
the “Washington Star,” waded into the crowded Stowe Galleries with a critical eye, a strong heart, and a foul mouth
to judge. After three days, he emerged, a veritable John Wayne come home from fighting the Indians. He selected 127
pieces of great (as well as representative) art to make the Davidson National Show. You'll see just about any type
of art being made these days within the realm of printing and drawing. Works range from the abstract to the
surreal to the real. Media range from pencil and paper to the most complex multiple plate printing.

Sunday, March 19, marks the show’s opening. The reception will be from 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. and is open
to the college community. However, the show will be on display until April 29 for your artful edification. Getlein also
judged the Piedmont University Center Student art exhibit while passing through the area with his all-seeing eye. Of the 20
eligible colleges in the Piedmont region, Davidson was the standout.

50,000 JOBS
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
CAREER OPPORTUNITY PROGRAMS

The National Agency Of Student Employment has recently completed a nationwide research program of jobs available to college students and
graduates during 1972. Catalogs which fully describe these employment positions may be obtained as follows:

Catalog of Summer Career Positions Available Throughout the United States in Resort Areas, National Corporations, and Centers. Price $3.00.

Foreign Job Information Listing Over 1,000 Employment Positions Available in Many Foreign Countries. Price $3.00.

SPECIAL: Both of the Above Combined Catalogs With A Recommended Job Assignment To Be Selected For You. Please State Your
Interests. Price $6.00.

National Agency of Student Employment
Student Services Division
No. 35 Erkenbrecher
Cincinnati, Ohio 45220
