Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
NOVEMBER 17, 1972

How's Housing?

The reality of coeducation and the decision to increase the size of the student body to 1500 has forced the
college to take a much-needed look at its present and future housing policies and facilities. The complexity of the situation,
involving financial considerations as well as questions of student interest, will require the most careful and serious study before any
new residences are built. It is of utmost importance, however, that the mistakes of the past not be repeated. The
current dormitories, especially Belk, are barely livable. Long halls, lack of adequate study and lounge facilities, and a dearth of
common interests to draw students together, force residents to live in isolation. Although we must take into consideration the financial
feasibility of new housing patterns, we firmly believe that the well-being of students should be of prime importance. We must
explore all possibilities of funding in order to maintain our current low rate of room rent.

As the college considers new housing, we believe certain provisions to be indispensable for successful and happy living in them.
First, the monolithic mind must give way to small group thinking. The Belk Dorm concept must be neglected in favor
of smaller living units which will provide students with more living space and more satisfying interaction with their peers. Twelve
to 16 students residing in rooms around a central lounge area, we find a satisfying method of housing. Students also
deserve the right to privacy afforded by a private, single room, if they so desire. New housing must include more
single rooms, both for men and women. That 85 percent of the coeds this year wanted single rooms may indicate
a trend for the future.

In addition to planning future housing, the college must take a $50 step to make the present dorms more livable.
The addition of lounges, game rooms, and carpeting should first be considered. Even making suites out of some 10 rooms
in Belk is not a far-fetched idea. The college must be deft enough to plan flexible and ingenious housing which
will meet the needs of future generations of students. Such will not be an easy task. Most housing is planned
to satisfy students who have graduated by the time the rooms are ready to be occupied. Davidson must look ahead,
especially if the new housing is to be used as long as the present housing has been.

Student Activities Car

The student Senate acted with prudence Monday night when it referred the proposal to purchase a student activities car to
a committee for further study. There is no doubt that such a vehicle will greatly help certain organizations on campus
by providing a ready means of transportation. That the student government and the administration are cooperating in this venture is
also an encouraging sign. But despite the virtues of this proposal, many pitfalls lie ahead unless the committee minutely details
exactly how the car shall be used; general priorities will not suffice. Ultimately someone will have to decide which organization
may use the car. But if a conflict arises, who will be the one to decide what organization’s request is
more valid than another’s? The activities car at St. Joseph's College of Philadelphia caused similar difficulties for that school. Although
their student government admitted the car was useful, they found the problem of priority almost insolvable. We encourage the ad
hoc committee which will study this problem to view all aspects of an activities car. It is possible that $1700
may cause more disappointment and protest than the car will be worth. But we hope not.

You Pays Your Money, You Takes Your Chances

Problems Of Classics Abroad Indicate Need For Revisions

AN ANALYSIS By ROBERT TOUCHTON Associate Editor

The time has come again for hopeful world travelers to cast their lots with the fates and pray that they
can join that select group known as Alumni of Classics Abroad. The concept of Classics Abroad is great—studying classical art,
architecture, religion, and literature in their native surroundings. And no matter how it is executed, that concept remains to make
the program perhaps the best foreign study program at this or any other college. It is in the execution rather
than the concept that objection can be found to Classics Abroad. The length of time for the seminar is very
nearly ideal, being long enough to cure a person of many of his American hangups without leaving him too long
without American comforts. And it gives a student a wide, broad, in-depth look at other cultures that few travelers can
hope to get. There is variety as...Well as more than just cursory study, the difficulties of Classics Abroad come with
what one student called “the wavering, uncertain personality of the instructor.” It is never pleasant to deal in personalities, but
through continuous service as instructor, George Labban has so intricately tied himself to Classics Abroad that it is impossible to
separate the program from the instructor in honest discussion. And it is only through honest discussion that the problems of
the program can be solved to the mutual benefit of participants and the program.

Last year’s group was never certain where it stood with Labban, what his response would be to even a simple
“Good morning,” or what his next move would be. And since he held both the power of the gradebook—a power
every student understands—and the power delegated by Dr. Bevan to terminate a person's connection with the seminar at any time
he saw fit, we were really at his mercy. Our pride and self-respect were severely hurt many times as we
were put in demeaning situations. We were almost never told where or when we were going next. One time, in
Olympia, where we were paying exorbitant prices for most inadequate rooms, we were forbidden to go into each other's rooms,
certainly a slap in the face of any 20 or 21-year-old in a prestige college. The same restriction held elsewhere.
Appeals to reason did little good. I complained that I did not think we were getting our money's worth in
that particular hotel, only to be told that I had “no grounds for complaint,” even though I could see by
that time that the seminar was already costing more than I had anticipated or been led to believe.

The program is considerably more expensive than it might be, and a serious case can be made for a re-evaluation
of the way students’ very precious money is spent. Our accommodations were extremely erratic. At times no plans had been
made for our accommodations, at least as far as we could see; other times we stayed only in a place
where the instructor had stayed before. “I've never stayed anywhere else in Rome.” And sometimes the students got a downright
bad deal, such as in Olympia and at Nauplion, where all eight students wound up in a room no larger
than those in Belk. The schedule needs careful and major revision, and the college should work with the instructor in
devising the plans. An equal amount of time was spent in Nauplion, Greece (mostly walking dusty streets), and Rome, Italy,
and less time was spent in Florence. No one paying $1200 over the cost of a similar term at Davidson
wants to spend just two or three hours a day studying. But neither should he expect to have to work
every day or on special, especially holy, days.

A column analysis of this sort cannot do justice to a ten-week experience. Classics Abroad, with all its problems, remains
a high point in my life and I can sincerely recommend it to any student who goes into it with
knowledge of what he's getting into. But to go unprepared and unwarned, as last year’s group went, is to do
disservice to both self and the seminar.

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

“Doll's House” concludes its run at the Charlotte Little Theatre with performances tonight and tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. Thinking about
his play in 1879, Henrik Ibsen wrote, “There are two kinds of spiritual laws, two kinds of conscience, one for
men and one, quite different, for women. They don't understand each other, but in practical life, woman is judged by
masculine law, as though she weren't a woman but a man.” Now considered an argument for women's rights, the play
remains controversial. Student tickets are $1.50.

The Charlotte Symphony will present a concert Nov. 29 at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. Pianist Detlet Kraus is the
guest performer. Student tickets are $1.50.

“It Am, She Said” closes tonight with a performance at 8:15 p.m. in Dana Auditorium at Queens College. Written by
Queens students and faculty, the play focuses on three famous women and their struggles: Zelda Fitzgerald, Isadora Duncan, and Margaret
Bourke-White. Tickets are $1.

Joe Cox is exhibiting his light murals at the McDonald Art Gallery in Charlotte through Dec. 8. Light murals are
changing light paintings created by colored lights activated by a keyboard, an outgrowth of Cox's interest in computer technology. There
is no admission charge.
