ROBERT TOUCHTON  
The Davidsonian  
April 14, 1972  
Page Five  

Innocents Abroad Face Smallpox  

A smallpox outbreak in Yugoslavia, caused by a Moslem pilgrim bearing contaminated holy water from Mecca, has public health officials in Europe and the Mideast on the alert. Many governments, fearful of an epidemic, have ordered mass vaccinations. The U.S. Public Health Service sent a team of American doctors to Yugoslavia to train Yugoslav officials in the use of an air-gun vaccine injector that can inoculate 1,000 people an hour. (“The Wall Street Journal”, April 4, 1972).

Robert Touchton is presently on Classics Abroad.

Looking for a completely unique experience? Colt 45 may be 634% more unique than being midwife to a rhinoceros, but it loses to all these gems. Try waking up in Yugoslavia one morning after having a little too much ouzo (a Greek liquor) the night before in Greece. Or if that doesn’t fit your fancy, how about finding yourself in Zagreb, Yugoslavia, without a World Health Organization vaccination form when there’s smallpox all over the country and you can’t get back into Greece without that form. I thought the first was enough of an experience.

Actually, it's not as bad as it sounds. I wasn’t the victim of a white slave trade. I was on a train from Athens to Belgrade when I drank that ouzo, trying to improve Greek-American relations. (What I won't do for my country.) A Greek man with a travel bag full of vodka for his wife and ouzo for himself offered me some of the latter after he got on the train at Saloniki. How could I turn him down? When Tom Hatley, my travel-mate, refused some, I had to drink a little. But three more-than-shot-glass-size drinks? What could make me do such a thing as that? Maybe it was a foreknowledge of what was to come when I crossed the border. All I remember is the wait at the border and a most uncomfortable night sleeping with an overactive heater right beside my bed.

But getting into Yugoslavia is easy compared to getting out. To get out you have to have that little yellow form from W.H.O., and mine was back in a locked car trunk in Athens with the key in Izmir, Turkey with Steve Balkcom. I found out I needed it when I went to buy a train ticket from Belgrade to Zagreb. That was Saturday, and of course the embassy was closed, though I certainly tried to get in. I did happen to run into a doctor at the embassy who told me he’d give me another form for $20 if I'd come back Monday. Sound easy enough? Well, not when you're going to Zagreb on Sunday and already have your tickets (we had to get out of Belgrade, a dirty, dingy, downcast city). But, we noticed more and more people with band-aids on their upper arms as we walked around Belgrade, and Tom hadn't had a smallpox vaccination in nearly three years.

So, to Zagreb, a far more beautiful city than Belgrade, and an American consulate there. Bright and early Monday morning we walked in, and after a short wait went in to see a Croatian woman who told us the consulate couldn't work miracles, (I always thought from the movies that they could do anything.) I explained our situation to the lady, and we debated whether we could get a reply from Dr. Davis or not in two days’ time (and whether the Greek government would accept a telegram). She finally sent us to a hospital with a set of sentences on sheets of paper that we could use like deaf-mute cards to get there and find an English-speaking doctor.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Financial Policy Rebuked

By

To the Editor:

Here is a copy of a letter sent March 30 to Mr. Cornell:

In the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, the students were informed that tuition has again gone up, by the mere sum of $225. I feel, as do most of my peers, that this increase is both unjustified and unethical. Unethical in as much as we were asked to put down a deposit for next year before your office formally notified us of the increase.

Davidson College has grown tremendously. Not in student body but rather in unneeded personnel. The administration has added several highly paid administrators (with personal secretaries) who have been extremely inefficient. Your job is to cut costs, but rather you seem to encourage inefficiency. Did you know that the registrar cannot even tell a student how to declare a major? Mr. Stacks suggested to you that the laundry cease use of paper wrappings for laundry (for a $1,000 savings) but you turned him down. Why? And of course we all are well aware of how Davidson College’s plethora of custodians and groundsmen earn their money. That is by fertilizing trees twice a year and wasting time. The list goes on. But, I need notre- mind you of these things as you are paid $30,000 to see it for yourself. However, I would like to tell you that perhaps a very big reason why applications and student caliber is on the decrease is due to Davidson's skyrocketing costs. My brother is a merit scholar finalist, an All-Virginia Madrigal, All-Virginia jazz musician (sax, flute, and clarinet), has board scores of 1400 and is an A student. He has decided not to come to Davidson. Why? Because for the price he feels he can do better. He is not alone. How do you justify your actions? Please do not bore me with bull-shit about inflation. Expectantly awaiting a reply. Herb Dimmock ‘74 Davidson College

To the Editor:

I would like to testify to that student who might be considering a U.S. university his junior year that, despite allegations from Davidson professors that his immaturity is showing, the year not only will be rewarding but also will create no special difficulties in re-entering Davidson, in readjusting to Davidson's academic routine, nor in being accepted by a graduate school. An important difference between the experience at one of the Eight College Exchange schools and at a state university is the inevitability of meeting at a state university a broad spectrum of people, possessing varied intellectual levels and cultural backgrounds. This experience is important for any citizen's education. I would like to thank Dr. Ostwalt for the nights he worked arranging my year at the University of Texas at Austin.

Alan Frierson ‘72 Woods Hole, Mass.

One More Hurdle

As it turned out, there wasn’t one. No, even those old movies of food lines in Europe after the war prepared me for what I was going to see at the hospital. There were lines of people everywhere, pushing and shoving each other, all trying to get in to get their vaccination. We showed our third deaf-mute sentence to a lady who looked like a nurse. Up the stairs and down the stairs we were led, up to a private office and then back down to the mob scene in the lobby. Finally, a nurse appeared who listened to our situation and decided that we'd just as well go ahead and get the vaccinations since Tom needed one and I had little choice if I wanted to go back to Greece to meet Professor Labban on time. We were escorted into one of the vaccination rooms, ahead of about 35 Yugoslavians who almost didn’t let me through. (There go US-Yugoslav relations!) The nurse checked with the doctor in charge, who said I should get the vaccination. Give the nurse your passport and your 20 Dinar and roll up your sleeve. The prick. Then sit down there while they process the forms and look at the people fighting to get in the room. One elderly lady with bright red cheeks almost cried when the door closed on her and she had to wait until next time. Shortly, our passports and completed forms came back. Mission accomplished. Colt 45, who needs it? I'll stick with PBR and get my kicks in other, slightly more exotic, ways. Now if I can just get back into Greece...

Dimmock

Outside Perspective

By LEX VEAZEY

Church-Related Colleges May Get Federal Aid

Like most private colleges, church-related private colleges are having financial problems. However, they may soon be able to receive direct federal aid. In a recent U.S. Supreme Court decision, any institution of higher learning was given the right to qualify for direct federal aid provided that its educational function is not distorted by its religious commitment. According to Chief Justice Burger, “institutions with admittedly religious functions but whose predominant educational mission is to provide their students with a secular education” are entitled to federal aid.

New Medical Schools Proposed

The Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs has approved a bill that would authorize $625 million over a five-year period to help set up 10 new medical schools. Veterans Administration hospitals would provide student-training facilities for these schools. The House of Representatives has passed a bill providing for the creation of five new medical schools connected with VA hospitals. However, many medical school officials do not feel the Veterans Administration should become involved in administering medical education.

Students Help Taxpayers

Students in over 120 American colleges and universities are helping low-income taxpayers fill out their tax returns. The students, most of whom are studying law, business, or accounting, have taken a training course sponsored by the Internal Revenue’s Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA). The Internal Revenue Service hopes the program will help save these low-income taxpayers some of the $66 million lost each year by taxpayers who do not realize that they are entitled to refunds and therefore never file for them. A VITA program official said, “college students are really the future of this whole program.”