LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

To The Editor:

Having attended Davidson for a year and a half, I have fallen into the habit of ignoring all but a few of the announcements, advertisements, and notices which seem to constantly be crossing my door, bulletin board, and dorm announcement box. So last week when I received an "edict from on high" from the Director of Student Housing, I threw it away as I have many others. But later on, after its contents had been revealed to me by another student, I re-read it.

This edict, written by Mrs. Scotty Nicholls, dealt with what Mrs. Nicholls has labeled as the "increasing problem of the cat and dog population in the residence halls." It seems that Mrs. Nicholls believes that the cats and dogs owned by Davidson students are somehow instigating a plot to "harass the custodians... relieve themselves on walls and vending machines... and excrete in corridors and on stairs..." Mrs. Nicholls also says that she refuses to be intimidated by these animals and will begin to "clean up the town," so to speak, by evicting and impounding these squatters.

I couldn’t help but be amused with this notice and appalled at the ridiculousness of the whole idea. It seems inconceivable to me that Mrs. Nicholls could be that threatened by the less than half dozen dogs, cats, and "exotic pets" owned by Davidson students. Perhaps she just wants to protect our custodians from harassment by such animals as President Spencer’s dog. If so, then her intentions are admirable, but let’s just hope she does a better job protecting our custodians than the security custodians do in protecting our co-eds. Or maybe she wants to keep us all from moral decay by eliminating the chance of huggery becoming rampant on the Davidson campus.

Whatever her reasons, her "clean-up job" could achieve the best results by eliminating the dogs which are not owned by Davidson students and which originate in the town of Davidson, not the dorms. If she directed her attentions there, she would encounter most of the difficulty, and also a great number of dogs owned by faculty members such as Dave Fagg and Dr. Spencer.

Another amusing aspect of this edict is just how Mrs. Nicholls intends to enforce her new policy of "law and order." Perhaps she plans something similar to a massive raid led by our harassed custodians, janitors, dog catchers, and supported by...

Some Say The Real Issues Of Davidson Never Change

I was reading through some old, old DAVIDSONIANs the other day. This class of seniors will be the only one left to remember the actual event which I saw recorded in the issue of Friday, September 27, 1968. The occasion was President Spencer’s first formal address to the incoming freshman of the Class of '72. The thing is, Spencer was a freshman of sorts then too. That was his first year in office as president here. We dare not go back as far as when he was a minor functionary in the administration in the early '50s. Or when he was a ROTC Instructor before that.

Here’s something for your information. I just repeat the account as they heard it and saw it then. The story tells itself.

"We cannot be a provincial college. We must try to broaden our outlook through our personnel, both student and faculty. And I am interested in trying to define the responsibility the college has to help in the bootstrap operation for the disadvantaged."

On finding men and money for the Honors College and non-Western studies, Spencer said, "It isn’t easy to find people for this. Non-Western people are particularly difficult to find, particularly competent people. There’s a shortage of them, and they’re in great demand."

Of the dorms, then in bad repair, "We need some sort of renovation—certainly equipment and possibly modification of design—within the limits of the buildings we have now. And that may require more dorm space to make up for any renovation. This is an obvious need."

Always money-minded, Spencer said, "Compare the financial situation of the college today (in 1968) and of a generation ago. Actually, it's a lot better college today (in 1968) than it was then, and the case might be made that it was in more danger then. While we have to watch the dollar, I think Davidson still has a very important function to serve."

On the rumor that he had opposed the Blue Sky Report of yesteryear while he was still a mere trustee, Spencer said, "Not true. I think it was long overdue. Any criticism that I had was really that it did not go far enough."

As for the college’s church commitment, Spencer said, "It doesn't stifle Davidson. The Christian commitment of the college emphasizes such things as concern for persons, a search for truth, and...Openness to the rights and dignity of other individuals. I just don’t see how these things run counter to the values which I believe the vast majority of people at Davidson believe in.”

On student involvement: “We have to remember that people in a college administration or faculty have a continuing responsibility, while no student has a four-year responsibility. It is very difficult to delegate properly absolute authority and control to students who have only temporary responsibilities. But I certainly think students ought to have participation and voice in many areas of college policy.”

Self-scheduled exams were not then a reality. Spencer had this to say on their behalf: “We had them at Mary Baldwin and on the basis of our experience there, I would certainly recommend them. Both students and faculty seem to like it and we had no trouble with it. Everybody testified to the fact that it seemed to lessen exam panic.”

Neither had the Board of Trustees been reorganized, or we might say the deck shuffled and the wildcards thrown out. Spencer had this to say then: “There certainly might be a more effective way to choose Trustees. The board might be a more effective board if it were reconstituted. For example, the variety in the way trustees are chosen, and in the terms they serve often makes an efficient, smooth-running operation difficult.”

Some say time moves slow. Some say the real issues never change. Some say the mills of the gods grind slow, but they grind exceeding fine.

The Davidsonian
January 21, 1972
Page Five

For Dogs, Cats

The Davidson Police and the Mecklenburg County Vice Squad. It could be formulated by the tactical geniuses in our R.O.T.C. department and commanded by our Sergeant Penley. Or maybe she has in mind a bounty system complete with “dead or alive” wanted posters and increasing rewards. Along a more productive line, she may start a work-study job in dog catching with students themselves acting as enforcers. Why if it becomes popular enough the Educational Policy Committee may raise dog catching to academic credit level and use it to replace Dr. Reid’s geography course which is being terminated at the end of this term.

Whatever her methods, it is clear that one way or another Mrs. Nicholls intends to stand as a bulwark against the raging tide of canine infiltration. Regardless of her reasons, Mrs. Nicholls’ time could be better spent in pursuing actual problems rather than in pursuing dogs. There are greater problems in our dorms than dogs’ fleas, and they generally come in the sizes of cockroaches and rats. Our Security Guards could also put their time to better use by protecting our students than in chasing dogs. Besides, the poor guards are so old the chances of them catching any dog are very slim. Here again is a prime example of where Davidson’s administrative priorities lie.

In closing, I hope that Mrs. Nicholls will take to heart what I have said and rescind her edict. If not, then I advise the goldfish owners of Davidson to unite and take a stand against administrative repression before they too end up like the dogs and the S.P.E.’s... off campus.

Gary Corne ‘74
Davidson College

The Campaign Invades Our Dreams

To the Editor:

Being in a unique position of an upperclassman and also living in a freshman dormitory, I believe I am in an excellent position to write a rebuttal to Mr. Fleming. It appears that, though clouded somewhat by references to foreign students and coeducation, the main brunt of Mr. Fleming’s letter is directed toward the failure of the new social system to reach the freshmen.

Mr. Fleming states, “I shudder to think what my freshman year would have been like if it had not been for the upperclassmen I knew.” However, Mr. Fleming as an upperclassman seems not to have met or helped freshmen. Is it that this freshman class has no need of upperclass acquaintances? One knows better. Is it that there are fewer freshmen? Of course not. Is it that there is less upperclass-freshmen contact? With mixed classes, combined IMAC, and freshmen eating on the court, I doubt it. If Mr. Fleming hasn’t met any freshmen it’s because he doesn’t want to, not because of the new social system.

If such attitudes prevail at Davidson, then the quality and quantity of students will dwindle. I, for one, do not believe this will occur. In fact, I believe the new system will be a success by the end of this year. Hopefully, those upperclassmen who befriended Mr. Fleming did so out of a desire for friendship and not as a result of voting among their peers.

In closing, I would say that many freshmen would appreciate it if Vic would help them with their social life and befriend them. I believe also that Mr. Fleming need not worry about freshman halls voting on whether to accept his friendship.

Skip Holcombe ‘73
Davidson College