The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

RUSS MERRITT, DON PARMAN, Editors-in-Chief
JIM PHILIPS, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 7, 1972

An Endorsement

One of the most respected traditions of THE DAVIDSONIAN has been its non-partisan, apolitical stance during student elections. Every past editorship has admirably remained aloof from the muck and slime of campus political campaigns and the personal questions involved in such elections. At this time and with this in mind, however, we feel it necessary to break with editorial tradition and speak out concerning the upcoming elections by endorsing Ralph Peeples for president of the Student Government Association.

To begin with, we emphasize two points. First, it is not our intention to set a journalistic precedent for the newspaper. Each editorship must make its own response to the unique situation and news events it encounters without tradition dictating that response. Second, the opinions we voice are solely those of the editorship and should not be assumed to reflect the views of the rest of the staff or of future newspaper editors.

Student government at Davidson has come a long way in a few years. Beginning with Tom Earnhardt in 1967-68 and moving on through Joe Murphy, Peter Hobbie, Ran Coble, and now Danny Clodfelter, this campus’s student presidents have guided, prodded, dragged, and led student government into a position of relative power, respect, and effectiveness. Therefore, it would be nothing less than tragic for our student government to slide backwards or to stand still in the moving stream of college life due to the election of the wrong man as president. For the SGA President does, after all, dominate and almost dictate the directions that student government takes and the effectiveness with which it moves, and the wrong man at the wheel could cause the whole SGA boat to capsize.

Because of all these factors, we feel it imperative that we endorse Peeples as the best candidate for SGA President. Of the two candidates, only Peeples faces the future. In his work as a class senator, in his tireless efforts with the Peace Coalition, in his responsible service with the YMCA, and in his dedication as a freshman hall counselor, Peeples has proven his administrative abilities, his sensitivity, his concern for the problems of the Davidson student, and his ability as a leader, and nowhere can he be found lacking. We strongly feel that Davidson's student government has the potential to grow into a powerful and effective voice for student concerns and rights, and only with the election of Ralph Peeples can the SGA move in this direction.

The Union Jack

Before we recommence beating what the administration and trustees seem to regard as a very dead horse, we would like to express sincere appreciation to the union officials who have developed an excellent report on the future of the union. Their work has been painstakingly thorough and represented one of the finest reports submitted to Davidson.

Davidson is going to miss its union building next fall, perhaps more than any building except the library or Chambers Building. The plans call for the use of the Guest House as the interim, and we certainly hope that it is just an interim period, union facility. That this raises problems is immediately apparent. Offices for the college’s publications will be located in two houses in Jackson Court (we may have to evict someone there), as will those for student government and the radio station. Despite several large rooms, the Guest House will have very limited facilities for any gathering of over 60 or 70 people. The upstairs is dedicated to office space for the continuing union community. This is not to mention the disappointed guests who may find themselves in a lottery for the one guest bedroom in the Carolina Inn.

The dispersal of the union’s activities across the campus will pose difficulties in organizing a social life on campus. The convocations and commencement, aside from basketball games, will be the only occasions in an incoming freshman’s year here that he may see more than 60 fellow students congregated in the name of the Chambers Maids. It’s hard to be one big family without a house.

CECIL BURNEY

SGA Candidates Receive Comparison Of Differences

Next week a new president of the Davidson student body will be chosen. The President of the student body serves as the Chairman of the Senate, the Student Life Committee, and is frequently called upon to serve as Sam Spencer’s volunteer to show every head of state that he is a friend of the student body. From my years at Davidson, I have seen the SGA President and the candidate who assumed a different role and policy for the SGA. He has been criticized for that stand. This year students have failed in their duty. Each is persuasive and articulate. Each has been involved in student government. This is a great deal. Each has an impressive list of credentials. Each will choose a policy and a direction for the SGA for the coming year. Bill Alexander and Ralph Peeples represent very different points of view. I hope that with my special vantage point, knowing both within the realm of student governmental activities for some time, I can provide all students with a deeper understanding of these differences.

Bill Alexander comes from a traditional family background and a very traditional area. He and his family have great pride in their past, and Bill, in many settings, has consistently chosen very traditional approaches to answering current problems. By doing this, he has followed...status quo line of thinking which is somewhat opposed to change. Practically every time students have suggested changes which would move Davidson into the future, Bill has opposed such changes. The Alexander year as vice-president was characterized mainly by inaction. Much of the positive work begun in the Residence Hall Association before Bill came to office was cast aside and ignored, largely because the bulk of Bill’s time was not spent in improving the quality of life for all students living on campus, but was rather spent in fighting for an off-campus house for the remaining selective SPE national fraternity members. Also, probably because he knew an election was coming up, Bill chose to abstain on many decisions in the student senate, because he knew that his traditional views do not sit well with many students.

The work of Ralph Peeples has also been strongly influenced by his personal character. But it is, I think, a very different character than that of Bill Alexander. Ralph grew up in a very traditional area in Charleston, S. C., but somehow he has developed to-day Davidson. He shows not only an empathy for others but also an encouraging positive orientation for what is to come, an unusual depth of perception about the world around him. He sees positive and joyful aspects of life, but he sees the sorrows and pains of the world around him, too.

When Davidson students decide to cast their vote in this election, they will have a choice between two styles of policy and direction. On the one hand, Bill Alexander can be elected, and the official spokesman for students will be a spokesman for many of the traditions upon which Davidson was founded. In the development of his character, he somehow began to look at the human situations in which he was involved with a determination to do what he could to make life a little better and to change those things which are necessary to change to bring about such improvement. On the other, Ralph Peeples can be elected, and Davidson students will have an even-keeled and directed voice for the future which will speak for different ways of doing things and a chance for Davidson to move out of its past, which has frequently been stagnant.

In work with the Student Government, Ralph has been an initiator of new programs and activities. He has a great deal of energy. He has been deeply concerned about always taking a stand on issues before him and has frequently asked incisive questions that have needed to be asked in important matters. This election is an important one in the life of the Student Government Association and the history of the College, and it is a time in which each person can take a look at himself and decide where he wants his school to go. Ralph's life is marked by his orientation toward the future, and in the present life of Davidson.

TODD HOBBIE

Affluence Divides Undergraduates

Being still possessed by a feeling of Christmas and New Year's cheer, I begin this article with a pat on Davidson's back. I think that Davidson College is one of the better private schools around. Having said this, it is time to come to the point of this column. I have begun to question seriously if there should be such a thing as a private institution of learning.

I am very much opposed to private secondary schools in the United States. I am opposed to them for several reasons. One reason is that private schools tend to separate people according to economic class. Another reason would be that higher quality education is given to the affluent strictly on the basis of ability to pay. In trying to be honest I find little more justification for private schools on the undergraduate level than I do on the secondary school level. The affluent continue to send their kind to the higher quality private schools while the less affluent either don't go to school or go to less expensive state institutions.

Naturally, there are some private schools that are inferior to many public schools on the undergraduate level. But there are many schools like Davidson where students obtain preferential treatment and higher quality instruction basically because of the ability to pay for it. There is a place for schools of the Davidson type for those students who show an unusual desire and ability to learn. This type of student should be placed in a school such as Davidson at a cost no higher than any public institution. Such a student has demonstrated his desire and aptitude and should not be inhibited for monetary reasons. Davidson boasts that this is its present policy but at best this would be dubious.

The ideal situation would be for all schools to be the property of the public. Any person desiring education would be placed in a school suited for his intellectual growth. The best students would be assigned to the best schools strictly on this basis, and all levels of public education should cost the same regardless of the level of quality. Evidently, this is incredibly idealistic. The day that Davidson will become a public institution is a long way off. And until such a day comes it would seem foolish for anyone to go to any but the best schools that they can afford. The evolution of our society away from private schools is an improvement we should strive for.

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters received before Tuesday night will ordinarily be printed that week. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication.