Tenure: ‘Christians Only’
By TODD EADES
Contributing Editor

The question of tenure is forcing the college to review its position as a Christian institution and as an academic institution. Who shall receive tenure under what conditions is the salient question, but the more important question is how the college defines its Christian commitment.

The current debate involves a sentence in the Board of Trustee By-laws which reads, “Any Faculty member given tenure must be an active member of a Christian church." The purpose of this restriction apparently is to sustain the Christian commitment of Davidson College as it is found in the Statement of Purpose, included in the college catalog. The positions taken on this sentence will concern the best way to preserve the college's academic excellence as well as its Christian commitment.

When Samuel R. Spencer Jr. became president in 1969, he established a commission to study Davidson College's church relations. That commission, composed of trustees, faculty, and students, found that “church relatedness" has a negative side for many members of the community, due largely to legal strictures originating in the Board of Trustees. The commission report asks, “Does the Board of Trustees, a large majority of whose members are elected from and by the Presbyteries, represent the church or the college?” Twenty-six of the forty-two members of the Board are elected by and from supporting Presbyteries. Furthermore, the only official church relationship that the Presbyterian Church has to the college is in the election of Trustees.

The report cites the leadership offered by the church and also lists several instances that Davidson College did not respond affirmatively to the recommendations of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. for a number of years. However, the commission strongly recommends, and implicitly assumes throughout its report, that the college maintain its church relationship. Regarding tenure as a means of securing this commitment, the commission recommends “that the formal religious requirements for members of the faculty and administration be deleted." In reaching that conclusion, the commission contacted eight church-related schools which reported no religious restrictions on faculty.

To maintain a Christian commitment, the commission recommends that whoever hires faculty inform prospective professors of the Christian aim of the college and that the college satisfy itself that the prospective faculty member be willing “conscientiously and wholeheartedly to teach in a community having these aims.” The idea that an informal commitment is sufficient is not only suggested in the three-year-old commission report but is supported by many faculty and administrators now. Brown Patterson, Professor of History and an ordained Episcopal priest, believes that the college should “do away with all formal religious requirements for tenure.”

Several professors, including some who did not wish to be quoted on this issue, stressed the need for dialogue and the duty of an academic institution to be open to all opinions. But none questioned the maintenance of the religious commitment of the College. Professor of theology Alexander J. McKelway said that the absence of religious restrictions would be “an expression of the openness, freedom, and security of the Christian commitment of the college." Professor of philosophy Earl R. MacCormac called the rule a “denial of academic freedom” and said the college should seek to develop responsible freedom. Academic Affairs John M. Bevan stated that if the restriction were dropped, the college would not change so much, and that it would be the responsibility of the President and himself to maintain the ingredients of a good community. Bevan stressed the need “to be challenged as well as (See TENURE, p. 19)

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
October 6, 1972

SGA Considers Policy On New Union, Places Coed On Student Life Committee
By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

Tuesday night's SGA Senate meeting was considered “very good" by SGA President Ralph Peeples, as he referred to its clearing up of old items on the agenda and its speed in deliberation. The most significant order of business, according to Peeples, was the proposal to place a

Scott Meets Leaders To Discuss Service
By MIKE TANNER
Asst. Managing Editor

Slater Food Director Ron Scott will meet with the administration and student leaders today to discuss recent claims about inadequacies in the food service. Scott hinted that aPossible solution for a 20-meal plan for interested students could be worked out. “We're not going to say to anyone that he can't get enough to eat at Davidson College. We'll work something out,” Scott said. According to Scott, the present system of paying only for what one eats was instituted on the basis that in the past two years, students have claimed only 63 percent of the meals entitled to them. Also, in response to complaints that one cannot eat as much as last year for the same price, Scott explained that the actual cost of food has risen only slightly but, because of the new meal tickets, those students who eat fewer than 15 meals per week won't be paying to allow other students to eat more than 15 meals per week. “Last year, only the student eating 14 meals per week was consuming exactly what he paid for. The problem here is that those who ate 20 meals per week last year thought that they were able to do so for $600 when they really might have eaten $750 worth of food, all of this at the expense of the light eaters. So our prices have not risen very much,” Scott said. Thus, the key to the new system is the projection that over the year, the average amount of food consumed by the student will be in the 15-meal range; this allows Slater to operate in the black financially and the board figure to remain around $600. “We're trying to keep the board fee down because I don't think the typical student needs to pay much more than the present figure,” said Scott. The Slater people feel that the new system is thus fairer to the individual student but admit that they might have underestimated the number of students eating close to 20 meals per week. Scott implied that perhaps a reversal to the ID card meal ticket might be a possibility, but he made it clear that this was only one of the many possibilities.

A woman on the Student Life Committee in an ex-officio capacity. The motion, brought up by co-ed representative Katie Early, was passed unanimously. In another major consideration, Senate Vice-President Bob Cunningham stressed a need for the Senate to define its position in regard to ideas for new Union facilities. Citing Union Director C. Shaw Smith's present questionnaire asking students for their views on necessary components for a Union, Cunningham expressed an opinion for a building “big enough for future expansion.” Duff Bruce, Assistant to the President, felt that the main concern was not in building a new Union, but other special considerations, such as location, permanency, and relevance to student activities. Final consideration on the Union plans was postponed for further discussion.

MID-MEETING CONFERENCE
Ralph Peeples and Steve Suflas discuss a point of order. Another plan for Senate consideration, introduced by Rob Krebbs, called for a development of the Lake Campus area, notably a proposed $15,000 boathouse and paved entranceway, plus an overall expansion of the Intramural sports program. The plan comes from new Intramural sports director Chip Stone, who seeks to spend most of his annually allotted budget by this November on such projects. A previously tabled motion on the attendance requirements for Senators passed unanimously. Under it, Senate members would be liable for impeachment proceedings for failure of duty, of which attendance is a part. A constitutional amendment also passed unanimously whereby SGA Senators could be recalled by 20 percent of their residential constituency and replaced by a majority vote in make-up elections.

Concerning a faculty committee on the subsidization of football, Cunningham remarked that he considered it “a good idea, but one which might want to wait. After the season would probably be a better time for opinions, when everyone has an idea on the matter,” he continued. Two final items, considered for referral to the Residence Hall Council, had to do with the lack of telephone service in the dorms and the janitorial situation. The latter was especially alluded to by Peeples, who stated that some of the longer-standing custodians were “let go without even compensation” by the college, and that the present janitorial service was wholly inadequate. Peeples reminded Senators of the Student Government Elections to be held Tuesday, Oct. 10. Peeples noted that the date for filing closed at 5 p.m. yesterday. (Staff Photo by Barnes)