(Staff photos by Barnes)

CONCENTRATION ... Dave Weaver reflects the responsibility of the first court position.

Whittle Unveils Thinclads In News-Piedmont Relays

By CHARLIE TERRELL
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcat track team, dominated by freshmen and sophomores, launches its outdoor season tomorrow at Greenville, S.C. in the
News-Piedmont Relays.

Coach Heath Whittle, who has guided Davidson track teams since 1930 and is retiring after this season, is very enthusiastic
about this year’s squad. “We have some very good prospects on the team, and it will be much better balanced
than last year,” explained Whittle.

Two major reasons for Whittle’s enthusiasm are seniors Ray Swetenburg and Tommy Richardson, who each won championships in the 1971
conference winter meet. They did not successfully defend their titles this winter, but they are still counted on as the
big point-makers for the squad.

Swetenburg will participate in no less than five events: the 440-yard relay, triple jump, long jump, high jump, and the
120-yard high hurdles. “Ray is so versatile that he can score well in any of these events,” noted Whittle.

Sprinter Richardson will run the 100 and 220-yard dashes, the 440-relay, and the mile-relay. Richardson has clocked a 9.6 in
the hundred and was the top-ranking sprinter in the conference until slowed by a pulled muscle midway through last season.
Injuries have plagued him throughout his career, and if he escapes the nemesis, bigger things are in store for the
veteran.

The other senior on the squad is veteran distance man Howard Boyd, whose specialties are the one-mile and three-mile runs.
Boyd serves with Swetenburg and Richardson as tri-captain.

A wealth of young talent boosts the fortunes of the thinclads, and Whittle believes that many of the freshmen could
develop into stellar performers. Heading the list of new talent are sprinter Mark Connors and distance runner Rick Bell. “Connors
is coming along nicely in the 440, and he will also help in the 220,” observed Whittle. Bell is the
premier miler on the team, and he will perform in the 880-yard run as well.

Other freshmen counted on by Whittle for added depth are Bob Lautensack in the mile and three-mile, Rick Mullen in
the 880 and possibly the mile relay, Rick Deal in the three-mile, Dave Peaco in the 440 relay and intermediate
hurdles, Steve Still in the intermediate hurdles, and Bob Trumbo in the high hurdles.

The field events should also be very deep for the Cats. Swetenburg anchors the jumping events, and he is joined
by sophomore Tom Case and exchange student Helmut Bernhardt in the triple and long jumps, and by Peaco and Bernhardt
in the high jump.

Whittle is encouraged by the progress of freshman Woody van Meter in the pole vault. “He can do 12’6” now
and he should be able to clear 13’ before too long,” said Whittle.

The shot put will be manned by sophomores Steve Shankweiler and Glenn Mee, and freshman Rick Howdy. Junior Dave Crumpler
is a strong discus man, backed by Shankweiler and Howdy.

“We will be weakest in the javelin,” said Whittle, “but I think Craig Crosswhite, John Davis, and Mee will begin
to show improvement.”

The talented but generally inexperienced Wildcats offer the prospect of a winning season.

The Davidsonian
March 17, 1972
Page Nine

Inexperienced Netters Lose Opening Matches

By TOM AINSWORTH
News Editor

“Lack of experience” and “Too many foolish little errors” were the trademarks attributed to the Wildcat tennis team by Coach
Harry Fogleman as the netmen dropped their opening season matches to Eastern Kentucky and Duke by respectiveScores of 5-4 and
9-0. In last Friday's contest against the Eastern Kentucky club, Dave Weaver dropped his singles match against Bruce Simms in
straight sets, 6-3 and 6-3, and Rick Quinby followed suit with consecutive losses of 6-3 and 6-2. In the other
singles matches, the Cats triumphed in the number two, four, five, and six positions of Bill Allen, Gary Bressler, Bill
DuPont, and Scoot Dimon.

For Whittle, in his 42 years of coaching at Davidson, he has suffered only three losing seasons while compiling a
worksheet of 166 victories, 74 losses, and 2 ties. “William will win the conference easily, because nobody can touch them,”
commented Whittle. “East Carolina and Furman will fight for second and third, and Richmond will probably get fourth because of
their sprinters. I hope that we can place fifth, and we can if our young men get enough experience.”

“We have a good chance at a winning season, and I would love to go out as a winner,” he
concluded.

On this age! How tasteless and ill-bred is it!
Gaius Valerius Catullus, 87-54 B.C.

Our quotes are thought-provoking too. Call and find out what “low net cost” really means.
Hal Mapes
Jim Roy
892-1467
892-1424

ROBERT T. STONE
District Agent.

The doubles matches, and thus the overall win, went to the visitors as all three Davidson teams fell in straight
sets. Weaver and Quinby lost to Geron and Young in sets of 6-4 and 6-3, Allen and DuPont fell to
the team of Simms and Stephenson 6-4 and 7-6, as the Kentucky pair of Greenup and Ballard downed Dimon and
Dorsett by scores of 6-2 and 6-4.

Monday’s meeting with Duke University saw no improvement, however, as all of the matches were taken by the Blue Devils.
In that decision, the only matches not taken in consecutive sets were Dave Weaver's loss to Charlie Benedick of 2-6,
6-3, 2-6 and Bill DuPont’s fall to the Devil’s David Palmer in sets of 3-6, 6-4, and 1-6. As in
the first match of the year, the doubles were swept by the opponents, as the Cat's best showing was Allen
and DuPont's first set win of 7-6 before losing the next two by scores of 2-6 in both.

As a result, Fogleman began to inaugurate a series of drills in varsity practice, designed to improve the team’s confidence
and eliminate costly mistakes. He feels that the exercises have improved the team’s performance enormously, citing Wednesday’s practice as probably
the best of the year. Although himself sidelined by a serious foot injury, Coach Fogleman has nonetheless been present at
all practices, giving valuable assistance to an otherwise inexperienced team. “Potentially, we're going to be all right,” he said.

The netters face a tough schedule ahead, however, with one of the stiffer contests to be faced on Saturday against
a very good Cincinnati team. In regard to Fogleman himself, the doctors say that it will be a couple of
months before he is able to do any exercise on his foot at all, after infecting it by stepping on
a piece of metal. There was even the danger that Fogleman might have lost the foot as a result, but
he has recovered.

... AND POISE

Second court Bill Allen works out his forehand style.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.

THE LITTLE KITCHEN
FINE FOODS
Across from the Hospital
Mooresville, N. C.

DEAL’S RESTAURANT AND GRILL
663-4141
4 Miles North of Davidson
Steaks — Seafood — Plate Lunches
Sandwiches
6 a.m. ’til Midnight
Closed Monday
