LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
November 17, 1972
Page Five

Black Students’ Proposals Defended

To the Editor:

There was a time not so long ago when a letter such as that written by Thom Redding to the editor would have been discounted as the product of a racist and ignorant alumnus. But recently, too many students have been wondering aloud what the problem with the “colored boys" is to let the letter go without reply.

To begin with, in commenting from Germany of all places, Thom has not followed his own advice - to open his eyes to see what we have. The basic assumption in luring black students to Davidson has been that there would be no tension in an environment where everyone is treated equally. But to be black and be treated as an equal in a white world is inherently discriminatory. For instance, our library has more books on Robert E. Lee than on the whole of black history, and three times as many books on Nathan Bedford Forrest and the KKK as on Martin Luther King Jr. Further, the social life of black students is never more blatantly ignored than when they are smilingly overlooked or asked if they are going home when a mixer is being planned. With the exception of ROTC and a handful of courses, everything taught at Davidson is white-oriented. For Woody WASP and the SAE's (standard average Europeans) the distinction is not seen, thanks to our fine Southern upbringing. Every grievance raised by the BSC exhibits prior thought and work with the administration. I wish Davidson would heed their grievances. We need more black students. We need them if for no other reason than to make understanding a more universal virtue of the Davidson gentleman.

Woody Connette '74
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The reaction of the student body upon publication of the BSC’s demands upon the College was rather astonishing to me. I had never seen such apathy and equanimity among young people that have so much in common as in this place. I believe that we as students have at least the common duty of backing fellow classmates that are fighting for a fair cause, for something that everybody is entitled to---human respect and recognition as individuals. But to read the letter presented by Thomas Redding in the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, which was the only kind of student response of any kind, was rather disappointing.

First of all, Mr. Redding is actually implying (even though he condemned the BSC’s separatist tendencies) the doctrine of ‘separate but equal’. His remarks such as: ‘They've never had it so good’; ‘They have a major advantage over the rest of the community because they've got so much in common’; ‘The financial opportunities are so good at Davidson for them’, etc. These, along with some others in his letter, show the general materialistic tendency of the American society and it seems to imply that ‘they should be happy with what they have because it is better than what they had before.’ Obviously, Mr. Redding did not think that recognition, respect, acceptance, spiritual non-violence, and integration can be the best antidotes to this problem. He even went as far as saying ‘I wish I had it so bad’. So much nonsense it's hard to understand, because I think that neither Mr. Redding nor I have the slightest idea what it means to be Black. Moreover, the student body’s response was limited also to a few discussions at the Hub and with the silly conclusion that it was actually the BSC’s problem.

Thirdly, the demands placed by the BSC upon the college are certainly well-founded and very fair. However, I am not so sure if some of them are necessary or would even work. For example: having a Black in the administration would probably be of little value because I seriously doubt that it will reduce the amount of red tape typical of the administration. Furthermore, a Black studies program with the kind of emphasis demanded can certainly be done without because first of all I think that if the Black students concentrate very much on it, it is not the kind of program that will provide them with the analytical ability necessary for their future professional lives and the integration of their people with the rest of the country. I would also like to urge the BSC to make an effort towards integration, because the only way I think they are going to get recognition is by working hard, assuming responsibilities, becoming involved and active in the community with little regard to skin tone, because once you have recognized yourselves you can easily be recognized by others, too.Understand that some of the black students are planning to leave if their demands are not met. I suggest that more will be accomplished if you stayed and helped to close the gap that is apparently separating you from the rest of the community. To the rest of the community, I would like to say that everybody would be so much more benefited if we granted each other the individual recognition and respect we are all entitled to. Your future and that of your country would be safer if full social integration could be achieved. There are rough times to come and it is up to the individual to start working up towards the understanding of his fellow countrymen. I think that you do not have any other choice because after all, in the words of the late Martin Luther King, Jr.: "We must learn to live together like brothers, or perish together like fools."

Carlos Arturo Sanchez Rendon, '73
Davidson College

---

Outside Perspective
By LEX VEAZEY

Students Raise $276,824 for Scholarships

Four full-time students have raised $276,824 for Albion College scholarships. The student effort, known as Project 250, began in September 1971. During the following months, the students traveled 12,000 miles and contributed 1200 man-hours at no pay. The four Albion students kicked off their fund drive with a series of four $100-a-plate dinners. More than $41,000 was raised. Next, the students talked with 20 charitable foundations, bringing over $126,000. Personal calls to 200 individuals and corporations brought in another $161,000. A mail campaign, including a drawing and free trip to the Bahamas, secured $8,000 from alumni and parents.

---

Basis of Tenure Should Be Teaching

A special University of Wisconsin committee to study faculty tenure criteria has recommended that "teaching, as one of the criteria for granting tenure, must be given renewed emphasis, with systematic evaluation of colleagues during the probationary years." This recommendation includes classroom visitation, assessment of teaching techniques and effectiveness, and student evaluations. The committee explained that the present tenure system provides that the probationary faculty member has six years to prove himself worthy of tenure. The committee reported that it found little evidence that tenure protects the incompetent. The committee further stated that "incompetence is proper cause for dismissal or nonretention," and it strongly endorsed annual review of competence and performance of all faculty members.

---

Bumgardner’s Metaphysical Paintings Are Unconvincing
A REVIEW By GARY GARVIN Staff Writer

I was not convinced and was glad to find somebody back me up on this. I am referring to the current exhibit of James Bumgardner at the Stowe galleries. Last Monday Professors Houchens and Jackson held a slide discussion of the recent works of this nationally known artist. Houchens showed slides of his earlier works and related them to the abstract expressionist movement of the '50s and '60s. These revealed an intimate and highly emotive relationship between the artist and thick, free applications of paint. The decline of this movement was associated with a marked change in Bumgardner’s output. Houchens related his current works to the metaphysical tricks of Magritte. These works show an ascetic use of media and composition. In most of his drawings and paintings, Bumgardner juxtaposed against a simple three-dimensional space a number of surprising effects. In some of these rooms he sets up oceanographic expanses, in others, dirt and moonscapes. Having set up this room, he then proceeds in several works to destroy the linear perspective illusion of space. In some, the back panel is given predominant attention so that it projects into the foreground. In others, thin smears spread over the surface, not confined by geometric lines. One drawing utilizes a collage of thick paper sections, which break up the spatial illusion into a flat plane design.

Jackson's prime objection to this show (in favor of Bumgardner's earlier works) is that the artist works with a style that he does not fully understand, nor approach with the sincerity he showed earlier. Further, the artist draws from current influences and sources, but doesn't add significantly to their development. For example, as Jackson pointed out, actually putting dirt in a room has been done before (and also in painting—the recent "Buried Expectations"). Water has been much more effectively placed in a spatial environment by Hopper. If Bumgardner is after some kind of metaphysical transplantation (and perhaps he isn’t), then I don't think these works prove to be effective. For example, in one painting he floats a nude and table and chairs in the sky. The objects, the nude especially, lack a conciseness and physical presence to make this a believable proposition. The sky is essentially non-ethereal, and no sufficient relationship is drawn between it and the objects. His water and dirt/lunar grounds in his other works are similarly unconvincing.