Vol. LXIII, No. Two
The Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
September 21, 1973

Spencer To Announce New Director
By MIKE TANNER
Executive Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. will announce the appointment of a new Athletic Director during the Opening Convocation today.
Spencer’s address, entitled “The Year in Prospect,” will also include a call for action with regard to the college’s athletic
program, an announcement concerning the outcome of the last fiscal year, and an outline of needed physical facilities such as
new housing, a union, a field house, and art and science facilities.

“The announcement of the Athletic Director appointment is significant in that it involves the entire college constituency: students, faculty, administration,
and alumni,” Spencer said. “Our campus is very sports-conscious; almost everyone I've talked with is concerned that we build a
more balanced athletics program,” he said. “The announcement of the Athletic Director, therefore, is very timely and should be of
interest to those connected with Davidson.”

Committee Reforms Governance
By TODD EADES
Associate Editor

(Ed Note: This is the first in a series dealing with the whole area of Governance. This installment focuses on
the history of the problem.)

Quietly, Davidson is moving towards a major alteration of its governance system. The Campus Governance Committee is preparing recommendations to
the Trustees to establish a new college governmental system to replace an old, unsatisfactory system: the present one.

Trustee REFUND

The North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC PIRG) will make good on its offer to refund the $3 each
student paid in the comprehensive fee. Students desiring a refund should visit the comptroller's office during the upcoming week. See
NC PIRG story on page 3.

The initiative in establishing the committee was due to concern over communications problems among campus groups, the cumbersome student government
structure, and chairman Walter Lingle’s personal interest in the field of campus governance. The committee was welcomed by the major
campus groups, who expressed general dissatisfaction with the present system and agreed that governance should be by shared authority among
the major groups.

The Governance Committee met seven times dealing with problems of student conduct and produced the current Student Conduct regulations. This
committee of one Trustee, one administrator, one faculty member, and one student was expanded at the eighth meeting in November,
1971 to three representatives of each group and began to deal with campus governance.

Spencer called upon the college to begin a search for an athletic director to replace Tom Scott, who will retire
June 31, 1974. A search committee composed of representatives of alumni, trustees, faculty, administration, and students was established and interviewed
candidates throughout the summer. Approximately 40 candidates from all parts of the country applied for the job.

“The committee interviewed a number of excellent candidates from both within the college and without,” Spencer said. “Any one of
them would have made a good director. The committee felt overwhelmingly, however, that because of his combination of talents and
experience, the man recommended is the one for the job.”

With regard to the issue of athletics, the President said he will outline the principles on which he believes a
broader and stronger college should be based, including a suggested plan for a re-directed football program. Spencer said he will
also report on the financial status of the college during the last fiscal year.

On the issue of the Union and other physical facilities, Spencer said he will report on the results of a
committee which investigated different locations suitable for a Union. He also said that he will speak to the problem of
other facilities needed in such areas as athletics, the fine arts, the sciences, and housing.

“While we may agree on the many things that are needed at Davidson,” he said, “we must agree on needs
for the next few years.”the committee’s deliberations (expected to last at least another year) is having at least one adverse
effect: major proposals are held in abeyance as modifications of the present governance system have virtually ceased pending the establishment
of new rules. At this eighth meeting, the faculty, represented by their Executive Committee, declined to designate two additional members
until President Spencer’s return from India. All groups agreed that the general approach would be that of shared authority by
students, faculty, and administration. The faculty later named Alexander McKelway (Religion) and Earl MacCormack (Philosophy) to join George Abernethy (Philosophy),
Trustee members John Miller, William Muliss, Dean Dickson Phillips, Walter Lingle, Chairman; administrators Vice President for Academic Affairs John M.
Bevan, Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell, and Dean of Students Will Terry; and student representatives Danny
Clodfelter '72, Richard Wilson '73, and John Hornickel '75. The present student members are Hornickel, Bo Phillips '74, and Blain
Butner '75. Most agreements of the committee at this stage are necessarily tentative but show the general movement towards the
ideas to be embodied in the committee’s recommendations. All campus governance documents, including the Revised Trustee Bylaws, are acknowledged the
existence of (See COMMITTEE, page 3).

Other issues which will be covered in the speech include the current status of governance on the campus, the recent
discussions with regard to the college's Christian commitment, and the needs of coeducation. The speech will be part of the
Opening Convocation which formally signals the beginning of a new academic year and honors the members of the class of
1974 as they become candidates for the baccalaureate degree. The convocation will feature a formal academic procession with faculty and
seniors in full academic regalia. It will also include the awarding of the Alumni Medal to the freshman of last
year with the highest grade point average, and the awarding of the Thomas Jefferson Award, given annually to an outstanding
professor. Also at the ceremony, two honorary degrees will be awarded. Receiving the Doctor of Science Degree will be Dr.
P. (See SPENCER, page 8).

(Staff Photo By Lawrimore)

TWO MILLION Director Gramley makes announcement.

Reynolds Foundation Pledges $2 Million For Endowment

By BRUCE CORSER Managing Editor

The Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation of Winston Salem, N.C. revealed on June 22 that it will give Davidson College $2
million by 1977. In 1964, the Foundation pledged $5 million in unrestricted endowment to Davidson to be delivered over an
undetermined time span, in incremental amounts. This last gift represents the final installment. The grant, one of the largest ever
made to Davidson, was announced at a luncheon in Charlotte for leaders of the state-wide fund-raising Queens-Davidson Campaign which is
still underway. Dr. Dale Gramley, executive director of the Foundation, announced the gift on behalf of Foundation President Smith Bagley
of Winston Salem.

“The gift is made in recognition of the importance of private support to higher education, particularly fine independent colleges like
Davidson,” Gramley said. His brief speech stressed the importance of maintaining private foundations. Gramley was critical of government taxation stating
that “we must be alert to see that private causes which serve the public welfare are not weakened or destroyed
by increasingly restrictive and punitive tax legislation.” Reynolds funds at Davidson support faculty salaries, library purchases, and several Reynolds Distinguished
Lectures each year. Since the grant is an unrestricted one, the decision as to use is Davidson's. C. David Cornell,
Vice-President of Finance and Development, labeled this kind of gift as “the life-blood of the college.” The 37-year-old Reynolds Foundation
was established by the surviving brother and two sisters of Zachary Smith Reynolds, youngest child of R. S. Reynolds, founder
of the Reynolds Tobacco Company. The Foundation’s avowed purpose is to support charitable causes, particularly those related to education and
health. Graeme Keith '54, chairman of the Queens-Davidson Campaign, expressed gratitude for the Foundation’s continued support.
