She Davidsonian September 14, 1973 Page Five

‘Lil Hussies’ Hurt Madam Davidson
By STEVE CANTERBURY

Just twenty miles north of Soanns House of Madam Davidson. The Madam has for decades taken the young men’s money,
their time, their energy. She has given them in return a few brief moments of pleasure and a wealth of
well-learned lessons. In short, she has introduced them to life without preparing them for life. I, too, have generously paid.

To The Editor

I am directing this letter to certain misconceptions which arose out of the interview with me which appeared in the
DAVIDSONIAN's final issue last year. I would particularly like to clarify my relations with Smith’s Nurseries, about which several remarks
appeared out of context in the interview. Landscaping is a rewarding enterprise, but it is a physically difficult business. To
be successful, one needs to find good employees who are willing to constantly work hard for 10 hours a day.

Violinist Wolfgang Roth and Harpist Elizabeth Roth will present a free recital in Hodson Hall at the Cunningham Fine Arts
Center on Monday at 8:15 p.m. Works to be played include Corelli's “Sonata No. 12,” Telemann’s “Fantasy No. 2,” Krumpholtz’s
“Sonata No. 98,” Hank Bading’s “Cavatina” and the Saint-Saens “Fantasy Op. 124.” Mrs. Roth will solo in the Prokofiev “Prelude”
in C and Salzedo’s “Fraicheur.” The Roths appeared in concerts in Germany and Holland this summer.

Beginning Sunday at the Mint Museum of Art, there will be an exhibit of British paintings on loan from the
North Carolina Museum of Art. The show will continue through November 25. Also at the Mint Museum will be a
collection of paintings and drawings by Katheryn Kortheur. The exhibition is lodged in the Round Gallery and will continue until
Oct. 14.

The Festival in the Park will begin in Freedom Park Tuesday featuring Arts and Crafts, exhibits, demonstrations, and concerts. The
Festival will run until Sept. 23. Hours are weekdays from 6 to 10 p.m. and Saturdays and Sundays from 2
p.m. to 9 p.m. Admission is free.

Uriah Heep will be presented in concert at the Charlotte Coliseum on Sunday at 8 p.m. This is an event
that few music buffs will want to miss.

The Madam. I, too, have spent many a night moaning and groaning, sighing and crying, learning my lessons within her
establishment. But when I returned this year the red light was turned off, the house was dark. All was unusually
quiet. Only the branches creaked from the never-ceasing wind; and the crickets sounded their awkward A-.

I slowly moved towards the house and onto the porch. The door was open. I cautiously stepped inside. All was
very dark. From the darkness a voice sounded: “So yer’ve cum back, eh?”

“Is that you, Madam Davidson?” I asked, quite startled.

The light flashed on. Lying upon a sagging couch was the Madam. She wore her usual red and black house
coat. Bulging beneath the robe was her hopelessly obese stomach. Her fallen breasts resembled two well-worn pillows. They fell down
to both sides of her enormous belly. Her face was overly full. The make-up was caked three layers thick onto
her puffy cheeks. The lipstick was smeared so that it seemed she had two upper lips. She had plucked her
eyebrows and penciled two uneven lines in their place. She wore a blonde wig that fell for-

The old lady held a bottle of gin in her right hand. In her left, she held the glass. “Sit
down,”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

she commanded. “Why are the lights out? Where are all the people? What's...”

“Shaddup un lissin’,” she interrupted. “Aincha heard? Wimin are a comin’ this year. Wimin! Those li’l hussies ull be a-livin’
right uner mah nose. They gotta lotta nerve! An’ I don’ mean twinny or forty like before. It’s over a
hunert! A hunert young purty things all over the place. fat and ugly. They ain't attracted to me like they
use to be. They'll jest steer a-clear a—”

The Madam took a long drink and refilled her glass. Her tears danced a quick, splashing jig upon the surface
before drowning within gin. With each fleeting dance died a bit of an old tradition that had been so keenly
kept by the Madam. I attempted to console her but nothing occurred to me to say. After all, she was
absolutely right. The girls were far more appealing than what she had to offer.

(See ‘Li'l Hussies’, Page 12)

---

Faculty Column

Query Defies Relevance

By LOCKE WHITE

Beware, beware of judging prematurely how relevant a proposed research project be. A fascinating case in point is the best
known of Buford Price, who will receive an honorary degree at the convocation next week. Both the main ideas and
many applications of his work are easy for nonscientists to understand. (He will tell something about his work in a
general-audience public lecture at 5 o’clock next Thursday afternoon in Dana 114.)

Since one idea so often leads to another, it is often difficult to specify when and where a particular investigation
really started. But I think it accurate to start the story of Price and two associates with their hope of
learning something about nuclear processes in the history of the earth and even of space. With an idea that is
incredibly simple in retrospect, they learned to locate and identify specific events like the splitting of uranium atoms, even though
those events occurred billions of years ago.

Now what relevance, pray tell, has such ancient history? The relevance arises out of the simple way they discovered for
identifying not only those ancient events but much more recent ones, too. When Price’s group started, people knew already that
fast-moving, electrically charged particles like the fragments of splitting uranium produce permanent local disturbances in the regular arrangements of the
atoms in crystals they pass through. They leave tracks, that is. But the tracks could be seen only by electron
microscopy, an extremely slow and inefficient process. Was there a way to make the tracks visible to ordinary microscopes? Price
and his associates found one. That was their basic discovery, a means of “etching” the tracks and making them much
easier to see. The process has a lot in common with developing photographic film, by which subtle and invisible changes
in a negative become easy to see.

The key idea was probably to recognize the desirability of enhancing the visibility of radiation-damage tracks. Given that goal, most
reasonably competent chemists would probably have predicted the idea to be feasible, at least in principle. They would have expected
the structural damage along a track to make that part of the solid material dissolve more easily in the right
solvent, if you could find it. Sure enough, Price and his associates found appropriate solvents for selectively dissolving the damaged
material around the tracks in a variety of solid materials, including mica, plastics, and glasses. The result is long narrow
tubes, easily visible, surrounding the damaged tracks.

As soon as the etching technique was discovered, it has been applied to a very wide range of problems. Some
are the purest kind of fundamental science, not at all obviously “relevant,” but some are highly relevant by anybody's standards.
As just one example of the applied, relevant category, consider the case of Nuclepore filters. They are made by the
track-etching process. It is thought—but not yet proven—that this selective filtration may some day make it possible to detect cancers
early enough to cure them.

Back to the question of relevance, I hold that trying to detect incipient cancer would ever have thought of devising
the track-etching process. Fortunately, earlier fundamental research in radiation damage, geology, and even cosmology had made Nuclepore filters ready when
they were needed. If the research is fundamental enough, the relevance will take care of itself.
