Bowman Gray Accepts Nine Early Applicants
By ALEC HOON
Editor-in-Chief

Bowman Gray Medical School has just announced the acceptance of seven sophomores and two juniors under its early acceptance program.
No names of those accepted have been officially released yet because, as Davidson pre-med advisor James Frederickson explained, “Dr. Arcine
Johnson (of Bowman Gray) has not yet mailed out the letters of acceptance to those picked.”

“They should, however, be in the mail within the next several days,” he indicated.

Frederickson indicated that those who are anxious to find out whether or not they have been selected should come by
his office in Dana Science Building where he will inform them. “The Bowman Gray selection committee has urged many of
those who weren’t accepted under this early decision plan to apply again under the regular admissions program,” Frederickson noted. “The
committee felt that there were others well qualified whom the committee just could not select because of numbers limitations.”

Frederickson indicated that the nine chosen will have several weeks in which to make their final decision whether or not
to accept. Those who do will continue to study at Davidson and complete the requirements necessary for graduation. They will
be freed of the worries of grades, although they must maintain a good academic record.

“For those who accept, there will be several opportunities open to them at Bowman Gray while they are still at
Davidson. There will be opportunities for hospital research and work over the summer months. Those accepted will also be able
to take some of the basic medical school science courses at Bowman Gray while still attending Davidson,” Frederickson noted.

“This program is important to both Davidson and Bowman Gray. It can serve the best interests of both well,” he
said.

Davidson College is presenting a “community interest symposium” entitled “Health Care Crisis in America” this week. Three nationally known speakers
representing various viewpoints have been invited to participate. Yesterday at 10 a.m., Bernard T. Hurley Jr., vice president of the
group department of Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company, discussed “The Role of Private Enterprise in Health Care Delivery.” Hurley
is a member of the National Health Council where he is chairman of the Hospital Relations Committee. Hurley's company has
been instrumental in making the role of private insurance companies more effective in the area of health care.

EPC Okays Language Course
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Asst. Managing Editor

A proposal for a more extensive language program for Davidson College was approved Tuesday by the Education Policy Committee. Vice
President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan submitted the proposal which is to begin next fall. The program, which will
include those languages not usually offered in the college curricula, will be supervised and coordinated by an appointed director. Foreign
exchange students at Davidson and professors from here and from other schools will tutor participants in the program.

“The primary goal of self-instructional language programs is the basic mastery of oral skills equivalent to one or more years
of formal instruction,” stated Bevan in his proposal. He hopes that Davidson can work with the Center for Critical Languages
at the State University of New York at Buffalo. Almost 50 colleges and universities are enrolled in the program.Now Bevan
emphasized that the course would take at least as much time as a regular class. Since the program is done
almost entirely by self-instruction, students will have to exercise a great deal of self-discipline. Students will be selected by a
screening process consisting of the Modern Language Aptitude Test, a review of previous language study performance, recommendations from teachers, advisors,
and counselors, and finally a personal interview. Bevan does not expect an overwhelming reaction to the program. “I would anticipate
six or eight fellows really working,” he commented. The Vice-President added that he hoped the program would “dovetail” into an
intensive summer program. Students would be expected to buy or rent a small cassette tape recorder which they could use
instead of having to spend so much time in the Language Lab. This would eliminate the need for upkeep of
tapes and handling of materials. Tutors recruited from among the foreign exchange students at Davidson will work with participants for
10-15 hours per week. In return for their services, they will receive between $2.50 and $3.00 per one-hour tutorial session.
Also, native speakers from the general Davidson vicinity may be used. An unusual aspect of the program is the methods
of testing proposed. Students may visit their examiner on his home campus, or the examiner can do the traveling. Another
possibility is for individual tests to be given via long-distance telephone. Among the several languages suggested for the program are
basic and intermediate Japanese. There seems to be little opposition to the Self-Instructional Language program. “I don’t see any major
problem,” said Bevan.

The Davidsonian
March 30, 1973
Page Three

At 3 p.m., Dr. Edward R. Annis presented a lecture entitled “AMA's Prescription: Medicredit.” Annis is a former president of
the American Medical Association (AMA) as well as the present chairman of the AMA Speaker's Bureau. Annis has engaged in
television debates with Sen. McNamara (D-Mich.), Sen. Javits (R-N.Y.), Sen. Humphrey (D-Minn.), and Reuther of the United Auto Workers. He
has also appeared on “Face the Nation.” Both Hurley and Annis are receiving no honorarium for their part in the
Symposium. Speaking at 8 p.m. Thursday was Rep. Martha W. Griffiths (D-Mich.). Ms. Griffiths, the first woman to ever sit
on the House Ways and Means Committee, is a co-sponsor along with Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) of the Health Security
Bill proposing a comprehensive national health care insurance plan for all Americans. A panel discussion Friday will consider “Health Care—A
Right or a Privilege?” at 10 a.m. in Hodson Hall. Panelists will be Annis, Hurley, and Donald Hayes, chairman of
the Department of Community Medicine at Bowman Gray Hospital. Howard B. Arbuckle II, director of alumni relations and a member
of the symposium's planning committee, noted, “We hope very much that any interested person within driving distance of Davidson, including
citizens, people in insurance and health care professions, and any others will join us as we examine this very timely
topic of concern to all Americans.” Funds for the symposium were contributed by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation and the
Davidson College Union.

WHERE: SPRING SPECTACULAR
April 13-14

FRIDAY 8:15 P.M. JOFFREY II BALLET
Our most important artist series program this year. An outstanding performing group that you won't want to miss. In Love
Auditorium.

SATURDAY BEER PARTY
A giant blast out on the baseball field with rock groups, athletic (softball, volleyball, etc.) contests, and FREE BEER.

SATURDAY 8 P.M. CONCERT-FOCUS
Fantastic new Dutch rock group with a great album (#18 on Billboard’s charts) “Moving Waves.” Admission is $1 for DC
students & $2 for the general public. In Love Auditorium.
