Page Two, April 13, 1973

The Davidsonian

Senate Endorses N.C. PIRG, Receives Governance Report

By HARRIETT HODGES
News Editor

The Senate endorsed the Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) for the Davidson campus in its Tuesday night meeting. The motion
calls for deletions of several sections and addition of a clause making the chancellor serve as its treasurer. Voting on
the revision will take place in the next Senate meeting.

The Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) is an action group to represent student interests. Students working to form the Davidson
chapter of PIRG aim to promote student involvement at state and local levels in areas such as consumer protection and
environmental quality.

A provision for one senator to be elected from among female students would be eliminated. Another part of the amendment
would allow election of the SGA president and vice-president from either the rising junior or senior class.

There was also a discussion with Meredith Hall, Davidson psychologist, about encounter weekends. Hall emphasized that he could not do
the encounter groups without student support. "If this is not what you want to be involved in, I don't want
to try to sell it to you," Hall said. "I agreed to hold these groups, but I didn't agree to
round up students from the dorms."

In other business, the group appropriated $85 to help cover expenses of Sen. Sam Ervin's visit to the Davidson campus
on Wednesday.

PIRG would have a $2 fee increase for all students. Any student not wishing to support the group could get
a refund.

John Hornock reported to the Senate on the meeting of the Governance Committee. "For the first time we got consensus
to let students attend faculty meetings. This is a step in the direction of having students involved in some aspects
of decision-making," Hornock said.

Although the trustees have not yet taken action, the performance on the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) by Davidson students
has been notable. So far this year, 75 students have taken the LSAT, but the number is expected to rise
before the end of the year.

Davidson Students Lead State In Putnam Math Competition

By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

Davidson mathematics students led the state and ranked high in the Southeast in the 33rd annual William Lowell Putnam Mathematical
Competition this year. The test, which involved 1,681 students from 322 colleges and universities in the U.S. and Canada, was
given in December.

"We were most pleased with the performance of the students, especially that of junior Pete Kyle, who ranked third in
the Southeast and 111th nationally," said Professor of Mathematics Ben Klein. Kyle is presently in Marburg, Germany, on the Junior
Year Abroad Program.

Other Davidson students taking the test were seniors Jeffrey Allender and Philip Drake, and juniors Frank Farmer and William.

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors:
BOB HOWELL, TOM AINSWORTH

Contributing Editors:
BRUCE MALOY, BETSY ALEXANDER, MIKE TANNER, MARY HOBBIE

Sports Editors:
HUGH MOORE, JIM SITTERSON, JIM PAULSEN, GORDON WIDENHOUSE, RICHARD ROMEYN

Assistant Managing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER, STEVE BALKCOM, MARK DEATON, JOHN LEMMON, CHARLIE SHEPHERD, PAUL MITCHELL

Technical Assistant:
BILL ELLETT

Assistant Features Editor:
VAL VAN HORN

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Advertising Manager:
RICH SMITH

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARKRAGUONA, CLIFF KIKK, TOM BRUCE, MIKE RAMSEY, JOE EARLE, PHIL STIKES, MILES WARD

Circulation:
GRAY WILSON, RICKY BELL

News Editor:
HARRIETT HODGES

Photographers:
JIM JERNIGAN, MARK CONNORS, ROB PETERSON, BOB WETZEL, ROB STRAND

Contributors this week:
Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Vic Fleming, John McElveen, Charles Slagle, Francis Townsend, Paul Weich

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate $5.00.Higgins, Britt Lowry, and
David Reid, and sophomores Mark Guyer, Charles Huller, and Robert Lautensack. Seven of the Davidson students ranked in the top
1000, and four ranked in the top 500, according to Klein. “No other North Carolina institution had more than two
contestants in the top 300.”

Discussing the role of the Mathematics department in the test results, Klein said, “I feel that this test reveals the
quality of the students themselves as opposed to the department. The credit should definitely go to the students."

The Putnam Competition is usually an accurate indicator of future success in the field of mathematics. “In the past, the
list of the people who have won the competition could serve as an honor roll for distinguished mathematicians. It is
a distinguished contest for distinguished people,” remarked Klein.

In preparation for the test, Davidson students had only one short orientation session which dealt with a discussion of the
type of problems to be tested on. According to Klein, “Such schools as MIT and Cal Tech pick their top
students and put them through intensive preparation for the test.” Klein is optimistic towards the future success of Davidson in
the annual competition. “Only two seniors from Davidson participated this year; all the others were juniors or sophomores. This should
result in even better rankings next year,” he predicted.

LSAT seems to be better this year. Rough figures indicate that two-thirds of the students scored over 550 and one-half
scored over 600 on the LSAT,” Minter said. Last year, of the 45 seniors who applied to law school, 35
were accepted, which meant that the admission rate of Davidson students was better than 70 percent. This also means that
one out of every seven Davidson seniors is attending Law School after graduation.

According to statistics of the Law School Admission Testing Center, there will be approximately 120,000 LSAT candidates competing for less
than 36,000 positions in law schools this year. These figures are in sharp contrast to those for 1962, which show
that 26,000 candidates were trying for over 18,000 openings.

In order to help advise students about law school requirements and a legal career, a pre-law program is in operation
at Davidson. At present, 150 upperclassmen and 77 freshmen indicate law as an occupational choice. Besides counseling, the Pre-Law program
has offered a series of meetings with members of the legal profession who discuss career opportunities and experiences in the
various fields of law.

“Pre-law curriculum and training cannot be subject to as much direction and control as is true of pre-medical education, where
medical schools are more precise in their requirements,” said Minter. He pointed out that law schools do not require interviews,
and that they encourage taking a broad range of courses. “Pre-law advisers must deal with each student as an individual
situation, and seek to guide him in his planning in the light of his individual interests and in combination with
the type of legal education he might be seeking,” said Minter.

Among the 75 students who have taken the LSAT, there are 21 Political Science majors, 18 English majors, 16 History
majors, seven Economics majors, and 13 students who are majoring in some other field. Serving as pre-law advisers in addition
to Minter are Professor of History Malcolm Lester, Professor of Economics Randall R. Kincaid, and Professor of Education William B.
Hight.

Quips And Cranks Debuts In Fall With Traditional Style
By PAUL WELCH
Staff Writer

The Quips and Cranks is alive and well, and should arrive in September, according to yearbook editor Ron Conoley. Conoley
said that the 1972-73 issue of Quips and Cranks should be available for on-campus distribution on or about the seventh
of September, 1973. The fall publication date for this year’s annual was decided upon because, as Conoley and next year’s
editor Jeff George both observed, it was felt that students would get “more for their money's worth” if spring 1973
activities were included in this year's “book.” If the yearbook were to be published in the spring, spring sports and
other events could not appear in it, indicated Conoley. Graduating seniors' yearbooks will be mailed to them at their last
known addresses.

Conoley warned students not to expect too much in the way of innovation from this year's annual; budget cuts have
necessitated a return to the traditional yearbook format, as contrasted with the unusual folder-type format used in the 1971-72 book.
“There will be a big attempt made to involve more students in the production of the ‘74 yearbook,” said George
when asked about possible changes. Next year’s editor Jeff George and his business manager, Bob Stowe, are already planning the
next annual, which should come out in September, 1974. “We also plan to make more extensive use of copy and
captions, and to use color development of a theme which I can't tell you about yet,” he said.
