November 30, 1973

She Davidsontan

How GM is responding to the energy problem

Over a year ago, we asked our plant engineers to establish an energy conservation program to cut waste, improve utilization,
and generally increase the effective use of our energy resources.

In our plants, we're instituting programs to salvage oil and other combustible materials that were once thought to be waste
materials of the manufacturing process. Then we're using those former waste materials to fire boilers in some plants, and in
others, we're cleaning the oil and selling it to local power generating stations. It’s a method that has been tried
and tested. It works. It’s even economical.

A system developed by General Motors engineers for “scrubbing” the sulfur dioxide out of coal smoke is moving at an
accelerated pace. As the technology is proved out, we're making it available to anyone who can use it. There are
large deposits of coal in the United States that will become immediate substitutes for oil when we can make sulfur-bearing
coal an environmentally acceptable fuel.

We are working toward improving the gas mileage in the cars we design and build. Wind tunnel experiments, weight reduction
programs, and major programs for the development of more efficient engines are all being pushed ahead.

And we are preparing ourselves to satisfy any increased future consumer demand for smaller, more energy-efficient engines and cars.

Properly utilized, mass transportation systems are also highly efficient users of energy. GM is engaged in major research and product
development programs to improve bus transportation, the most flexible, easiest, and quickest to implement of mass transportation systems. Those programs
include the design of buses, new methods for the efficient operation of buses on reserved or exclusive lanes into and
through downtown areas or central business districts, and the automated control of rubber-tired transit vehicles on special guideways. Long-range plans
for mass transportation developed by GM were displayed in Washington at Transpo 72.

In addition to building standard rail commuter diesel locomotives, we have initiated efforts to produce locomotives powered only by electricity.
GM, over many years, has done creative research which has been utilized by government agencies and transit operators in improving
public transit. As urban transportation systems are designed and approved by the various levels of government, GM will be ready
to build the hardware.

Energy can also be conserved by the more efficient use of the cars and trucks now on the road. It
is in everyone's interest to get maximum gas mileage by maintaining cars and trucks in good order, avoiding excessive speeds
and quick starts, and by sharing the ride whenever convenient and practical. For instance, driving at 50 mph rather than
at 70 mph could increase gas mileage by about 20%. We are taking steps to remind our customers of these
good driving practices.

GM is determined to do its full share in the resolution of the energy problem.

We also pledge our complete support for all reasonable government efforts to increase available energy and maintain maximum consumer choice.

General Motors Transportation
