N.C. Fellows Pick 18 New Members
By VAL VAN HORN
Asst. Features Editor

The North Carolina Fellows Program has selected the new members for the classes of '74, '75, and '76. The selection of the 18 members involved narrowing the 103 applications to 36 finalists—30 freshmen and six transfers. (Transfers did not compete with freshmen.)

The new NC Fellows for the class of '76 are: Mark S. Wilensky, Richard C. Roylance, William P. Reed, Thomas P. Oliver, Iheanyi Xtian Okoli, John Warner Munce, Andrew T. Lamas, Paul R. Irwin, Robert Hoag, Derry Harper, Hugh D. Ferbert, Martin Eakes, Mark William Deaton, Stephen S. Bell, and Norman Atkins. Shaul Saddick was selected from the class of '75; Patricia Elise Margan and Barbara A. Henesy were picked as '74 members.

The finalists spent the weekend of February 23-25 at Montreat, where the new NC Fellows were chosen. The finalists underwent rounds of interviews and group participation programs. Dean of Students Will Terry said, "Groups were interviewed in groups of three. The same people were not in the same group twice.

"The interview rounds lasted 45 minutes for each group—ten minutes for each person, then 15 with the three together," he said. Group participation included dividing the finalists into groups and having them build a tower. "Fellows were selected in combination of all these things," Terry continued. "Each candidate's points were totaled mathematically. One point I want to make is that not one single thing determined a person's place or nonplace."

When asked about the weekend, participant Shaul Saddick said, "It was really good. It was a good chance to get to know other people and it opened questions I didn't have a chance to communicate. I found it very relaxing."

Among those who participated in the selection of the new Fellows were Jean Cornell, Larry Ligo, Sam Malony, and Will Terry of Davidson; H. Babb from the North Carolina Leadership Institute; Arnie Goodstein from the S.C. House of Representatives; and Robert Lassiter, an attorney from Charlotte.

The basic goals of the North Carolina Fellows Program are to identify young persons with exceptional leadership potential and to encourage and assist them in the development of this potential.

By BETSY ALEXANDER
Contributing Editor

Warren Farrell led off the Symposium on Changing Roles Tuesday afternoon with a talk on the importance of the Women's Liberation movement to men. He was followed that night by Sissy Farenthold, speaking on the reality of women’s second-class citizenship.

With the bright eyes and eager voice of a prophet spreading his newfound religion, Farrell talked about the implications the women's lib movement had for the liberation of men. For Farrell, many of the issues that have been talked about from a one-sex perspective are equally applicable to both sexes. By way of example, Farrell mentioned the issue of the image of women as portrayed by children’s books. "The same image prevents men from taking on any aspects that they consider feminine," he said.

WINTER TERM EXAMINATION REGULATIONS

INSTRUCTIONS FOR TAKING ENCLOSED EXAMINATION:
You may pick up morning examinations in Chambers Banquet Hall between 8:40 a.m. and 9:15 a.m. and afternoon examinations between 1:40 p.m. and 2:15 p.m.

Examinations must be taken in any classroom in Chambers. Students needing to use books, graphs, and tables (as specified by the professor), must take the respective examinations in 310 Chambers.

The sealed and completed written examination should be placed back in this envelope and personally returned to the Examination Distribution Center between 9:45 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. (an absolute deadline) for morning examinations, and 2:45 p.m. and 5:15 p.m. (an absolute deadline) for afternoon examinations. You will be given a receipt card. The card should be kept by you until the grade report is received. The card is your evidence that the examination was returned.

Each student must put a check mark below concerning the return of the questions and answers and must sign the Honor Pledge on each examination envelope before it can be accepted by a staff member of the Examination Distribution Center.

( ) Yes, the examination questions are enclosed
( ) Yes, my answers to the questions are enclosed

HONOR PLEDGE:
I have received no unauthorized information prior to or during the taking of this examination, nor will I give out such information about this examination until the total examination period is concluded.

(Signature)

Dean of Students Will Terry outlined the procedure for self-scheduling exams saying, "You should sign the envelope when you turn it in to your professor and then sign the back of your yellow card when you pick the exam up."

"As far as the honor system is concerned..."“I'm concerned,” said Terry, “I am worried about the inadvertent sharing of information. Even if you talk to someone else who has already taken the exam, someone might overhear. Self-scheduled exams are too good a thing,” added Terry, “to let a few careless or selfish people gum up the works."

Page Three

YES, I'M QUALIFIED

The Davidsonian - March 2, 1973

Faces

(Staff photo by Goodman)

Sissy Farenthold explains the feminist viewpoint.

Speakers Air Liberation Views

At the same time the images of women are expanded in children's books, Farrell noted that men’s should also change to show “men taking care of children, crying, admitting they are wrong, wearing aprons, or cleaning house.

“One of the ironies of our society,” said Farrell, “is that the more unlike women you become, the better your chances of getting a woman.”

Farrell pointed out the fallacy of treating the women's movement as a civil rights movement. The intimacy of the relationship between men and women requires that the movement be “much more integrated to the relationship with women. They are connected in that each must contribute to the liberation of the other sex," he indicated.

To enable men to take the offensive, to get “beyond masculinity,” is the concept of consciousness-raising groups, “when seven or eight persons sit around and consider what is making them do what they are doing.”

In answer to the fear that women's lib will contribute to the breakdown of the family, Farrell said that “When both groups are involved, it can only contribute to the solidification of any heterosexual relationship.” Two people starting out with basically the same interests become divided when the man out in the working world expands and the woman in the home contracts. “Division of labor starts division of interests,” he said.

Farrell ended by saying that men have a lot to gain from the women's lib movement, “the whole ability to have contact with other persons, learning to be able to sympathize, and ultimately, learning to be able to love.”

The second speaker of the day, Sissy Farenthold, chairwoman of the National Women's Political Caucus and candidate for the nomination of the vice presidency of the Democratic Convention, spoke on the waste of human resources “as it relates to the women in this country.”

The women's movement has two thrusts according to Farenthold, “one directed toward economic and political rights, and the other toward defining women psychologically.”

“In 1970, three-quarters of all clerical work and two-thirds of all service positions were held by women,” she stated. Farenthold gave further statistics showing that less than 9 percent of scientists, doctors, lawyers, or engineers are women while 70 percent of dieticians, librarians, and elementary school teachers are women. “Even in the jobs dominated by women, the top jobs belong to men.

“If women are second-class citizens of this country, minority women are third-class citizens,” she added.

In politics, Farenthold held that women have always been sold the bill of goods that politics is unfeminine. “Before entering the Texas legislature, I was continually asking myself, ‘Are you up to it? Are you qualified?’

“After two years of observing the governor and the lieutenant governor, I had absolutely no trepidation about running against them,” she said.

Whiting To Present Lectures On China

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Asst. Managing Editor

Professor of Political Science Allan Whiting, a leading authority on China and the Far East, will visit Davidson College on March 7. Whiting teaches at the University of Michigan and will lecture at Davidson in conjunction with the Piedmont Lecture Series. His first lecture, which will be at 10 a.m. in the College Union, is titled “United States-China: Myth and Reality.” Whiting’s second lecture will begin at 7 p.m. and will be “China In the 1970's--Power and Policy.”

Whiting has had a long, active career in government service. In 1962, he served as the Director of the Office of Research and Analysis for the Far East, a post which he held until 1966 when he was appointed Deputy Consul General to Hong Kong. Whiting has held several other positions and has traveled officially in India, Burma, Thailand, Laos, South Vietnam, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Japan.

Whiting was chairman of Citizens to Change U.S.-China Policy in 1971-72. Whiting also worked with the National Security Council for the President's recent trip to China and is presently a consultant for the State Department. He is a contributing editor for “The New Republic.”

Professor Whiting received his B.A. at Cornell University, and his M.A. and Ph.D. at Columbia University. He has published several books on International Relations and the Far East.