Six November 30, 1973 The Davidsonian

Energy Crisis

Talk about all the "good" that’s going to come out of the energy crisis and how it’s really a "blessing
in disguise." Humbug! These Pollyannas looking through their rose-colored glasses tell us that the energy crisis will revive passenger train
service, cause us to rediscover the joys of walking, and allow us to breathe clean air again since there won't
be any cars around. I agree that if the above come about (and I have serious doubts that they will),
then these will be beneficial results, but look at the cost! As Gov. Holshouser put it, many have seemingly forgotten
that not every family has two big gas-guzzling cars nor does everybody have a vacation retreat to go to every
weekend. A middle-class family might be willing to "sacrifice" one of its cars or drive less. But what about the
man from the lower or lower-middle class family who must depend on his car to get to and from work?
Unfortunately, thanks to the highway lobby and the auto industry which has opposed mass transit, the car is not a
luxury but a necessity to many in our society. But the poor, like everyone else, must sacrifice in this time
of national emergency, and it doesn’t matter if they don't have anything to give up.

To those ecologists who see the energy crisis as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to curb the auto, a statement by the
president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce should prove instructive. Speaking on Monday after Nixon’s speech, he said that Nixon
had not gone far enough, and that what was needed was the end to price controls on gasoline and home
pollution regulations, the re-institution of offshore oil drilling (like off Santa Barbara), more strip mining, and a number of other
measures that would aid big business. Of course, Nixon has asked for a relaxation of anti-trust and conflict of interest
laws against the oil companies, theoretically because this would help solve our energy problem. It looks like Nixon will finally
get what he has always wanted — business and government in bed together. Big government and big business marching in
lockstep, the fascists in Germany never had it so good.

In December of 1972, prior to being inaugurated for the second time, Nixon gave an exclusive interview to the "Washington
Star News" in which he said the American people were just like children. What we needed, he said, was more
self-discipline and more sacrificing. Well, it looks like Der Fuhrer will get to implement his ill-conceived value system despite the
loss of his "mandate." Naturally, like all those of similar ilk, self-sacrifice only applies to others and not to the
privileged and powerful.

Charley Varrick

It’s easy to see how Don Siegel’s "Charley Varrick" could be made. The heroes are super-studs and the women are
pliable (except for one militant old lady who spends her dotage in valiant defense of her chastity). There’s enough sex
and four-letter language to satisfy the masses without addressing the most essential needs of his creation. The pretty opening montage
shows scenes of country life such as a little girl playing among grains in a field. He adds other details
to make the visuals more interesting such as an involved staircase, a set of swings, and a game of table
tennis. These are photographed with a nice open-air feeling, but in the end, we are left without a movie.

Walter Matthau is miscast as Charley Varrick and his comic talents are wasted. The supporting players, with two exceptions, give
rather bad performances. Joe Don Baker is surprisingly good after a miserable performance in "Walking Tall," and Marjorie Bennett is
well-cast as Varrick’s senile neighbor. With a fine sense of the absurd, she intones, "Roll me over, in the clover.
Roll me over, lay me down, and do it again."

"Charley Varrick" is now playing at the Village Theater in Charlotte.

JOE MCMILLANen and it is noteworthy that the oil shortage did not keep him from flying in his helicopter up
to Camp David for Thanksgiving or in his jet to Disneyworld earlier (where he should have stayed to save us
from his fantasies). What is most unfortunate about the energy crisis (besides taking us to Davidson for the weekend) is
that it comes at a time when much remains to be done in this country. With the passing of affluence
and good times, any talk of reform to aid the poor might as well be thrown out the window with
the Christmas lights.

What is somewhat remarkable about all this is that the American people have taken the bad news in good cheer
(probably out of ignorance stemming from believing Nixon’s lies, which hide the true seriousness of the situation). We have been
told in the past that we get only five percent of our oil from the Mideast, but it turns out
to be more like 20 percent. Nixon has said that within 10 years we will be totally self-sufficient and will
not have to depend on oil supplies from abroad (from our “enemies” as Nixon once put it in a Freudian
slip). Hell! By that time I will be 31, and the best years of my life will have slipped through
my fingers. Henry K, where are you when we really need you?

There is a Reverend Ike in Boston who says, “I promise you that pie in the sky TODAY, a la
mode!” That’s my kind of religion, and my question is what is Nixon going to do to keep me from
freezing this winter? Those who continue to look on the “positive” side (as if there were one) remind me of
the Jews who thought the gas chambers they were being shoved into were showers. While those who want to can
go dancing into the gas chambers, I, for one, will go fighting, protesting, and yelling all the way.

Freshmen Criticize Self-Selection Rush

To the Editor:

This letter is directed more to the college administration than to the eating clubs of Patterson Court. We had delayed
writing it until all rush activities were completed in the hope that something would happen. It was our overall impression
that the majority of the houses lacked any basic interest in attracting freshmen members. The house members were very demonstrative
during the rush to the extent of offering beer, PJ, grain, and various other niceties. However, there was very little
follow-up to this initial contact with a freshman. A visitor to any given house during rush could expect to be
asked his name and dormitory, but the interest in him, for the most part, seemed to end there.

We began to wonder where the blame for this apparent apathy lay. The answer seemed to be the college administration
since the policy of self-selective eating houses was formulated there. Members of houses do not really care about rush, for
the most part, since they have no say in who becomes a member of the house. Why should they push
for certain individuals to become members when the only criterion for membership is an individual's place in line? Despite the
valiant efforts on the part of the administration to ensure that all freshmen were exposed to the Patterson Court, the
fact remains that all were not. Granted, students gravitated to the rush parties where beer “flowed like water” and grain
“like an everflowing stream.” The point is that nothing was accomplished. To put it bluntly, it is the fault of
the system of self-selection that rush did not fulfill its purpose. At least, rush could have been like any other
advertisement for a public restaurant. It was, however, not even that in most cases. The houses go through the motions
and the freshmen are no better informed than before.

Walter Joyce ‘77
Thomas Arnold ‘77
Keith W. Golgart ‘77
Jeff Brown ‘77
Davidson College
