October 5, 1973

The Davidsonian

Law School Visits Aid Advisory Committee

By PHILIP BISHOP
Associate Editor

(Ed. note: This article is the first in a four-part series dealing with the Davidson advisory programs for various types
of graduate schools. This one deals with the pre-law situation; subsequent articles will focus on the pre-med, pre-ministerial, and pre-managerial
programs.)

The pre-law advisory committee, fresh from visitations to 20 law schools in the South, is beginning a long overdue improvement
of Davidson’s pre-law program.

“Like everyone else, we were overwhelmed by the deluge of students who wanted to go to law school,” admitted Political
Science Professor Winfred P. Minter, a pre-law advisor. The big task in reinforcing the program was to find out what
law schools looked for in their applicants. “We had to iron out our contacts by talking to the admissions officers
of these schools,” Minter said.

Minter pointed with pride to last year’s record of admission of Davidson students to law school. Some 38 of the
47 students who applied were admitted, he noted. Yet the pre-law program still seems to be plagued by vague and
contradictory advice to aspiring law candidates.

“The new pamphlet (published this fall) is the first thing I’ve seen that is written down,” complained a Davidson pre-law
senior. “It may be necessarily vague, or maybe that’s the way it’s run; but nobody seems to know what courses
I need to get into law school,” the student added.

Minter countered that many law schools are like a “bunch of farmers going their own way” and do not have
a standard preparatory curriculum. Most schools seem to be interested in evidence of “breadth of ability,” said Minter. “Unlike the
pre-meds’ program, we cannot tailor a specific curriculum, and that’s the way law schools want it,” he added.

Minter showed little interest in expanding the number of law schools familiar with Davidson, because most of the students who
come to Davidson “are interested in the good law schools in the South.”

Much of student dissatisfaction with the pre-law program is “flak from someone who had his heart set on a certain
school and was turned down,” claimed Minter. Some students still complain that advisory committee information on the specifics of law
school application comes too little and too late. One student expressed a desire for a meeting of all pre-law students
to ensure publicity for test deadlines and other details of the application process.

Minter admitted the need to “get the word out” and mentioned the new pre-law pamphlet and next week’s College Conference
Schedule as innovations in publicity of the pre-law program. Still, the burden “rests with the student,” concluded Minter, both in
producing a good undergraduate record and in finding out what law schools look for in that record.

HEAVING THE CLACK HEART

Highlander Bob Porterfield of Charlotte demonstrates how to heave the Clack Heart or Stone of Strength. This game will be
among those featured during Scottish festivities of Homecoming Weekend.

Homecoming Features Muddy Waters

Legendary bluesman Muddy Waters and a five-person comedy team will perform in the concerts slated for this year’s first big-weekend
entertainment. One of the original Chicago bluesmen and key figures in the evolution of the electric Chicago blues style, Waters
will bring his six-man band to Love Auditorium tomorrow night at 8 p.m. He has written and performed a great
number of blues standards including “Rolling Stone,” “Honey Bee,” “Got My Mojo Working,” “I Just Want To Make Love To
You,” as well as establishing one of the standard styles and sounds for an electric blues band. Electrified slide guitar
and use of piano and harmonica in a full band established the standard for other blues bands in the ‘40s
and ‘50s and for a new generation of blues musicians.

Executive Editor: MIKE TANNER
Managing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, MARK DEATON, CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Sports Editors: JIM SITTERSON, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Associate Editors: ALAN BLAKLEY, DOUG BROWN, TOM BRUCE, STEVE CANTERBURY, TODD EADES, JOE EARLE, MARY HOBBIE, RICHARD ROMEYN, MILES WARD
Contributing Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, PHILIP BISHOP, DAVID HANIG, ANDY LAMAS, HUGH MOORE, JIM PAULSEN
Technical Assistant: BILL ELLETT
Contributors this week:

Asst. Managing Editors: LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, LARRY MIMMS, MARK WILENSKY
Photography Editor: PETE GOODMAN
News Editor: HARRIETT HODGES
Assistant Features Editors: ALAN FORD, FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Assistant Sports Editor: MARK CONNORS
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKCOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Asst. Business Managers: PHIL STYKES, DAVID TRADERChief: CHOLLET STILL PATTI SHANKWEILER Ernest Barry, Anne Bode, Pete Celantano, Tracy Charles, Jordan
Clark, Matthew Covington, Steve Johnson, Charles Kennon, Joe McMillan, Will Robertson, John Tatum, Lex Veazey.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: generation of rock musicians
and white bluesmen in the ‘60s.

"Proposition," a five-person comedy team, will appear in concert tonight as part of the Davidson College Comedy Program. The Boston-based
group has been together for six years, and has companies performing in both Boston and New York. Following the concert
tonight, there will be a number of open fraternity parties on Patterson Court, and the Rathskeller in College Union will
be open. Tomorrow there will be a Scottish festival from 10 a.m. to noon on the practice football field. The
Wildcats will meet the East Carolina Pirates at 2 p.m. Following the football game, the film "Camelot" will be shown
in Hodson Hall. The film will also be shown at 10 p.m. and at midnight, and will cost $1 per
person.

After the Muddy Waters show, the Union is sponsoring a concert-dance in Chambers Basement. "Tomorrow," a rock band performing all
original material, will be featured. The Union is providing free beer and "We haven't had a rock and roll dance
in a couple of years," Social Chairman Tom Tornee said, "and we thought it was time for a good campus-wide
party." Union President Joe Earle said that "Tomorrow" was a band people could both dance to and enjoy listening to
and said that the concert-dance atmosphere would give everyone "a chance to get off on the music." "This is a
fine band," Earle said. "They use good rocking music combined with both blues and a country tinge and manage a
really individual rock and roll style." The party will last from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.

College Counseling Days Set
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Associate Editor

In an effort to provide all Davidson students with better counseling, Oct. 10 and 17 have been set aside as
College Conference Days. Classes will be suspended, and students are urged to meet with their advisors and with representatives of
various professions, career/service, and foreign studies. Vice President for Academic Affairs John Bevan sees the conference sessions as a visible
expression of "Davidson’s uniqueness," and said he felt "Counseling is a critical element in a small college." "What this does
is point up the importance of faculty-student relationships in planning a student's education," Bevan said.

This year's conference program will involve the entire student body whereas last year, the two conference days were devoted primarily
to freshman counseling. "It is a shame to use the time and not include everybody," said Dean of Students Will
Terry. Terry said he felt that upperclassmen are not in any less need of counseling than freshmen. "Sophomores are at
the point of choosing a major, juniors are at the point of choosing a profession, and seniors are at a
point where they need to decide upon a graduate school," he said. Terry pointed to the emphasis on vocational counseling
as one of the most significant aspects of the conference program. On October 17, between 1 and 3 p.m., interested
students can meet professional people from such fields as medicine, law, business management, foreign service, and the ministry for informal
discussion. "This will give those who are uncertain about their career plans the opportunity to examine the possibilities," Terry said.

Bevan emphasized that upperclassmen should not regard the conference days as days of rest. "If a student has a question,
now is the time to ask it," he said.

Student Thievery

Student thievery at the ARA dining houses is still in evidence this year. Ron Scott, director of Slater food service,
has indicated that students are "ripping off" his facilities. Rusk House, in particular, seems to be a target for pilferage.
"Silverware, china, and salt and pepper shakers are among the items that disappear from the dining hall," Scott said. He
noted that in the end, student poaching affects the board dollar and everyone bears the cost. Scott revealed that the
actual loss is about $1000 per year for equipment alone. And while equipment disappears, food is also being stolen. Scott
estimated that even if 10 to 15 students mooch a Coke daily, the annual cost would be $200 annually for
ARA. Although this filching is nothing that hasn't happened before, Scott said he was disappointed to see this happen to
the Davidson honor system.
