Two Governance Systems Considered

AN ANALYSIS By TODD EADES Associate Editor

In moving towards a new governance system, discussion of general structures and specific proposals is needed. Essentially, two governmental systems
are under consideration: an area delegation system and a college assembly system. The present system is basically one of area
delegation. Dr. Spencer, in his Convocation address, suggested that a college assembly system of some type might be advantageous.

In an area delegation system, powers are delegated by the trustees to various groups to act in specific fields. This
system is extremely flexible, allowing varying degrees of operational and policy control in each area for the several groups. However,
the area delegation system generally involves administrative hegemony in most areas, which is a great part of Davidson’s experience and
is not inherent in the system.

A college assembly system accomplishes the sharing of authority among groups represented in a general legislative-type assembly. In theory, this
assembly has virtually full operational and policy control. In practice, various graduations of assembly authority are possible. In both systems,
the Board of Trustees possesses ultimate authority.

Model I is a synthesis of the two systems but is primarily an area delegation model with a faculty-dominated assembly
of limited powers. This assembly consists of all teaching faculty, nine administrators, and 20 adjunct student members. The President presides
over the assembly, although the Faculty elects a Chairman pro tempore. Executive sessions of the assembly exclude student participation. Petition
to the trustees is permitted by a three-fourths vote of the entire assembly.

For simplicity, only five major areas of concern will be discussed: Fiscal, Personnel, and Development Affairs, Educational Policy and Program,
Admissions, Athletics, and Campus Life. The assembly has primary responsibility in the two areas of Educational Policy and Admissions. Legislative
committees of the assembly, chaired by administrators, advise the assembly, which is the decision-making body. The President may submit any
assembly decision to the trustees for review and deny implementation for three months. The other three areas are the primary
responsibility of the president. Advisory Councils in these areas receive major Presidential proposals to the Trustees for perusal and may
submit to the trustees a majority dissent.

Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

College Committee To Formulate Recommendations By ALEC HOON Editor-in-Chief

On Wednesday, Oct. 3 in Montreat, N.C., the combined Trustee-Faculty Committee on Athletics will meet to discuss and approve recommendations
for the Davidson Athletic Program, to be presented to the full meeting of the Board of Trustees on Oct. 26.
As of Tuesday, there was some concern over whether the Trustee Committee would meet in closed session, without either faculty
or student members of the faculty committee on athletics present. On Wednesday, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. denied that
there would be any exclusion, saying, “The faculty committee on athletics may send either representatives or all of its members
to the committee meeting in Montreat.”

The chairman of the faculty athletic committee, Vice-President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, announced that there would be a
meeting on Oct. 1 of his committee to decide what their recommendations for the joint meeting on Wednesday would be.
“I have asked each member, student and faculty, to prepare a position paper on athletics which will be read at
the meeting on Monday. After these papers are read, we will try to get a consensus opinion of the committee,”
Bevan stated.

The combined meeting in Montreat is to prepare specific recommendations on athletics for Trustee approval. The recommendations will be along
the lines of those delivered by Spencer in his address last Friday at Convocation. (see Highlights Box, page 1) Included
in the Spencer speech was the announcement that future football scholarships would be based almost exclusively on need. This means
that when a scholarship is given to a football player, if any part of this scholarship comes in the form
of a job or loan, the Wildcat Club will pay that part so that the player will not have to
work or repay the loan. Spencer also indicated that the maximum number of football players who could receive scholarships would
be made by the administration with the help of the faculty committee on athletics. Bevan said that this number would
probably be somewhere between 60 and 75. He also said that such scholarship costs would be considerably less than the
amount the college is presently spending on scholarships.

Davidson By PHILLIP BISHOP Associate Editor

More than 6000 students applied this year for 89 seats in Wake Forest's Bowman-Gray Medical School. TheThe average grade point
average of the class entering Duke University Medical School this fall was 3.55. What chance do Davidson graduates stand in
the cutthroat competition for places in the nation’s professional and graduate schools? Probably as good as ever, claimed Vice President
for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. “Statistically speaking, we are doing well in maintaining Davidson's excellent record of professional school
admissions,” said Bevan. “Davidson has a tradition which is undefinable, but as meaningful as anything else in the evaluation of
an undergraduate for admission.”

But now is no time for Davidson to rest on its laurels. Other, less-known undergraduate schools are aggressively improving their
faculties and are better preparing their students for graduate study, Bevan pointed out. To keep Davidson ahead in the race
for professional school admissions, faculty and administrators have embarked on an effort to improve the pre-professional programs, he said. Bevan
emphasized the College Conference Schedule, slated for Oct. 10 and 17, as an important step in that effort. “On the
afternoon of October 17, pre-meds and other pre-professional students will meet with professionals - doctors, lawyers, etc. - from outside
the college,” Bevan explained. In addition, each student will be assigned that day to an advisor, Bevan said. He stated
that this would prevent overloading any one advisor and would make possible closer supervision of pre-professional students.

Another pre-professional curriculum is being added to the traditional pre-med, pre-law, and pre-ministerial studies, Bevan noted. A pre-managerial program, to
be headed by Economics Professor Charles E. Ratliff, could include “just about everybody” who does not go on to graduate
school, including candidates for jobs in banking, public affairs, and business, according to Bevan.

Improving programs at Davidson is not the only way to ensure a sympathetic ear in admissions offices at Duke or
Harvard or Princeton. Bevan said that he was aware of the need for good public relations with professional schools. “With
funds from my office, we sent professors to talk with almost a dozen law schools this summer,” he noted. “Also,
having Davidson graduates already at these schools or on their faculties sometimes means a lot to a Davidson applicant,” Bevan
added.

Does a Davidson graduate still have an edge on most of the students clamoring for admission to America’s professional schools?
“A sort of mystique is still there. Yes, Davidson still has a good record of graduate admissions,” replied Bevan.

LOCK UP
Director of the Honors Center, Earl MacCormac, announced this week that the Center would be locked up at 11 p.m.
instead of midnight as announced last week. MacCormac stated that the problems of vandals and student abuse last year would
be solved by the closing. He said that the security force's schedule necessitated the one-hour change. Phil Hall, open all
night long last year, will also close at 11 p.m. for similar reasons.
