Page Six March 2, 1973 The Davidsonian

Despite Nationwide Boom

(Staff Photo by Jernigan)

CRIMINAL NEMESIS
Officer Terry Springs patrols the Davidson campus.

Union Officers Attend Session
By TOM BRUCE
Associate Editor

College Union President Joe Earle and Vice Presidents Bonnie Hennesy and Tom Tornee visited Cincinnati during a recent weekend National
Entertainment Contest. The trio left Davidson on the Sunday of Mid-winters and returned on the following Wednesday. At the convention,
they saw a series of acts, exhibitions, and seminar ideas that will be considered for possible use in future Union
programs.

Earle indicated that the time at the convention is split between actually viewing the acts and meeting with other colleges
to discuss new ideas for entertainment and programming. “We had hopes that we could join with a few other North
Carolina schools and block-book an act. This makes a more attractive proposition for the performer, and it cuts our expenses,”
Earle stated.

After the three returned from Cincinnati, the entire Union Board met to discuss the coming year's social offerings. They approved
a thematic approach to scheduling the various programs and concerts. The three themes for the year will be a massive
approach to comedy, a study of the future, and an investigation into changing values. “These programs will hopefully involve all
the different aspects of the campus from the ROTC department to the chaplain,” said Earle. “The Union is primarily a
collection of funds for students to spend. They can make proposals or offer criticisms. There is no reason why we
cannot have anything that we want.”

Outside Perspective
By LEX VEAZEY

ASU Discusses Calendar Change

Department chairmen at Appalachian State University have discussed various curricular systems at several recent open hearings on a proposed calendar
change. The advantages and disadvantages of the 4-1-4 and the five-day quarter systems were major concerns. One chairman pointed out
that a fatigue factor must be considered in adopting the five-day system. Appalachian now has a day off in the
middle of the week. Another faculty member said that the five-day quarter system would cause a definite lab problem. “Students
would be expected to attend labs whenever they could fit them into their schedule, and this is unrealistic,” he commented.

In discussing the 4-1-4 system, the department chairman emphasized the economic problems that Appalachian would face if such a system
were adopted. One professor said, “For small universities, this plan is perfect. But when the student enrollment exceeds 2000, such
as ours does, it becomes increasingly difficult to finance such a program. Appalachian would lose a lot of money in
the interim period, since many of the students would probably be at home working instead of attending the classes held
during this time.”

Dean Dudley, chairman of the Economics Department, commented that several students had asked why the university doesn't just have a
big election on the calendar change. However, Dudley emphasized that this election “would reflect, perhaps, the most popular, and not
the most effective, system for our university. Our task is to find the most effective calendar for ASU,” he said.

Campus Crime Rate Reduced, Police Praised For Efforts
By JIM JERNIGAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Police are happy. Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze is happy. The majority of the students
are happy. Despite a nationwide boom in campus crime, Davidson College has drastically reduced its reported crime rate. Only $100
has been reported in theft this year. Last year $3000 worth was taken. Many attribute this drop to the presence
of the Davidson Police Force. Two officers are on campus during the critical 10 p.m.-2 a.m. period. Statistics show that
most crime occurs during this period, and on weekends. Officers Terry E. Springs and J. M. Griffin feel that the
anti-police attitude expressed by Gray Wilson in last week's Davidsonian is unfounded.

Raves
A REVIEW
By ROBERT BOLICK
Staff Writer

You say you've got the blues, feel rundown, iron-poor blood? Don't spend your two and a quarter on Geritol; take
it down to the Charlottetown Mall and see “Steelyard Blues,” perhaps the funniest movie since “M.A.S.H.” Donald Sutherland registers a
beautiful performance as Veldini, a loser with a penchant for grabbing the nearest vehicle and entering the first demolition derby
he can find. His ultimate goal? Why, his own derby track with events for campers, buses, pick-ups, Macks, and even
mobile homes.

The conflict centers around Jesse Veldini's knack for getting in jail and his brother Frank's (Howard Hesseman) desire to become
attorney general of the state. The scandal won't do, so dear brother Frank sets Jesse up in business as chief
cage cleaner at the local zoo, but that doesn't pan out for Jesse who has other things up his pant's
leg.The text has been cleaned while preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

was not shared by the majority of students. Both Springs and Griffin believe that the operation is much smoother now
that they know many of the students. And most students report little or no police harassment. The police are authorized
to enforce any state law. They will not, however, enter a dorm unless specifically requested to by a student. But
recently, they apprehended three outsiders stealing tape decks in Belk Dorm after a student had called them into the dorm.
The police are sensitive to any form of property damage and to careless driving. Often, they stop cycle riders without
a helmet. They are easy on beer laws and drunks. Unless a flagrant exhibition of marijuana is shown, smokers will
not be bothered.

“Provided that we can afford it,” he said. Earle said that the Union board was hopeful that they could enlist
support from the Reynolds lectureship to bring some speakers to campus who are clearly worthwhile from an academic standpoint. “Ramsey
Clark was a good example of this. The entire Corrections Symposium was engineered outside of the Union by an interested
student, Bob Wallace. It was funded by the endowed Reynolds Lectureship,” he said. Earle revealed that the Keynote Speaker at
the Cincinnati convention was Artie Shaw. Others who made appearances were Christine Jorgensen, who is available for public addresses, and
the February bunny from ‘Playboy Magazine’ who was selling subscriptions.

No major problems have resulted from the increased presence of females on campus. However, several local Peeping Toms have been
evicted from the bushes surrounding Little Dorm. Meetze felt that the lack of complaints and the attitudes of both students
and police are important indicators of the program's success. He said that the slight rise in the security operating budget
is more than justified. Some problems did come with the daytime use of student patrolmen earlier in the year. A
few student cops were threatened, kept awake by obscene phone calls, and were spit upon. Meetze gives full credit to
the Student Security Council under the leadership of Mitch Purvis for making the system work. The Council meets once a
month and promptly considers all complaints. “Student participation is the best thing that ever happened to this college,” declared Meetze.
“With the 18-year-old vote, students are citizens. The college is not off-limits to the laws we all make. Without regulations,
people will not discipline themselves,” he concluded.

Besides being better trained, the town cops are fully equipped with walkie-talkies whenever they leave their patrol cars. They have
just completed a course covering all aspects of police work offered by Central Piedmont Community College. It is now required
by state law. Officers Springs and Griffin expressed the desire for more student concern over outsiders in the dorms. “The
fewer uninvited outsiders allowed in the dorms, the better off the inhabitants will be,” they declared.

To ‘Steelyard Blues,’ Funniest Movie Since ‘MASH’

These other things involve the rest of a hilarious cast. Enough cannot be said for the Eagle (Peter Boyle), who
is a nut of all trades. Boyle's Brando and John Wayne impersonations are fully worth the price of your seat.
Garry Goodrow as Duval Jack displays considerable comic talent and more than holds his own with Boyle and Sutherland. Jane
Fonda, one of Veldini's true loves, gives an uneven performance as the stereotype “fallen woman with a heart of gold.”
In one superb scene, however, she smoothly puts bad guy Frank on ice, rather she puts the ice on him
via an open fly.

‘Steelyard Blues’ is not much more than a gag movie though, making asides to the audience about infringement on personal
rights, the right to privacy, and to be different. For the characters of this movie, those rights amount to the
right to be crazy, to be a whore, to steal cars, and, generally, raise hell. The gag nature of Steelyard
Blues stands out as one of Sutherland's major debts to ‘M.A.S.H.’ in directing this film. Sutherland has, however, made a
move away from the comedy that put him in the top bracket of actors. That move consists of warmth. The
warmth in his own characterization and the warmth that seems to have been directed into the performances of Goodrow and
Fonda set this movie apart from the cold zaniness of ‘M.A.S.H.’ This warmth seems to be a new trend for
comedy these days. For instance, there is a great deal more humanity in the television version of ‘M.A.S.H.’ than in
the movie version. It's also manifest in ‘Sanford and Son’ and ‘All in the Family.’ At any rate, Steelyard Blues
gets a “see it twice” rating from this viewer. Look forward to strong performances by the male cast, Ms. Fonda's
being there, and good, corny, country music by Bloomfield, Butterfield, and Kahn.
