Species, McCann Lead Cagers

As we move into the third week of IMAC action, C.A. & Young Buck focus this week's column on the
play-for-fun cagers in League B. On top of the heap in Division I are the organically-oriented Several Species (or the
SS, as we call them) with a 4-0 record. The SS are led by the shooting of Jim McNair and
the skyrocket rebounding of Tom (the Moose) Soos. Their finest hour was a clutch 30-27 win over a fine Grey
House team.

Right behind the SS and hanging tough is PDT #3. Sparked by Mike Ernst and Bick Halligan, the Delts should
give the SS a run for the top berth. Tied for second with the Delts is that powerhouse freshman combine,
Sentelle #3. In their contest with the ATOs, the frosh showed a lot of class when they recovered from quite
a shock—the ATOs showed up—to win 49-11. It was a moral victory for the ATOs, however, as they got into
double figures.

Back in the third position are the campus elite, better known as Grey House. After losing that squeaker to the
SS, the elite bounced back to rout Watts B 66-25. W-1B has followed W-1A's fine example of wimpiness with their
only victory being a sound thrashing of ATO, 1-0, by forfeit. Also in third is Fanny and Mavel's No. 2.

Cat Club Gridders Schedule Three NCCFA Spring Games

By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

After a successful first fall season, Davidson's club football team will resume play this spring. Bob Wetzel and Eric Scharling,
acting as player representatives, attended a North Carolina Club Football Association director's meeting at Duke last Sunday. Attending this meeting
were representatives of all the other schools in the association, including Central Piedmont, Duke, East Carolina, North Carolina, and North
Carolina State.

At this meeting, the spring schedule was planned and Davidson has three games tentatively scheduled. The first will take place
April 14 against Central Piedmont. On April 21, the gridders will play Duke at Myrtle Beach. This game at Myrtle
Beach is part of a charity affair in which all the teams of the conference will participate. The other games
being played are Central Piedmont vs. N.C. State and East Carolina vs. North Carolina. The last game scheduled for the
spring will be against Methodist, which is just starting a club.

The Duke game at Myrtle Beach is the only game where a definite site has been determined. Sites for the
other two games will have to be decided by Davidson's club officials and their opponents. Another important aspect of the
director's meeting concerned Davidson directly. A change in rules now will allow more Davidson students to play club football. The
old rule stated that no person could play club football if they at any time received a scholarship to play
football or competed in varsity competition with or without a scholarship. Because of Davidson's small enrollment, this rule has been
changed in Davidson's case to read that students are not eligible to play if they have ever competed on the
varsity level in football.team. F&M #2 had a unique experience last week when team leader Dave Griffiths scored 16 points
in their game with (who else?) W-1B. It seems Grif scored 12 for F&M #2 and 4 for W-1B. W-1B
had a player injured and took Grif so that the game could continue.

football. This change in rules now allows any Davidson student who came to school with a football scholarship but did
not continue on to play varsity football to play on the club team. The rule change was not needed earlier
because Davidson’s club was a first-year member and the no-scholarship requirement is waived for all new members of the Association.

Cornelius, N. C.
NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING
“We Rent Tux”
Phone 892-8064

The Davidsonian
February 2, 1973
Page Eleven

IMAC REPORT with BUCKY AND CAPTAIN AMERICA

Moving to Division II, the uncontested leader is McCann, who stands alone at 4-0. McCann’s leading scorers are Jack Fletcher
and (you guessed it!) McCann. They definitely are the team to beat in Division II. There's a three-way tie for
second between F&M #2, the Cannoneers, and PKA #2. Emanon #2 knocked the Cannoneers from the undefeated ranks Monday in
a 50-49 squeaker. The Cannoneers rely on the outside shooting of John Crenshaw, while Emanon #2 features a balanced attack.
PKA #2 kept pace after a close shave with the last-place Lakers. The Lakers, smelling an upset, were thwarted in
the last seconds by a 50 (?) ft. jumper by Ford Newman which gave the Pika's the 36-35 victory.

Two other teams of interest in Division II are Bruno's Bunch and Gunner Joe. Bruno's Bunch is coached by our
favorite wop, Mike Sorrentino. Their record stands at a dismal 1-3, and there is talk of changing the name to
Powell's Powerhouse. Gunner Jones is the only team in the league to have co-eds on the roster. GJ is also
1-3 and unfortunately, their No. 1 girl, Katie Early, leaves for Africa next week to train with the Peace Corps.

League B
Several Species
PDT #4
S-3
F&M
Grey House
PAX B
Lemmons
W-1B
PGD #2
SAE #3
ATO
McCann
Cannoneers
F&M #2
PKA #2
S-1
2nd Belk
Bruno’s Bunch
Gunner Jones
PDT #5
Lakers

Rent Furniture From M: TROLEASE
170 N. Main
Whatever you want, we've got

ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.

Deal's Restaurant and Grill
Dial 663-4141
Mooresville, N.C.
Open 6 Days: 6 A.M. till Midnight
Closed Mondays
Call and Take-Out Orders Will Be Ready

Hattie’s Grill
HAPPY HOUR
Mon. - Fri.
Mugs — 20¢
Football Tournament every Wed. at 9
Prize for a two-man team is a half case of beer
7-8 Pitchers of 54 oz. — 85¢

the hungry i
Edward Harding
February 8, 9, and 10, 1973
Thursday _ 9:30 and 10:30 P.M. (Coeds half price)
Friday _ 9:00, 10:00, & 11:00 P.M.
Saturday _ 9:00, 10:00, & 11:00 P.M.
ADMISSION 50¢
Union Rathskeller
