Ten October 5, 1973

SEE CATS RUN

Cat harriers tune up for their encounter with The Citadel this weekend. Head coach Sterling Martin has been pleased with
the team's progress thus far.

Williamson Leads Defense, Works With Youth Programs

By ANNE BODE
Staff Writer

Eddie Williamson spends a considerable amount of time working with kids at the YM-YWCA, teaching them basketball. When he is
not doing this, he spends his time performing a more unfriendly activity, like ripping through a defensive line and smashing
an opposing quarterback.

These two diametrically opposed activities constitute what Williamson likes to do best. Both qualities are performed well by the Pendleton,
S.C. native. Williamson came to Davidson with the expectation of playing major college football, after having played an extensive amount
throughout his junior and high school years. But he readily admits that college football is “a lot rougher” than he
expected it to be. But his never-say-die attitude has catapulted him to the leadership position for the 1973 edition of
Bob Mosketti’s team.

Furman Topples Cat Harriers, Martin Pleased With Showing

By MARK CONNORS
Asst. Sports Editor

Making the best showing in several years, the Davidson College cross country team lost its dual meet opener to Furman
last week. But optimism is the prevalent mood as the Cats face The Citadel today in Charleston.

“I was very, very pleased with our showing against Furman,” head coach Sterling Martin commented. “It’s the best run we've
had against them in several years and I'm really pleased with everyone's performance.”

The Harriers lost by the score of 19-36. The winner in cross country is the team scoring the fewest points.
Furman placed four runners ahead of Ricky Bell, the top runner for the Wildcats. Bell finished the five-mile trek in
a very respectable time of 27 minutes, 57 seconds. It was Bell's best time on the Davidson course this early
in the season. Behind Bell came a pack of Davidson runners, including Coty Pinckney, Jeff Neikirk, and John Barksdale.

Martin feels that this year’s team is the beginning of a team that could be a real Southern Conference contender
in the next couple of years. “We're trying to recruit some real top prospects for next year,” he said. “We're
trying to recruit a front runner that could run with Bell. My hopes for Coty, Jeff, John, and Jesse all
have materialized.”

Martin emphasized the unique depth that this year's squad possesses. “Everyone is performing up to or above par at this
point,” he emphasized. “I'm sure that everyone, especially Steve Scroggs, Bill Smith, and Bob Lautensack will begin to lower their
times,” Martin added. “With this large a group in the same range, we definitely can pose a threat to future
opponents. The balance is the best it’s ever been in past years and I'm very encouraged.”

The Wildcat Harriers face The Citadel today in Charleston, S.C. at 10 a.m. The Citadel has boasted good teams in
the past and their front runner, Nick Pugh, is back for his final year. Martin feels, however, after the strong
showing the Cats made against Furman, the chances of beating the Bulldogs are very good. “If everyone can stay...As grouped
as they did last week,” Martin explained, “our chances are excellent.” The next home meet is a five-way affair with
St. Andrews, Gardner Webb, Campbell, and Wake Forest. “This is probably the biggest meet that will be held at Davidson
this year,” commented Martin. “It will be a good meet to show us where we stand in big meet competition.”

170 N. Main
Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus - Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.
HOURS: MON.-SAT. 10:00-5:00

Main Street, Davidson
For the Finest in Quality shop at the Pat Trexler Needle Cott. Wide Variety of Yarns. Crewel Embroidery, Needlepoint. Patterns.
Latch Hook Rugs, Kits & Accessories. Why not do the Davidson Wildcat in Needlepoint for a pillow or picture? Complete
Kit of Canvas Yarns and Charted Design, only $10.00 plus tax, also available as Latch Hook Rug. 892-8988

Machine defense. Sometimes, as has been the case often during this season, things do not go so well on the
football field. “When something like that happens,” the senior linebacker commented, “it is easy to get frustrated. But all you
can do is just line up and try again.”

Williamson feels that the team is going to jell into a winner now. He thinks the players have the “utmost
respect for Coach Fagg” and that together they have the talent to put things together during the remainder of the
season. He also is concerned with the future of football at Davidson. He thinks that it is very important for
the team to continue to play schools comparable to the ones they play now. “I think that it is a
challenge to play schools like East Carolina, Air Force, and others like them,” Williamson contended. “After all, if you romp
over a small, push-over school, you haven't accomplished anything.” Smiling, he added, “It’s when you can pull the wool over
a better team that you have played well.”

Off the gridiron, Williamson enjoys doing his work with the Y. He feels that it is important for kids to
be active in sports and to learn the idea of teamwork while they are still young. “It is really a
very rewarding thing to do, as far as I am concerned,” Williamson concluded.

After finishing here, the 6-0, 185-pound political science major plans to hang up his cleats in lieu of doing graduate
work in education. He is considering a career in the educational field, possibly in counseling. At any rate, he is
a man well aware of the needs of young people in society, who still enjoys the gridiron “warfare” on those
autumn afternoons.

WILLIAMSON

MEN! — WOMEN! JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00
for information, SEAFAX, Dept. 4-14 P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362.

DAVIDSON LIGHTWEIGHT CYCLES
Fine Bicycles And Accessories
117 Depot St. 892-0415

Congratulations to William J. Kehr Junior, William J. Kehr was the winner of the personal refrigerator won in an upperclassman
drawing conducted by the
