Page Ten March 2, 1973

The Frank Has
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

A powerhouse. That phrase may be an understatement in describing the tennis team at Davidson for 1973. Head Coach Jeff
Frank, working as an intern this season after the sudden death of Harry Fogleman, is really excited about the team's
chances this year. “We are really strong in all the positions,” the 28-year-old Davidson graduate conceded. “I think we have
a good chance to win the conference.”

Frank's optimism is by no means unwarranted. Returning from last year's squad is David Weaver, the number one singles champion
in the SC Tournament. The 6-0 senior is being pushed hard by Kevin Menton, an exchange student from Ireland. “Both
these boys are really playing well,” praised Frank. “They will really be giving each other a fit for the number
one spot.”

Frank predicted that it would be interesting to see how the two play against each other as the season progresses.
“They play opposite styles of tennis,” Frank explained. “Weaver has tremendous power. He likes to play the hard volley and
put the game away with quick shots. On the other hand, Menton plays a more consistent and slowly paced game.
He plays at the baseline and uses soft lobs and easy placement shots. He just waits it out.”

Frank went on to say he thought it would be especially interesting to see how Weaver will try to beat
Menton, who plays a very smart game. “I think it will be good for both of them,” said Frank.

Frank was also pleased with the play of Bill Allen, who is returning after finishing second in the number two
singles in the tourney last year. Frank said he thought Allen “had really developed good rhythm and timing. He has
also got his confidence up to a good peak.” Maarten Ruys is the other foreign player on the team. He
is a native of Holland.

(Staff photo by Goodman)
PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT
Kevin Menton brushes up on his backhand.

Benton, Webster Finish Cat Wrestling Careers
By JACK LINARD
Staff Writer

Rob Benton finished out his Davidson wrestling career last Saturday with a fourth-place finish in the Southern Conference Tournament at
William and Mary. Two others, Randy Webster and Bill Garrett, also finished their careers in the tourney.

Benton had a very tough draw, for he had to wrestle the tourney favorite from East Carolina. Benton lost his
match, thereby ending his winning streak at eight. In his second match, Benton came back to defeat the 132-pounder from
VMI for the second time this year. In the consolation match to determine third place, Benton ran up against a
tough wrestler from Appalachian State and suffered his second loss. This loss dropped him into fourth place in the standings.

Randy Webster was on his way to a possible consolation match and third place, but a dislocated kneecap forced him
to forfeit the match. At the time of his forfeit, he was in the lead of a very close match.

Davidson finished last in the seven-team tournament with four and one-half points, only one point behind Furman’s fifth-place finish. William
and Mary had seven individual champions and 113 points. William and Mary had the other three individual champions and took
second place overall.

While Davidson will certainly miss its four seniors, including co-captain Rusty Winchester who was injured last week, Parker noted that
there are some old and new prospects who could fill the void next year.is young (17 years old) and is
not used to playing outside the junior leagues yet,” explained Frank. “But he is strong, quick, has cat-like moves, and
shows streaks of sheer brilliance on the court.”

“Once he adapts to playing the adult game, everyone else will just have to stand back and watch,” said Frank.

These four pretty much have the top four seeds locked up at this point, with the opening match on Monday
against Purdue at Davidson. The last two seeds are a toss-up between senior Hay Lankenau, juniors Gary Bressler and Jim
Dorsett, and sophomore Rick Quinby. Bressler returns after winning the number five seed in the conference last year.

About the general condition of the team, Frank commented that he thought they were in excellent physical shape as well
as playing condition. He attributed this to the fact that the weather has been nice enough for the team to
have logged many hours on the courts.

“We have not been on the clay yet, but we hope to get there soon,” he said. “The northern schools
have only been inside on the hard courts and we ought to have a home court advantage on the clay.”

The attitude of the team is “super-positive,” according to Frank. “The guys are really up mentally and ready to work
and play hard,” he commented.

The schedule looms unmercifully in front of the Wildcats for this season.

High Hopes For ’73 Netters

Of 29 matches, the Cats play 20 at home, including a good many Northern teams who have agreed to play
for a night's lodging on their way to a Florida swing.

“We are lucky to get so many matches with a lot of good teams,” Frank said.

Included in the schedule will be tough road games at Duke, N.C. State, and UNC, which is one of the
top five teams in the country.

“It will really be a test of our quality when we go to Chapel Hill and meet the Tar Heels,”
Frank smiled. “It will be interesting to see how our boys perform.”

Other tough matches will include Furman, Harvard, and Penn.

“I think we have got great potential for this season,” concluded Frank. “With Weaver returning as champ in the number
one singles and Menton pushing him for that slot, we cannot help but be optimistic.”

Cornelius, N.C.

NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING
“We Rent Tux”
Phone 892-8064

Hattie’s Grill
HAPPY HOUR
Tues.-Fri.
Mugs — 20¢
Football Tournament every Wed. at 9
Prize for a two-man team is a half case of beer
7-8 Pitchers of 58 oz. — 1.00

PREGNANT
For confidential counseling
Call Toll Free

170 N. Main

REELS
Whatever you want, we’ve got
ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.

Jewel
WEI FEF 44 (Tb
Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N.C.

MOORESVILLE COMMUNITY THEATER presents
THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS
The Door, Overruled, A Marriage Proposal
CREATIVE ARTS CENTER

match. Wrestling Coach Charles Parker said of Bill Garrett's match, “He wrestled real well. He took the Appalachian heavyweight to
overtime before losing. That is not too bad for just his second year of collegiate wrestling.”

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7
8:00 P.M.
TICKETS: $6, $5, $4
ON SALE: COLISEUM BOX OFFICE
NATIONAL HAT SHOP
RECOR
MARCH 1, 2, 3, & 8, 9, 10
BAR- SOUTHPARK
ERNIES-COTS, East Carolina ran away with
8:15 P.M. $1.50 - $2.00
HI-FI SHOP. the team championship with
