LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
The Davidsonian
January 1, 1984

Five Letters Lay Bare Multiplex Opinions

Milord,

It pleases me forsooth to endeavor to explicate a seeming contradiction: namely, that that which is, is not, which is to say that he that was may have been, but is not, not any more, or will be any more. His rantings, ravings, rumblings and mumblings (numbingly) have gotten the best of him, or rather allowed the worst posthaste postnight to expurge the dark, to wit, Davoidson. Behold! My light is darkness, My mercy wrath; Alan Baragona is gone, drowned in my dust, blinded by eternal day in night, thirst unquenched by My never-flowing fount. He is gone, gone into My grasp, as you all go, going, gone: No more. I remain King, Kudzu ’73 Davoidson

To the Editor:

I would like to call all you Wildcat’s attention (Sorry, not you Wildkittens, as we shall see as the story flows on) to a magnificent Davidson tradition. A seemingly trivial occurance, it offers vast insight into our lives and situations, as do so many other “insignificant” phenomena which surround, and yet escape, our awareness. I speak of nothing other than the center wash-basin in the gentleman’s room in our hallowed library, which displays a leaking faucet which I have never, in my four years vigil, seen ceased. Neither a steady trickle nor a torrent, this drip-drip-drip-drip has, over the eons, eroded the porcelain from the sink which receives its bounty. The eminent philosopher Miles Ward was heard to exclaim upon his perception of the shrine, “everything drips on like this faucet.” And so it does.

Todd Eades ’74
Davidson College

A series of short summaries of films currently playing in the Carolinas.

‘Poseidon Adventure’ - Neptune goes Greek as he wields his trident to best advantage.
“Deep Throat” - The heroic story of a pioneer laryngologist in the early days of the Metropolitan opera.
What will Linda Lovelace think of next?
“Across 110th Street” - A two hour film by Yoko Ono about a fly in Harlem.
“Shaft” - An enfant’s X-rated sequel to “Irma la Douce.”
“Dirty Harry” - Pigpen grows up.
“The Andromeda Strain” - The world’s worst hernia.
“Westworld” - A sequel to “Eastworld.”
“Slaughterhouse 5” - Five men conspire to steal 50 pounds of beef.
“Anne of the Thousand Days” - Linda Lovelace plays the title role of a girl who can’t get enough.
“The Gang That Couldn’t Shoot Straight” - An informal history of Davidson basketball.
“High Rise” - An elevator runs amok.
“I am Curious, Yellow” - Chou en-Lai enquires about a visit to the United States.
“Cool Hand Luke” - The tragic story of a modern-day search for truth entitled “The Tear-Stained Life of a Modern-Day Odysseus; Satyricon II,” or “How I Withdrew from the Sin of Man,” by Robert Shearer.

To the Editor:

Does Dave Fagg really know all the latest dance steps?

Bob Mosketti
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Yes.

Dave Fagg
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I’m opposed to it.

George L. Abernethy
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I was encouraged last week to read Lynn Dean’s account of ventures into the wild. It was only recently that I myself made a few steps into the unknown. My first adventure came on the Honors Center Rocky-Ridge picnic. We all drank spring water, and there were cows in the vicinity. Even scarier was the fact that we couldn’t wash our hands. This winter I’m living on the Rocky River near Bush Fork (i.e. Fork You) with an old mountain man, Rocky Hennis. He sure does like his ham! Once I was walking home and stepped on a baby mole. Within seconds his mother was at me, and you know how vicious mama moles can get. The only way I could escape was by running wiggle-ways. I outsmarted her!

At this time, I am constructing a science. It is a new slant on ecology. I call it Proctology. Best wishes in camping.

J. Harris Proctor
Rocky River

To the Editor:

I would like to point out that Alonzo M. Cohen, noted Paraguayan Linguist, is not included in this lampoon anywhere. I feel that this is an injustice and a slap in the spirit of lampoons past. It is also an affront to God, a being almost as close to Mr. Cohen as to me. In the words of that noted philosopher: “Mxon Kitsme caoktoama Bill Roland.”

Earl MacCormac
Yale University

To the Editor:

Once again, the SPE’s have pricked the outrage of the social system connoisseur. They have once again rushed past the most enjoyable phase: the time between the first penetration of the freshmen into the social system and the final climax of ejection from Slater into their brotherhood. Those of us who realize the fun can only shake our heads in sorrow.

Mitch Purvis ’74
Davidson College

Entertainment

A special reading of secular poetry and prose will be given on Jan. third and fifth in the basement of the E. H. Little Library. Featured will be a number of short pieces written by members of the Davidson community. Prominent among these poems is the story of a modern-day search for truth entitled “The Tear-Stained Life of a Modern-Day Odysseus; Satyricon II,” or “How I Withdrew from the Sin of Man,” by Robert Shearer. Tickets are available at Will Terry’s office. A donation of 17 cents is asked. Sponsored by the Inter-Varsity Christian Fund.story of a man who can find no self-fulfillment. “Walking Tall” - The biography of Mickey “Goal.” “Save.” - A counter-culture sequel to “Bang the Drum Slowly” - One Man’s plea.

To the Editor:
The world is flat. If God had intended man to fly, he would have given him wings. All aspirin’s alike. It’s amazing how truisms survive, isn’t it.
Chalmers Davidson ’28
Davidson College

To the Editor:
Every time I think of how much you hurt, I hurt.
E. P. Throntin
Myrtle Beach, S.C.

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN

Professor Amazed By Uncanny Wit
By ALEXANDER J. MCKELWAY
Professor of Religion

I will not write down my thoughts just yet, but will let them flow from my soul in sublime order, expressing my brilliance, my unsurpassed intellect, my uncanny wit, (I could go on), with literary magnificence, in that clear prose style reverberating with obscure allusions. I will give you counsel; my advice is sound but you find it inaudible. Oh my pseudo-students, innocuous saps, why do I waste my time casting my pearls in your pig sty? But no, I must not think of that right now. I will write some trivial words, sage advice, a faculty guest column of which you may be able to understand half, only after I have allowed my thoughts to run their course. I shall take a moment from my busy schedule, (though it be only a moment, it is far more valuable than the hours of other men), and bask in delight as my stream of consciousness widens into rivers of heavy water, seas of ideas, oceans of well-developed conceits. Oh, the estrangement I feel, not being able to express myself in simplistic style so that you students, arrogant students who consider yourselves sufficiently literate to read THE DAVIDSONIAN, which you pompously proclaim a “literary publication,” might understand in part the complexity of thought which fills my being. But before I write, I will sit here at my cluttered desk with my feet propped up on piles of inane term papers, stroking my goatee, puffing tobacco, filling the air with aromatic candor, trying to overcome that impenetrable wall which separates me from my students, brilliance from ignorance, shit from fans, the quick from the dead. My thought is so eloquent, so complex, even I am amazed by my profundity. No shit. Oh you dim-witted, scum of the earth. Students. You have caused me to ramble in my thoughts. But you shall never know; I certainly do not ramble in my lectures. No, I softly woo you in my classroom; you sit stunned by my superiority, you slumber in turbid discomfort, unable to grasp the message I proclaim. But I will fill you with frenzied fear on the day of my review. I will leave you alone in the classroom to duplicate the little, the infinitesimal; that meager portion of my knowledge which has somehow penetrated your dense skulls in spite of yourselves. Yes, I will leave you alone; you will be frightened not to have me there. You will come whimpering to kneel at my feet, beg me to return to the classroom where you sit alone. You are lonely because you realize you have no thought of your own. You come to me as empty vessels, and I fill you with my wisdom, something you can get your teeth into, something which will fill the cavities of your mind with much more precious material than the gold which fills the cavities of your teeth. You wonder why admissions to Davidson is so tough. You ask with that innocent, stupid gaze of awe why you must have shown such great character and personality in high school. The answer is simple. So we can deny it all; deny that you exist, realize that you do not reach personhood until you graduate. What have I done? Oh wretch that I am, you students have so polluted my mind with your inane dribble that I just committed the ultimate insult to myself. I posed a hypothetical question from a student, and then I answered it. Students don’t deserve answers. I never answer your questions in class. You ask “Why?” and I tell you: Because students don’t deserve answers. I manage to avoid them always. Oh no! I did it again. I swear never again to pose a hypothetical question from a student and answer it. Indeed, I will never answer a student's question. What would Karl Barth say? I discourage questions. I prohibit discussion. You are here to hear my lectures. If you did outside study, you would realize my lectures aren’t worth the 50 minutes you could spend in study. I thrive because you do not study. I suppress the ones of you who do. You dolts: you students, fanatics, you put me in the predicament, but I will not let you get away with it. You must try to figure out what I know and think despite my But my organized thoughts have flowed long enough. I must now start on my faculty guest column. Let’s see, “a Davidson professor needs no introduction; I’ll start in the middle . . . “The mass of professors lead lives of quiet dissertation . . .”