October 12, 1973

The Davidsonian

Wildcats Face Hungry Furman Team

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

When the Davidson Wildcats travel to Furman tomorrow for their encounter with the Paladins, they will be facing a team hungry for victory. In their last two contests, the Paladins took close defeats at the hands of two Southern Conference powerhouses, East Carolina and Richmond. Against the former, Furman was able to hold the explosive running attack of the Pirates in low gear and allowed the offense two touchdowns for a 14-3 loss. Last week against the Spiders, the Paladins ended a three-game shutout streak for their opponents and came within a hair of upsetting them, dropping by a score of 20-17.

Needless to say, the Cats did not fare nearly as well as the common opponents that they and the Paladins have encountered. The Furman squad bested Appalachian by 17-4 and Wofford by 21-19 in addition to the two previously mentioned games. Davidson, however, lost to ECU (45-0), Richmond (42-0), the Mountaineers (24-8), and the Terriers (23-0).

“Furman has a really strong ball club,” commented Davidson head coach Dave Fagg. “They will really be tough on their home field.”

The Paladins have been successful with their offense thus far this season in compiling a 3-2 overall won-lost record. They have put together a balanced offensive attack which will be a true test of the Cats’ defensive ability. After giving up 492 yards total offense to ECU last week, including over 300 on the ground, the Davidson squad will be faced with the necessity to bounce back before making trips to William and Mary and the Air Force Academy in the two succeeding weeks.

“Our defense will have to stop the run better than we did against ECU,” Fagg stated. “They just ran all over us.” The Paladins, though, have gotten 834 net yards by the rush. They have a solid backfield which gives them great versatility on the running plays. Passing is another strong point for the Furman club. They have amassed 602 more yards through the air. As a team, they are also completing just over 61 percent of their pass attempts.

Defensively they will also prove to be a problem for the Cats. The Paladins have been rather weak on the rush, the same area in which the Cats have had their problems offensively. Against the pass, the Furman boys have limited their five opponents to only 362 yards for an average of about 72 yards per game.

The game will be a must for the Cats who have dropped their last two contests and four of their five games. This is the beginning of a tough five-game road trip which will end the season for Davidson. In last year’s meeting, the Cats were able to prevail over the Paladins on Richardson Field.

OUT OF REACH (Staff photo by Goodman)
After scrambling away from the E.C.U. rush, quarterback David Harper eludes a linebacker on the way to a short gain.

Fagg Seeks Beginning Of ‘New’ Season

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

(Ed Note: Recently sports editor Gordon Widenhouse talked to head football coach Dave Fagg about the football team in general and what he hopes can be accomplished during the remaining five contests the Wildcats have to play. Here is...his analysis.) Davidson football is in a bind. First, it lacks money to recruit and build a strong major college program. Second, the physical size of the Cats in relation to their opponents puts them at a definite disadvantage. Third, the team, limited in number by administration policy, suffers greatly from any injuries it sustains. Fourth, the team has been plagued by execution inconsistency under game circumstances.

Dave Fagg, head coach of the Wildcats, is not a man who is going to give up, even under the previous circumstances. Some may call him crazy for this position, but that would not faze him to any great extent. At any rate, Fagg and his staff are taking the present situation, which includes a 1-4 record with three tough teams still on the schedule, into their own hands with the idea of playing a five-game season, beginning with Furman tomorrow night.

“We have simply had some mental breakdowns when it came down to executing the proper plays under actual game circumstances,” explained Fagg. “People just failed to concentrate enough and as a result the execution just failed.”

Upon being asked what he planned to do to attempt to correct the situation, Fagg stated that he would try to “simplify the offensive scheme” in hopes of gaining better performance in the coming five games. “We have just lacked the offensive consistency that is essential to playing winning football,” Fagg said. “Against ECU even our defense fell through under the great pressure that was placed upon them. But the thrust of the problem the Cats face seems to be the offense. Plagued by a lack of consistency to mount any sort of a drive, the Cats have given the ball up and handed their opposition excellent field position. We have not had the stability to complete a 70-yard drive,” Fagg said.

He did have praise for quarterback Dave Harper. “I think Harper has done a good job leading the team,” Fagg remarked. “He just has not gotten the protection he needed in too many instances.”

But Fagg wants to win and he is not to be very easily discouraged into giving up the rest of the season. “We want to win and we know what we have to do,” Fagg stated. “We have to come up with some near-perfect execution on offense and defense.” Where many would be easily incited to give up at this point, Fagg is far from reaching that status. He summed up the situation, as far as inconsistency goes by saying that, “Sometimes the individual has to come through. He has to rise and meet the challenge.”

When the “new” season starts tomorrow night in Greenville, the opportunity to rise up will have arrived.

HATTIE'S HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30
IMPORTED BEERS
Now Serving The “Hattie” Cheeseburger

Faye Dunaway
Warren Beatty
Love Auditorium
Fri. & Sat. Adm. $.50
D.C. Pop Films Presents
Bonnie & Clyde
Door Prize At Every Show
RATED [R] + CARTOON
Oct. 12 & 13 8 & 10 P.M.