(Staff photo by Goodman)

I WALK THE LINE — John Falconi drives around Furman’s Ross Hunt.

Falconi Named To First Team As All-SC Picks Announced

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Two Davidson players were in the top ten in the Southern Conference when the SC Sportswriters Association announced their all-conference
team. John Falconi was the Wildcat named to the first team. The 6-5 junior wingman for the Cats was a
repeat from last year’s team. He paced the Cats in scoring this season with a 16.2 average. He was third
on the team in field goal percentage, hitting at a 51.0 clip. The Falcon led the team in free throw
shooting as he hit 79.2 percent of his charity shots. He was second on the team in assists.

Joining Falconi on the first team were Steve Fishel, Citadel; Fessor Leonard and Clyde Mayes, Furman; and Aron Stewart, Richmond.
Fishel is the lone senior on the first team. Falconi and Stewart are juniors, while Mayes and Leonard are just
sophomores.

On the second team was Davidson sophomore Greg Dunn. The 6-5 swingman, who has been called one of the best
one-on-one players in Wildcat history, averaged 14.5 points per game for the Cats. He was second on the team in
rebounding with a 5.1 average.

DUNN

Soccer Team Encounters Recruiting Difficulties

By FORD NEWMAN
Staff Writer

Tom Tornee, a soccer-playing sophomore, sees the future of the Davidson soccer team as extremely uncertain due to the death
of the team's coach Harry Fogleman last December. Tornee has devised several schemes for recruiting players, but in the absence
of a coach, he has found problems.

Tornee’s original plan for recruiting was to obtain from the Admissions Office the names of those applicants who have had
previous soccer experience in order to write them letters encouraging them to come to Davidson. But due to a breakdown
in cooperation from the Admissions Office, Tornee has had to abandon this idea and appeal to the students for help
in recruiting.

“We would like for anybody who knows a high school soccer player who might come to Davidson to please get
in touch with him and inform him of Davidson's strong soccer organization and winning tradition," said Tornee. Tornee hopes that
student interest and pride in their soccer team, as indicated by the large crowds during the soccer season, will stimulate
student participation in this special recruitment program.

The soccer club experienced a lay-off last weekend due to a cancellation but will be back in action again at
3 p.m. Sunday at Rock Hill against the Rock Hill soccer club. The team remains undefeated with a record of
4-0-1 with “nine or ten more games to play this season. “We'll be more exciting this spring when the warmer
weather brings out most of the varsity players," Tornee speculated.

The Davidsonian — March 2, 1973 Page Nine

Cats Keep Streak Alive Romping Over Dayton

By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

Davidson will take a five-game winning streak into the Southern Conference Tournament this weekend as a result of an 84-67
whipping of Dayton. The Cats started off quickly in the first half and built up an early lead. Davidson had
trouble holding this lead, however, as a result of Dayton’s Donald Smith’s shooting and referee Harold Johnson's frequent technical foul
calls. The half ended with Smith scoring 17 points and Dayton leading 40-38. Johnson had called five technical fouls, four
of which were on Davidson.

John Pecorak, reacting to his first non-start this season, had a great first half hitting five of seven from the
field and scoring a total of 12 points. Pecorak also was injured in the first half when he was on
the receiving end of a Dayton elbow causing a bad nosebleed.

After allowing Dayton to keep its lead early in the second half, Davidson exploded for 15 straight points which turned
a 46-42 deficit into a 57-46 lead. After this outburst, the Cats’ victory was never in doubt. Davidson went into
a zone late in the game, and this time the Cats added on to their lead instead of letting it
close as they have done in some earlier games. This time the zone cut off Dayton’s big scorer Smith and
allowed the Cats to pull for 10 from the free throw line.

Larry Horowitz scored 17 points and had 18 rebounds, a team high this season. The Pecorak brothers scored 14 points
apiece despite John having to sit out periods in both halves because of his nosebleed. The Cats' shooting was not
quite as good as it has been most of the season.

Dunn, who hails from Youngstown, Ohio, was second on the team in field goal accuracy, hitting on 51.1 percent of
his shots. Joining Dunn on the second team were Earl Quash, ECU; Roy Simpson, Furman; Stan Davis, Appalachian; and Mike
Arizin, William and Mary. The biggest surprise was the omission of Ross Hunt, senior wingman for Furman, who was last
year's SC Player of the Year.The year, but their 39 percent was good enough to win this game. Davidson’s defense
forced poor shooting on the part of Dayton as they only shot 30 percent. This game ends Davidson's regular season
schedule with a record of 16-8. Dayton has two games remaining and their record is now 12-12. In the other
game last week, Davidson played The Athletes in Action Eastern team. This game was an exhibition and therefore does not
count on the Cats’ record. Coach Terry Holland’s charges played sluggishly and lost 94-93, with the winning basket coming in
the last three seconds on a driving layup by the A.I.A.’s Mike McCoy. It seemed that everyone at Davidson took
this game lightly, as the crowd was sparse. Those who did go to the game heard testimonials from the A.I.A.
players about their life with Jesus Christ, which made the game unique and also interesting. The leaders for the Cats
were T. J. Pecorak and Larry Horowitz, who each scored 18 points. Greg Dunn also scored 14 points, despite missing
nine foul shots in 17 attempts. Ron Stelzer, former Davidson basketball player, added 11 points for the Athletes in Action,
who were led by Big Dave Schneider’s 27 points. Despite this setback, the Cats are still going into the Tournament
playing well and should go with confidence.

Verlin, Duncan, Yeaton Pace Wildkittens To Final 9-5 Mark
By BOB WETZEL
Asst. Sports Editor

Davidson's J.V. Cagers concluded their season Saturday night with a 70-62 win over Wake Forest J.V.'s at Winston-Salem. The Wildkittens
overcame a 36-29 half-time deficit to grab their ninth victory against five defeats. Eppa Rixey and Joe Duncan led the
way with 13 points apiece, while Tom Verlin chipped in 12. Rixey was also the big man on the boards
with seven rebounds. Kirk Combe pulled down six more for the Wildkittens. Wake Forest was led by Henry Hicks who
came up with 16 points and six rebounds for the losers.

Davidson J.V. Coach Jim Larranaga was pleased with the victory and the season as well. “We've had a small team,
so we needed to put a lot of pressure on our opponents. Our people did a super job in maintaining
their composure in most of the contest,” he said. The Wildkittens have sported an ever-changing cast of performers during the
season due to injuries and promotions to the varsity. Larranaga said that this was a problem for his team. “It's
tough to jell in the face of frequent personnel changes. But we realize that it’s our principal job to prepare
people for the varsity. This often requires the shuffling of players between squads,” he stated.

Larranaga was free with praise for his players. “Jay Powell did a great job for us before moving up to
the varsity. But after Jay left, Tom Verlin came through for us in a big way. He became a leader
both on and off the court,” he said. Verlin led the team in scoring with a 19-point average. Larranaga pointed
out that Ed Yeaton, the team's leading rebounder, had really had a tough job to handle. He said, “Ed's not
a true center, but he provided us with the consistent board play we needed when Rixey and Vandergriend were injured.
Eppa did come back to help Ed a lot in the last five games, and improved with each outing. Eppa’s
a hard worker and could be really tough as soon as his shoulder is 100 percent,” he said.

Larranaga termed Bob Vandergriend’s early season injury an unfortunate one. “He was just beginning to gain the needed experience and
confidence,” the J.V. coach commented. Larranaga noted that Vandy did do a good job against Wake Forest in the squad's
final outing, his first game since mid-December. Larranaga praised Duncan's explosiveness. “Joe’s like a bomb. When he’s on, he can
turn a game around by himself,” he said. Duncan had several good scoring performances in the season's later games and
finished with a 10.5 scoring average.

The quiet man on the team had to be Kirk Combe. “Combe is a very sound player with good basic
skill,” remarked Larranaga. “He took the initiative and became one of our finest shooters.” Bobby Evans and Jeff Plowman also
came in for some of the coach's praise. Larranaga called Plowman “the most pleasant surprise of the season, just a
super defensive player.” He termed Evans a solid performer. Reserve board strength was provided in most instances by Jud Cuttino
and Mike Harding. Larranaga said that Cuttino “came off the bench in many situations and did the good job on
the boards that we need.” He called Harding “the hardest worker I’ve ever seen in practice. Mike’s a team player
first.”

The young coach pointed out that most of these players have varsity potential. “Summer is the breaker for these players,”
he noted. “Working on the weak points are the factors that determine who will be on the varsity next fall,”
he concluded.
