Page Eight February 16, 1973 The Davidsonian

Horowitz Leads Wildcats Past Furman
Davidson Wins 89-84 As Horowitz Hits 31, Team Approaches Sixth Conference Title
By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

Someone forgot to tell Larry Horowitz that Furman was supposed to dominate play near the bucket. This oversight allowed Davidson
to move closer to its sixth straight Southern Conference regular season title by beating the Paladins 89-84. Many Davidson fans
hope that Horowitz remains ignored for the rest of the games this season.

Horowitz's 31 points, coming off the bench, is a new scoring high for the Wildcats this season and earned him
a starting role. But despite this, Larry was not alone when one looked for stars in this game. John Falconi
had a good night, adding 17 points along with a good number of feeds to Horowitz, which either resulted in
baskets or trips to the foul line. Greg Dunn had another good game with 16 points and five assists. The
last star for the Wildcats would have to be Jay Powell, who with three minutes remaining had not scored a
point and was playing just a fair game. In those last three minutes, Powell managed to pick up seven straight
points while Furman could only tally two. Each of these players deserves credit, but last Monday night belonged to Horowitz,
who must be looking to take Eric Minkin’s spot on the Jewish All-America team.

Horowitz started off with a bang when he was substituted into the game after about three minutes of play. He
scored 12 straight Davidson points and made a 10-5 deficit into a 17-14 lead. By this point, Horowitz could do
little wrong and at the half he had 18 points and had not missed any of his five field goal
attempts. Horowitz continued his great play in the second half and two of his 13 second-half points came on a
“Horrible” 20-foot jump shot which proved he could do little wrong. Despite all of Horowitz's heroics and most of Furman’s
big men in foul trouble, the Paladins stayed in the game, and it was not until Powell's scoring spurt that
the Wildcats could claim the victory.

All the Cats need now is a victory over Appalachian to capture another Conference title and go into the tournament
as the number one seed. In the other game last week, Davidson beat The Citadel 85-75. The word “game” is
used very loosely in this case as it had to be one of the poorest exhibitions of basketball ever to
be put on television. The most exciting thing which happened all day was mascot Dave Bender's high-flying act before the
game. After that, everything seemed to go downhill. Against the weak Bulldogs, Davidson committed 24 first-half turnovers but still led
at intermission 32-29 (that must be some sort of record). While “only” committing 13 turnovers in the second half, the
Cats pulled away and eventually won by 10. Horowitz, Dunn, T. Pecorak, Paul Wagner, and Falconi all scored in double
figures. Horowitz prepared for his game against Furman by pulling down 15 rebounds to go along with his 18 points.
Dunn also had 18 points while T. Jay Pecorak and Wagner had 16 and 12 respectively. Falconi had nine assists
to go with his 11 points. Jay Jay Powell sat this game out in order to make himself eligible for
the Conference tournament. Jay had played in an extra scrimmage while still on the J.V.'s and had to miss a
game to make him eligible.

SHOOT IT THIS WAY
Horowitz goes up for a shot.

Basketball Players Disavow Rumors Of Team Dissension
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Criticism can sometimes be very destructive. This is especially true with an athletic team during the course of the 1972-
(Staff photos by Goodman)

Grapplers Rout Weak Pfeiffer
By JACK LINARD
Staff Writer

In a match that was so short that many spectators were not yet seated when it ended, Davidson College's wrestling
team routed Pfeiffer College, 58-0. The reason for the short match was that Pfeiffer had only four men on its
wrestling team, of whom three were pinned. After PeterHotchkiss and Rob Jacobs picked up forfeits, Rob Benton got an easy
first-period pin by using his favorite hold, the figure four on the head. Jim Knights evened his dual meet record
at 2-2 with a major decision on the only Pfeiffer wrestler to last all eight minutes of the match. Dave
Cormack received a forfeit, and then John Kennelly got a third-period pin. Randy Webster finished off the night's wrestling with
another first-period pin. “This match was entirely for fun,” mused Dave Cormack. The next match would have been even more
fun because UNCC has only two men on its team. It was canceled, more or less, making the next appearance
for the grapplers the Southern Conference meet next weekend. The conference championships will be held in Williamsburg, Va. on the
23rd and 24th at William & Mary. Davidson has a good chance to take three medals in the meet. Rob
Benton in the 134 lb. class and Rusty Winchester at 142 lb. represent the team’s best chances. If John Scandling
is healthy again in time for the meet, he stands a very good chance to score in the 150 lb.
division. The team’s chances as a whole are not so optimistic. Coach Charles Parker expects that Davidson should be able
to beat only Furman and The Citadel in the meet.

Throughout the 73 basketball season, there have been numerous rumors of dissension and criticism of the style basketball Head Coach
Terry Holland has been employing. However, according to three players, there is no dissension on the team now. Mike Sorrentino,
the junior point man for the Wildcats, is definitely disappointed with the performance the Wildcats have shown thus far. He
attributes this to the “team as a whole, the players as well as the coaches.” Sorrentino feels that the team’s
record could have been as high as 22-0. “We could have won all of our games,” the former Archbishop Molloy
standout said. “Everyone feels that way. But the blame should not rest on the coaches. Everyone has made mistakes and
we have had a lot of bad breaks.”

Captain John Pecorak explained the situation saying, “Each player on this club is an individual. It is really hard to
please everyone. At the beginning of the season, there were probably ten players that felt they should be playing a
lot. Everyone cannot play, though. I think that everyone is satisfied to just play as much as they can and
take it in stride if they do not play a lot,” he explained. “I think Coach Holland maintains the best
possible relations with the players on the team,” Pecorak continued. “He has explained the situation of having so many good
players to us and we know that some of us cannot play that much all the time.” Pecorak went on
to establish the point that he felt there was no dissension among the players now. “I think that our friendships
have grown and molded us together as a unit,” he said.

Younger brother T. Jay was with his brother and he agreed with the elder’s analysis. “I think that Coach Holland
has done the best job possible,” he said. “What people do not realize is that there are mostly high school
all-Americans or standouts on this team. Not everyone is going to be able to play,” he explained. “We have learned
that, with a bunch of good players, you have to think of the team first.” He went on to state
that he felt the losses the team had encountered thus far were not the fault of the coaches. Evidently, there
is very little criticism from the inside. No doubt the win over Furman should keep morale high. The logical conclusion
would be to save the rumors for a more deserving occurrence. It is quite clear that they are not needed
with the basketball squad. Now it seems that the Wildcats have not only the momentum and the desire, but also
the team spirit to go after the Southern Conference Tournament title as a unit. The players feel that the attitude
is right. It is time for the fans’ attitudes to follow their lead.

JOHN PECORAK
