Page Two
September 14, 1973
The Davidsonian

Scott Responds To Problems Concerning ARA Food Service
By KATHERINE MORTON
Staff Writer

Each year, students have difficulties adjusting to the Slater Food Service at Davidson, as well as the service adjusting to
the whims of the students. It takes about two weeks for people to settle down to a bit of consistency,
according to Ron Scott, director of ARA Slater. “The freshmen, especially, have problems figuring out this complex system, and learning
to benefit from it.”

Students may not realize it, but the food service has problems too. Sometimes Slater must do without food orders because
they come in a few days late. Scott plans to start posting a menu as soon as the food orders
begin coming in on a consistent basis.

As last year, iced tea, coffee, and punch are 15 cents each, with no limit on refills. If two cups
or more are taken, however, students will be charged for two. “This helps cut down on the number of cups
used, as some people have used as many as 10 cups per meal. These cups run the food service about
five cents apiece. This can be looked at from the ecological viewpoint as a way to cut down on waste.
It also would be a primary factor in saving some money each meal,” Scott said.

Another question that has arisen involves the Bailey House. Dinner at Bailey House does not include dessert with the price
of a meal. It includes a salad, potato, vegetable, roll, and butter. Another reminder is that if anyone gets a
refill at Richards or Bailey Houses, he is asked to stop by the cash register on his way out.

Two other things Scott is concerned about have to do with being mooched upon, and the protection of your meal
tickets. In Rusk House, the problem has arisen of one person feeding others through his option of not being permitted.
Scott also brought out an important point about the meal tickets. “I have noticed several people carrying their entire meal
booklets around with them. Books have been lost, and are difficult to trace. Such a loss means either going hungry,
or buying another set,” he said. Scott was very concerned about this, and urged that a person should carry around
only one ticket, and leave the rest where they will be safe.

Another problem with meal tickets involves the practice of splitting the ticket into two halves. People who have done this
find that they are left holding a worthless half, and must face the consequences.

A meeting is planned for the very near future, in which Ron Scott will answer any questions students might have
about the food service. “I want to make an effort to hear what students have to say about the food
service, whether they be pro or con. I have received little feedback from the students because the majority have not
taken the time to come by and see me,” he said.

$1 Transcript Fee Again
The Registrar's Office has announced that effective on July 1 the fee for each transcript, after the complimentary initial one,
is $1. This represents a change from the $2 fee in effect for the past two years. Registrar Richard C.
Burts Jr. explained, “The prior fee of $2, after the complimentary initial one, was a ‘loader’ fee and in a
sense was pre-payment for the supplementary transcript which was later issued at no fee. Our experience showed two difficulties with
the $2 fee: first, a significant number of our students and alumni did not ever request a supplementary transcript and
in that sense did not get full benefit of the $2 fee. Second, a good number of students and some
alumni asked for and received supplementary transcripts well in excess of the one intended in the fee.

“Of course, the $2 fee worked well in many cases, too, but the inequities of ‘too few or too many’
led us to establish a fee of $1 for each transcript, after the complimentary initial one. We are simply dropping
the concept of free transcripts and supplementary transcripts. I think the fairness of the new fee will be apparent to
all and will be well accepted.”

Gaige Expands Foreign Study
By JIM PAULSEN
Contributing Editor

Through his position as Director of the International Education Office, South Asian Studies Professor Frederick H. Gaige hopes to expand
foreign study abroad to include more opportunities for full year study and development.of more short-term foreign study opportunities. “I personally
believe that every Davidson student should have some experience of living abroad in a study or work situation,” he said.
Gaige feels that more short-term study abroad programs, similar to the present Classics Abroad Seminar in which students travel with
a professor in Greece and Italy for one school term, will become available. “I would be pleased to see Davidson
faculty developing one-term or summer study abroad programs which could be designed to each department’s standards,” he said. Gaige pointed
out that such study-travel would help to bring Davidson faculty and students closer together. “With the exception of some of
the hard science disciplines, there are foreign studies which could be organized in any department,” said Gaige. Another focus which
he plans to implement is working with freshmen in planning their curriculum around plans to study abroad. “I think it
is possible for a freshman, whether pre-med, pre-law or pre-doctorate, to organize his courses so he can spend a year
abroad without jeopardizing his chances to enter graduate school,” Gaige indicated. Gaige emphasized that there are all kinds of international
experiences available to Davidson students including both study programs and work opportunities. “I don’t see any precipitous increase in Davidson
students studying abroad, but I would like to see a rise in the number of students involved in the foreign
studies program,” he said. Besides making other cultures come alive, Gaige remarked that foreign study sharpens the perceptions of our
own culture and enhances the development of empathy between different cultures. “I believe that international studies and experience of living
abroad are integral parts of a liberal arts education,” Gaige concluded.

Coeds Demonstrate Enthusiasm For Expanded P.E. Programs
By ANDREW LAMAS
Staff Writer

Coeds have expressed a great deal of enthusiasm for this year’s physical education program. In fact, girls are participating in
every sports activity except flickerball and wrestling. Ms. Lynn Malloney, a new addition to the athletic staff, is instructing two
classes in ballet and modern dance for both male and female students. Several other coeds are instructors for the swimming
and lifesaving classes. Coeds have the same physical education requirements as male students. Swimming and sailing are the most popular
sports for coeds. More than one-half of the females are enrolled in these activities. The newest additions to the physical
education program are women’s gymnastics and ballet. Gymnastic events for women are being offered: free exercise, vaulting, balance beam, and
women’s gymnastics. Several coeds have expressed interest in a synchronized swimming course. “We’re open to suggestions for new programs,” stated
Stone. “We plan to begin field hockey and synchronized swimming courses next year when facilities are available.” “Many of the
girls are very interested in participating in sports and many plan to continue enrolling in P.E. classes even after they
have completed their requirements,” commented Laurie Dunn, a freshman coed.

STUDY ROOMS AVAILABLE

Rooms 211, 213, and 215 in Chambers have been designated as study rooms from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. each
day, announced Richard C. Burts Jr. Classes will be held in the rooms during the day. “If there is demonstrated
need for additional space, more can be made available. Because of security considerations, rooms A and B in Phil Hall
will not be available this year as all-night study rooms.”
