Davidson Art Show: Balloons, Good Art In Cunningham

A REVIEW By GARY GARVIN Staff Writer

Last Sunday the student art show opened in Cunningham with lots of balloons and some good art. The show is
devoted primarily to paintings and graphics from students of Art Professors Houchens and Jackson. (Only one sculpture!) There are also
some selections from Buck Lawrimore’s photography class — a new addition to the fine arts curriculum. As a whole, while
not highly innovative, the show does reflect some good solid studies of contemporary trends and techniques.

First prize again went to a painting by Ken Freed, who has established himself as the most promising art student
in recent years. His latest works show a thorough study of texture and color as developed in a loosely constructed
perspective space. The illusion of space is suggested, yet contradicted by the physical qualities of the textured paint, thus establishing
a tension between implied and actual space. More of the famous Freed nudes are placed in some works, where representation
has yielded to the dynamic qualities of the paint.

Second prize went to the other major student of art, Kes Woodward. His winning work also develops texture, in a
large predominantly yellow field study. Vince Rabil won third place with his precise figurative dry brush work. The other awards
went to graphic studies. Honorable mentions went to Andy Ingles’ etching and to George King’s watercolor. Two purchase awards went
to the expressive portraits of George Crowell’s engraving and Mark Green's watercolor. The other purchase award went to Jim McNair’s
pencil drawing. Tucker Cooke, professor at UNC-Asheville, was the judge for the awards.

Professor Houchens arranged the show. This year he made a very effective selection and presentation of the works, vital to
a show's success. The works were matted, well presented, and given ample spacing. Last year, when everyone’s roommate had a
work in the show, it was crowded and cluttered, thus lessening the impact of the superior works. While the show
should present a sampling of student work in general, it should also be a good show, representing the quality of
art at Davidson. This, of course, means devoting more space to those students who have spent the most time and
shown the most promise in their studies. And if this means a show with a large number of Woodward's and
Freed’s works, there is certainly no loss in this. The current show is a good one, and reflects the high
quality of student art at Davidson.

Abbott Directs Thomas Drama

Next Wednesday and Thursday nights, May 16 and 17, at 8:15 p.m. in the Morrison Room, Dylan Thomas’ play for
voices, “Under Milk Wood”, will be read. “Under Milk Wood”, completed by Thomas and presented under his own direction in
New York only a few months before his tragic death in 1953, is considered among his greatest works. The original
text, which contains over 63 parts, has been edited for the Davidson reading by English Professor Anthony Abbott who feels
that the play will be easier for audiences to follow with the number of characters reduced and the total length
shortened. The seven readers will be Abbott, who is directing the performance, Barbara Fagg, Robert Long, Robert Manning, Ethel Rhodes,
Robin Rhodes, and Ellen Winkler.inexpensive! Now is a good chance to start your collection.

REFRESHMENTS, BALLOONS AND ART

Opening this week, the art show features the best in painting and graphics by Davidson students. Contemporary techniques are employed
in much of the work. (Staff photos by Goodman)

May 11, 1973

Page Seven

Students Perform Superbly In ‘Wandering,’ ‘Loveliest Day’

A REVIEW By BOB BOLICK Staff Writer

6:45—Make-up call. Liquid 2A base. Clown white. Hey Wini, I can’t put on this eyeliner. Rouge. Hairspray.

7:25—Let's go, “Wandering” cast.

7:30 and out we go. Where's the audience? ‘‘Oh well, wot the hell.”

‘‘Wandering’’ presented a series of extremely short vignettes, and all together it lasted about eight minutes. That’s not much time
to establish six or seven different character types. Blain Butner showed exactly how it ought to be done. Butner played
Him, the character whose life span is covered in the eight minutes. He pulled the whole thing off with posture
changes and voice variation. Beth Ziebe did a commendable job moving from mother to nurse to secretary to wife, etc.

The second play, ‘‘Loveliest Day of the Afternoon’’, was well chosen for its hilarious lines. Bob Wright and Susan Englander
were superb. Their timing of delivery was carefully executed and added a great deal to the comedy of the play.
This was the best performance by Bob Wright I have ever seen. It will be interesting to see if his
directing is as good as his acting when he presents Tennessee Williams’ one act play ‘‘Long Stay Cut Short, or
The Unsatisfactory Supper.”

‘‘Loveliest Day’’ was well directed. Sarah Hill seems to have successfully matched blocking with the movement from genuine pathos to
uproarious comedy in the play. The kiss and the turn at the beginning which moves you from past to present
within the play was imaginatively planned and perfectly executed.

There was a 10 minute intermission, and I could see that our small but appreciative audience had grown somewhat with
the arrival of late comers.

‘‘Adaptations’’ was the third play. ‘‘Adaptations’’ is the name of a game show and the game is life. The play
is tremendously funny, but when the end comes, it is also frightening. Elaine May ends ‘‘Adaptations’’ with the same sense
of deadness and futility as in ‘‘The Heartbreak Kid.’’ Suflas as the game master was brilliant — another Monte Hall
— and Jeanne Ann Williams presented an excellent performance switching from role to role. There were some difficult transitions to
make, it seemed, but Williams moved through them easily. Ken Jones was the master of the straight face last night.
His dead-pan switch to the contestants’ token Negro friend was great.

And at last, Bruce Becker. Becker’s performance was ... let’s just say it made the evening memorable. His going through
the turmoils of puberty at one point in the play is worth seeing twice. I hope some of the Davidson
Campus can rouse themselves from their stupor to see it just once.

The spring term this year has been a period of experimental drama, and it is encouraging to see new things
done on the Davidson stage. Hopefully these new and exciting plays will arouse an interest in participation in drama on
campus whether it be as spectator or as actor.
