Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

FOUR
NOVEMBER 2, 1973

Avoiding The Narrow Path

We would like to commend the faculty as a whole for their well-advised election of Professors Proctor, Walker, Manning, Nelson,
and Brown Patterson to work on the 10-year College Self-study evaluation. Instead of selecting a steering committee which would represent
only the interests of any one narrow segment of faculty opinion on various issues, the faculty selected a broad slate
which will express the feelings of diverse groups within the faculty. Such a selection goes a long way to refute
the allegation that the faculty is dominated by one group, for if such were the case, then as representative a
committee as the Self-study Steering Committee could never have been created.

This 10-year evaluation is indeed very important to Davidson. Out of the study done 10 years ago, came revolutionary changes
that revamped the whole curriculum. While not advocating any radical changes now, we feel that the committee in the process
of their study might come up with many new recommendations to further improve things here. For example, the whole method
of giving credit to those involved in foreign study needs improvement so that it becomes less difficult to transfer foreign
study credits to one’s record here. And as we indicated last week, the whole concept of the “21” level course,
and more broadly our whole commitment to the liberal arts merits reevaluation. We hope that the committee, through an honest
discussion of its differences of opinion, may draw up suitable recommendations in these and in other areas of the college
programs, for the betterment of Davidson as a whole.

Goodbye And Hello

We the staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN would like to express our most sincere thanks to Taylor Blackwell, owner and publisher
of the printing company which handled THE DAVIDSONIAN, for all the time and effort he has invested in our newspaper
over the past six years to ensure its success. For without his advice when things were going well (which was
almost never), and his assistance when we were floundering, it is doubtful that we could have accomplished what we have.
Taylor always seemed to be present when we needed him to assist us in both the technical and journalistic aspects
of putting out a newspaper. We hope that now that he is out of the newspaper business, he will carry
out a long-cherished desire to participate more actively in community affairs. It is our opinion that in the same way
he offered generously of his considerable talents to THE DAVIDSONIAN, he will do so toward the community as a whole.
In this new endeavor, he also has much to offer. So, we say goodbye to Taylor Blackwell as a newspaperman,
and hello to him as a community mover.

Making The Decision On Wildcat Football: A Catharsis For The College Community

Like the student forced to make the difficult personal decision on the morality of premarital sex, Davidson College as a
collective body has been confronted over the past four years with the necessity of resolving the bitter controversy over the
fate of football here. In both cases it takes a long, and often painful, self-appraisal of one’s most basic beliefs
and attitudes on the subject to resolve the dilemma. And yet out of each can come the most satisfying catharsis-
when the weight of making such a decision is over. As we hope that the individual who must make such
a decision feels a purging of guilt when it is all over, so we fervently pray that the Davidson community
feels that way now that their ordeal is over. Fortunately, there are indications that this is so.

Eades Receives Recognition For Campus Contributions

To The Editor:

Earlier this week, Todd Eades asked me to relieve him from his many duties in student government. Although his contributions
to the SGA have been considerable and his expertise invaluable to the last three SGA presidents, I told him that
I would respect his decision and replace him as soon as possible. Before he leaves the SGA, I would like
to openly express my appreciation for the work he has done for the Davidson student body. During the 71-72 school
year, Eades undertook an awesome task in his assault on the comprehensive fee plan as outlined by Mr. Cornell. Members
of the classes of ’74 and '75 will recall that the plan was eventually altered, primarily as a result of
the work done by Eades. For the past three years, Eades’ work onTHE DAVIDSONIAN has been consistently thorough and fair.
His analyses of campus issues have been superb, and he has displayed an uncanny ability to explain complex problems succinctly.
In the area of student government, Eades has served in numerous capacities: as SGA parliamentarian, chairman of the Campus Tax
Council, member of the Student Life Committee, and member of the Senate Executive Committee. His service in these official roles
has been solid and steady. His unofficial role as a source of advice and political wisdom to Danny Clodfelter, Ralph
Peeples, and others during our terms as student body president has earned him the respect of all those who have
worked in the SGA during the past three years. Unlike most of the "activists" on campus, Eades has not received
much recognition outside of the groups with whom he has worked. Despite his service and list of accomplishments, his name
has been conspicuously absent from lists of the "Who’s Who" variety. From my perspective, I can see no other student
at Davidson who has given so much of himself and yet received so little recognition. Eades leaves the Student Government
Association, and I would like to thank him publicly on behalf of the many students who have known him through
the SGA, for his countless hours of work, numerous contributions, and for his honest advice and criticism.

Bo Phillips '74
Davidson College

Head football coach Dave Fagg has stated that he is in one hundred percent support of the trustee move to
make all future football scholarships solely on the basis of demonstrated need. This belief is a direct refutation of a
recent story in the "Charlotte Observer" which strongly implied that Fagg opposed such a move. And as even the most
ardent subsidized-football hater would have to concede, this is an indication of a strong personality, for to be able to
mold one’s outlook to a system contrary to one’s aspirations (obviously Fagg would rather coach a subsidized team) is quite
an achievement. While we disagree with Fagg’s outlook on the game (It seems to us that often the only thing
that matters is winning, rather than being satisfied in acquitting oneself well on the field.), we cannot help but admire
his adaptability.

As for the players themselves, the move was greeted with more than a little bitterness. Nothing we can say will
ease that pain; we can only hope that they will someday understand that the college had no other realistic choice.
For the money is just not there to expand the program to make it competitive with the other Southern Conference
powers, and to keep the program like it is would be a travesty to everyone here. And so the decision
to create a successful program on a level that all can accept was the only alternative. The reaction among the
rest of the community has been good. Spencer and the trustees seem satisfied, at least for the time being. And
many students now seem to be willing to go out in the future and support the football team again as
they did in the not-so-distant past.

With regard to the way the news was given to the team (they got the announcement from the press rather
than from college officials), we feel the team was slighted, although probably unintentionally. It is imperative that those in power
learn how to announce such moves in a more dignified and respectful manner. The one major problem with the trustee
decision is that as a result of it the football team will, over the next three years, be forced to
compete against subsidized Southern Conference teams at a time when all their own scholarships will be running out as the
players graduate. This may not work out. Very conceivably at the end of three years (or sooner) we may find
that we are unable to continue to do so. If Fagg is unable to win against such opponents with the
material he has to work with, we hope that the trustees will see fit to get us out of the
Southern Conference immediately. For what is most important is that we play on a level where we stand a reasonable
chance of winning. We would further urge the Athletic Department to go about the business immediately of scheduling games over
the next three years against schools with the same caliber program as Davidson. For we owe it to the present
players to give them a good schedule. We affirm our hope that the days of animosity are over between the
supporters of a subsidized team, and those who favor a more limited approach to the game, so that we may
all once again unreservedly support the Davidson Wildcat Football team.
