I’M COMING HOME

(Staff Photos by Goodman)

Sentelle 1's Bill Hawk scores a valuable run with some crafty base running.

Softball Excitement Continues, Showers Put Schedule Behind -

By BUCKY and CAPTAIN AMERICA

This past week saw only two days of games played due to rain as the season bogged down a little bit.

Last Wednesday saw the PDG group up the ATO’s 11-10, marking the third one-run loss in a row for the hapless AT zeroes. Seems the turnovers cannot get the big runs in the late innings. Oh yes, Stevie Canterbury vows and swears that the ATO’s will win their next game. CA and Bucky can only say, after both taking probability, that the law of averages will catch up to the ATO’s sometime.

Seeing as how last week was ‘Rank on a SPE Week,’ we will not say anything about the Big Sig Eps. Final score SPE’s 17, Cannoneers 5.

A powerhouse team has been cruising steadily in League C. Sentelle 3 led by Mark Firth has compiled a 5-0 record as they gunned down the previously unbeaten PDA's 7-2 last week.

The League B basketball champs have a well-balanced team whose strength is hitting. Their only problem so far according to coach Firth, is hiding their most insignificant player, Terrible Tommy Blackwood, a marginal player on a good day.

The Delt seniors have been on a recent rampage as they have won their last five games. Last week they ran past the Kirkwood Derbies 12-6. Led by strong hitting and a fine pitching performance by Drew White, the Delt seniors are obviously one of the most experienced teams in the league in CA and Buck’s eyes.

F&M #1 has won four straight since losing their opener to the Cannoneers. Last week they crushed the Errors 11-4 as Harold Bailey split his pants in a winning cause. Nice job Harold.

The world-famous wimps of W-1 are running on a softball rampage. Their record stands at an astounding, highly respectable 5-1. Last week they played a fine game of ball in defeating hapless C-1 (they showed folks), 4-1. Their defense and an outstanding ‘esprit de wimps’ have made the wimps what they are today, wimpiest of wimps.

The PDG boys also played another game Wednesday. In the second game of their twinight doubleheader, the Gamms made it a sweep by nipping the PKA's 11-9. The Gamms are now 4-1 in second place of the C League.

Monday saw some exciting contests one of which was a big showdown between the powerful Pope and His Court and the mighty Kirkwood Derbies. The Derbies defeated the Pope 11-9 as Mike Deese poked a key two-run double in a six-run seventh for the winners.

The Derbies used the short right field woods on field #4 to their advantage and this seemed to be the turning point as the Pope could not get his bats working.

The San Juan Banana had a bad day in the field as he could not comprehend the Moultrie Mad Dog's use of the English language on relay throws from the outfield. When asked to comment, the Banana had this to say: “La de da da da A-mer-i-ca! Ariba!” Actually, he didn’t say anything cause he don’t know no English.

The improving Errors clipped the Cannoneers 10-4 as Rich “Papa” Wilson knocked a bases-loaded triple to lead the way.

Watts 1 won two more games Monday as they wimped a forfeit out of the Lakers before knocking off S-1 behind the sparkling play of seldom-seen Jamie “Ace” Koloditch, brought up from the minor league team in Greenwich Village. Kolodo handled six fielding chances cleanly, actually showing vestiges of athletic prowess.

Oh yes, the Cannon basement boys then won a forfeit from S-1. Obviously, S-1 was too shaken by Ace Kolodo. Amazing how a single player can destroy an entire team.

F&M #1 continued their climb to the top as they toppled SAE 15-7 behind 12 runs in the first four innings. F&M is now 4-1.

SAE then dropped its second game in a row as they lost to powerful Dr. Pepper 7-5 on Tom Tornee’s bases-loaded grannie in the seventh. The Peppers can play with anybody when they want to.

League A has the idle SIF’s at 4-0, and F&M #1 at 4-1. League B is the biggest struggle as Emanon is 3-0 while the Pope, Wimps, and PDT seniors are all at 5-1.

League C has S-3 at 5-0 and Qand 12, the only team comprised totally of switch hitters, at 4-0. PGD is 4-1 while the KA’s are there too at 3-1.

10 - 9 P. M.

BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET “It’s Incomparable”

Sandwiches — Pizza Sundaes 50 FLAVOR SHAKES

CORRECTIONS An article in the DAVIDSONIAN last week erroneously reported that the Phi Society gave the SPE’s the award for “most athletic fraternity” when they managed to pass the Delt’s in total IMAC points. The award presented by the Phi Society was for the SPE’s athletic performance last year. Only coincidentally did the presentation take place the same time that the SPE’s took over the lead this year. The DAVIDSONIAN regrets the error.

The Davidsonian May 11, 1973 Page Eleven

IF I ONLY HAD A RAQUET Tennis coach Jeff Frank takes a crack at softball.

115 S. MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036

We are... A gallery and gift shop over the ‘Red Hanger.’ We have... Pottery, candles, Designer jewelry, Baskets, candy, several types of cards and postnotes and a good bit more.

We're interested in showing student art. Come over and see us.

AND AWAY IT GOES Mike Creasman blasts ball in an IMAC clash.