The Vol. LXII, No. Twenty-Four
Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
April 27, 1973

MacCormac Takes Post As Honors Center Dean
By BETSY ALEXANDER
Contributing Editor

Professor of philosophy Earl MacCormac announced the establishment of a revamped Honors College program at an Open End meeting Tuesday
night. On Wednesday afternoon, MacCormac accepted the position as dean of the new Center, saying, “I want to build this
to be a first-quality center of departmental and interdisciplinary honors for special students.”

The Honors College, renamed the Center for Honors Studies, will begin next year on a program to increase interaction among
students and faculty participating in the program as well as the college in general. Along with MacCormac, Professors John Kelton
of the psychology department; Frank Bliss, English; David Grant, biology; and Ernest Patterson, economics, the last of whom will be
on leave fall term of next year, will be joining the Honors College.

MacCormac emphasized two objectives for the Center: continue special projects as it has had in the past, in one area
or in several interdisciplinary areas; and to incorporate members of departmental honors into the Center for Honors Studies. “One of
the problems in the past,” said MacCormac, “has been that students tended to go off on their own, with little
group interaction.” To correct this situation, MacCormac proposes to have group meetings consisting of lectures, symposia, or lunches at least
once a week. He also hopes to have films, student performances, and lectures open to the public, and a small
library at the Honors Center.

MacCormac also wants students to participate in a joint project “for no more than a sixth of their time.” One
project, in ecology, will be a study of the Rocky River, including its history, economics, contributions made by different pollutants,
including Davidson College, and how much it would cost to clean it up. Both faculty and students will participate, each
in his preferred area, under the direction of Grant. “We've applied for an EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) grant from the
federal government. The pilot project will begin next spring,” added MacCormac.

To increase the availability of professors in the Center, each professor will be in the Honors College one afternoon a
week, in addition to his regular office hours. “I expect to be over there full-time beginning this September,” MacCormac said.

By TOM BRUCE
Associate Editor

William Miller, assistant director of admissions, expressed a mood of guarded optimism this week in the face of a move
by the U.S. Congress to extend for one year the National Direct Student Loan (NDSL) and the Educational Opportunity Grant
(EOG) programs. The NDSL and EOG plans are two federal programs by which a student may presently finance his education.
However, they will be discontinued if Nixon's plans for higher education funding are approved.

AWARD
Rick Levi was the recipient of the Vereen Bell Award for creative writing. He won the award for a collection
of poems and was selected as the winner from a number of other Davidson students. The award was given at
a ceremony Wednesday afternoon.

Each professor will also offer, at some time during the year, an introductory course in his field for non-majors, in
such a way so as not to repeat the regular courses offered by the college. Another change, making it easier
for students to move in and out of the Center, will be the assignment of grades and “dummy numbers” to
each course offered. MacCormac wants to encourage participation of students from all levels, including freshmen and those students who do
not have a specific goal in mind when they apply, the purpose being to create the skills a student needs
to develop a project.

Students interested in applying to the Center should stop by the Carolina Inn between 8:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. and
pick up guidelines and a brochure describing the Center's operation.

(Staff photo by Hoon)
NEW DEAN MacCormac accepted honors center position.

May Continue Student Loans
blocked by the Administration if it exceeds the ceiling which has been placed on this area of the budget,” Miller
said. “Still,I think that one way or another, the NDSL and the EOG will be extended, at least for next
year. “The Basic Opportunity Grant (BOG) was Nixon's plan to replace the other funding. The admissions office was supposed to
have the guidelines for this funding no later than April, but we still have not received it,” he said. Miller
said that the admissions office had been granting aid on the assumption that the NDSL funds would be available next
year. Students are being asked to apply directly to banks for federal loans first, and then appeal to Davidson if
this avenue falls through. “As for work-study jobs, the college will continue to offer these,” said Miller, “since we really
need to have these jobs done in any case.”

The status of financial aid at Davidson has been clouded by federal budget maneuvering since January, when President Nixon announced
cutbacks in financial aid for students to encourage a balanced federal budget. Delays in working out the mechanics of the
BOG, however, caused fears that the program could not possibly be implemented before August or September, or too late for
next year’s entering freshmen. The Senate and House have recommended that the BOG be deferred for at least a year
and they have allocated funding for it at a level too low for operation in the fall. This bill also
provides that the NDSL and the EOG programs be extended for an additional year. The bill will now face the
possibility of a Presidential veto. Though the student aid appropriations it makes are no more than the amounts recommended by
Nixon, the bill is tied to another measure offering federal education to areas impacted by government employees, which appropriates more
money than Nixon requested. The possibility of impounding this money has been a consistent threat of the Administration. The federal
financial aid packages were cut in the same action that reduced spending on poverty programs such as the Office of
Economic Opportunity.

“We probably will not know just how much money will be available for us until this summer,” continued Miller. “Federal
programs are never fully funded, but we are planning on maintaining our programs of financial aid at the present level,”
he said.

Alumni Weekend Offers Wide Range of Activities

By MARK DEATON
Asst. Managing Editor

The April 27-28 weekend promises a wide range of activities to alumni, parents, staff, and students of Davidson College with
the occurrence of Alumni Weekend, Spring Convocation, Phi Beta Kappa 50th Anniversary Celebration, and Spring Frolics. Ninth District Congressman Jim
Martin, '57, a former Davidson chemistry professor, will speak on the future of tuition aid to colleges at the Spring
Convocation. Davidson will award two honorary degrees at this formal academic ceremony.

Friday at 11:00 a.m., Dr. Robert Franklin Davidson '23, dean emeritus of St. Andrews Presbyterian College, will receive the honorary
doctor of letters degree while Carl Billman, executive secretary of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa since 1947, will
receive the honorary doctor of laws degree. Announcement of Omicron Delta Kappa selections will also be made at the convocation.
“Omicron Delta Kappa is a national leadership fraternity with a little more zip than National Honor Society has in high
school,” Assistant to the President Duff Bruce said. Students are encouraged to pick up their free tickets to the convocation
luncheon by Friday morning in Dean of Students Will Terry’s office. The luncheon will be held in Chambers Banquet Hall
at 12:30.

Convocation will serve as the opening activity of the alumni weekend, according to Associate Director of Alumni Relations Zack Long.
“Having Spring Convocation and Alumni Weekend gives us a very positive occasion on which alumni can see the achievement of
our students and staff and be here at Davidson when it is recognized,” said Long. All parents of students have
been invited to the ceremony, according to Bruce. “We don't want parents to feel that they're just on the periphery
of Davidson College, just bringing their sons and daughters here once a year and then taking them home,” said Bruce.
“We look at this as an opportunity to bring the whole college family together,” Long indicated.
