Che Bauidsonian

THERE IS SOMETHING WRONG WITH THIS PAPER CAN YOU FIND IT?

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR

The Toilet Tissue Crisis

While the news media have publicized exhaustive reports informing the nation of pressing shortages of oil, gas, and other fuels,
the news service has neglected to arouse public attention to the most pressing one of all, the toilet tissue shortage.
Rep. Harold Froehlich, R.-Wis., has revealed that our present reserves of toilet tissue will soon be depleted “if we don’t
lift price controls on domestic pulp and begin to limit pulp exports.”

It is now time for the college to move on the toilet tissue issue. We recommend that the college begin
a massive stockpiling of toilet paper in the next few months. In case there is a shortage, we don’t want
to get caught with our pants down, and out of bumwad. But what can Mr. Average Davidson College Student do?
That’s the spirit. Everyone has a role to play in this toilet tissue issue. Boycott pay toilets, avoid ARA Slater
runs, take a few sheets to write your congressman the next time you sit down. Let him know that further
elimination of pulp used through exports is of import to all involved. Organize sit-ins, recycle used tissue, but let’s run
a clean campaign. We can’t afford to sit this one out. No one around here wants to revert to corn
cobs and sandpaper, especially with hemorrhoid season just around the corner. It’s time to get to the bottom of this
and pursue the toilet tissue issue to its logical end.

To ensure that Davidson will have enough toilet tissue, we of the DAVIDSONIAN will also offer to have our tuition
upped. Go by and tell C. David to up yours. If we don’t move immediately, the bullshit will have to
stop.

Does Chip Stone Exist?

(ED. note: We were so moved by Little David Kittrell’s Letter to the Editor last week when he asked whether
or not there was a Chip Stone, that we are using this space to reply to Little David.)

Yes, Little David, there is a Chip Stone. He is the spirit of physical education. You doubt that he exists
because you have never seen him. You have seen representations of him in all the toy stores beside the soccer
ball displays; you see men in red P.E. uniforms standing at street corners, ringing cowbells to collect money for the
Wildcat Fund. But you say that you have never seen the real Chip Stone. We know the ‘twin terrors’ with
which you live—Does Chip Stone exist?—and Would it be better if he didn’t?

Perhaps you never will see Chip Stone as you’ve imagined him, Little David. He comes to Johnson Gym but once
a year. He stops in to play a little game of handball with Tom Scott while you are sound asleep
in a Chambers classroom.

We are guilty of surrounding the figure of Chip Stone with myth. But that’s not the real Chip Stone, Little
David. I know it’s hard for you to understand that the real spirit of physical education, the true Chip Stone,
exists. You want to believe in a concrete person, a Chip Stone who keeps office hours, a soccer coach who
shows up for practice with his team. Forget it, kid. Try to think of the thrill of victory, the agony
of defeat, out of the guy who crushed the toe of your is spirit of physical education. That is Chip
Stone.the real Chip Stone.

January 1, 1984 | 5 eles - (Staff photo by Avedon)

‘MY ROD AND MY STAFF, THEY COMFORT ME’

Davidsonian Editor Alec Hoon reveals new editorial policy to shocked (and we might add, amused) staff during a recent meeting.
The staff seemed willing to accept the changes.

LETTERS TO MY CREDITORS

Madame Davidson Offers Advice To Troubled Readers

Madame Davidson advises many around the nation. She especially gives freely of her knowledge to students. The following are some
of the many letters that the Madam has received over the past few months:

Dear Madam Davidson,

I am a 43-year-old virgin who has a problem. I have been a cook in Mt. Mourne at Deal’s Grill
since I was 14, and I think I’m in a rut. My boiled broccoli and steamed squash are not what
they used to be. The chili dogs are barking at the customers. I need a change. I've heard about your
noble institution and your super-duper eating system. Could I work there?

97 Ounces for $4.85

Dear 97 Ounces for $4.85,

You must first desubsidize your sexual standing and then, when your chili dogs’ bites are worse than their barks, we'll
enjoy you.

The Madam

Dear Madam Davidson,

What do you think about Richard Nixon?

J.N.E.

Dear J.N.E.,

I don’t think about Richard Nixon. At my place, we have more pressing problems.

The Madam

Dear Madam Davidson,

I am a 45-year-old apple cider salesman. I lost my left breast in Korea in '52, and ever since I’ve
been looking for a girl that had a mastectomy of her left breast. I feel that we would be compatible.
But finding her is a difficult task. I mean I can't go up to a potential mastectomy candidate and say,
“Excuse me, but do you have both breasts complete and intact?” (I did this once and lost my left front
tooth.) Do you have any suggestions?

Dear Lefty,

Turn to the Bible for your answer: Deuteronomy 23:1-2.

The Madam

Dear Madam Davidson,

I am an alumnus of your institution and I must say that you excellently prepared me for the real world.
I learned how to be royally screwed.

Royally Screwed, '47

Dear R.S.,

Always happy to hear from an old friend. Remember our '73-'74 fund-raising campaign. I'll be sending you a complimentary calendar.

The Madam

Dear Madam Davidson,

I plan to leave your house during Christmas break and thought that some information about the girls of the outside
world might help me. What are their attitudes toward students? Do they feel differently about sex than we do? Just
in case, I would also like to know about brothel prices.

Ready and Coming

Dear Ruff and Ready,

In the real world, sex is considered normal. The attitude towards students is one of repulsion---no one wants to hear
an intellectual dissertation about navels, armpits, or the like while being sacked out. About brothel prices—with the conservation of fuel,
the prices have gone up.

The Madam

Dear Madam Davidson,

I am a test tube washer at New York City Community Hospital #31. I was pre-med at Davidson. Thanks a
lot!!

Lab Ass. #183

Dear L.A.,

Always happy to hear from an old friend. Remember our '73-'74 fund-raising campaign. I'll be sending you a complimentary calendar.

The Madam

The “Fer rher PholvenTurec Lor fart” Bye an a \\ Sa Ne Fe-a “DizosoPHy EZ 11> <<) (|= AB i
> i par? sa en a¢76 ta- PRY SS. gers bis A0eretica/ cesser7s.7
