Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Softball Action Starts. Freshman Team By BUCKY and CAPTAIN AMERICA

The 1973 softball season got off to a staggering surprise for a few returning teams as the bulk of the
freshmen teams showed unexpected power in knocking off a couple of the fraternity teams. In Wednesday's action, most everything went
as expected, however, as the three top teams in each league won. The Pope and His Court didn't have to
play as the boys from C-1 decided not to get the royal treatment and didn't even show at all. Meanwhile,
the same thing was happening next door as the Errors made a good play in not showing in their entirety
against the Staten Island Fairies.

In games that were played, the super strong Queen and his 12 Very Nice Guys played a queer game and
defeated the Crankateers rather soundly, 26-6. A team to watch for sure. The KA’s, showing a well-balanced attack, walked over
last year's champs and this year's doormats, the ATO's, 18-3. Hopefully, ATO will get next year's first-round draft choice.

In Thursday's action, a strong defensive team known as the Banging Cannoneers played. PAX started out the year nicely as
they tripped up the Gamms in an 11-5 win. The famed Derwood Derbies won their first game convincingly with a
12-4 stomp over Cannon Basement as Mike Deese, Seaton Taylor, and Pete Morgan all hit homers. The Delt seniors got
an early rest as the Lakers felt like going to the beach instead of playing, and the Delts picked up
the easiest of wins.

On Monday, the freshmen let themselves be heard even more. W-IV opened the barrage as they didn't even give Dr.
Pepper a chance, clouting the hapless drinks, 12-7. The always strong SPEs showed their prowess as they slugged it out
with the unique Alex and the Droggs team before beating them into submission, 17-13. Two other freshman teams also won
Monday. One was the fabled W-I Wimps. The Wimps, who recently established a wimpire in their hallowed halls, really jumped
out and conquered F&M #2, 19-1. If they are as good as early reports, C.A. and Buck could be eating
some earlier slashing remarks. But C.A. and Buck don't eat anything, hardly.

Defending League B basketball champs S-III showed their usual winning method as they...

April 20, 1973 Page Eleven

...fabled Pope and His Court really set the pace. The time e-communicated air turned off S-I. BT as their faculty-laden
team erupted for 17 runs in the first two frames. Age and experience often make up for the lack of
excitement, were the immortal sorcerers & the Pope following the sir. Another forte: the faculty was busy correcting tests and
rapping in their rooms and they suffered a 14-2 defeat by ESA. With the Pope and his sorcerers having won
two games thus far, it is safe to say they are contenders for the rest of the season.

Staff photo by Goodman

STICKHANDLING AT ITS BEST

The handball game, a less wise 3 Mecke, coed S about to end its first season. The team in all
stages is now set. The schedule only one game SRT K Son +3. Team members from F&M of me and
persons met and practiced several arms in the summer and spring terms. The rug are waiting for the...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as closely as possible.team organizer Bee Milks. The team will try
to play SPE's results of the game. T2's regular match (chartie based league). Due to the usual searches, we were
told to come CA and Buck's humorous comments came - So we leave #1 to quote for... Netters, the leader
of the very nice Zoys, won 3-4. The Queen herself continued from Page * match square fine game of softball
in clipping, dented PDT #2, 13-6. This was a baseball game. A great game for perennial power F&M #1 by
a well-balanced attack as Mark 7 got to know men as men. The argument over Apgaeuacmar. He also emphasized that
the two re @2s “ne “corth conference match was on March courts score of 5-3. Firth hit two home runs
on the court team. For the Cats, 2g2.0st t™ We were out of shape for the Sse 47°27" - ‘e"
"= r- . “SS — Malt courts after having played tRus -37> > .er ~aress 6 8 - - ,__.-.
~~ x Mam on the day comes -_—* Frama explained 601 guess the Proor Mé Tiale= @.l AD OSS was
a combination of Peace: We 1620 Tac ree Tungs games rc ‘our <3.: Tegimning — cee = Z nm Seturce
Je) team with Duke on Frca: 2 conquered NC State 2. In the Duke match, Mara won home score of
5-3. The Cats Mevers <ne cop Blue I: of the six Frank 42s upset with the strategy employed by the
Duke coach. He played to become a seeded player as his number five and six players complained. Frank thought this
was a very unethical way to play tennis. But all the other ACC coaches know he does it and they
do not really care. “I think that we have a better team than Duke,” said Frank. “The boys and I
feel we could beat them if they had played the Staff photo by Goodman.

TAKING A BREAK
Saturday's game which the team lost. Club football players take a break for Gatorade during last Saturday's 27-7. The team,
founded by Carl Rizzo, has proved to be popular with many students, including some ex-football players, because everyone can have
a lot of fun playing without having to practice every day.

COLLEGIATE NOTES
Understand all subjects, plays, and novels faster! — Thousands of topics available within 24 hours of mailing (complete with bibliography
and footnotes). Lowest prices are GUARANTEED. Send $1.98 for our latest descriptive mail-order catalog with postage.

COLLEGIATE RESEARCH GUIDE
IN. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 706
Phila., Pa. 19100
HOT-LINE: (215) 123-3754

Swept singles events and 21 of the doubles in the rout. Weaver, Mentor, Aller, and Ruvs led the conquest as
each won in straight sets. Pfeffer showed up Monday with only four players, so the Cats got a 4-0 forfeit
win. The last major challenge for the Wildcat netters this season comes in the shape of the Southern Conference tournament
scheduled for next weekend at Furman. “I think we are still playing and should really be in good shape for
the tournament.

WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY PRESENTS
JAMES TAYLOR
8 P.M. Friday, April 27
Winston-Salem Coliseum
Tickets $4.50 and $5.50 by mail order to:
WFU College Union
7225 Reynolda Station
Winston-Salem, N.C. 27109
Please include stamped, self-addressed envelope.
