re, EARLY TO PRACTICE. (Staff Photo by M. Brady) Katie Early gets in shape for future Saturday night sessions.

The Davidsonian
January 12, 1973
Page Nine

End Of Subsidization Sparks Turmoil; Spencer Threatened

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.'s announcement which put an end to subsidized sports at Davidson has had serious consequences. Coach Dave Fagg and Terry Holland have already handed in their resignations. “This whole thing just makes me sick,” commented Dave. “It's just a darn shame that this has to happen to the guys on this team,” Fagg added. “They are a great bunch of men who would be 82 in anybody’s book.”

Walt Walker was studying films of this season in a rush of nostalgia. “These very well might be the last films ever taken of Davidson football,” said Walker. “Next year’s budget allows for a Polaroid Swinger and five rolls of film.”

Coed Skaters Start Roller Team

In answer to what Chip Stone, head of the Davidson physical education program, termed a “crying need for girls' athletics,” a new program has been instituted to allow women students a crack at intercollegiate varsity competition. Stone himself will coach the first girls' sport: a Roller Derby team. He said the idea for the team came from the coeds who were looking for a means of physical expression not found in the more traditional male-dominated sports now offered at Davidson.

The idea for the team was first proposed by Katie Early, Stone said. Early said she had always been an avid fan of the professional skaters and saw the Davidson team as a means toward fulfilling her ambition of being a “jammer.” Early has recruited approximately 15 other girls to make up the core of the team, and they are trying to work out an arrangement with Moor Lanes in Mooresville for practice time. Evidently, no reputable skating rink was willing to offer the team a home, so they are trying to practice at the bowling alley during off hours. Early said she thought the team would be able to find a regular rink to use as a home stadium “as soon as we get a name.” Until that happens, they will hold all their home races in Johnston Gym.

Stone was very optimistic about the team's chances in the Southern Skater's Conference. “We have some outstanding skaters here at Davidson,” Stone said. “Some of these girls are among the finest potential roller derby skaters I've seen in a good while. They have good thighs.” Stone said that although he was not familiar with all the facets of coaching the new team, he was sure it would be successful. “I'm an avid fan of the professional variety,” he stated, “and the competition in the conference is fairly weak.” He said that Furman was favored to win the first conference championships which will be held in Greenville, S.C. next year, but that Appalachian, Queens, and Sweet Briar all had good challenging teams. “I hear those Queens girls can’t wait to try to tear Davidson coeds apart,” Stone said.

The rapid changeover to a new girls’ sport has put a minor strain on the existing college facilities, and plans are being made to open locker rooms, showers, and weight rooms for the girls in what was formerly the football locker room. Ray Turner, who is in charge of varsity equipment, said that presently the “skates, helmets, and other female incidentals are taking up all the room down here.”

WHERE ARE THEY NOW? Four Cat Harriers Strangely Disappear

Turner said that he was disgusted by the introduction of the new sport and would “throw all the damn junk out if I get half a chance.” He said that football coach Bob Mosketti had also conspired with him to help “turn the gym back over to the people that deserve it.”

The team itself is not completely organized at this point. Other than the appointment of Stone as coach and the selection of Early as captain, little has been done. Early plans to hold a contest...to select a nickname for the skaters, although she feels that it will finally be either the “Davidson Dearies” or the “Wildbunnies.” Despite the relative disorganization of the project, the coeds involved are optimistic. “The girls are overjoyed at the thought of having something to compete in,” skater Sue Schmidt said. “We'll probably be practicing four or five times a week.” Both Early and Schmidt agreed that chances were slight for the foundation of a male counterpart to their new sport. “The guys at this school are just too lazy,” Early said. “They never want to do anything that’s fun.” “Yeah,” added Schmidt, “there’s just no action or excitement around here at all.”

Stone said he was glad to see the new female interest in Davidson sports, and hoped other coed teams would spring up soon. “This is just the beginning,” he said, “today Roller Derby, tomorrow Women’s Wrestling.”

Walker was joined by Eddie Womack who holds some optimism for next year. “Sure, we may have to drop Air Force and several other of our more challenging opponents, but we've lined up North Mecklenburg and several other high schools already. They aren't bad teams either, they’re at least as good as some of the colleges we've played in the past few years.” Walker was now crying softly. “We were known as the smallest college in the nation still playing major college football. Now they’ll say we're the largest college that plays high school football,” he sobbed.

Bruce Becker stated in his press conference in which he announced his retirement from football that although he was glad he would not have to suffer the embarrassment of being beaten by high school teams, he still felt that the Wildcats held promise. “In all sincerity, I do not feel that the lack of scholarships and recruiting will be detrimental to the calibre of Wildcat football,” said Becker at the emotionally charged scene.

Mike Sorrentino and John Falconi immediately put out a contract for a hit on Spencer when they heard of the end of subsidized athletics. “I’ve waited too long for UCLA,” said Sorrentino, “Spencer will not get away with this.” “Yeah,” said Falconi who is now considering an offer as player-coach of the Philadelphia 76ers.

The cagers used the last of the team’s recruiting and telephone budget for a party to bid Terry Holland and Bo Brickels farewell and good luck in their new jobs as ushers in the Coliseum. “I’ll never forget you or this team,” sobbed Greg Dunn. “When I die I'm going to be buried in my uniform, Coach.”

The Davidson cross country program suffered a severe setback Monday when four of Sterling Martin's harriers disappeared from the Davidson College campus. The four were last seen on Monday when they reported for practice. As of now, a few footprints around the soccer field and the occasional whiff of an old putrid Adidas track shoe in the air are the only indications that they still may be around, according to Coach Martin. “I wanted them to run over-distance, but I never expected anything like this,” he said.

Martin expressed optimism about their return and is particularly pleased with the endurance of the two freshmen that are among the missing. If they are still going, it has been predicted that they should have covered approximately 600-700 miles. The Davidson police have been called in and have made some progress in the hopeful apprehension of the harriers. After questioning Professor Kincaid, the motive of the endless run being a possible extended studies project has been rejected. Also questioned was “Shirley,” for her alleged mysterious encounters with Davidson men. According to Martin, the only explanation seems to be that “The boys were real excited about the thought of possibly running in the Boston marathon, and well, I just don’t know!”