Debaters Cool Heels Waiting

By BOB HOWELL Managing Editor

After a winning fall season, the Davidson debaters are seeing moderate action, anticipating the big tournaments of this spring. "There have been two novice tournaments we've attended this term," explained Bill Eskridge, president of the debaters. "These contests are reserved for students with either one or two years of debating experience, depending on the tournament."

In an intraregional tournament at Pfeiffer College in late January, Davidson entered three novice teams which took three of the first four places, Eskridge said. The team of Bob Mooty and John Mance won the tournament, while the novice teams of Bill Crosland-Cary Herin and Bill Reed-Steve Brant finished third and fourth.

Another novice tournament at the University of Tennessee included students with two years of debating experience, equivalent to most varsity tournaments, noted Eskridge. In that tournament, the Mance-Mooty team finished with a 4-2 record.

"This weekend there is another big tournament, the Annapolis Invitational," Eskridge said, "and this is the first year Davidson has received an invitation." He explained that some 60 schools from across the country were invited to send only one team each. Davidson is scheduled to be represented by the varsity team of Eskridge and Paul Mitchell.

"There are one or two more tournaments coming up," Eskridge continued, "the South Atlantic Forensic Tournament at Lenoir-Rhyne College next weekend and a tournament at the American University in Washington at the end of March." The team has received invitations to attend several other tournaments in the spring but has not yet decided which ones to accept, he said.

Eskridge was pleased with the team’s record so far this year. "This varsity is 18-10, or 64 percent won-lost, and the novice teams are 49-31, or 61 percent. This is just a little below last year’s record, but I'd attribute that to the fact that we haven't entered as many tournaments, and the ones we have entered have been against strong competition," he said. Last year was the first time in 10 years that Davidson had a winning record in debate, and we hope to continue that for a while," Eskridge said.

He noted that the debate team has the same problems as any sport which is not subsidized. "It is analogous to a basketball team where men and women could spend only 24 hours a week practicing," he said. "None of us debaters do better. Nevertheless, Davidson has been able to compete at a high level."

"We don't enter every tournament," Eskridge added, "but the fees are as high as some teams do. We rely on the quality of evidence and analytical reasoning. That's where we stand out."

By VAL VAN HORS Asst. Features Editor

She sits at the edge of her seat. Her once long hair is shorter now, and there is an air of determination around her. Her friends greet her with some cheer. Despite her injuries, Scotty Nicholls resumes work, brace and all.

Nicholls Back In Commission

Nicholls had a serious accident, but she is back in action, determined to continue her work.

Andrew Wong writes of Red China and Hong Kong.

The following are true episodes. These are written by Davidson student Andrew Wong, who actually lived in Hong Kong after his escape from his Red Chinese homeland.

Most of the buses in Hong Kong are red and yellow double-deckers with two doors on one side, one for getting on and one for getting out. Many of them are old and dirty crates. When the engines are running, the buses shake as though they are going to fall to pieces. The seats of these old buses are made of varnished wood patterned with plastic stripes. They are usually dirty and worn out, but worst of all are the bugs in them.

I was on one of those old buses one day. In front of me, an old man was dozing peacefully on the striped seat. As the bus went along, the old man started to scratch his hip. At first, he was half asleep and scratched gently and unconsciously. But soon he started to scratch his back and legs as well. Something must have been itching him, for now he was wide awake and scratching frantically.

I burst into laughter and jumped up, knocking off the seat. However, my feelings soon turned to surprise and fear after I saw the flea-like bugs from the old man's seat.Tis S632 “CONeC 4... = rest of the de. and from the time on never tare un stow those s€2 ts 222.7. The ois m.ér .s Ach ine sate sufferer vecelse 2.47. 4a. there are rumors concerning the newspaper editors. I am planning 200. The Tugs Of Carte (the 20ers her wins, Cr .012e (Me telat lomeror of née Gusen CMe ween im ewe the BUS COTMTuC ors 20 n.ers asae, in Hong Kong “mere acs Tat. Ge iclannecet cus lor ul ots ane ir ers [ rerrer ver we Wee 8 as de ak OTB ee TAOU.E A le severe. Tat et OG ful, SceerD AD ome Tus-d0C te SOLE ML nm Tomentars. He re a MET, Pare) wer tefore 3 Dat-4T 2g" 4 2s iT Siete 7 ree i Ok oO kB ET SR TS Mi SE fal Ee Ta Le “far The thy 4M * Oy Oe a ea alll Oo Poa” Pa Api Rn mtg ez EP EMS Ste WC Ce Mat Sm cm ne Cry he OE COA ETS on, get tr queer - erat Dba Ip er oma texte, geo ee Ree gem! ane COT Ole Tet 2° Te we tat “euine tft, Gat oee “Ste ~ Cet Oe sus . 2.. ferut‘*27’.. 2M AF Te oF cut 6,60 we > teacnec one svleag.a | frag. wGEIS 72. Ne aes Trower “rere are Tan. tac tergeret dv vers and cor TOs: Suc ors Ses “Me Tus inilcen. recuc|ec ‘Mé tomq@uctors tom tac io one rer Jus “Me ‘etc. w6s¢ ave felime more ete more 24uCéec: ous The. wen geo om 2 tus m2 UZ 250 Adtin : "m2 tus quncred WGuars Succes: four w fue "Ny GMs Tovec wer ane $27 209°C TIT The ime wetine tm cut ts 377. OM als smoOulcers anc ‘he wie 16x" (oO TIT sa:c win 2 cur- “Md Tue Duce. stow Te wTa°>$ om our anexeo The Home aco On os “snoucer Tace Um 2:74 a Ne ough 1 284mg cor jew The. Zot or te 4uS AT MS tas] ane tisec- fegrec on “ne isywe Ma ome tacett Doe tee co ime Wrnerw se We wut We Tea em Tt. Ne Zing wned we fa The tee. toes Ween co “Ae A™C1e BUS CTMIS AG The tus ioncuctor s #0) dus” 2 eer 2. Ne anivades wor ae” je ACT (even Wee vg s omg os “Né tack Se 2retencs te West se od LOTT aa ie Aa 27 : ea rte TSts 3! eteel da Teagcs ates -Qeecs Pwr cere ine MOLLE 2 -TEPST mf “IPSS -¢2rs “Ne us ao 4 2s) aes :ents My) JERS. Sur me vongest WeuUeEs 276 32f Ae Mas: “Ne suses “Ne Sus stoes anc Towec olacée soon This [ sutense ‘ogetner ant ‘Ne tetcosm | duds “he. cec- Tlaenmere: fomcucters 2nc me laong “eac’. anvs are ne Tain “egsons “he Qupuc dus in Rong Rong is ditterert trom any ynher Ne wore. we mde anc vou wil aever wes 1c Leairees “Mil it wes ime 28° uass of “te (e0T ‘Me Were ZINE Wo Tlade 2 ef" Meia°2 Crees Road There wes anotler car .n ‘ont was araune "om ane we were waring <6 we were gach’. We ‘née car 2m Tym. «te neg THe Mec Susie AaTS surlerec c jerecrae orden etl 2fmie 29C suber cia: facia SOUS STICT 22 low 2ed.ec 222 10 recollection Woa- avomidg flared se demoastra tes anc gractec “ne saca W he afterwarts. 1 gat stu if lett - wasn” teail. Japperme. [ waS Aaggecing co scImecre CS ‘The acy wie w2s 0 Ne tar unt Woas #as treng anc “hg ame couch < move ser c she was gut or the ane i sat mside the aMnulance waiking to ner and ‘ethre ter Nal avers hing was gome 1a ae aul mene Bh ed sivetcner i] rai “The; sul us Toicservanzon { tac sandbags om stn sices of T 4e3¢ 1 rep im Tewng Two Qassemgers from che car amen simuck fe ‘icneds were 380 “2Men io “Me sospita: The Iriver W Me car an id-vear-ic W). Jac an ice cancage dut on “HS dee TMlen wef with 2 state “rywiter The worst of if Ss “mar we ‘aeger ‘or as Wa! Mle ony was Tunk He inecwec fis oresin 2N¢ fe NEN” Gass Me test 4 WiMeSS i2:¢ hal Ne sept o-. ©) 28° um 1a Taee town 28 Revgiiime fer nustifai ita. wim 2 sense ot dumcr Wrs Nuemoeuds amues. [ iegrted 2. ot i f naen~ seen m che ac- ewient { 9e er woud Reve sear- geC apeut tangs fer term tor “ne “Ge ot Tactien she wes put To amd 3) tort Then. growmg cefleerme = [r Was ready 2 humbung es- gemence "oO aNOW few muy grea' penpie there ere Evervone xas great f aad su Mam vistors 2iut catds and Fowers during wy stax