Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Softball Begins Spring

Top news in the IMAC world this week is the much-anticipated return of the Staten Island Fairies. This bunch of drag queens, degenerates, and social deviants have returned for softball and volleyball. Extensive trading in the off-season brought the SEFS enough new talent to offset the loss of the founding fairies. Pil Dotts, the former fairy pitcher, hung up his high-heeled spikes to join the corporate industrial complex in Charlotte, also known as the real world. New additions to the already strong line-up are: Jay Powell (centerfielder) brought up from the famous Youngstown triple-A minor league, Jerry Kroll (shortstop and ex-JV mentor), Steve Sullas, who will be counted on to fill Dotts' pantyhose, Tom "Beached Whale" Verlin, Mike "Porky" Pappas, Eppa Rixey, and Bobby Evans. Put on waivers from last year’s squad are Jim Larranaga, Terry Holland, Bo Brickles, and Truman "Butch" Capote. The fairies would gladly trade all four for a six-pack of Strohs beer.

Taking this in stride, the defending champion ATOs announced through spokesman Robert Touchton that they "promise a team at least as good as our basketball team." Led by their famous Stevie Wonder Canterbury to Dave "Tree Frog" Ward battery, and outfielders Walter Kruger and Mitchell Johnston, the ATOs are good bets to break into the win column for the first time this year. A new challenge to the defending ATOs are the Durwood Derbies. Led by B.B. Kennedy, Davidson intramurals softball's answer to George Karl, this band of misfits should feature solid fielding and good hurling behind Mike "Cloes" Deese. The fortunes at bat may...

IMAC REPORT with BUCKY AND CAPTAIN AMERICA

(Staff photo by Goodman) Sailing team practices for upcoming regatta.

Sailing Team Competes In Regatta Against Four Schools This Weekend

By JOHN McELVEEN
Staff Writer

Davidson's sailing team will be competing against four other schools in the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association regatta this weekend. Commodore Daryl Douglas had scheduled this as the third regatta for the spring session, but the second one was canceled due to the high winds. With winds reaching speeds in excess of 40 knots per hour and gusts exceeding 70 knots per hour, most of the boats that were put in the water capsized. "Davidson was one of two teams that was able to keep their crafts afloat," commented Douglas.

This past weekend, the team held its annual regatta against the Lake Norman Yacht Club. Four crews from each team competed in the event. The Cats won the first race by one-fourth point and the second one by six. "This is the first time in four years that we have won this event," explained Douglas. "The record now stands at 4-3 in their favor."

In the upcoming regatta, the Cats will be looking for the opportunity to participate in the conference championships. "This regatta is the elimination match for half of the conference, while the other half is being held at Old Dominion," Douglas explained. The top three teams in each of the regattas will advance to the conference championships. Davidson will be in the regatta with Georgia Tech, Tennessee, College of Charleston, and The Citadel. Jimmy Hunter and Pope Mosely will be sailing in the B division, while Douglas and Oscar Mayer will be in the A division. Frank Sommerville will be the back-up skipper.Open Til 9:00 Every Night
Lowest Prices On All Beverages

The Davidsonian
March 30, 1973
Page Eleven

IMAC Action depends upon the Pig accepting a late offer to join the Derbies. When asked to assess their chances, Watson, the number two Kurwood, replied that while the team is still having auditions, “we will have a good chance to get to all the games since none of them are too far away.”

Yet another challenge to the ATO championship defense is the always strong Fanny and Mabels. F&M have everyone back this year except star pitcher Randy Parker. Another plus is their addition of Clayton “Ton” Dales. Ton was picked up on waivers from the now defunct Beta franchise. A hindrance to the F&M championship hopes is the dissension over picking Randy Parker's replacement. Team spokesman Dave Griffiths said, “Everyone wants to fill Randy’s shoes.” With Gritt at third, Jenn “Bird” in the outfield, and a motto like “We play with gusto,” F&M should be a contender, provided they work out their problems on the mound.

Of course, the leading team in total standings, the Delts, plan to have a team, or maybe two teams, or maybe three. The tough Delts figure to be led by that all-world IMAC performer, Jim Brown. Having won basketball, golf, and wrestling, the Delts have a good chance to take their fourth championship of the year.

Of course, C.A. and Young Buck would be remiss if they did not discuss the fortunes of those wonderful Watts Wimps. The Wimps (hold on to your hats) actually lead the freshman halls in total IMAC points. The Wimps will indeed sponsor a softball team under the brilliant leadership of John “Goddam” Cardwell. The question C.A. and Young Buck would like to ask is, if the Watts Wimps lead the freshman halls in total points, what lives in Sentelle and Cannon?

Outside the legal realm of intramurals, yet maintaining the spirit of intramurals, is the Davidson Hockey Club. The club, which consists of an unknown quantity between 20 and 30 members, plays entirely for fun with no score ever being kept. Competition is balanced, the budding Bobby Orrs playing on the number one line and the hackers playing on the second. C.A. and Young Buck combine with the ace of wimps to form the marvel line, which managed to slip four goals past the astounded and helpless Boulies. This great performance was offset by a hat trick by the Silver Sutter. As you read this, the icemen are going at it at the rink in Concord, which leaves C.A. and Young Buck with the question, why do hockey players whistle so well? All answers should be addressed to C.A. and Young Buck in care of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

PREGNANT? See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
CONNELL Jewelers of trusted reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St. - Phone 664-3624, N.C.

WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY PRESENTS
J. GEILS BAND
Plus — New From England - STEELEYE SPAN
8 P.M. Saturday, April 14
Tickets $4 by mail order: WFU College Union
7228 Reynolda Station
Winston-Salem, N.C. 27109
Please include stamped, self-addressed envelope.