Page Six January 19, 1973 The Davidsonian

Presidential Contenders Discuss Views

By BOB HOWELL
Asst. Managing Editor

The seven candidates running for the Presidency of the SGA expressed this week their opinions of Davidson's problems and what could be done about them.

John Branigan said he is running “just because I care about Davidson. I don't care about having this office on my record because I don’t have any plans for graduate school." He observed that “too many people are concerned about their reputation with the Administration. I don't feel loyalty to anyone in the Administration. We've got to let them know how far they can go and stop letting them ramrod policies through the SGA,” Branigan said. “Davidson is becoming impersonal, losing sight of the quality that gave it its reputation,” he continued. “We've got to make sure the student body is informed about what's going on.”

Doug Brown, who has served on the Senate, the Senate Executive Committee, the Educational Policy Committee, and as Managing Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, sees one of the problems of the Senate as “not working in conjunction with other student organizations and through faculty committees.” To improve coordination, Brown proposes a Campus Council composed of such organizations as the SGA, the Patterson Court Council, and the Union Board. “After working on THE DAVIDSONIAN I think I've seen how to and how not to bring about change,” he said. “Student government has contracted; my whole idea is to widen it, to make it more representative and more functional.” He hopes to expand student participation in the SGA by “letting them know what goes on. When an issue comes up that somebody feels strongly about, he can put time into it and help bring about change in that area, without feeling the pressures of being a full-time senator,” Brown said.

Bill DuPont describes his chief qualification as “a moderate point of view that places me between the extremes that have surfaced. There are relatively few burning issues,” he said. “It boils down to where a candidate stands in relation to his past record.” Among DuPont's suggestions are a social system balanced between the Union, eating houses, and fraternities, letting the Wildcat Fund assume more of the financial burden of subsidized athletics, and having the town patrolmen's campus responsibilities restricted.

DuPont says he will encourage student participation in Senate meetings and on committees. “If a person is interested enough, there's ample opportunity for him to get involved,” he said.

John McCartney said, “I'm running on the basic premise of anti-Administration. We have the resources to make Davidson one of the finest liberal arts colleges, but the Administration is moving away from this goal.” McCartney is in favor of “disbanding the SGA Senate. Instead, we need a College Governance Council composed of faculty, Administration, and students. The Administration has lost the idea of service to the students. The student body and faculty are rarely consulted on questions when they should be.” He sees the SGA as “taking a militant role, organizing protest activities. I'll encourage senators to talk more to their constituents.” Questions concerning student life should be directed away from the Administration to the Residence Hall Council and the Patterson Court Council, McCartney said.

Steve Morris qualifies himself as a candidate by being “in close touch with students. I haven't spent too much time on grades, but have concentrated on enjoying myself at Davidson, gearing away from organized activities.” Concerning the Senate, he said, “An organization can...become sterile, until someone comes in with a new, unstructured plan, or at least a willingness to listen to what's going on, to get a little life into it.” Morris said he has “no relations with people in the Administration I need to protect, so I don't feel any need to cater to their influence.” Davidson students as a whole don't see anything exciting going on, Morris contends, “but senators have the responsibility of letting people know what's happening. What I'd like to see is a more open Davidson where people start talking about problems and what needs to be done,” he concluded.

Bo Phillips said, “The main point I'm running on is that, of all the candidates, I've had the most experience in the Senate, so I think I can best get the job done. It's a matter of who has the best perspective as to what direction the school can move in the next five years,” he said. “Not all the work in the Senate is fun,” Phillips noted. “Some is exciting, some of it's petty, but I've enjoyed it, as a whole. There's nothing too exciting coming up, but what's important is to keep up the momentum” in such areas as coeducation, governance, and new dormitories. He also proposes student representation on the Budget, Building and Grounds Committee and a comprehensive study of subsidized athletics.

Sam Upchurch views his candidacy as “an attempt, someone stepping out of the apathy of Davidson.” “Student government needs a change in policy concerning the relationships of students, faculty, and Administration,” he said. “I didn’t see any change in the other people who were running.” As he sees it, “Pettiness has been controlling the Senate. Some of this is necessary, but it shouldn't be the main issue. There ought to be a state of mind in the Senate of almost attacking the Administration—not at every point—but students need and deserve to have more power than they have now. To make things move, students have to get behind the Senate, and the Senate’s got to take stands and force issues,” Upchurch said.

All candidates for the SGA Presidency will speak in an Open End this Sunday at 8 p.m.

Open End
An Open End featuring the candidates for SGA President will be held in the College Union at 8 p.m. on Sunday. John Branigan, Doug Brown, Bill DuPont, John McCartney, Steve Morris, Bo Phillips, and Sam Upchurch will be present to give their views.

Connette Assumes YMCA Presidency
By Bruce Maloy
Asst. Managing Editor

Junior Woody Connette has been elected without opposition as the president of the YMCA. Connette said the immediate plans for the Y are to finish up the renovation of the old depot and to get a study group organized to utilize the depot to its fullest extent. “It was supposed to be finished by Christmas,” said Connette, “but we haven't been able to come through with the student workers which we promised would help the workmen with some of the labor. What we need now,” Connette continued, “is more student input for ideas for new programs. I'd like to see the YMCA gear more of its programs to the kids and the older people in the community.”

“Wilson Gunn came up with the ‘Adopt-A-Grandmother’ program. The idea is for students to go talk to people who are shut-in and take them to the grocery store or wherever they need to go,” said Connette. Connette encouraged students who are interested in working on the depot or who have ideas for new programs to come by to see him.

CONNETTE