Davidsonian To Make Few Printing Changes
By MICHAEL TANNER
Executive Editor

The sale of the Davidson Printing Company, which presently prints THE DAVIDSONIAN, to Banner Publishers should not in any way
affect the publication of THE DAVIDSONIAN, according to Editor-in-Chief Alec Hoon.

“This issue will be the last one published under the ownership of Taylor Blackwell, who turned over the operation of
his printing company to the South Carolina publishers on Thursday. Beginning next week, Banner Publishers will handle all stages of
the printing operation, from setting the stories to actually printing the paper,” Hoon said.

When contacted about any changes in THE DAVIDSONIAN operation, President of Banner Publishers Fred Sheheen said, “For the present, there
will be only several minor changes. One of these will be that the actual printing of the paper will be
done at our plant in South Carolina, rather than in Mooresville as it is done now. I would emphasize that
this will mean little or no change in the deadlines, and that the paper will continue to be distributed on
Thursday nights,” Sheheen said.

One other change that was announced was that the width of the columns would change from 10.5 ems to 10.0
ems, which to the layman means that the columns will be about 1/12 of an inch narrower. This reduction in
the width of a column will not be as difficult a transition as it would appear. The only difference is
that there will be slightly fewer words per column inch.

“We had to make a change from an 11 em line to a 10.5 em line when we went to
offset printing last year. We had no problem then, and so I anticipate no difficulties now,” Hoon explained. He stated
that one positive benefit of the new operation might well be that the printed pictures would have better resolution.

“THE DAVIDSONIAN staffs have always had a very good relationship with Blackwell and his employees. Everyone seemed more than anxious
to assist the staff in producing the best paper possible. Blackwell himself was always especially willing to help. Everyone involved
with THE DAVIDSONIAN has always been very appreciative of that,” Hoon said. “We fully expect to have as good a
relationship with the Banner personnel,” Hoon concluded.

“I anticipate a smooth transition period for everyone involved. The personnel working at the Davidson Printing Company will basically remain
the same, except that a new editor for The Mecklenburg Gazette will be brought in,” Hoon said. “I think that
any problems we face will be minor, and that the staff has reached a point of competency where they can
handle any difficulties,” he added.

This change in the location of the actual printing operation will work to everyone’s benefit. The Mooresville Tribune, which previously
did the printing, is relieved that THE DAVIDSONIAN can now be printed in South Carolina as they are having problems
getting enough newsprint. Even without THE DAVIDSONIAN, they are overloaded with newspapers.

“We are sort of sorry to leave Mooresville, because they did such a good job in printing our paper. However,
we fully expect to get the same high-quality printing with Banner Publications,” Hoon said.

By DAVID KIRBY
Staff Writer

What academic service at Davidson offers courses at nine other colleges, conducts workshops with nationally known writers, is free to
students and costs only $100 per year to the college? You guessed it - the Charlotte Area Educational Consortium.

The organization is sponsored by 10 local colleges and universities and is designed to provide students, faculty, and administration officials
of the member institutions a channel for cooperation on educational projects. A major service provided to students by the consortium
is cross-enrollment in courses unique to particular schools. This service constitutes the “central opportunity” of the consortium for students, according
to Exchange Officer Jay H. Ostwalt, the organization’s representative at Davidson. Davidson records the grades from such courses on the
same basis as all other transfer credit, said Ostwalt.

Some of the major accomplishments of the consortium include common listing of all science equipment available on the several campuses,
common listings of the schools’ periodical holdings, sharing and exchanging of professors, a study of computers in education, and a

Davidson Plant Maintained By Loyal College Employees
By CHARLES KENNON
Staff Writer

The white frame building between Cannon dormitory and the laundry bears only one sign, “Shipping and Receiving.” Yet this insignificant
building is the headquarters for a large group of Davidson employees who keep the college’s physical plant in order. These
people work in one of several departments: the shop, shipping and receiving, groundskeeping, custodial, and utility.

Under the control of the Physical Plant Department, the shop has the difficult task of repairing damage done to all
college buildings. The shop can make any piece of equipment needed by an office or department.

Lecturer P. J. Vatikiotis, Professor of Politics at the University of London (serving as Visiting Professor at Princeton this year),
will deliver a public lecture on “The Middle East Conflict” at 8:30 p.m. on...Luther Honeycutt is in charge of the
Shop. He stated that their biggest problem has been damage done to the dorms by students. "Several things go against
the grain, like when students get mad and kick their doors. That knocks the plaster out and we have to
fix it," Honeycutt said. He added that many of the repairs of that type have to wait until the summer.
"By then there is so much to do in some of the dormitories that we can hardly do it all,"
Honeycutt said.

In addition to working on school property, the shop is responsible for the upkeep of the Shipping and Receiving department.
They handle all the shipments that come in for use by the school. They operate on the ground floor of
the building. The Grounds Department is also headquartered there. Headed by Irvin Brawley, these men cut the grass, prune the
trees, landscape, and help with planning for such things as drainage and development. Now they are busy coping with the
leaves. They operate the snow removal machines if and when it snows.

There are several other departments that serve important functions. The custodial employees, under the leadership of Junior Barker, perform the
thankless tasks of cleaning up after messes and water fights, etc. The Utility Department is one of the least heralded,
but most needed segments of the Physical Plant. These employees keep the steam and water pumps and pipes in order.
They also maintain the heat, air conditioning, plumbing, purchase of fuels, lighting outside, and electrical transformers. Equipment such as audio-visual
machines falls under their jurisdiction. Philip Cashion is the man in command of this operation.

Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze is pleased with the caliber of work that is done by these
departments. "The men in the various departments do an excellent job. There may be some things that don’t get done
right away, but they do the best they can."

Concerning the fact that some job requests are never fulfilled, see EMPLOYEES, page 12.

The Davidsonian
November 2, 1973

Three (Staff Photo by Goodman)

CHOLLET STILL, PATTI SHANKWEILER, AND OBSERVER

Although owner Taylor Blackwell has turned over the ownership of the Davidson Printing Company to Banner Publishers of South Carolina,
the printing process of THE DAVIDSONIAN will not be affected. Pictured above are the typists.

Consortium Offers Diversity For Students

"Readers and Writers Conference" held each of the past four years. Particularly successful has been the "Readers and Writers Conference,"
which consists of workshops at which students submit manuscripts for appraisal by professional writers. Daphne Athas, author of the acclaimed
novel "Entering Ephesus," was one of last year’s guest writers.

"The important thing (in the workshops) is the close scrutiny the manuscripts receive," said Professor of English James S. Purcell.
"The conference deserves more consideration from Davidson students," Purcell added, noting that the number of participating students from here averages
around five or six. Purcell is a member of the English Professors Consortium, an association sponsored by the CAEC. Ostwalt
also explained that the consortium can assist in bringing together students who share common interests or responsibilities, such as newspaper
editors or student government officials.

The consortium differs markedly from such organizations in other areas by virtue of its loose structure. Major policy decisions are
made by a council composed of two members from each school which meets four times a year. The council has
considered adopting a more heavily structured organization but rejected the idea because of excessive cost. The rejected plan would cost
$30,000 or more, as compared to the present budget of only $1000.

The consortium's plans for the future include an expansion into the area of "experiential learning," which Ostwalt defined as "any
kind of learning situation involving on-the-job experience." As examples, he cited work with government agencies, social work, and jobs in
hospitals. The nine other institutions in the consortium are Barber-Scotia College, Belmont Abbey College, Central Piedmont Community College, Gaston College,
Johnson C. Smith University, Queens College, Sacred Heart College, UNC-C, and Wingate College.

Pre-Med Program (Continued from page 1)

The trouble with some medicine-related fields is that the Davidson graduate is "overeducated before he starts," said Fredericksen. "When you
get to a certain level in education, you can go parallel but not down," Fredericksen explained. He pointed out that
few Davidson graduates would want to become paramedics.

Fredericksen is convinced of the quality of the Davidson pre-medical student. He said he was weary of the pre-med being
"stereotyped" as someone who spends all his time in the library. "I don’t mind a bit recommending 95 percent of
the students around here," Fredericksen added with a wave of his hand. "What tears me up is the boys who
are qualified and still don’t get into med school," he said.

Fredericksen believes the pressure for admission to the nation’s medical schools will ease soon. "The pressure cooker is as high
as it can go," said Fredericksen, "and the pop valve has to let loose soon."
