Entertainment

“What The Butler Saw,” a satire by Joe Orton, will be presented by the Little Theatre of Charlotte for a
run of seven performances. The plot of “What The Butler Saw” investigates the comic sequences of a man’s belief that
the best way to interview a girl for a job is to seduce her. In the play, the lady is
agreeable but the complications which interfere with the simple seduction are multiple and hilarious. After an aroused wife, a recalcitrant
bellhop, a hospital inspector, and a policeman become involved, the loose ends of the plot are tied up by an
unexpected twist in the vein of “The Importance of Being Earnest.” Performances will be next Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at
8:15 p.m. The box office opens for reservations on Monday, and tickets are $4 for adults and $2 for students
under 21.

A collection of silkscreens and etchings by Lucius DuBose, a professor of art at Peabody College in Nashville, Tenn., will
be on display in Gallery 501 of the Mint Museum of Art. Prominent in the collection is DuBose’s series of
exotic American birds. The opening and reception for the artist will be on Sunday from 2-5 p.m. Barbara Loudine’s one-woman
show of paintings continues to be on display at the Mint Museum.

The Ice Capades will perform two shows Saturday and Sunday in the Charlotte Coliseum at 2 and 6 p.m. Tickets
are from $2.50 - $4.50 -- a small price to pay for two hours of slippery fun.

The collection of prints, drawings, and paintings by Stephen White remains on display at the Mint Museum. Best known for
his woodcuts portraying the Amish peoples of the Midwestern United States, White concentrates on the depiction of the individual character
and personality.

HUGH MOORE
The Davidsonian
November 2, 1973

Seven Pornography Rulings Allow Community Judicial Biases

Last week a ninth-grade teacher was arrested for trying to teach Kurt Vonnegut’s novel, “Slaughterhouse Five” in his English class.
He was charged with distributing pornography to children. Also last week four justices of the Supreme Court complained about the
vagueness of the Court’s obscenity rulings last June. “Every author, every bookseller, every movie exhibitor, and perhaps, every librarian is
now at the mercy of the local police force’s conception of what appeals to the prurient interest or is patently
offensive,” Justice William O. Douglas said.

This week an advertisement in an area newspaper claimed that “this is the one ‘R’ rated movie parents should take
their teenage children with them to see.” The management’s recommendation was based on the movie’s content.

Walking Tall

Now playing at the State Theater in Mooresville is the picture “all America is applauding,” “Walking Tall.” Starring Joe Don
(Billy Jack) Baker, Elizabeth Hartman, and a host of mediocre character actors (Noah Beery, Rosemary Murphy, et al.), “Walking Tall”
is perhaps the most poisoned, sadistic movie ever made for the general public. Ostensibly, the story is based on the
career of one Buford Pusser, ex-wrestler-turned-sheriff of McNairy County, Tenn., who systematically cleans up vice and crime in the area.
The plot is innocent enough, but how Buford accomplishes his feat, and the enthusiasm with which audiences applaud his efforts
is a sad indictment of the blood-lust of the average American. In succession, Buford is beaten, flayed, shot (twice), and
stabbed, all in glorious technicolor. Being a good Christian, he retaliates by beating, shooting, and finally running down the villains.
In short, “Walking Tall” is a wretched glorification of the maxim that sadism, vengeance, and bloodshed are as American as
cherry pie.

The performances are on the same level as the mentality of this movie. Joe Don Baker plays the role of
lawful berserker with about as much character as the massive club he carries, while Elizabeth Hartman as Mrs. Pusser perfectly
complements Baker’s performance. Phil Karlson’s direction is devoid of any distinction, as is Walter Scharf’s score. There are some beautiful
shots of the West Tennessee countryside, but these are obscured by the blood. One can’t help feeling that the special
effects were done by a butcher. The real crime about “Walking Tall” is that it is only rated “R.” Such
a bloody monstrosity should be rated “G.” That way no one would pay good money to see it.

By PETE CELENTANO

Siddhartha

Adapted from the novel by Hermann Hesse, “Siddhartha” is a feast for the senses. It is in fact one of
the most visually beautiful films I've ever seen. Cameraman Sven (Cries and Whispers) Nykvist composes every shot as an individual
portrait, perfectly conveying the timeless quality of the Indian landscape. It is Nykvist who is the star of “Siddhartha”; it
is his masterpiece.

The story faithfully, or rather slavishly, follows Hesse’s novel. A young man, tired of a life he considers to be
without meaning, begs his father for permission to go into the world and seek Truth. For three years he stays
with the Sadhus, or Holy Men, performing their brand of asceticism and smoking hashish in order to achieve Nirvana. One
day he and his friend Govinda find the Buddha, and hear his teaching. Govinda becomes a disciple, but Siddhartha is
not convinced. He and Govinda part, the one following the Buddha, the other forsaking the ascetic life for the city
to learn of love under the tutelage of the courtesan Kamala. Siddhartha’s journey ends with his leaving the city and
working as an apprentice to an old boatman. It is there, by the eternally flowing river, that Siddhartha finds peace.

As stated previously, it is the camera which sets the mood of this film. Director Conrad Rooks is a disciple
of Ingmar Bergman, using the camera as the primary speaker. Indian actor Shashi Kapoor does an adequate, if somewhat pretentious
job as Siddhartha, but again, it is the visual beauty that carries the film.It is the timeless Indian countryside, caught
by Nykvist’s camera, which steals the show (prompting one reviewer to comment that “‘Siddhartha’’ seemed to be a commercial, albeit
an extraordinary one, for Air India). The music, sung by renowned Gouripasanni, is extraordinary. The only serious flaw in ‘‘Siddhartha’’
is in its amateurish editing. In some instances, this flaw was bad enough to make the scene incomprehensible. Despite this,
the film still is close to being a classic. If you enjoy exotic music, if you are interested in Indian
culture, even if you have a free afternoon or evening, don’t miss ‘‘Siddhartha’’.

By PETE CELENTANO

These three items, dissimilar as they are, together illustrate the current widespread confusion over the enforcement of obscenity guidelines. The
Supreme Court’s June decisions only made matters worse. According to the court, obscene material is not only that which is
utterly without redeeming social value, but also that which the community believes to be obscene at a particular time. Thus,
‘Playboy’’ does not have to be declared obscene in New York City before it can be banned in Smalltown, Mississippi.
By the same token, a movie with a law and order theme but an “R’’ rating might not appear obscene
to the natives of Smalltown, although a Quaker community in Pennsylvania might find it repulsive and label it taboo.

At first glance, the court’s majority may appear to be encouraging the admirable exercise of local community authority. What they
are really encouraging, however, is an assault on the First Amendment. In each community, the consensus of opinion, as represented
by the court and the police, dictates what a man can sell or exhibit and what a man can read
or see. At best, it is tyranny of the majority. The Supreme Court has passed the buck to the lower
courts, which are understandably reluctant to rush to judgment in determining what is pornographic. It should not surprise anyone if
such books as J. D. Salinger’s ‘‘Catcher in the Rye’’, James Joyce's ‘‘Ulysses’’, William S. Burroughs’ ‘‘Naked Lunch’’, and Allen
Ginsberg’s ‘‘Howl’’ once again come under attack by the authorities. In this respect, the high court has taken a big
step backward. It is now time, before any further harm is done, for the court to hand down a clear
decision distinguishing between that which is pornographic and that which is not. I would suggest that the term be used
to describe only those forms of communication primarily intended to excite lascivious feelings. Oftentimes, enforcement of obscenity rulings has tended
to place the artistic and the obscene in the same category merely because both might include profane language and sexual
activity. It is not really difficult to see the difference between ‘‘Catcher in the Rye’’ and ‘‘Swap Circus’’. I would
further suggest that movie ratings be clarified so that they simply indicate whether a film is pornographic or not. This
would eliminate silly comments like the one made in the above-mentioned advertisement. It would also give the ratings a meaning
that anyone could understand. Ideally, I would like to see the elimination of all restrictions on pornography for adult consumption.
The state has no right to meddle in this area. However, if the government insists on getting involved, it should
at least know what it is talking about when it speaks of pornography or obscenity. Otherwise, to use a trite
phrase, it throws the baby out with the bathwater.

Jurors Endanger Freedom Of Speech

By LELAND M. PARKS
Asst. Director of Library

Malcolm Muggeridge, a writer of note, commented recently about the hurrah concerning the banning of pornography: if indeed pornography is
for the purpose of sexual stimulation, then it is certainly unnecessary for the young, inconvenient for the middle-aged, and out
of the question for the elderly; hence the concern is moot! But the fact is that the question is NOT
moot, regardless of the undoubted logic of Muggeridge’s statement. The right to speak, write, and read what one wants—the right
of the individual to make that selection for himself—has been very much a source of concern from time immemorial. Some
have traced the ways of the censor as far back as 3000 B.C. In the United States, the 1798 Sedition
Act was an effort to prohibit the residents of the new nation from writing or printing anything derogatory about the
officials of the country (the Supreme Court subsequently struck this down as unconstitutional). Pennsylvania has the distinction of having the
first conviction under the common law regarding the prohibition of sales of ‘‘lewd and obscene materials’’ in 1815. The Tariff
Act of 1842 was passed by Congress and forbade the importation of obscene literature and was followed in 1930 by
yet another Tariff Act giving the Secretary of Treasury the authority to decide what was and what was not obscene
and therefore importable. 1969 saw the first legislation recommended to the Congress by a United States President regarding the curbing
of obscenity or pornography.

The problem, of course, is simple: who is the censor, where does the censor start, where does he stop, and
who censors the censor? The problem goes to the very heart of the matter of freedom. The truth of the
matter is that there has never been a person forced to pay to see a moving picture, a book has
never jumped off the shelf into the hands of a reader, and no conclusive evidence has yet been given to
say that such material causes a criminal act. The Warren Supreme Court ruled on the issue of pornography and obscenity
in the 1950s and 1960s. The court acknowledged that a (See FREE, page 12)
