After Us — The Deluge!
GRAY WILSON

The Davidsonian
April 13, 1973
Page Five

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Honors College Fits Student To Its Plan

To the Editor:

There are two approaches to structuring an honors college. One starts with the bureaucracy and fits the student around the
machinery; the other starts with the students and gears the machinery towards his needs. Let us consider the Bevan-Johnston-MacCormac proposal.
It begins with a special building housing a special faculty pursuing their special goals. There are provisions to recruit ‘honors’
students who are interested in these special goals to come to Davidson. The problem is that no student—no matter what
his capacity for mature creativity and honors work—can enter such an honors college unless his project happens to correspond to
the specialty of

Precautions Exalted Beyond All Reason

By far the greatest hindrance to human life and sanity, by which all manner of daily accidents and catastrophes do
breed foul upon this globe, lies under the black and blue heading of all time: highway safety. Such institutionalized stupidity
proceeds from the dullness, incompetency, and deception of the general populace and takes a greater toll in human ball joints
than any leviathan to rear its head since J. S. Mill bit the dust of his proverbial anthill. Safety is
that means by which 100 innocent men suffer rather than kill one clumsy ox. Being a non-partisan cause, it attracts
those of weak mind and even meaner character. The object is to dilute whatever conceivable danger there is by exalting
precautions beyond all reason. Lost in such circumspect pettiness, the original danger emerges again to claim its quota. In other
words, trying to keep from falling off a cliff, one often slips and breaks his neck on flat ground.

To cite a familiar case in point, consider the two yellow speed bumps between the laundry and Belk dorm. They
are designed to slow the speed of anything larger than a camel in lieu of pedestrians. If a car approaches
over 10 mph, it may ski-jump these mounds, losing all control and going in any direction. If the added stop
sign is heeded, the damage to shock and clutch and the time spent in the intersection increases the likelihood of
bumper-to-human contact and a stalled engine to boot. A foreign model, low on air, may even bottom. And stay.

If you make it out of town, and cross the steel-belted and burnished RR tracks without losing a chassis, one
last stop light awaits you before Hwy 77. At this intersection, which apparently merits a party hat because of the
General Time plant, I have not in four years ever encountered a vehicle coming from the other direction, though invariably
that light catches me 90 out of 100 times. It is Davidson's own little monument to a quadruped in City
Hall, and a beacon of distress to all who enter.

The trip to Charlotte involves changes in speed limit, mostly to slow vehicles down so that the driver may admire
dual flashing yellow lights placed intermittently on Hwy 21. On the outskirts of the city a set of these mechanical
daffodils see you coming from a distance and start flashing if you are speeding. I was not even aware of
their unique function until about the fifth trip into Charlotte when I discovered that they did not flash all the
time.

The latest fad on auto safety has been concerned with the vehicle itself. Thanks to Nader's postulate that Corvairs, not
drivers, cause wrecks, various safety gimmicks have been added which do little more than soak Mr. Ford out of a
few tax loopholes. Pollution devices are another triumph. Not only do those coffee grinders on the exhaust system keep a
motor from cranking in the morning, drink gas, and destroy the tuning, they also have been proven ineffective in waste
removal by a government study. The seat belt has been elaborated into Charlotte's web, and anyone who gets harnessed up
properly in one deserves a feedbag. Despite a barrage of color commercials over TV recently urging everyone to buckle up
with a few cute examples (father-son, token blacks, teenage lovers exchanging safety vows), an article in “Parade” magazine has evaluated
their impact on the public as negligible. Apparently not everyone blames the Corvair.

Even the noble motorcyclist must wear a safety helmet to prove he has brains enough to mount the “tombstone on
wheels.” The choice is not left to the individual (the National Safety Council does not recognize this term), and rumor
has it that even William F. Buckley was caught in New York City violating a law designed to protect him
from his Honda 90. There is no sensation comparable to flashing down a strip with your head unencumbered and the
wind tearingPast like crushed ice with flecks of mica springing up from the pavement in bursts of light. It is
more than living. But a helmet destroys all this, and though it may make a cranial difference not in an
accident but in a freak accident, it cuts down on the ability of the rider to hear, a questionable improvement.
There are other areas of daily life where safety has wrecked all notions of efficiency and recreation. I could mention
how your outboard motor boat would sink if you took on every piece of equipment advertised by Joey Bishop in
the name of “good sailing." But the highway has attracted more than its share of dubious regulations, and until a
sensible approach to safety is taken, the death toll, which rises each year, will do no about-face. Cars don't cause
wrecks, nor do fast drivers. Poor drivers are the source of accidents, whether from the influence of alcohol, or an
inherent want of motor coordination. Speed does not kill, but a lack of judgment does. So the next time you
see a truck in front of you jack-knife and you start a few doughnuts in the other lane trying to
stop, just remember that flashing lights and road signs are society's way of patting your statistical death on the back.

One of the six or so honors faculty. If we were going to structure honors work based on the needs
of the student, we would start by considering the mental processes of the student creating an innovative project. If he
has a worthy project in mind, his problem is that he needs to get credit for it. He needs someone
to go to—let’s say an “honors coordinator”—who can match the project with the existing machinery. In order to schedule interdisciplinary
courses and special courses, the honors coordinator would have to have an appropriate working arrangement with department chairmen. Unlike the
former proposal, this structure has the potential of serving all students with worthy projects. This student-oriented structure was better approximated
by the Kelton Committee proposal. But the Bevan proposal passed the faculty. The student’s loss is the bureaucracy's gain. Equity
for the genuinely creative and innovative student is to make the honors college also a clearing house for all special
projects. It must be their responsibility to find credit for all worthy projects even if their chosen few can’t sponsor
them. As the situation lies, the honors college is merely one of many offices geared to give the innovative student
the runaround.

Douglas Sittler Davidson '73

‘Dutch Masters’ Debut In U.S. With Smash LP

A REVIEW By WILL ROBERTSON Staff Writer

“Moving Waves” is the American debut album by Focus, a dramatically-emerging four-man group from Holland, often billed as the “Dutch
Masters of Progressive Rock.” With Focus coming to Love Auditorium on Saturday, I was anxious to see if the album
would prove the group to have as much talent as my friends at the Union had promised. The album attracted
me with its strong rock-jazz flavor, challenging me to listen, and the more I did, the better it sounded. The
first song is “Hocus Pocus," which you may have heard on pop radio. Despite the name (Hocus Pocus by ?)
and top-40 orientation, the song builds well and contains some interesting guitar parts, in addition to an unusual yodeling break.
This rousing song is followed by two quieter pieces. “Le Clochard” creates images of sunrise around bass and acoustic guitar
lines. “Janis” is a smooth and peaceful tune, built upon a flute lead by Thijs van Leer. The side concludes
with “Focus II,” a fine song that is introduced by the organ, and falls into a well-conceived guitar lead that
is simple but very effective. Focus displays a great deal of creativity and sophistication in “Eruption,” a song in five
parts that composes the entire second side of the album. In “Eruption,” several themes are introduced and a wordless vocal
piece that is much in the style of a medieval chant. The powerful and reverent organ effects complete the feeling
of being in some strange and remote place. “Moving Waves” must be classified as a “heavy” album, but it does
not have to be loud to be enjoyed. It is pretty and sophisticated, and improves with successive listenings. Focus, already
highly respected in Europe, could quite easily be on their way to the top in the United States. Focus is
currently on tour in the United States and will be at Davidson this Saturday night. Their concert at Philharmonic Hall
in New York, a small auditorium similar to Love, electrified a capacity crowd and received rave reviews. I anticipate a
very successful concert at Davidson. Guitarist Jan Akkerman has the grace and command to reach an audience and carry it
with him. Come to this concert prepared, because Focus is going to do some cooking.
