(Staff photo by Goodman)

PROBLEMS AND HOPES

Dean Frontis Johnston discusses the Honors College.

Honor Students

By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

In the light of the faculty committee recommending the dissolution of the Honors College, six students in the Honors College
program were asked to share their thoughts and opinions on the program itself, the committee's report, and their experiences in
working within such a project. Throughout the interviews, several common thoughts emerged which were strikingly similar in tone and content,
most notably that there was a need at Davidson for a program like the Honors College.

“The college needs a program for students that have the maturity to do independent study outside of the highly structured
rules of the college,” said Thom Nicoll. Ralph Peeples agreed, saying, “The Honors College still offers a degree of flexibility
not often found in the curriculum.” Commenting on the idea of an inter-departmental Honors program replacing the Honors College, Jeff
Allender stated, “Davidson College itself is poorly equipped for independent study. If the Honors College were axed, it might be
possible to integrate independent study into the regular college, but it would take up too much of the professors' time.”

Bob Edmunds best described the most consistent problem with the Honors College, saying that “it didn’t have any organized structure
from the start. Its form was to come from the Honors College — administrator, faculty, and students, but it never
happened. Seminars and tutorials were not mapped out with the students, some of the advising was just lousy, and it
wasn't specific in its admission policy or its philosophy. The whole group of us hasn't even met all year,” he
said. “To tell you the truth, I probably couldn't name you half of the people who are in the Honors
College or what they're working on. We are no longer visible except in terms of a name.”

The Davidsonian
March 30, 1973
Page Seven

Dean Talks Of College Difficulties And Future

By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

A conversation with Frontis W. Johnston, dean of the Honors College, after the recent faculty committee recommending the dissolution of
the Honors College program revealed some of his hopes and doubts about the program and his vision for a viable
educational institution at Davidson.

“First of all, I think the committee made a thorough study, but it seems to me that the conclusions followed
from the facts. The people on the committee raised the right questions but came up with the wrong answers. They
did their job well. I don't quarrel with the data or the report, but the reasons for dissolution don't seem
to follow the conclusions. We want the place to have some sort of identity.”

“I also felt that the committee report didn't stress enough the factor of the administrative director's role. If you want
to change the Honors College, you first have to change its leadership,” Edmunds said. Graham Draughon said, “We need a
philosophy at the Honors College. The report had a valid criticism when they said it was too disorganized. A great
deal of organization will also do away with this elitist idea.”

An almost unanimous agreement among the six was that the committee's conclusions were narrow and unwarranted. “The report was inconsistent,”
said Draughon. “The first 29 pages had valid criticisms, but the last two pages did not follow from the report.
It’s almost as if they had written the recommendations first and then built a report around them. The Honors College
has not really been given a chance to work.”

Edmunds concurred by adding, “The Honors College has not really been given a chance to work.”

Independence Or Elitism? Student Opinions Vary Widely

By JIM PAULSEN
Contributing Editor

Student opinion concerning the Honors College is varied, encompassing both those who feel that the Honors College provides new avenues
for independent study and those who are bothered by the taint of elitism and separateness of the Honors College program.

“There are things that I like and that I don't like. I like the chance to be able to pursue
an accelerated course of study, free from the normal requirements and using all the resources available,” said Eric Walker. “I
am opposed to yanking out a whole bunch of professors and having them teach only a few students in the
Honors College,” he continued.

Many students agree with the flexibility and increased scope of activities that the Honors College offers. However, there is a
feeling among some students that the Honors College is too disassociated from the college community. “I think the Honors College
has set up a kind of elite group and needs to be brought into closer contact with the rest of
the college,” said Tad Barnes. Concurring in this view, Bill Crosland said, “The Honors College doesn't relate to the whole
college. Some people think of it only as a place to study. Because it is separated from the college community,
we rarely see or feel any action or effect from the Honors College.”

Some students suggest that the program should be reworked or completely changed. “I see the college as taking the...Steps to
do away with the Honors College. Then I think they should take the important step of making the whole school
an honors college and do away with petty requirements,” said Steve Canterbury. Several students who were questioned opposed the elimination
of the Honors College program. “I think it is quite a worthwhile program but it is difficult to run at
Davidson College because the school is small. It takes time, money, and professors,” said Mary Turner. “I don't think they
should abolish it because in the long run the Honors College may be beneficial to the school. It hasn't been
given an adequate trial period,” said Turner. “The Honors College should not be abolished because it is unfair to those
who have set up programs which would not otherwise be offered,” said Shaul Saddick. Generally, students on different sides of
the issue expressed concern for present members of the Honors College, especially rising seniors. “I think it is a screw
to people in the program now. There is an obligation to those in the program to carry it on and
slowly phase it out,” said John White. Judging from what information they had heard, a few students expressed support for
the committee's recommendation to convert the program into a center for departmental honors and a meeting ground for seminar courses.
“I don't like the method, but I believe that the Honors College has a function and a place in the
current curriculum. While it’s for the faculty to decide the issue, I hope that they will maintain it and the
concept at least for a substantial period of time, maybe three or four years. I would like to see the
EPC (Educational Policy Committee) come up with options for the faculty to allow the Honors College to go on. Yes,
I believe that the Honors College needs changing in grading, enabling the system, registration procedures, and the fact that transcripts
should be kept in the registrar's office. The Honors College needs someone to direct it. I believe the system needs
more vigorous handling. They shouldn't have made just one recommendation to do away with the program; they should have given
the college more options to decide the issue. That's why I'm glad they sent the report to the EPC (Educational
Policy Committee) for them to decide on it.” The phrase “elitist” is a much-used one when applied to Honors College
members, yet they themselves don't consider it so. “That statement seems to be counteracted by the fact that the Honors
College seminars are open to regular college students,” stated Roger Manly. “In fact, probably more than half of the people
in the seminars are in the regular college.” The students also feel that using the argument of overexpenditure, cited in
the committee report as being $85,000 for the Honors College per year, is not a valid argument for doing away
with the program. “Well, you take any group of students in a similar program, multiply it by the cost of
them coming here, and the Honors College program is not much more expensive,” replied Manly. “It needs more active student
participation. It also needs some sort of arrangements with the faculty so that more of them are able to participate
in the program. You sometimes hear of the Honors College as being an elitist group, but there is no sort
of elitism about it, and the students in the program don't look at it that way either. As to the
expenditure involved in the program, I think that it was a valid point for the committee to bring up, but
a very difficult one to substantiate. It's going to cost money no matter what type of program you run. Regarding
the cohesiveness of the program, it’s true that this year we were not very cohesive, but it’s not true of
previous years. At first, I set up two committees, the first being a housekeeping committee which was supposed to work
out rules for the use of the building. The second committee, a programs committee, was to decide what type of
programs the group wanted to give. Well, the housekeeping committee never made a single suggestion. In fact, I've never heard
from them at all. At first, we had approximately eight programs with a good turnout for the first one, but
after that, there was a poor turnout for the others. I'm sure that part of this is my fault for
not pushing the program as much as I could have. So it’s correct in saying that we haven't had any
programs this year, but it is not correct in saying that we haven't tried. Because I resigned last year as
director of the Honors College, to be effective after this year, I was sort of waiting for my successor to
begin instituting some of these changes. I don't want to point at anybody for the failures, but I think that
the concept of an Honors College is a valid one and I would like to see it tried at least
for another student generation. IT BEATS THE LIBRARY. Carolina Inn offers comfortable facilities.
