a he Davis guantant Subsidized Editor Coins Phrases Davidsonian ~ ye “THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING." —Marshall McLuhan ~ ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager OCTOBER 26,
1973

The Making Of A Dictator

President Nixon is a strange dude. He seems to delight in the unexpected to accomplish his ends. The most recent
examples of this are his firing of Archibald Cox, and his release of the White House tapes. We are appalled
by the Cox dismissal, for it represents the quashing of a credible investigation, which was independent of the Justice Department,
at a time when there were indications that Cox and his staff may have uncovered evidence potentially damaging to the
President. As for the release of the tapes, that was obviously the right course of action; only it came months
too late, after nearly precipitating one of the most serious constitutional crises since the founding of the Republic.

We find these unexpected changes in policy to be very disturbing because they indicate either that Nixon has lost touch
with the beliefs and viewpoints of the American citizen, or even that he just doesn’t care what the average citizen
thinks. We suspect it is a combination of the two: That Nixon makes decisions without getting significant input from anyone
outside a group of intimate advisors, who themselves seem to know little about what Americans think; and that the feelings
of our citizens are only of secondary importance anyway (We can't possibly know what is best since we are not
as informed as Nixon!?!)

Since there are no laws against a President making his own decisions in any way he sees fit, this in
itself is not ground for impeachment. It is, however, something that must be corrected, for the longer King Richard continues
to be unresponsive to the will of the people, the more his tenure in office will turn into the reign
of a dictator. As for impeachment, we feel that it would be wise to wait until all the evidence from
the various investigations is in before making any move. Until then we can only wait ... as painful as that
may be.

Commitment To Liberal Arts

Most Davidson students came to this college with an understanding that an appreciation for the liberal arts would be instilled
or further developed in them. Yet each year, disconcerted students grumble their discontent with the area requirements, physical education requirements,
and the lack of academic activities outside the classroom situation. Not a small number advocate abandoning the physical education and
academic course requirements.

Perhaps the reason that students express opposition to these requirements is not because they find themselves in opposition to a
liberal arts program, but only to the implementation of these programs at Davidson. Students find themselves faced with the inevitability
of taking three courses from each of the four areas of study. Yet are there three courses taught within each
area which are designed with the purpose of introducing the student not majoring in that area to thought-provoking material and
discussion? Is there truly an effort to stimulate study, which,While not involving the student in highly detailed material vital for
a major, helps that student develop an interest in that field of study? In the case of the student majoring
in pre-medicine, one can see a commitment to implement programs in the areas outside the natural sciences to enrich that
student’s study. Courses in medical terminology, medical sociology, and ethics are open to the pre-medicine major. Yet one has to
examine the Davidson curriculum intensely to discover this same effort to offer meaningful courses in areas not specifically related to
the student majoring in the humanities and social sciences. Chances are, no matter how intense the investigation, one finds that
the options simply are not there. For example, the natural science “21 level courses” are notorious as alternatives to meaningful
study or hard work. The “31 level courses” are equally notorious for offering detailed memorization without much thought. Somewhere between
these two alternatives, there must be a place for a professor to teach enthusiastically, to provoke thought and study in
his discipline for the benefit of the non-major.

If Davidson is to uphold its tradition of area requirements, which we strongly feel that it should, the curriculum must
be reexamined to ensure that students and professors alike do not face a morning of area requirement drudgery, but a
challenge to provoke discussion “in the realm of ideas.”

Secondly, the gymnasium is unfortunately not recognized as a great bastion of enthusiasm for the liberal arts. The athletic department
often appears to be too concerned with coaching varsity sports to allow the Davidson student a chance to enroll in
a P.E. course. Moreover, most of the courses which are taught are conveniently scheduled at 9, 10, or 11, the
hours during which students are usually engaged in academic or other pursuits. Physical education requirements are valid if the emphasis
is placed on teaching students sports which they can not only practice at Davidson, but pursue after graduation. We fail
to see the value of the physical education requirements if the emphasis is simply on getting the student out of
the gym area.

And finally, it seems necessary to ask whether the Davidson community is going to condone the scheduling of classes at
10, an hour specifically designated as an activities hour. When a student chooses to take a course marked on the
registration sheet TBA (to be announced), that student can expect to have a class at 10. And although many professors
may deny that they have any intention of scheduling a course during the activities hour when they fail to designate
a time period for their class, there seems to be a rather remarkable proclivity to find that students already have
classes at 8, 9, 11, 12, and 2, leaving the 10 o’clock hour as the only available time at which
the entire class can meet.

The significance of the 10 o’clock class is significant. With such scheduling, symposiums, lectures, films, and other activities designed to
bring the entire college community together cannot be programmed. We feel that students have legitimate complaints concerning the dedication of
Davidson to its liberal arts program. If we are to continue to value the strength of the Davidson College liberal
arts program, some investigation and change is necessary to provide students that physical, mental, and spiritual liberation Davidson promises in
its catalogue.
