Faculty React To Compensation Report
By TOM BRUCE
Associate Editor

Members of the Davidson chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) pointed out in interviews this week the
danger of complacency and false euphoria in the issue of faculty compensation.

“I am not trying to belittle the national AAUP report which shows that Davidson has achieved a very good record
of faculty compensation relative to its size,” stated Brown Patterson, professor of History and president of AAUP. “However, I am
concerned that we understand that the favorable report is based on grouping Davidson with other small schools that do not
have graduate programs.”

Patterson referred to an independent study conducted by the AAUP to measure the comparative salaries and benefits offered by the
colleges and universities in the United States. To ensure parity, schools are grouped in sections of similar size and program.
Full professors at Davidson received an average of $20,600, according to the most recent study, and associate professors accrued $16,300
on average. Assistant professors were paid an average of $13,900, while instructors netted $11,800 on average.

“These different categories are somewhat artificial. We will not be able to compete in the hiring of new faculty members
if they are attracted by the larger schools which offer more. Davidson must realize that in regard to faculty hiring
it is in competition with the small universities and, to an extent, the large ones, also,” Patterson said.

Plan For Released
By BOB HOWELL
Managing Editor

A proposed system of faculty and administration evaluation was presented this week to the faculty by the Committee on Professional
Affairs (CPA), which has been working on the plan since early last term. Professor of Religion Max E. Polley, chairman
of the CPA, stressed the tentative nature of the proposal. “We wish the faculty to discuss openly this working document
and to revise and improve it,” he said. “The basic issue,” he noted, “is whether or not we want to
give faculty members administrative responsibility in this area.”

The committee began work on the plan in response to a request from Vice President for Academic Affairs John M.
Bevan concerning faculty promotion, tenure, and reappointment. Bevan, feeling present evaluation procedures were

SUBSCRIBERS
To those subscribers who have not been receiving their copy of THE DAVIDSONIAN every week, we are presently trying to
correct the problem. If within another two weeks, you still are not getting each issue of the paper, please notify
us and we will rectify the situation.

The local AAUP released a report within the last two weeks to the entire faculty which showed that Davidson may
be actually regressing in the area of faculty compensation. Based on comparisons of all professors who taught at Davidson in
the school year 1966-67 and all professors teaching at Davidson in the school year 1971-72, there was a small net
cost in actual buying power. Personnel records show that in 1966 the average Davidson faculty member received $11,435 in salary.
By 1972, the mean salary was $14,580. To counter the effects of inflation, the Department of Labor Consumer Price Index
was utilized. So in 1966 currency, the 1972 figure of $14,580 was only $11,294. Consequently, Davidson faculty members are being
paid only 98.8 percent of what they were paid in 1966 in actual buying power.

Another study conducted at the request of College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. last year shows that the professor who
stays at Davidson over a period of years can expect his buying power to keep pace with rising costs.

Vol. LXII, No. Fifteen

This study set to examine specifically the salaries of individual professors who taught at Davidson in the 1966-67 school year
and also in the 1970-71 school year. This group, by no means a select one, enjoyed a 5.5 percent increase
in their actual buying power. The Consumer Price Index was also used to calculate the influence of continuing inflation in
those years.

“Our faculty enjoys a relatively high salary scale, and our school is in rather select company in this regard,” explained
Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell. “Only 40 colleges in our category achieved the highest possible rating
for all faculty posts relative to total compensation,” he said. “The AAUP study reflected not only the actual salaries of
faculty members but also the fringe benefits that are paid at Davidson. For example, 15 percent of a professor's salary
is paid into a retirement fund. The college pays 50 percent of a faculty member's Blue Cross and Blue Shield.

(See FACULTY, Page 12)

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
February 9, 1973

Cornell Announces Federal Funds Loss Due To Future Housing Committee Delay
By BRUCE MALOY
Managing Editor

Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell announced in an interview Monday that the college will not be
able to get federal aid to build new student housing. The college was planning to apply for a Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) loan which would have a three percent interest rate. This program was discontinued in President Richard Nixon's
new budget. Cornell explained that applications for DebtService Grants, as the program is called, “had to be in the pipeline
by February 1." “This means,” said Cornell, “that we will have to get a shorter-term commercial loan at an eight
or nine percent interest rate.” Business Manager Robert A. Currie gave the details of the program, saying that the college
was actually planning to get a commercial loan and that HUD would pay the difference between that interest rate and
their own three percent rate. “There was a small possibility that we could have gotten a direct loan from HUD.
A HUD loan is for up to 40 years,” said Currie, “whereas a commercial loan will be for 20 or
25 years.”

“Let's assume,” said Currie, “a construction cost of $8000 a bed for a 200-bed complex. That’s $1.6 million. Just to
show you the difference, interest on a three percent loan over 30 years would be $833,000, a six percent loan
would be $1,822,000, and the interest on a nine percent loan would be $3,041,000," he said. “We can't know the
exact term or interest of the loan until we get it,” said Currie, “but these figures give some indication of
the amount of money we're talking about. I would think that if our interest rate were as high as nine
percent, however, we'd try to get the loan for the shortest possible term.”

“I couldn't have guessed six weeks ago that this was going to happen,” said Cornell. “We have discussed this project
with HUD,” said Currie. “In November, they said they'd be sending someone to work with us.” The information put out
by HUD says that working drawings must be sent with each application. At the time of the cut-off, the college
had not chosen an architect. “There were two closing dates for applications for funds from the 1973 budget,” said Currie,
“January 1 and May 1, 1973. We were geared toward meeting that May deadline.”

“I'd like to point out,” said Cornell, “that slowness of action is one of the prices that you pay for
allowing so many people to have a voice in what type of housing we will have. I'm not opposed to
student input on these matters nor am I blaming anyone, but when you work through a large committee as was
done in this case, you get burned once in a while.” Asked what the effects of the fund crisis would
be, Cornell explained that, “It could force us to cut costs on the housing, to delay construction, or both.” Cornell
added that student room rents are expected to bear the cost of housing. “I also realize that there is a
ceiling of costs which students can afford,” added Cornell.

“This problem will put a further strain on the same funding apparatus that has to finish paying for the new
E. H. Little Library, a new Union, and new science facilities,” added Cornell.

(Staff photo by Porter)

DAMN THAT NIXON

Cornell announces freeze in HUD funds.

---

Faculty Evaluation For Further Study

Inadequate, recommended a more formalized method to ensure accurate appraisals of faculty members and an expanded role for faculty and
students in evaluation. He hoped such a plan would also provide complete and permanent records of the evaluations and appropriate
legal safeguards in employment contracts. The proposed document suggests that “a committee which includes faculty members should have the responsibility
for advising the president concerning appointments, reappointments, terminations, tenure, promotions, and salary increases of the faculty.”

Consisting of five people—the three divisional chairmen elected for staggered three-year terms, one faculty member elected at large to serve
as chairman for a four-year term, and the vice president for academic affairs—this committee would be the central point of
evaluation. “We felt anyone elected to serve on the committee should be in at least his fifth year of teaching
at Davidson so he'd have an understanding of how things work here,” Polley explained.

The CPA proposal listed three basic criteria on which a faculty member would be evaluated. One basis, teaching competence and
skills, would entail such factors as a professor's competence in his discipline, ability to communicate, availability to students, and enthusiasm
for what he teaches. Other criteria would include professional competence and skills (such as research projects in progress, publications) and
community service (participation in on- and off-campus activities). A faculty member usually would be evaluated once every four years; each
year any faculty member eligible for tenure and/or promotion would be evaluated. Nominations for faculty members to be promoted would
be submitted to the committee by departmental chairmen. New and non-tenured professors not on terminal appointments would be evaluated annually
in the case of one-year appointments and at the beginning of the second year in the case of two-year appointments.

The committee would obtain information on faculty members from reports, recommendations, and interviews of departmental chairmen and interviews with faculty
colleagues. A faculty member being evaluated would also be interviewed by the committee concerning how courses taught contribute to the
general goals of the department and the curriculum.

(See PLAN, Page 12)
