Self Study Report Readied, Curriculum Changes Expected
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Contributing Editor

It appears likely that the College Self-Study report, which will be prepared by a faculty committee this winter, will recommend several changes in the present curriculum. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said that he expects the report will include recommendations for increasing career service options and the number of interdisciplinary courses and seminars, as well as possible calendar modifications.

The last self-study, undertaken during the 1963-64 school year, was instrumental in initiating the extensive reforms that were made in the curriculum in the late 1960s. At that time, the curriculum was altered radically, the present trimester format replaced the old semester calendar, and such options as extended studies were made available. However, Bevan does not expect this year’s self-study to cause any major upheavals and characterized the study as an evaluation of "where we have been and a projection of where we are going next," but he emphasized that any changes will be to "reinforce future existing trends."

"What we have been doing since 1968 is articulating the Blue Sky report, and now we must decide where to go from here," he said. Bevan said he did expect the report to make recommendations on the current controversy regarding the religious requirement for tenure, but that he could not anticipate with certainty what other recommendations might be made. "Anything that is on the minds of the faculty at the time will be incorporated into the study," he said.

The 1963-64 report included close to 200 recommendations which covered all aspects of college life. Several recommendations may be made concerning the alternatives to the present calendar format. It is a distinct possibility that the report may recommend the present calendar be revamped to incorporate year-round study, featuring an integrated program of classroom study, career service, and independent research. Such a program would be similar to that presently offered by Beloit College in Wisconsin. However, Bevan pointed out that since the majority of Davidson students go on to graduate or professional schools, the traditional prerequisite courses must still be offered.

In addition to recommendations concerning career service and interdisciplinary course offerings, the report may recommend that there be more emphasis placed upon student-originated study. Student-originated study involves giving credit for student research done on a more structured basis than extended studies. It would not preempt extended studies.

The period of self-study does not end officially until the spring of 1975 when a review board sent by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) will visit the campus to confirm the report and offer their recommendations. Recommendations for any major changes in curriculum, calendar, etc. would not be acted upon until that time; however, Bevan emphasized that this does not mean that there will be no changes for several years. "Things which are noticed during the course of the study will be acted upon as needed," he said.

The preparation of the self-study began this week with the election of the Steering Committee by the faculty. The committee, composed of professors J. Harris Procter, W. Brown Patterson, Hallam Walker, Robert Manning, and a presently undetermined fifth member, will assume responsibility for appointing committees and will compile the final version of the report to be issued next fall. Every college which wishes to be re-accredited by the SACS must prepare a self-study report.

Trustees To Consider Evaluation Policy
By MARK DEATON
Managing Editor

The statement on policy and procedures for faculty evaluation prepared by the Committee on Professional Affairs will be presented to the Board of Trustees at the coming meeting. This statement describes procedures for initial appointment, reappointment, nonrenewal, promotions, tenure procedures, and annual salary reviews.

Careless Errors Complicate Present Registration System
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Managing Editor

"Any error is a large error when you work by number alone." So cautioned Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. He went on to explain several problems the registrar's office must cope with and why Davidson students presently use the preference card system to set up their schedules. Burts feels that the preference card system is a better system than those used in the past. However, as in any registration procedure, there is always room for improvement.

Perhaps the most significant advantage of the preference card system is that it provides a maximum opportunity for students to get what they signed for on their pre-registration cards. This is especially a relief for freshmen students. Burts commented that there are now about only 700 places filled by the time freshmen come up for registration compared to about 2100 under the previous system. This is possible because each student's first choice is verified before the computer begins to sort out the second choice cards. Burts admitted, however, that the system is impersonal incomparison to other methods of registration. He also cited several problems with the present system and encouraged students to think about ways to improve it. Burts commented that junior Steve Canterbury was the originator of the preference card idea. Burts emphasized care while filling out preference cards. “We continue to ask students and faculty to seek prerequisites. What we're saying is, if there is an approval required, don’t sign your name until you're certain about it.” He named two points which cause problems most often. “Students and advisors both need to be very careful about course numbers and alpha numbers," Burts said. A student wastes one of his preferences by making careless errors such as putting down the wrong alpha number or by forgetting to put his name on his preference cards. Burts said that the computer system has worked fairly well since it was instituted five years ago. Computer breakdowns have sometimes caused inconveniences, but they have not resulted in any major delays. He explained the two previous systems used for student course registration and gave reasons why Davidson now uses preference cards. Freshmen retain the old system when they register for Fall classes. This procedure involves establishing a ceiling for each course, preparing the preference cards in advance, and handing them to department chairmen. The chairmen sit behind tables in Chambers Banquet Hall while students file by and choose their courses. The lineup is determined by a lottery. Burts explained that the value to this system was that the student could “shop around until he received three cards.” Also, department chairmen could inquire about necessary prerequisites and could raise the ceilings of courses when needed. Students knew when they walked out of the banquet hall which courses they would be taking. However, the system limited the preferences of a student who chose a high lottery number and was especially disadvantageous to freshmen. The other method of registration proved to be unrealistically lengthy and frustrating for both the student and the registrar's office. Every student was issued a scanner card on which he filled in his course choices. The computer processed the cards and ceilings were established afterwards. Some students had to go through two editing sessions with the registrar's office before their schedule was finalized. Also, there were a great number of careless errors, and some students could not get the hang of filling out the computer scanner.

Vice President for Academic Affairs Joe M. Bevan indicated that although this policy was a far cry from the original draft, he was happy to have this formalized statement from the faculty. “This is an elaboration of the system that already exists,” said Bevan. The procedures emphasize the place of the vice president for academic affairs and the department chairmen in evaluating faculty performance. Committee on Professional Affairs Chairman Max E. Polley indicated that this policy is a formalized codification of present practice. “In recent years, the department chairmen have been assuming more authority in the process of evaluating individual faculty members within their respective departments,” Polley said. “There was a time when the administration did virtually everything. This plan calls for the department chairmen to assume partial roles as administrators,” he explained. “Although we feel that evaluation of the faculty is mainly an administrative duty, we are willing to allow our department chairmen to share in that evaluation,” Polley added. “The chairman knows the general field and brings a certain amount of expertise to the evaluation process,” Polley said. A previous draft written by the Committee on Professional Affairs called for a committee composed of faculty members to evaluate the individual faculty members. This plan was almost unanimously rejected by the faculty. Professor of Philosophy Earl R. MacCormac was the greatest supporter of that plan. “Tenure is coming under attack more and more as it is seen to be a system which allows professors to hide and vegetate,” MacCormac explained. “We have a vested interest in faculty tenure. I feel that only through ensuring the performance of our colleagues and taking the responsibility for individual members to improve their competence can the tenure system be maintained,” MacCormac said. “However, I wish the faculty had set up a small committee dominated by faculty and the vice president for academic affairs to pass judgment on tenure, promotion, and salary situations,” MacCormac explained. Polley explained that the faculty rejected the previous proposal because the faculty members were hesitant to sit in judgment of their colleagues. Polley had certain reservations about the present procedure for evaluation of faculty performance. “My concern is that this system puts a lot more work on the department chairmen,” Polley said. President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. indicated that he had certain reservations about the present document. Spencer indicated that he was wary of this plan as it had a tendency to make department chairmen administrative officers. “I think faculty evaluation should be a cooperative venture,” Spencer said. “I think it has been too much of an administrative procedure in the past without enough faculty input. The statement as written by the Committee on Professional Affairs will be initially taken to the Board of Trustees to pass this as a policy statement,” Spencer said.