Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR FEBRUARY 23, 1973

Budget Blues

A federal budget which can build new bombers and aircraft carriers but has to cut financial aid to students says
more about the country’s priorities than most people would like to admit. We like military hardware just as much as
the next warmonger but why can’t there be money for education too? Many taxpayers will rejoice at the idea of
a slight tax break, especially when it involves a slap at the “effete intellectual snobs” in their ivory tower. The
saddening thing is that Nixon's budget cuts are a huge rip-off. These same taxpayers will find their sons' and daughters'
tuition increased or their state taxes increased to help state schools absorb the shock. They'll pay somewhere, just as Davidson
College will pay.

Where will Davidson go for money? Our financial resources are already strained by trying to build a new Union and
new student housing. We can't afford to cut the size of our student body so what will be cut? (Don't
be surprised if you see the guesthouse being remodeled to serve a long stint as a Union.) Davidson could attempt
to recruit low-income students for the federal money they would guarantee, but even that dubious practice wouldn't cover the loss.
Cutting the overall educational expenditure while spreading the money out thinner may make some people content, but it’s a sham
as far as education is concerned. Nixon is trying to get a few points in the Gallup poll at the
expense of American students.

Locals Monopolize

In recent weeks the phenomenon of local community youths dominating college facilities to the exclusion of students has increased beyond
the point of reasonable toleration. Davidson students are finding themselves excluded from using gym facilities, specifically the basketball court, and
union pool tables and pinball games, because they are occupied by youths from the Davidson area. Sad it is indeed
to conclude that rules regarding this sort of thing must again be enforced, but the simple fact remains that both
the Union and the Gymnasium facilities, limited as they are, are intended primarily for use by those within the college
community.

It now appears that the situation is being remedied, at least partially, in the Union where officials are now making
an effort to see that Union facilities are available for students any time they desire to use them. We would
like to commend those Union officials for their renewed efforts along these lines. It is hoped that this example will
in turn be followed in the Gym so that those students who wish to use it will always be able
to do so. We express regret that the college should in this way close itself to the community at large
but we feel that it is the college's place to provide activities first for Davidson students, instead of for those
people who in no way contribute to its financial support. Perhaps there will come a day when college facilities can
provide recreation for students and local youths alike, but under the limitations of the present physical plant, this is not
possible.

Welcomed Firsts

If you have perused the editorial column thus far and are in need of cheerful words, please flip back to
page one and notice the early admissions figures, especially those concerning next year’s freshmen women. Nothing pleases us more than
running information of this sort, and though 13 women may seem a drop in the bucket, consider them to be
the welcome firsts of many more to come.

MILES WARD

Kennedy Escapes New Turks, Then Gives In To ‘Gobble’

They struck Reggie Kennedy last year with fierceness. A mad intensity. It was a bitter attack on a part of
Davidson the likes of which we'd never seen before. Reggie fled to California. He moved back to Washington. He knew
they were hunting him, keeping him away for a purpose. Kennedy became a beaten, debilitated non-person. He murmured only one
phrase—"The Turks." Again, but much softer, “The New Turks, here.”

For his whole life Kennedy had been an all-round, clean-cut good guy. When the Turks made their move on Davidson
he was the first they attacked. Reggie was conspicuous in his sport coat and button-down shirt. The New Turks began
an assault to drive him out of school, out of his mind. After a six-month exile, Kennedy was allowed to
come back. He was at once what their motive had been. In the time he had been away, the college
Union...had been destroyed. The New Turks had done their job. It is only today, a year after his terrifying flight,
that Kennedy can talk of what happened. Even now, though, he speaks cautiously, his voice dropping into the lowest pitches
while his eyes watch all entrances. He talks of the birth of these New Turks. Reggie saw them begin in
1969. Innocently enough, then. A protest, a rally, some demonstration of power, flexing political muscles. A mastermind was certainly behind
all that he saw, and his cruel scheme continues today. The New Turks were then dormant for a few years.
Their activity was highly secretive. They spoke, no doubt, of a Davidson destiny. Of how to gain control, how to
use it. History of their period of formulation is scanty. Kennedy felt their presence, though, and mentioned it once to
Shaw Smith. In the next month, he became a wanted man. Turks hunted him out at night. They threatened his
home, his car, his grade-point average. Reggie could only escape in shame. ‘Don't tread on who?’ But what of Reggie
and the Turks today? He returned, alas, only to embrace their peculiar philosophy, their twisted logic. He is a New
Turk now. He and the Eastern European Coalition, the J.Y.A. Exchange in the eight college pumps new blood into the
New Turks. Kennedy is frank today. He speaks of the power of the Turks. The old politicians are now Turks.
Those of Grey House and those who would like to be. All New Turks. Kennedy pulls a small volume from
his pocket and reads of the New Turk dogma. “If one wants to throw egg on the face of Davidson,
then do it at ten o'clock in the morning. No one is ever at their proper place at ten o'clock
in the morning. That is the hour of coffee. Our destruction of their central meeting place leaves them fragmented. Strike
quickly. Education is a giant myth. Honors College our greatest fraud.” I leave Reggie and he continues to read his
list of maxims. He knows all by heart, his work now only a daily drill. He has been honest, though.
The New Turks are at work. Through the maze of buildings and constructing buildings, their cry comes to me. From
afar, then closer and right behind comes the war cry of the New Turks. ‘Gobble, gobble.’ Nearby a pernicious reply,
‘Gobble, gobble.’ The sound strikes at my brain, makes me shiver.

Metamorphosis, a symposium on the arts, will be at Queens College on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday. Featured will be
James Dickey, who will read his poetry and comment at 11 a.m. in Dana Auditorium. Also on Monday’s schedule is
a talk by Paul Hamphill on “The Redneck Mystique.” Hamphill is a novelist who will have a collection of his
magazine pieces published in the fall. He will speak at 2:30 p.m. in Dana Auditorium. Also appearing will be George
A. Stegner, a Queens faculty member, in a piano recital, and Joe Phillips and The Dawson Boys in concert. The
public is cordially invited to attend the symposium presentations and a nominal fee will be charged for a few. Photographs
exhibited by photographer Ben Moore are up and coming February 18 at Davidson in Chambers Building. A reception will be
held at 1 p.m.

“Heat The King,” a contemporary theater with capital letters. Performances will be tonight and tomorrow night at 6:15 p.m. and
Sundays at 2:00 p.m. Student tickets are $3. Mark Alwood, Grin and Mato, music par excellence, will be appearing at
University Hall at the University of Virginia on Sunday, March 4. Performances are at 8:00 p.m. and tickets are $3.
“Le Bal des Voleurs,” a play written by Jean Anouilh, will be given on March 7th in Hodson Hall at
Davidson, under the direction of Candide Carrasco, who is an exchange student from Morocco. The French department is putting on
the play, which is termed a sprightly farce. “David Copperfield,” a film version of the classic novel by Charles Dickens,
with W.C. Fields, Freddie Bartholomew, Lionel Barrymore, and Frank Lawton, will be shown Saturday at 2:00 p.m. in the Golden
Circle Theater of The Mint Museum of Art. The eccentric charm of Dickens' characters is skillfully reproduced in this famous
movie version of his novel. The film is 90 minutes. Admission is 50 cents.
