sie fie-' DONUT

Limuel Thomas participated in the symposium.

The Davidsonian
January 26, 1973
Page Seven

Panel Argues Prison
By VAL VAN HORN
Staff Writer

Trying to imagine an effective corrective system, a panel of six discussed "What Should Happen in Corrections?" in Hodson Hall
Tuesday as part of the Corrections Symposium.

Frank Hall, area coordinator of the N.C. Commission of Corrections, thought it important to recognize that corrections are part of
a process. He feels that people go into prisons who should not be there. Hall is a strong believer in
both prevention and probation, and Operation Regress-Recap, a gradual process of re-entry into free society after serving time.

A lawyer from the American Civil Liberties Union, George Daly, said that there are four steps to an effective corrective
system: reformation, the realization that the inmates’ destiny is in their control, conservation of self-respect, and the formation of industrious
free men. Daly feels that one of the major problems of the correction system is that the public does not
care about the welfare of the inmate. He used the public opinion about the death penalty as an example of
this attitude.

Hall's, Cone’s Solutions Differ
By HARRIET HODGES
Staff Writer

Speakers Frank Hall and John Cone suggested differing solutions to the crime problem during the Symposium on Corrections held here
January 22-24.

Hall, an official with the N.C. Corrections Commission, focused on the progress that prisons can make toward rehabilitating prisoners. "We
want to provide them with an opportunity to make a gradual re-entry into society. In our efforts to prepare inmates
to re-enter society, we are trying to do much the same thing that the defense department is attempting to do
for prisoners of war," Hall said.

"For the most part, offenders are people who have the potential to lead normal, legitimate lives," Hall said. "They are
generally people with little education, they are from poor families, and they often have spotty work records. Most have known
failure."

Of primary importance in the corrections process, according to Hall, is prison officials’ recognition of the reasons people are in
prisons. "People in prisons have basic needs just like people outside. Only they have found no way to meet these
needs."

During the process of rehabilitation, the kind of custody an individual receives should be in keeping with the degree of
custody he needs, Hall said. "As a man gets near the end of his sentence, supervision should be minimal."

Ideally, rehabilitation should consist of an inmate’s return to the community on a gradual basis, according to Hall. Hall pointed
to programs which allow inmates to return to school or work in the community as examples of the type of
rehabilitation he hopes to see.

The community can play an important part in the rehabilitation process, according to Hall. In helping the inmate, organizations such
as Community Colleges, Mental Health clinics, and Family Planning services provide an aid which the prison cannot offer. Hall predicted
a decline in the prison population as corrections officials realize that there is no need to institutionalize many.fenders. As a
result, the use of probation and parole will increase. This will leave prison officials with a more challenging population of
prisoners, according to Hall. "However, this is better than spending time and money on a man who could do just
as well outside," he said.

Unlike Hall, John Cone offered no hope that prisons could serve to rehabilitate offenders. "Corrections officials are out of the
picture when the inmate gets out of prison. This is not true with community resources," Hall said. Cone, director of
Project Fisherman, a convict rehabilitation program in Boston, Mass., said that the crucial question to ask was, "What will reduce
the rate of crime?" He added that this was the purpose of Project Fisherman.

In finding a solution to the crime problem, we should work before the crime occurs to detect problems which may
cause the individual to be an offender later, according to Cone. Cone pointed to recognition of learning disabilities in school
children as one possible tactic. Cone insisted that crime exists because of the "willingness of society to let it exist.
Only by changing the structure of the system so that there is human concern and sensitivity can we break down
barriers which pit one man against the other."

The greatest threat to the future, according to Cone, is violence. "And prison is the most visible institution of violence
in society today," Cone said.

WHAT SHOULD HAPPEN IN CORRECTIONS

(L, R) Frank Hall, George Daly, Nathan Witherspoon, Ed Palmer, John Cone, and Peter Gerns lead panel discussion on corrections.

Needs And Problems

In order to give his idea of an effective corrective system, Nathan Witherspoon, an inmate at a North Carolina prison,
felt that "effective" needed to be defined. Witherspoon feels that if the public is frightened of the inmates, the inmates
are equally frightened of the public. According to Witherspoon, the major complaints of the inmates depend on the nature of
the crime, as felons and misdemeanors are treated differently. He says that the complaints are mostly about living conditions. Witherspoon
also spoke of the sponsor program, where someone will sponsor an inmate and escort him to public functions, outings, etc.

John I. Cone, director of Project Fisherman (non-profit chartered operation providing both a "Release Treatment Program" and a "Diversionary Treatment
Program"), says that we "have to recognize that the greatest public crime is the building and development of the first
prison by the Quakers." Corrective institutions should be a graduated system of increased treatment and care, Cone said. He advised
the audience to "get involved in the community before they are arrested for repeating crimes or serious crimes."

"Every prisoner has a right to privacy," says Peter Gerns, an area lawyer. Among the improvements that Gerns feels should
be made are more single cells and the reduction of solitary confinement. "Society must address itself to the inmates’ psychological
needs," he said. "Conjugal visits should be allowed because this will reduce the homosexuality rates in prison," he said. Gerns
also feels that "work release is very important."

(Staff photos by Powers)
