**Diamonders Surge To 5-1 Early Mark**

By JIM SEPPERSON
Sports Editor

With a five and one record so far, the baseball team is looking towards the Southern Conference championship year. “The overall team play has been particularly good and if our pitching comes around, I think we'll have a good chance of winning the conference,” commented Coach Jack Burris.

After having their first game rained out, the Cats went on to win their first four games over the spring break. Baptist was defeated 5-4, Francis Marion 7-6, UNC-Wilmington 4-3, and Methodist 3-2. The team dropped its first game to Pfeiffer last Saturday by a score of 4-2. “We out-hit them but we didn't get the hits in the right place,” said Burris. “Combined with the mental errors we made, it gave them the game,” he added.

The strong point of the team has to be its defense, particularly in the infield. Burris pointed out that the team had made only four errors in their first four games, which he felt was “outstanding for this early in the season.” “Our hitting is coming around too,” Burris noted. “It was our weakest point before the season started. We just hadn't had enough batting practice.”

The team's hitting has been largely provided by Mark Rodgman, George Werker, and Jack Walters. Rodgman leads the trio with two home runs and one triple. The biggest problem facing the Cats at the moment is injuries to the pitching staff. Pitching was thought to be one of the team’s strong points before the season began, but half of the staff has been incapacitated with arm problems. Burris is especially anxious about the injuries to the pitchers. The team faces its first test from Southern Conference teams next week because “we play three games in five days next week and unless we get some pitching help we may not be able to make a good showing,” said Burris.

---

By JIM SEPPERSON
Sports Editor

John Wade has been named to fill the assistant football coaching position vacated by Ron Graham earlier this year. Wade comes to Davidson from North Carolina State where he spent last season as an assistant coach. He coached the offensive line and the JV team there. “I'm really glad to be here,” said Wade. “I only heard about the job about a week before I accepted the offer so things were kind of on the spur of the moment.”

---

Davidson Prognosticator Predicts Wildcat Basketball Season Record

By BOB WETZEL
Asst. Sports Editor

In the wake of the now-concluded Davidson basketball season, a number of facts are clear:
1. Davidson's varsity finished with an 18-9 record.
2. The Cats won their ninth Southern Conference regular season title in the past 10 years.
3. Mitchell Johnson, a Davidson senior from Charleston, South Carolina, correctly predicted the Cats’ regular season won-lost record (16-8) at the beginning of the season.

The first three of the above observations are pretty much common knowledge, but the last one probably isn't. But it is just as true as the others. Johnson's amazing prognostication was the result of a project in Randall Kincaid’s Economics 113 class of the fall term. The class, which is titled “Managerial Economics,” emphasizes a number of decision models for use by businesses, other institutions, and individuals.

An individual project emphasizing at least one of the models studied was a substantial part of the course. Mitchell used the time series regression model and Jerry Roberts’ computer program for statistical systems in conjunction with data gathered for a number of variables related to Davidson basketball over the last 10 years in formulating his prediction. “The topic was a natural one for me,” he commented. “I've always been interested in basketball. Like almost everyone else here at Davidson, I played in high school,” Johnson added.the necessary information for his project from the registrar's office, the basketball office, and the office of sports information. "Everyone was most cooperative," he noted. "The only problem I had was with the coaches. Coach (Bo) Brickels thought I was spying for the budget committee."

The factors considered in the regression ranged from common physical attributes (height, weight, age) to less relevant variables such as birth order rank and College Board scores. The variables selected by the computer for the final regression formula were:
1. average team class.
2. number of returning opposition lettermen.
3. whether or not the head coach was Coach of the Year in the preceding season (negative factor).
4. number of All-Americans on the squad.

The resulting coefficient of determination (for those interested) was 0.90 with a corrected standard error of 17.84 percentage points. Though the prediction was for 16 victories, the range of 96 percent confidence (two standard deviation) was from 14 to 18 wins.

"The project was interesting," Johnson added. "I'd never had any experience with the computer before." He also said that it was interesting trying to figure out if the prediction would come true during the season. "I thought the loss to West Virginia had blown it," he said. "But the victory over Furman made the prediction look good."

Mitchell commented that he had informed Head Coach Terry Holland of his findings just before the Wofford game (the first of the season). "He just smiled. I don't know if he even remembers it now."

Emil Parker, Davidson's sports information director, was another case. Johnson said that "he sort of frowned and referred me to some nationally syndicated power ratings which predicted an 18-6 regular season for Davidson."

Mitchell noted that he still has the formula from his regression. "If someone would be willing to collect the necessary data next fall, it would be interesting to see if the regression was correct two years in a row," he added.

HELP WANTED
$100.00 weekly possible addressing mail for firm—Full and part time at home—Send stamped self-addressed envelope to HOME WORK OPPORTUNITIES, Box 566, Ruidoso Downs, New Mexico 88346.

Bowling
MOOR LANES
Daytime Student Rates — Snack Bar
Billiard Tables
Mooresville

PIP Ball Machines

Wade continued

Wade is enthusiastic about his new position and expressed optimism concerning the future of Davidson football. "After meeting Coach Fagg and the rest of the staff, I was really impressed. The Southern Conference is a fantastic place to begin coaching and I feel that the potential of the school football-wise is really good," Wade said. "It’s only a matter of time before the program starts to pay off here."

Wade qualified his optimism by pointing out that a lot of Davidson losses last season occurred in the last several minutes of play. Wade felt that the biggest problem for the football team at present is recruiting. "It's hard for a school like Davidson to attract top athletes who are also good students," Wade said.

One of the factors which attracted Wade to Davidson is the stress placed on the passing game here. "I like the passing game. It makes for more exciting football and it's a lot more enjoyable to watch too," Wade said. In connection with his preference for the passing game, Wade felt that his biggest contribution to the team as an offensive line coach would be to "enable the line to hold their blocks a little longer so the receivers could execute their patterns and the quarterback can throw without much pressure."

Head Coach Dave Fagg welcomed the addition of Wade to his staff saying, "John is a great coach and we were lucky to get him to come to Davidson. I think that he can make a tremendous contribution to the program here."

Wade is a 1971 graduate of South Carolina State College.

NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING
"We Rent Tux"
Cornelius, N. C.
Phone 892-8064

SNEAKY SHOE
The Red Hanger and LUCK's Elephant Barn
115 N. Main
892-7501