Page Ten * April 20, 1972

Basketball Funding Alternatives Cited

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

(Ed. Note: This is the third article in the series on Crisis In Athletics. It will deal with the aspects
of a nationally prominent basketball program, what it takes to maintain it, and what should be done in the future
with regard to the basketball program at Davidson.)

Athletics are a business enterprise for an institution such as Davidson College. They do, of course, promote school spirit, bring
students and alumni closer together, and give the school a nationally known reputation. But at most schools competing in major
college sports, there is a definite business aspect involved. Athletics should thus be treated as such.

It was pointed out in the last issue of the DAVIDSONIAN that the basketball program lost almost as much money
as the football program here. The figures for these sports are $140,000 and $160,000, respectively. It should be noted, however,
that these figures did not include the money flooded into football via the Wildcat Fund. Adding this scholarship amount, the
total for football reaches approximately $266,000.

“I do not like the idea of comparing the amounts of $140,000 and $160,000 to each other,” explained Head Basketball
Coach Terry Holland. “You have to add in the money that comes through the Wildcat Fund.”

Holland then went into an explanation for making the above statement. “The school does not let us raise our own
money,” he said. “If they wanted me to do this, I would be more than happy to do it.

“I also feel that the $140,000 that was spent on basketball was not lost. It was the amount that we
were allotted in the beginning and we used what we were given,” he continued.

From talking with Holland, it becomes quite apparent that the basketball team could make it on their own without taking
funds from the college. This would, however, cause competition between the Living Endowment, the Wildcat Fund, and whatever organized effort
was initiated to raise funds for the basketball program.

“I would be happy to run the program on a completely auxiliary basis,” said Holland. “I think that the program
would have enough potential to do this now, considering the established reputation that basketball has at Davidson.

“This will not hold true in three years if we cannot continue to compete successfully within the national scope,” warned
Holland. “We have got to maintain our national prominence if we want to recruit players of national calibre.”

According to Holland, the basketball program is “fighting to maintain national prominence.” With the rising costs of college athletics, this
is becoming increasingly harder. “Basketball is a big business,” said Holland. “Many schools are pouring in funds to their basketball
programs that a few years ago were mediocre.”

He cited more examples of schools which were putting in tremendous allocations for the support of basketball. “Clemson, South Carolina,
ECU, Appalachian, Virginia Tech, and William and Mary have all built new arenas since I graduated in 1964,” he stated.

“Basketball is probably the major college sport today, in so far as attendance and interest are concerned,” continued Holland. “Just
look at all the people that watched the NCAA Championship game between UCLA and Memphis State,” he cited as an
example. The number of estimated viewers of the nationally televised contest was over 38 million, for a new record of
spectators for a sporting event.

The 1974 NCAA Finals, scheduled for Greensboro, N.C., had over 60,000 ticket requests in more than 20,000 pieces of mail
less than 12 hours after the first legitimate postmark time arrived. There were only 8,800 seats available in the beginning.

“The 1950s and 60s were the big decades for college football,” said Holland. “But basketball has far surpassed it in
the 70s.”

But it does “take money to make money,” as the old saying goes. Money is a key factor in building
and maintaining a nationally prominent basketball program. “If that is what we want at Davidson, then we are going to
have to...”put the money into it in order to get it,’ declared Holland. It is becoming more and more apparent
that, if Davidson does not put enough money into the basketball program, then the college will be left behind, just
as it was in football.

One of the possibilities for increasing the basketball monies would be the institution of a requirement that students and faculty
members purchase tickets to these contests. At the present time, students are given their seats absolutely free. At the same
time, they are given the "best seats in the house." Faculty and staff members, along with their families, are also
admitted free of charge. At other institutions playing major college basketball, this is hardly the case. Take, for example, the
University of Maryland. A sum of $10 is taken from the activity fee of each student, which covers the cost
of student tickets to all home basketball games. It also grosses $300,000 for the basketball program. There are approximately 30,000
students at Maryland.

Now, adding the money that would be made if all the people who are admitted free to Davidson basketball games
now were forced to pay for their tickets, plus the amounts that could be made if the students were not
given the $5 and $6 seats (unless the students would be willing to pay for seats of this nature) and
these seats were sold to season ticket holders, as well as regular paying spectators, one arrives at a nifty figure
of close to $60,000. This would significantly reduce the present costs of the basketball program.

If, indeed, the college is completely sold on the idea of a nationally prominent team, then it should go after
big-name opponents that would draw large crowds. Sports Information Director Emil Parker estimated UCLA would come play in the Charlotte
Invitational Tournament for about $25,000. It seems possible, then, to get the Bruins and two other schools to come to
Charlotte; the two nights would almost certainly be sell-outs. Estimating that 12,000 tickets would be sold at about $5 apiece,
then the school would gross about $120,000 for the two nights. Subtracting expenses of about $45,000 (which is probably very
liberal), then Davidson would net close to $75,000 or over half of the present budget.

It seems highly possible that, run as an auxiliary program, the basketball team could easily make as much money as
they are losing now and most likely much more. The question would then be raised as to whether or not
this should be done. Economically, it seems to be very attractive. As far as spreading the name of Davidson across
the country, it would keep the program in the national limelight. It would also maintain a program which would leave
open a means of relating the alumni to the present student body. But ultimately, it would present stiff competition with
the Wildcat Club and the Living Foundation for contributions which, one way or another, end up at Davidson College.

Potentially speaking, the basketball program is the prime Davidson candidate for national recognition in athletics. It simply reverts back to
the matter of priorities that came out last week. If the school wants athletics, it will have to pay for
it. Holland feels that if "you want to compete on a certain level, then you have to pay the costs
of competition required to play there." If run correctly, the basketball program could be a real business success as an
auxiliary enterprise. It seems that this would accomplish the purpose of athletics at Davidson: to spread the name of the
school and give the alumni a means of relating to the students. It should be given serious consideration, if not
a trial period of three to five years. But the time for the move, as Holland pointed out, is now,
not in three years. If the change is to be successful, it would demand immediate action.

(Next Week: The fourth article in the series will deal with the aspects of the minor sports at Davidson. It
will also investigate the college's policies regarding non-subsidized athletics.)

"Nature, to be commanded, must be obeyed." — Francis Bacon

Then enjoyed. That's why we make a natural beer. A beer without any additives or chemical preservatives. For a natural
Rheingold taste you just can't find in other beers. We know how you feel about beer.
