Eight November 2, 1973

The Davidsonian

Wildcats Seek Win At VMI Tomorrow

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Davidson travels to Lexington, Va. tomorrow to face the VMI Keydets in a clash which will go far in determining the final finish of the lowest segment of the Southern Conference race. At the present time, the Cats hold the unenviable position of being in the conference cellar. With an 0-5-0 record, Davidson is just behind the Citadel at 0-4-0 and VMI at 1-4-0. With just two games remaining in this season, the Cats need a win over the Keydets very badly. By winning tomorrow and again in their last contest against The Citadel, Davidson could assure itself of no worse than a sixth place finish.

In comparing the two teams, a look should be given to the common opponents that the two have faced, and their showings against them. Against East Carolina and Richmond, both squads were soundly defeated. VMI got the only score of the two teams in any of the encounters, losing to ECU 42-7. In other conference contests, the Keydets have fared decently against Furman, losing 19-13, but were thrashed by William and Mary 45-14 last week. Davidson, on the other hand, was embarrassed 38-7 by Furman, but made an impressive showing against William and Mary, dropping the game by a score of 51-35. The Cats lost to Appalachian, while the Keydets beat The Citadel in the only other conference action for the two clubs.

Davidson will rely heavily on the arm of junior quarterback David Harper. He is the number one quarterback in the nation, according to the recent statistics of the NCAA. He will have at his disposal, the top three receivers in the Conference in Walt Walker, Gary Pomeroy, and Mike Harding. Walker is still the number two receiver in the nation while Pomeroy is in the top twenty. In the past two contests, Harper has thrown to these primary receivers for a total of 66 completions in 105 attempts. He is certainly keeping alive the Davidson tradition of a passing attack. He has shown marked improvement over the past few games and will be the key factor in the Cats' quest for a direly needed victory.

VMI is rated a 4.8 favorite by one national rating service. In the last meeting of the two clubs, the Cats came away the winner in a tight battle, 18-14. Davidson held a 10-0 lead going into the second half. But a strong passing attack by the Keydets pulled them to within two points at 16-14 before the end of the third quarter. That attack was led by Tom Schultze who passed in the game for 228 yards and the two touchdowns. Schultze is now a junior. He is regarded as a fine passer and will give the Cat defense, especially the secondary, a strong test on Saturday. One of the key factors in the outcome of the game will be whether or not the secondary of the Wildcats will be able to contain Schultze. Junior split end Ronnie Moore will be the key man Schultze will look for as he attempts to bring the Keydets higher up in the conference standings. Schultze has also had a problem with interceptions as his opponents have picked off 18 of his attempts in seven con-

Falcons Grab 41-19 Victory Despite Strong Passing Attack

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

An upset-minded football team threw a scare into nationally ranked Air Force last Saturday, before bowing 44-19 to the Falcons. “The Air Force game was another fantastic effort by the team, they really gave it everything they had,” commented head coach Dave Fagg. The Cats went into the game as fifty-point underdogs and proceeded to play their best game of the season. After stopping the Falcons, Davidson managed to march 65 yards in seven plays to take a quick 7-0 lead. The score came on an 11-yard pass from Dave Harper to end Gary Pomeroy. “There were 36,000 people in that stadium when we got that first touchdown, the whole place fell dead silent,” said Bill Winkenwerder. Although Air Force came back, the Cats were very much inthe game until the last five minutes. Davidson could have conceivably walked off with the upset of the year in college football if it had not been for several penalties. “I don’t like to gripe about officials, but if it wasn’t for four calls, we could have won the game,” Fagg stated. One call in particular came with a fourth and goal situation at the Falcon two-yard line. The score was 21-7 at the time when Harper’s touchdown pass to Walt Walker was called back for offensive pass interference. “The films show that the guy had grabbed hold of Walt and Walt was only trying to get free at the time,” Fagg said. After several controversial calls, Fagg raced out on the field to protest a decision and was given a 15-yard penalty. “I think the call that summed up the officiating was when Ingold got hurt,” Fagg said. “The official called time out and charged us with it, and I went over and told him that it was an official time out for an injury. He told me that our trainer had come out onto the field and then I pointed to coach Couch (Davidson’s trainer), who was standing on the bench the whole time. Then the official decided that he wouldn’t charge us with the time out. “I knew right then that it was going to be a long afternoon,” Fagg continued. The Cats came out of the contest with several impressive statistics. Quarterback Dave Harper now leads the nation in passing and was named Offensive Player of the Week for the second time in as many weeks by the Southern Conference. “Nobody has been named player of the week twice in a row since Gordon Slade was here,” Fagg said. “This is also the first time that we've ever had the number one passer in the country,” Fagg added. Walker is currently ranked as the number two pass receiver in the nation and Pomeroy is number 16. Together with tight end Harding, they are ranked one, two, and three in the Southern Conference. Defensively, Fagg singled out defensive end Ross Manire. “Manire played an outstanding game. He has developed into one of our most dependable players this year and his performance has really meant a lot to me personally,” Fagg said.

shh! we work. quietly
The Quret Company
Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N. C. 28036
College Agents
Brad Tipler
Dick Richardson
Rollie White
Bill Smith
Mike Pappas

Rush 25¢ Gemoc... tests. It will be the first time that the Cats have met a team which has comparable offensive statistics. VMI has had a tough time on the ground, getting only 635 yards in seven games. They have 999 yards in the air. The game is set to begin at 1:30 p.m. at VMI Alumni Memorial Stadium. It will be carried live on WDAV-FM beginning at 1:15. (Staff Photo by Goodman)

PERFORMANCE UNDER PRESSURE
In the past two football games, Davidson quarterback David Harper has come through with splendid passing exhibitions for the Cats. Despite his efforts, the Cats have dropped both games to William and Mary and the Air Force Academy. Harper along with the rest of coach Dave Fagg’s gridders will be out to change this.

Box 2408
892-7561

Of Jewelry
2D JEWELERS
Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N. C.