October 5, 1973

The Davidsonian

Up ‘n’ Coming

HOMECOMING WEEKEND

Friday, October 5
10 a.m. Slide Presentation of Classics Seminar
10 p.m. Committee

Monday, October 8
10 a.m. Davidson

Tuesday, October 9

Wednesday, October 10
NO CLASSES
4 p.m. Sole Dele his! Seco co ro 8D Vcaececereretere

(Continued from page 1)

not entitled to representation at faculty meetings. Some maintained that the presence of students at faculty meetings would have an inhibiting effect on discussions. A number of professors stated that students would not find participation at faculty meetings “worthwhile or productive.” Still others favored some kind of student input in campus governance but thought that the input should be at the committee level. Many faculty members conceded that students had a role to play in campus governance, but it seems unlikely today that they will approve a college assembly on which students will be able to vote or even listen on matters of educational policy, curriculum, or salaries. Even among professors who favored the college assembly format, a majority indicated that there should be provision for closed meetings under some circumstances.

In response to the question “Should students vote in a faculty assembly except in faculty personnel policy matters?”, 10 said that students should be allowed to vote and 12 said that they should not. Six offered no comment. Some faculty members observed that students are already serving on standing committees where very sensitive matters are regularly discussed. Students are already passing judgment on details of the curriculum, the calendar, and on governance. Currently, salaries are decided outside the faculty meeting, as are personnel situations involving individual faculty members. Faculty members in favor of student participation asked repeatedly why students should be restricted from larger meetings of the faculty when they are already being represented in committees, “where the real power lies.”

Fifty-two professors were asked “Should the faculty elect a chairman pro-tempore?” Fourteen said yes, 13 no, and 25 answered no comment. The latter response was due largely to lack of knowledge concerning the functions of such an office. Those responding affirmatively saw a need for a faculty representative to speak for the faculty, while others thought the office was unnecessary as present means of communication were adequate. The lack of knowledge on this issue is perhaps the most significant finding of this area of the poll. Overall, the faculty displayed only a degree of sympathy to students, although in a sense these two groups are allies; both groups seeking a larger role in college governance. The poll on student involvement in faculty meetings shows students still face considerable opposition in even attending, and greater opposition in voting. But this determination of the faculty to control what they see...

Christian Tenure

(Continued from page 1)

timents known. He did say, however, that the work of the committees might obviate the necessity of the requirement. Certainly, many of those in the committees clearly do not believe the restriction is necessary. “If this is what provides definition to our community, we've missed the boat,” Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said. “I don’t think the church of God needs such a regulation to protect it.” How to determine who is a Christian and who is an “active member” is a problem for Bevan, whose job includes hiring faculty members. For instance, a Unitarian is not considered a Christian under the By-laws. McKelway insists that the requirement is a misuse of...

Photographers Association
SGA Grievance
10 a.m. Movie: “Michaelangelo”
7 p.m. Worship Service

COLLEGE CONFERENCE DAY
Lecture discussion Series: Catherine Taylor Ruth—“Urban Areas: Growth Limits”

Faculty Morrison Room
Cunningham Room
Cunningham Room
Morrison Room
Church Chancel
Hodson HallChristian confession anyway. “The Christian man is not called to a life of pious isolation,” he said, “but is both freed and challenged to participate in the world of men and ideas openly and fearlessly.”

Minister to Students W. Rush Otey III expressed a similar opinion, citing John Calvin, who urged Christians to “learn from that light of truth which is admirably displayed” in the works of “heathens.” Any man who sincerely seeks the truth should not be eliminated because of such a requirement, Otey said.

Seniors Allan Ware, a member of the Faculty Religious Policy and Program Committee, and Woody Connette, president of the YM/YWCA, see the requirement as a restriction on Davidson. “The college can't develop itself to its full academic potential,” Connette said.

Hall Award
The late appearance last spring of “Inklings,” the annual publication of the freshman class, delayed the announcement of the winner of the R. Windley Hall Writing Award. Last week the department of English announced that the winner of the prize was Steven L. Vitek. There was no runner-up.

Homeworkers. Earn $60 weekly addressing envelopes. Rush 25¢ Gemoc., POB 21244 X, Indianapolis, Ind. 46221

NC-PIRG Gives 210 Refunds
By JOHN TATUM
Staff Writer

The North Carolina Public Interest Group (NC-PIRG) has refunded the $3 fee funding the program to 210 students over the past week. The fee, which was included in the comprehensive fee presented to students, is used to finance operations of the four college NC-PIRG. The other schools involved in the program are Duke, St. Andrews, and Wake Forest.

Andy Lamas, one of the organizers of Davidson's PIRG chapter, said he felt student resentment of the collection process was warranted. He feels the fee should be collected voluntarily rather than included in the comprehensive fee as it was this year.

Reaction from students who received refunds reflected dissatisfaction with the funding method of NC-PIRG. Sophomore David Cellon stated that he got a refund because “I needed the money. But I resented them (NC-PIRG) putting that on my bill.” Another sophomore, Eppa Rixey, voiced a similar answer. “I needed the three dollars, and I didn't think they should put it in the comprehensive fee.”

Erwin Barron, another organizer of the Davidson PIRG chapter, feels that the present funding process is the only feasible alternative. “We see ourselves as an organization like the SGA and the chorus, which get tuition fees like we do,” he stated. “If we had to raise money any other way we would spend too much time fund raising.” Barron believes that students will come to accept PIRG as time goes on.

The Davidson PIRG now has $2,243 to send to the state board. The money will be allocated by the board to various projects throughout the state.

Fine Film: “Los Olvidados”
8 p.m. Love Auditorium

Thursday, October 11
10 a.m. Coffee & Cokes Chambers Banquet Hall
7 p.m. Catholic Liturgy Phi Hall
7:30 p.m. Grey House Program: Dr. Grey House

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

SHADE TREE GALLERY
Art On The Lawn
Homecoming Saturday October 6th
Hours from 10:00 AM. Until Sundown
Admission Free

MOORESVILLE
Only 6 Miles North

DAVIDSON
First Union National