Page Ten February 23, 1973

FINAL BOUT

Davidson wrestlers close season this weekend. Four Grapplers

By JACK LINARD
Staff Writer

"The season is over." Those are wrestling coach Charlie Parker's words about the Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament today and tomorrow
at William and Mary. “We are only taking four wrestlers to Williamsburg. There is no use in taking a wrestler
to a tournament in which he has no chance to place,” said Parker. Only Rob Benton, Randy Webster, Bernard Holloway,
and Bill Garrett will make the trip this weekend. Injuries and studies also contributed to the lack of a full
team. John Scandling will not be in shape following an ear infection, and Rusty Winchester and Charlie Dorsey both have
bad knees. Studies will keep both John Kennelly and Rob Jacobs away from the two-day meet. “None of the reserves
wanted to go,” Parker said.

Rob Benton will take Davidson's best dual meet record, 8-0, into today’s action. Despite the perfect record, Benton is not
optimistic about his chances to win the 134-pound weight class. “The East Carolina wrestler is very good. He has won
four tournaments this year against competition from all over the east and southeast,” explained Benton. Since Benton has defeated three
of the six wrestlers from the conference, he should place at least fourth. Randy Webster is the best hope for
winning a medal among the other three wrestlers from Davidson.

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Assistant Football Coach Ron Graham will not return to Davidson next year. Graham, a line coach, will be taking over
as junior varsity line coach at the University of Toledo next year. Graham joined the coaching staff last January, coming
from Ashland College in Ohio. Previously he had worked under Davidson defensive coach Bob Mosketti at Madison High School in
Mansfield, Ohio. Although this was only Graham's first year at Davidson, he made a valuable contribution to the coaching staff.
Head Coach Dave Fagg admitted that the staff will miss Graham. “Ron was only here for one year, but he
made a significant impact.”

Baseball Outlook Optimistic

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Baseball Coach Jack Burris is confident regarding his team’s chances this year. The baseball team has 25 members who have
been holding practice since Feb. 1. Burris is pleased with the condition of the team so far and although it
is too early to tell, he expects a “winning ledger” this year. “The practices have been pretty informal so far,”
Burris said, “so it’s really too early to make any definite predictions.” “Right now, we're just trying to get in
as much hitting as possible because the pitchers usually have an advantage over the batters in the early part of
the season,” he continued.

Burris felt that the team looked good as a whole and that the defense was particularly strong so far. “I
think that our defense will become our strong point once the regular season begins,” he noted. Burris also felt that
the Wildcats' hitting and pitching would be improved over last year. “We have Dwight Plemmons, Marshall Case, Ross Manire, Frank
Folger, and Joe Duncan returning from our pitching staff of last year,” Burris commented. As far as hitting is concerned,
the team has three of their four leading RBI men from last year. Included in this group are Captain Jack
Willets, George Weicker, who was last year’s Southern Conference batting champ, and Mark Rodgman. Burris added that first baseman Lynn
Wagner has shown much improvement over last year in hitting. Although there are only four seniors on the squad, Burris
felt that it is nonetheless an experienced team. “We have a few newcomers who can help us out at several
positions too.”Burris noted. These newcomers are Dave Ingold and Gary Pomeroy, both of whom can play in either the infield
or the outfield, according to Burris. Burris also felt that freshmen Joel Tew, Marshall Kearns, and Mitch Reaves would be
able to help the team this year. Thus far, the practices have been held whenever the weather permitted and, to
date, they have been fairly casual and informal. “We haven't had time to hold any scrimmages or to practice under
game-type situations yet,” said Burris, “but we expect to later this week and next week too.” The team has a
fairly rough schedule this spring, playing three ACC members. But Burris still felt that their chances for a winning season
were good. “I think we'll have a winning record if our pitching comes through. But we won't really be able
to tell until we open with Duke in a couple of weeks,” Burris said.

Bowling MOOR LANES Daytime Student Rates Snack Bar Billiard Tables Mooresville Pin Ball Machines

Discover the World on Your SEMESTER AT SEA Sails each September & February Combine accredited study with educational stops in
Africa, Australasia, and the Orient. Over 5000 students from 450 campuses have already experienced this international program. A wide range
of financial aid is available. Write now for a free catalog: WCA, Chapman College, Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666

"...year, but he made a tremendous contribution to the program at Davidson,” Fagg said. “I really hate to see him
go, but this is a tremendous professional opportunity for him,” he continued. Graham was one of the most popular members
of the coaching staff among the team. “Coach Graham was pretty fair to us," said Ben Hedrick. “He would work
us hard but he was also willing to kid around in practice a little bit.” Fagg felt that this was
one of Graham's strong points as a coach. “We demand that a coach give a lot more of himself at
Davidson than at many other schools. We have a rather small coaching staff, which means there's more work to do,
especially in the off-season,” Fagg said. “Ron was able to make this effort. He gave a lot of himself to
the program and it paid off,” Fagg added. Although a replacement has yet to be named, Fagg expected that an
announcement will be made “in a couple of weeks.” Candidates presently being considered for the job include coaches from Western
Michigan, the University of Arkansas, and several other colleges. Some good high school coaches are being considered as well.

GRAHAM Cornelius, N. C. NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING “We Rent Tux” Phone 892-8064

U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare It’s not easy, is it? In 20 years, after 146,000 more cigarettes, you
think it’s going to be easier? Don't kid yourself. Quit now. You'll never get a chance like this again. This
space contributed as a public service.
