By VAL VAN HORN
Asst. Features Editor

Managing Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN Bruce Maloy has now had a taste of police work. As one of the eight
students in Extended Studies “Criminal Justice in North Carolina,” Maloy rode with two members of the Charlotte police from 7:30
p.m. - 4 a.m. to get an overall perspective of the responsibilities of police work. Said Maloy, “Our track was
a Goldwater prompted this change. We have another three-block street going up from it, and then one parallel with the
first one and another to form a track of four three-block streets in the shape of a square. There are
five districts in Charlotte. We had the center one.

“It was very surprising the way the police were—none fit the stereotype of the fat, happy, dumb cop. The one
I rode with from 11 p.m. - 4 a.m. had finished four years of college, and quite a few of
them are taking courses in law enforcement. Another thing that surprised me were their views. I asked them their opinion
of legalization of marijuana, capital punishment, and things like that. The one I rode with from 7:30 - 10:30 has
a moderate viewpoint. He is opposed to the legalization of marijuana, but he’s consistent. He’s down on alcoholic beverages, too.

“He believes there are some men who can never be rehabilitated, that society can do without. There is always a
possibility for them to escape, like that man who escaped from a meeting and raped a girl before he was
recaptured. He thinks that capital punishment is discriminatory and said that 90 percent of the prisoners on Death Row are
black, and that a good lawyer can get the ones who can afford it out of anything.

“The second policeman is for the legalization of marijuana. He feels that if Paul Harvey and Barry Goldwater condone it,
the time has come for it. He also thinks that capital punishment is discriminatory.

“The night I was with them, there was an armed robbery at an all-night store, a type of Seven-Eleven. The
manager was shot in the leg. There was also a robbery at the Golden Eagle Motor Inn, and a speed
chase. We looked for an armed robbery suspect. What was really amazing was the suspect's description that I heard over
the radio. He was a black male, about 5'10" and 150 lbs., dark clothes, full beard, black hat with a
bill, and possibly glass cuts on the lower part of his trouser legs. I thought with a description that concise
it’d be easy to find him, but at a raid we pulled later there were at least a dozen men
who answered that description.

“I thought that the evening would be something like ‘Adam-12,’ but it wasn’t at all.”

Women’s athletics are in danger of disappearing from the Furman campus, and the reason, as with many organizations at Furman,
is the apathy of the students. Plagued by both poor turnout for the existing teams and poor spectator support, the
women's program is failing and will lose its budget unless the present trend is reversed. The problem lies in two
areas—in women’s intercollegiate sports and in the intramural program. Women's field hockey, gymnastics, and basketball had barely enough participants to
have a squad this year, though the tennis and golf teams seemed to have less trouble. Intramurals have failed because
there seems to be no natural basis for competition among them, the fraternities want to beat each other, and the
non-fraternity men want to beat them, too. However, the women have no sororities, and there is apparently no class or
dorm loyalty.

Because of the problems in women’s sports, the Furman Athletic Department is working on a plan to form co-recreational intramurals.
Badminton, tennis, bowling, softball, volleyball, and swimming all lend themselves well as co-rec teams. The co-rec season could be carried
on at the same time as the men’s intramurals, and men who play intramurals for fun as much as for
pure competition could play in both the co-rec and the regular men’s leagues. One person commented, “To get most Furman
girls interested in something, there has to be the possibility of a date lurking behind it.” If this observation is
true, then perhaps the co-rec league is the answer.

Maloy Goes On Patrol, Nothing Like Adam-12

The police rarely have to use their guns. “There was one man who came into the station with his hand
bandaged. His wife was staying at her mother’s, and he went over to see her. A friend went with him,
and they started to wrestle at the mother's house. He told his friend they shouldn't wrestle in the house, but
somewhere between him saying it and their stopping, his 14-year-old brother-in-law got shoved. So the 14-year-old hit him, and he
shoved back, just shoved, and the 17-year-old brother-in-law hit his hand with a ceramic ashtray and broke his thumb. Then
the wife came out and smashed the matching ashtray over his head. The 14-year-old returned with a shotgun leveled at
him and...cocked it, and along came the mother-in-law who chased him out with an ice pick. “I asked the police
what their worst problem is, and I was told, ‘family squabbles.’” She Davidsonian April 20, 1973 Page Seven

(Staff photo by Goodman)

TIGHT INSTRUMENTALS Jan Akkerman, lead guitar for Focus, played for two encores Saturday night in Love Auditorium.

Two Davidson Seniors Win Scholarships At Vanderbilt

By MARK DEATON Asst. Managing Editor

Two Davidson College seniors, Henry Jennings and Mike Kelly, have been awarded honorary scholarship grants to pursue professional studies at
Vanderbilt University beginning in fall, 1973.

Senior Mike Kelly has been awarded a Patrick Wilson Scholarship to study law at Vanderbilt Law School. The scholarship program,
founded by a prosperous Nashville family intimately involved in the law school, awards five scholarships annually. The $5000 annual stipend
is awarded solely on the basis of merit.

Also awarded a scholarship grant for graduate work at Vanderbilt was Davidson Senior Henry Jennings, who is the recipient of
the prestigious Justin Potter Medical Scholarship. Jennings’ scholarship also totals $20,000, $5,000 annually for four years, and like the Wilson
Scholarship, is awarded on the basis of leadership potential in the respective field, in society, and academic excellence.

“Winning this scholarship obligates me to Vanderbilt Law School,” said Kelly. “I couldn’t be happier. Ultimately this probably means I
will remain in the South and practice law,” Kelly indicated.

Fifteen finalists in the scholarship competition spent four days with the selection committee in Nashville. After the interviews during those
days, “The selection committee wined and dined us and showed us the Nashville city night life,” said Kelly. “We had
a chance to make friends with the other candidates, get to know the selection committee members, the faculty and staff,
and scholars there now,” Kelly indicated.

Kelly is the seventh Davidson student to win a Patrick Wilson Scholarship. As such, Davidson students have been granted more
of them than have students from any other school. “They've shown that they're interested in the kind of students we've
got here, and I'd like to see more Davidson students take advantage of the opportunity,” Kelly said.

Jennings is the third Davidson graduate to receive the grant since it was founded in 1961. “I think that’s a
tribute to Davidson,” he said. Like Kelly, Jennings plans to remain in the South after his graduation. He feels that
one of the objectives of the scholarship committee is to aid in the training of young professionals who would seriously
consider practicing in the South, rather than migrating to other parts of the country.

“You have to be a resident of the South to be considered and after that, I think they're looking for
men who show an inclination to stay south,” Jennings said. Jennings also expressed a willingness to see more Davidson pre-med
students apply to Vanderbilt in the future and apply for the scholarship as well. “So many people here seem to
lean too strongly toward Duke and Bowman Gray or their state schools. Davidson graduates should think about Vanderbilt—it’s a fine
Med school and they seem to think highly of us,” he said.

“I’m very fortunate to have gotten the grant; I think Vanderbilt is a fine school and I hope to live
up to the expectations of the Potter Foundation,” Jennings concluded.

Deese Debut In Union

By VAL VAN HORN Asst. Features Editor

Due to popular demand, custodian/blues singer Fred Deese made a debut in the Union last Saturday. Deese sang both choir
hymns and ’30s blues, including “Hey Honey, Hey Babe.” He held a flat tan book while performing, and although he
riffled through it between numbers, Deese apparently was not using it to check the lyrics. Its primary purpose appeared to
be for Deese to beat time with, which he did, along with stomping both feet. The audience at times clapped
along with the songs, but most of the time tapped time to Deese's gutsy blues rhythm.

Packed though the Union was, students continued to drift in through the performance, and either stood in the back along
the bar or sat on the floor in front of the stage. Deese “laid it on” the crowd. Each song
was greeted by enthusiastic applause, especially an epic, down-home, foot-stompin’ number called “Baby Let Me Lay It On You.” Also
performed was a song which Deese wrote himself 30 years ago, a coaxing blues which didn't appear to have a
title.

Because not much time was spent rehearsing, Deese and his accompanist would pause between each song to get their respective
vocal and guitar key synchronized. Because not many songs had been scheduled, Deese had to repeat some of his numbers
which appeared earlier in the program. Despite these drawbacks, the concert went well. Deese was given two standing ovations and
two encores, only one of which he accepted. Once again, due to popular demand, Deese will appear soon after he
has “studied up some” on his songs. Accompanying Deese were Bob Long on guitar and Paul Irwin on harmonica.
