The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
SEPTEMBER 14, 1973

A Time For Change

This year marks what we strongly believe to be a new dawn in the life of Davidson as the primary molder in the total growth—intellectual, social, and moral—of the people who have chosen to spend four years of their lives here. Certainly, there is much to be encouraged about. For the first time, there are enough coeds so that they can begin to assert a positive influence on the males here. In the area of financing—which had many expressing grave concern last year—there appears to be a break as the library fund drive is near completion, and one for new dormitories in sight. Needed changes also seem imminent in the whole academic fabric of the college. And so on.

However, the list is not endless. There are things here at Davidson that have not been improved which desperately need renovation. It is these negative aspects of Davidson on which we will focus much of our attention this year, so as to make the powers that be respond to these problems. For Davidson has the chance to become the finest institution of higher learning in the South, if only it will respond to the challenges of students and others.

In the first place, Davidson must move its Union out of the shabby building in which it now exists. And the time to make plans is now, not several years in the future. Students must also be given an important role in the new governance system, which is something that does not appear likely to us. The possibility that students will be given a significant part in making decisions directly affecting their welfare now seems slim at best as the Faculty remains strongly opposed to student participation in governance. Something must be done before it is too late.

The whole area of the Christian Commitment of the college must undergo a face-lift, so as to make it more harmonious with the concepts that students now have regarding religion. And as has been reiterated so many times before, the entire Athletic Program must be reevaluated.

However, what we feel to be the most crucial transformation needed is not a physical change but a silent change—a revolution of the mind—to raise the consciousness of everyone here—students, faculty, trustees, and townspeople alike—to the point where people can deal with others as genuine human beings. We would like to be able to foresee a time when this college could truly exist as a community (a word which must have been bandied around since the time that Davidson came into existence). To accomplish this, we cannot look to any one great Messiah but instead to everyone here. It is probably the ultimate challenge confronting us.

So to the readers this year, we warn you now that we do not plan to abide by the status quo, but to challenge. And in this struggle, we are not out to make enemies, but to convert. So be forewarned.

A Battle Won

Through the diligent efforts of many people throughout this country, Americans as a collective whole have begun to realize that ecological concerns must be weighed in balance with technological progress before decisions affecting both the earth and its inhabitants can be made. We applaud the courage and foresight of those people in the Davidson community who have blocked, at least temporarily, the construction of the proposed Marine World on Lake Norman. We concur with their beliefs that such a project would have caused far more damage to the social structure and environmental make-up of the community than could ever have been justified by the financial and recreational benefits of such a plan. Hopefully, the town will now proceed with the continued maintenance and improvement of its resources so as to ensure a clean, prosperous heritage for its inhabitants.

We feel that the lesson that can be learned from this struggle is that if people will only organize, they can still successfully protect their rights against the vested interests of money and privilege. And this is some hope for the future.

The Art of Raising Money

Over the past three years, the Development staff, headed by Vice-President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell, has done an outstanding job in increasing the amount of money thatThe college received from outside sources. Without such a performance, Davidson could have found itself in an extremely tenuous financial position at the present time. As it now stands, we are doing reasonably well at a time when many other colleges are floundering. In this regard, we would like to especially cite Director of Alumni Affairs Howard Arbuckle for his work with the Annual Giving Program. Through his efficient coordination of this program, the amount of money Davidson has received from its alumni and parents has risen steadily over the past three years to the point where in fiscal year 1973, the college received $294,568, an increase of $105,810 over 1971. So to Arbuckle, all his assistants, all the class chairmen, and everyone else in Development, we extend our congratulations and hope that their success continues.

By ALAN BLAKELY

The start of a new year always brings optimism. And there is much to be optimistic about. There remain aspects of Davidson, however, that deserve nothing short of abject pessimism. This week I shall try to dwell on the optimistic side as much as possible, even though everyone to whom I have spoken has entreated me to scathe.

I have observed the campus since returning. Davidson has a new look. It is commonly called the clean and innocent spirit of the Freshman. Two factors aid the life of this spirit, also known as the ghost-in-the-college. Mrs. Nicholls showed great intelligence in separating the freshman men’s dormitories. This has reduced the amount of noise and obscenity winging through the air. The great distance between Cannon and Richardson Dormitories has also kept the amount of water in the atmosphere at an all-time low. Not that I am against a little, good, healthy obscenity or a well-planned water attack, but an extremely cold shower and you who aren't liberated.

Many years ago, Alonzo Cohen, a noted Paraguayan philosopher on this subject, said: “A man may be the king of his castle, but it takes a woman to be Queen-for-a-Day.” This may sound like nonsense to the untrained ear, but to those of us who have spent years studying Professor Cohen, there is great hidden meaning.

Ease, something that this campus has needed for many years, has been present everywhere since we've returned. President Spencer is a fine example of the calm that has hit Davidson. He was at ease with his new faculty members at their reception and with students all week. This phenomenon is not so unpredictable since he spent years at Mary Baldwin. But it's something new on our campus. This may not be the only reason for his loosened countenance, but it can't help being a factor. He may feel, as many of us do, that this is going to be a very good year. Not that there won't be plenty to complain about and battle over, but that's part of the fun of being here.

The country club aspects of Davidson haven't changed much - we still need a golf course and sauna before we'll be THE club. The College Union (Temporary), with the addition of Duff Bruce, is planning bigger and better excuses for why programs fail. They're even planning some programs that might get some student support, including a TV room in the Lower Level (also known as the basement) where free beer will be served. The Union Board (Permanent) got an early start on booking concerts and social events. With a little student support...

The faculty has been enhanced with the addition of professors of divergent teaching methods and beliefs. Not to mention different sexes, an innovation whose time came 10 years ago in most places. A friend of mine tried to convince me that different beliefs and styles were brought on purpose. This he called the zoo approach to staffing a college. Personally, I believe it was what I call the Tower-of-Babel approach.

The Center for Honors Studies is starting its first year under the guidance of Professor Dean MacCormac. It can't but succeed considering his ability and enthusiasm. I warned you that this week I was going to be optimistic. It's an optimistic time of year. The purpose of this column in the future will be to analyze problems at Davidson and explore possible solutions. Not that I have any solutions, but if I can bring the attention of this country club to something other than tennis and handball, I will feel successful.

ALL WASHED UP