Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

FOUR NOVEMBER

Recycling And The Energy Crisis

“Don’t blame us, it’s those Arabs,” say the major oil companies of the United States. They even look like the
villains they are. So it is said and so believes much of the public. And though it is undeniably true
that the Arab oil embargo is responsible in part for our present fuel shortage, they should not bear the entire
blame, much as the American oil industry would like for them to.

According to a recent editorial in the Charlotte Observer, “Federal restrictions and taxes are responsible for the waste of perhaps
a half a billion gallons of crankcase oil each year.” The Observer explained that because of these restrictions and taxes,
it is now financially impractical to recycle automotive crankcase and lubricating oil for use in heating. From this, it is
not too difficult to conclude that the American oil industry might be using the situation in the Near East to
mask wasteful, but enormously profitable practices that themselves bear on the fuel shortage. The time is long overdue for repeal
of all such “legal devices” which render large profits to the petroleum industry and cause excessive waste of direly needed
oil. And let us not forget that the Arabian oil fields are finite. In the inevitable final fuel shortage, if
the squandering practices mentioned above are not halted, the situation will be dire. Finally, on a different note, if it
should happen as many economists predict, let this not be another opportunity for the oil industry to line its pockets
at the expense of the American citizen.

The Lingering Amnesty Question

The plea for universal and unconditional amnesty for those draft dodgers who refused to relegate their wills to the will
of the state calls into question exactly what a state may rightfully demand from its citizens before they are allowed
non-combatant status within the country. Those who do not cooperate with the selective service system face prison sentences, fines, or
exile. If a citizen is to enjoy the benefits of government, there seems to be an...

MARY HOBBIE

Ennui Dominates American Moods

We listen to national news accounts of the White House with an expression of ennui, a cover-up for which shows
us to be worldly-wise individuals. Now it seems that we smile to ourselves as yet another coat of thin-as-water cover-up
is applied to mar the surface finish of justice. The excuses offered by the White House for the American public
must start to answer this question with a new spirit. What can you expect? One can expect honesty in government.
One can expect elected officials to dedicate themselves to safeguarding the civil rights of those who elected them. One can
expect honor in action, not in semantics. Thus, the endeavor has spread. One can...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Expect leaders of our political system in the US to avoid corrupt or illicit business deals. One can expect officials
to be human and to make mistakes. One does not expect an official to be motivated solely by greed, power,
and self-love, and to knowingly engage in corrupt dealings. It feels incredibly naive when one wants to believe that the
citizens of the US, and one's fellow man, can exist in peace and desire to do good.

We must expect the best efforts from Washington, which their elected officials must ensure. It is unrealistic to suppose that
somewhere in political life there is someone who is not human. The attitude of "What else have you to offer?
We have to expect dedication to peace and humanitarian goals." seems to dominate the American mood. "What else can you
expect but crime cover-ups and infringement of civil rights? What else can you expect in government but pompous self-righteous speeches
and buck-passing?" Such no longer stops with the President.

We must not, by the silent smile or a shrug of the shoulders, excuse injustice or corruption. We must be
angered by the infringement of a fellow citizen's civil rights. We must be hurt by every blow to the dignity
of the Presidency by chicanery or demagoguery, evasion of responsibility, and love of flattery. These are the questions we must
ask. Our public officials must not believe that the electorate of the US will laugh at the corruption in our
nation’s highest offices. And these questions lead us to an attitude of "What can we expect?" We can expect the
best, which is for our officials to exert their efforts for the benefit and health of our nation. We cannot
accept anything less.

---

Entertainment
By FRANCIS TOWNSEND

"The Nutcracker" will be presented in five performances by the Charlotte Symphony and the Atlanta Ballet Company on Dec. 21,
22, and 23 in Ovens Auditorium. The Atlanta Ballet will bring the entire Company for its Charlotte performance, while 32
area children will also appear in dancing roles. The head of the Atlanta Symphony will be the guest conductor. Completely
new sets and costumes are being designed for the Charlotte performance, including a 250-pound magical Christmas tree which appears to
grow before the eyes of the audience. The performances of "The Nutcracker" will be at 8:15 p.m. on Dec. 21,
at 2:30 and 8:15 p.m. on Dec. 22, and at 2:30 p.m. on Dec. 23. Tickets are $3, $4, and
$5, and may be purchased at the Coliseum box office.

"Once Upon a Mattress," a musical based on the fairy tale "The Princess and the Pea," will be presented by
the Central Piedmont Community College Drama Club today, tomorrow, and Dec. 6, 7, and 8. The players will be accompanied
by a fifteen-piece orchestra. Tickets for the production are available at the CPCC bookstore at $1.90 in advance, and $2
at the door.

"Messiah" will be performed by the Charlotte Community Chorus on Sunday at 4:00 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. The event is
sponsored by WRT-FM and there will be no admission charge.
