Page Six February 23, 1973 The Davidsonian (Staff photos by Porter)

CLOBBERING THE PAYCOCK
Constance Welsh and Bob Wright perform in “Juno.”

AS THE PLOT THICKENS
Barber Defies ‘Juno’s’ Production Problems
By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Staff Writer

Tragedy, as do all dramatic genres, bears at best only a tenuous existence. As a concept it is ill-defined, and
as a label it is often loosely applied. The tendency, however, is to idealize, to abstract. In a tragedy, the
proximity of the tragic reality can become a force which overshadows all other elements in the play. In order to
serve a unity which will end in high drama, artistic necessity often denies characters their full humanity, and shunts reality
in order to obtain what is tragic. Other events and themes in a play subsidiary to the explication of the
plot are understandably distracting and detrimental to the impact of the tragedy. With this in mind, it is obvious what
difficulties were presented by “Juno and the Paycock” to the director Rupert Barber. Sean O’Casey’s “Juno and the Paycock” is
definitely not an easy play. Its widely polarized levels of tension—the tragic juxtaposed with elements of comedy, farce, and pathos—do
nothing to simplify the job of a director. But Barber’s direction surmounts any such problems. The play, including supremely difficult
basic scenes, comes across as a coherent unit. There are tender, compassionate scenes, and intensely funny ones, but never is
the inevitable fact of impending downfall forgotten. It is kept constantly in the foreground by two members of the cast:
Graham Draughon as Johnny, and Constance Welsh as Juno Boyle. Draughon’s the single constant uniting the play. He’s intense, nervous,
and frightened, and accomplishes the extremely demanding task of portraying a basically static character without lapsing into monotony. Equally arduous
and equally well done is Mrs. Welsh’s Juno Boyle. She is extremely strong but never does she become harsh. She
is a mother and wife, dedicated but not martyred. The character which Mrs. Welsh so superbly creates can be summarized
by a sentiment which she utters in her excellently handled scene late in act three: “Let us take care and
not lose sight of our role as our dearest, not stone, and make them hearts of flesh.” Robert P. C.
Lorenz as Joxer is also deserving of praise. Leaping from one moment and shifting the next tone, his face displays
the air of the nimble prognosticator that he is. Bob Wright’s distinctive portrayal of the self-deceiving Captain Boyle is worthy
of mention. Also notable are Ann Williams as Mrs. Maisie Boyle and Mrs. Ethel Rhodes who performs both the drunken
Madigan Jeanne and the incensed Mrs. Whitbread equally well. Mention cannot be made of all who contributed to a fine
cast. From the quality of the performances, it was evident that much hard work had been done. Although the Davidson
production of “Juno and the Paycock” was very impressive, here and there are recognizable rough spots, superficial to be sure,
but nevertheless marring parts of the hush of an otherwise fine play. The loud buzzing of equipment and other effects
loses its beauty; lighting and dimming are other misses. Charles Hodges’ fine set design does distract on occasion. These problems
are probably attributable to a student opening, and in future performances, I am sure that the polish will be smooth.

Outside Perspective
By LEX VEAZEY

Duke Considers Gas Co-Op
Associated Students of Duke University (ASDU) is considering a plan to provide cheap gasoline for Duke students by establishing a
gas co-op on campus. “The Durham gas stations are rip-offs,” Henry Beck, ASDU vice-president, said in an interview. The cost
of regular gas has risen as high as 36 cents per gallon. The Boyle family discusses the will with the
lawyer Bentham.

Cash’s ‘Gospel Road’ Crucified
A REVIEW
By STEVE BALKCOM

Clark Gable (“I want to see — The director Elfstrom plays a — “We could provide gas for as little
as 29.9 cents per gallon.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Here on die ol win “ha -_ and regular,” Beck said. Staff Writer June Carter smiled demurely; however, she does
not have a speaking part. The gas co-op would be a non-profit corporation. Last week I was part of the
hilarity of the World Premiere in Charlotte of Johnny Cash's film “The Gospel Road,” a documentary on the life of
Christ. Amid the clamoring throng, my friends and I waited for what turned out to be a full-fledged farce if
there ever was one. I admit I went as a joke, hoping to witness some of the hysteria associated with
those fanfares of the '30s, but what followed was beyond my wildest fantasy.

The marquee displayed a colossal Johnny Cash cut-out on the mountainside while a local high school band blurted the “Battle
Hymn of the Republic.” A chorus, appropriately robed in black, injected several gospel hymns at the appropriate intervals. Everyone was
anticipating the arrival of Cash and his coterie, which pulled up shortly with a police escort, the siren blaring—the whole
bit. After shaking hands, Cash mounted a makeshift platform and addressed the mob a la trom beneath her full-length swans
down a la Marlene Dietrich (“I vish you love”). Others who emerged from the limousine must have included Cash's sister,
the director Robert Elfstrom, and Cash's promotional manager. All had parts in the film—and why not?

Inside, the president of Gardner-Webb, which sponsored the gala affair, preached a sermon. It seems he and Cash were predestined
to present this film. Cash addressed the audience again, berating Hollywood for “all the filth it’s been turning out” and
remarking how proud he was of “that ‘G’ on the sign outside.” At last, the moment that all had awaited
arrived. The words “Gospel Road” flashed across the screen. Cash, the narrator, had the only speaking part with one notable
exception. There was very little acting expected in this homemade production, shot on location in Israel. The scenery in the
latter may be the one redeeming artistic quality to be found.

The notable exception to Cash is June Carter, who as Mary Magdalene is an embarrassment. She is allowed to belt
out one song, “Follow Me,” in contrast to 20 or so delivered by her husband. The technical assistants must have
been imported from Nashville, for surely Miss Carter's make-up and the remnants of a bouffant could not have been inspired
from Biblical passages. The extras complete the atmosphere, the men with their sideburns and duck tails and the women with
their gum and beehives. I left before the grand finale because I thought surely I knew how it would end.
However, my friends reported a grisly scene when Elfstrom was nailed indiscreetly to a cross. Blood was not spared if
everything else (including taste) was. Perhaps Cash was cashing in on Peckinpah’s technique...in that case, go see “The Getaway” instead.

The co-op would be a subsidiary of ASDU. Whatever money ASDU would make from the co-op would go to the
Student Academic Loan Fund. Establishment of the co-op would require a $10,000 initial investment by ASDU in its ‘73-74 budget.
Beck said, “The co-op would quickly return the $10,000 to students through cheaper gas and more financial aid.”

New Meal Plans Adopted

The University of Montana recently adopted a combination of optional meal plans for the current academic year. The optional plans
were recommended by a student-administrative committee assigned to investigate possible variations on the 20-meal plan previously offered. The new food
service options, available to all students residing in the residence halls on campus, include: (1) a 20-meal plan which includes
all meals except the Sunday evening meal, (2) a 15-meal plan which includes breakfast, lunch, and dinner (Monday through Friday
only), and (3) a 10-meal plan which includes lunch and dinner (Monday through Friday only). The respective costs of the
three meal plans and double-room occupancy in residence halls during the fall quarter are $353.11 for the 20-meal plan, $327.50
for the 15-meal plan, and $307.16 for the 10-meal plan.
