The Davidsonian
October 5, 1973

By LEX VEAZEY

Students Wish To Evaluate Faculty

A recent survey at the University of Minnesota indicated that a majority of students would like to evaluate instructors' work before they are offered promotions or raises. Ninety-nine percent of the students polled felt that evaluating a faculty member’s teaching is very important when considering him for a raise or promotion. A majority of the students would prefer voting membership for students on evaluating committees.

Students also were asked what kind of job security the faculty should have. Fifty-three percent recommended limited job security, in the form of one or two-year contracts. Twenty-seven percent chose contracts of several years duration, and nine percent chose permanent job security with no firing except for cause.

Vermont Offers Special Interest Halls

The University of Vermont in Burlington has begun to offer special interest residence halls for its students. One hall is an environmental hall for those students interested in environmental concerns, regardless of their major or year in college. Another hall is the French Hall in which only French is spoken.

(Staff Photo by Goodman)
The Brothers of Phi Gamma Delta display their new house to self-selecting freshmen.

THE RUSH IS ON
Self-Selecting Freshmen Favor

within the hall. The purpose of these special interest halls is to “build first a feeling of community and then become a structure to facilitate interaction between students on both an academic and social development plane.” The residence hall staffs, solely control-personnel in the past, now act as counselors to establish new programs on halls.

Davidson Social Orientation

By LILLIAN GASCOIGNE
Asst. Managing Editor

This week marks the end of the first round of “Freshman Social Orientation '73-74.” Members of the various eating clubs held informal open houses during the past two weeks.

Greece, Rome ‘Come Alive’ For Spring Classics Students

By STEVE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Greek temples were not always pure white stone. Odysseus was not purely a fictional character. Lions never made meals of Christians in the Colosseum. These statements may or may not interest you. They concern aspects of ancient Greece and Rome that ‘come alive’ for selected Davidson students each year, through participation in the Spring Classics Seminar Abroad.

The program commences in Athens, Greece, where approximately one week is spent assimilating essentials of Greek art, literature, history, and culture. From here the group travels to several important sites, gaining an understanding of ancient Greek life through varied examples. After five weeks in Greece, the seminar moves to Italy for a gradual absorption of the totally different Roman culture. The major stops there are Naples, Rome, and Florence. Eventually the students reach Southern France for termination of the 10-week program.

The peculiarities of this academic venture make it a novelty for anyone familiar only with Davidson classes. The on-the-spot learning situation, coupled with the spontaneous variation of the day-to-day travel, works to stimulate a sensitive awareness of each foreign area observed, and a motivation to define its unique domain. The requirements for the three courses provide the student with a very comprehensive grasp of Greek and Roman cultures, but the modern setting and the course outlay encourage him to draw contemporary parallels.

Students are exposed to excellent travel opportunities during and after the program. Usually, a free-travel period is allotted to each student sometime early in the term. The nature of the course, as formulated by Classics Professor George Labban, encourages an assertion of independence by each student. One thus learns to live and communicate on an individual basis with foreign people in their own lands.

During the course of study, each student conducts a seminar on some aspect of the Greek and Roman worlds. Although the group is utilized as an effective means for general discussion and interchange, individual criticism and assessment of art and literature is reinforced as the most direct method for learning.

The course does not profess to cover all characteristics of these ancient peoples, but it does help to define their basic concepts and provide a core of understanding from which the interested student may expand his knowledge. It is open primarily for students not concentrating on Classical studies at Davidson. Every year many potential applicants fail to take notice of the opportunities offered by the program. Besides providing an excellent temporary alternative to Davidson, it exposes one to the strange, but elegant symmetry of the Greeks and the proficient splendor of the Romans.of Rome. Instruction is top-notch; Labban has handled the seminar four straight years and is well-versed in efficient foreign travel. As a professor, he incites students to work and reap the benefits of this extraordinary heritage of ours. The rewards accruing from this type of experience are long-standing, if not intangible in significance for the student.

Weeks to introduce freshmen to the Patterson Court social system. Most freshmen felt that the members of the individual houses made real efforts to make the class of '77 feel wanted and needed. The freshmen responded to this spirit by turning out in large numbers. Dean of Students Will Terry feels that the self-selection system is working well. “I think that students appreciate the kind of flexibility that it gives them, and yet at the same time gives them a sense of belonging to a place. They appreciate the fluidness of the system that allows them to change their minds,” he said. “The system proves itself by its fluctuation,” Terry commented. “When an eating club goes down in size, the members work harder to rebuild their membership which makes an even balance.” “For instance, the PIKA’s one year had only three freshmen sign up, and the next year, there were 50,” Terry explained.

YMCA Depot Generates
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Staff Writer

The Davidson YM/YWCA is perhaps the greatest vehicle of Christian outreach to the Davidson Community. Last year over 200 students participated in its ministry. This year, with expanded facilities, more people will be involved than ever before. The most notable and exciting addition is that of a new recreational center, the renovated depot. Although the Depot was used some last spring, this year is its first with detailed plans for an entire year. Director of the Depot, Mark Deaton, sums up the new excitement: “Davidson's Y has not yet been able to serve through the Depot. This year we have definite plans, but are still open for suggestions.” However, money is needed. A $5000 debt was created by the renovation of the depot. This year, a contribution of $8, instead of the customary $5, was asked of each student. According to YMCA president, going very poorly. If we don’t get money, we may have to scrap many ideas,” he reported.

Some of the activities planned for the Depot are the Whistle-Stop programs which teach children of the community arts and crafts and games. “We plan to have a Junior Olympics later,” said Deaton. “We also plan weekend athletics, movies, dances, and coffee houses during the year.” A number of the YM/YWCA-sponsored trips are planned. One such trip for children is to Williamsburg. Another proposed trip is for some of the Davidson students involved with the Y. Rev. Rush Otey, an advisor for the organization, suggested that this trip might be to Washington.

Steve Canterbury, president of ATO remarked, “I think this system is the best possible. Everyone is working together to make it successful, and the freshmen seem to be responding to it quite well.” Whereas many freshmen seemed impressed by Emanon and ATO, houses which they felt recognized and encouraged individuality, others cited the casual, relaxed atmosphere of the SAE house as having great appeal. “The Phi Delts were as graphic in explaining the merits of their intramural successes as the PIKA’s were in describing the quality of their food,” one freshman observed. “I’m impressed with what you get for your money at the KA house,” another mentioned. Many freshmen indicated that Random House, with no social fee, held a special financial appeal for them. “I will guarantee you that I'll be eating with Slater again next year,” another decided.

Excitement added. “The Church of the Pilgrims, located in Washington, is presenting a seminar on Christianity Today that the students might be interested in,” he said. Many new programs are planned for this year, making 1973-74 the biggest year in the Davidson YM/YWCA history. “We are having no trouble figuring out how to spend money,” said Connette. Another planned program for this year is “Adopt-A-Granny,” headed by Barbara Brothers and Brad Tipler. The program seeks to create one-to-one relationships between students and elderly town citizens from which both will benefit. “Although most of the YM/YWCA sponsored activities are for the community as far as recreation is concerned, the students of Davidson are allowed the opportunity to minister to their community. This is the main service the Y performs for the college,” said Otey.