age SIN March 30, 1973

“She Bavideonian Kelton + By, BOB HOWELL

In a remark, Managing Editor one “mien 1” said, “Essentially, it means that unless the faculty of the Honors College could become separate from the much larger college, which presently seems infeasible, there would no longer be an Honors College,” said Professor of Psychology John Kelton, chairman of the faculty committee which evaluated the Honors College and recommended its dissolution.

The report of the Committee for Evaluation of the Honors College recommended its dissolution. The college faculty accepted the report. The regular faculty will integrate the program with the regular curriculum of the college. However, the new plan encourages the development of honors-level work within all existing departments, utilizing the resources of all departments.

Kelton suspects that most of the faculty favors some major changes in the implementation of the Honors College concept but noted that there was clearly a desire for alternative proposals of revision. The recommendations presented by Kelton’s committee were referred by the faculty to the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) for further study. 

“We’ve learned some good things and explored some worthwhile options,” he said. “And I think we can keep the important ones.”

Recommendations for Revision:

1) Rename the executive post within the present Honors College the “Director for the Center for Honors Studies.” He will encourage the development of honors-level work throughout the college and continue to teach half-time.

2) Rename the present Honors College building the “Center for Honors Studies.” The building will house the office of the Director and serve as the basic facility for activities involving honors students.

3) Establish a “Council of Honors Studies,” composed of the Director, departmental chairmen, and the vice president for academic affairs, to encourage honors-level work in all departments. Each department will be responsible for planning and conducting its own departmental honors studies; the Council will be responsible for approving interdisciplinary honors majors.

4) Individual departments will be responsible for providing teaching personnel for honors-level work. The supervision of five or more honors students will be considered the equivalent of teaching one course.

5) Honors work will be primarily for juniors and seniors. They will be expected to meet normal graduation requirements and will be graded under the same system used for other academic work in the college.Seniors now in the Honors College will proceed largely in accordance with present arrangements; others will be expected to choose a major and may seek admission to honors studies under the program hereby recommended.
--Report of the Committee for Evaluation of the Honors College

A DISTINCTIVE FEATURE
Honors Format
Students gather for a symposium sponsored by the Honors College.

Bevan Expresses Skepticism About Committee's Proposals
By TOM BRUCE
Associate Editor

According to Vice President for Academic Affairs John Bevan, the recommendations of the committee for the Honors College, accepted as perhaps September, are somewhat controversial. Bevan expressed skepticism about the committee's proposals, stating that while the report was favorable toward the Honors College concept, the recommendations were contradictory. He emphasized that the committee's summary of strengths and weaknesses in the Honors program was overwhelmingly sympathetic to the Honors College.

Bevan noted that the Honors College is providing an opportunity to pursue interdisciplinary studies, to enter into association with faculty members, and to plan an academic program of superior quality. "You are stating something very significant, not to be dismissed lightly," he said.

In Bevan's opinion, most of the strengths of the Honors College stem from the program itself. The weaknesses were primarily administrative, involving finances and credit disputes. These weaknesses are also typical but none of them were conforming to members of the Honors College. They can probably be perfected as the program matures. Though these are insufficient to warrant discarding the concept of the Honors College, he said.

At the March meeting at which the Evaluation Committee issued its report on the Honors College, Bevan presented a defense of the Honors College. He took exception to a number of the conclusions represented in the report, originating from inside and outside of the committee. "To think that many contributors regard departmental honors programs as being rather firmly established, since they have been around for years in some cases," he commented.

Bevan also addressed a statement made by an administrator of the Development Office that other programs, e.g., Departmental Honors, are more "saleable" at the present time. He stated that he had not been aware of criticism of the Honors College as mentioned repeatedly in the committee's report.

Bevan pointed out that the response to the committee's questionnaire by Honors College students was not really sufficient for validity. "The committee acknowledged this factor in the report," Bevan said, "but it went ahead and made generalizations from the data anyway."

The committee also "made some comments that were pointedly subjective," in Bevan’s view. For instance, the report states, "The opportunity that the Honors College has had to present symposia, lectures, and discussions open to the student body has been used infrequently and, on the whole, not very effectively." Reacting to this, Bevan asked, "Not effectively relative to what? Audience size or participation?"

Bevan was also skeptical of the report's tendency to project the concept of the Honors College on the larger college community. "There is not sufficient evidence to show that the whole college is ready to become an Honors College, or that most work being done currently in the Honors College can be undertaken within the regular College," he said.