Eight October 5, 1973

The Davidsonian

Cats Host Powerful E.C.U. Tomorrow

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Still searching for offensive consistency, the Davidson Wildcats return for their final home appearance of the 1973 football season to challenge the East Carolina Pirates. The Homecoming highlight is scheduled to begin at 2 p.m. tomorrow afternoon.

Coming off a disappointing loss to the Appalachian Mountaineers last week, the Cats will be looking to generate some of the offensive prowess they displayed in their upset victory over the Lenoir Rhyne Bears two weeks ago.

“Up to now, our defense has really been great,” commented head coach Dave Fagg last week. “The offense has just made too many mistakes and the defense has done a superb job under pressure.”

The scores of the Cat losses are indeed deceptive as to the quality that defensive coordinator Bob Mosketti's alignment has done. The most notable asset the defenders have sported thus far has been their ability to stop the opposition’s ground game. This will be a key factor in tomorrow’s contest as the Pirates possess one of the Southern Conference’s most powerful rushing attacks.

Led by quarterback Carl Sommerall, the Pirates have a three-game winning streak coming into the SC contest. Their only loss came in the season opener against ACC powerhouse N.C. State. Sommerall provides a dual punch as he runs and passes with equally balanced ability. Alongside Sommerall in the Pirate backfield are tailback Kenny Strayhorn and...

---

Athletics: Return To Reality

There comes a time when one has to make a distinction between idealism and reality. With regard to intercollegiate athletics at Davidson, this statement holds much credibility.

The present situation at Davidson is relatively idealistic. The prevailing idea is that it is a credit to the college that we are the smallest institution playing major college football. Hang the old won-lost records, but we play major college football. And a direct consequence of playing major college football is forcing the other sports to compete in the NCAA.

Now, as far as basketball is concerned, the college’s position is realistic. For we can compete, and compete very well, against opposition in this field. But the “minor” sports, such as baseball, soccer, tennis, wrestling, and the like, are hard-pressed to compete on a winning status against major college competition.

There is one reason for the predicament: MONEY. The college simply lacks the financial resources to fund an athletic program which can compete effectively on the major college level.

Tennis is a prime example of the situation. After winning the Southern Conference title last season, many must have wondered why the Cat netters did not participate in the post-season NCAA tournament. The reason is simply that the competition would have been too strong, for most of the teams would have had six or more scholarship players. Besides, the team lacked the financial resources to justify their going to such a tourney. Appalachian now has nine tennis players getting some scholarship aid. Furman has two and one-half grants for their program, while William and Mary has about two. East Carolina is moving up in this respect also.

So it is coming to the point where Davidson is going to have to make a decision. The college can either put the money into the sports program to justify keeping it, or it can take the necessary steps to revamp the total program so that teams can compete effectively within the present financial resources.

In this day and age, it is simply too idealistic to think that being the smallest college competing in major college athletics justifies the efforts athletes put into their respective sports only to face competition that is far beyond them. What the solution to this impending problem is, I do not claim to know. But it seems time to return to the world of reality with regards to athletics at Davidson. If we cannot get the money or design a different median between academics and athletics so that we can either recruit effectively or get into another national athletic division, then perhaps there is no room for athletics at Davidson. And that, to me, seems a sad conclusion to reach, no matter how real it may be.

GORDONFullback Don Schink. This trio represents what the Pirates call their “Triple-S” offense. Strayhorn has replaced the injury-prone Carlester Crumpler in the Pirate running attack. He has performed with great ability in the first four Pirate contests. Schink has the power to grind out the tough short yardage up the middle. Crumpler rushed for 118 yards in the first half against State. He missed the second half due to an injury. If Crumpler is healthy for the Cat-Pirate contest, the Davidson defense could well be in for its toughest workout of the season. The Pirates are probably the strongest team that the Cats have faced this year, with the possible exception of Richmond. Those two teams are the major contenders for the conference crown this season, although William and Mary will not be far behind.

Fagg is looking for some way to develop the offensive consistency that he feels is essential to the future success of the Cats this year. “East Carolina has a very strong team,” Fagg acknowledged. “We are going to have to do some improving in order to compete with them.”

HAULING IT IN
Split end Gary Pomeroy grabs one of David Harper’s passes against Appalachian last week. It was in vain, however, as the Cats fell 23-8 to the Apps.

Appalachian Mauls Gridders As Offense Continues To Stall
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

The football team lost its second conference game last Saturday to Appalachian by a score of 24-8. Although the score was rather lopsided, the Cats played well and were upset by too many small mistakes. The Mountaineers scored first with 2:16 left in the first quarter. The score capped a 57-yard drive, the first prolonged series of downs in the game. The Mountaineer’s next score came two and a half minutes later when a Harper pass was intercepted and returned 20 yards for the score. The first half scoring was closed out with a 52-yard pass to make it 21-0 at the half. Appalachian added a field goal early in the fourth quarter and the Cats finally managed to get on the board with 52 seconds remaining in the game. Davidson's score was set up by a screen pass from Mike Hall to Dave Ingold which was good down to the Appalachian one-yard line. Ingold carried the ball on the next play.

“It was just a tough game to lose,” said head coach Dave Fagg. “I think it was a lot closer than the score indicated and we all felt that we were the best team out there,” Fagg continued. Statistically, Fagg’s assertions were true. The Cats had 87 yards rushing to 99 for the Mountaineers. Dave Ingold and Larry Hardaway led the Davidson running game with 23 and 38 yards respectively. “I thought Ingold looked good in there after missing last week's game with a severe hip pointer,” Fagg said. Davidson led in passing with 118 versus 91 for Appalachian. The game would have been closer if the Cat receivers had not been plagued with bad hands. Fagg estimated that at least eight good passes were dropped by the receivers.

“The defense played well; they were just out on the field too long,” Fagg commented. The Cats managed to hold Appalachian to 99 yards in 46 carries. This is an unusually low total for a team which uses a Wishbone formation. “We worked at containing their quarterback last week and the defense did a good job Saturday,” said Fagg. The Cats will also have to work on their defensive secondary. Mountaineer split end David Gates took a pass all alone on the 25-yard line and lumbered in for a 52-yard scoring play last week. The win was the Mountaineer’s first ever in the Southern Conference. Appalachian’s record now stands at 1-3 to match the Cat’s overall record. Davidson has an 0-2 in the conference.

HODSON HALL
Sat. ONLY; Oct. 6
4, 10 & 12:30
Adm. $1.00
Door Prize at Each Show

D.C. Pop Films Presents
Camelot
Rated G

Bashfuls Ltd. proudly announces an October showing of paintings by Irvin Riley, a very talented black artist from Winston-Salem. His work will be on display through October 31.
Bashfuls Ltd
Upstairs
115 North Main St.
Davidson, N.C.
Gallery Hours: 9:30 - 5:30