RETURNING TO DAVIDSON

Ronnie Stelzer now plays for Athletes In Action.

Stelzer Meets Cats In Tuesday Reunion

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Ron Stelzer is returning home again. Two years ago, the Fort Wayne, Indiana native left Davidson College with a major in Political Science and a high academic average for his four years. Since then, Stelzer has been playing basketball with the Athletes in Action, part of the Athletic Ministry of the Campus Crusade for Christ. Stelzer and the Athletes in Action face Davidson in an exhibition game Tuesday night in Johnston Gym.

A 6-0, 170-pound guard, Stelzer is currently in the starting lineup for the Athletes. He is averaging 6.5 points per game and has played in all 22 contests. At Davidson, Stelzer was noted for his driving ability. Head Coach Terry Holland compared him to former Davidson standout Barry Teague, prior to Stelzer’s senior campaign. During his junior year, Stelzer broke his foot in the second game of the season. This injury never fully healed at Davidson. It cost him much of his playing time. In his sophomore year, Stelzer hit a torrid 70.6 percent from the field while playing in 21 games. His strong suit, determination, and ability to drive the basket, along with his quickness on the floor, were notable. He started some during his junior year, but the foot injury hampered his playing chances.

Since graduation, Stelzer attended seminary in St. Louis. While playing there, he averaged just over 20 points per game and was Most Valuable Player in the River Forest Tournament. Stelzer won the award for the Varsity Athlete of the Year during his studies at Concordia. In 1971-72, he was named to the Outstanding Athletes of American Colleges and Universities. He attended high school at Concordia in Fort Wayne. Among the honors he reaped there were selections to the All-City and All-Conference teams. For his three-year high school career, he averaged 18 points per game. This led to his signing by Lefty Driesell at Davidson. During his freshman year here, he played in 15 games and shot an even 50 percent from the floor. His excellent point play was complimented by his 75 percent free throw shooting.

Stelzer will be the point guard for Greg Berry’s AIA squad when they face Davidson in Johnston Gym. He will be out to give the Cats a tough time. It will be a homecoming and Stelzer should definitely be up for it.

The Davidsonian
February 16, 1973
Page Eleven

Crusading Athletes In Action Face Cagers In Tuesday Tilt

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Sporting many new players as opposed to last year’s squad, the Athletes in Action eastern basketball team will invade Johnston Gym next week to do battle with the Wildcats in an exhibition contest. Featured on the team will be former Davidson Wildcat guard Ron Stelzer. One of the new Athletes is 6-0 guard Jimmy Blacklock from the University of Texas. Blacklock provides the offensive potency with a 15.6 scoring average. He captained the Southeastern Conference champion Longhorns. The AIA had a good recruiting year. Besides Blacklock, they have acquired 6-10 Dave Schneider from Wayne State. He was also drafted by the NBA’s Cleveland Cavaliers and is scoring at a 14.0 clip. He also paces the rebounding, getting 9.4 per contest. Helping Blacklock in the backcourt is an experienced guard, Stelzer. He played on some of the nationally ranked teams here, graduating in 1971. Filling in the remaining frontcourt spots will be Clarence Brookins, Bill Hull, and Calvin Anderson. Brookins is from Philadelphia and played...College basket at Temple University. The 6-4 forward carries a 13.6 scoring average, as well as a 7.2 rebounding mark, into the contest. Coming from Valley State College, Anderson is small for a front court man. At 6-4, he will give up some height to the Wildcats, but could be trouble with a 13.6 average. He is also pulling down slightly over seven rebounds per game.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7 — Wed 9-12 — Sun 9:30-10:30
Phone 892-0208
131 N Main St, Davidson, N.C.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

REGAL NOTES
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS, AND POEMS FASTER WITH OUR NOTES
We're new and we're the biggest! Thousands of topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our subjects include not only English, but Anthropology, Art, Black Studies, Ecology, Economics, Education, History, Political Science, Psychology, Religion, Science, Sociology, and Urban Problems. Send $2 for your catalog of topics.
REGAL NOTES
3160 "O" Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20007
Telephone: 202-333-0201
Law, Music, Philosophy.

ARMY—NAVY STORE
Whatever you want, we've got
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment - Bell Bottom Jeans
170 N. Main, Mooresville, N.C.

Hull is one of the few returning veterans for the AIA club. A graduate of perennial power Oral Roberts University, he presently is averaging nearly 11 points per contest. The 6-6 forward held the school record for the highest average, 22.2 points per game.

Greg Berry, the head coach of the Eastern team, will play a patterned and deliberate offense. He feels this disciplined style of play is necessary against the types of teams his squad will be facing in their remaining games. For the season, the AIA has compiled an 8-15 record. They have only played two common opponents with the Wildcats, those being N.C. State and East Carolina. Both schools dropped decisions to the undefeated Wolfpack, which went over the century mark in scoring against each team. While the Cats beat the Pirates twice, the Athletes dropped an 85-84 overtime thriller.

Statistically, the Wildcats would have to be favored, but not by much. Defensively, the Cats have been allowing opponents to score 80.0 points per game. The Athletes are presently averaging 84.0. Head Coach Terry Holland will have to rely on the inside play of Larry Horowitz, who has been the highlight of the past few Davidson games. The sophomore forward scored a season-high 31 points against Furman and leads the team in both rebounding and field goal accuracy. Junior guard John Falcon still leads the scoring race as he has consistently been around his average output of 16.1. Greg Dunn follows Falcon with 14.5. Junior forward T. Jay Pecorak rounds out the double-figure scorers for the Cats at 11.2. He and Dunn also contribute heavily to the Cat board game.

Juggle the books. Set fire to the factory:
STARTS FRIDAY FEB. 16th
Written by STEVE SHAGAN
in COLOR
Supply women for the clients. Harry Stoner will do anything to get one more season. Jack Lemmon in his most important dramatic role since “The Days of Wine and Roses.”
PARAMOUNT PICTURES CORPORATION and FILMWAYS, INC. present JACK LEMMON in A MARTIN RANSOHOFF Production
co-starring JACK GILFORD and introducing LAURIE HEINEMAN
Executive Producer EDWARD S. FELDMAN
Produced by STEVE SHAGAN
Directed by JOHN G. AVILDSEN
Music by MARVIN HAMLISCH
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE
VILLAGE THEATRE — FREEDOM DRIVE — CHARLOTTE, N.C.