Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

CROSS EXAMINATION (Staff photo by Goodman) Student examines Whitehead show on exhibit this week in Stowe Gallery.

Whitehead Paints Innocently With Inadequate Technique

A REVIEW By ROGER MANLEY Staff Writer

Timothy Whitehead’s current show in Stowe Galleries, "Angels and Other Creatures," is a fine example of virtually complete failure (and "virtually" is here used mercifully). His own special brand of kitsch is, so he says, derived from "a lifelong love affair with Celtic mysticism," and it is a very dull affair indeed. It certainly has yet to reach consummation in his art. Rarely does one have a chance to witness so many inabilities displayed so nakedly as in Whitehead’s show. The paintings show little regard for the tactile qualities of paint, or for the color qualities. There is little, if any, use of form. Thankfully, most of the works are small or downright diminutive (one is painted on a chip of wood). And though theoretically this would give him the advantage of a more manageable space, even the smallest are microcosms of mess.

Celtic mysticism is raked over the painterly coals of cute handling in little pictures of kings, heroes, angels, etc. that stand either flatly against flat backgrounds or embarrassedly in badly drawn boats. Like Ben Shahn, Whitehead resorts to words in some of his larger paintings, relying on the beauty of the lettering rather than the message (which, translated, appears beside the paintings) for the full richness of the surface. Whitehead may well work with the joyous innocence of a child, but his innocence is more the ignorance of truth than of freedom from dishonesty, and the truth is, he has not yet learned to paint well.

The Davidsonian December 21, 1973

REVIEW Grateful Dead Hits Peak With ‘Flood’

By WILL ROBERTSON Staff Writer

Several years ago The Grateful Dead added a heavy dose of country flavor to their sound. Since then, they have recorded more good albums than any other American band. "Wake of the Flood" continues in the direction of the last two studio albums, a bouncy country style with precise guitar performances and excellent vocal harmony. There are refinements and innovations, with no loss of vitality.

"Mississippi Half-Step Uptown Toodeloo" is the ponderous title of the first song. The album’s first little surprise is the violin in this song. The lead vocal is by Jerry Garcia with the usual excellent backing vocals. Garcia uses his guitar in short, precise bursts as in the past. He has progressed to the point of being one of rock's finest guitarists.

"Let Me Sing Your Blues Away" reveals the big surprise: the Dead’s first use of a horn section. The horn arrangements are creative and tasteful. "Row Jimmy" is the kind of song the Dead do best. It is a long, slow song, paced by Phil Lesh’s very efficient bass lines and Bill Kreutzmann's precise drums. Each chorus is followed by a short Garcia guitar break. As always, Bob Weir is subtle, unobtrusive, and very effective on the second guitar.

"Stella Blue" is a slow, wistful tune sung by Garcia. It builds nicely to a strong finish dominated by steel guitar. The steel guitar has not been heard since "Workingman’s Dead" and the return is welcomed. In Part I, the guitars, organ, rhythm section, and steel all blend together beautifully with the vocals. Donna Godchaux leads the chorus, which has a certain gospel-like quality. Part II is livelier, with the horn section again employed. The horns fit in perfectly, although many would not have expected the Dead to employ them. Only a few bands, notably The Band and the Stones, have adapted horns to rock with such effectiveness. The lead vocal by...

---Bob Weir is not instantly impressive but proves to be emotionally effective. The song concludes with a jazz-influenced segment led by saxophones. It is hard to avoid superlatives in assessing "Wake of the Flood." It stands up very well; my appreciation of the album has increased with each successive listening. In my opinion, it shares with "Goat’s Head Soup" the status of best album of the year. The high-energy school of rock seems to be fading. It will not be dead as long as the Stones are producing at their current level, but the trend does seem to be in another direction. The softer, prettier music of the Grateful Dead may in several years have even more devotees than now. Productions like "Wake of the Flood" will inspire new "Dead Heads" every day.

Reel to Reel Reviews

Most colleges and universities across the country have begun adopting certain energy conservation measures in the past several weeks. On many campuses, thermostats in dormitories and classrooms have been lowered, and lighting has been reduced inside and outside buildings. Although college and university administrators say they hope further steps to curb fuel consumption this winter will not be necessary, they are not ruling out such emergency measures as the following: longer scheduled, as well as unscheduled, vacations, a shift of evening classes to daytime, a four-day week, and enforced building hours. "We're going to hew a hard line and meet whatever fuel rationing we have to meet—whatever the President said—10 to 17 percent. We will not be put into a position to close," said Thomas Shepherd, superintendent of utilities at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. M.I.T. has even organized a course with academic credit for the January independent activities period to help with the fuel shortage. Students will roam the campus to search out additional ways to conserve energy.

"The Way We Were"

For much of its running time, Sydney Pollack’s "The Way We Were" is a bright, cheerful movie. Pollack does not know how to direct, but what he does instead is usually fluid, energetic, and fast-paced. His splashy movie-making catches a viewer's attention from the beginning, but the effect of this type of direction tends to wear itself out quickly. Something else is needed if the movie is to be a success. Arthur Laurents’ vacuous screenplay works against the movie rather than for it. The writer has left out all the important details. His characters seem more like manipulations than fully realized human beings. Katy (Streisand) confronts her husband Hubel (Redford) with his unfaithfulness. She asks what has gone wrong with their marriage. Actually, the film is so poorly written that there was never anything remotely resembling a marriage between these two. But the screenplay has decreed marital problems exist, and the director supplies a montage to indicate these problems. However, he supplies only flimsy reasons for the incompatibility of the two, and he fails to develop even these. If this movie is to be salvaged, two first-rate actors are needed in the roles of Hubel and Katy. Robert Redford and Barbara Streisand partially fill the need. Redford is charming except during some serious scenes where his face is a mask. Unfortunately, Streisand’s performance here is her worst ever. Her grimaces are reminiscent of some work by Raquel Welch. There are only a few of the moments of voluptuous, luminescent beauty that are Streisand’s main assets as a performer. Still, the stars build up empathy during their two hours before us, and many sections of the movie are saved. In the last and best scene, when Streisand and Redford move across a street towards one another, they give the impression of a god and goddess gliding across the screen. "The Way We Were" is currently playing at Southpark Cinema.

By JOE MCMILLAN