Six October 5, 1973

The Davidsonian

Logan Interpretations Explore Galvanized Steel Sculptures

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Asst. Features Editor

There is something vaguely disconcerting about Juan Logan’s display of sculpture and drawings at the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. I
have visited the show several times both in the daylight and night, and each time have gone away feeling a
bit unsettled. In the light of the nature of the works, such a reaction deserves some further analysis.

Certainly, the genre within which Logan works is not normally calculated to cause distress. The sculpture is technically nonfigurative, achieving
its effects by the counterposition of elements of plane. Volume is the most striking, while the use of color is
rather subtle, sometimes ranging only from an aluminum to a pale metallic blue, and at most from a steel gray
to black. The medium employed is structural steel material, a borrowing from modern industrial construction techniques.

The drawings are representational, simple monochromatic linear interpretations of face and profile, occasionally balancing line and form with heavy masses
of colored area. Unlike the sculptures, the drawings show motifs which are representative of the experience of the Black man
in America. The tone of the drawings, however, seems to be elegiac and does not reiterate the strain of didacticism
or neo-African nostalgia that tends to manifest itself in the work of many Black artists.

There would appear to be little in such works to elicit any feelings of uneasiness, until one begins to look
at the individual works. Certainly, each piece, drawing or sculpture, is skillfully and ingeniously constructed. The art of the craftsman
is unassailable. But soon it becomes apparent that several of the sculptures lack a quality of coherence. To be sure,
the greater portion of Logan's sculptural pieces are skillful weddings of form and medium which exhibit a purposeful consistency, where
each nuance of structure reinforces the statement of the whole work. Several pieces of the sculpture, however, completely lack this
intangible feeling.

Such criticism may seem invalid since it is based upon an ill-defined concept of “Coherency,” but without recognizing such a
quality it is impossible to distinguish between art and mere formal exercises in a medium. Similarly, only by this is
it possible to explain the difference between verse which is poetry, and that which is mere verse. Many of the
Logan drawings on this account are not poetry. They are exercises in which the pen has been allowed to wander,
only making certain of the ending rhyme words.

Logan explores galvanized steel sculptural medium.

Allman Brothers Regain Form

By WILL ROBERTSON
Staff Writer

A band’s loss of an important musician can have varying effects. The Rolling Stones lost Brian Jones, but continued to
be as successful as before. On the other hand, the Doors never produced much after losing Jim Morrison.

When the tragic death of Duane Allman was followed by that of Berry Oakley, it appeared that the Allman Brothers
Band was destined to follow the latter example. The band’s performances were mediocre, Gregg Allman was having serious personal problems,
and Dickie Betts...

“Deep Throat”

In one of the greatest acts of passing-the-buck in its history, the Supreme Court last June ruled that local courts
had the right to judge the moral value of a movie, and that these courts were within their constitutional rights
to ban any movies deemed obscene. Not only did these judges further cloud the issue of obscenity, they also assured
the success of movies like the one being shown at the Venus Cinema in Charlotte, “Deep Throat.”

There is no doubt that the movie itself is patently obscene. The “stars,” Linda Lovelace and Harry Reems, perform with
matchless enthusiasm, but lamentable talent. Acts of fellatio and cunnilingus are graphically portrayed ad nauseum, as the heroine seeks clitoral
stimulation in the area of her esophagus. Aside from the anatomical absurdities, the movie fails because it is little more
than a stag film made in slightly washed-out color. The sound is inaudible and out of sync, and the film
itself has the classic grainy texture of a stag flick. The sole reason for its notoriety is that local officials
have deemed it so obscene that they would not allow people the luxury of not paying to see it.

Clearly, “Deep Throat” is a disgusting, obscene piece of trash that has no right making the money it has been
for producers Lou Perry and Gerry Gerard. It should be destined for a short run in Charlotte. Unfortunately, this will
occur not through public opinion, but through judicial fiat.

“Let The Good Times Roll”

On a happier note, a celebration is going on at the Park Terrace Theater. “Let the Good Times Roll,” starring
Bo Diddley, the Shirelles, Danny and the Juniors, and the incomparable Chuck Berry, is a joyous movie celebrating the music
of the late 50’s and early 60's. The music of Chubby Checker and others is spiced with clips of how
these performers looked in their earlier careers. Clips of Elvis in the army, the ducktail, hula hoops, etc. are thrown
in as a bonus. Two highlights are the performance of Little Richard (who steals the show) and the on-stage musical
battle between Bo Diddley and...Chuck Berry. This movie is a must for those who want to recapture some of the
sheer joy of rock 'n roll.

“Bang the Drum Slowly”

“Bang the Drum Slowly” is not as bad as most of the films Hollywood likes to send around. The director,
John Hancock, actually seems to have some knowledge of movie making. He places his camera at reasonable distances from the
action, edits at a decent pace, and uses slow motion with some direction. His scene shifts are accompanied by shifts
in texture which makes this film less monotonous than most. In temperament and style, Hancock makes me think of what
Eric Rohmer would be like if he wasn't any good, if he lacked talent and imagination. It is reported that
Hancock had his actors practice baseball for an hour or two before each day’s shooting. He did well in this,
for playing baseball is one of the few things they do convincingly.

“Bang the Drum Slowly” is carefully cast and the performers carefully observed. Anne Wedgeworth, whom I enjoyed in “Scarecrow,” attempts
a serious performance here and is tastefully wasted. Robert De Niro’s part is built upon observations that seem real enough,
but he is not the actor who can do anything with them. Only Michael Moriarity hits the right tone for
the film. This movie is about a baseball player (De Niro) who knows he is dying, and his roommate (Moriarity)
who helps him through his last months. With such a plot, “Bang the Drum Slowly” is in danger of becoming
weepy and sanctimonious. Only a high level of human understanding could stave off these tendencies. Hancock is stuck upon a
low level. (Now at the Janus Theaters in Greensboro; coming to Southpark Oct. 12.)

Reportedly wanted to leave the group. Recording efforts were stalled. The much-delayed album, “Brothers and Sisters,” shows that the Allman
Brothers Band is indeed alive and well. The band has made some personnel changes that affect their style, but this
excellent album should please old fans and neophytes as well. The first song, “Wasted Words” reveals the band’s subtle change
toward a lighter and bouncier sound. Where the guitars formerly dominated, one will now be more aware of the entire
band. “Jelly Jelly” is a fairly slow blues number that may be the best song on the album. “Ramblin’ Man”
is a well-written song in which Betts shows a notable degree of vocal facility. The song falls into an extended
Betts guitar lead that is reminiscent of “Blue Sky” on the last album. The end of the song has quite
a bit of cooking, and the liner notes say that Les Dudek plays one of the leads. This may be
so, but my ears hear at least two tracks of Betts guitar, which is significant only to sentimentalists—the Betts Duane
Allman combination could reproduce in concert what was on record. On “Come and Go Blues” and “Jelly Jelly,” the piano
of Chuck Leavell is dominant. Leavell is the most significant addition to the band, and is excellent on both rock
and blues piano. Allman’s vocal and organ work is excellent, as it is throughout the album. Betts plays some very
competent blues guitar, but the piano of Leavell really shines. Leavell is outstanding and asserts himself on every song. He
has in effect replaced the second guitar. “Southbound” is a spiritual rock number again characterized by extended Leavell and Betts
parts. “Jessica” is paired by Dudek’s acoustic guitar. A short Betts break is followed by an extended piano lead that
is a high point on the album. The seven-minute song concludes with an aggressive Betts break. While most Duane Allman
aficionados maintain that his creativity and feeling for the blues will never be matched, Betts’ work on this album indicates
that he is on or above Allman’s level in speed and execution. “Pony Boy” begins with Betts alone on acoustic
dobro in the primitive blues tradition. He is then joined by the rest of the band in this spirited and
pleasant tune. As the album fades out with a happy hambone by Butch Trucks and Dickie Betts, you cannot help
but be pleased. One just hopes that the next album does not come with the same inscription as the last
two: Dedicated to a Brother.

THE DAVIDSONIAN Receives First Class Rating

As has been done in the past, THE DAVIDSONIAN had its papers for the second half of the past academic
year judged by the Associated Collegiate Press (ACP) during the summer. The findings gave THE DAVIDSONIAN a first-class rating.

“I was pleased,” Managing Editor Alec Hoon stated. “THE DAVIDSONIAN did not receive an ‘All American’ rating as it has
often done in the past. We just missed this rating due to certain weaknesses in the Editorials and in photography.
However, by utilizing the ACP suggestions for improvements, we hope to regain the ‘All American’ rating this year.” THE DAVIDSONIAN
is now competing on a higher level than in the past and under newly revised, more stringent ACP guidelines. On
a brighter note, the paper compiled a total of 3320 points, which was higher than the score of most past
DAVIDSONIANS.
