Ten December 7, 1973

The Davidsonian

Holland, Duncan Discuss Coed Basketball Prospects

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Davidson has formed its first girl's basketball team this year under the coaching of Ann Holland and Joe Duncan. Holland, wife of varsity mentor Terry Holland, explained how she stepped into the role of head coach. “I heard that some of the girls wanted to form a team, but that no one would coach them, so I talked to Terry and said I'd do it.”

“I guess I was their last choice, but I felt that they needed a coach and Terry agreed to help so I took the job,” she said.

Junior Joe Duncan has agreed to become the team’s assistant coach. “Mrs. Holland and some of the basketball coaches asked me to take the job, so I said I'd do it,” Duncan said. Duncan played J.V. basketball for two years and started on last year’s team.

The team is using plays liberated from the Wildcat varsity so far. “I had Terry sit down the other day and explain the basic shuffle cut play that he uses, and that’s what we're learning right now,” Holland said. “I also read a book on basketball fundamentals that he wrote, and that’s really helped us a lot, particularly in the passing which is our weakest point right now,” she added.

Both Holland and Duncan are surprised at how fast the team has picked up things. “They aren’t inhibited at all, they really work out there and learn things a lot faster than I thought they would,” said Holland.

The team’s biggest problem so far has been getting the time to practice. The team presently practices one hour a night three days a week. Unfortunately, the practices have to be fitted between varsity and J.V. basketball practices, and intramural games. Regarding the intramural games Holland admitted that, “We have had a hard time running the guys out, especially the ones who just want to come down and shoot around.”

The team has six games scheduled presently. They are home and away series with UNC-C, Johnson C. Smith, and...

Wrestlers Lack Depth, Challenge Livingston

By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

The Davidson College wrestling team travelled to Chapel Hill last weekend to attend the North Carolina Collegiate Wrestling Tournament. Despite some fine individual efforts, the Cats failed to place anyone in the finals.

“Though we didn't go up there with full strength we still had some good matches,” commented wrestling coach Charles Parker. Parker specifically cited Bob Jacobs at 126 (the pound weight class), John Scandling at 142, sophomore Ralph Holloway at 157, and Jim Purcell at 190. These wrestlers all reached the semi-finals before being eliminated.

The tournament included all four-year colleges in the state of North Carolina. Some of the schools were UNC-CH and East Carolina. The Tar Heels appeared to be the best team competing in terms of successful wrestlers. The tournament was for individual wrestlers and therefore no team scores were kept.

When asked about the upcoming season Parker commented, “This season is pretty much of a question mark, I am not going to predict one way or the other.” He added that he felt that the team had excellent potential in spite of the questionable performance at Chapel Hill. For one reason or another not all of the Wildcat grapplers were able to make the trip. These...Wrestlers included. The team has been working out since mid-October. Practices are five to six days a week and last between an hour and an hour and a half. Practices consist of drills, endurance wrestling, and a daily one-mile run. The Wildcat grapplers have their first dual meet against Livingstone College tonight at 7 p.m. in Johnston Gym.

Sacred Heart. The first game against UNC-C will be played at Davidson sometime during the first week in January. “We have about 15 more teams who want to play us, but I’m afraid that right now they’re just too good for us,” Holland said. The team is also thinking about scheduling a scrimmage with the North Mecklenburg girls' team. The outstanding players according to the coaches are freshmen Dee Booth and Becca Stimson, and senior Katie Early. “Dee is 5’8” and is just unreal, Becca is a good little guard, and Katie can play the post very well,” said Holland. The team was given $1000 by the college and voted to spend the funds on traveling rather than uniforms.

By ANN BODE
Staff Writer

The Davidson rifle team could very well be a championship team this year. Although it was ranked at the bottom of the Southern Conference by the Rifle Committee, the team has already bettered its last year’s scores by more than 250 points. Fifteen members were chosen this year, out of 52 hopefuls. Of these 15, six are chosen to shoot in a match and the top five scores are counted. Captain Abel White of the ROTC department is the coach this year. He commented on the Southern Conference Committee's decision.

KEEP YOUR OPTIONS OPEN
ROTC provides a career option which you can keep open with a small investment of your time. It is not too late to sign up for the Winter Term.

DAVIDSON GROCERY
FOR ALL YOUR GROCERY NEEDS
Hours: 7-8 Weekdays and 1-6 Sundays
ONE BLOCK FROM THE COLLEGE

Exhibition
Original Graphics for collectors
Davidson College
Cunningham Fine Arts Center
Thursday, December 13
10 a.m. to 5 p.m.

(Staff photo by Goodman)

KITTEN KONNECT
Dick Myrick passes underneath to Billy McClean in the Wildkitten's 97-73 win over the Duke J.V.’s. The team, coached by Jim Larranaga, is currently 2-0 with the Duke victory.

Triggermen Look Impressive In Early Season Shootings
“I can’t envision Davidson being at the bottom, I think we will place at least second and possibly even first in the Southern Conference this year,” he said. The team also competes in the Western Carolina Conference. The teams to beat here are Clemson and Wake Forest. White feels that “it is very possible for us to win in the WCC.” The top eight shooters for the team this year are: Ross McClay, Pete Goodman, Ben Simms, Clark McChesney, Bob Anders, Bob Miles, Jim Fagan, and the only senior - Mary Turner. So far this year, the riflemen have had two matches. They lost to Wofford by a score of 1269 - 1229 (out of a possible 1500), and lost to Wake Forest 1303 - 1266. White was pleased with these matches in that everyone on the team got a (See WHITE, Page 11)

See Our Large Selection Of Rings
Reputation for 3 generations
Jewelers of trusted
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N.C.

PIEDMONT BANK & TRUST COMPANY
112 South Main Street
MEMBER FDIC