Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

FOUR
December 21, 1973

The Beer Case

The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board indicated that Davidson violations of North Carolina Law in regard to dispensing beer in the College Union result from the lack of possession of a license to sell beer and wine. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. maintains, however, that the college policy of permitting but not encouraging students to use alcohol would be violated if the College Union procured a license. He argues that the choice to drink is then decided by the institution rather than by the individual. Having a liquor license would not allow the College Union to decide whether or not the individual student drinks beer. The open bar concept, with inexpensive beer sold, would simply offer students a realistic choice as to whether they want to drink beer at any particular time.

The open bar in the Rathskeller with the contribution system intact has been a welcome addition to the College Union program. Students have had the chance to socialize with those who learn at Davidson over a couple of beers, cokes, or whatever the individual student wants to drink. Now that the Union has learned that its contribution system violates North Carolina law, the Union must either obtain a liquor license or not have an open bar where beer is sold. The Union cannot finance free beer. We encourage the Board of Trustees to allow the Union to seek a license to sell beer and wine at the Union bar. This policy would allow students to make the decision as to whether or not they want to drink beer. Allowing students to make this choice is not encouraging but permitting students to drink beer if they so desire. It is not a violation of college policy; it is consistent with present policy. Only by seeking a liquor license can the College truly give students this choice. We strongly recommend that the college do so.

A New Consciousness

One’s consciousness is like a stream, ever moving but never returning to the point of its existence a moment before. A year has gone by since THE DAVIDSONIAN assumed a degree of my consciousness (and in the process I a part of its). Its power, like some mythological force in non-ordinary reality, has left its mark, known and yet unexpressible. Now the trip is over, and while I can see the individual incidents along the way, the experience as a whole is but a blur, pleasurable and yet painful. I cannot have it all over again, nor would I if that were possible, for it is finished and yet never begun. Beyond these riddles there is little that can be said. It is like the power of Mescalito. A new consciousness must now confront THE DAVIDSONIAN. If it is strong enough it will dominate. And much that is good will result. That is not for me to know—for what lies ahead is beyond my understanding. The lizard with sewn-up eyes cannot reveal the future to me.
—Alec Hoon

Scooby-Dooby-Dough

Oil might be short these days and so might toilet paper, but in some sectors of the American community, money isn’t so short. According to a story which appeared last month in the Chicago Daily News, Frank Sinatra will receive $600,000 for two one-week appearances in Las Vegas during the coming year. That may seem like a lot of money at first glance, but after consideration, it seems like a lot more. The current population reports for 1970 disclosed that in that year, 25.5 million Americans were living below the official poverty level of $3,968 annual income for a family of four. That means that poverty-level Americans would have to work for 1.5 centuries to make what Frankie will make in two weeks, all-in-all an efficient allocation of capital resources. Only in America.
STEVE CANTERBURY

Mother Betts Tells Christmas Story

For as long as I can remember my mother Betts has told me the following Christmas story that has never grown old. Surprisingly, with no ulterior motive whatsoever, I'll tell it to you. If you understand it then you have that perception that every five-year-old has, that perception which is lost and finally regained with some maturity. Once there were twin boys. Their names...were Johnny and Jimmy. These youngsters looked exactly alike in every physical detail, but their attitudes were quite different. Johnny was always quite happy. No matter what happened, he played a Pollyanna “Glad Game.” If his parents gave him any sort of gift, he was content. Jimmy, however, was rarely happy. He played a “Grump Game.” His parents did all that they could to make him content, but he never was. No matter what they bought him, he found a fault and tossed it away.

One Christmas, the parents decided to try an experiment to see just how happy and unjealous Johnny was and how grumpy and possessive Jimmy was. They determined to buy Jimmy a new bicycle, an electric train and race-car set, a new sled, new sports equipment, and all sorts of other shiny new toys. They laid these carefully under Jimmy’s side of the tree. Under Johnny's side of the tree, they put horse manure—nothing more, nothing less.

The next morning, the boys awakened early. They rushed into the family room to see what Santa had left them. The parents sleepily arose from bed to see their sons’ reaction. Jimmy was sitting in the midst of his toys with his arms folded and a frown filling his face.

“What’s wrong?” his father asked.

“Santa never gets me what I want. I wanted a bigger bike, a longer race-car track, a blue sled instead of a red one, and a catcher’s mitt instead of a fielder’s glove.”

Johnny was sitting on the couch with a delighted expression on his face. He looked over to his mother, who was sitting on the other end of the couch, and said, “You know, Mama? Santa brought me a pony, but he got away.”

Davidson Ponders Santa’s Existence

You may not have been aware of it, but there’s been a lot of controversy on this campus about the existence of Santa Claus. (What do you expect this week? I’m trying to get some Christmas spirit!) The debate about Santa Claus is an emotional tempest. I, however, have the answer.

The pro-Santa group is not united, which leads to even more debate. They can't decide if Santa Claus lives at the North Pole or in some godforsaken place called Santa Claus’ workshop in the mountains of North Carolina. Santa Claus lives in Arkansas. Think about it—it makes sense. What other reason could there be for the existence of Arkansas? A lot of people don't believe in either Santa Claus or Arkansas. Well, Arkansas exists. At least it did last time I looked. Therefore, if Arkansas exists, Santa Claus must exist. Q.E.D. (The first math or philosophy turkey who tells me my logic is faulty will get ashes and switches for Christmas.)

It is true, however, that Santa Claus has traded in the sled for a red Cadillac Eldorado which gets 4 m.p.g. This change is due to the fact that a sleigh drawn by reindeer is no longer uncommon. A guy driving a car with that kind of gas mileage is really unusual.

I am surprised that this controversy could take place at Davidson. I remember perfectly the night last year that Santa Claus made an appearance in Johnston gym at half-time of a basketball game. He was surrounded by an army of kids and threw handfuls of candy into the stands. How soon we forget.

I found a letter to Santa Claus that somebody dropped on campus. It goes like this:

Dear Santa,

I would like the following things for Christmas:
1) An ‘A’ from Dr. Abernethy,
2) My first 3 choices in pre-registration for spring term,
3) An interpretation of James Joyce—from English to English,
4) A tape of Dr. Palmer and Dr. McKelway humming ‘Foxy Lady’ as background to Dr. Partin’s Catherine the Great lecture,
5) A cast-iron stomach—my ulcer is killing me,
6) A tape of Miles Ward telling it.

Are you still there? I've been trying to lose you ever since we started on this article. Oh well, I admire your persistence. All I'm asking for this Christmas is something to keep me warm this winter. I'll let you know what I get—probably a can of jalapeno peppers!

Merry Christmas everybody!

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters on any subject. Letters should be typed and should not exceed 300 words in length.