Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
OCTOBER 12, 1973

Keeping The Faith

Davidson College is finally reexamining its historic policies and beliefs about the Christian nature of this institution. Hopefully, out of the evaluation will come changes in the focus of this Christian Commitment to keep it more in tune with the community living here.

In past issues this year, THE DAVIDSONIAN has pointed out the need for everyone to work toward improving the community spirit of the college. We strongly feel that changes in the Christian Commitment policies are a good way to accomplish this. Regardless of one’s religious persuasions - which could range from confirmed atheist to devout Christian - the college's policies have a strong effect on one’s lifestyle and thinking. Student opinion is affected by the fact that he must take at least two religion courses before graduation, that the faculty on the surface is devoutly Christian, and that the governing trustees express a strongly Christian bias.

The problem is that often these indications of faith come across more strongly in words than in actions. Take, for example, the recent statement by Dean of Students Will Terry (himself an ordained minister), “There is more smallness, backbiting, mistrust, petty gossip, malicious rumor, and literal enmity (at Davidson) now than at any time in my eleven years of recent association here.” That is just one statement which reveals the depth of the problem. Unfortunately, the solution is more difficult to put into words.

For our part, we would like to see a continued expression of the Christian faith here. Such things as the revived Tuesday night service are a good way to accomplish this. However, we would also like to see the college expand to meet the challenges to Christianity more openly. As Religion Professor Alexander McKelway said, “The Christian man is not called to a life of pious isolation, but is both freed and challenged to participate in the world of men and ideas openly and fearlessly.” Therefore, why not open up the faculty to those who aren't Christians? There would be little to lose, and much to gain - for maybe they could stimulate everyone to really think about what their faith means. And maybe in the process, the problems Terry mentioned would disappear. And why not make religion courses voluntary so that students don’t feel that they are being forced into a religious faith or understanding?

Why ROTC?

ROTC at Davidson was founded over fifty years ago during a time of declared war. Since that time, it has remained on this campus and has secured a place within the academic curriculum. This merits reconsideration. Our reasons are twofold.

First, why exactly is academic credit granted for work done in the ROTC program during the junior and senior years? Much of ROTC instruction is of an academic nature (e.g., leadership principles, the conceptual methods of leadership and management, and military law), but much more of it is vocational rather than academic in nature (e.g., small unit tactics and communications, ground and air mobility, and advanced map reading). Yet after the sophomore year, academic credit is granted for all of it. Ostensibly, the purpose of ROTC is to supply the United States armed forces with trained officers. But does this lend itself to a liberal arts program? No one ever seems to ask this. ROTC has been at Davidson for so long that its place in the curriculum is accepted without question.

Secondly, we wish to point out the seeming inconsistency of military preparation being included in the program of a college that professes a Christian commitment. Found in the Statement of Purpose section of the college catalogue is the sentence, “As a college committed to the historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole of life.” We wonder whether this purpose, value, and order are to be achieved and perpetuated through training in the arts of warfare. In light of these arguments, we feel that ROTC should be removed from the curriculum and be made available solely on an extra-curricular basis.

Oil And Other Things

Recent events in the Middle East have once again turned that barren land into a battlefield and driven the world into a state of shock. For the first time since the Cuban Missile Crisis, many people are genuinely afraid - afraid that the Cold War may suddenly get hot as two of the world’s superpowers, who are now materially and psychologically backing their puppet ideological foils in an arena already smeared with hate and blood from a conflict extending through much of recorded time, may take up the fight themselves.

Why must the Arabs and Jews fight again? For oil? (Israel is presently pumping 120,000 gallons a day out of the Sinai Peninsula.) Or for increased power and prestige in the eyes of the world? Or because winning the “Holy War” has become so ingrained in the minds of most Arabs and Jews that it becomes essential to existence - and that losing is like going through a horrible withdrawal? We would not even begin to answer the question why orto say one side is right and the other wrong. The issues are just too complex. All we can say is that we too feel fear today.
MARY HOBBIE

ARA Slater Causes Digestive Difficulty

As if there weren't enough hang-ups on this campus, a new phenomenon has been observed. At least, it's new to freshmen and transfer students. To those of us who have noticed it in previous years, it’s still a shock. I call it the “what for you please” neurosis. The name even rhymes if you push it. The effects of this phenomenon are felt largely in the area of the stomach. However, prolonged suffering can lead to depression and obsessive behavior. Recent reports also note increased thermal activity around the heart.

The “what for you please” neurosis strikes in a small area of the college community. Health officials have limited it to three houses in Patterson Court. Some who suffer from this disease claim that it strikes three times a day with clock-like regularity. Others (who, interestingly, sleep later in the morning) report attacks only twice daily. This insidious corrupter of innocent peptic regions causes its victims to suffer strange cravings. These obsessions seem to center around food items replete in Vitamin C and Vitamin D. These, of course, are the most scarce commodities in the region. The disease has the effect of sending rampaging students flying to the Tastee-Freeze in Cornelius to drown their sorrows in milkshakes. Since the craving for Vitamin D has been so beneficial to Tastee-Freeze business, one observer maintains that the “what for you please” neurosis is a plot hatched by dairy maids. This rumor cannot be substantiated.

According to reports from sufferers, the symptoms of the disease follow a set pattern. The sufferer feels drawn to one of the three houses in Patterson Court. This attraction is accompanied by rumbling from the stomach region and dizziness. Once one steps into the house, the attack becomes worse. The ears ring with the words “What for you please?” every twenty seconds. The nose suffers from an odor which is similar to that of Raid mixed with boiled cabbage. The eyes are confronted with visions of nightmare words like Muffaletto. The stomach takes a startled leap and crashes into the sufferer’s rib cage. This causes acute distress rapidly. It generally takes from fifteen minutes to half an hour for the more aggravated symptoms to subside. Symptoms may continue for three to four hours, however. One extreme case had to be admitted to Morganton suffering from a mental breakdown. This breakdown seems to have occurred when a sufferer was asked “what for you please” and offered unidentified objects called “Muffaletto,” “Chicken la-la King” and “Barcley.” Doctors refuse to give a prognosis for the student's recovery. Gifts of Tastee-Freeze ice cream to the sufferer are encouraged.

One of the side effects of the disease is called the rip-off compulsion. Maddened by the effects of the illness, some relief has been noted by those who give in to the rip-off compulsion. One sufferer reports that Coke rip-off is most popular. When asked why the rip-off helped, he responded, “I just have to get back at somebody, man” and burst into tears.

Sufferers from “what for you please” should take the following steps:
1) Do not go near the three suspect houses for at least 24 hours.
2) Take a vitamin pill a day.
3) If you must go to one of the houses, stuff cotton in your ears, and up your nose, and wear dark glasses.
4) Go to the Hub for dinner. (One rash sufferer rushed to Swain’s for relief and suffered the bends.)
5) Pray for an antidote.

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of Jacques Brourman, will give its first Saturday night concert tomorrow night at 8:15 in Ovens Auditorium. Internationally famous Metropolitan tenor Jan Peerce will be the guest artist for this concert. In his appearance with the symphony, Peerce will sing numbers including the Tomb Scene from Donizetti's “Lucia” and Vesti la Giubba from “Pagliacci” by Leoncavallo. In addition to Peerce’s performance, the Symphony will play Operatic selections from Rossini, Wagner, and Strauss. This program will include Rossini's overture to La Gazza Ladra, followed by Wagner's Prelude and Liebestod from “Tristan and Isolde” and the Overture and Venusberg Music from “Tannhauser.” The concert will close with the waltz rhythms from the Gypsy Baron Overture by Johann Strauss. Tickets may be procured by calling the Charlotte Symphony.

Phillippe Cousteau, world-renowned oceanographer, will appear in person at the first of the Charlotte Nature Museum's Annual Ecology Program series in Ovens Auditorium on Oct. 20. Cousteau will discuss his Antarctic Exploration and will narrate a preview film of his Television Special to be aired on ABC, November 29. The film footage recounts the voyage to the Antarctic made by Phillipe Cousteau, his father Jacques Cousteau, and the divers of the Calypso during the Arctic summer of Dec. 1972 to March 1973. Featured will be underwater shots of unexplored caves and icebergs. Tickets are available from Ovens Auditorium. The performances are at 3 p.m. and 7 p.m.