Che Dauvidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” — Marshall McLuhan

ALEC MOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR FEBRUARY 16, 1973

Danger: Explosive

We laud the discretion of the Student Life Committee (SLC) in handling the highly volatile issue of the recognition of
what constitutes the legitimate status of Sigma Phi Epsilon (SPE) fraternity. Their efforts at compromise are remarkable in that while
emphasizing that to remain on Patterson Court as a social organization, the SPE's must comply with the spirit of the
Trustee Resolution, they did not go out to hang the SPE’s as an organization for past violations.

The wisdom behind this move becomes obvious, for not only does it prevent a conflagration reminiscent of the old fraternity
fights, but it gives the SPE’s an opportunity to bend their policies so that they may continue to eat and
socialize on campus. However, if they choose not to exercise this right, then the SLC has given them enough warning
and would be right in taking whatever action they deemed necessary to induce conformity, or make the SPE’s leave Patterson
Court entirely.

We feel that national fraternities such as SPE should have the right to stay on campus if they obey the
basic dictates of the trustee decision. Fraternities can provide that element of diversity for those students who feel that the
other alternatives offered to them are not suitable. For many students, the concept of a self-selection fraternity fulfills adequately what
social needs they may have.

We think that the machinery the SLC has established to mediate any quarrels between the SPE’s, or for that matter
any other group, and the Patterson Court Council is the best possible under the circumstances. The Council of Social Organizations
should, by having elements from both the Patterson Court houses and recognized off-campus houses, be able to make decisions that
are acceptable to all. And if it can't, then the SLC still will be there to arbitrate.

Both groups insist that their system has something positive to offer the campus. Hopefully, both groups will be willing to
give in a little to the demands of the other so that the diversified interests of the student body as
a whole may be better met.

Calendar Cooperation

In the past several weeks, much attention has been focused on the future of next year's calendar, with opinion aligning
itself behind either the “Bevan calendar” or the “SGA calendar.” This week's final decision of the Faculty Executive Committee largely
supported the model proposed by the SGA Senate. A victory for students over the Administration?

Certainly, the Senate is to be commended for its initiative in publicizing the fact that a calendar formulated with little
apparent consideration of student feeling was on the verge of being adopted. We further applaud the Senate for crystallizing a
vague “student dissension” into a concrete, workable alternative to the original calendar, and for its continued work in keeping students
and faculty abreast of developments in the issue.

The student body is to be praised for strong and committed support of its Senate and the innumerable individual acts
of a student emphasizing his sentiments on the calendar to faculty and administrators. Yet no less do we acclaim the
willingness of the Executive Committee to reassess an administrative recommendation and to consider seriously the welfare and the suggestions of
students.

Of course, the calendar decision may be viewed as just another episode in the long series of student-faculty-Administration conflicts, muscle
flexings, and fragmentations. But we think it might be more clearly seen as evidence of what can come of definitive
action, open debate, and sincere concern. It just may be that each of the constituents has fought a struggle with
itself, and the college community has emerged the victor.

MILES WARD

Unsympathetic Doctor Gives No Ear To Patients

Dr. George opened the door to his very own house and thought of what to expect inside. Since it was
5:30 he decided that dinner would be cooking. In these last hours of the day that was all he cared
to think about. Dinner cooking, he was at home, other people would be going home, too. In the time after
work and before he planned his work for that night he decided he might get in a nap.

“McGhee, McGhee dear. Tell me how was work.” Dr. George's wife walked to his chair with a small drink and
sat next to him. He saw now his nap was ruined.

“Thank you dear. Well work today was good. A lot of it for Monday. But very interesting. Yes, one very
interesting.”

“Well tell me. Was it Miss Giles and those dreams she has you tell her are only in her head.
She still can't get any sleep?”

“No, not Miss Giles today. Those pills I gave hercan knock out a lumberjack. Not a word from her in
a week. Had a young fellow in today. Nice young fellow.”

“Was he from the community?”

“No, no—not from around here. I'm not sure where he was from. You know, Ann, he was one of these
travelers. About 22 I'd say. Hair on his shoulders, longest hair I've ever worked with. He was an artist of
some kind. Paints, writes, works, and rides around in a panel van."

“What was wrong? Was he using drugs?”

“Well, Ann, I can't say for certain, but that wasn't his problem. He and a girl walked in and he
had a big bandage on his head. Said he wanted me to take a look at his ear.

“And you know, Ann, it was the damndest thing I've ever seen. Here was this young long-hair with his ear
sliced halfway off right up close to the skin.”

“My Lord, McGhee. How'd it happen?”

“Well, that’s the unbelievable part. Seems this girl he was traveling around with was throwing him over. She'd told him
it was finished. Done with. Also seems this fellow went a little crazy when she dropped this on him. I’m
damn certain he went crazy.”

“And that's how he hurt his ear?”

“Almost. Now this kid was an artist, remember. He'd read about some other big artist who'd cut his ear off
and given it to his sweetheart. So this crazy kid decided to follow suit. He took a blade from a
razor, went to a gas station restroom, and proceeded to amputate his own ear. He got halfway down when the
pain did him in.”

"My God.”

“That’s not all of it, either. This girl revived him and drove him in. He told her why and all
that. That he loved her, couldn't let her go. The works.

“Anyway, Ann, this fellow was crying and talking the whole time I was sewing his ear on. Asked me to
finish the job. Said he had to give it to her. No, he wasn't crying because of his ear. What
did him in was the girl. Then he started begging me to talk with her. Got down on the floor
begging me to talk with her. A damn poor scene for a doctor's office.”

“Did you talk with her, McGhee? What'd you say?”

---

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Staff Writer

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Jacques Brourman will present Yehudi Menuhin in two performances at Ovens Auditorium
today and tomorrow. Hailed as one of the world's greatest masters of the violin, Menuhin will play the strenuous and
highly renowned Beethoven Concerto in D major. Serge Prokofieff's Symphony No. 3 will also be performed by the Orchestra. Performances
are at 8:15 p.m. Student tickets are $1.50 and may be obtained by calling the symphony office.

---

“Talk with that girl? I should think not. Told the kid to straighten up. Give her out if she wants
out. He's not the first man to be thrown over, and he'll soon find there are more fish in the
sea.”

“McGhee, couldn't you have said anything to her? Just a little to ease things along?”

“Ann, I hardly think so. Look at us for example. We get along well. But if you'd thrown me over
do you think I'd have tagged along begging? No, indeed. You'd be somewhere else today. And that's the price to
pay when a woman puts the jilt on a man. They'll both suffer and I can't change any of that.”

“But just a little, dear? Just to say a little to them. Anything besides leaving them in the mess they
were in.”

“Well, Ann, things seemed pretty clear to me. The girl had left by the time I finished. This fellow goes
racing off to the bus station to figure where she might be headed. But then I'd done enough. Fellow's ear
was healed. Cleanly sewn back in. Remember Ann, I'm no minister. Just a doctor. But a good one. A damn
good one if I say so myself.”

“Yes dear. That you are. And I guess you're right, too.”

---

Ionesco’s soaring hymn to existence continues at The Golden Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum of Art. Performances are Wednesdays
through Saturdays at 8:15 p.m. and Sundays at 2:30 p.m. Tickets are $3.

“The Bridge,” a masterpiece of director Bernhard Wicki, investigates student involvement in the German cause during the waning days of
the Third Reich. It will be shown Sunday, February 18 in the Golden Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum of
Art at 8 p.m.

“Boeing, Boeing,” a comic farce, will conclude its run at the Pineville Dinner Theatre Sunday. Tickets are from $7 to
$10.
