Che Vol. LXII, No. Twenty-Seven

JACKSON AND HIS HERO

Bill Jackson is leaving this year (See story on page 7).

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

Davidsonian

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

May 18, 1973

Candid Remarks Cause Furor In Fund Raising

By BRUCE MALOY
MANAGING Editor

A local furor has arisen over a story which appeared in Tuesday's Wall Street Journal. The story, an interview with
a professional fund raiser, Douglas Allinger, centers on his money-finding ability. Allinger is the local head of Tamblyn & Brown,
Inc. which is providing professional assistance for the Queens-Davidson Fund Drive. The story is a very frank look at some
behind-the-scenes techniques of the fund-raising trade. It details some of the more sensitive aspects of how various people are chosen
to solicit contributions and how the people who are being asked to give are appealed to.

EPC Backs Recommendations On Extended Studies Program

By HUGH MOORE
Contributing Editor

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) gave their support recently to recommendations which would make the freshman/sophomore Extended Studies program voluntary
and which would delete its reading program and course options. Although students would no longer be able to take a
course as part of the Extended Studies program, they would be allowed to elect one course on a pass/fail basis
if they had not taken a pass/fail Extended Studies option that year. Also, each student would have the option of
requesting and receiving a regular grade on his Extended Studies work. The recommendations further advise that credit in Extended Studies
not be given for participation in Male Chorus, wind ensemble, or debate.

On faculty participation in Extended Studies, the recommendations, which originated in the eight-member Extended Studies Committee, state, “We recommend that
the number of projects supervised by each member of the faculty not exceed two in a term in which the
faculty member is teaching two courses. We further recommend that a faculty member who supervises in addition to his normal
course load a total of eight different projects within a five-term period (summers excluded) be released from one course during
the term in which the eighth project is undertaken or during one of the two immediately following terms. For faculty
members who cannot arrange for this release of time, we recommend that the college establish a special fund of approximately
$10,000 to provide faculty summer research grants proportional to the number of projects supervised, up to a maximum of $100
per project. The purpose of these two (See EPC, Page 12)

Pre-Law Advisory Program Criticized

By JIM PAULSEN
Contributing Editor
And BOB HOWELL
Managing Editor

Several Davidson seniors expressed dissatisfaction this week with the college’s pre-law advisement program. “Davidson's image has slid since I've been
here,” said Dennis Watson, “and the reason is that the law advisors aren't trying to build up their contacts.” Watson
was disturbed by the fact that “your average at Davidson gets no more special ranking than the same grade average
at a state school. My main gripe is that I'm not getting in any places that I couldn’t be accepted
to from a state school.” Watson felt that students should be told more realistically what their chances are for getting
into certain graduate schools. “It is important that we assign some of the best professors to the law advisement program,”
he added. “They should be people who are really aware of the current law school situation.”

This sentiment was echoed by Mike Deese. “In many cases we overshot because we were led by too much optimism.
Our law advisors need to spend more time in establishing good relations with law schools,” he noted. “Davidson just does
not have the reputation outside the South which we are led to believe it does.” Deese said that not until
some parents of students complained about the advisement program did they begin to hear from the law advisors. “I realize
it is part my fault for not going around and seeking these advisors out, but it seems our counseling program
should be much more active,” he added. “We had no general meetings to talk about application procedures, about which law
schools would meet our career plans, or any other information. All we had is what comes out of the pre-law
handbook,” Deese explained.

Steve Suflas also voiced criticism. “There definitely is a weakness in the pre-law program at Davidson. They're limited in the
amount of information they have about Northern schools.” Suflas observed that “People are getting into law schools, but they’re getting
into their last choices. Look at the schools that people in our class have been accepted by. They’re just not
the top schools.” He admitted that part of the problem was the law schools themselves. “They don't seem to have
rational admissions policies; and they get so many qualified applications. Still, I hope that changes can be made to improve
communication.”Between law advisors and students, to make the program more directly helpful to the student,” Suflas said. He added that
a possibility would be to “set it up like the pre-med program, with just one advisor. That would be his
full duty.”

Professor of Economics Randall Kincaid, a member of the Law Advisory Committee, conceded that there were problems with the program.

While the article is basically about Allinger, many references are made to the Queens-Davidson Drive. For example: “When the campaign's
leaders realized that one prospect had been elected a Davidson trustee, they raised his requested donation to $35,000 from $25,000.”
It is candor such as this which has upset officials at Queens, Davidson, and Tamblyn & Brown.

“I was incredibly surprised and incredibly disappointed when I saw the story,” said Allinger. “I certainly regret anyone interpreting the
story as malice on my part toward the institutions or the individuals involved,” added Allinger. “As I understood it, this
was to be a story about me and my occupation. It was not meant to be an expose,” he continued.
“I obviously had no control over what the reporter wrote. However, one of the last comments made by the reporter
to me was that he felt that the story would help the colleges,” concluded Allinger.

Allinger said that the Journal reporter, Bob Arnold, was a former employee of his. The reaction among Davidson administrators can
best be termed, “stunned amazement.” Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell commented, “I have no idea yet
what the results of this article will be.” College officials knew that a story was being done on Allinger but
were expecting to be contacted before the story was published. Cornell said, “The total effect is distorted and not truly
representative of the fundraising effort.”

“In view of increasing competition for a limited number of places in law schools, it is imperative that we have
a first-rate law advisement program,” he said. Kincaid noted that the committee’s main failing so far has been “not advising
for non-law options.”

“I don't think the sole motivation of these students is to make a lot of money. I may be wrong,
but what I believe they're looking for is a job with some social leverage, something interesting.” As possible alternatives to
law school, he listed local and federal government service, work in public interest organizations, hospital administration, college work in admissions
and fundraising, and jobs in such areas as crime, housing, energy, and health.

Kincaid has visited two law schools this year, those of Emory and the University of Georgia, “to let us find
out about their program and to let them know more about ours.” He indicated that the visiting program would continue
and be expanded next year.

Tamblyn & Brown, Inc. reacted swiftly to the story. Bernard Carter, a vice president and senior officer from Tamblyn &
Brown associated with the fund drive, flew in from Washington to meet with Cornell, Director of Development Don Winston, and
Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. Before the meeting, Cornell said, “The vice president of Tamblyn & Brown
has flown down to make profuse apologies for what they consider irresponsible and unethical actions.

“I think we should remember,” he continued, “not to try anyone in the press: not Mr. Allinger or the Queens-Davidson
Fund.” After the meeting with Carter, Bevan stated, “Mr. Carter was here to apologize. While I appreciate his personal concern
and attention, I am not in a position to say that all is forgiven by the college.” Carter declined to
make any comment.

Allinger stated that he is no longer associated with the Queens-Davidson Fund Drive. Asked if he is being fired from
Tamblyn & Brown, Allinger also declined comment. Asked if Davidson College had anything to do with Allinger leaving the fund
drive, Cornell said, “We had absolutely nothing to do with it.” When asked to appraise Tamblyn & Brown's work on
the fund drive, both Winston and Cornell refused comment.

As to the fate of the Queens-Davidson Fund Drive, Cornell said, “I still feel it can be met if we
can regroup our forces.” Bevan expressed a similar opinion. (See CANDID, Page 12)

Concerning the possibility of having only one person handling completely the law advisement program, he said, “I think it would
be a waste of the college’s resources. Students react differently to different professors, so I think it’s better to have
the advising spread out among men of different personalities.”

Other members of the Law Advisory Committee are Professor of Political Science W. P. Minter, chairman, Professor of History Malcolm
Lester, and Professor of Education W. B. Hight.

Publication Ceases

With this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication for the spring term. Publication will resume on Friday, September 14, 1973, after
summer vacation. The editors and staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN wish everyone an enjoyable summer.
