Page Six
May 4, 1973
The Davidsonian

A Conversation With President Spencer

(This week, DAVIDSONIAN Editor Alec Hoon and Managing Editor Bob Howell discussed with College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. how
the college has changed since his arrival in 1968.)

DAVIDSONIAN: What do you see as the high points in your years at Davidson?

Spencer: First of all, I want to emphasize that the positive changes that have occurred have been the products of
the work and thought of a lot of people, not just personal accomplishments. One of the primary changes that have
taken place in the community was the decision to enlarge the student body from around 1000 people to 1500-1600. It
was felt that we could keep the small, residential college nature at that level. Obviously, one of the most important
aspects of that decision was that the additional 500-600 students would be women. Along with the larger student body was
the basic decision to make the library a much larger building. This involved changes in the whole concept of a
new library, including financial aspects.

In the area of academics, what we've been doing is fleshing out the Blue Sky curriculum which was adopted about
five years ago. The Honors College was a feature of that program, and I think that, having gotten under way
as it has, it’s a good base from which to move ahead. The South Asia program also has been successful
in many ways, though it has not grown in terms of student interest as much as we had hoped. Concerning
the foreign study program in India with the University of Baroda, there has been no more progress due to international
diplomatic problems, though we still hope to pick it up again and have it approved by the Indian government.

The Extended Studies program is another area that I think is a very important aspect, insofar as it enables students
to relate non-classroom experience to classroom experience as a part of their education. Currently, the program is being evaluated to
ensure that work done is of high quality and demanding.

DAVIDSONIAN: Are there any aspects of the past few years which you think could have been handled better?

Spencer: I think one of the areas we have not moved very fast in but have at least made beginnings
in is the whole question of making a better situation for minority students. Numbers here have grown very slowly despite
efforts to increase them. We're just beginning to get minority members into the professional staff, and I hope very much
that that will continue and that we will make faster progress than we have.

DAVIDSONIAN: Do you have any regrets about the decision to restructure the social system? How do you think it’s working?

Spencer: I don't have any regrets about the decision. Everybody agreed that the fraternity system was deteriorating, and it seemed
to me that it was a policy of wisdom and courage to do something and not sit back and let
it just fall apart. I think it remains to be seen how wise the way the changes were made will
prove to be. I believe it will take at least a college generation to sift out what's good, to modify
it and make it the best we can get. The big gain is that we no longer have a situation
in which some percentage of the freshman class—early in the year—felt themselves branded as socially inferior.

DAVIDSONIAN: How do you see your role as president in regard to the two areas of academics and financial development?

Spencer: I would personally not be interested in a college presidency which was purely fund raising or purely administrative. Things
have become so complex, but in a college of our size I still think it is possible for the president
to exercise a role in the entire operation of the college. The president should have and express, I think, overall
objectives and ideals, and should put the weight of his office behind these through the faculty and the other officers
of the college, and be one to keep pushing to see that these things are carried out.

DAVIDSONIAN: Considering the need for funding of such programs as the new Union and new housing, what will be the
respective roles of thedevelopment office and yourself?

Spencer: You certainly need an adequate development staff, but there is always the question of whether we are spending too
much on staff for what we're getting back. This is very difficult to measure. Now, there are certain calls which
the president must make, and the role of the development staff is to organize the development effort in such a
way that, at the appropriate time and situation, the president can be best used.

(Staff Photo by uuu)

"The changes have been the products of the work and thought of a lot of people."

"I still think the president can execute a role in the entire operation of the college."

DAVIDSONIAN: It takes time for a staff like this to get moving, and we've had to start almost from scratch,
but we've made some definite progress. With the annual fund and the Wildcat Club, for example, we've raised the total
to more than $400,000, whereas up until three years ago we'd never raised more than $200,000.

DAVIDSONIAN: What are your thoughts on the distance between the president and the student body?

Spencer: This is a problem for all college presidents, more today than ever. There was a day when things were
less complex, when there were fewer time-consuming things to do on the administrative level, when presidents had more time to
spend with both students and faculty. This year I've been away more than ever because of the Queens-Davidson campaign, and
it's a real frustration. Having been dean of students here, I'm conscious of and would like to have the kind
of relationship with students I know is possible. Two ways we've been trying to ease the problem are through the
dean of students and by choosing a graduating senior for the position of assistant to the president. Even so, after
this fund-raising campaign is over, I hope I can pick up on things I used to do in connection with
students.

(Staff Photo by Hoon)

DAVIDSONIAN: Do you think there has been any communication breakdown between the administration and the faculty?

Spencer: My ideal is that all groups who work on this campus feel they are part of a common enterprise,
not categorized and split into divergent groups. There will be some disagreement between and within students, faculty, and administration, but
I don't like always to see one group set against the others. Undoubtedly, we in the administration have made mistakes,
we should've perhaps gotten more of an indication of faculty or student feeling before making certain decisions; I hope in
the future we can do better.

DAVIDSONIAN: What do you see as some of the significant steps the college has made this year?

Spencer: I think we've made real strides in alumni relations. A lot of alumni were upset about fraternities, football, coeducation,
"permissiveness" on the campus. I believe that most of our alumni who were disenchanted have gotten some perspective. Obviously, a
big step has been the beginning of coeducation. I think it was important to have the women we had this
year who have given us some understanding of the needs and problems of women students as they come in as
freshmen next year. Another aspect of significance is the progress made toward the resolution of the whole governance question.

DAVIDSONIAN: Regarding governance, do you feel that students should have a vote in the new governance system?

Spencer: I've always felt that the faculty should be the central element in any legislative body on a college campus.
At the same time, I believe that there should be a college body of some kind which includes the entire
faculty, but in which there are students and administrative staff people who do have a vote on matters which appropriately
concern the entire college community.

DAVIDSONIAN: Could you give an example of a typical day as president?

Spencer: There isn't really a typical day, but it runs everywhere from interviewing a new faculty member, to conferences with
the staff, to correspondence which has to be handled, to planning for trustee meetings, to luncheon and dinner meetings for
fund raising... these kinds of things. I think the generalization that can be made is that the job of a
college president is one of infinite variety - you just never know what's coming up next.
