Page Ten May 11, 1973

The Davidsonian

Sports Problem Alternatives Finalized

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

(Ed. Note: This is the fifth and concluding article dealing with the athletic crisis at Davidson College. It examines where we have been, what we have seen, and what the alternatives are for the future of Wildcat athletics.)

Half a league, half a league, Half a league onward, Into the valley of Death Rode the six hundred. Cannon to the right of them, Cannon to the left of them, Cannon in front of them, Volleyed and thundered. Stormed at with shot and shell, Boldly they rode and well, Into the jaws of Death, Into the mouth of Hell Rode the six hundred.

Sending a team unprepared into the intercollegiate athletic battlefield may not be precisely analogous to the mission of the Light Brigade. It is, however, somewhat similar. If a team is not backed financially to the extent of its opposition, or to some reasonable norm, then the team has very little chance of success. The same holds true on the recruiting front. If a coach cannot go out and bring a player who is academically qualified to the school without being put through a long wait to see if the prospect can be admitted, then he is unable to successfully recruit alongside his competitors. It seems that if a player has the academic quality to enter Davidson College, then some method could be developed to avoid the long delay with application procedures to allow the coach to sign a grant with the prospect. This is not the case at Davidson. So not only are athletics hindered by financial barriers here, they are also encumbered by the admissions procedures.

Presenting the findings of this series can be done in two short phases. First: a subsidized college or university. The majority agree: No! We don't want to be a Vanderbilt. The people present cast the decision, with the result being no subsidy. Recently, the SGA voted to de-subsidize this sport. This move seems to have been done with a bit too much haste. It is not yet clear that a de-subsidized program will cost any less than a non-subsidized one. Now, if the Senate was speaking of abolishing the football program altogether, then their idea makes quite a bit more sense. Football cannot compete successfully in the NCAA with the money they get now. There is no reservoir of money to increase the football budget. It thus seems that the abolition of the gridiron clashes is the only solution.

But wait. There seems to be another way to maneuver the financial aspects so that football could be maintained. That would be to take stock in Tommy Holland's plan of running the basketball program on a completely auxiliary basis. Let a separate fund raise money for the cage program at Davidson. Thus the school saves the $140,000 it spends annually on basketball. Seems easy, doesn't it? With a little proper management of funds in this program, the basketball team has the money to recruit and compete successfully on the NCAA level. With the 'surplus' of 140 grand, the college can begin a distribution of these funds to the direly needed areas, namely minor sports. With a couple of scholarships, tennis, soccer, and baseball would be able to compete very successfully in the conference. Some more expense money would be a tremendous aid for most of the non-subsidized sports. The money saved from the basketball move would be invaluable to these minor sports, which are now receiving only minimal financial support from the school.

But fans say, "The football problem is the only one." This is actually not the case. The whole athletic program now goes on gingerly, close to the edge. It seems it should not be this way. Davidson athletics are functioning now, then what can be expected with additional funds?

Perhaps, though, a non-subsidized program would...be somewhat less expensive than a subsidized one. It has been estimated that a non-subsidized program would save the school only $15-20,000 per year. However, Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell has a study underway to look at the schools playing this type of football, which will give the college a pretty sound estimate of the costs of a non-subsidized program. Whether or not these figures will be released to the public is unknown. But it makes pretty good sense to wait until some survey is completed before any action is taken on football, unless it is completely abolished as a financially supported sport by the trustees of the college. Thus, it seems the most efficient and economical move would be to place the basketball team on the level of an auxiliary enterprise. Holland feels that this must be done now, if it is to be done effectively. Whereas this would not solve the college's athletic financing problems, it would ease the pressure on most of the sports which need money quickly and keep football in existence until a completely rational decision can be made.

The second phase of the problem deals with the admissions procedure. It is only fair for an athlete to meet the regular requirements for any other student. But it does seem that some considerations could be made regarding the long wait that they have to endure before a decision can be made official. It does not seem to be bending the standards unfairly to allow an athlete to be signed and admitted early, if he meets the academic requirements. This is an important point in any athletic program. If recruiting cannot be done effectively, then a team will not be able to compete on the level with other schools. There is no sense in a prospect signing a grant-in-aid with Davidson only to be rejected later because he would lose all chances of gaining a grant with any other school. It seems the admissions committee could make some decision early, if the case warranted it for a student or an athlete. Make no mistake about it. This does not by any means call for the lowering of academic standards for athletes. What it does say is that Davidson should either give sports the support and leeway that they need, or drop them altogether. It does not seem that the latter alternative is the one which would benefit the school the most. Athletics play an important part in the make-up and function of a college. It makes sense that Davidson should take the immediate course of action necessary to provide these sports with the support they need as they charge into the crucial stage of their battle in today’s crisis in athletics.

Stormed at with shot and shell
While horse and hero fell,
They that had fought so well
Came through the jaws of Death,
Back from the mouth of Hell
All that was left of them,
Left of six hundred.
When can their glory fade?
O the wild charge they made!
All the world wondered.
Honor the charge they made,
Honor the Light Brigade,
Noble six hundred!

CAMERAS PHOTO SUPPLIES DARK ROOM EQUIPMENT RECORDS TAPES SOUND EQUIPMENT Hi-Fi Camera Center Charlottetown Mall

ERROR-FREE TYPING NYLON TYPING RIBBON CORRECTION RIBBON ERRORITE AT YOUR BOOKSTORE

CORNELIUS Open Til 9:00 Every Night Lowest Prices On All Beverages

RANDOM HOUSE WANTS YOU! Dissatisfied with greasy dorm cooked meals and over-priced ARA horseburgers? It’s not too late to self-select RANDOM HOUSE! In order to diversify our ranks while actively supporting the college's policy of non-selectivity in college-owned facilities, we are attempting to recruit as many students as possible before the June 2nd deadline. For details contact our recruiting representative, John Branigin at 892-1179, or Dean Will Terry at 892-8021 ext. 225. Select Random: pay less, eat better, party more, (coeds welcome). Note: Due to quota requirements we are unable to take either members of fraternities or affiliates of off-campus groups.