(cue BH iGis Ege Davidsonian carvremi> teecemz full Leen Beves Staff pets os V enable WOMEN AND MINORITIES SEEDED Project
of Earns Georgian Cities 2 we of inner somes faculty + seed for more women and members to comply with
national requirements 23 ere E04 Students Seek Large By CHARLES KENNON Staff Writer For a year there have been various
interests proposed and run by the variety. Three who sought funding even have echoes. Vice President for Academic Affairs John
M. Bevan is heavily involved with applications to the Humanities fund. He stated that one Davidson graduate, Mark Ervar, applied
for another one.

Executive Editor
MIKE TANNER

Managing Editors
BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD

Sports Editors:
JIM SITTERSON
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Associate Editors:
ALAN BLAKLEY
DOUG BROWN
TOM BRUCE
STEVE CANTERBURY
TODD FADES
JOR EARLE
MARY HOEBIE
RICHARD ROMEYN
MILES WARD

Contributing Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
PHILIP BISHOP
DAVID HANIG

ear $10 for 2 per. study of Latin American Government. Three students, Tom Hatle, Wouty Commette, and Roger Manie, along
with Professor of English Frank Bliss, want to study Cramerton, NC. This is a textile town that has water on
Deen.

Asst. Managing Editors
LILLIAN GASCOIGNE
LARRY MIMMS
MARK WILENSKY

Photography Editor
PETE GOODMAN

News Editor
HARRIETT HODGES

Assistant Features Editors:
ALAN FORD
FRANCIS TOWNSEND

Assistant Sports Editor
MARK CONNORS

Advertising Manager:
JEFF SICH

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKCOM
PAUL MITCHELL

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
JEFF NEIKIRK

Asst. Business Managers:
Bevan Seeks Balance In Faculty

ORAL CEE MEO tone rae (atti (cpcete jtpegt bisdites re ther Seer ates 4 (pth ial nsica 6; final GOT,
Minorities of word er - B -D re ten teeing vaughn’ for the wr KZ 4 afsi*% $15 z ‘.
5 ~ ° ~ ise % Meeting OF 2 od ge “eS faculty and in its community. The Carnegie Commission
9 more professional persons who Higher Education are black or who represent minorities and it would be to our advantage
to pursue faculty members who are women rigorously. Vice President and + percent were minorities. Both groups better represented in
the entire US labor force where in 1970, 1 percent of the jobs were held by women and 14.9 percent
by minority group members. There is not a single black or member of another minority on Davidson's full-time faculty. Only
four women are teaching. The percentage of LOTS are is re Oe TTATILIETS 20 BOTAN. The Davidson full-time faculty for
Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said Bevan said he felt the same about the recruitment of women. He pointed out
that in the past, before coeducation, it was generally assumed that since Davidson was a men's institution, men would teach
here. This assumption was probably shared by both prospective women faculty members and the administration. Bevan also added, the number
of Humanities Grants faculty selected since it was founded at the turn of the century. He added that they wanted
to study the people. The group applied for $42 but may have to settle for less. Work will begin as
soon as money is available, and they hope to finish by May. “We've had awards for more than five years
and this is the (See STUDENTS, page 16) career of recruiting.

Efforts have brought two full-time women faculty members, Professor of Spanish Lois A. Kemp and Professor of English Georgiana Lieger.
Recruitment of blacks has not been as successful. Bevan said that there are primarily two reasons why no blacks have
been hired. First, Davidson is a Southern rural institution. Most black prospects have attended graduate schools in the Midwest, Northeast,
andCalifornia and after graduating want to stay in those regions. “There is also a strong movement among blacks to teach
in black institutions and make them stronger. It is a spirit of identity with the black cause,” Bevan explained. Bevan
emphasized that the college was making a concerted effort to hire minority group professors. “I think that it is in
line with the college's purpose to hire both more women and minority professors. A more diversified community is in full
agreement with this policy,” he added.

Senate Approves Night Exams
Grading Policy Faces Revision
By BRUCE CORSER
Managing Editor

A resolution by Blain Butner concerning night examination periods was unanimously endorsed by the student Senate this week. The resolution
proposes that evening exam sessions be instituted on a trial basis during the first two days of the exam period
from 7 to 10 pm for the fall of 1973. The institution of such exam sessions would be an expansion
of the present system. However, night exams would operate by the same guidelines under which daytime exams are now administered.
The rationale supporting night exams is that they will allow students greater flexibility of scheduling to fit various study habits.
Specifically, this would provide the students with the option of taking two exams in one day, not in succession, and
thereby completing exams at an earlier date. The resolution also charges the Senate with the responsibility of recruiting students to
aid in the additional workload that the night exam period would entail.

This proposal will be presented to the members of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) for consideration. The first proposal involves
lengthening the “drop” part of the “drop-add” period from one-tenth of a term to one-half of a term (from one
week to five weeks). The second proposal calls for deleting a failing grade from the grade point average once the
failed course has been repeated and to include within the grade point average only the repeated course grade. The failing
grade would remain on the transcript, however. The resolution was passed unanimously and will be presented to the EPC for
consideration.

A motion by Vince Rabil endorsing a proposal by Alec Hoon, which calls for the subsidization of the editor of
THE DAVIDSONIAN by $300 annually, was passed by an 11 to five majority. This endorsement will now go before the
Campus Tax Council for deliberation. The Senate also chartered two groups in its last meeting. The “Sunday Night Group” and
the “Great Concept Club” were both given official approval.

ANDY LAMAS
PHIL STYKES
HUGH MOORE
DAVID TRADER
JIM PAULSEN
Typists:
CHOLLET STILL
BILL ELLETT
PATTI SHANKWEILER
Technical Assistant:
Contributors this week: Ann Bode, Peter Celentano, Tracy Charles, Greg Dunn, Vic Fleming, Bonnie Henesy, Charles Kennon, David Kirby, Bill
Lloyd, Joe McMillon, Frazier Marsh, Robert Trawick, and Chris Young.

Published weekly at Davidson, NC, by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.

Last Tuesday, the SGA Senate heard student Steve Canterbury relate the results of a summer-long research project on grading procedures.
This report is the culmination of a study made by a special ad hoc Committee on Grading. Two recommendations were
outlined by Canterbury. The first involves lengthening the “drop” part of the “drop-add” period from one-tenth of a term to
one-half of a term (from one week to five weeks). The second proposal calls for deleting a failing grade from
the grade point average once the failed course has been repeated and to include within the grade point average only
the repeated course grade. The failing grade would remain on the transcript, however. The resolution was passed unanimously and will
be presented to the EPC for consideration.
