Two November 30, 1973 @ke DBavidesnian

By ALEC BOON

As a result of Wednesday's Governance meeting, it now seems likely that the student body will be represented by only
one student, the SGA President, at future faculty meetings under the most recently proposed new governance system. This decision emerged
as one of the tentative agreements reached during the committee's time in consideration of the third proposed governance model, a
system drawn up by Trustee Wex. Mulliss, Professor Jerry MacCormac, and SGA President Bx Phillips.

On Wednesday, the committee reviewed the first two phases of the 3.4 document. Thus, the committee will continue at the
next meeting scheduled for Dec. 11. The complete tentative agreement for the SGA President's role in faculty meetings is that
he or she will be allowed to attend the meetings with floor privileges but as a non-voting member. Under rare
circumstances, the Executive Committee of the Faculty may request that even the SGA President be excluded because of the confidentiality
of the matter under consideration.

It should be emphasized that decisions made now are tentative and may be altered if, for any reason, the sentiment
of the committee members changes. The committee also agreed that the faculty meeting agenda should be released soon enough so
that the SGA President would have a chance to call a forum if he or she so desired for any
or all members of the college community. The forum would provide an opportunity for the SGA President to become familiar
with the agreements and any feelings of these people before attending the faculty meeting.

The committee tentatively affirmed that the council system was a workable mechanism for college governance. In the various councils proposed,
all members of the college community—faculty, students, and administration—would be represented to some degree in an attempt to include input
from all groups. It was tentatively decided that student representatives should be included in all faculty committees dealing with educational
policy.

Also, Phillips introduced a paper in which he said that he was unsatisfied with Model III because it did not
provide a forum for open student-faculty discussion of issues. While one student present at faculty meetings is not enough, after
much discussion in which it was again stated that the faculty would never approve such an idea, Phillips' suggestion that
more students attend the faculty meeting was turned down.

THE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE (Staff photo by Goodman)

On Wednesday, the full Governance Committee met in the Baxter Chambers Room to continue their discussions on a new governance
system for the college. The next meeting is scheduled for Dec. 11.

Heat Reductions Keep Davidson Cool

By JIM PALLSEN
Contributing Editor

Because the supply of natural gas to Davidson College has been interrupted, some measures to conserve fuel have been put
in effect this week, including limiting the hours of heating in the dorms and a reduced temperature in all campus
buildings. Starting last Tuesday, the dormitories were heated only between the hours of 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. and from
6 p.m. to 10 p.m.

"The hours aren't really rigid, and we can change these times if students feel some other time would be better,"
said Jim Goodloe, chairman of the Energy Conservation Committee. Goodloe emphasized that students aren't the only ones affected by the
energy crisis, but that everyone on campus will share the discomforts of the fuel reductions. Director of the Physical Plant
Grover C. Meetze pointed out that the temperature in all buildings is being reduced to 68 degrees and that there...

SGA ELECTIONS

Election to be held Tuesday, Dec. 4
Filing Deadline is 5 p.m., Tuesday, Dec. 1, 1973
Chambers Lobby and Post Office
Students Office
Elected from Class of '75 (3), '76 (3), '77 (3)will be attempts to reduce some hall lighting and turn off
some incandescent lights. “We are trying to develop the best solutions to the situation. For instance, you can get heat
from the lighting, so we may not want to turn off some lights. Also, there will be no cut down
on outside security lights,” said Meetze.

With the present cutbacks, it is hoped that Davidson will be able to purchase the oil necessary for meeting the
college's fuel demands. One problem faced by the college is that under the oil allocation system, Davidson can only buy
as much oil as it purchased last year. Last year, the college utilized quite a bit of natural gas as
an energy source. Since gas supplies have been interrupted until April 15, the college is completely dependent on oil.

“We want to let everyone know what is happening so that they will be conscious of conserving energy in all
activities,” said Goodloe. An energy conservation committee has been formed by Goodloe to give students the opportunity to work with
Meetze and the Physical Plant Department in developing methods by which energy can be saved.

The present measures are aimed at reducing the fuel expended in producing steam heat. Contrary to early reports, hot water
will still be available in the dorms throughout the day. Unless the energy crisis becomes more severe, there are no
other major fuel cutbacks anticipated. Students are asked to use as little electricity as possible, but no regulation of usage
is contemplated at this time. It is possible that in the future certain campus buildings will be closed for the
night in order to conserve energy, but no concrete plans have yet been formulated.

“The action is to be commended and is reasonable. We must get used to living with less of the comforts
of life. I think it is a policy we should continue next year as well and in the years to
follow,” said Steve Smith in reaction to the fuel shortage measures. “It is just going to be a little colder,”
said Meetze.

Random House Closes Due To Funding Lack

The number of houses left on the Patterson Court dropped to eight when the Student Life Committee voted to discontinue
the lease held by the members of Random House. The reasons for closing were both a lack of sufficient finances
and a failure to meet the 20 percent non-off campus, non-national membership representation in the house, according to Council of
Social Organizations President Mitch Purvis.

The membership of Random House was dominated by members of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, having 19 out of a
total of 25 members. The number was “not enough to keep us financially solvent,” stated Random House treasurer Ken Williams.
Former Random House affiliate and present Sig Ep president Duncan Baker, although admitting that the closing of the on-campus eating
house might discourage some freshmen Sig Ep pledges, didn't think that the move would directly hurt the national SPE fraternity,
whose off-campus activities are strictly social.

“Out of 44 brothers, not more than 18 wanted to eat here anyway,” Baker pointed out, “and for those of
us that were, each member of Random House would have had to pay $220 apiece in order to keep the
house open,” Baker said. “We'll stay closed Winter term,” confessed Baker, “but Will Terry is trying to help us reopen
in the Spring if there is a renewed interest.”

Indeed, the main point that was continually being emphasized by all persons involved was the mistaken association of Random House
with the Sig Ep’s. “My reaction is that the two should not be confused with each other,” Purvis declared, “nor
should the closing be taken as a retaliation against the Sig Ep fraternity itself.”

“I do, however, think that some controls had to be necessary to keep the Sig Ep's from having both on
and off-campus houses,” Purvis concluded. Meanwhile, the displaced members are either trying to eat in houses elsewhere on the court,
at the ARA houses, or in their rooms.
