Ae =: A Ai | AM EARNEST AND | WILL BE HEARD!

Rabil Clarifies Drug Criticism, Wilson Accused Of Burneyism

To the Editor:

Last week I wrote a criticism of Andy Lamas’ study of pharmacy. Let me set a few things straight in
regard to my letter. That criticism was written primarily about the portions of Lamas’ study which related to independent interests.
His study actually encompassed many aspects of pharmacy such as national drug lobbies, illegal practices, pharmacy in other states, and
other areas. The information he gave regarding these areas I believe is accurate and factual.

In my letter I intended to give what I thought were additional facts regarding pharmacy in North Carolina, specifically about
independent pharmacies, the State Board, and the Code of Ethics. In light of these things, I must clarify and correct
a few statements. Andy did not actually say that pharmacy students could not do internships in chains. He just said
that special interests prevented this. But it is still legal in N.C.

I said independent stores do not clear that much more profit than chain stores. My idea of that much more
is not the same as Andy's. But it is true. Independent stores for the most part do clear more profit
than chains. Andy was able to demonstrate a several thousand percent mark-up. Later on I learned that Andy did study
a full range of drugs, but I didn’t understand this from the article.

My family has several independent drug stores, and I know for a fact that these independent pharmacies offer more services
than chains. I believe these services such as delivery, family drug profile charts, and the continuing education courses attended by
our pharmacists justify the prices they charge.

Vince Rabil '75
Davidson College

To the Editor:

In the Scriptures we read of one man’s opinion of Paul: “Thy great learning hast made thee mad!” I find
this phrase all too applicable, when used slightly out of context, to staff writer Gray Wilson; a columnist who at
one time appeared to be a pensive spokesman of rational student views (contra Cecil Burney). Mr. Wilson has over the
course of the year succumbed to the temptations of Burneyism and has allowed his analytic approach to issues to be
replaced by flaming rhetoric, jejune phraseology, and crude manifestations of the more acrimonious facet of his personality (a facet which
fortunately remains unpublished for the majority of us).

While in the past his ravings have been inconsequential in nature and thus unworthy of response, his last article on
public motor vehicle safety was objectionable to at least one reader. As an assistant working in the emergency room at
a Charlotte hospital, I have seen such infantile expressions of abandon as found in Mr. Wilson's article realized in the
form of broken bones, cruel lacerations, and pain in the eyes of the victims of motor accidents. Believe it or
not, I think most of these people, when pondering retrospectively, may very well decide that their moments of Wilsonian escape
were not of sufficient value to justify their present agony.

In my own opinion as one who daily travels on a ‘tombstone on wheels,’ I would not care to entrust
my unarmored cranium to the inconsiderate boors that frequent the area's roads. These people need every safety device possible, even
those which ignite the flamings of Mr. Wilson.

Andrew Bailey ‘74
Davidson College

The Davidsonian
April 20, 1973

FACULTY COLUMN

Professor Declares Boycott On Martin

By E. F. Patterson
Professor of Economics

Page Five

The appearance of the Honorable James G. Martin, member of Congress from the North Carolina Ninth Congressional District, as a
Spring Convocation speaker will turn an academic or educational affair into a political event. The very nature of his position
makes the occasion an exercise in political action, even if all he does is to recite nursery rhymes. It is
impossible for the President, or a member of Congress, to make a “non-political” speech or appearance, and to argue otherwise
is fatuous and spurious reasoning.

The form of government established by the Constitution and its Amendments is democracy. The unique feature of democracy that distinguishes
it from other forms of government is that in a democracy the governors and the governed are identical. It is
this fact that led Victor Gollanz to state, correctly, that “anything done officially in a democratic country is done in
your name, because unless you protest, it is as if you were doing it in your own person.” It follows,
then, that in a democracy one is obligated to take every opportunity that presents itself to influence public policy in
the direction which he believes is in the best interest of society.

I shall, therefore, boycott the Spring Convocation to protest against the political philosophy of Congressman Martin and against the positions
he has taken on the economic, political, and social issues that face the country. To cite a few examples of
positions with which I strongly disagree, he was ambivalent, to say the least, on the matter of busing to achieve
integration in the public schools. He has from the beginning consistently supported United States involvement in the Indochina War and
continues to support the war policies of the Nixon Administration. He supports the current‘Soak-the-poor’ budget of Nixon. He recently made
a speech in the House on the federal budget that revealed considerable ignorance even of the simplest elements of modern
economic theory. He voted to continue the House Committee on Internal Security (formerly the House Un-American Activities Committee) although, as
any reasonably informed person knows, this committee has consistently and regularly violated the fundamental principles of freedom of thought and
of justice.

I do not protest against Congressman Martin appearing. I would, and do, defend his right, which I would upgrade to
obligation, to seek and take every opportunity to enhance his reputation and to promote his philosophy and his policies on
economic, political, and social issues. I have an equal right, even obligation, to take every chance to diminish his reputation
and to thwart his policies in these areas. There are those who will say that my action is impolite and
ill-mannered. Most political action activities are impolite, even repulsive, to those who are of the opposite opinion. I think Glen
Ford, a supporter of Nixon and of United States involvement in Vietnam, was downright indecorous when he took the occasion
of a reception in Australia to let high-ranking Aussie officials know what he thought about their government's criticism of President
Nixon and his handling of the Vietnam War. (CHARLOTTE OBSERVER, April 7, 1973)

There are those who will say that my gesture is meaningless and even counter-productive, and they may be right. I
am willing to argue about the efficacy of specific political action tactics, but not about the principle of and the
necessity for political action, especially in a democracy. Though I urge others to take the same or similar action, I
do not mean to criticize, even by implication, anyone who does not. I follow the tune of my own drummer,
and I cannot, in good conscience, recommend this tune to anyone else or condemn anyone who does not step to
this music.

Frolics Promises Music, Outdoor Activity

The second concert weekend of the term will feature a variety of musical entertainment, including the hard rock of Blue
Oyster Cult and the raunchy Texas blues of Freddie King, next weekend. Spring Frolics, the second part of the Union's
“Spring Extravaganza,” will emphasize outdoor activities and lots of music on April 27 and 28.

The weekend will begin officially Friday with a “Lazy Afternoon” program on the lawn of the Cunningham Fine Arts building.
The show will be provided by Davidson students, and anyone who plays guitar or sings is encouraged to come out
and share the stage. The afternoon is intended to give students a chance to enjoy the spring sunshine, according to
Tom Tornee, Social Chairman of the Union, and students can drop in and lie around on the lawn anytime during
the afternoon.

At 7:30 p.m. Blue Oyster Cult, a hard-driving New York rock band, will perform in Love Auditorium. The Cult’s recent
second album was well received by reviewers in the rock trade papers, and their concerts have been acclaimed across the
country, especially in the South. After the Friday night show, there will be a number of open fraternity parties on
Patterson Court. At 10 p.m. the Union Bar will sponsor the “First Davidson Battle of the Bands” in the Rathskeller.
These bands are composed of Davidson students whose performances are to be recorded. Lanny Vincent, co-chairman of the Rathskeller committee,
claimed that the favorites would be “Bruno's Bunch” doing Hot Tuna and “Captain America’s Group” doing Mountain. At the same
time, the movie “Fillmore” will offer a chance to see some of those bands on film. “Fillmore” is a documentary
filming of the last concert at Bill Graham's famed Fillmore East and includes performances by the Grateful Dead, Hot Tuna,
Boz Scaggs, It's A Beautiful Day, and others. The movie will be shown at 10 p.m. on the baseball field.

Saturday's activities will open at 2:30 p.m. with a square dance on the lawn in front of Chambers building. “The
dance will give students a chance to come out and hear some good country and bluegrass music, and hopefully learn
how to square dance,” Joe Earle, president of the Union, said. “Square dancing is really a gas, and a caller
will be on hand to help people who don't know how to do it.” While the square dance is in
progress, students will have a chance to go ballooning. Beginning at 4 p.m., an amateur balloonist will be offering aerial
rides on the football field. Again at 2 and 4 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

At 9 p.m. Saturday night, Freddy King will bring the blues back to Davidson for the first time in four
years. King is one of the elder bluesmen whose mean guitar has influenced countless younger musicians. After the concert, Chambers
Nite Club will open, featuring the talents of Mathew and Peter, a young folk-rock trio. There will be carnival rides
running throughout the weekend in the Fine Arts Building Parking Lot. The rides will run continuously from Thursday night through
Sunday morning. In the event of rain, both the movie and the Lazy Afternoon entertainment will be moved to the
Union. If it rains Saturday afternoon, the square dance will be cancelled.
