Page Two February 2, 1973 The Davidsonian

White Announces College’s Intentions To Matriculate 360

By JIM JERNIGAN
Staff Writer

Davidson College intends to enroll next year a Freshman Class of approximately 360 students composed of 260 men and almost 100 freshman women, according to Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White. This will be the largest class Davidson has ever admitted during one year, White said.

As of this week, 717 persons have applied for admission. This includes 572 male and 145 female applicants. Overall, this constitutes an 11 percent increase over the 645 who had applied at this time last year. However, the number of male applicants, 572, has declined from last year’s 645 figure. White expressed surprise by this decline and is seeking to remedy this situation by preparing 8,000 new admissions brochures to be mailed out shortly.

Approximately 86 applications were received under the Early Decision plan, of which 69 were from men and 17 were from women. A total of 65 have been accepted: 51 are men, 14 are women. No blacks applied for early decision. Because the number of early decision applications was the greatest of the past five years, White feels that the students accepted are of a slightly higher caliber than in years previous. He further stated that a very slight rise seems to be developing in the overall qualifications of the applicants.

White pointed out that the acceptance of only 260 freshman males for next year would not cause a decrease in the total male population of the school. It will remain at 1,000 as determined by the trustees.

Davidsonian Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

News Editor:
TOM AINSWORTH

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Assistant Managing Editors:
BOB HOWELL
BRUCE MALOY
THOM NICOLL
MIKE TANNER

Assistant Features Editor:
JOHN CASSELS

Copy Editor:
BILL ELLETT

Photographers:
ROB PETERSON
JIM PORTER
ROB STRAND

This year’s freshman class had a relatively large enrollment of 320 men. The Class of ‘75 began with 300. Over the years, however, the average class size has ranged between 270-290, White said. Next year’s apparent drop is thus consistent with the average.

White was reluctant to place a number on enrolling blacks, but he seemed encouraged by the success of Larry Barr of the Admissions office in recruiting blacks. In fact, more black females have applied than have black males, White said. However, the total number of blacks on campus should definitely increase, he noted.

Davidson does not set any quotas on admission nor will the college lower standards of admission for anyone, White said. The basic criterion is the promise of academic success; however, special consideration is given to various applicants above this minimal level, he said. Alumni sons or daughters, relatives of financial contributors, ministerial students, persons with special artistic or athletic talents, or differing cultural backgrounds and experiences are given special evaluation, White noted. Additionally, the College seeks not to overload a particular department with prospective majors.

When asked if he was surprised by the small increase of applicants, especially male, in light of coeducation, White stated, “Being coeducational will tend to push the number of applicants up, but private schools nationwide are finding it harder and harder to compete with the cheaper state-funded institutions. Thus, the coeducational factor will probably be balanced by private school expense.”

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
ROBERT TOUCHTON
GRAY WILSON

Contributing Editors:
TOM BRUCE
TODD EADES
RICHARD ROMEYN

Assistant Sports Editors:
DAVID MELTON
JIM SITTERSON
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKOM
PAUL MITCHELL
JOHN LEMMON

Assistant Business Managers:
CLIFF KIRK
RICHARD ROMEYN
RICH SMITH
PHIL STIKES

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
ROBERT GATES

Contributors this week:
Betsy Alexander, Bruce Corser, Mark Deaton, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Alan Ford, Harriett Hodges, Jim Jernigan, Jack Linard, Ford Newman, Jim Paulsen, Charlie Shepherd, Charlie Slagle, Val Van Horn, and Bob Wright.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.

THAT RUN DOWN FEELING

Davidson students are wishing they had never heard of the flu bug these days. The college infirmary reports that it is treating around 25 students a day who have “flu-like symptoms” such as a mild sore throat, aches and pains, fever, slight cough, and a weak and run-down feeling which lasts for 48 to 72 hours. There is no shot, no magic pill to treat flu symptoms. Only rest and aspirin will ease the inconvenience, according to doctors.

College Constitution Proposal Given To Trustee Committee

By RICH WILSON
Editor-In-Chief

A proposal for a College Constitution which defines and distributes the areas of responsibility of each constituency was placed before the Trustee Governance Committee last week. DraftedBy trustee and law school dean Dickson Phillips at the request of the committee, the proposal is the first concrete model of governance studied by them. Governance Committee Chairman Walter Lingle emphasized, however, that this proposal is only a working document. It has not been adopted. In fact, the faculty members of the committee have been requested to draw up an alternate model to be presented at the next committee meeting.

The major governing body outlined in Phillips’ model is a Faculty Assembly composed of all members of the teaching faculty; 10 members of the administration including the President, the vice presidents, the Dean of Students, the director of the library, and up to five additional administrative personnel; and an undetermined number of students. Under the plan, the students would not be full members of the assembly but would serve as “adjunct” members. In regular sessions of the assembly, students would have voting privileges just as regular members, but the assembly could vote to convene an executive session in which students would be required to leave. Although the students’ representatives on the committee expressed willingness to relinquish participation on such topics as compensation, tenure, and other faculty professional affairs, they expressed disappointment that they could be ejected from meetings for other reasons.

The Faculty Assembly would have jurisdiction over educational policy, admissions, and the library, and a committee structure of standing and special committees to support the assembly. In addition to the assembly, the proposal calls for the establishment of “advisory councils” to the administration on finance and development, campus life, and athletics. These councils would include faculty, student, and administrative representatives who would advise the president with respect to operations, programs, and problems relating to these areas of concern.

The constitution includes provisions instituting the current Student Conduct regulations and the powers and organization of a student Senate within the jurisdiction of trustee review. The constitution also has sections on academic freedom, faculty employment and evaluation, as well as provisions for faculty and student caucuses, but these matters were left ambiguous pending definition by the committee. One purpose of the constitution is to codify the governing structure of the college. What constitutes the administration is defined, and the general powers and duties of the president are set down. The constitution also calls for the maintenance of a College Registry which would include a general table of administrative organization, duties of administrative officers, lists and functions of committees, and all college regulations. Another sidelight to the proposal is the creation of a chairman pro tem of the faculty who will speak for the faculty in (See COLLEGE, Page 12).

New DAVIDSONIAN Staff Announced By Editor Hoon

Rising juniors Bob Howell, Bruce Maloy, and Mike Tanner were named to Managing Editor positions of THE DAVIDSONIAN this week by newly elected Editor-in-Chief Alec Hoon. Howell, who has served as an assistant managing editor, will be in charge of the special report pages of the paper. He will be assisted by rising sophomore Charlie Shepherd. Maloy, a former assistant managing editor, will take over the duties of editing the news pages. Another rising sophomore, Bruce Corser, will help him. Tanner, who was also previously an assistant managing editor, will be in charge of the editorial and features pages of the paper. Rising sophomore Mark Deaton will be his right-hand man.

Rising sophomores Jim Sitterson and Gordon Widenhouse will operate as Co-Sports Editors. Their staff will include rising juniors Mark Conners and Bob Wetzel as their assistants. Senior Alan Baragona, and rising juniors Tom Bruce and Miles Ward will become Associate Editors. Contributing Editors, who will be in charge of investigative teams as well as special projects, include rising seniors Mary Hobbie, Hugh Moore, Jim Paulsen, and rising juniors Tom Ainsworth, Betsy Alexander, and Richard Romeyn. Rising junior Bill Ellett will fill the newly created position of Technical Assistant. His duties will be at the printshop where he will help put the pages together.

Rising junior Harriett Hodges will assume the duties of News Editor. She will handle Up ‘n’ Coming and cover the Senate meetings. The Photography Editor will be rising sophomore Pete Goodman. Rising senior Whit Whitworth will continue as the Business Manager, assisted by rising senior Cliff Kirk. Rising junior Rich Smith will head the advertising department. The Cartoonists will be rising senior Steve Balkcom and rising juniors John Lemmon and Paul Mitchell. Senior Robert Gates and rising junior Ricky Bell will remain in charge of circulation. Exchange student Val Van Horn will be the new Assistant Features Editor. She will write both previews and reviews of events at Davidson. Rising junior Lex Veazey will continue to do the Outside Perspectives Column and Francis Townsend will write the Entertainment Column.