Page Eight April 6, 1973 The Davidsonian

Davidson Athletic Problems Presented

CRISIS IN ATHLETICS:
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

(Ed. Note: This is the first in a series of articles dealing with the problems facing athletics at Davidson College
both now and in the near future, concluding with an examination of the possible alternatives to these problems.)

With the recent meeting of Davidson's athletic minds at Montreat, N.C., it seems to be the proper time to investigate
the athletic program in a detailed manner. The purpose of this series is to inform the public of the conditions
of the sports program here. Included will be a look into the monetary aspects of the programs here, the problems
encountered in recruiting and competing, the rising costs of athletics, and the alternatives to the continuing problems of college athletics
in general. In this first part of the series, some of the problems confronting athletics at Davidson are presented.

One of the more pressing problems in the Davidson sports alignment is the cost of funding the various teams. A
Davidsonian analysis in February 1970 showed that the Board of Trustees voted to make available from the college's general funds
a “sum equal to 52 times the average grant made to non-athletic grant recipients.” This “average non-athletic grant” comes to
somewhere in the neighborhood of $1000 per player. Adding this total to the $106,766 raised by the Wildcat Club, it
leaves the college with a deficit of about $14,000 for scholarships. The college agreed to provide this extra amount, under
the stipulation that this year would be the last time it would be done. The college must also contribute an
estimated $159,363 to the program this year to balance total expenses with income. The tab for basketball that must be
picked up by the college comes to a projected sum of $139,235.

“Money is one of the biggest problems facing intercollegiate athletics. We will definitely have to make some cutbacks somewhere. It
is just a matter of time to see which sport will be hit. I guess football is the one most
people expect to see cut.” —Tom Scott, Director of Athletics

Figures released earlier this year showed that the total expense of the football program comes to $348,139 (This is a
projection of the final figures.) The estimated income from all sources for the program was $188,776. This includes $82,000 from
game receipts and guarantees as well as $106,776 from the Wildcat Fund, to be used for scholarships. The football team
used $171,776 for scholarships.

Income for basketball from ticket receipts and guarantees was an estimated $130,800. Total projected expenses were $270,035. The minor sports
and intramurals have no income. Thus, they are entirely funded by the college. The total here is about $181,000.

Talking with Athletic Director Tom Scott, it seems apparent that there are problems in other areas of athletics besides money.
To begin with, there is recruiting at an academic college. Scott added that the coaches are very good at accepting
this principle and living by it. “Academics have hurt us in our fight to get a big man for the
basketball team,” Scott cited as an example. “That is the biggest reason for our slight decline in basketball. We just
need a big man in the middle.”

Assistant Director of Admissions and Financial Aid William Miller concurred with Scott. “We do not have any double standards for
the selection of students and athletes,” he said. “Our main consideration is whether or not we feel they can cut
the mustard here. We are not going to go out and admit a seven-footer if we do not think he
can make the grades and be happy here.”

Miller continued on to outline the general procedure in selecting prospective student-athletes. It is the same method as selecting regular
students. The college is concerned with what the student has to offer the college with regard to extracurricular activities, as
well as the ability of the college to fulfill the needs and desires of the student in his college life.
He also agreed with Scott on the idea of coaches staying within the admissions policies. “The coaches are very good
in staying within the standards here at Davidson,” Miller commented. “They look all over the country for good student-athletes. If
the admissions department feels that a certain prospect cannot succeed at Davidson, the coaches are...Here is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

not he feels that “hindrance on due to the high standards of the Triggermen Improve At Season's End With Fifth
Place Conference Finish By GORDON WIDENHOUSE Sports Editor Perhaps the best way to describe the overall performance of the rifle
team this season is tremendous improvement. In the recent Southern Conference tournament, the shooters copped 1232 of a possible 1500
points to finish in fifth place. They had been seeded seventh going into the competition. Jim Faggen led the team
with 238 of a possible 300 points. Ross McCloy followed at 253. In the Southern Invitational Regional Tournament, the Cats
went in seeded 24th and came out with an upsetting 12th place finish. “We still have a long way to
go of course,” said White. “But things are really looking good for next year.” On a national ranking basis, Capt.
Aber Waite, the team's coach, reported that the Cat triggermen would have placed 99th out of a field of 125
teams. “It may not sound that good, and I guess it really is not,” admitted White. “But it does show
a remarkable amount of improvement from the beginning of the year. It's a credit to our team.” White expressed a
need for the Cats to work on their shooting from the standing position. As a team, he called it their
overall weakest position. “I think that we ended the season on a high note and optimistic,” said White. “We will
be in good shape for a possible conference title next year if we come back shooting for all our goals
and continue to improve.”

Open Til 9:00 Every Night Lowest Prices On All Beverages ERRORITE™ BOOKSTONE reluctant to forget him.” Miller emphasized that the
admissions procedure goes “beyond the cold, hard facts such as test scores, class rank, grades, etc. They do, however, use
this procedure with all applications,” he added. Most of these teams have a very limited budget with which to work.
It is very difficult for them to compete against the subsidized teams within and outside the Southern Conference. It would
seem that in the future, this competition is going to become even stiffer. The purpose of subsequent installments in the
series will be to continue to examine the total sports picture at Davidson and at other institutions, and then to
analyze each of the present and future possibilities with regard to college athletics here. By examining all the problems of
sports here, the alternatives to these problems, and setting out the priorities of the college with regard to academics, money,
and athletics, we will hopefully be able to come to some conclusion with respect to the impending crisis in athletics.
(Next Week: A careful probing into the financial aspects of major college sports in general, with specific references to the
athletic budget at Davidson. Included will be an examination of the deficits encountered by specific sports and the possibilities for
future improvements.)

ABORTION INFORMATION An Abortion can be arranged within 24 hours, and you can return home the same day you leave.
CALL TOLL FREE (800) 523-4436 A Men’s Prof. Organization open 7 days a week. Cornelius, N. C. NEW METHOD LAUNDRY
AND CLEANING “We Rent Tux” Phone 892-8064 See Our Large Selection Of Souvenirs.

FRESHMEN — Spend your sophomore year abroad! The Asian Studies Program in Japan and the European Studies Program in Germany
combine classroom study, carefully planned field trips, extended travel, and close cultural contacts with residents of the host country. Courses
include foreign language, history, geography, political science, economics, music history and literature, philosophy, art history, sociology, and others. For further
information write or call Dr. Kermit C. King, Office of International Education, ECU, P. O. Box 2782, Greenville, N. C.
27834, Phone (919) 758-6607. Mooresville, N. C.

---
