Page Ten January 26, 1973 The Davidsonian

SIGHTING DOWNRANGE
Staff photo by Goodman
Shooter Jim Fagan sights in on the target.

Young Cat Gunners Improve Shooting, Look To Next Year
By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

Davidson's young rifle team dropped another match last weekend in Florida. Despite the loss, coach Charles Glenn was not disappointed in the showing his shooters made. The riflemen scored 60 points above their previous average while losing by 40 points. The team score is improving each week. At the beginning of the season, Davidson only had one shooter with any experience in varsity competition. Jim Fagan, who lettered on last year's team, is the best shooter. At this time, there are others who are closing fast. Fagan, a sophomore, has the highest score in competition this year with a 230 out of a possible 300 points. Glenn noted that there seemed to be a rivalry building between Fagan and another sophomore, Russ McCoy.

Paul Leads Improved Runners
By DAVID MELTON
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson track team is preparing for the upcoming winter track season with a lot of unanswered questions lingering in Coach Sterling Martin's mind. This year's team is very young and Martin added, "We're going to be hard-pressed to measure up to our usual good starts." Much of the Wildcat tracksters’ hopes could be resting on freshman Hall Paul's shoulders if it weren't for the fact that Paul is preparing for knee surgery in the near future. Martin terms Paul as possibly the "next Ray Sweetenburg," and hopes he will be ready to help the team out next year. In the sprints, the Cats will be very inexperienced. Freshmen Danny Smith, David Moore, and Larry Hill, along with sophomores Mark Connors and Tim Walker, will represent the team in the sprints.

Confident Nators Meet UNC-A Today

The Davidson swim team is looking forward to a double dual meet with Virginia Military and Washington & Lee at Lexington, Virginia, in the season’s first outing. But the young team bounced back to hand a 65-38 thrashing to Belmont Abbey's wetheads. Rusty Saylor set a school record in the 200 yd. breaststroke with a time of 2:30.6. Severn was also pleased with the overall performance of the rest of the team as well. “Generally, I felt that the entire team swam well and had a good attitude,” Severn said. Several performers have shown promise, and the team is optimistic about the upcoming meets. The meet with Augusta will also be the first home meet. Severn is optimistic about the UNC-Asheville and Johnson C. Smith meets. “We expect to take victories home from those meets, but the Emory and Augusta meets are going to be the tightest meets of the year,” he stated. “Right now I think we can take them,” Severn continued. “Our times are down and the spirit of the team is tremendous, and in my opinion, those are the most important factors in a successful team.”Martin continued, “Right now we're rebuilding in the sprints, primarily because of the loss of Sweetenburg and Tommy Richardson who graduated.” In the 440-yard dash, the Cats rest their hopes on the legs of Cannons, Phil, Chris Gomez, and Mark Pastore. Martin is counting heavily on the same group of runners. These include George Hawkins, Jack Rye, Muffler, and Otis Evans.

In the broad jump and triple jump, senior Paul Caldwell and junior Tom Case are the two best bets, while Steve Shankweiler, Glen Mee, and Jeff Diller hold the team’s hopes in the shot-put. Sophomore Woody Van Meter and senior Jim Brown will compete in the pole vault. “Barring injury, Woody should have another fine year,” stated Martin. Van Meter presently holds the college's record in the vault.

The tracksters' first meet is February 3 at Lexington, Virginia in the VMI Relays. On Feb. 5, the Cats will also be in Lexington in a three-way meet with VMI and The Citadel. The Southern Conference Indoor Track Championships will also be at VMI on Feb. 17. Although Martin concedes that the team will be “counting heavily on some young guys,” he is looking fairly optimistically to the outdoor season in the spring. Martin also would like to extend a warm welcome to any other students who would like to participate as a member of the track team.

When asked about this rivalry, McCloy replied that since the team is young and has trouble competing against many of the other schools with much success, “we all try to beat Fagan.” Freshman gunner Pete Goodman added, “Naturally everybody tries to knock off the top men.” McCloy mentioned freshman Hal Paul as doing an outstanding job. His scores in practice have steadily reached the high 250s and sometimes have been over 260.

When the rifle team has a match, they try to take six team members, if possible. Only five men are needed, but with six, the team is allowed to throw out the lowest score. Practice for the team is held like most other sports, requiring about a two-hour daily practice session. When the team started practice in early October, each member was barely reaching ten points. Now 240 seems like an easy target to reach, according to Glenn. Because the team is made up of five freshmen and four sophomores, the team’s prospects look much brighter for future years, according to Glenn. Glenn commented that he would be surprised if the team lost very many matches next year.

The rifle team will be looking for its first victory today when they travel to Clemson. They lost to Clemson in the first match of this season but will show Clemson a much-improved team, according to Glenn. Glenn looks to this match optimistically and says this could be the team’s first win of the year.

The Red Hanger and UCK’s Elephant Barn
113 N. Main
892-7561