Ten October 26, 1973 The Davidsonian

Grim’s Revered By Midnight Riders

By MARK DEATON Managing Editor

For years, confirmed Davidson procrastinators dedicated to working through the wee hours of the morning curtly close their books, drop their pens, desert the scattered pages of their half-finished term papers, and rally around a Volkswagen in the parking lot. Doors readily swing open and somehow manage to close despite having admitted five passengers into the back seat. The Grim’s Run is on.

A caravan of hungry students speed out of Mecklenburg County, accelerate into Iredell, elude the Mount Mourne Police, sneak through six Mooresville traffic lights, and pull up to the curb opposite the Mooresville Police Station. Small car economy engines cease their muffled six-cylinder mutterings. Doors slam.

An unostentatious white building, its dimly lit shop quietly assuming its place behind the cursive gold neon ‘tasty cakes’ and ‘golden crust bread’ signs on the windows, is suddenly filled with the clamoring crowds of students on their study breaks. A sign in the window reminds customers to serve bread at every meal. Feet shuffle over a strange design of green, ochre, scuffed red, and black floor tiles as the students wait for the Grim Baker to appear from the back of his bakery.

Soon, stern grey eyes peer through dark-rimmed glasses, scrutinizing the noise makers who have turned the quiet shop into a busy marketplace. A Bic pen is drawn from the pocket of a white shirt partially covered by a full-length apron, and an authoritative voice mixed with mirth and anger asks, “How many want doughnuts?”

“Got any hot ones?” asks the regular customer.

“Oh sure, they’re hot.”

Various responses of two to a dozen emanate from the crowd. A handful of small brown paper bags emerge from under the counter, and the Grim Baker retreats to his back room. Seconds later, the short man, laden with bags of doughnuts, returns to his shop through a door marked ‘Employees Only.’

“Now who's first?”

The student pushed in front of the counter timidly meets the gaze of the Grim Baker.

“Now what else?”

“Uhh, give me two chocolate eclairs and an orange.”

The Grim Baker bends to reach the eclairs from the display counter separating him from the customers. Quickly moving to the large glass-windowed refrigerator, the Grim Baker picks up a pint carton of Meadowland orange drink and hurries back to the counter.

“No, I wanted a bottle of orange juice,” an embarrassed but irritated voice reluctantly admits.

The baker frowns at the liberally educated student who hasn't sufficiently mastered the Grim's lingo to ask for “one orange juice, open.” The refrigerator door slides open. The untouched carton is replaced and the orange juice bottle grasped. Clunk, pop, the bottle is opened, and hurrying feet clop back to the counter as the cap rattles on the floor.

“What else?”

“That's all.”

The scribbling Bic pen whispers on the newsprint pad. “That'll be 93 cents.”

A dollar bill quickly passes over the counter, and the back of a white shirt collar overlapped by apron strings is exposed as the cash register drawer opens and a hand promptly grabs seven pennies while the other hand pushes the drawer shut. The brown bag is already splotched with dark brown stain, indubitably attesting that the hot, just-fried Grim’s dunkers contained within are working their way through the brown paper.

Finally, the shop is empty of customers. The Grim Baker disappears to the back room. Students return to their cars. Keys turn in ignitions, doors meekly close behind filled hands andstomachs. The after-taste of greasy doughnuts is easily washed down with the purchased milk, lemonade, fruit drinks, chocolate milk, but there is no relief for the cast iron lumps in cramped stomachs as the unexplainable and amazing transformation of doughnuts into dead weight hits the travelers about the time they reach the fourth Mooresville traffic light. With the Grim’s Run anticipation destroyed, the return trip is made in gloomy silence except for the unfriendly growling tones of upset stomachs. Recollections of a long night of work left on the desk painfully reassert themselves. The walk back to the dorms from the tennis courts is accompanied by various curses as the previous parking space has already been taken. Students vow that they will never procrastinate with their studies like this again. They swear they'll never need to make the Grim’s Run again. However — Traditions like the Grim’s Run are not made of such.

The Grim’s Run

Baker Traded Mining Coal To Begin Rolling In Dough
By MARK DEATON and LARRY MIMMS

A twisted tube of yellow fluorescent light forms the advertisement “Golden Crust Bread” in the window of the Mooresville Bakery. Two thin vertical mirrors flanking the cash register on the inside wall reflect the amber image of cold students arriving for a hot doughnut at a chilly 2 in the morning. The door squeaks and groans as the cold Mooresville air pushes itself into the shop. Students are caught in the crossfire of bakery aroma pushing the cold air back through the door. A porcelain Howdy Doody head with a laughing jester’s countenance is perched on a tall wooden cabinet behind the display counter. R. C. Powers, the Grim Baker, fills six orders, and the shop door closes, leaving the baker alone. But the Mooresville Bakery is by no means a one-man operation. “It’s a family affair,” said Powers. “Mrs. Powers takes the day shift, and I take nights,” he explained. “My daughter Katherine works here with me too, and Dud Robbins, back there making cinnamon rolls now, is my wife's first cousin.”

Through the door to the mixing and making areas, Robbins, the hunched back baker, leans over a long, low table, reading scales with flour-covered lead weights. Robbins, who has been baking for 35 years, indicated that he used to work the coal mines at Cabin Creek, 32 miles from Charleston, West Virginia. “Got tired of mining. Could have got killed. Baking’s much more interesting,” he explained. After pouring his weighed ingredients into a mixing bowl, Robbins shuffles to the refrigerator, a wooden room entered through a latched door which opens grudgingly. Moving to a huge batter bowl, he dumps the lard into a mixture of other ingredients. A giant blade rotates slowly and noisily, transforming the white powders into a small gob of dough for a few dozen cookies. Silently moving to a large baking oven, he opens the monstrous furnace, inserts a pan of dough, and removes another. A wave of heat escapes from its black bowels. He walks past a square white roof support on which a clipboard of 1920 recipes yellows. He grabs a spatula from a collection of kitchen utensils hanging on the column and scrapes cookie dough from a pan. Returning to the weighing table, he disappears in a cloud of smoke rising from a scoop of flour into the scales. Fluorescent light filters through the settling particles.