Page Six September 21, 1973 The Davidsonian

Gridders Seek Offense, Battle Bears Tomorrow

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Having gone through the first two football games with no points and, as one might expect, no offense, the Davidson
Wildcats will attempt to mount some facsimile to an offensive gridiron team Saturday afternoon as they entertain the Bears of
Lenoir Rhyne.

“This Lenoir Rhyne club is one of the best small college football teams I have seen in quite some time,”
commented Davidson head coach Dave Fagg. In their only contest thus far, the Bears edged Wofford by a score of
31-29. It was the same Terrier club which smashed the Cats 23-0 the week before.

“The Bears are pretty much the same team that beat us last year,” noted Fagg. With this in mind, the
outlook for Saturday is anything but bright. The Bears will rely heavily on tailback Scott Crawford. The freshman runner was
called on 14 times to carry the ball against Wofford and whipped through the defense for 174 yards and a
12.1 yard rushing average. Playing mainly a running game, the Carolinas Conference school picked up 320 yards in total offense.
Their rushing average is 6.2 yards per carry. The Cats have been allowing about 4.2 yards per carry through the
first two contests. But Fagg feels the defense has been doing a good job, despite the high point totals.

“Defensively we have been doing pretty well,” Fagg mused as he pondered the statistics. “It is just a matter of
how long we can hold out. The offense has been leaving the defenders under too much pressure.” Such has been
the story of the first two games. Unless the Cat offense can get started, then the outlook for their upcoming
games remains very dim.

With Dave Ingold, the senior running back from High Point, out for the Saturday game with an injury, the Cat
running attack will be somewhat minimized. The offensive line will need to give quarterback David Harper more protection than he
has received during the past games.

“We have had trouble giving him (Harper) protection,” explained Fagg. “It is really difficult for a young quarterback when you
don’t get the protection you need.” Fagg sees the game as a chance for the Cats to break out of
their definite slump. He feels the team has “to work our way out of it.”

“We are not discouraged and I don’t expect anyone else to be,” Fagg continued. “Right now, I could not be
more enthusiastic.”

Two things, then, are going to be essential for the Cats to compete on somewhere near the same level with
the Bears tomorrow.

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Davidson absorbed a 42-0 shutout at the hands of a powerful Richmond team last Saturday, marking the first time a
Davidson football team has been shutout in two consecutive games since 1964. The Cats were physically overrun by a much
stronger and experienced team led by all Southern Conference fullback and All American contender Barty Smith. Smith, rated as the
eighth best college football player in the nation this year, picked up 109 yards in 21 attempts against the Cats.
In contrast, the Davidson total for all rushers netted minus 15 yards.

“It’s frustrating to go out there and lose as badly as we did,” commented coach Dave.

Davidson Falls Victim To Rugged Duke Club

By BRANT BILLS
Staff Writer

The Club Team plays Central Piedmont Community College, the area favorite, on Saturday at Charlotte Catholic. Kick-off time is set
for 4:30 p.m.

Davidson’s Club football lost its opening game 6-2 to Duke last Sunday. The two-point safety for the Davidson Red Men
in the opening period looked as if to be the only score until Duke converted a Red Man fumble into
the winning touchdown late in the third quarter. Davidson's defense made the only score for the Red Men as tackle
Rick Houdy got to the Duke passer in the end zone for a safety. Duke had fumbled Bill DuPont’s first
punt of the day and it was recovered by end Eric Sharling on the Duke 19-yard line. The offense was
unable to move the ball from there as they were a yard shy of a first down after the fourth
down try. Two plays later, Houdy broke through and caught the Duke quarterback as he rolled out to his right
to throw a pass. From there on through the third quarter, a war was raged between the 30’s with neither
offensive unit looking very sharp.

“We were only one deep on the offensive..."Line and they got plenty tired," stated player-coach Sharling. "Many substitutes were defensive
players who were fresh from being three deep, but they didn’t know the plays or the cadence. The backfield needed
obvious coordination also as their timing was off most of the time. But the defense looked extremely well-prepared, getting fine
performances from linebacker Frank McShane and Houdy, and timely interceptions from Will Bradford, Bill Lloyd, and Carlyle Sherrill.

First, the defense is going to have to stop Crawford and a good Lenoir Rhyne running attack. From the first
two games, it seems that this is possible. The Cat defenders have the capability if they can manage to get
off the field some during the game. Second, mistakes have to be cut to a minimal amount. The Cats have
turned the ball over 10 times in the first two games, six on interceptions and four on fumbles. There have
also been too many unnecessary penalties, such as the ones for too many men on the field. If these two
factors can be lessened and the offense can begin to generate to some extent, then Fagg’s enthusiasm may prove somewhat
warranted. Offensively, the Cats will again rely heavily on Walt Walker, the All-American flanker who has caught 16 passes in
the first two games.

Trounce Cats By Fagg," especially when we're better than that. I really believe that we're better than that offensively."

Davidson’s defense turned in another creditable performance Saturday for three quarters of the game. Richmond, ranked as one of the
three strongest teams in the Southern Conference this year, led 21-0 going into the fourth quarter, having run 72 plays
in the first three periods. "I thought we played a good defensive game until the fourth quarter," Fagg said. "After
that, they just wore us down." Fagg praised Ronnie Hamilton, George Weicker, Alan Schaberg, Mike Eubanks, and Eddie Williamson for
their defensive efforts. Williamson led the Cat defenders with ten individual tackles and seven assists. "I was impressed with both
Williamson and Hamilton," commented Spider coach Frank Jones after the game. "They may not be that big, but they really
came on out there."

Fagg noted that several sophomores, notably Pete West, Ben Hedricks, Jose, and Larry Hardaway, have been impressive thus far and
should receive more playing time in the future. Following the game, Richmond coach Jones backed up Fagg’s move, saying, "They
have a lot of young players who don’t have enough experience, but they're learning. I think that Dave Fagg has
done an outstanding job with his teams over the last several years." Fagg commented after the game, "We have got
to be more consistent and get it all together. But I’m not going to give up, and I don’t think
the men on this team are either."

Offensively, Davidson fared worse than they did against Wofford the week before. Dave Harper completed 15 of 34 pass attempts
for 128 yards, while Richmond completed 8 of 21 for 167 yards. Harper was also dropped eight times while attempting
to pass for a loss of 56 yards. There were some bright spots for the Cats. Walt Walker caught ten
passes, giving him a two-game total of 16 receptions. An almost sure touchdown pass to Walker in the third quarter
was thwarted when a Richmond defender jostled him on a close decision. "We didn’t double team Walker at all; instead,
we worked all week on our pass rush, getting to the quarterback before he threw the ball," Jones noted after
the game. Jones’s strategy paid off as the Spider defense stopped Davidson cold, forcing five turnovers. "Our defense kept us
in the game," said Richmond quarterback Harry Knight.

Friday, Sept. 21, 8 and 10 P.M. Mon. - Fri. 9 - 5:30 October 6. D.C. Pop Films Presents THE
WILD BUNCH Rated R THE HUB OPEN: Bashfuls Ltd. proudly announces a September showing of drawings by Helen Abernathy, on
display through Hours 9:30 - 5:30 Monday through Saturday Upstairs 115 North Main Street Davidson, N.C. (Staff photo by Goodin
on "WE MUST STOP MEETING LIKE THIS") Runner John Webel tries to break free from a tackler. 42-0

"A lot of people are complaining about the fact that we haven’t scored in two games," commented Fagg. "I don’t
think they realize what a young team we have. There are only seniors in our starting offense." Fagg, however, maintained
that he would stick to the same lineup for the time being. "We've got fewer players than anytime since 1965
right now, and I’m going to stay with them," he said.

Adm. $1.00 Door Prize at Each Show Sat. 9-7
