Page Six February 9, 1973 The Davidsonian

VIENNA CHOIR BOYS (Photo by News Service)

Davidson Male Chorus to enchant Eastern States.

General Practice
By MIRE TANNER
Managing Editor

In the past weeks, the college infirmary has become a place of fellowship twice daily as students gather for relief
from a wide variety of flu symptoms. The question though, and one that many ask themselves as they drag toward
the building, is who exactly is going to be there. College Physician William Davis is no longer with us and
his absence now is common knowledge, but what about the man who has assumed his duties as college physician?

Charles Marshall, M.D., a Davidson graduate, class of '65, has returned for a brief experience in general practice before continuing
his specialization. Marshall, who is a graduate of the Medical University of South Carolina, described his reasons for taking his
present position as a desire to see the life and work of a general practitioner more so than a willingness
to become one.

Chorus Makes Spring Circuit
By JAMIE KOLODITCH
Staff Writer

The Davidson Male Chorus, under the direction of Donald B. Plott, will head northward for a six-day tour during spring
break. The thirty-six members of the chorus will tour six cities in six days: Richmond, Washington, Wilmington, New York, Philadelphia,
and Culpepper, Va.

"We try to vary the menu and cover different periods," Plott says of the music to be performed in the
concerts. "The music is basically work originally composed for male chorus, though some transcribed works meant for mixed groups are
also used." The composers whose works are emphasized by the chorus are representative of the diversity of the program. Selections
from Schubert and Brahms, a Renaissance group, and folk-oriented pieces are the mainstay of the bill.

The appearances of the chorus are arranged in various ways. Some are by invitation, some are tied in with alumni
meetings, according to Plott. The Davidson Male Chorus has been very successful through the years, Plott continued, because of the
availability of talented students who are interested in carrying on the tradition. The group right now is composed mostly of
younger students, with few seniors, the future is bright, he said.

"Freshman classes are important," noted Plott. "They have been fruitful. As long as this continues, the chorus will remain laudable."

LA Poet-Playwright Presents

Others come from personal contacts by members of the chorus who live in the particular cities involved, while...

Bittersweet (Continued From Page 5)

...trustees and the president three years ago is given a chance to work. We need to face the fact that
you don't implement coeducation simply by clearing two floors of Little Dormitory, cleaning up the bathrooms, and putting 50 women
there. For Davidson to become a truly coeducational institution, more change than that is necessary. We need a new Union
almost as much as we need a new dormitory.

We need some honest talk about academic standards at Davidson. I am uneasy over the frequency with which blame for
the alleged decline of these standards is placed on students’ shoulders. After all, other people set admissions policy, devise the
curriculum, determine the educational policy, and improvise the college budget. Perhaps that is how it should be (I am certainly
not arguing for student supervision of any of those areas) — but then, let the blame fall on those with
the power to rectify the situation.

We need an evaluation of the premedical program. My hand trembles as I write these blasphemous words, but I suspect
that Davidson is turning out aspiring doctors who have succeeded in avoiding a liberal arts education in their four years
at Davidson. It is hardly a phenomenon confined to the Martin and Dana Buildings—but nowhere else are some courses more
scrupulously avoided, and other courses more fervently sought, than by our premeds, caught in the med school grade-point trap.

Those are enough headaches for one year. Who will take the initiative in responding to those problems? I am not
sure. Of one thing, however, I am quite sure, and that is that things aren’t going to get a whole
lot better for students around here until we start learning to care about something more than getting into Bowman Grey
Medical School or Chapel Hill Law School. Until we as students stop looking at Davidson...Primarily as a means—as a prep
school, of sorts—to the time-honored end of graduate school admission, things aren't going to change very much. We just won't
have the time. I don't want to end on such a sour note. I have had the privilege of working
with many fine men and women in the faculty, administration, and student body this past year. On the whole, I
have been impressed with what I have seen of Davidson in the past year. I have many people to thank,
and a lot of fences to mend. That should keep me occupied until June.

Dramatic Two-Hour Reading
By VAL VAN HORN
Asst. Features Editor

He stands in the center of the enclosed room, people scattered in chairs and clustered at his feet. There is
no quiet, lyrical introduction to the black poet and playwright from Los Angeles, all is still. Then suddenly he cries
that he is the devil. The poet continues haranguing the spectators about his identity and multi-identities, growing louder and more
certain with his claims until one finds himself wondering if it really is Satan. Sensing this, the convincing, mocking flow
stops. The man informs his people that they have just heard the prologue of “Tambourines to Glory" by Langston Hughes.
He is indeed Tommy Scott Young, who appeared at Lingle Manor on February 6.

Young presented a two-hour poetry reading on love, drugs, reflections of mankind, politics, and sound. His presentation was dramatic, centered
on bombastic vocal and histrionic talent softened with song, chanting, and quiet lyrics. All the work was original, with the
exception of “Tambourines to Glory,” two poems by K. Curtis Lyle, one poem by Luther Keys, and a scene from
Ossie Davis’ “Purlie Victorious.”

Young's love poetry was mostly soft grass-root, with a minimum of theatrics. Perhaps the most poignant was “Black Day,” written
about a girl he worked with in Los Angeles. His drug poems started with “Lonely World,” which was a combination
song-chant. His voice sounded as a primitive choirboy's, lifting in its plaintive mourning. Three of his six drug poems were
powerfully done, with Young bombarding his listeners with shells of cries, ricocheting from the walls and ceiling to the eardrums.
The rest of his poems were a mixture of truths, defiance, cries to his brothers to unite, and an occasional
rough beauty.

Tempers Physician

The medicine man of the college, inasmuch as his primary concern is in the Davidson-Cornelius community, Marshall, who after his
residency at the Medical College of Virginia, spent the year of 1971 as an Army surgeon in Vietnam, emphasized the
importance of the role of the family doctor in an age of increased specialization in medical education and practice.

“Before moving into Bill Davis’ office, I had no idea that the GP faces the problems that he does, in
terms of both facilities and the number of patients that he sees,” he said. According to Marshall, the family doctor
practices what could best be described as ‘old style medicine,’ the care of a physician for his patients and interest
in them, often without the aid of much of what modern medical technology has to offer. “Usually, simply because of
the location or because of limited time, the GP has at his disposal his head, his hands, and his insight
and that’s it,” he pointed out.

“I think the controversy going on now in medical schools over general medical education as opposed to the extremely specialized
one is significant: the type of men who will become doctors in the future, the variety of their abilities, and
the number of capacities in which they will be able to serve will depend very much on the outcome of
this question,” Marshall said. “Too few men these days know what the career of the small-town doctor is like and
too few are thus able to respect them for the sacrifices that they make and which I am now coming
to realize,” he continued. “That's why I'm here. I think that anyone who now is vaguely considering medicine should examine
this angle of the profession if he wants to see it for what it truly is.”

Marshall will remain until July of 1974 when he will return to the Medical College of Virginia for specialization in
ophthalmology.

NEW BANNER

A ground view of the new North Carolina Flag.
