Page Eight March 30, 1973 Sidelines

WITH SC Captures Four Places in Top Twenty

In a recent edition of Basketball’s Basement, Cornell took first place as the worst team in the nation, edging the Mountaineers of Appalachian State. Also representing the Southern Conference in the top five was VMI, which claimed the number four spot. Richmond put on a season-ending rally to cop the seventeenth position over The Citadel. The Bulldogs were one spot behind the Spiders. So four of the eight Southern teams got bids in the nation’s top twenty...even if it was for the worst twenty.

A Timely Win

Every year the Davidson sailing team races the Lake Norman Yacht Club in a head-to-head battle for supremacy of the nearby waters of Lake Norman. Going into last Saturday's match, the LNYC held a powerful four-year winning streak. Now their streak is a thing of the past. The match is based on the lowest score accumulated by a team during the seven races. Each team enters four boats and points are awarded on the basis of what position the boats finish. The regatta lasted only two races, however. A slight problem arose. It is known as the wind. With Davidson in the lead, the match was terminated because of a lack of wind. Davidson was awarded the Perpetual Trophy.

The Coach: A Tale Of Irony

Hallam Walker heads up the sailing team. Surely he was pleased with the win. But he is also the commodore for the Lake Norman Yacht Club. It seems he found the way to be both a winner and a loser. Perhaps he would see it as a system in which he cannot lose. He has a point. Soon he will receive the accustomed dunking of the coach in the water after a team's victory. He may be the first coach to ever lose and still see the privilege of the victory dunking. There may even be a little more water this time, just to rub it in some more.

Spoils Of Victory

Just this week the sailors encountered a slight problem. John Guthrie smashed into Jim Stevenson’s craft, ripping the fiberglass deck from the bow. It put the boat out of commission for quite some time. It is just another spoil that winners encounter.

Lack Of Money

The boat will remain inoperable for a while, due to a shortage of funds supplied to the seamen. It is unfortunate that winners do not even have the money to keep their equipment in shape.

892-8468 tastee-freez of Cornelius BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET “It’s Incomparable” Sandwiches — Pizza Sundaes 50 FLAVOR SHAKES

Weaver

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE Sports Editor

“We have to be very happy at this point of the season,” said Davidson tennis coach Jeff Frank. “We have had some tough matches and come through them very well.” Following a win over MIT yesterday, the Wildcats have jumped to a 10-1 mark for the season. Their only loss came at the hands of nationally-ranked UNC. “We are shooting for the number one seeding at the conference meet,” said the 28-year-old Davidson graduate. David Weaver is pacing the way for the Cats thus far. Playing in the number one seed, he has amassed a strong record to date. “Weaver is playing real well,” said Frank. “Twoof the guys he recently played are very strong. He had to play a good game to beat them. I think he is almost up to the form of when he won the singles title last year.” After the match against Amherst Tuesday, Weaver had a 7-2 record. Kevin Menton is providing strong play at the second position. He has compiled a 6-4 mark thus far. Frank emphasized that there were two good indicators for the team as a whole thus far. “First, we are real tough in a close match,” he commented. “The only three-set losses we have suffered were to UNC. This means that we play very well under pressure.”

“The second key is that we are very physical since we can play so well in long matches,” he said. “These two keys are very important to a coach,” he continued. “They let me know that we can be up for our matches and that we can play well under most conditions. That is very important.” Frank said he thought the team was getting better as each match is played. “The win over Penn State was the biggest one so far,” he explained. “They had just beaten Appalachian State on their home courts." Appalachian is one of the top contenders for the conference crown this year. “Penn won by sweeping the doubles against the Mountaineers,” Frank said. “We beat them 6-3, as we won five singles and one of the doubles.”

Frank said that the doubles combination of Weaver and Maarten Ruys was a “super doubles team.” They have an 8-1 record, as of the Amherst match. “Bill Allen and Menton are the toughest at the number two doubles, but they have not played together that much,” Frank commented. “They will improve.” The next doubles slot is the one that will give the Cats problems. “We just are not getting very satisfactory play from any team at the third place yet,” said Frank. “But there are a lot of possibilities and I will try to find the best one.”

Allen has an 8-2 record at the number three singles spot, following the match with Amherst. Ruys follows him at the fourth slot with a 9-1 mark. Hi Lankenau and Rick Quinby nail down the last two seeds with 8-1 and 9-1 slates, respectively. “We have had some bad weather when our schedule has permitted us a day off,” insisted Frank. “We will have more time to work later as we play a more spread-out campaign.”

ABORTION INFORMATION
An abortion can be arranged within 24 hours and you can return home the same day you leave!
CALL TOLL FREE (800) 523-4436
A Men Prom 7 Geys o wom 10 - 9 P. M.

Sparks Netters To 10-1 Season Record
(Staff photo by Goodman)
IT’S A SMASH
Ricky Quinby fires an overhead return.

Rent Furniture From Me TROLEASE

IKE & TINA TURNER’S REVUE
-PLUS-
BILL DEAL AND THE RHONDELLS
APRIL 8, 1973 8:15 P.M.
CATAWBA COLLEGE GOODMAN GYMNASIUM
SALISBURY, N.C.
TICKETS: $4.00 — ADVANCE $5.00 AT THE DOOR

———MAIL ORDER FORM———
TO: College-Community Centre
Salisbury, N.C. 28144
Please send me the following tickets for Ike & Tina Turner's Revue.
Tickets at $4.00 each —
Please make check or money order payable to Catawba College