Fur Corner BE. LEE Sie Davidson Alternatives Lacking in Placement Program = » FR BL FAAS YS awa ke DN Setar “0 leuae oe ic i owt 10 fe . ¢ 1 oe * TR +t rere Tt coe Oneal WA ale Jeoulre Ho e> Tey 4h faye NA vee sg Te te wl fees OF TLD wir jeer Wo Tete Taye be pire road 2. en a ar EO rt Tu: mot fee : Dead 2 Sites BJ ve ito tr wT Lt pid eS call oe, BBD 2 Dae ot Wet Ieee te Tha WIT Pool 2. deetth: CUP 2U ml puis Be Tile CURR OWT Ur i oa a SOLS OS 5s Ud CD Se et e te t TK CUe a en ot oe SE ae Te ee ee et w - 3 het WU ET pb octun Sun te ae Summer = paemares 2 Tie eps UL “Suv SMUG uo te dose te Paacetmer Sruped. Sut Tet pul CUI ie & Bt peer. DUTIES WIL Oe Sune: Se Tie wot tat Sele crete: suet Me Tet le Bi met ct Fer De Sere ES. ve eee tO let be fs a Sette reer ot ee cthepe Une enc BugeT ac- wy @recur are « ree Wiha 5 gr wm 2m eI VIS peweTeE TT GE te trecur 0 Site CorBecE gut fect gf rude eas hate" Seat orvlessor % Dew 2st tec: of Sree Slut et Laer eres ett gum > Beton pressor oul Pro cucuga ac Sreenwor f ome NOT F eeran nis, Lave Se pee CEReCts ant eeperiens 4 te of Bree nein up ne Pate Progra Via TRG nn ee wie ge AE ‘ = 4 wee ~ ” tee - ’ bite. BROTHER 2h 2 - 7 SPDV we ae aot Wren er 2 MEN eat: SUTae.: GRO NTT ete ot a cr ed ae oP TOL Stet Time bot Bl Tee Da tts a cr SLUT: Sette Tuy Tet athe a Bee eT BV oa aT Tu, ag lab TTT eet wee Lad Oe eet er et eee Lie 2 we » & mlas Tat ac wv lag RT Tt Lu adus.-$ SUTTON Wl PIs Sum ThO™> be.tt Cl) TInt UE RAT Stem cr tw Leas Be ME Be TTR Tete tet eR ST QnA Soe SUET. Minti perhone - EVE St WILE SBI SHOT a: wr ime Sena Paaceme Se 127A OU Steet 0 60Owme Oe Lees: zu doverionms The Strader 2 < SSMU RE UE TEN Oe ne Se Sere vpparmaiass “Dr Eng tee zl See co. Speagre (0 te ver 1905 represses a g25¢ thet ime -éegi ‘etereu. Pragre> wuysic tave 2 peter que Fee geet wit ao. vier aoe gut wuyoks te cre I Ieee Ce Te pete wiev= stage Wyat uETe Ser atest uc re PETS. Were SUpeT OL. {he. lne cuuegee suul wil mise <¢ Pizceme: Progrem comtemng i permanem 306 puecemernn 2 grata schon puetement 2 cere senace 40 Cee eferztivie ent i extenges Sates I ecis PIS serviig tae Sommers Seat Src Sage Elect et Weegee try perpie 37a Sle. eis 2.4253 Deen te erge yf ese DUETETE zc Council By MAPK WILENSKY Aeel. Meragings Eiier OST Ea RESID Tae Te LUO Geet Up slates are ee. ET Le UE ToT fp rewire of me Cougs Gores ners Prep at oe mes eonsied : a eis fur oe yer Cmte Craze. mes ee tell, eT. as é ShpQue CRILM tiee e.must WP) GT tates. fects fat Stade. TTHETT EE TS Tre Guweernenmy Reguis tore orn ame for cue Suoses: Ce LI Court Bs ime bun the euthurns w reourmend emer Gmenis WwW the son-ccedemic mGet of the college Arend. Tes Propyses be te Comduct Csmeil go directis io the The President mz fees Chee Ws eTUneT prt tne Counc: emens- mrert mis effect. or d he feck WIT. that the armendmem ' in con. Teventye. of trusice port, fe ma. Ss end WRT ETL tH tise amendrient fencing aciys. ues a it ‘by the Beerd of Trustees within Jodevs ii the trustees Coo Bot act e R “pperc_est | Suettis Wht efe OO mecmnecs of he S3GET: Senete ene ere ctected r une SGA Tht jecuity vets are for ta Sets seco and expire et Tee DAT Professars Gere Poe. Paumer Kemp. Nutt. Path eng Wont Wines Ward. Suepner. Vinee Rac end Juhe Deck whe members representing we eas a Classes Bo Prooips. Bot Caries © Snea Smith end Wil Term ere memters due ic the hes they aolc Students Dar. Henéersm enc Bol McRwem eeoTe ejected on the recent SGA rant! elects Terr. expresiet the feer ine: views Regulations Suauil ie Due eo e Loe Polke De 2 NT Te a 2 Ve PTT tug "1 Te *e? TES 2 rote owe i ioere ed wee "1s ve rene gta Koy Tatlie lus se bouD Cee Te Zt e bee gh noe ae ne ne Tagen oT Ue TL ge Ne per Sd Ps 2a a Vie out ve TE DE TY e Tesh ows SET BRUT PLT oe poo Tea eT OTese ceil Se: EAA kin. ee MEREDITH HALL. Davidson's campus Psychiatrist is available on Tuesdays and Thursdays for conferences or for those who just want to talk. Hall Encourages Fresh Image Of Davidson's Psychiatrist & JIM PAULSEN

Come to see. They are trying to find out more about themselves. Hall serves as a great resource for students experiencing emotional concerns. The office is open for appointments on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Hall will see anyone who wishes for an appointment. He stated that students are present with a list of issues, but most of the time they just want to talk.

Hall emphasized that the group has met several times and really set a precedent. This group will establish a precedent for the next year of students. Hall gives his best efforts to secure the organization of groups such as the CIA, FBI, and the Armed Services Investigation Bureau. Hall mentioned that actions taken by the Conduct Council are presently at the request of the Honor Council. The Council's purpose is to review and suggest amendments and recommendations for changes of Conduct Council procedures. These must be brought to the Board of Students or a Council member. The first scheduled meeting is sometime this term. Future meetings are scheduled with at least one per term.

Dr. Hall said: Although students are usually nervous when they first come, it is really good to talk with someone and to help to broaden their self-awareness, view options, and recognize limitations. Hall pointed out that society has tended to view someone seeking professional help as an individual who is falling apart or who is going to pieces, but this is not true. "I want to get away from the image that I am treating a mind sickness. All of us experience a sense of being deeply unhappy at some time and it is a disservice for people who are older to say they have got it all together," said Hall.

As well as working with people who are seeking to understand themselves, Hall has spent some time working with SGA senators dealing with their sensitivities and concerns. One of the questions that Hall is frequently asked is what are the unique problems of students at Davidson College. He stressed that the problems of Davidson are not unique. "One problem that people frequently bring to my attention is the competition at Davidson. Some feel that they are judged by how knowledgeable they are, and that a person becomes more valuable the more knowledgeable he is," said Hall. Although more competition exists at Davidson than at some campuses, Hall explained that this competition is present to lesser or greater degrees on other colleges.

Another concern that Hall recognizes is the need for a personal relationship between instructors and students beyond the intellectual exchange. This also is not a problem unique to Davidson. Hall feels there are a number of people here who care about the students as people, but he feels there is room for improvement in this, and in relations between administrators, faculty, and students. "There is a lack of willingness among Davidson people to compliment each other, both among students, faculty, and administrators. This may be part of the dominant male attitude that you don’t tell people you really like them," said Hall. "I don't just look at Davidson as a pathological situation. It is really a pretty place to come and walk around."

Atomic Issue Examined By BONNIE HENESY Staff Writer

Three showings of the recently made British documentary, “How Safe Are America’s Atomic Power Plants?”, will be shown in the Morrison Room today at 10, 2, and 4 pm. This 26-minute film examines the serious controversy surrounding the health and safety issues of building large untested atomic power plants near major population centers in the Carolinas. Following each showing, Rick Sandler, Ralph Nader's former nuclear energy consultant, will be available to answer questions and speak about the National Moratorium Petition effort and lobbying Congress.

There will be 21 reactors in North Carolina by the early 1980s, including two giant reactors on Lake Norman, the McGuire Station near Huntersville, 17 miles north of Charlotte, and two more at the Catawba Nuclear Station on Lake Wylie. In addition, there will be approximately three deadly shipments daily of atomic wastes being transported through the Carolinas on I-77, I-85, and I-95 en route to Aiken, SC for reprocessing. A radiation victim center is being planned for the Charlotte Memorial Hospital and major evacuation plans in case of a nuclear accident. If you would like to learn more about this situation, how it affects you, and what you can do, be sure to make one of the showings this afternoon.