Stone Appointed Soccer Coach, Team Unhappy With Decision

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

The announcement of Chip Stone as soccer coach for next year has already sparked dissatisfaction among team members. The team
has been without a coach since the late Harry Fogleman's resignation at the end of last season. The major point
of dissension raised by the players is that the administration has had more than ample time to find a full-time
qualified coach.

Stone himself is looking forward to the job next year and is optimistic as far as the team's future is
concerned. “In a way you could say I volunteered for the job,” said Stone. “After I talked with Dr. Bevan
and Dr. Scott about the situation several weeks ago, I felt that the team had to have a coach by
the end of the year,” Stone continued.

Stone plans to work the team harder in practice and to run several different drills, but he does not envision
any sweeping changes in the overall soccer program. “I think we'll have a lot more game-type situation drills in practice,”
Stone said. “I saw the team practice a few times and watched all their games. I even reffed a few
of them, and I noticed that there were several times when they waited too long for the perfect shot,” he
continued. “I think this is where the drills could help. They'd teach the guys to make quicker decisions,” Stone added.
He feels that this aspect could make a difference for the team next year. “With the talent we've got, there's
no reason why they can't score from 35 to 40 yards out,” Stone said.

Stone added that a more serious attitude and several good freshmen could turn the team into a solid contender for
the Southern Conference championship next year. “The administration's delay in hiring a soccer coach for next fall has seriously hindered
any improvement that the team might have made through the recruiting of any incoming freshmen," Tom Tornee stated. “From the
winter term on, no one on the team has been sure about any aspect of the team's future,” Tornee added.

Another point of contention raised by Tornee is Stone's availability as a coach next fall. Stone is currently in charge
of the physical education program and admitted that he will not be able to devote his full time to the
program.

Tew Hurls 4-1 Win, Cats Hit 6-2 Mark

By PETE WEST
Staff Writer

“This year’s team is just that, a team. We're playing as a group this year, and it makes all the
difference in the world,” relief pitcher Frank Folger said. “In the past we have had the team, but not the
attitude. This year we have both,” he continued. The team’s record, 6-2 and 1-1 in conference play, would seem to
bear out Folger's assessment.

On Monday, the Wildcats split a double-header with conference rival William and Mary, winning the first game 4-1 behind the
strong pitching of freshman Joel Tew, and losing the second game 3-0 on a last-inning Indian rally. In the second
game, Cat starter Dwight Plemmons had a two-hitter going into the last inning, when the Indians rallied for three runs
to give Plemmons his first loss.

Whereas pitching seemed to be a weakness of last year's team, it seems to be a strength this year. The
staff is led by freshman Joel Tew, who has compiled a 3-0 record thus far. He has also come up
with the big hit on several occasions. Plemmons is 2-1 now, and the third starter, Joe Duncan, is now 1-1.
When the sore arms of pitchers Ross Manire and Marshall Case become well, it will add much depth to the
staff.

The home run has been added to this year’s offensive arsenal as Mark Rodgman has already hit two, and last
year’s Southern Conference batting champ George Weicker one. The defense is also much improved over that in past years. The
infield of Dave Ingold, Gary Pomeroy, Bobby Clayton, and Lynn Wagner have already recorded six double plays, a thing which
has occurred with little regularity in the teams of past years. The outfield of Weicker, Jack Willits, and Bill Todd,
having committed few errors this year, give much credit to assistant Pete Celentano. “He's one of those guys that you
can't do without. He's done a great job on the field and off,” Weicker commented. Weicker went on to say
that if theteam continued to play as they are now, they would have a good shot at the conference title
and the District II playoffs. "We'll win the conference if we keep playing our best. The team is loose and
is really attacking the ball at the plate." The team is in a good position right now. And if the
sore arms of Manire and Case come around, then the Cats will be in a great position to take the
conference.

Free Placement NYC
Free Preg Test
Medicaid Accepted
CALL 212-595-4220
Controlled Parenthood
Suite 55
200 W. 72nd St.
N.Y.C., N.Y.
Safe; Low-Cost; Confidential
Non-Profit Organization

"I've got a pretty full schedule right now but I feel that I'll be able to devote three to four
hours a day to the team," Stone said. "Of course, there will be times when I'm caught in a bind,
but I think the team will be able to help me out," Stone added.

Tornee feels that a part-time coach cannot do justice to the potential of the soccer program at Davidson. In the
last three years, the team has won two conference championships and narrowly missed a third while receiving limited coaching. The
players feel that the team deserves a full-time coach and that the team could become one of the most popular
and successful sports at Davidson if they had a full-time coach.

"For this reason, I'm dissatisfied with the appointment of Chip Stone as soccer coach," Tornee said. "Chip Stone would probably
make a great soccer coach if he had the time. I really think he would aid the program with his
knowledge of the game, and I only wish he could devote his full time to the soccer team. Then we'd
be all set," Tornee continued.

Tornee believes that the administration’s delay in securing a new coach for the team and the hiring of a part-time
coach is a reflection of the administration's opinion of soccer as a second-rate sport. Tornee cited other instances which showed
this attitude: The soccer team has been forced to play with inferior equipment and has never received any post-season recognition,
according to Tornee.

The Davidsonian
April 6, 1973
Page Nine

(Staff photo by Goodman)

LOOKING AHEAD
Newly appointed Coach Chip Stone looks to future.

Bowling
MOOR LANES
Daytime Student Rates
Billiard Tables
Snack Bar
Pin Ball Machines
Hattie’s Grill

HAPPY HOUR
Tues.-Fri.
Pitchers of 58 oz. — 1.00
Mugs — 20¢
Football Tournament every Wed. at 9
Prize for a two-man team is a half case of beer

If a steady salary of $400 a month and paid-up tuition will help you continue your professional training, the scholarships
just made possible by the Uniformed Services Health Professions Revitalization Act of 1972 deserve your close attention. Because if you
are now in a medical, osteopathic, dental, veterinary, podiatry, or optometry school, or are working toward a PhD in Clinical
Psychology, you may qualify.

We make it easy for you to complete your studies. You're commissioned as an officer as soon as you enter
the program, but remain in student status until graduation. And, during each year you will be on active duty (with
extra pay) for 45 days. Naturally, if your academic schedule requires that you remain on campus, you stay on campus—and
still receive your active duty pay.

Active duty requirements are fair. Basically, you serve one year as a commissioned officer for each year you've participated in
the program, with a two-year minimum. You may apply for a scholarship with either the Army, Navy, or Air Force,
and know that upon entering active duty you'll have rank and duties in keeping with your professional training.

The life’s work you've chosen for yourself requires long, hard, expensive training. Now we are in a position to give
you some help. Mail in the coupon at your earliest convenience for more detailed information.

Universal City, Texas 78148

I desire information for the following program:
Army ( ) Navy ( ) Air Force ( )
Medical ( ) Osteopathic ( ) Dental ( ) Veterinary ( ) Podiatry ( ) Other (Please specify)

Name (please print)
Soc. Sec. #
Address
City
State
Zip
Enrolled at (School)
To graduate in (Month) (Year) (Degree)
Date of birth (Month) (Day) (Year)

*Podiatry not available in Air Force Program.

C-CN-43
