The Vol. LXII, No. Nineteen Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students March 9, 1973

(Staff photo by Jernigan)

JUST LIKE HOME
Spring term menus are being increased.

Scott Plans New Food
By JIM JERNIGAN
Staff Writer

Director of Food Service Ron Scott is presently finalizing a report that calls for even more variety in next year's
board program. The plan under consideration calls for an optional maximum or minimum level of participation. The great advantage of
this system will be the flexibility of eating at other establishments in the community. This has been sorely missed in
this year's program.

“A student will be able to commit himself to one-half the normal term’s booklet of tickets. More tickets will be
available for purchase at the Comptroller's office,” Scott commented. The student may also purchase enough tickets for the whole term.
As in the past, all freshmen will be obligated to join the maximum plan. However, Scott plans to negotiate with
private restaurants such as the Little Kitchen and the Galley Fish Camp on the feasibility of using meal tickets at
those establishments. Scott would then reimburse the restaurants. Freshmen would thus gain the freedom to eat at other places without
costing them pocket spending money.

This new system will eliminate the current 20 meal plan. Heavy eaters will either buy additional tickets from the Comptroller
or from students at black market prices. The trustees have approved a $30 board price increase for next year. This
means that the maximum plan will cost $630 and the minimum $315.

Faculty Seek Revised Visitation
(Ed. Note: This is the second in a two-part series on student-faculty relations. It focuses on prospects for the future.)
By BRUCE CORSER
Asst. Managing Editor

Recently, there have been attempts by various faculty members to revive the spirit of open house visitations. Numerous professors have
been inviting students to their homes on designated evenings in the tradition of the bygone Davidson Sunday night visitation period.

This fall, Dean of Students Will Terry issued a memo to members of the faculty asking for comments regarding re-initiating
visitation in faculty homes. Of the 22 responses, 12 were definitely positive, eight professors responded favorably to the idea of
visitations on a limited basis and two replies were negative. Several professors suggested that they preferred to make personal invitations
to certain students or classes rather than be restricted to a formal visitation period. Others called for some indication of
how many students would attend an open house rather than having to play each one by ear.

The survey showed that those who were in favor of open visitations thought that Sunday would be an appropriate time.
Terry commented that the open house concept each Sunday night was discontinued after 1967. “Student interest was spasmodic for two
or three years,” he said. “It got to be part of the scenery.” However, Terry did mention that he was
considering a trial open house program. Such a program might involve five to seven faculty homes at any one time
for two Sunday nights per month.

Professor of Political Science Paul F. Liston is one of the professorate emphatically favorable to the idea of open house
visitations. “Certain faculty members have recently opened their homes to students. This seems like a very good idea to me,”
he said. Liston added that he had held an open house this term and had had a relatively poor turnout.
Attributing this partially to poor timing, he maintained that, although the number of students that showed was small, the experience
was “definitely beneficial.” “We enjoyed ourselves,” Liston said. “The atmosphere was relaxed and I gained a lot of insight into
student perspective.”

As for the possibility of a program of open houses in the future, Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr., former dean
of students, commented that “it depends on the conditions being right. Any real expression by the students that they liked
the idea would have some faculty support.” Burts further stated, “Open houses should be spontaneous, in that students should want
to come. The program in the past came to be a strained situation. The faculty made an initiative but student
response slacked off.”

Professor of English Frank W. Bliss pointed out that an open house was “one among many possibilities that can promote
better understanding between faculty and students.” “A professor could have classes or seminars at his home, he could have students
over for a meal, or he could dine with a student somewhere else,” he observed.Recalling that visitations were "a good
experience in the past," Bliss noted that "they were a good opportunity for conversation." Liston said any such visitation program
should be "structured but not over-organized." "There should be informality in visits. They shouldn't be in a setting that is
awkward or inhibiting. It would defeat the purpose of open houses if students felt obligated to come," Liston continued. Professor
of Psychology Russell E. Walls concluded that "If the attitude now is positive, open houses should be available as long
as students are interested."

Options For Next Year

No changes in the meal plan or prices are expected this spring. However, inflation will play a factor in portioning.
"We've had to be more conscious between price and portion control. The relationship between price and portion served has to
be more exact," Scott said. Meat prices alone have risen 11 percent since September, he pointed out. The menu for
the spring term in all three houses will be increased by 30 items. More variety in menu patterns can also
be expected. Most of Scott's financial headaches have come from Rusk House where meals are served on an all-you-can-eat basis.
"Instead of the predicted 1.5 seconds factor, students are coming back for seconds an average of 2.4 times," he said.
The mad rush to use up extra meal tickets has not taken place as it did last term. Students with
extra meal tickets are now buying candy, cokes, and steaks. Scott feels that the system has smoothed out considerably. Scott
commented, "I'd like to have more feedback from the students. The Food Service Committee appointed by the SGA has failed
to meet as intended. The Davidson student is apathetic when it comes to organizing grievances," he said.

Committee Picks 32 Students To Fill Hall Counselor Posts

By JIM SITTERSON

Thirty-two of 78 applicants were approved as hall counselors for next year by a student-faculty committee on Tuesday. Twenty-four male
applicants were accepted along with six alternates. Randy Wagner, Ford Newman, Richard Dabbs, Blain Butner, James Knights, Ross McCloy, Jim
Goodloe, Steve Dodd, and Bruce Simpson were among those chosen. Mike Connors, Succop, Eric Scharling, Denson Hargrove, Steve Canterbury, John
White, DuBose Porter, Chris Ely, Robert Lautensack, Robert Jacobs, Rick Love, Peter Alford, and Arn Eliasson were also approved. Barry
Blakley, Roger Saylor, Gray Lindsey, Richard Damewood, Scott Buell, and Rowan Crews were chosen as alternates. The eight female applicants
approved were Patsy Arnold, Mary Turner, Carol Goldsboro, Laura Williams, Sue Schmidt, Pat Morgan, Vicki Switzer, and Sandy Herring. The
female alternates will be Carolina McCarley, Page Royster, and Nancy Stanger.

The selection process was very thorough, according to Dean of Students Will Terry, who was a member of the selection
committee. Prospective hall counselors filled out an application form and took a personality test. They were then individually interviewed by
the selection committee. The committee was comprised of Terry, Director of Student Housing Scotty Nichols, faculty members Herb Jackson and
Benjamin Klein, next year's freshmen advisers Jerry Godbehere and Dave Bender, and current hall counselors Tom Jenkins and Mark Monson.
The committee reviewed each applicant individually, "at least six times," according to Terry before the final selections were made. "The
committee really put in a lot of time," Godbehere added. "The final selections were very tough to make," he said.
Terry echoed this sentiment saying, "It was the most thorough process we've ever attempted. Next year it needs to be
refined, to take less time and not build up the expectations of so many people."

The process stressed the leadership capabilities of the candidates, and placed particular emphasis on whether the candidates were willing to
accept the responsibilities assumed by a hall counselor. The approved applicants and their alternates will undergo a training process that
will take place throughout most of the spring term. Although the training program has not been definitely settled on yet,
Terry said that it will try to cover as many situations that might arise for a hall counselor as possible.
Terry was pleased with the selections made by the committee. "There's always some risk involved, but we're pretty confident with
the people chosen or else we wouldn't have picked them," he commented.

Publication Ceases

With this issue, THE DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication for the Winter Term. Publication will resume after vacation on Friday, March 30.
The editors and staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN wish everyone an enjoyable break.
