‘Representational’ Reflected In Graphics
By GARY GARVIN
Staff Writer

Sometimes a big thing needs pointing out. Through the extraordinary publicity and administration of art professor Herb Jackson, the second Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition opened in the Fine Arts Building, at the least, a most impressive show. The most impressive show. The competition drew over 3000 entries from all 50 states. From these, 210 were selected for exhibition. The show will be on display until the end of April. A couple of hours at the gallery will prove well worth the effort. Further, it provides a good chance to buy some high-quality art. Prices run as high as several hundred dollars, but the bulk of the prints are on sale at the $20 to $50 price range.

The show owes its particular success to Jackson's obtaining of a more-than-able judge, Clement Greenberg. Greenberg is widely published and is one of America’s foremost art critics. He met the challenge with meticulous care. To give objectivity to his decisions, he went over the rejected entries a second time. The show, Greenberg says, reflects “the most solid tendencies of contemporary pictorial art in this country.” The competition confirms for him that “more or less ‘straight’ representational art continues as before to produce more good pictures than any other kind.” Whether or not he expresses here his own preference, representation does characterize, “more or less,” the bulk of the show.

“Representation” is a general term, not really descriptive of anything, which could be loosely characterized as art where the artist works with recognizable objects in a recognizable way. This is done in several works traditionally, in nude, portrait, or landscape studies, and in others not so traditionally. This definition, however, says nothing of the creative and expressive atmosphere the artists place their objects in, let alone the realization of subject matter through effective use of medium.

Perhaps the most impressive “representative” works are those by Peter Milton — “Passage III” and “Passage IV.” As in his earlier works based on Henry James' story “The Jolly Corner,” Milton selects the environment for his interior-exteriors from the past. In front of old brownstone houses, men labor with the prototype of a Wright brothers airplane, some pose, and others hover effortlessly in the Milton environment. Men are placed in a mystical perspective space, and the mystery is contributed to by the implications of the shaped picture plane.

Traditional portraiture is concisely yet effectively presented in the studies by Paul Blakey, “John Hurdy, 2:30 P.M.” or in the curiously associative context of Marcia Isaacson’s “Members of the John Elbert Family.” The notion of art as representational, however, should not detract from the formal demands of the graphic medium, for example, as found in Raphael Soyer's explicit understanding of line and drawing in his self-portrait lithograph, or Vivian Berman's highly innovative and expressive use of texture in her print “Ariel.”

I will not attempt to define the term “graphic.” As evident in the total show, the graphic vocabulary has been fully expanded by each artist's highly creative and individual use of the medium. There are about as many techniques as there are artists. Graphic art, as opposed to painting, has never been as fully appreciated or understood. Perhaps the best way to get the full flavor of the graphic medium as well as an exposition of contemporary art is to see this show. I highly recommend it.

‘The Flying Machine’ (top) ‘Passage IV’ (below)

The Davidsonian
GRAY WILSON

Honors College Purge Stifles

The Honors College is being reviewed by the faculty. Upgraded. Improved? Changed. Revised? Altered. Purged. Discarded. Ruined. Cancelled for lack of interest. Axed. Raped. Buried. Actually, the fate of Rowan Helper’s Hallowed Halls still hangs in the balance of the EPC, but the proposal in their hands offers some pretty specific criticisms of an establishment for students of “exceptional ability and maturity.” Such criticism will wash. The Honors College is inefficient, understaffed, diffused, and overrated. But it is not a bad idea. The proposal overlooks this and suggests in its place a kind of departmentalized independent study honors junior-senior program lacking in incentive, privilege, exceptional ability, and maturity.

Why the rub? I was interviewed along with several other students by the committee to evaluate the progress of the program over the past three years. This committee was composed of some of the most tough-minded people on campus, and they wanted answers. They wasted no time finding out what was slack. They posed alternatives, objections, and reservations. The general response from all those interviewed was critical of the Honors College as it now exists. Consequently, some fresh guidelines for study programs, such as sharper admission procedures and closer monitoring and evaluating of the i-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Individual, were anticipated. Nor did one expect the committee to dish out a lot of philosophical play dough about man into his academic COSTINOS. Try one out of two. The proposal is straightforward, realistic, and specific. It is not positive. Suggestions abound for eliminating much of the folderol, but in attacking the dead weight, the committee seems to have given in to a cry for "more weight" from a faculty of witchhunters. Take a statement like “There is general disapproval of the term ‘Honors’ as being misleading, ambiguous, and unfortunate." I do not know what that sentence means, but it strikes me as misleading, ambiguous, and unfortunate. But rather than pick at the proposal at random, consider the emphasis on anti-elitism to the tune of cost-student. The report finds it lamentable that the Honors College eats more bread than the regular academic program. Before getting down to the matter of the financial greening of Davidson, herein lieth the nature of true elitism: In the first place, every teacher and student who sets foot on this campus is an elitist, a shameless one. Davidson, if it offers nothing else, has a heritage of superior quality education that somehow helps to mitigate everything else that is wrong with the way the school is run. Students that come here to scratch out a 2.0 and sweat like a gym getting into grad school know how easy it would be to squat for four years among 105 fifth power students at the University of Good Slap making straight A’s sans effort, waiting sans souci to get into the nearby Law, Med, Pharmacy, Dentistry, or English grad school. No one at Davidson overlooks this “alternative education” before coming here. The whole campus wallows in this implicit elitism. When Furman cooks past us in B-ball, we have the consolation of knowing that it hurts very red, you know what I mean. Three years ago, for the first time in the history of this college, that last bastion of egalitarian education, the regular curriculum, cracked to let out students who wanted to pursue an accelerated and independent line of study not available in the regular classroom course of instruction. There were some miserable student failures who feigned interest for admission into the program, but this was the fault of the Honors College faculty. Outside the Honors College, there is still no chance for an accelerated, independent education at Davidson. The proposal will create no new chances. But now the purge is on, and it is the student “of exceptional ability and maturity” who is being turned back into the halls of Chambers to rot. The college may truly “use its resources in money and manpower more effectively,” but it is the student who will suffer while footing the bill. And so, the issue comes back to money. Yet the administration does not have enough money to finance ungeared elitism. The Wildcat Club can purchase badly needed muscle which does a lot more for PR than coeducation, but the administration cannot put its money where its catalogue is. If Davidson is to compete academically with other institutions, it must not retrench but expand the possibilities for an education to meet the needs and abilities of each individual student, particularly the gifted one.

March 30, 1973

Page Five

Students yet still some paunchy profs wonder if the student body has enough highly motivated, gifted people to make an Honors College as it now stands feasible. Unfortunately, less than half those presently enrolled at the Carolina Inn fit the description. But what about the few who do? Who sets the number? Twenty? Fifteen? Five? What matters is that as long as any student benefits under such a program, his example eliminates any need for a show of hands in the faculty, and it is the duty of this school to provide every opportunity for such a student. The proposal does not evaluate the intangible benefits. The recommendations are efficient and practical, but inconsiderate of that maybe one out of every 50 freshmen whose mind cries for something more, much more, than spending three hours a day listening to professors and peers who solicit and receive the platitudinous blather that spells the number of gratuitous browns earned for a meaningless grade and a superficial education. I applaud again the efforts of the faculty to clean up the Honors College, but it must not forsake the value of that “other” kind of strange education which really counts. As Seneca said, “Quaedam remedia graviora sunt quam ipsa pericula,” or, never cut your throat to stop a nosebleed. The faculty should be more mindful of the possibilities it may extend to each student. If not, the coming years may find profs and students alike rummaging for answers in Roman ruins long since forgotten.