WITH

There is a prevailing sentiment among Davidson students to end the subsidization of Wildcat Football. The football team's two outstanding
characteristics in recent years can be cited to support these arguments. The team continues to lose money and inevitably ends
up with a poor record. The contention is that if the team does so poorly with subsidization, why should it
continue to receive it? Based on this argument, I presume that if the team did have a winning season or
if it did make money, the football program would not be under any criticism.

For any college to build a winning football team takes much more money than Davidson's team has been getting. A
large initial investment must be made before any football team playing in the NCAA can start to show a profit.
Unfortunately, the football budget at Davidson has grown smaller in the last few years. Right now, Davidson has by far
the smallest football subsidy in the Southern Conference. Most of the schools in the Southern Conference have a subsidy of
two or three times the amount of Davidson's. This money is spent on recruiting and scholarships. In short, these schools
have more money to attract players and more money to offer than Davidson does.

Another one of Davidson's problems in recruiting is the school itself. Davidson has the highest academic standards of the schools
in the conference, making it tougher for prospective athletes to get in. Many players must be passed over because they
cannot meet the academic requirements. Many other recruits are content to go to another school where they will receive more
money and will not have to devote as much time to academic affairs as they would at Davidson.

In light of these circumstances, I feel that Dave Fagg and his staff are doing the best job possible in
a situation that does not show much promise. They may not be producing winning teams, but they are producing competitive
teams in a league where they are overmatched financially. Fagg has dedicated himself, his staff, and his team to beating
larger teams despite the fact that the Davidson football program receives less money each year.

The Wildcat Fund has helped the team financially in the past several years. Without it, the records over the past
two years would have been worse than they were. The fund is presently ahead of last year’s pace, but it
is still not enough. The football program needs a bigger budget from the administration. The money is needed to help
the recruiting and scholarship budgets of the team. The football program needs a substantial increase in its budget from the
administration. If such an increase was granted to the team, it is not unreasonable to expect the team to improve
dramatically within a few years. And with that improvement, the sport might someday show a profit.

The Davidsonian
February 16, 1973
Page Nine

Sidelines

League B Features Players Who Compete Mainly For Fun

League B is comprised of the teams that play mostly for fun. The players don't get as pissed (ask any
ref), they have more fun, and they sometimes play as well as the teams in League A. S-3 is the
undefeated Division 1 leader of the B league as they have rambled through their schedule fairly easily up to now.
In a tune-up for their showdown with Several Species, the frosh ground up F&M #2 62-37 led by Ken Schmader’s
23 points. Schmader has been the top player for S-3 and is easily one of the top IMAC players. A
head-to-head confrontation with undefeated Several Species was next on the list for the boys from East. Holding the organic group
to 9 points in the first half, S-3 sent the S.S. to the showers under a 31-23 thumping. Schmader was
again the leading scorer with 11 while Mike Eubanks followed with seven.points. Jim McNair had six to lead the losers.
S-3 now stands at 7-0 to have the top record in League B. Several Species is still right on the
tail of the leaders, however, as they have a 7-1 mark now. Before losing the big one to S-3, the
S.S. had soundly thrashed those studs about court, the ATO’s 57-34 in a moral victory for the hapless Turnovers. They
did reach double figures that night. One of the many Delt teams is also still in the Division #1 race.
PDT #4 is right up there with a 6-1 slate. They have crushed PGDs #2 38 to 32 as Mike
Ernst had 12 tallies. Their last win was over the wimps from W-I-A. These are the sister wimps of the
now famous W-I-B wimps. They fell before the Delts 40-21. Wimps, without a doubt. Mike Ernst, Bick Halligan, and Robert
Banta are the big guns for PDT #4. Watch for this team, they are the dark horse of this league.
F&M #2 still has an outside shot at the leaders as they are 4-2. In a big game, they handed
PDT #4 their only loss 49-44. “Wal-ton” Dally led the boys with 17. Their only two losses have come in
a one-point squeaker to the S.S. and a close loss to the undefeated S-3. F&M #2 is led by Daly,
Lynn, Wagner, and the Kid, Davis Beaston. In Division #2 of the B’s, McCann’s is still on top with an
unblemished 6-0 record. Due to messed-up scheduling, these leaders have only played one game as of late. Led by Cooper
and Fletcher, McCann’s ran up a 92-37 win over Gunner Jones All Stars. Emanonz is right behind at 6-1. They
also whooped up on College Hosts.

Bowling Lawn Tennis MOOR LANES Davidson has been awarded the United States Lawn Tennis Association Boys 14 National Championships for
the second straight year, according to Wildcat Tennis Coach Jeff Frank. The tournament will begin July 30 and close on
August 5. Davidson hosted the national boys 12 and 14 championships last summer. However, the 12-year-old tournament will be played
in Knoxville this year. Frank, who helped negotiate the return of the tournament while at the USLTA meetings in San
Juan recently, will serve as tournament director.

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St. Phone 664-3624 Mooresville, N. C.

Gunner Jones 72-38. The Cannoneers are close behind at 4-2 and still have a chance to get up higher in
the standings. They have been in close games all the way as they nipped PKA #2 earlier 49-43. Cole had
11 to lead the freshmen while Boyd dumped 20 in for the losers. The only note of dissension in the
fun league is a reported rift between players from Bruno's Bunch and their coach Bruno. After winning their first game,
times have gone hard for the Bunch as they have lost their last five. The Grey House sports one of
the most colorful teams in either league this year, with the only team in America whose entire roster is in
‘Who's Who’. This team of “elites” could be a surprise in the tourney.

Cornelius, N. C.
NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING
“We Rent Tux”
TSR Phone 892-8064

ERRORITE™ AT YOUR BOOKSTORE

Hattie’s Grill
HAPPY HOUR
Tues.-Fri.
Mugs — 20¢ 7-8
Pitchers of 58 oz. — 1.00
Football Tournament every Wed. at 9
Prize for a two-man team is a half case of beer

7:30 P.M. STUDENT OPENING (DC Students and Dates Only)
WEDNESDAY NIGHT
Tickets On Sale Beginning Monday.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DRAMA DEPARTMENT presents Sean O’Casey
February 22 and 23 at 8:15 pm
Hodson Hall ~ Fine Arts Building
DC Student $1.00 ~ Gen. Adm. $1.50
