By BUCKY and CAPTAIN AMERICA

CA and Young Buck wish first off to apologize to the freshmen ball players on S-3. An erroneous scorecard showed
the incredibly bad Crankateers actually beating S-3. In reality, however, the S-3 powerhouse crushed the cranks 11-5. From the third-floor
boys, we ask forgiveness. To the winless cranks, we say a tough break for a bunch of bad competitors. Only
two softball games have been played so far. Unfortunately, still too many forfeits dot the schedule. Nothing is worse than
going to some far-off field and having to wait around while nobody shows.

Last Tuesday's action saw PAX nip the KA’s 4-1 in a well-played defensive struggle. The Lazy Lakers took off again
as they forfeited to F&M #2. Unfortunately, another forfeit took place as the C-1 boys continued their hot streak by
surrendering another one, this time to S-1, their cross-dorm adversaries. Rounding out Tuesday's action, the undefeated SAE’s squeaked by the
usually mild-mannered Alex and his Droogs 3-1.

Wednesday is next, as it is in most Gregorian weeks, and for the SPE’s it shouldn't have been. The “most
athletic fraternity on campus” fell to the lovable Errors 7-4 as a game-saving catch by Mark Meyers thwarted the SPE’s.
Let's pause and reflect on the SPE’s new title. It SPE ah ser PHI conveniently handed this award to the
PHI er, we mean SPE fraternity on the same day the fraternity managed to pass the Delts in total IMAC
points. Continuing with Wednesday's action, the faculty took its third cut and is on (Staff Photo by Coggin).

CLUB FOOTBALL IN ACTION

The club football team concluded its spring season over Easter weekend with a 26-8 loss to Central Piedmont. Davidson's lone
touchdown came when Don Long blocked a punt which was recovered by Eric Scharling in the end zone. Davidson's workhorse
was David Overton, who picked up 55 yards in twelve carries. Overton also handled the kicking and punting chores. The
loss put the club football team's spring record at 0-2.

Golf Places Second In SC Tournament

By ED SIBLEY
Staff Writer

Davidson's golf team finished its season with a strong second-place finish in the Southern Conference Tournament. The Cats finished behind
a strong Furman team for the 54-hole tournament, while boasting the lowest individual scorer in Rusty Boyd. Led by Boyd
and Scott Shettall, who had an even-par 72, Davidson found themselves only three strokes down at the end of the
first round. The Wildcats surged into a four-stroke lead at the end of the second day. It looked as if
the Cats might be able to pull a big upset and win the crown. But they faltered and finished second
to winner Furman by eight strokes.

For the season, Davidson posted a 3-2 record in individual meets, including a big win over Duke. The Cats also
participated in four tournaments. The last two, the Chris Schenkel and the SC, were back-to-back. Davidson performed creditably, beating out
several scholarshiped teams and gleaning a lot of good experience. The tourney finish was a nice surprise. Most felt the
Cats would probably finish fourth or third at best.

Boyd was the mainstay for the Wildcats this year. He has been the most consistent player on the squad the
past three years, and his coach, Tom Scott, called him, “far and away the best player in the conference.” Boyd
will probably go to the NCAA National Championship at Stillwater, Okla., which begins on June 18. Scott said that despite
the increased competitiveness in the conference, Davidson should be in good shape next year. A fine nucleus of junior Dick
Spinner, who played well all year, sophomore Bob Rennie, and freshmen Jerry Horne, Brant Whitney, and George Wilson will be
carried over, he indicated. “Many of the teams in the conference give grants to golfers,” said Scott, “but we should
be tough since we will have some very experienced players.”the verge of flunking out of IMAC. How can a student
be expected to follow the example of these irresponsible professors?

The Pika’s beat the hapless ATO’s 8-5. ATO spokesman Stevie ‘Wonder’ Canterbury summed it up with this poem:

Seems the society snags were in the forest
The rags were on the mind,
We sung losing chorus
As we were all but wined

Canterbury also vowed that the ATO’s would win their next game.

Thursday saw only two games as God saw fit to let loose with the heavens. But God in his infinite
wisdom allowed the Staten Island Fairies to crush the Pagans from Watts 4, 11-1. The Queen and His 12 Very
Nice Guys outslugged PAX 15-13 in a defensive duel.

With Daylight Savings Time making its appearance Sunday, Monday was the start of the 6:30 games. It was also the
faculty's fourth and final cut as they conceded to Watts 4. Throw the bums out.

The rebels from enacted the first Manassas as they shelled the Cranketeers 11-5. F&M #1 ripped Alex and His Droogs
as the Droogs seem to have trouble hitting the ball. KA rebounded.

BOWLING MOOR LANES
Daytime Student Rates
Billiard Tables
Mooresville
Pin Ball Machines
Snack Bar
170 N. Main

Whatever you want, we've got

ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.

Could be a conditioning problem. Bruce Baten and Dave Griffiths hit four baggers for the winners.

The Pope held an audience with Cannon basement, but the cellar dwellers failed to show, undoubtedly mugged by some nasty
cockroaches. Sentelle 3 crushed the ATO's 16-2. ATO spokesman Stevie ‘Wonder’ Canterbury vowed the ATO’s would win their next game.

Meanwhile, the SPE’s, the smartest fraternity on campus, lost another squeaker, this time 12-11 to the SAE’s. The PDT seniors
crushed the legendary Watts 1 Wimps 16-7. The Wimpire is crumbling at its very foundation.

Tuesday saw PRA rush past the helpless Cranks 9-8, while the SIF’s treaded upon Alex and The Droogs 13-4. The
Queen and His 12 Very Nice Guys piled up three touchdowns and three field goals to ridicule PDT 30-5.

In the past, the Delt seniors rushing past the S-1 people 25-1 was an obvious answer to the earlier attack
upon their own kind. The highlight of the game was Randy Ely's call at second base. Must have been exciting.

The Errors surprised Dr. Pepper 3-2 with a last inning rally as they continue to improve. The Pope banished F&M
42 16-7 in a come-from-behind effort that saw the Moultri Mad Dog catch two long balls while centerfielder Bill “beat'em
out” Jackson added another one. Sentelle 3 ended the week by picking on PAX and ripping them 7-5.

In League A it’s the SIF’s at 4-0 with SAE at 3-1. League B has IMAC leaders the Pope and
His Court at 5-0, while the Derbies are alone at 3-0. League C leaders, the 0-12 people, are at 4-0
with Pika close behind at 3-1.

COLLEGIATE NOTES
Understand all subjects, plays and Revels faster! — Thousands of topics available within 48 hours of mailing — Complete with
bibliography and footnotes. GUARANTEED latest descriptive. Lowest prices. SEND $1.00 for our Mail-Based Order Catalogue with Postage terms to:

COLLEGIATE RESEARCH GUIDE
IN. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 706
Phila., Pa. 19107
HOT-LINE (215) 563-3758

OVERSEAS
Australia, Southeast Asia, Africa, Europe & So. America. For information on employment write Int'l Overseas Services, P. O. Box 6534,
Burbank, Calif. 91505.

Deal's Restaurant and Grill
Dial 663-4141
Mooresville, N.C.
Open 6 Days: 6 A.M. till Midnight
Closed Mondays
Call and Take-Out Orders Will Be Ready

AT YOUR BOOKSTORE
25% to 50% Off
Starts Mon., May 7th thru Sat., May 12th
The Red Hanger and LICK’s Elephant Barn
115 N. Main
892-1455
