Page Eight May 4, 1973 The Davidsonian

Cagers To Tour Australia This Summer
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Davidson's basketball team has been extended an invitation by the Australian Basketball Federation to tour Australia this summer during the month of August. According to coach Terry Holland, the invitation was prompted by an Australian effort to improve the calibre of play in that country.

“They're interested in improving their basketball program and we were invited to play some of their teams and to conduct clinics,” said Holland. “We'll be one of four teams touring Australia this summer. The others will include the Athletes In Action, a European team, and another college team,” he continued.

The team must pay $5000 of its own expenses. The rest of their expenses will be covered by the Australians. Holland felt that the money could be raised through an appeal to various civic organizations or by the players themselves. The traveling contingent will consist of 11 players, three coaches, and trainer Tom Scott. Holland did not specify who the 11 players will be, due to the summer plans already made by some of the players.

The team faces a 20-game schedule in 30 days, playing teams in various locations throughout Australia. “Most of the games will be exhibitions, but we might give them one or two of our players before the game or we might just conduct a clinic instead of a game,” said Holland.

He noted the rapid improvement made by the Australians in the past few years. “The Australians played pretty well in the Olympics. They eventually finished seventh, but they managed to beat Brazil, who gave the U.S. a lot of trouble later,” Holland said. “Of the schedule, I'd say about 15 games will be good competition for us. There are five or six teams of a calibre that can beat us,” Holland continued.

Holland felt that the experience gained by the team will prove valuable. “We have a couple of players who were injured during the season and didn’t get to see much playing time. The experience they get this summer should be very helpful,” he explained.

Holland himself is looking forward to the trip. “I've always wanted to see that country and I think it will be a pretty educational experience for everybody,” he said. Due to a rather full schedule, the team may not be able to get in as much sightseeing as they would like. “It will be a pretty rough trip with 20 games in 30 days, so the team will be pretty tired,” said Holland. “At night they might just want to rest instead of going out and trying to see everything,” he added.

Holland did point out that the team will travel by car whenever possible so that the players will be able to see some of the country. The team will leave Los Angeles on July 28, and will...

AT YOUR SERVICE
Kevin Menton placed second in SC Tournament.

Allen Plays Consistent Tennis At Number Three Singles Spot
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

One of the most consistent performers for the tennis team this year was junior Bill Allen. Playing at number three singles and teaming with Kevin Menton on the number two doubles team, Allen compiled an individual record of 22-3 during the regular season.

Allen has played on the varsity during the three years he has been at Davidson and he felt that this year’s team was probably the strongest he has played on at Davidson. “We had a strong nucleus of returning players and the addition of Kevin and Maarteen (Ruys) plus the return of Hy Lankenau from Hollins made us even stronger,” Allen said. “At the beginning of the season I thought I’d be playing in the top four, at the third or fourth spot. I was happy to be playing third singles when the season started,” he continued.

Allen was pleased with the team's overall record and especially with the conference championship this year. “We made it hard on ourselves in the tournament when we lost some of the singles. I didn’t help too much by losing in the semifinals,” said Allen. “I think the team really showed its class last Saturday when we won the tournament with our doubles teams. We won in the clutch when the match could have gone either way,” he added.

Allen felt that his strongest point is his serve. “It allows me to pressure my opponent when I can get a good serve in,” he said. For this reason, Allen prefers to play on fast courts such as concrete. “I guess my biggest weakness then is my tendency to lose in the backcourt,” Allen said. “I like to go to the net and if I'm playing against someone who continually lobs the ball over my head, I’m not strong enough to play from the baseline,” he continued.

Allen likes to play at least three times a week in the off-season. In the fall and summer, he plays four or five times a...Arrive in Sydney for the first game on August 2, by way of Tahiti and New Zealand.

HOLLAND

Cats Take Conference Crown With Brilliant Final Matches

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

The Davidson tennis team used some key wins in clutch matches last weekend to take the Southern Conference Tournament title. Having seen their two top-seeded players drop matches in the semifinal round, the Cats came roaring back on the final day to take the victory.

“It was a really great win for us,” claimed first-year coach Jeff Frank. “I thought the boys really played good tennis.”

Putting in wins in the final round were Maarten Ruys at the number four singles and Rick Quinby at the number six singles. The two doubles combinations of David Weaver and Ruys, and Kevin Menton and Bill Allen took their respective crowns at the one and two doubles slots.

“It was very tight going into the week, and at least three times during the winter. I don’t stress conditioning that much in the off-season; coach Frank really helped us this year by putting us through more conditioning before the schedule started than we'd ever done before,” Allen commented.

“Coach Frank really did help us a lot this year. He got us mentally and physically ready for the toughest matches in the beginning of the year,” he said. Allen specifically mentioned Penn, Harvard, and Dartmouth matches as the team’s most satisfying victories this season and credited Frank with a large portion of the victories.

With the season over, Allen hopes to play in two matches this summer. At this point, it looks as though Allen will be playing number one singles for Davidson next year. “I want to play number one next year and I’m sure the pressure and the competition would make me play and work harder,” Allen said, “but it's too early to really know what will happen next year.”

“It was a critical day,” said Frank. “Friday, things were going pretty bad for us.”

In the first day's activity, the Cats won all their matches, to put them in a tie with Furman. Both teams posted identical nine-point totals after that day. The second day was the painful one for Davidson. Weaver, the Cats’ number one singles player and second seed in the tourney, stumbled to Ford Robinette of William and Mary. Robinette had previously beaten Weaver in the regular season meeting of the two clubs. Allen, who was seeded first in the number three singles bracket, dropped his match also. This really hurt the Cats, as Frank had expressed, “I am very confident at the number three singles position.” Then Hy Lankenau fell to his number five counterpart from ECU by a score of 6-1, 6-0. He too had been seeded first.

“We could tell it was going to be tight after the second day,” said Frank, recently named to continue as the permanent head coach of the Wildcats. “We were slated to face both Appalachian and Furman three times in our final six matches. Either one of them could have caught us.”

But the Cats held firm. Ruys took care of his man in straight sets, 6-3, 6-1. He had been seeded second in his division. Quinby, who had drawn the third seed in the sixth position, disposed of Furman’s Jeff Maddox in the semis to advance to the finals. There, he creamed Appalachian's netter by a score of 6-1, 6-2. Both of his opponents had beaten him in the regular season.

“I thought Quinby was great,” praised Frank. “He was the most psyched person in the tournament. He really put his guys down.”

In the doubles action, Weaver and Ruys played what Frank described as “a superb match.” They were down 5-4 in the first set, according to Frank, with the top player in the conference serving. They broke his service and went on to win the opening set, 7-5. In the next set, they lost the first game. Then they came scraping back to win the next six games, taking the set and the match, 7-5, 6-1.

Gary Bressler and Jim Dorsett lost in the final round to the number one seeded team in the third doubles. They had been seeded second. Menton and Allen played a “great match” which assured the Cats of at least a tie when it was over. Having been seeded second, they whipped the top-ranked team from Furman for the victory, 7-5, 6-4.

“Furman and Appalachian both had a good chance to catch us,” explained Frank. “I think it is a credit to our team that we won under that kind of pressure.”

In the final round where the Cats met the Paladins and the Mountaineers thrice, they copped two wins against both clubs. The team closed out their season this week with relatively easy wins over Atlantic Christian and a tough High Point squad which was 24-3 when they came to Davidson.

Phone 892-0208
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7. — Wed. 9 - 12, — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Davidson, N. C.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies
Open Til 9:00 Every Night
Lowest Prices On All Beverages