The Davidsonian
January 1, 1984

Three Dorms To Inspire Communal Living

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced plans yesterday to begin construction of five new dormitories in February. Thanks to the
savvy of Vice President of Finance and Development C. David Cornell, the college has received a million-dollar grant from the
federal government for the new dormitories. “We are matching these funds, dollar for dollar, with contributions from alumni and friends,”
said Cornell. “This has proven to work very effectively in the past. For example, the college gave President Nixon $1
million during the 1972 Presidential campaign, and we’re now able to receive some P.E. credit.”

“After studying these detailed plans, I’ve decided to build the new dormitories the Jim Walters way,” said Spencer. “Walters’ plans
show a true sensitivity to student needs and the prevailing campus architectural style. I couldn't be more pleased.” (Staff photo
by Avedon)

HAWKING WARES
Pictured above is the rumored manager of the new Swedish Massage Parlor opened by Davidson coeds. She promises satisfaction.

Parlor Provides Social Outlet

To help defray rising tuition costs, several of this year’s coeds have banded together to form the Davidson Swedish Health
Salon. Using the latest equipment, the salon offers a variety of services. According to General Manager Harriet Beecher Sow, “We
have been encouraged by the amount of support given our service by the Davidson community. Already, experienced advisors from Mooresville
have shown much enthusiasm for the project. “After a few demonstrations, most of the girls have readily picked up a
workable technique,” said advisor What-a-Martha. “Generally, we just need a little more work on our vibrators,” she added.

Freshperson Linda Loveless has become especially fascinated with the project. “I’m going to try to obtain extended study credit for
my work here,” she said. “One of the male recipients of the coed service, William Wash, has voiced the sentiment
of most participants. “It’s a temporary diversion from the rigors of academia. Instead of playing paddle ball, I go and
get a good workout at the parlor.”

Manager Sow has indicated that not only students but a surprising number of faculty and administrators have dropped by for
visits to the parlor. At present, the operation is limited to Third Floor Watts, but rumor has it that interested
students on the fourth floor are considering a franchise. “The coeds enjoy giving this service as much as the customers
do receiving it,” said Sow.

Vice President of Academic Affairs John M. Bevan stated, “Now I can finally say with a clear conscience that Davidson
offers a liberal-arts education.”

The Jim Walters Company has fabricated some really exciting ideas which will put Davidson on the map architecturally speaking,” said
Spencer. “These buildings will enhance the beauty of the campus, following in the tradition of the new E. H. Little
Library and the Cunningham Fine Arts Center.”

Walters explained that the dormitory plans were inspired by Pablo Picasso’s painting “Guernica.” “We’ve combined the outstanding features of the
New York slums with the rustic rural flavor of the outhouse and the functional qualities of the Pentagon, to produce
a structure unequalled on any college campus in the country,” said Walters. “We're naming the new housing complex ‘The Ivory
Towers.’ I got the idea while visiting the White Castles in New York City,” he added.

Director of Student Housing Scotty Nichols was elated upon viewing the plans. “It’s just what I wanted,” she said. “These
dormitories were designed with the student in mind,” said Nichols. “They contain every modern convenience including built-in lofts in individual
rooms and lavatories with water running hot and cold.”

The dormitories are four stories high. They are designed to hold 100 students. Each dormitory has 20 rooms plus a
lobby in the basement. Dean of Students Will H. Terry indicated his delight in the new concept in student living.
“Housing four students to a room will help develop that sense of community we strive to achieve here at Davidson,”
said Terry. “This experiment in communal living will offer Davidson students the maximum degree of freedom in developing close personal
relationships which distinguish Davidson as a small college geared to the individual student,” he added.

Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr. is also excited about the new plans. “I couldn’t have done
better myself,” said Meetze. “These buildings are designed to ensure usage of every inch of living space. While including every
conceivable convenience, Walters has excluded every space-taking non-essential including staircases, bathrooms, and double-file hallways. I’m very impressed with Walters’ concern
to have the buildings blend smoothly with the natural foliage of the site.”Low ceilings on all rooms have kept the
height of the dormitories perfect for planting gazanias,” said Meetze. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan likewise could
find little fault with the new housing plan. “I am very impressed with the Jim Walters plan. I am convinced
that this housing will best indoctrinate Davidson students to the social and academic character of campus communal living,” Bevan said.
“I wouldn't mind living there myself,” he added. One feature which Bevan dislikes is the lack of stairs or elevators.
He feels that ladders will be an inconvenience. Terry, however, feels that this omission will benefit the dormitory inhabitants. “Davidson
students are just going to have to realize that in climbing the ladder of success, you can't step on all
the little people on the way up,” said Terry.

Election Fiasco Ruins Butner

President-elect Blain Butner was forced to resign late Thursday when it was discovered that he spent $1,100.53 on campaign materials
during the election this week. According to past president Bo Phillips, $500 of the amount was allegedly spent on campaign
posters, brochures, and handouts, and the remainder was used to buy off freshmen votes. “We first noticed something was fishy
when we realized that there were about 4000 Butner posters on first Chambers,” Phillips said. “Those damned things were stretched
up and down the hall.” Noted Psychology Professor John D. Kelton noted that the cumulative effect of the abstract lines
on the Butner posters was hypnotic, forcing students to wander around campus muttering “bbb for sga.” It was not known
how many students voted for Butner without knowing who he was, or even how many voted twice. Kelton tested the
effect of the cunning hypno-posters by allowing 50 rats to run free in the classroom building, and then polling them
to see who they supported in the election. All but one of the 27 rats collected indicated a preference for
Butner. The 27th rat, according to Kelton, had a fetish for day-glo red.

The elections committee of the SGA was called into special session to deal with the problem, but could find no
part of the SGA by-laws set up to deal with such emergencies. They decided to throw the issue before a
meeting of the full Senate, but were unable to gather a quorum of senators with only a week's notice. Only
Jim Goodloe and Vince Rabil showed up. The problem will now be turned over to the Hearing Committee because they
haven't had a chance to do anything yet this year. Phillips offered to continue as SGA president until the scandal
was cleaned up. “This is the kind of martyr-like sacrifice I have become used to through my long years of
brilliant work in the senate,” he said. Phillips indicated that he would devote all his time and energy to the
problem. “I hope we can resolve this thing before summer vacation. My blonde hair and delicate complexion might otherwise be
damaged by over-exposure to the limelight.” Phillips said that he was “shocked and amazed” by the bizarre turn of events
in the election and felt that it would do little to help the prestige of the campus politician. By this
point in his press conference, however, most of the attending press were asleep.

Elections specialist Bob Corlew expressed surprise at the amount of money used to buy votes in the freshman class. “It
explains why he won on the first ballot,” Corlew said, “but $500 is about twice the amount needed to buy
those same votes.” He said he would recommend that the college remove Butner from the work rolls “if he had
that kind of money to throw around.”

Davidson Compiles Book Of Prominent Transfers

Professor of History Chalmers G. Davidson ’28 and Assistant Director of Alumni Affairs Zachary Long '65 have recently compiled a
book-length project scheduled for publication early in January. The book, entitled “The Last Hooray: Davidson Alumni Who Transferred to Other
Colleges and Subsequently Became Prominent,” is a biographical collection of prominent Davidsonians who for various reasons transferred to other undergraduate
colleges and universities. Notable figures include William Styron, author of “The Confessions of Nat Turner” and “Lie Down In Darkness.”
Others included are Graham Allison, author of “Essence of Decision,” William Phipps, author of “Was Jesus Married?” and Charles Wright,
author of “Hard Freight.” As one of the book’s authors quipped, “Although these men have been disloyal to our alma
mater, we must nevertheless pay tribute to they who are as stalwart as the 14 oak trees we planted despite
Woody Wilson's obstinance.” The book will serve as an inspiration to outstanding students.
