Davies To Resign For Research Post
By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

Professor of Classics Mark Davies notified Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan this week of his intent to leave Davidson College at the end of this academic year. Davies will become Research Associate at the American Center of Documentation for the “Iconographical Lexicon of Classical Mythology.” He will direct the operation of this Center which will be located in Princeton, N.J. His new appointment was made by the Research Council of Rutgers University.

The purpose of the project which Davies will direct is to establish an Index of all Greek and Roman mythological material preserved in the United States on monuments from ca. 800 B.C. to A.D. 400. Davies indicated that he had been contacted for the position by a professor who lives in Princeton, N.J., where Davies received his Doctorate degree. “It just came down to one of those positions where I was made an offer I couldn't refuse,” stated Davies. “My wife and I are sad to be leaving the people at Davidson. We have had a very nice time here during the past two years, and are sorry to be going,” he said.

Davies has been a member of the Classics Department since 1971. In accepting Davies’ resignation, Bevan expressed his deep regrets. “Dr. Davies is a very promising young scholar and teacher. I am sorry he is leaving but recognize the tremendous opportunity this project affords him professionally,” he said. George Labban, chairman of the Classics Department, voiced similar feelings. “Dr. Davies’ solid qualifications, his energy and substantial cooperation both within and out of the Classics Department have rendered him a valuable member of our faculty,” he said. In reference to the Administration’s plans for finding a suitable replacement, Bevan indicated that “the search has just begun.”

Melton
By BRUCE CORSER
Asst. Managing Editor

Julius Melton, director of deferred giving and associate professor of religion at Southwestern at Memphis (Tenn.), will assume the duties of director of deferred giving at Davidson, effective March 1. “Davidson's deferred gift program means any gift coming to the college at a later date through wills, bequests, and charitable remainder trusts, or through Davidson's pooled income fund,” according to Donald L. Winston, Davidson's director of development. “Under Davidson's trust funds and pooled income fund, a donor can retain income from a gift for life, and still have a portion of that gift be deductible,” he continued. “Since it began two years ago, our deferred giving program has grown steadily,” said C. David Cornell, vice president for finance and development. “Under Dr. Melton's direction we are confident it will become one of the most successful programs of its kind in the country.”

The trustees met with college officials last week to decide on the 1973-74 college budget.

To Direct Deferred Gifts

As head of the relatively new deferred gift program, Melton will endeavor to make the alumni and friends of Davidson aware of the opportunities available through this type of program. Winston said that within the last 18 months “in excess of $300,000 has been obtained through these various trusts. What we do today in our deferred giving program will build a strong foundation for Davidson's future,” he emphasized. Winston estimated that approximately 20 percent of the total amount raised by the college would be derived from the deferred giving program within the next three or four years. Although the concept is not new, the tax law of 1969 has encouraged this type of philanthropic donation. Winston reported that most respected colleges, especially the New England schools, were far ahead of Davidson in this type of program. “If Davidson had a deferred gift program 15 years ago, we would be benefiting from that income today,” he stated.

College Exchange Draws Nine, Others Apply To JYA Program
By HUGH MOORE
Contributing Editor

Off-campus study for next year is drawing about the same number of students as it has in the past. The Eight-College Student Exchange Program, whose ap-The application deadline was Monday and has attracted nine applicants: eight rising juniors and one rising sophomore. Accepted applicants are to be notified around March 1. "Most of these are accepted," Exchange Program Officer Jay H. Ostwalt said. "We don't expect any problems."

A Davidson student in the program studies for a year in one of seven liberal arts colleges in Virginia. Of the nine who have applied, eight have opted for Hollins College, and one for Randolph-Macon Women’s College. There has been some question about the future of the program. On this point, Ostwalt commented: "The men students must participate in greater numbers than in the past if the program is to survive. Substantial numbers must also attend each of the participating women’s colleges."

Most of the students anticipating study off-campus next year, though, are considering going further than the next state. At present, 18 students have applied for Junior Year Abroad (JYA) in France at the University of Montpellier and 13 for JYA in Germany at Marburg University. Both of these programs are sponsored by Davidson. There are 12 other students who wish to study elsewhere abroad, namely in Africa, Britain, and Spain. Since Davidson does not have year-long programs in these countries, interested students must apply both to the Foreign Study Committee and to the host college. For those students who are considering spending a year in Africa, the American Study in Africa Program is helping with placement. The application deadline for study abroad is March 14. Director of Overseas Studies Paul C. Fisher was not sure how many more applications would come in before that time. "There seems almost a lack of adventurous spirit," he said.

For JYA in Germany, the number of applications is slightly below the norm. Fisher attributes this in part to wary premedical majors who are afraid a year of pass-fail grading in Germany will hurt their grade point averages. "I don't think it really hurts," Fisher said, "but students have to be cautious."

The Davidsonian, February 23, 1973, Page Three

DELIBERATING ON OUR FUTURE

Describing deferred giving as a "fine program for men concerned with taking care of their wives after they're gone," Winston said that the success of the program will depend to a large degree on "educating our alumni and making them aware of what we have to offer."

Although the college offers a variety of annuity and life income plans, all include basically the same concept: a gift is given irrevocably to Davidson and by legal contract, the College agrees to pay income for life to named beneficiaries. Advantages offered by various programs are numerous. In all plans, the donor is entitled to an immediate charitable deduction for income tax purposes. The exact amount of the deduction depends upon the size of the gift, ages of the beneficiaries, and the income rates. Besides this, a definite amount of the capital transferred to Davidson is excluded from the donor's taxable estate.

Three major types of programs embraced within the sphere of the college are annuity agreements, unitrusts, and pool funds. Annuity settlements specify that a fixed percentage of the total capital turned over to the college will be returned to the donor each year for life. Unitrusts differ in that, under their terms, annual payments will be made for the donor's lifetime based on a fixed percentage of the trust’s assets, revalued each year. A pool fund, as its name implies, is set up on a group basis. Participants donate money to a central pool and are given credit for a corresponding number of units of the fund. The college invests the fund and returns to its contributors annual payments based on the current value of the investment.

ONE OF THE BRAVE

One of the pre-meds who decided to take physics at Davidson. Many others take it elsewhere for fear of doing poorly here. College officials won't release exact figures on how many actually take physics at other colleges.