May 18, 1973 Page Seven

Intramural Softball Awards | Presented By BUCKY and CAPTAIN AMERICA

Well, CA and YB will get the worst out of the way right away. The SPE’s gunned down the Fairies unmercifully 4-3 on Tuesday, throwing all the softball leagues into total confusion. A three-run rally in the sixth by the SPE’s took the game as they capitalized on three SIF errors in the inning along with some clutch hitting. Bill Alexander continually had the SIF’s popping into easy outs. A tough break for a bunch of bad competitors, the SIF's.

In other games, Q-12 acknowledged themselves as the only undefeated team in IMAC as they nipped KK’s 4-2 behind the Wop’s pitching. The 12 really nice guys are going to go a long way. Earlier, Q-12 had crushed the PKA’s 16-1 as the "Queen" Rob Flame Benton and the human Beach Ball powered the way.

League B is really wild these days as each of the top teams continues to knock each other off. These last few days saw Emanon get clenched by the Delt seniors, 9-1, led again by the pitching of “Straight” Ernst. Then Emanon got ragged as they jumped on the Derbies and upset them 8-6. The Pope and His Court picked up a forfeit and stayed ahead of this mess at 7-1. PDT seniors now follow at 6-1 while the Derbies and Emanon are both 6-2.

In League C, S-3 was crunched by the KA’s 14-3 to end their unbeaten string. S-3 is now a shade behind Q-12 at 8-1. League A shows F & M #1 taking over the first place slot with a 6-1 record as their balanced hitting is showing the way. The SIF's are right behind at 7-1 but have many games to play yet. The SPE’s are a threat now with a 9-3 record as they destroyed W4 34-6 before nipping the tabled Fairies.

In humorous, mean-nothing games, the Crankateers did pick up a win while ATO's did not. This gives the AT zeros the recognition as the worst team around. The Cranks escaped this dubious distinction by crushing PDT #2 20-4. Simply amazing. The ATO’s lost their fifth and sixth consecutive one-run tragedies to PAX 3-2 and the Cranks 11-10 respectively. The game between the Mad Dog Ward's Cranks and Canterbury’s Turnover must have indeed been a classic struggle. The ATO’s are the biggest clutchers since the Lakers.

Softball finishes up this week with the tournament taking place next week involving the top four teams from each league. The track meet takes place next Monday and Tuesday also. Seeing how this is the last issue, C.A. and Young Buck would like to hand out their 1972-73 awards and recall some of the more insane moments of the IMAC year.

First and foremost is our most coveted award, the JIMMY PIERSALL AWARD. The Jimmy Piersall Award is for the athlete that most typifies the ideals and actions of Jimmy Piersall. (No, C.A. and Young Buck did not give it to themselves.) The nominees were Charlie “The Human —— (Staff photo by Goodman) STICKING THE RUNNER AT FIRST Duff Bruce fires the ball to first base to get the out. VERY FUNNY GLYS (Staff photo by Goodman) Captain America presents award to Mike Deese as Young Buck looks on. “Don Juan Banana” Becker, and Dennis Cholak.But the winner, from the Pika house, was that immortal umpire baiter and goofball — Mike “Ding-Dong" Deese.

Our next award was indeed a simple matter. The only nominee was a hands-down choice who simply outclassed the opposition. Our ‘72-'73 recipient of the RAG AWARD is a repeater from last year, the man who is permanently on the rag, Duke Sims. Salutations are definitely in order. Simsby will get ragged at anything no matter how useless it may be. Sometimes he doesn't need that much to get him started.

Probably this next award is a serious award, or at least as serious as YB and CA can make it. The prestigious MR. IMAC trophy, donated by the Bike Athletic Supporter Co., commonly known as the Bike Cup, is this year presented to D.C.'s jock of jocks, the immortal James C. Brown and his boys of renown (the Delts). Our hats are off and our pants are down to J.B.

The year’s honoree for the famed IRON GLOVE goes to that medical wizard, the ever-present malpracticing Tom “Dr. Goose” Soos. Son of Mother Goose made the easy ones look hard and just flopped as the hard ones went by. Iron Glove was given credit for one putout this year when a ground ball bouncing in his vicinity killed a player that the Goose had clumsily tripped.

The NO SHOW award is a unanimous choice without a doubt this year. The faculty were outstanding in their efforts to non-appear this year. Consistency was their trademark as the intellects did not even have rumors that they might show up. An unfortunate idea is circulating around campus that the Sam Spencers merely entered a faculty team to pick up the fabled forfeit trophy. We certainly hope that this is not so. The forfeit award will be placed in the stall of the 3rd Belk bathroom as none of the professors showed to pick up their trophy.

The coveted ADAM'S APPLE AWARD without a doubt goes to those jokers of chokers, the infamous AT Zeroes. The trophy, consisting of a golden noose, reportedly was used in the recent death of Steve Canterbury, who died of suffocation. However, Canterbury's last statement was something to the effect that “I vow school will end. Uh oh, could be a real long spring term.” Canterbury hasn't been right in his life. How could the turnovers lose six one-run games in a row?

Some of the highlights of last year were obvious. Dean Will Terry's attempted gambling ring was broken up in early January, but the Dean was released on a technicality in his trial. Sam Spencer illegally broke into Terry's psychiatric files to void the case totally. Is there no justice?

The emergence of a new power in D.C. emerged with the promotion of the United Wimpire of Watts I. Outstanding wimps all, this crew shall be reckoned with the next few years. Look for C.A. and Y.B.’s new book this summer, “The Rise and Fall of the 3rd Wimpire.”

To those of you whose feats or mistakes we may have missed, we say — tough break. We wish y'all a fond farewell as Captain A is transferring to Notre Dame to pursue his religious beliefs in Zen Buddhism while Young Buck is going to enter into his doctoral study in the field of gasoline pumping in Wisconsin. To you fools who will return, we paraphrase the Hare Krishnas’ “Bhagavad Gita,” by saying: thus perplexed by various anxieties and bound by a network of illusions, one becomes too strongly attached to sense enjoyment and falls down into hell (Davidson).

May you always match and may you never tilt.

SNEAKY SHOE

The Red Hanger and UCK’s Elephant Barn
115 N. Main
892-7501