The Vol. LXIII, No. Eleven

Young Anathematized
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

For Heretical Proof

Yesterday the Vatican announced that John J. Young of Davidson College’s philosophy department has been excommunicated. The Pope took this action following Young’s refusal to retract an article he wrote for a philosophy journal. The article purported to prove that God is a giant prune. Pope Paul VI in a press conference answered a question concerning this action by saying: “I can’t have my sheep believing that God is a fruit!”

The response at Davidson College has been chaotic. Young told this reporter in a private interview that he would never recant. He said: “I know God is a prune. My proof went something like this: God created the world in his image. The earth is round. God has existed for all time. Those things in this world which are old are wrinkled, for instance, old people. The Pope tells us that this world is as evil as the pits of hell. Now, the only thing in this world which is round, wrinkled and which has a pit is a prune. Therefore, we can conclude beyond a shadow of a doubt that God is a prune. Q.E.D.”

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. responded to this action with a decision that Young be dismissed immediately. Spencer said, “I don’t care if he still claims to be a Christian, we can’t have someone teaching at Davidson who is determined to go to hell. The main reason for the Christian Commitment, that is, the reason for all professors being Christians, is obvious. The professors are bound to die before the students. If they’re in heaven, they can hold heaven’s door open for their students.” Spencer believes that Young would not help his students get to heaven even though he is an excellent teacher. He might even take all his classes to hell with him. The Christian Commitment does not concern itself with good education but rather with giving Davidson students a headstart on heaven, Spencer felt.

Davidson's religion department was lobbying in the president’s office yesterday. They demanded that Young be burned at the stake for his heresy. They argued that with the present fuel shortage, Young’s burning to death would serve two purposes. The heat from the fire could be used to heat part of Chambers Building. And God might look more kindly upon Young’s past classes if he were made to pay for his crimes against God and humanity.

Professor of Chemistry James M. Frederickson favored a different form of death so that Young's body could be studied to see if some chemical imbalance had caused his heretical views. The psychology department was in favor of keeping him alive. They wanted to perform classical conditioning experiments with Young. One member of the department exploded ecstatically: “We’ve never had a human subject to practice on. We think J.J. would be perfect for the position since, as a heretic, he can’t be trusted to do anything.”

Spencer would not comment on which, if any, of these proposals he would accept. He was adamant, however, that Young be dealt with. He said, “We cannot afford to have a biased professor on this campus!”

PETER SISTERS

Assistant Director of Student Affairs Duff Bruce announced that he has procured the much-sought Peter Sisters to perform in the Rathskeller next week. The Peter Sisters, Fonda and her little sister Anita, are presently touring the East Coast with the staff of their magic show. “Their trickery is bringing down house after house,” Bruce said. “They're a very tight pair.”

BY GEORGE!!!

Jeff George presents the format of the '73-'74 yearbook. This exciting format promises to be a real beaut.

Frigid Chambers Chill Profs:

(Ed Note: Is a cold shoulder worse than a cold room? Is the lack-of-heat issue a hot potato? Several members of the Faculty think so, and contracted THE DAVIDSONIAN to cut through the red tape and cold air. This is the third of a two-part series dealing with this problem. The first installment will be printed sometime in the future.)

The nation-wide energy crisis and fuel shortage struck again at this placid college community causing an increase in sluggishness, book-burning, and bundling. The latest appearance of the Shivering syndrome has attacked the faculty, who complain that their offices are becoming increasingly colder. After a diligent search ofChambers, this correspondent finally discovered an occupied office, whose professor was shaking either with rage or the dread disease. His warm welcome could not temper the cold office. Director of Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze commented, “We have to conserve fuel somewhere, and professors are so seldom in their offices we didn’t think they would mind. The heat was turned off three weeks ago. It was simply a matter of flicking a switch here and turning a valve there.” College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said, “Me too.”

Professor of Philosophy Earl MacCormac logically deduced that since his office was colder and the window was closed, the heat must have been turned off. “Somebody did it,” said MacCormac, noting that heating was an administrative, not a faculty responsibility. Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell, in a short interview in the heated garage attached to his office, explained, “Now don’t think this has anything to do with the Governance situation. Just because the faculty are so stubborn... If there wasn't a fuel shortage we would not have done it.”

Faculty spokesman Alexander McKelway outlined his strategy. “Right now we're not trying to get the heat turned on as much as the air conditioning turned off.” McKelway also suggested, if fuel was so scarce, that the college resume cutting peat from the college peat bog. “You know, the one where the new dorms are not going to be built.”

Professor of Physics Robert Manning prophesied, “It’s a matter of entropy. The world is old, and is being run down. The comet Kohoutek is a sign. Some of us will be as warm as toast soon. Sooner than you think.”

Dean of Students Will Terry rebutted the faculty complaints saying, “It is the kind of forthright decision that the Davidson College administration has always made for the future satisfaction and gratification of all involved. The faculty will be able to say with some degree of pride that ‘they did their part’ to ease the energy crisis. And after all, that’s what Davidson is all about, giving generously of oneself for the happiness and comfort of others.”

Meanwhile, the students, odd man out in Governance, are stoically studying Seneca and burning the couplets of Alexander Pope for warmth. Quoth one second-year Humanities student, warming his hands over a dying fire, “Whatever is, is best.” Lame Duck Student Body President Bo Phillips, in his last official quote, said, “Despite the fact that some of my best friends are on the Davidson faculty and I hate to see them suffer, sacrifices on their part are necessary. After all, students have suffered cold shoulders for years from faculty members who insist that students have no right making decisions on Educational Policy.”

But most students, blissfully unaware of the bitter magnitude of the crisis, were calm. One freshman co-ed commented on the lack of heat in the faculty offices, “It’s a small sacrifice for them, and I don’t think it's too great a hardship. They are a hardy bunch - they’ll survive.”

Yet the faculty is adamant in their stand to ‘turn the heat on.’ One professor who wished to remain anonymous, said, “This isn’t an ultimatum, but if the negotiations on the 60-yard line of Sprunt Field are not satisfactory we'll be forced (Continued on page 14.) 

Lawrimore Receives 1973 Pullit Surprise

News sources announced this week that Director of the News Bureau Buck Lawrimore has been awarded this year’s Pullit Surprise for his outstanding contributions to literature. The Surprise was formally awarded yesterday by Professor of Philosophy Earl MacCormac, the campus representative for ‘Pullit Now,’ the nationally-known literary syndicate. When asked if he approved of Pullit’s selection of Lawrimore, MacCormac answered, “Yea.”

However, despite MacCormac’s approval, much hullabaloo followed the announcement. Telegrams from all over the country flooded Davidson’s mail room this morning. “Who the hell is Buck Lawrimore?” many queried. Nevertheless, MacCormac remained adamant. “I’m right, I’m right, I know I’m right,” he said.

According to MacCormac, Lawrimore was selected for his screenplay adaptation of an earlier novel, “Back Door Barney.” The film will star Lawrimore himself and a German Shepherd. At a reception this morning, Lawrimore answered questions and kissed babies of well-wishers. “Aren’t you surprised?” he commented. Lawrimore is currently at work on his second novel, a poignant story of his pet ass “Odie.” The book is tentatively titled “Donkey Odie.”