Cagers Challenge
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Already assured of a first-place finish in the Southern Conference, the Davidson Wildcats venture to Ohio to do battle with
the Dayton Flyers tomorrow night. Having an off-year this season, the Flyers will be trying to rebound at home before
heading for Miami the following week.

Donald Smith, a 6-0 junior backcourt ace, will lead the Flyers into the contest with a 20-plus scoring average. The
co-captain has averaged over 20 points per game since he has been on the varsity roster. The other co-captain is
Mike Sylvester. He is a swing man who has been scoring between 15 and 20 points per game all season.
The 6-5 junior averaged 12.3 his sophomore year.

Coach Don Donoher has eight men who tower 6-7 or larger. Allen Elijah paces the rebounding, clearing close to 10
per contest. The 6-8 forward from Detroit is only a sophomore.

Davidson Head Coach Terry Holland will have to keep his club from looking toward the Southern Conference Tournament which begins
next Thursday in Richmond, Va. The Cats need a win badly to go into the post-season classic with a five-game
winning streak.

John Falconi, a 6-5 junior, still leads the Cats in the scoring column with a 16.2 average. The lanky guard
also paces the team in free throw shooting with a 79.2 percent.

Holland Not Ashamed Of Team's 15-8 Mark
By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

After this Saturday's game with Dayton, the Davidson basketball team will start what could be termed a new season. Past
records are forgotten as the Cats head into the Southern Conference Tournament to try and earn the right to compete
in the NCAA Playoffs.

Many Davidson followers are disappointed with the team's showing thus far this year. When Coach Terry Holland looks over the
team's 15-8 record, he says that it is "nothing to be ashamed of." He also said that he "would have
liked to have it better but with the caliber of teams we are playing it is not that disappointing."

When asked about the team’s eight losses, Holland sees the major problem as “consistency in shooting” which Davidson has not
had this season. He also remarked that overall the team is both a good field goal and free throw shooting
club but in certain cases this is what has failed them.

When asked about this new set of games coming up where a single loss means elimination, Holland wants to strive
for consistently good games. In that type of situation, there is “no room for bad games” as put by the
coach.

When looking over the last 3 wins, Holland was only concerned about The Citadel game where again consistency was a
problem. There are very few teams that Davidson could beat and play the way they did against The Citadel.

In looking over the Furman and Appalachian games, Holland sees two brands of play which he would not mind seeing
the Cats adopt for the rest of the games this season. In the Furman game, one of the players (Horowitz)
got hot. According to Holland, “When one player is real hot you have got to get him the ball.” The
Appalachian game was a different story as all the players were playing well. In this case, the Coach just lets
them play. Holland was pleased with the Appalachian game because it showed he could use all his players.

Holland had very little to say about the Conference Tournament because besides Furman and Davidson, none of the seeds have
been decided. These seeds will be known for sure after Saturday night's games. Holland and the team are ready for
the challenges facing them, all they need now is some support to help them along.

SPORTS THIS WEEK
Feb. 22-24
Swimming...Southern Conference Meet
Wrestling...Conference Tournamentat Williamsburg
24 JV Basketball ... Wake Forest at Winston-Salem
24 Varsity Basketball ... Dayton at Dayton
Mar. 1-3 Varsity Basketball ... Conference Tournament at Richmond

Flyers In F clip. Greg Dunn is right on the Falcon's back with an average of 14.5. T. Jay Pecorak
and Larry Horowitz are the other scorers with double-figure averages for the Cats at 11.2 and 10.3, respectively. Horowitz continues
to lead the team in rebounding. The sophomore is hauling them in at a 6.6 clip. Dunn follows in this
category also with an average of 5.1. Junior point man Mike Sorrentino hit the century mark in assists against Appalachian.
He now has 100 for the season. Seniors John Pecorak and Greg Gerdy will be playing in their last regular
season game for the Wildcats tomorrow. The Cats’ field goal percentage is still slightly under 50 percent with a 49.3
mark. They will have to score at a good clip to knock off the Flyers on their home court. Rebounding
will be a key factor also. The visitors will be taking a 33.7 board average against a much taller team.
Holland will have to get maximum performances from his big men in order to take the victory.

Union Tournament
February 23, 1973
Page Nine

FALCONI DRIVES FOR TALLY
John Falconi paces the Cat scoring.

Winners Falter in Final Tilt As Inexperience Proves Fatal
By JEFF ALLENDER
Staff Writer

Davidson College students did little hustling in a recent tournament for bowling, pool, table tennis, and bridge among regional college
students. The Davidson contestants in the regional college tournaments motored into Knoxville for the opening rounds only to find the
hotel reservations had been changed to a different site. Our teams were best characterized by one word: inexperience. None of
the 12 men had competed in intercollegiate tournaments before; few had any tournament experience at all. The regional event, sponsored
by the Association of College Unions-International and hosted by the University of Tennessee, saw nearly 50 schools from the Carolinas,
Virginia, Kentucky, and Tennessee send representatives in six sports.

The best showing was given by the bridge team, composed of seniors Clayton Daley and Jeff Allender. Although placing above
average in each of the three rounds, the Davidson trumpers were unable to bring about any one outstanding performance. They
stood eighth out of 24 teams after an opening 158 (on a 143 average), held that position with a 151½
the second session, but fell to tenth with a closing score of 144½ for a 454 total, 25 above average.

The table tennis contingent, freshmen Rob Canning and Mike Blanchard and international student Reinhard Pfeil, was able to tally only
one game won in their double-elimination contests. Canning won the second game of his second match 21-14 only to lose
by identical scores in the other two games.

In pocket billiards, juniors Brad Tipler and Rick Zimmerman fought close matches but were unable to bring home a victory.
After falling to two of the top contenders in the first round, both Tipler and Zimmerman were awarded byes in
the second round. Third round action saw Zimmerman tied 64-64 but he was forced into a bad safety, after which
the other quester ran the last 11 balls to earn a 75-64 victory in the straight pool contest.

The bowling contingent, freshman Bill Chappell, sophomores John Fowler, Reggie Harding, and Don Long and junior Mike McFarland, suffered from
the long drive up to Knoxville, as the alleymasters scored consistently below their averages throughout the nine-game series. Only one
200 game was scored by the team, that by Chappell in the first series.

MARTEEN RUYS VOLLEYS
The tennis team is only one of the many spring athletic organizations which have already begun practice. The next issue
of THE DAVIDSONIAN will include preview stories on all of these teams.
