The Davidsonian
October 5, 1973

Eleven CA Eats Print As KA’s Romp By Delts

By CAPTAIN AMERICA And NO BUCKY

Since last week’s column I have spent much of my time devouring heaping portions of newsprint. The stuff really doesn’t taste too bad with ketchup and salt. The reason for this giant case of the munchies is that my handpicked team, the Delts, were massacred by the KA’s 51-6. For the information of the freshmen, this is comparable to Miami being beat 51-6 by the Chicago Bears.

The KA’s, led by John Brandon, were superb as they collected 10 interceptions on their way to crushing last year’s champs. Delt star Bill (McAdoo) Mcllwain said, “We were undoubtedly the most overrated flickerball team on campus, but we will get our s--t together in the future!” Once again our apologies to the KA’s, as this proves even C. A. can be wrong now and then, usually then.

While I’m eating newsprint, I wish to inform the readers that Dave Wolter, not Walter Crouch, led the undefeated Cannon I flickerball team. It’s been a long week for C.A.

The ATO’s continue to show fine form as they forfeited another one, this time the free gift was given to Richardson II. Ace Kloditch, an ATO spokesman, said that the ATO’s were giving up all fall and winter sports and going to South America for the winter to get ready for next year’s softball season. I can’t see where it’ll help them much though.

In other action last Wednesday, the Cleveland Indians buried Richardson III 40-20. Obviously the tribe does not take after their namesakes. Also, the Altoona Aardvarks got back on the winning track with a resounding 32-13 thumping of hapless SAE 2.

On Thursday, the Phi Gamms destroyed the pitiful Wimpettes Plus 41-0. If the Wimpettes Plus get any worse they’ll have to be re-named the Wimpettes Minus. It must be something in the dorm.

In a biggie on Monday, powerful Emanon defeated the North Main Gozinyas 34-20 in a hard-fought game. The Gozinyas had a lot of class but were outmanned by the underrated Emanon squad. The Gozinyas were holding their own however until they ran out of beer at the beginning of the third quarter.

The tennis bums rebounded from their opening loss to defeat S-IV 19-13. The bums have some good talent and fine organization, and they may be a dark horse by tournament time.

Powerful SAE 1 crushed Richardson III 61-6 showing form that could lead them to the top. (How does it feel to have C. A.’s Kiss of Death SAE?) The last game on Monday was a 51-12 wipeout with the Staten Island Fairies coming out on top of Cannon-IV. The Fairies were led by Joe Duncan's seven touchdowns.

Club Gridders Defeated 26-0 By Top-Ranked ECU Squad

By JORDAN CLARK Staff Writer

The Davidson club football team lost its third game in as many outings to a talented East Carolina University squad by a score of 26-0. The final margin easily overshadows an outstanding effort by the Cats. Paced by halfback Bob Bishop and quarterback Jimmy Boyd, Davidson gained 350 yards as compared to the Pirates' 180. Bishop garnered 101 yards on 23 carries as he charged through gaps created by a bruising offensive line. Reichelderfer, Bob Wetzel,Garner and Zack Varnadoe consistently ruled the scrimmage line. Boyd kept the Pirates honest as he completed eight of 15 passes for 150 yards. “It was definitely our best game," commented tri-captain Wetzel. “We had more yards on the ground and through the air, but our mistakes killed us.”

ECU, rated the best club team in the state, intercepted four passes and turned three of them into touchdowns. Another captain, Rollie White, agreed with Wetzel, saying, “We played really well. Considering the game was played at 10 a.m. after Friday night, we put in a super effort. The offensive line did a great job, and on defense we held them,” he continued. “Aiken and Long both made interceptions, and McShain, Reeves, and Yeoman did all that could be asked of them. Bill Bradford should be noted for his second consecutive successful onside kick.”

The game was a costly one for the Cats as Rollie White and Will Dunn were both injured and have been lost indefinitely. Still, the clubbers are optimistic. “We expect to win most of the remaining games,” said Wetzel. “The tough ones are over.” The next game will be Sunday at Western Piedmont. On Oct. 27, Davidson will play Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, a game to be televised throughout the state of Virginia.

Sailors Fall At Citadel
By TRACY CHARLES
Staff Writer

When The Citadel hosts a regatta and claims all three trophies, it seems fairly obvious that conditions indigenous to the area have played an extensive part in the victory. High tides and swift currents last weekend in Charleston placed each of the six teams in a compromised position. The Citadel and the College of Charleston placed first and second, demonstrating excellent tactics in the strong tides.

Daryl and crew Mike Mayer sailed as Davidson's A-team, showing surprising versatility in adapting lake tactics to ocean tactics. Subsequently, he tied for second place in his division. Frank Somerville and crew Tracy Charles were Davidson's B-team. A series of problems with currents and tides placed Somerville in fifth place. Davidson placed fourth in the overall final scoring.

This coming weekend Jim Stephenson and Dave Francis will represent Davidson at the University of Tennessee. Crews are yet to be selected.

shh! listening is an art
The Quiet Company
Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036
College Agents
Brad Tipler
Dick Richardson
Rollie White
Bill Smith
Mike Pappas

The Pika’s struggled to stay alive, just nipping S-IV 13-12. S-IV is improving daily. The SPE’s collected their first win over SAE-2. The KA’s took a while but finally got control to take a 27-0 victory over Miles Glorious. The MG’s spokesman Pete “the Mole” Calentano says that the MG’s will shut out the Delts in their next meeting. I refuse to comment.

(Staff Photo by Goodman)

SCRAMBLE
Bashful flickerball players vie for possession in IMAC competition.

Sunday 8 a.m. you awaken and make love of tomorrow...

Country Chalet (formerly Deals Grill)
PIZZA PERFECTO AND MANY OTHER NEW ITEMS