a

Freshperson Debbie Davis finds a unique mode of transportation in her unicycle. Although she stays dry here, Debbie faces a
long trek with her unicycle—up three flights of stairs to her room.

ALAN BLAKLEY

STEVE CANTERBURY

The Davidsonian November 30, 1973 Seven

‘How Do I Love Davidson, Let Me Count The Ways’

Now that all the students have been here at Davidson for at least one term, we feel that it is
fair to hold a student contest.

The contest is simple. In 25 words or less complete the sentence: ‘I LIKE DAVIDSON BECAUSE ...”

Keep in mind all of the advantages this small, quaint school has to offer. Remember the wholesome atmosphere of a
tiny community.

Recall that here everyone knows personally or knows of nearly everyone else so that people freely talk with or of
each other. There are no personal biases or prejudices here—we're all part of a jolly family.

And the faculty members, remember, are part of this family group. Keep in mind how they trust the students so
much that they allow students to take their exams any time of the day... as long as the sun is
shining.

They also respect our opinions—and don’t forget the faculty meetings that they often allow invited student body members to attend.

We're gracious and beholden.

Try to mention, in the 25-word answer, those evil townspeople whom the students have such a good influence upon. Though
the dark ones are often naughty, we righteously spank their hands and scold them “poo-poo.”

Remember the open stack, no-check library system that is so flawless that we never lose more than 500 books in
any given year.

Then there is the awful town called Mooresville to the north that Davidson students vastly improve by occasionally visiting.

And of course include the appreciated non-selective social system that is so respected that even off-campus groups respect it—though one
national off-campus group traditionally speeds up the system.

Student activities are a major part of anyone’s reason to appreciate and praise Davidson. The Student Government Association is so
well liked that upon the mere mention of it, the average student roars with laughter.

The administration so much believes in students’ extracurricular activities that they move the Student Union from one place to another
every three or four years so that all of the students will be happy with at least one of the
various locations.

Keep in mind all of these excellent points of Davidsoniana. If there are any problems, simply consult any of the
Davidson catalogues from the past five years and glance through them. They will give wonderful hints about what to appreciate
and praise.

PS. The winning entry was just judged. It reads as follows: I LIKE DAVIDSON BECAUSE I think that the campus
is so nice.

Editor’s Entry: We like Davidson because Steve writes DAVIDSONIAN articles.

shh!

we learn more by listening

The Quiet Company

Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036
College Agents

Brad Tipler
Dick Richardson
Bill Smith
Mike Pappas

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

HATTIES

HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30

IMPORTED BEER
Now Serving The “Hattie” Cheeseburger

WELCOME TO

WHAT-a-BURGER

MOORESVILLE, N.C.
