The Davidsonian
October 5, 1973

Students Plagued By Increased Thefts
By ANDY LAMAS
Contributing Editor

More money and personal belongings have been stolen from dormitory rooms this quarter than during all of last year. “It’s the worst year we’ve ever had with thefts totaling $2,000,” commented Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr. “We suspect about one-third of the thefts were made between Sept. 22-24, and we attribute most of this amount to one or two suspects,” added Meetze.

“Now suddenly the stealing has stopped ... and this seems to verify our notion that only one or two boys committed most of the thefts,” claimed Dean of Students Will Terry. A composite drawing of one of the suspects was created through the combined efforts of the Davidson police force and several students. The suspected thief had “long blonde hair, a scraggly mustache, and wire-rim glasses,” according to Davidson police files. “There were rumors about a boy who fits the description being picked up by the Cornelius police,” added Terry, “but whatever the case, students just need to be very security conscious from now on.”

Tad Barnes, a sophomore living in Sentelle dormitory, suffered the greatest losses during the recent thefts. “My camera and a good deal of photo equipment, valued at $700, was stolen from my room,” commented Barnes. Most of the thefts involved small, but valuable, items like watches, billfolds, and pocket cameras. “I had a watch and my wallet with $60 stolen,” remarked Bill Chappell. Bob Whitaker and Roddy Grey, roommates on the second floor of Cannon, had a pocket Nikon camera, a billfold, two watches, and a class ring stolen. Several students in Cannon and Sentelle commented that they had seen the suspect. “I even remember showing the guy my camera... which he stole a few hours later,” recalled Whitaker.

Some students have already begun to take precautions against further thefts. “We’re going to put locks on our cabinets,” affirmed Dave Cellon. Most security officers seem to think students should become acquainted with all of their neighbors and immediately report any suspicious characters. “So this puts a lot of responsibility on students, since policemen aren’t -- and shouldn’t -- be allowed in the dorms until students call for them,” commented Meetze. “If anything looks suspicious, don’t hesitate to call campus security,” Campus Security Officer Ray Sherrill stated.

College To Feature ‘Life’ Programs Series
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Managing Editor

“It seems to us that this is one of the purposes of a liberal arts education,” commented Dean of Students Will Terry. He was talking about a series of lectures and discussions that will run throughout this year at Davidson College. The series will feature speakers on six subjects of common interest to every person. They are birth and childhood, adolescence, vocation, marriage, aging, and death.

The discussions have been planned for the freshman class. However, upperclassmen are welcomed to form their own discussion groups. Terry encouraged, “If upperclassmen would like to participate, we would be happy to assist them in forming discussion groups.” The lecture-discussion sessions will begin on Oct. 10 when Dr. Catherine Taylor will speak on the subject of birth and childhood. She teaches at the University of North Carolina's medical school and is a practicing pediatrician and child psychologist. After Taylor’s lecture, freshmen will meet with their faculty advisors and hall counselors to discuss the ideas presented and their reactions to the speech. Terry stressed the need for attending the lecture before participating in the discussion group. “We don’t want people just sitting around pooling ignorance,” he explained.

Other lecture-discussions will run throughout the year. On Oct. 28, Ms. Martha Stuart, an independent video tape producer, will speak on adolescence. Stuart produces a series called “Are You Listening” for educational and cable stations. She has worked with such organizations as Planned Parenthood and specializes in “making social change through human exchange.” Just before Christmas vacation, Davidson will host a lecture-discussion on vocations. The last three sessions of the year will take place between Christmas and the middle of Spring term. The discussion on aging will coincide with a College Union symposium on the subject.

About 200 freshmen have agreed to participate in the program. However, discussions will be held on a basis of hall participation only. That is: a substantial majority of freshmen on each hall must agree to actively attend the discussions. The lectures will be open to anyone. Terry cited this policy because one of the primary goals of the program is to develop a sense of unity within each freshman hall community. Since this policy cannot apply to sophomores, juniors, and seniors who may be interested in the program, interested persons should contact Terry to talk about getting discussion groups together.

Terry sees two primary goals for the series. 1) He hopes to create a sense of community within discussion groups, and 2) He hopes that, by sharing ideas and feelings about themselves, participants may gain some sense of their own value structure.

Students should leave their doors locked, especially on weekends, according to Terry. “We’re most vulnerable to thefts during weekend football and basketball games and during meal times,” he said. All thefts should be reported immediately to campus security, and a report of all stolen articles should be completed in the Student Housing Office or the Dean’s Office, he said. “The form should be filled out even...if you think there is no hope of recovering the lost articles because the police can be aided by any additional information,” Director of Student Housing Scotty Nichols remarked. The third floors of Belk, Cannon, and Sentelle dormitories have been burglarized more than any other areas of student housing.

Debaters Emerge Victorious In First Season Competition
By CHARLES KENNON
Staff Writer

“Resolved: That the federal government should control the utilization and supply of energy in the United States.” That is the official proposal for the 1973-74 national debate season. At the start of the school year, Davidson debaters began work on the subject and their effort paid off last weekend. At the Washington and Lee Invitational Debate Tournament in Lexington, Va., three out of four Davidson teams took high honors. The debaters won both varsity and novice divisions. The teams are composed of two men each. The first varsity team of Robert Mooty and John Munce went 6-0 in the preliminary rounds and overcame a powerful University of Richmond team in the championship round by a 5-1 score.

Yearlong Terry warned, “It’s (the discussion) not designed to be an encounter group.” Terry said that faculty reaction has been generally favorable. “Let’s say that the faculty has generally been anxious to cooperate, though I have been puzzled by some reactions,” he commented. The series will probably be a one-year project. If it is continued next year, different topics will be discussed. The idea for these lecture-discussions was formulated this summer by Terry, Director of Extended Studies Randall R. Kincaid, Campus Minister Rush Otey, and Professor of German Hansford Epps. Student reactions to the proposal were generally favorable. “I think there’s not enough handling of these problems. It’s something we're surrounded with all the time,” commented sophomore John Munce. “It is a college responsibility. If you're going to take as your part the liberal arts education, this should be a part of it,” he added. However, sophomore Bill Beasley expressed concern over Terry’s methods. “The only harmful thing I see in the whole program is that Will wants you to participate as a hall.” Sophomores Dan Thorp and Niel Lenhoff said that apathy may be a problem. “By the type of topics they seem uncontroversial and would lead to apathy,” said Lenhoff. Terry, however, hopes that the program will be a meaningful one for the entire college community.

The second varsity team consisted of Paul Mitchell, the captain of the forensics squad, and William Bond. They finished with a 4-2 record and fifth place. The novice team (made up of those in their first year of debate) of Tony Snow and Peyton Marshall, both freshmen, went 5-0 and won their division by beating Old Dominion. Twelve colleges and universities sent a total of 32 debate teams. Mitchell said, “I was real pleased with the tournament, particularly the novices. My main concern is that they stick with the team. They have as much talent as the rest of the school put together.” He went on to say that the academic load at Davidson is too heavy for some students to put the necessary amount of work into the program. “It takes close to three hours a day of research into the subject to present an effective argument. We have the ability at this school to be a real debate power but there aren’t enough hours in the day to do the job right,” Mitchell added. He listed the University of North Carolina and Wake Forest as schools with strong debate programs. “They give debaters academic credit for it and have budgets that are 10 times as large as ours.”

Ms. Jean Cornell, team director, was pleased with the progress made in the team and program over the last few years. “About four years ago we had only five people in debate. This year is the biggest ever. There are 22 involved, including nine freshmen and two girls,” she said. Cornell looks forward to a great future in debate at Davidson. “I’m optimistic. Those who enroll in the official debate seminar must stay in for the whole year. Very few have dropped out. Most of those in the seminar are freshmen and a lot of them have taken it in high school.” One of those who took it in high school is freshman Curt Goho. He has quit debate. Goho said that “the whole thing takes up too much time. And anyone in it has to be really dedicated. You can’t just go out there and throw a lot of bull or the judges will kill you.” Goho said that he didn’t know if he would rejoin now.

The debate calendar for the rest of the year is highlighted by several large east coast tournaments. On Oct. 20 the team goes to a local novice debate at Lenoir Rhyne. On Oct. 26, there is a Chapel Hill debate for the varsity. In November there will be trips to Emory, Wake Forest, and Princeton. Plans for the far future aren't finalized yet but Cornell said, “Eventually we will enter contests where we have individual events. These include oral interpretations, extemporaneous and impromptu speaking, and even radio and T.V. commentary.”

SYMBOLIC STEEPLE
The spire of Davidson Presbyterian Church is symbolic of the support of Presbyterians throughout North Carolina with their contributions to the Queens-Davidson drive. The drive is currently in the last phase of its operation.