Zhe Bavidsanian
September 28, 1973
Page Three

Grey Library To Accommodate Union?
By CHARLIE SHEPERD
Managing Editor

By the middle of next year, or earlier, Davidson students may have a bigger and more accessible College Union. At a meeting on Oct. 25-26, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. will ask the Board of Trustees to formally approve placement of the Union in Grey Library. Soon afterward, plans for renovation of the building will be drawn up by the Union Board, in cooperation with Physical Plant Director Grover C. Meetze Jr. These plans, however, depend on the construction schedule of the E. H. Little Library, now being built.

“We are very hopeful that the new library will be finished about commencement,” said Spencer. He added that the books will probably be transferred over the summer months. Spencer set the start of the fall term next year as the target for beginning renovations on Grey Library. He added that installing facilities for a snack bar would be the only major hold-up in the renovations.

Spencer agreed that, ideally, a new Union situated near Patterson Court should be built. The new Union would be most convenient to students if it were located here, especially after the new housing complex is finished. However, he listed several difficulties in building an immediate Union of this sort.

Smith Investigates Renovation Project
By MARK WILENSKY
Staff Writer

Although College Union Director C. Shaw Smith feels that the need for a new Union is critical, he is encouraged over the prospect of setting up a temporary Union in Grey Library. Smith said that while Grey Library will allow the Union considerably more space, it is doubtful that it can be renovated to house even the existing Union program. The Union Board plans to make use of other campus facilities while setting up the “intermediate Union” as a center for student life.

“Even a temporary or intermediate Union must contain four things in order to become a central gathering place for students,” said Smith. “We must have a first-rate snack bar, a student store, an adequate game room, and a student post office included in any successful Union building,” he added.

The need for a post office or post office substation has been brought about because the current facility is so overtaxed that two students are now sharing some post office boxes. Enlarging the present building would be at College expense, since the college owns the building and rents it to the United States Postal Service.

Smith said that because of the location of Grey Library, the Union would tend to be convenient for both students and faculty during the day, although the distance from the dormitories and social functions of Patterson Court might be an inconvenience at night. Union Board President Joe Earle said that any inconvenience presented due to Grey Library's location would be small on a campus of this size, and he said that students will not mind a slight inconvenience if the Union can add something to student life. Both he and Smith expressed hopes that a new Union would be built in the near future, preferably close to the dorms and Patterson Court. The area around Lingle Manor would be ideal, they said.

Plans are now being drawn by the Union Board in the hope that renovation of the building can begin immediately after the books are moved out, with the building being ready for use as a Union by January 1, 1975. Still in the early stages, the plans will include a large lobby, at least one multiple-use room with moveable partitions so that the room can be used for a variety of purposes, increased office space for student organizations, a larger, more usable bar, and possibly a movie theater. Before any plans are finalized, a questionnaire will be sent to students, soliciting their views on how to best allocate the space available. The final plans should be ready during mid-Spring of this year.

Smith stressed the need for a new permanent Union and voiced the fear, “Once we get in and make it work, some people will be satisfied. If the students allow that attitude to develop, we may be without the new Union we so desperately need for a long time.”

The House

While Grey Library will provide an intermediate Union for the Davidson College community, College Union Director C. Shaw Smith has submitted a proposal for an approximately 100,000 square foot Union to be built in the future. The proposal was submitted to the Budget, Building and Grounds Sub-committee on Planning and was included in its interim report on campus planning. Smith's proposal was necessarily advisory; however, it expressed the hopes of the Union Board concerning the needs of the new Union. Smith said that much ofWhat was included in his proposal was based on the results of last year’s student questionnaire on the subject. 

Report: "It would be a very expensive building," said Spencer. "It would probably cost between $3 million and $4 million for the new Union." Spencer sees no real prospect of starting a new fundraising drive at the present time. The fundraising drive for the new library has obscured this possibility for now, because the pledges on that building run for three years. Also, the time element is a problem. "Any major building takes about three years, at least," commented Spencer. 

The president hesitated to call the renovated library a temporary answer. "Frankly, I think a more accurate term would be an intermediate range solution," he said. Spencer suggested that Grey Library would serve the students as a Union for around five or six years. Because of this, there will necessarily be a fairly extensive renovation of it. Finally, Spencer wondered whether a new Union would take first place among numerous other long-range projects. The college needs a new gym, and the Fine Arts department is bulging out of Cunningham Fine Arts Center. Also, science facilities must be considered in the long-range scheme. "I’m not sure the Union would get first priority in students' listing at this point," said Spencer. 

The renovated library will not be ideally situated. However, it will be convenient for daytime traffic. Spencer pointed out that the area most frequented in the daytime includes Chambers Building, Martin and Dana Science Buildings, Jackson Court, and the E. H. Little Library which will be finished at the end of this year. Davidson’s campus is small enough so that other areas will not be a long distance from the Union. The president said that the building fortunately will not need many structural changes. The stacks and even the mezzanine floor can be taken apart like an erector set. Several of the present divisions will be satisfactory for meeting rooms, game rooms, and television rooms. The large entrance area will encourage students to use the Union, Spencer said. 

Meetze does not believe that there will be any serious structural problems that could hinder use of the building as an intermediate College Union. "It’s structurally sound," said Meetze. "The mechanics can be updated without any trouble." The air conditioning system, however, will have to be updated, according to the physical plant director. Spencer feels that the areas which should definitely have space in the intermediate Union should be a post office, the student store, and a snack bar well enough equipped to serve a hot lunch. In addition, the offices for the Union board, student clubs, and publications will necessarily be placed in the Union. 

Will the renovated library be a satisfactory Student Center? The interim report emphasized the following facilities:
1) A 3,450 square foot entrance lobby and lounge would provide a mall for "a center of community activity."
2) A movie theater with permanent seats and a platform stage is needed for Union films, speakers, and informal theatrics.
3) Obviously, the cramped quarters of student and Union offices in the present building show a need for more and better organized space. Space should be available for all Union and student activities, including Senate chambers; a Union office complex; and offices for the YM/YWCA, THE DAVIDSONIAN, the Miscellany, Quips and Cranks, the Black Student Coalition, the North Carolina Fellows, and three unassigned offices for additional space. Smith suggested that all student offices should have outside entrances.
4) Smith planned a multi-use Morrison Room which would be equipped with moveable partitions. The room would divide into seating for 150, 250, or 400 persons with a total capacity of 650.
5) In addition to this room, Smith has asked for four 300 square foot meeting rooms, five private dining rooms, two party rooms, two suites for visiting speakers and performers, and two television rooms.
6) Adequate space for WDAV to operate is needed.
7) Dining facilities constitute a large part of the Union Director’s proposal. He suggests a Davidson Inn providing seated food service, a cafeteria, a snackbar, and an enlarged Rathskellar.
8) A number of games rooms would provide students and faculty with eight bowling lanes, eight billiard tables, eight ping pong tables, and a room with 10 game machines in it.
9) A post office, which has been scheduled for the Union in Grey Library, would be transferred to the new Union. 

Other features include a rally area, a drama and presentation area, terrace lounges, and a parking lot-program area. These are only the highlights of the 102,640 square foot Union building.