Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Che Vol. LAT. No. Twenty-Two

AaviNaontan

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

April 13, 1973

Faculty Vote Continues Honors College

By BOB HOWELL
Managing Editor

The faculty voted this week to continue the Honors College for a three-year trial period, by a vote of 38-37 with one abstention.

“After a lot of debate, the faculty voted to accept in principle a report written by Drs. Johnston, MacCormac and Bevan,” said College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. “It is recommended,” reads the report, “that the Honors College be continued at Davidson College for a period of three years, to be reviewed during the third year of its operation (1975-76) by the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) of the Faculty.”

The recommendation included suggestions for improving the operation of the Honors College as it now exists. At the faculty meeting previous to the one Tuesday, the faculty had referred to the EPC a proposal to abolish the Honors College as a separate institution and incorporate honors level studies into the college's regular curriculum. The EPC met again with the Committee for Evaluation of the Honors College and with Johnston, MacCormac and Bevan to discuss with them their set of recommendations. Tuesday the EPC brought back to the faculty both proposals for discussion. Also submitted were a petition signed by 591 students in favor of continuing the Honors College for a three-year trial period and a letter protesting the petition. Steve Dodd and Miles Ward, student members of the EPC, were allowed to speak on the question. Bevan said the recommendations were distillations of discussions on the Honors College's weaknesses that he, Johnston and MacCormac had held since last spring. He was disappointed, however, that a formal evaluation of the Honors College had been conducted so early. “The proposal will be reworked in light of the faculty's discussion and will come back to the faculty for final approval,” Spencer explained. “You can almost always find bases for discontinuing a very young program,” he observed. “I think we've lost a year in the process.”

College Police Force Active, Fewer Campus Thefts Result

By MICHAEL FANNER
Managing Editor

In the first six months of this academic year, thefts on the Davidson campus are down drastically over previous years. In a semi-annual evaluation of the security situation released this week, the amount of unrecovered stolen booty from the dorms is valued at less than $100 as opposed to over $8000 last year. According to Director of Physical Plant Grover Meets, this improvement is the result of intensified police surveillance. “I believe the patrol cars should take most of the credit,” he said. “Potential thieves are beginning to realize that we aren't such easy prey anymore; this is a major deterrent in itself,” Meets added. Meets is referring to the system of security instituted this year by the college, whereby all crime control on the campus is handled directly through the Davidson police station, rather than through members of the campus security force. “This year, our communications are so much better; all one has to do is call the police station in case of any trouble and they can dispatch a car by radio in seconds.” Meets also stated that the cooperation shown by the students is a major factor in the theft drop. “Students seem willing to call the police if they see something wrong. I think they are beginning to realize that the police are there for their benefit,” Meets said.

DAVIDSONIAN Awarded

THE DAVIDSONIAN was rated the best non-daily college paper in the Ninth Annual Eastern College Newspaper Competition. Former DAVIDSONIAN Editor Rich Wilson, under whose editorship the paper was entered, received notification of the first place award this week by the judges of the competition. “The Southeastern competition is one of the major contests we enter each year,” said Wilson. “To walk off with the top award in the non-daily category is a real tribute to the hard work of the staff. THE DAVIDSONIAN has maintained a reputation of excellence in college journalism, and I'm happy the papers we published this fall continued this tradition,” he said. Sponsored by Hollins College in conjunction with eight metropolitan dailies including the New York Times and the Richmond Times-Dispatch, the competition is one of the most prestigious in the country.

---Raleigh News and Observer, the judges of the competition evaluated over 200 entries from Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee, Virginia, and West North Carolina, South Mitch Purvis, chairman of the SGA Security committee, concurred with Meetz that the new systems of security are more effective than the old. “I think, though, that the system needs to be kept under constant evaluation; this is the main responsibility of our committee,” he said. Purvis continued, saying that, “the students should feel free to express opinions and criticisms about the system in hopes that it could continue to do a thorough job and to prohibit it from becoming what the students wouldn’t want.”

A development of the Honors College recommended changes include renaming the Honors College building the Center for Honors Studies and establishing a council to review the center's progress each term and present an annual report to the EPC and faculty. The honors faculty — “at least six...preferably seven” — would continue to teach no more than a half-load in their regular departments, teaching at the Center for Honors Studies for terms of usually one, two, or three years. Honors students desiring a major in a regular department could comply with the requirements of the department to its satisfaction, though not every honors student need have a major in a specific discipline. The proposal further recommends that interdisciplinary majors not be “superficial programs that are inferior to the normal work done at Davidson College,” and suggests a yearly “common educational experience” involving all the students and faculty of the Center for Honors Studies. (See HONORS, Page 12)

(Staff photo by Goodman)

FOOTBALL AT OPEN END

The debate continues on subsidization.

Open End Covers Subsidized Athletics Benefits And Woes

By HARRIETT HODGES
News Editor

Davidson football coach Dave Fagg said that Davidson had “no business being a part of the Southern Conference if we stand for what we say we do” in an Open End discussion Tuesday night. “Do you realize that the Southern Conference is one of the few without any academic regulations? I've got a real opinion about the Southern Conference and our business in it,” Fagg said.

As an alternative to Southern Conference affiliation, Davidson could play non-subsidized football, according to Fagg. “But I think there are a lot of misconceptions about non-subsidized football,” Fagg said. “It still costs a lot of money, and it’s still hard work.”

Biology Professor David Grant, representing the Faculty Committee on Athletics, concurred saying, “Non-subsidized football might be more expensive because there are no non-subsidized opponents in the area, and this would necessitate traveling long distances to play.”

Fagg said that he had heard a lot of talk about the lack of success of the football team. “I think so much of the time we relate this lack of success to basketball success. If you'd give the football team the same opportunity for success as the basketball team has, I'd leave after four years if we didn't give you what you'd consider a success,” he said.

“It sounds like the students, faculty, and administration are not behind subsidizing football,” Fagg said. “Whatever we do with our athletic program, we need your 100 percent support,” he added.

Grant reported on the Montreat conference on athletics. Members of the faculty, administration, student body, and trustees met to discuss the future of subsidized athletics. “No conclusions came from that meeting,” Grant said. “Lots of alternatives were discussed, but no recommendations were made.

“There are lots of ways of looking at the question of subsidization,” he said. “A personal viewpoint of mine is that it may not be possible to keep all programs, both athletic and academic, that we would like. While athletics are important, we should maintain a priority on academics,” he continued.

Grant said that the ultimate question was which system would be the best for Davidson. “I'm not sure under what circumstances Davidson should play athletics,” Grant said. “I like the idea of people playing sports because they enjoy doing it,” he said.

The debate among the approximately 80 students present and the panel members raged on for two and one-half hours without any conclusions being reached. A variety of viewpoints were expressed and contested by others present. The panel consisted of Fagg, Grant, SGA President Bo Phillips, and former football player Mike Creasman.