The Davidsonian - February 2, 1973 Page Nine

Holland Hoping To Run Against VMI
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Asst. Sports Editor

Terry Holland is not letting his Wildcats look ahead to the rematch with Furman. He has good reasons for doing so. With West Virginia playing host to the Cats tomorrow night and VMI lurking around the corner, Davidson must be prepared for everything. The Mountaineers, though not sporting their great records of the past, are always tough on their home court. A Davidson team has not beaten the Mountaineers at home more than twice in the past three decades. Holland is very much aware of this fact and is out to change it tomorrow.

“West Virginia is not having one of their better seasons,” explained Holland. “But they have lost to some good teams. Since we are playing them up there, we will really have to be on our toes,” explained the Wildcat mentor. “They are real tough at home.”

The Mountaineers are not extremely deep. They will play cautiously, so as to avoid any foul trouble. “I expect them to play more of a control game than they have in past years,” commented Holland. “They are very young, starting a freshman and a sophomore.”

“They do change their offenses and defenses regularly during games,” said the four-year veteran head coach. “I am looking for them to run in spots.”

The Wildcats’ game plan will be virtually the same that fans have seen all season. “We will try to make them run the entire contest,” said Holland. “We think we are much deeper than they are. We feel running would be extremely advantageous to us.”

Look for the Wildcats defensively to go from a full-court zone press to a man-to-man alignment, hoping to keep the Mountaineers off balance. In the VMI encounter, Holland looks for the “usual tough game that they always play.”

Cagers Lose Conference Lead
By JOE EARLE
Sports Editor

The Davidson cagers lost their lead in the Southern Conference in grand style to Furman last week before bounding back to their second win over an ACC challenger, Wake Forest, and a win over East Carolina.

The Cats fought off a late-game surge by the Pirates at Greenville, N.C. Wednesday night to upend ECU 73-62. East Carolina was only able to take the lead twice during the game, both times early in the first half, and the Cats were able to maintain an eight to ten-point margin for much of the contest. Greg Dunn led the Cat scorers with 16 points followed closely by T. J. Pecorak with 14. The ECU win put the Cats at 11-7 for the season and pushed their conference standing to 5-1.

The Furman Paladins defeated the Cats 102-84 last Thursday in Greenville, S.C. Prior to that match, the two teams were tied, undefeated in conference contests, and were vying for the lead in the SC. That game turned into a disaster for the Davidson cagers early in the second quarter when Furman built up a quick 10-point lead. From there, the Paladins controlled the game and the Cats fell as much as 20 points behind during some stretches of play.

The game was dominated by the referees, who called 79 fouls during the course of the match. Davidson racked up 41 personals to Furman’s 38. Three Davidson players and one Furman man fouled out. There were several periods during the game when the two teams could not move from one end of the court to the other without one or more fouls called.

The Paladins handily outshot the Davidson players, hitting 65 percent from the floor to the Cats’ 36 percent. Team percentage shooter T.J. Pecorak hit only two of 11 from the floor. Paul Wagner came off the bench to lead the Cat scorers with 16 points, followed by wing John Falconi who added 13. Falconi led Davidson under the boards with nine rebounds.

Just as the South Carolina game pointed out the weaknesses of the Cats’ press, the Furman game showed the height problems that have plagued the cagers all year. Still, the Cats held their own under the boards with 47 rebounds compared with 49 for the Paladins. Sheldon Parker came into the contest in an effort to combat Furman's natural height advantage and added 10 points and three rebounds.

After the loss to Furman, the Davidson team returned to Charlotte to down Wake Forest 86-82. Larry Horowitz came off...the bench in that game to help the Cats preserve a halftime lead that was endangered several times in the third and fourth quarters. Horowitz led Davidson in both the scoring and rebounding columns with 21 points and 11 rebounds. Close behind Horowitz in scoring was Dunn who hit 19 points. Dunn had only been able to contribute nine in the effort at Furman.

PROGRESSING AFTER INJURY
Parker ‘Key To Cage Future’
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Asst. Sports Editor

Whenever a left-handed hook shot sweeps smoothly from the baseline through the nets in Johnston Gym, one will usually find Sheldon Parker at the point of origin. The 6-8 sophomore not only displays the soft touch with the hook, but also has a great deal of desire to compete and succeed.

“One of the greatest assets that Sheldon has,” explained Davidson head coach Terry Holland, “is his determination.” With his preseason injury, he missed most of the early workout with the team. He has had to make up quite a bit since then.

“His injury slowed him down tremendously as far as getting in the practice and experience that the rest of the guys have had,” said Holland. “But he has worked hard in practice. He is coming along great.”

Parker's size is another asset to the Wildcats. He is one of the bigger players on the team. With a 220-pound frame, he can also afford to knock it out under the boards with any big man.

“Sheldon has come in and given us some big performances in key games,” praised the Wildcat head coach. “In the Duke contest he was very effective. He also had good games against William and Mary and East Carolina.”

In the Duke encounter, Parker came into the game and connected on five of five from the field. He also played a good game under the boards, trying to offset the big men in the Blue Devil front line. Seeing only a limited amount of action thus far, Parker has not had the opportunity to get much actual playing experience. In 11 contests, he has hit 18 of 28 from the field for a .643 shooting percentage.

“Sheldon has good speed and quickness which should make him a good defensive player for the future,” predicted Holland. “He should figure prominently in Davidson basketball.”

“His hard-working attitude and his determination to catch up with the other players are going to take him up to the place where he is supposed to be,” said Holland. “He still needs some more polish on offense as well as some more experience on the defensive angle,” Holland commented. “He is not afraid to get under the boards and fight it out in the roughest situations. That is the kind of player you want on your front line.”

As the experience and opportunities begin to mount up, Parker heads for his big chance in the starting front line for the Wildcats.

The Keydets have five starters returning from last year's squad. “They are a good bunch of shooters,” Holland commented. “I think that they will try to control the tempo of the game and look for the good shot.”

The Keydets are 5-10 thus far and will be looking for a big upset. The Wildcats need a win badly to continue a streak for a three-game stretch at home against three conference foes, the last of which is Furman.

Junior guard John Falconi still leads the Cats in the scoring column with a 16.6 average. Greg Dunn follows Falconi with a 13.8 clip. T. Jay Pecorak and Mike Sorrentino round out the double-figure scorers at 11.0 and 10.7, respectively.

Five Cats are shooting at a 50 percent mark or better. Larry Horowitz paces this department with a .536 average. Dunn and Pecorak are next at .507. Horowitz and Dunn are also the top two in the board statistics, hauling in an average of 5.2 and 5.1 rebounds per game, respectively. As a team, the Cats are getting 31.4 rebounds to their opponents' 35.2.

Sorrentino has handed out 81 assists to date, while Falconi has found the mark for 63. These two also lead the free throw shooting with Falconi hitting 81 percent and Sorrentino 80 percent from the charity stripe.

The three-game home stand for the Cats will include the Citadel, Furman, and Appalachian. The conclusion of this year's regular season schedule will be a contest with the Flyers of Dayton in Ohio. The Cats will then head for Richmond and the Southern Conference Tournament, which will determine the extent of Davidson's post-season competition.