Six (Staff photo by Goodman)

IT HAPPENS AT MIDNIGHT
November 9, 1973
The Davidsonian

STEVE CANTERBURY

Last night, I watched the freshmen. I simply sat in the ARA late-night spot-to-be and, with a limp turkey and
lettuce on white bread in my gnarled hand, I watched the freshmen. The first term is always the most interesting
of any year. It is in that term that attitudes, policies, ideals, and promises are made for the rest of
the year. And it is the freshman class that determines so very much of the coming year. It is that
new class that brings forth new life to a would-be stagnant school. Almost overwhelming in their fresh attitudes, they display
openness and honesty that is so extremely genuine and so extremely unique in this hollow place. They are the bravest
of cowards, the wisest of fools. They speak wide-mouthed. They grasp with open arms. And they give with open hands.

During last week's Halloween festivities, many students took the time to design interesting costumes like the Pumpkin head pictured above
for a party in the basement of Chambers.

"M*A*S*H" contains some hairline episodes as a team of army surgeons attempt to supplement their full-time schedules at the operating
table of a Korean War mobile army surgical hospital with a stream of exhausting diversions. Before the camera turned, the
actors were encouraged to improvise. The comic stylization of the actors, especially Sally Kellerman, Donald Sutherland, Elliott Gould, Indus Arthur,
Roger Bowen, and Rud Cort, are excellent as is Director Robert Altman’s handling of his cast generally. The editing seems
to be a valiant attempt to save an already botched affair, reflecting a need for more formal planning by Altman
as he was shooting "M*A*S*H". The film lacks structure and continuity, often tending to break down into disjointed scenes, some
of which are hardly good at all.

INSIDIOUS - Awaiting a chance to ensnare, intending or intended to entrap; wily, sly; treacherous. (Webster's Collegiate Dictionary.)

The best American film of the year is now playing at the Park Terrace Theater in Charlotte, "American Graffiti." The
action takes place in one night in late August, 1962. Four friends graduated from high school the previous June, and
two of them are leaving for college the next day, maybe. They decide to go to the high school dance,
which starts a night they will long remember. The characters in "American Graffiti" are familiar to everyone. There's the all-American
boy, his all-American girlfriend, the intellectual, the creep, and the adolescent hero who never grows up. Each one has a
night during which he or she celebrates his youth, and at the same time realizes that he or she will
never have this particular moment again. It is an insidious film, one which traps you in its snare of nostalgia
so well that you catch yourself dreaming of a time before college, before Nixon. The stars, Richard Dreyfuss, Ronnie Howard,
Paul Le Mat, and Charles Martin Smith, are all superb. George Lucas’ direction is tight and fast-paced. The set, the
costumes, the mood are all perfect. This movie grabs you and stays with you long after you leave the theater.
Music by Chuck Berry, the Beach Boys, etc. makes "American Graffiti" a standard by which all “nostalgia” movies will be
measured. For probably the most enjoyable time you will have at any movie, at any time, don’t miss "American Graffiti."

Reel to Reel Reviews
"M*A*S*H"

The best part of "M*A*S*H" is the climactic football sequence. Our madcap surgeons, enticed by bets from a rival division,
decide to organize an impromptu football team. The play-by-play and sidelines commentary came from the cheerleading squad. Major Hot Lips
Houlihan (Kellerman) leads the bunch, but she really doesn’t understand the game. "That’s a foul, Hot Lips, you blithering idiot,"
the coach responds. The football sequence is a smashing strip of celluloid. Only a couple of scenes, "The Last Supper"
and "Hot Lips in the Shower," manage to approach the quality of the football sequence. Other than these three scenes
and a few moments saved by acting, "M*A*S*H" proves to be somewhat weak, but still a fine, friendly film. "M*A*S*H"
has been held over at the Manor Theater in Charlotte.

Unfortunately, they also hear with open ears. What they hear is pure Davidsoniana. It is the same Davidsoniana...that molds all
to a standard form. It is this mold that is so very sad about Davidson life. The freshmen come in
as individuals—as distinct personalities—and each leaves as “The Davidson Graduate.” Not that this label is a bad one—attending this place
for the full four years “entitles” one to it. But it is time that we—“The Soon-to-be Davidson Graduates”—took a hard
look at that label. We need to discern just what it means. And we can best look at it through
the freshmen. As was previously mentioned, they come as individuals. They bring, potentially, improvement to the life here. But the
system stifles almost immediately what input they would make. The members of the system put strong pressure on each freshman
to study quietly, turn an apathetic head, and be as constantly unaware as possible. Even their social life—and their enjoyment
of it—is more or less dictated to them. The members of the system soon make it very plain that those
individuals in the class who remain individuals and try to work to improve upon a questionable institution will be tagged
“turkeys” or labeled “flamers” or, worst of all, simply ignored. And so the majority of the freshmen do the more
expedient thing—they conform. It comes quickly. At ARA last night I saw freshmen emulations of the very coolly systemized upperclassmen.

Perhaps this undisguised column is a waste of my breath and your time. My grandfather always said (and quite correctly)
that I was “windier than a bag full of assholes.” But if the gentle breeze that I create can cause
only a quick glance at what we have here (and what we haven't), then my hot air is perhaps justified.
The point is simple. Each freshman comes a potential sculptor. But he is never given a chance to work his
art. Rather, he is poured into the crumbling, sterile Plaster of Paris mold that is ailingly called Davidson College.

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Asst. Features Editor

“The Effects of Gamma Rays On Man-In-The-Moon Marigolds” will be presented by the Central Piedmont Community College Drama Club, Nov.
15 and 16 at 8:15 p.m. Paul Zindel’s Pulitzer Prize-winning script offers a poignant and dramatic experience. It combines moments
of pain, beauty, and hope. It is the most compelling work of its kind since Tennessee Williams’ “The Glass Menagerie.”
Tickets are available in the drama office of the CPCC bookstore, and are $1.50 in advance; $2 at the door.

“What The Butler Saw,” a satire by Joe Orton, will be staged at the Little Theatre of Charlotte for the
last of its seven-performance run. The plot of “What The Butler Saw” revolves around the consequences of a man's belief
that the best way to interview a girl for a job is to seduce her. In the play, the lady
is more than willing to interfere with the simple seduction, but the complications which arise are multiple and hilarious. After
an aroused wife, a recalcitrant bellhop, a hospital in-patient, and a policeman become involved, the loose ends of the plot
are tied up by an unexpected twist in the vein of “The Importance of Being Earnest.” Performances will be next
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 8:15 p.m. Tickets are $4 for adults and $2 for students.

A collection of silkscreens and etchings by Lucius DuBose, a professor of art at Peabody College in Nashville, Tenn., is
on display in Gallery 501 of the Mint Museum of Art. Prominent in the collection is DuBose’s series of prints
of exotic American birds. The paintings and drawings by S. Loudine also continue to be shown at the Mint. DuBose’s
work investigates the comic best way to interview a girl for a job. The exhibit includes works of such painters
as Paul van Somer, Sir Peter Lely, John Constable, and more recent, John Ruskin.

Warner Von Braun, noted physicist, will speak at a Charlotte-Mecklenburg School Convocation Nov. 16 at 10:30 a.m. in the school
auditorium. Free tickets may be obtained by calling the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools office.
