Page Two May 4, 1973

Photo by Rodrigues: DAVIDSON AND SPENCER
Dr. Robert Franklin Davidson receives his degree.

Senate Votes ‘Thumbs Down’ On Subsidized Football Issue

Hall $1500 for the encounter weekends he has held was also passed this week. Miles Ward said that Hall has agreed to hold three more weekends next fall.

By HARRIET HODGES
News Editor

The Senate passed a resolution calling for the de-subsidization of Davidson College inter-collegiate football in its meeting this week. The resolution was proposed by Steve Bell, who attended the recent athletic conference at Montreat. Bell said that “de-subsidized football would save money" according to what he had learned.

“I personally am in favor of de-subsidization of football and basketball,” Bell said. “However, I don't think there is a chance for the de-subsidization of basketball now. There is for football. I'm willing to work on one thing at a time,” he said.

Steve Dodd, a student representative to the Faculty Educational Policy Committee (EPC), reported to the Senate on the revision of the drop-add period. Dodd said that current plans are for reducing the drop period to about five days and extending the add period for about a half of a day more. “This is because students have been failing to drop courses early enough for other students to pick them up.” Miles Ward, another student representative to the EPC said, “This is an attempt to keep people from getting locked out of the courses they need.” Dodd said that the basic idea was to make the add period longer than the drop period. The Senate passed a motion to show their disapproval of a drop period of less than 10 days.

Amendments concerning the Union Board and the Social Council were passed in Tuesday's meeting. The Senate also passed an amendment placing the Dorm Social Council under the direction of the Union Board instead of the Senate. A motion to pay Dr. Meredith $1500 for the encounter weekends he has held was also passed this week. Miles Ward said that Hall has agreed to hold three more weekends next fall.

Meredith Awards Presented At Spring Convocation

Eighteen Davidson men were elected to Omicron Delta Kappa, and eight students were given other major awards at Spring Convocation last Friday.

From the Class of 1973, Ralph L. Ely, William N. Eskridge, Michael D. Kelly, William R. Meier, Steven W. Suflas, James R. Thompson, and Richard V. Wilson were elected to Omicron Delta Kappa. Also elected to the national leadership fraternity were Garrett S. Bressler, Fred Douglas Brown Jr., Alexander H. Hoon Jr., Jerry C. Godbehere, Mark D. Monson, Robert D. Phillips Jr., and Miles A. Ward from the Class of 1974. Faculty elected to Omicron Delta Kappa were J. N. Burnett, David C. Grant, Donald L. Kimmel, and Randall R. Kincaid Jr.

Receiving the David Howard Chemistry Award “for a rising senior studying chemistry who gives promise of the largest degree of usefulness in some field of service which requires a knowledge of chemistry” were Jerry C. Godbehere and Aldos C. Barefoot III. John M. Douglas Jr. received the Sandy Black Memorial Award for “the rising senior pre-medical student considered most outstanding.” The A. K. Phifer Scholarship was presented to Frank G. Smith. “For a rising senior who has exhibited high potential for future service to mankind as indicated by his leadership at Davidson and elsewhere, service to the college and community, and academic record,” Ronald K. Gibson was presented with the George L. Gladstone Award by Dean Frontis Johnston. Professor L. Richardson King presented the Tommy Peters Award to William B. Garrett for “the athlete who best typifies the Davidson spirit in athletic ability, leadership, and sportsmanship.”

Davidsonian Managing Editors:
BOB HOWELL
BRUCE MALONE
MIKE TANNER

Sports Editors:
JIM SITTERSON
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Assistant Managing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD

Technical Assistant:
BILL ELLETT

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
TOM BRUCE
JOE EARLE
MILES WARD
GRAY WILSON

News Editor:
HARRIETT HODGES

Assistant Sports Editors:
MARK CONNORS
BOB WETZEL

Contributors this week:
Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Bill Lloyd, John McElveen, Ed Sibley, Charlie Slagle, Francis Townsend, and Paul Welch.

Contributing Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
BETSY ALEXANDER
MARY HOBBIE
HUGH MOORE
JIM PAULSEN
RICHARD ROMEYN

Cartoonists:STEVE BALKCOM  
JOHN LEMMON  
PAUL MITCHELL  

Assistant Features Editor:  
VAL VAN HORN  

Advertising Manager:  
RICH SMITH  

Assistant Business Managers:  
CLIFF KIRK  
MIKE RAMSEY  
PHIL STIKES  

Circulation:  
RICKY BELL  
ROBERT GATES  

Photographers:  
JIM JERNIGAN  
ROB PETERSON  
ROB STRAND  

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 248, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.

Professor David C. Grant presented the Thomas D. Sparrow Award to David D. Weaver “in recognition of outstanding dedication and contribution to intercollegiate athletics.” The Agnes Sentelle Award for a worthy student above the freshman class, selected for his outstanding promise as indicated by character, personality, intellectual ability, and scholarship, was presented to Edward G. Connette by Dean of Students Will H. Terry.

PHILLIPS

Reporting from the Constitution and Bylaws Committee, Vince Rabil said that they are currently working on the revised Constitution and Bylaws. “We will put out a new edition within the next two weeks,” Rabil said. (See the story on page 1 for the details of the referendum conducted Wednesday on the candidacy of sophomores for the office of SGA president and vice-president.)

Union Seeks Future Quarters  
By PAUL WELCH  
Staff Reporter

The Student Union is presently studying a number of alternatives to its present temporary quarters in the old Guest House. However, the Union will probably continue to be located in the Guest House building for at least two more years, according to Union Board President Joe Earle.

Speaking of the search for new quarters, Earle said, “What we are talking about here is a six to ten year interim period during which we hope to be located in another already existing building here on campus. Hopefully, by the end of that period, the school will have the money necessary for the construction of a new Union building,” Earle remarked.

The present Union building is considered inadequate because of its small size and also because it lacks several features usually considered essential in a Union, such as a cafeteria service. Accordingly, the Union Board has appointed a special committee to study the possibilities of using several other college buildings as interim sites for the Union facilities. The committee, in turn, has been divided into several smaller groups, each of which is studying the advantages and disadvantages of a particular location.

The sites which are presently being considered are the present Cunningham Fine Arts Building (to be used together with the present temporary Union building), the Laundry-Heating Plant complex, the present library, and the gymnasium. Committee members have been given access to the floor plans of all these buildings, and are now preparing reports on the suitability of each of them for Union operations. Criteria for suitability include floor space and the degree of ease with which such facilities as offices for the various campus organizations and publications, game rooms, meeting rooms, a post office, and others could be set up. Another criterion would be the ease with which the present occupants of a building might be installed in other facilities.

Once the committee reports have come in and been evaluated by the Union Board, the board will submit a recommendation to the administration as to which building it believes would make the best Union. “Of course,” said Earle, “the administration may choose not to follow that recommendation, but so far the reaction has been encouraging.” The deadline for submission of committee reports to the board is May 9.

MARLENA in concert May 5 at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium. She has recently been to Europe to record a single for "The Last Tango In Paris." Appearing the same night, at 10 p.m. in Chambers Banquet Hall will be 190% Pure Poison, an eight-piece rock group featuring a variety of vocal and instrumental music. Both concerts are sponsored by the Black Student Coalition and the Union.