Bevan Urges Measure To Save Honor Code
By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

The question of whether or not the new E. H. Little Library will contain some sort of security to cut
down on the losses in books, or whether the Honor system will be given a second chance has caused some
basic disagreement in opinion.

In an October 26th memorandum to Director of the Library Chalmers Davidson, Vice-President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan called
upon the Library Committee to devise a plan whereby students would be made more aware of the serious situation in
hopes of preventing such a move as security installation.

BEVAN
“I want you to know that I cannot support the introduction of a turnstile system..." Bevan wrote. “Before I could
come to this, I would have to forsake the honor system and be convinced that we have done everything possible
to confront our students with the gravity of the situation.”

“Some students don't realize that removing books from the library is stealing and carries the same punishment as any other
honor offense,” Bevan said later in an interview. “When a student unlawfully removes a book, he is interfering with the
education of his fellow students.”

What Bevan was most upset about, however, was the willingness of the SGA to install a check system after being
presented with either that alternative or a comprehensive fee to cover library losses. “We apparently haven't impressed upon the SGA
the importance of the Honor System,” Bevan exclaimed. “Their decision was the easy way to deal with the problem."

The other reason for Bevan's unwillingness to impose a security system was his insistence that they don't alter the situation
very radically. “There is no evidence that detection devices or turnstile systems reduce the amount of stealing. No system is
foolproof, and professional book thieves can always find a way around them. I don’t think that the problem will increase,
but I doubt if it will change the situation,” Bevan remarked.

This viewpoint is likewise held by other members of the Library Committee, notably Davidson, President Samuel Spencer, and professor Malcolm
Lester, chairman of the committee. Of differing opinion, however, are SGA President Bo Phillips and nine other Student senators who
voted last week 10 to 8 in favor of adopting a turnstile system in the new library. Phillips explained that
the Senate “wasn’t given any decent alternatives to the problem” and so chose the turnstile plan after rejecting the $10
fee to which every student would be subject if a comprehensive fee were adopted.

Censor Song Selections
By LILLIAN GASCOIGNE
Asst. Managing Editor

Obscene songs are going to be cut from WDAV-FM radio. This is due partly to the increase in voltage which
enables WDAV to broadcast out of the college and into the surrounding community. There have been some complaints from townspeople
because of the songs played on WDAV. Those in charge of the station are worried about the image which the
station is presenting to the community.

The Board of Directors for WDAV met over the weekend to establish guidelines for what material may be played on
the station. Members of the Board of Directors are Professors Charles Lloyd, Edward Palmer, Robert Jackson, John Hopkins, Dean of
Students Will Terry, and Earl Lawrimore.

Announcers will now be forced to limit the requests to songs which they know will not be offensive to the
community. “We are not creating this problem, it definitely exists,” said Co-Station Manager Robert Touchton. “Earl Lawrimore has claimed that
he hears at least two comments a week from Davidson citizens about the songs played on the station.” Lawrimore is
the faculty consultant for WDAV.

“The FCC is not involved in this matter and we have no plans to engage in anything that would cause
trouble with them. We have received no complaints from them,” he said. The FCC regulations state that no obscene or
profane language should be broadcast. To do this is a federal offense.

“Moreover, I myself completely reject this domino theory that once the library has adopted a security system, the student store
will be next, and so on. That's just a bunch of bull,” said Phillips. “The Library is used by many
more people than just students. I think a good deal of the book taking is done by outsiders,” stated Phillips.
“Comparing the library situation to the student honor code is stretching the point a bit.”

Nevertheless, the Library Committee is faced with a problem that seems to worsen, but “nothing has been decided upon as
yet,” Lester declared. Meanwhile, the committee is still evaluating security systems already in operation in libraries throughout the state. The
Honor Court Council has decided to set...up temporary checkpoints in the library for two weeks during the Winter term to
make students more aware of the problem and its inconveniences.

Honor
The college calendar calls for exams to be taken Nov. 16, 17, 19, and 20. Not all professors use the
self-scheduled procedures described here, so each student should determine definitely the exam arrangements for each course. If self-scheduled procedures are
used, then the following instructions apply.

Go to the Student Store in Belk and purchase an exam envelope for each of your courses using self-scheduled exams.
Fill in the appropriate identification information on both the yellow and red cards and also on the top section of
the envelope. Give the envelope with both cards still attached to your professor between 8 a.m., Nov. 8, and 5
p.m., Nov. 12. Each examination envelope turned in will be available during each examination session. You do not need to
specify in advance when you will write a particular exam.

Go to Chambers Banquet Hall between 8:40 and 9:15 for morning sessions and 1:40 and 2:15 for afternoon sessions and
ask for the envelope containing the exam you want to take at that time. The envelopes will be arranged alphabetically
by the student's name. The yellow card will be detached and retained by the examination staff. Go to any classroom
in Chambers and write the exam; room 310 in Chambers is to be used exclusively by students authorized by the
professor to use tables, charts, etc. The envelope with the red card still attached and containing the questions and your
answers may be returned as early as 9:45 in the morning and 2:45 in the afternoon and must be returned
before the deadline of 12:15 for the morning and 5:15 for the afternoon. The honor pledge must be signed at
the examination center table as you turn in the exam envelope. The yellow card, now receipted by the examination center,
will be returned to the student; hold that card until a grade for the course is received. In case of
any irregularity, it is the student's evidence that he turned in the exam envelope containing exam materials.

College Revises Endowments
By ANDY LAMAS
Contributing Editor

With colleges across the nation experiencing the effects of inflation, the proper management of the endowment fund has become increasingly
important. "And with the student body enrollment increasing, the endowment is beginning to become inadequate," claimed Vice President for Finance
and Development C. David Cornell.

In 1969, the Ford Foundation published a report recommending several ways in which colleges "could more wisely manage" their endowment
funds. "The study suggested implementation of a management policy which emphasizes total return and growth rather than income," explained Comptroller
Robert Davidson. The proposal was accepted by Davidson College in 1969 and was implemented in the 1970-71 budget year.

Davidson uses the "total return" concept for determining the amount of financial support that its invested endowment funds would provide
for current operating expenses. Total return consists of two elements, yield and appreciation. Yield represents dividends and interest on securities;
appreciation is the increase in market value of investments held.

WDAV Station Manager Robert Touchton consults an album to make sure that none of the cuts are obscene. Complaints from
the Davidson community have forced WDAV to change its policies to ensure that no obscene songs are played over the
air.

"The college’s primary investment objective is to realize the highest possible total return while at the same time investing its
endowment funds prudently," Davidson said. An investment policy which has as its objective maximizing current yield favors the present only
because investments with a high current yield usually do not offer much promise of high yield in the future. High
yield investments, in the long run, generally do not maintain the purchasing power of the dollar. On the other hand,
an investment policy of maximizing growth will normally penalize current yield, thereby reducing funds available for current operations. The total
return concept is a means of achieving a more equitable balance between these two policies.

"Using a prudent portion of the total return (the sum of yield and appreciation) to support operations allows the college’s
investment counsel (Scutters, Stevens, and Clark) to be free to shift investments so as to maximize total return without being
concerned as to the effect of such shifts on current yield," said Davidson.

At Davidson, the total return amount of income to be used for the 1973-74 fiscal year, one would take the
following steps:
1) The market value of marketable securities in the endowment fund as of June 30, 1970, 1971, and 1972 adjusted
for gift additions, is averaged.
2) A 5 percent rate is then applied to the three-year average market value to

(See DAVIDSON, page 8)
