Page Ten April 13, 1973 The Davidsonian

Diamonders Face Great Test, Challenge ECU In Twinbill
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Tomorrow's doubleheader with East Carolina marks the critical point for this year's baseball team, according to Coach Jack Burris. Last
week the team defeated North Carolina in what Burris called, "the finest game of the year and possibly the best
baseball game ever played by a Davidson team." The win was followed by a loss to Virginia the next day.
Frank Folger pitched four good innings according to Burris, but then he tired. "Frank has had a sore arm all
year and it was his first start of the year," Burris said. Burris felt, however, that pitching was not responsible
for the loss. "Fielding hurt us, we made three or four errors that were very costly," Burris explained. Last weekend
was scheduled as a four-game road trip with doubleheaders at Richmond and VMI. Due to rain, only one

Cumberland Heads Relay Participants
By BOB WETZEL
Asst. Sports Editor

The annual Davidson Relays will be held tomorrow at Richardson Field on the Davidson campus. Eleven teams led by Cumberland,
the defending champs, and West Georgia, last year’s runners-up, will participate in the afternoon-long competition. The Wildcat thinclads and squads
from Appalachian State, Berry College, Carson-Newman, the University of the South, Western Carolina, Wake Forest, High Point, and Catawba make
up the remainder of what Coach Sterling Martin calls "one of the strongest fields ever assembled in the history of
this meet." The competition will get underway at 12:30 p.m. with the six-mile run. Trials for the 100-yard dash and
the 120-yard high hurdles will begin shortly thereafter at 12:45, as will the field events. Competition in the various relays
will start at about 3. These relays will include the 440, 880, mile, and two-mile relays, and the sprint and
distance medleys. Martin looks for the fiercest competition to be in the six-mile run, the pole vault, and the high
jump. "The high jump should be particularly interesting," he noted. "The field includes defending ACC champ Jerome White of Wake
Forest who has done 6’ 11", as well as three other jumpers who have cleared 6’ 8"." Another outstanding performer
to watch should be Jerry Gaines of High Point in the triple jump. "Gaines is the best triple-jumper on the
East Coast at present," Martin commented. "He did better than 51' at Furman." Gaines is also the favorite in the
long jump. Davidson performers to watch in the meet include Eppa Rixey in the high jump and David Crumpler in
the discus.

Sailors Vie For Crown
By JOHN McELVEEN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Sailing Team will set their sails this weekend at the Hartwell Reservoir when they participate in the championships
for the South Atlantic Sailing Association. The sailors will be competing in 420’s against seven other qualifying teams. "Though Clemson
would have to be the favorite, due to the home advantage and two good skippers," commented Jim Hunter, "it will
be one of the tightest and most balanced cham-pionship regattas we've had. “After coming in third out of a field
of nine in the Duke Regatta, we feel a lot more competitive,” commented Hunter. The Duke Regatta was the longest
of the year and consisted of eighteen races. “We sailed in moderate to light winds and rain, but it was
good sailing. We sailed well but came in third. Duke beat us by two and one-half points out of the
60,” noted Douglas. Hunter added, “It was a good tough regatta right before the conference championships.” Daryl Douglas plans to
skipper in A-Division with Somerville as his crew, and Hunter will sail B-Division with Pope Mosely as his crew. “We've
been working for this all season; there are going to be sixteen tight races, on a lake famous for its
light and shifting wind,” said Hunter. “We've got to have the best effort we've ever had.”

CAMERAS PHOTO SUPPLIES DARK ROOM EQUIPMENT RECORDS TAPES SOUND EQUIPMENT Hi-Fi Camera Center Charlottetown Mall Open Til 9:00 Every Night
Lowest Prices On All Beverages

The game with Richmond could be played which was won 6-0 by the Spiders. The remaining game with Richmond and
the two with VMI were postponed. Burris explained that the games may not be made up and that Davidson's chances
of winning the conference may be severely hurt if the games are not rescheduled. The deadline for making up conference
games is May 2 and the teams are unsure if they can fit in all games before the deadline. “Right
now we're 1-2 in conference play and usually the winning team can afford three or four losses in conference play,”
Burris said. “If we can’t reschedule the games then we may not be able to afford any more losses in
conference play,” Burris continued.

The only question mark continues to be pitching. Marshall Case and Frank Folger have started in one game apiece, but
(Staff Photo by Rodriguez) STRETCH AND DELIVERY Cat hurler Joel Tew sets to fire another strike. they are far from
their potential at this point, according to Burris.

King's Sirloin Mooresville 8 Oz. — $2.25 12 Oz. — $3.25 USDA Choice Sirloin 663-2832 Intersection of 21 at 115

LUNCH DINNER Sunday - Thursday 5-9 Friday - Saturday 5-10

will the circle be unbroken - music all afternoon

DUKE JOE COLLEGE CONCERT Saturday, April 14th - 12 P.M. WALLACE WADE STADIUM featuring THE NITTY GRITTY DIRT BAND MILES
DAVIS GRIN with NILS LOFGREN plus special guest star BOZ SCAGGS

Tickets: $5.00 for the whole show available at all area Record Bars, Page Box Office and on the quad at
Duke, and the day of the show. Mail Orders: TICKETS -- JOE COLLEGE BOX KM DUKE STATION DURHAM, N. C.
27706 Duke University Union Joe College Committee.
