December 7, 1973

Davidsonian

Gaige Returns From 15-Day Visit To JYA Universities

Director of International Education Frederick H. Gaige has recently completed a 15-day visit to the University of Marburg in Germany, the University of Montpellier in France, and three universities in England: Oxford, Reading, and East Anglia. His major objective at the University of Marburg was to assume directorship of the Davidson program there. He worked with a number of people and felt that two of these people would be very good candidates for the position. He also interviewed all of the Davidson students on Junior Year Abroad in Marburg. He commented, “They are making an excellent adjustment to university life.”

GAIGE

Gaige stayed with Professor Fremen Frank Jacobus in Montpellier. Jacobus is the director of the Davidson program there. An agreement with the President of the University of Montpellier to begin an exchange program was discussed. Davidson will send students there, while Davidson pays the expenses of one Montpellier student here. Although this agreement must still be formalized at Davidson and at the University of Montpellier, Gaige expressed satisfaction about the arrangement.

At St. Anne's College in Oxford, Gaige worked out the financial and academic arrangements for the 1974 winter program. One of the major objectives of his trip was to open up opportunities for a few Davidson students to spend a year at British universities. To this end, he visited the University of Reading and the University of East Anglia. Officials at the University of East Anglia agreed to accept four Davidson students on a yearly basis. These two universities must formalize their agreements, but according to Gaige, there appears to be little doubt that this will be done soon. Gaige explained that, “The majority of students who came to my office want to study in England, and I am pleased that Davidson will now be able to assist a few of these students.”

Professor of Spanish Lois Kemp will visit there over Christmas to investigate the situation. The Davidson group is scheduled to visit Madrid and surrounding areas in the spring.

(Staff photo by Venable)

A PIECE OF THE ROCK

Carol Yeomans finishes a traverse move on Table Rock at Linville Gorge last Saturday.

P.E. Faced With Continued Problems

By JIM PAULSEN
Contributing Editor

In an attempt to alleviate some of the problems of signing up for physical education classes and to encourage more participation, the PE department has registered students for this term's courses through the use of mailed-out letters. “Participation is not what I wanted it to be after we changed registration to make it easier for the student,” said Dr. Stone, Director of Physical Education. “With the more flexible schedule and the fact that some courses, like bowling, can be taken on personal time, we expected more people to sign up.” Including those students who signed up for snow skiing, 182 people have registered for PE classes. Also, during the past week, there was a special letter sent out by both Stone and Vice President of Academic Affairs John M. Bevan to seniors who have not finished their PE requirements.

Cutbacks Spur Cool Remarks

By CHARLES KENNON
Staff Writer

While most Davidson

Assistant Managing Editors
LILLIAN GASCOIGNE
LARRY MIMMS
MARA WILENSKY

News Editor
PETE GOODMAN

Assistant Features Editors
ALAN FORD
FRANCIS TOWNSEND

Assistant Sports Editor
MARK CONNORS

Advertising Manager
JEFF SICH

Cartoonists
STEVE BALACUM
PAUL MITCHELL

Creative
RICKYBELL JEFF? NEIKIRA Asst. Business Managers PHIL STYKES DAVID TRADER Typists CHOLLET STILL PATTI SHANAWEILER Contributors this week: Ann Bode, Pete Celentano, Gary Cerne, Joe Duncan, Greg Duma, Charis Kenner, Bill Lievd, and Lex Veazer. Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. Send correspondence to: Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription.

Some have expressed dissatisfaction over the new hours when there will be heat. The heat will be on for 5 hours a day from 6 am to 11 am and from 6 pm to 11 pm. Philosophically, Brian Simmons said: "It was the same. If you have a turkey situation, what you do is make Sephamere." David Richardson thinks that Davidson is doing the best it can with what it has. "We voted on what hours we wanted to be without fuel, and now we have to live with the results." Diane English has a similar opinion. "The lack of heat at certain times doesn't bother me. I'm glad that the school is rationing it, and they should have done it sooner. It's a small sacrifice for us, and I don't think it's too great a hardship. You can't please all the people all the time, and the school has to appease as many as possible. I am glad to see that we were consulted at all. It is a situation Davidson is handling well," she said.

Several students pointed out that so far it hasn't been terribly cold, so students have experienced only the feasibility of the program now being implemented. The real test will come later in the winter. Bob Keeter was grateful that students were granted hot water. "What would it be other than a vision of hell if all we had for the whole winter was cold showers?"

Buell added their P.E. requirements. "No requirement fulfillment and no degree—that is our policy. Basic requirements have been stated and restated, and we expect them to be met. As long as it is what it is, we will abide by it," said Bevan. At the beginning of this year, there were 80 seniors who had not fulfilled their requirements, and Stone stated that there are "still quite a number" of these students who must complete the P.E. certification of proficiency in four individual sports and one team sport.

Student opinions of the P.E. program are mixed, ranging from those who feel that the program is an integral part of a Davidson education to those who argue that there should be no physical education requirements. "The P.E. program is a joke. What right does anyone have to tell us how to keep our health! Moreover, with all the time demanded by studies, if you want to participate in extracurricular activities, P.E. really cuts into your time drastically," said Jamie Koloditch. "I am in favor of the requirements because a well-rounded person has to have some knowledge of sports. Physical education should be a part of our liberal arts education at Davidson," said Bob Penny.

A common criticism heard is that class times for the P.E. program are very inconvenient and not enough information is given about the classes. "The whole program is very confusing. I heard from the P.E. department in freshman year and then I didn't hear anything again till now. Also, courses are usually very vague, and the written tests are ridiculous because you don't know what to expect," said Joe Rohrer. "Sending out the list of courses was a vast improvement."