(Staff Photo by Goodman) SPOILS OF VICTORY Eddie Williamson and admirers.

The Davidsonian
September 28, 1973
Page Nine

Gridders, Apps Clash In First Away Contest
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Seeking their second win in as many outings, the Davidson Wildcats venture to Conrad Stadium in Boone, N.C. to tangle with the Appalachian Mountaineers tomorrow. Having not beaten the Apps in their only previous meetings, the Cats will be out to avenge a 10-10 tie from last season, as well as trying to up their seasonal mark to 2-2 overall and 1-1 in the conference.

“Appalachian is really a strong team,” commented head coach Dave Fagg earlier this week. “Their overall record at this point is very misleading.” The Mountaineers are 0-3 on the season thus far with losses to Western Kentucky, Furman, and Western Carolina. Fagg characterized the Appalachian offense as “fine” with a “very strong wishbone attack.” It will be the primary job of the Cat defense to contain the running game of the Mountaineers.

“I think we have had some fine defensive efforts in our first three ball games,” said Fagg. “We have really been under a lot of pressure.” Many times the Cats have been called on to hold an opposing offense who has gained possession within the Cat 40-yard line due to offensive turnovers. “I think Eddie Williamson, George Weiker, and Allen Schaberg have really anchored the defense well,” explained the Cat mentor. “I think that they will be able to contain the Mountaineers this weekend.”

Harper Leads 20-17 Win Over Bears
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

The football team finally answered its critics last Saturday with a 20-17 win over a favored Lenoir Rhyne team. “It was one of the greatest demonstrations of courage that I’ve seen in athletics,” said Head Coach Dave Fagg.

The first quarter of the game saw both teams go scoreless as neither could get untracked offensively. The Bears scored first on a 43-yard field goal in the middle of the second quarter. Two minutes later they added a touchdown to make it 10-0. “I’ve seen a lot of teams just give it up at that point,” Fagg said, “but those guys pulled together and hung on to come back.”

Davidson's first points of the year came on a 55-yard drive with one minute and 30 seconds left in the first half. With two seconds showing on the scoreboard, Dave Harper hit Gary Pomeroy with an eight-yard touchdown pass. “I thought Dave did a great job leading the team to score with our two-minute drill,” Fagg commented.

Lenoir Rhyne scored on the first play from scrimmage in the second half on a 63-yard pass following a reverse handoff to the flanker. The Cats came back four plays later with a 62-yard bomb from Harper to Walker to make it 17-14 in favor of the Bears. “A lot of people were down on Dave after the first two games because his timing was off, but that play was timed perfectly,” Fagg commented.

Davidson finally took the lead with eight minutes left in the game when Harper sneaked over from the one-yard line. “The middle was clogged, so I looked to the left and no one was there. I just slithered over that way. It was beautiful,” said Harper afterwards.

The game was in doubt until the final gun. But the Cats managed to hang on after Lenoir Rhyne recovered a fumble with a minute left in the game. The defense came up with their third solid performance of the year. “They've played well in every game and they're getting better with each game,” Fagg said. “And don’t forget that this is still a very young defense.”

Fagg handed out individual praise to Tom Fleisher, who played “the best game I’ve seen from a defensive back on Richardson Field,” according to Fagg.

Cat Clubbers Tumble To Outlaws By 26-6
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

The Davidson club football team lost its second game of the season 26-6 to Central Piedmont last Saturday. Central Piedmont is one of the perennial powers in the club football league. The Outlaws are Central Piedmont’s only football team and are inclined to take the concept of club athletics more seriously than other schools in the league.

The game was much closer than the final score indicated as all of Central Piedmont’s scores came on big plays. The Outlaws were more organized than Davidson and this proved to be their primary advantage. Davidson's lone score came on a six-yard run by quarterback Jimmy.Boyd. The offense was unable to get untracked throughout the entire game. There were several bright spots on the defense as Central Piedmont was contained for most of the game. Sandy Carnegie, Tony Boon, and Bob Wetzel led the Davidson defense in stopping the Outlaws. The club football's problem so far this season has been the inability to develop a successful running game. The offensive line has also tired late in both games due to a depth shortage. Anyone interested in playing for the team is invited to attend the workouts or contact Bob Wetzel. Practices are held at 6:30 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays.

Allen Schaberg and Ronnie Hamilton continued their impressive work at defensive tackle and defensive end, respectively. Fagg’s loudest plaudits were reserved for George Weicker and co-captain Eddie Williamson, however. Weicker had 11 tackles and 14 assists and was nominated as Southern Conference defensive player of the week. "George was just all over that field Saturday,” Fagg commented. Williamson had eight tackles and four assists to go with his first interception of the year. (See HARPER, page 10)

Against the Mountaineers, he will be up against a very deep secondary which is very quick and moves around quite a bit. Fagg classified their defense as “very containing.” It will be the homecoming contest for the Mountaineers and they are expecting a capacity crowd in their 12,000-seat stadium. The offense had been a big question mark for the Cats during their opening contests. But with the exhibition against the Bears, it seems that quarterback David Harper has begun to click and will be able to generate the passing attack well enough to keep the Cats within reach of their future opponents. The fate of the Cats this week may again rest in the hands of All-American flanker Walt Walker, along with split end Gary Pomeroy and tight ends Mike Harding and Hal Peacock. These players all had a fine game for the Cats against the Bears and will be out for a repeat performance in Boone tomorrow. Running back Dave Ingold, a senior from High Point, is still a questionable starter for the Cats this week after missing the Lenoir Rhyne clash. (See GRIDDERS, Page 10)

Coed Finds New Challenges In “Century Run” Bike Race
By LYNNE KEENER
Staff Writer

What is a century run? A century run is blisters, newly discovered muscles, sadistic car drivers, scenic back roads, shared physical exhaustion, and mental satisfaction with fellow riders. Before such an expedition can be made, sleep, food, and incentive must be provided, but I figured one out of three was an acceptable norm. Equipped with my two-wheeler, official padded biking shorts, K-Mart knapsack, and six-pack of Gatorade, I foolishly set off to join the other church abstainers last Sunday. Such bicycling activities are arranged and publicized by the League of American Wheelmen, which also works for the creation of bikeways through legislation. The Davidson Lightweight Cycle Shop locally sponsored the “Kudzu Century” on September 23, which is the national date of the annual LAW runs. At 8:00 a.m., 23 riders (all but one on 10-speeds) started down Concord Road. The youngest was Helene White, a Davidson 12-year-old. The route consisted of three laps over a 34-mile course. After one lap of rough roads, obscene local residents, and blood-thirsty dogs, I was a bit winded. However, eighteen miles and infinite wheel revolutions later, I walked as bow-legged as The Duke after a hard day on the set and I felt ready to audition for a Ben-Gay commercial. Eight cyclists rode 50 miles in less than six hours (a half-century), while 13 riders completed the 100 miles with times ranging from six-and-a-half to 11 hours. Snack breaks and pool dips were enjoyed between laps. A station wagon patrolled the countryside, serving as grocery store, first aid station, and cheerleader. In short, the object of the century run is not the token patch all successful participants receive, but to have a fun, enjoyable, and unforgettable day cycling in the Piedmont countryside. The Tarheel Cyclists of Charlotte are holding a century run this Sunday for anyone who wishes to ride. More bicycling activities, such as overnight camping trips to nearby parks, are planned for October by Jane Nicholls and Alan White of the local bicycle shop.

Homeworkers. Earn $60 weekly addressing envelopes. Rush 25¢ Gemoc., POB 21244 X, Indianapolis, Ind. 46221

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.
Jewelry Repair