Page Two February 23, 1973 The Davidsonian (Staff photo by Goodman)

HOW MUCH LONGER? Spencer discussed the future of football with the Senate.

Committee To Pick Counselors

Spencer Reports To Senate On Subsidized Sports Program

By HARRIETT HODGES
News Editor

The student Senate heard a report from College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. on the future of subsidized athletics at Davidson in its meeting this week. At present, the athletic program is moving in no definite direction, according to Spencer. However, he did indicate that the trend in the football program was towards cutting its cost and offering fewer grants to players. Because Davidson is not able to offer as many grants as the other schools in the Southern Conference, the Davidson football program is finding it difficult to produce teams to compete on the same level with schools like Richmond and East Carolina, according to Spencer. “The cost of an athletic program to us is much greater than to state schools in the conference,” Spencer said.

During First Week Of March

By MARK DEATON
Asst. Managing Editor

Freshman hall counselors for 1973-74 will be announced during the first week of March, according to Dean of Students Will Terry. A committee composed of Freshman Advisors Jerry Godbehere and Dave Bender, hall counselors Tom Jenkins and Mark Monson, Faculty Advisors Ben Kline and Herb Jackson, Director of Student Counseling William B. Hight, Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls, and Terry will select approximately 24 men and eight women from 76 applications made by rising juniors.

“My feeling is that hall counselors perform the best service to Davidson College and to their fellow students of all performing service jobs on campus,” said Terry. “Hall counselors are more involved with people on the most personal level. In the past, most have been the type of men responding to this creatively and conscientiously, as they catch students in a pretty traumatic time,” Terry said.

All applicants are required to fill out an application, take some psychological testing, and appear before the selection committee for a 10-minute interview. The selection committee also asks for recommendations from present hall counselors. During the ten-minute interviews each student has with the nine-member committee, Terry indicated, they get more of a tone from the student than answers to specifics. “Even the way a candidate fills out an application indicates his or her seriousness,” Terry said. “The application suggests and gives the candidate freedom to exercise his own imagination and ideas.”

Terry cited qualities of having a positive attitude towards the college, willingness to spend time with the freshmen, being academically strong, involved in extracurriculars, and respectful of campus rules as being conducive to selection. “You can't be a cop and be a hall counselor,” said Terry. “Neither can you be either laissez-faire or authoritarian as a hall counselor. The major difference in the selection process this year from last year is that we involved all hall counselors on the selection committee last year,” Terry indicated. “This year we're much more structured.” In addition, all

Davidsonian

Managing Editors:
BOB HOWELL
BRUCE MALOY
MIKE TANNER

Sports Editors:
JIM SITTERSON
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Assistant Managing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD

Technical Assistant:
BILL ELLETT

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
TOM BRUCE
MILES WARD
GRAY WILSON

News Editor:
HARRIETT HODGES

Assistant Sports Editors:
MARK CONNORS
BOB WETZEL

Contributing Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
BETSY ALEXANDER
MARY HOBBIE
HUGH MOORE
JIM PAULSEN
RICHARD ROMEYN

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKCOM
JOHN LEMMON
PAUL MITCHELL

Assistant Features Editor:
VAL VAN HORN

Advertising Manager:
RICH SMITH

Assistant Business Manager:
CLIFF KIRK
PHIL STIKES

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
ROBERT GATES

Photographers:
ROB PETERSON
JIM PORTER
ROB STRAND

Contributors this week:
Jeff Allender, Steve Balkcom, Mark Connors, Jim Jermygan, Jack Linard, Charlie Slagle, Francis Townsend, and Andrew Wong

Published weekly at:
Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rates $9.00.Members of the selection committee read the applications and are present for the candidate interviews, according to Terry. “One thing which has impressed me is the fact that guys who in the past have had good hall counselors are most anxious to be hall counselors and are often the best," he said.

Since there is only one other small, liberal arts college in the Southern Conference—Furman—there are no other natural opponents for Davidson, according to Spencer. Although there are some schools in the area which Davidson might compete with, like Sewanee, Washington and Lee, and Centre, this is not possible as long as athletics are subsidized. "If we are going to consider joining a non-subsidized conference, we have to decide whether we want conference affiliation for the sake of the other sports,” Spencer said.

Spencer said there were several alternatives for the future of the football program. “We can put all football grants on a need basis and let the Wildcat Club supplement this with money from its funds,” he said. Spencer noted that this would mean that only football players qualifying for financial aid could receive grants from the school. Other alternatives include continuing the program as it is, and doing away with the program entirely. Spencer said that while he was not in favor of completely doing away with the program, he did favor reducing subsidized football. “I would tend to stay with national development basketball and keep the other sports on a need level,” Spencer said. “I have resisted the idea of getting into subsidies for other sports. It just multiplies the problem.”

In other business, the Senate heard a request by the Rugby Club for funds to cover expenses for the rest of the season. Voting on the motion was delayed until the next meeting. Also, the student representatives to faculty committees made reports in Tuesday's meeting. Paul Mitchell reported on the Athletic Committee, Miles Ward on the Educational Policy Committee, and Vince Rabil on the Library Committee. SGA President Bob Phillips reported on plans for encounter weekends being made by Davidson psychologist Meredith Hall. Phillips said that the $1500 appropriated by the Senate would be used to finance five encounter weekends during the Spring term.

(Staff photo by Goodman)

LENDING A HAND
Hall Counselors provide guidance for freshmen.

Humanities Money Available For Further Intensive Study
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Asst. Managing Editor

The Youth Grants in Humanities Program offers a rare opportunity for intense study in numerous areas of interest. According to a pamphlet on the subject, the National Endowment for the Humanities, which sponsors the program, is a government-funded operation that is “fundamentally concerned with restoring humanistic knowledge as a guide to our personal and civic lives.” The Youth Grant Program provides money for those young people (in or out of school) who want to pursue a certain aspect of the humanities. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said that this year the organization will give out about $31 million to accepted applicants. Normally, the grants are under $5000, but grants up to $10,000 may be given. Projects that may be accepted are those concerned with formal or informal education, study or research of a specific problem, or activities that apply humanistic material to ethical, social, or political problems. The National Council on the Humanities will give priority to projects concerned with man’s relationships in such areas as urbanization, minority problems, war, peace, foreign policy, civil liberties, and youth problems. Bevan emphasized that the program will accept only specific projects; it is not intended to be a scholarship or fellowship fund. Also, group projects are generally favored over individual ones. Applications must be mailed no later than May 19 for projects beginning after Sept. 1. More information can be obtained from Bevan’s office. Bevan is somewhat disappointed with student response to the Youth Grant Program. He said that the announcement has been posted since the Fall term, but no one has shown much interest in it. Speaking of such announcements, Bevan added, “It’s a matter of people becoming acquainted with them.”