Two November 2, 1973 - cee tee gate

Money Bestows Life In Placement Plans

By MARK WILENSKY
Asst. Managing Editor

(This is the second article in a series of two focusing on the placement problem at Davidson.)

A year ago, Extended Studies Career Director Randall R. Kincaid Jr., and Psychology Professor John Kelton submitted a grant proposal to the government, hoping to get enough money to consolidate a program of placement, off-campus study, co-op education, summer placement, and vocational counseling. A grant of $25,000 was received. The question now is how to spend it.

Kincaid has been placed in charge of suggesting to the college how to expand its facilities to better advise students of the alternatives they have after graduation. Kincaid’s recommendations (a rough plan has been endorsed by the Senate) would ensure the formation of a new office, operating as part of the Student Counseling Office under Director of Counseling William B. Hight. This office would bring together the testing and counseling now done by Hight, the Career Service Program, the Placement services of the college, a summer internship placement service, a cooperative education service, and would also be available to perform various services for the pre-professional committees.

If ‘fragmentation’ is the major ill in the way that these services are now provided, Kincaid’s plan should cure it nicely. “What we will be doing is providing a central place for students to go to when they begin to plan for the future,” he said.

According to Hight, this planning cannot begin too soon. “Revelation doesn’t often come in a blinding flash,” he said. “The time to begin to plan for the future is now, not next week or next year.”

Kincaid envisions the workings of the new office as being similar to a clearinghouse. The new program will be based on practical experiences. Internships will be sought, co-op programs started, and meaningful contacts with those people now in the business and professional world will be stressed. “Many people come to me feeling sure they want to be doctors or lawyers, but have never experienced exactly what these people do,” Hight said. “Kincaid’s program of internships and experiences should alleviate this problem.”

While stressing the internship type of experience, the program will include much more. “We're going to hire a staff member whose sole duty will be to coordinate this office,” Kincaid said. “To keep the record straight, I do not wish to be considered for the job,” he added.

Kincaid said that the college has begun to move toward finding a director for the program and that he hopes the program will be operating by March. “We hope to be able to aid students in two ways,” he said. “We want to provide the student with information about himself and about where people like him can do their thing.”

Kincaid’s program will try to point out the alternatives to graduate school that many students are now unaware of. “If students know that there is one place that they can come to when they are planning for the future, more should make use of the facility,” Kincaid concluded.

Hight put it another way. “The time when a Davidson grad could choose what he wanted to do and be assured of doing it is over. Our students need to plan for their futures.”

Davidsonian Staff

Executive Editor: MIKE TANNER
Managing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, MARK DEATON, CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Sports Editors: JIM SITTERSON, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Associate Editors: ALAN BLAKLEY, DOUG BROWN, TOM BRUCE, STEVE CANTERBURY, TODD EADES, JOE EARLE, MARY HOBBIE, RICHARD ROMEYN, MILES WARD
Contributing Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, PHILIP BISHOP, DAVID HANIG, ANDY LAMAS, HUGH MOORE, JIM PAULSEN
Technical Assistant: BILL ELLETT
Asst. Managing Editors: LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, LARRY MIMMS, MARK WILENSKY
Photography Editor: PETE GOODMAN
News Editor: HARRIETT HODGES
Assistant Features Editors: ALAN FORD, FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Assistant Sports Editor: MARK CONNORS
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKCOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Asst. Business Managers: PHIL STYKES, DAVID TRADER
Typists: CHOLLET STILL, PATTI SHANKWEILER

Contributors this week: Blain Butner, Tracy Charles, Greg Dunn, Charles Kennon, David Kirby, Bill Lloyd, Roger Manley, and Chris Young.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.```markdown
PUMPKIN POWER (Staff photo by Goodman)

Two Davidson College co-eds carved a pumpkin as part of this year's Halloween celebration. The festival included a Halloween party and several mysterious occurrences.

SGA Advisory Council Strives For Student-Faculty Exchange

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Managing Editor

Should I sign up for this course? How does a certain professor teach his class? As a freshman, would this course be too difficult for me right now? These are questions that continually plague Davidson students, and nothing so far seems to have solved the problem. However, Student Government President Bo Phillips has initiated a program which may help in this area. He is in the process of establishing a Student Advisory Council which will serve as a bridge between faculty and students.

Phillips gave two primary reasons why the Advisory Committee is needed at Davidson. First, he believes that although the course evaluation booklet is valuable, it does not adequately assist students when used alone. Phillips likened the booklet to a still photograph taken of a process that is constantly changing. He explained that many professors change their pedagogical methods from term to term, and although the booklet is updated every two years or so, it cannot keep up with these changes. Secondly, Phillips believes that students are not willing to speak candidly about classes with their professors. “It’s a matter of people being afraid to be honest with professors,” commented Phillips. He admitted that some communication goes on informally now, but that this is small in comparison to the rapport which should be evident.

The Advisory Council will consist of two students from each departmental major who can work easily with the professors in that department, especially the department chairmen. The students will air grievances from other students to the faculty and suggest ways to improve various problems that arise. They will comment on what is being taught and will criticize teaching methods which, from the students’ viewpoints, need improvement. Phillips stressed the advisory role of the Council; faculty members will in no way be bound by the suggestions.

Certain departments will not be included in the program because of the small numbers of majors in them. Physics, the foreign languages, and philosophy are among the ones which will not participate. On the other hand, departments with a great number of student majors will have more than two advisors. For instance, there will be three advisors for the pre-medical program. Phillips stressed the need for congenial cooperation. “It’s got to work informally,” he said. “The efficiency of the operation is going to depend entirely on the relationships between the faculty and the people on the committees. We need diplomats,” he added.

There will be a list of members of the Council out before Winter term so that they can be contacted if help is needed by students. Volunteers are still being sought, and any student in one of the various majors is encouraged to sign up. Phillips has been disappointed in the response to the program so far. “Most of the people we've gotten for this we've had to recruit. It says something bad about the student body,” he commented. Phillips added that most of the big glamour issues are gone and that students now have a valuable opportunity to concentrate on other issues which can make life at Davidson more pleasant.

Pollution Symposium

On Tuesday, November 6, the Davidson Center for Honors Study will sponsor a symposium on “Air Pollution and the Production of Power” in Hodson Hall. All speakers will be from the National Environmental Research Center at Research Triangle (NERC/RTP) of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Director of the Honors Center Earl MacCormac said, “This symposium will provide an excellent opportunity for students and others to become more aware of the seriousness of the air pollution problem. I strongly urge everyone to attend.”

3 p.m. “Effects of air pollutants from power plants on health and welfare.” Jack Thompson, Deputy Director, NERC/RTP

4:15 p.m. “Current status of engineering control measures for power plant pollutants.” William Plyler, Control Systems Laboratory

7:15 p.m. “Meteorological problems of power plant effluents.” James Peterson, Meteorology Laboratory

8:15 p.m. “Physical and chemical transformation of power plant effluents.” William Wilson, Chemistry and Physics Laboratory
```