Page Eight May 11, 1973 The Davidsonian

Scott To Keep AD Post One More Year

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Director of Athletics Tom Scott will not retire at the close of this school year according to Davidson College officials. Although the college has a stipulation requiring the retirement of its employees at age 65, Scott, who turned 65 during the present academic year, has been asked to remain on the staff for one more year. The college cited the need for a transitional period in the director's position and Scott's important commitments with the National Collegiate Athletic Association and the Southern Conference as reasons for the suspension of college regulations in this case.

“Filling Dr. Scott's position will be difficult," commented College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. "Tom is one of the best-known, best-liked figures in college athletics. He is a real gentleman who always stood for high standards in the sports world.”

Sidelines WITH GORDON

Scott and the Christmas Shirt

The announcement of Tom Scott’s retirement, effective at the end of the 1973-74 academic year, brings to mind some old news stories that I saw while rummaging through the News Bureau’s file on Scott. Take for example a story from the Charlotte News on Dec. 18, 1959. The article was by Scott, entitled, "His Basketball Foes Saw Red." It told of Scott’s 1938 Christmas at the time Scott was a coach at Central Missouri State College. The team was called the Mules. What a name!

On Christmas Day the team piled into cars and headed for Oklahoma City, where they were in a big Christmas tourney. They were not in the best of spirits, however, since they had an 0-4 record at the time. Anyhow, Scott went on to say that he opened one of his presents when the team arrived. It was a red sports shirt. He decided to wear it in their game against New Mexico University on the 26th. Well, those Mules upset a bigger and stronger team from a much larger school. On the following two days, the same CMSC club copped wins over some Texas team (Scott couldn’t remember which one) and a Pittsburg, Kansas squad, which had dealt them two of their previous four defeats. Defying all the odds, the team went on to defeat Hank Iba’s Aggies from Oklahoma A&M. By the way, Scott still had on that red shirt. I am sure that you guessed the end of the story and you are right. Five wins and a smelly shirt later, Scott’s Mules were tournament champions. Scott concluded, “I wonder what ever happened to my red sports shirt.” By the way, I heard Terry Holland was last seen heading for the North Pole to....

Notes On The Athletic Crisis

With the completion of the Crisis in Athletics series, I have moved from a stand for the abolition of subsidized football to the "rightist" view of keeping the pigskin sport. I think that, until we are absolutely certain that a nonsubsidized program will save us a substantial amount of greenbacks, we should not make any hasty judgments on the fate of the gridiron program. For the time being, we ought to be content to stay in the Southern Conference until we can decide exactly what should be done. As far as basketball goes, I am in favor of letting Terry Holland take his cagers and go auxiliary. Their chances of winning would be increased and they would bring in more money. To me, that’s a pretty unbeatable combination. Meanwhile, someone ought to start a poll to see what the general reaction to these ideas (and others) would be. But, the poll should not just include students. It should also get the opinions of people who PAY to see Davidson sports.

Scott's career as a coach began with a high school and ended with Davidson. He also coached AAU basketball. His college and AAU record is 335 wins and 163 losses. Spanning a 42-year period, his career in amateur athletics included stops at Concordia College in Minnesota, Central Missouri State College, the University of North Carolina, the Phillips '66ers, and Davidson.took the Davidson post as athletic director in 1955 with the basic idea of ending his coaching career. But the sudden resignation of Wildcat head coach Danny Miller in the middle of the 1955-56 season prompted the college to offer the job to Scott. He took it and remained at the helm until 1960. Some of Scott's major accomplishments while at Davidson have been the development of the Charlotte Invitational Tournament, which Davidson hosts, and the bringing of the Eastern Regionals and the Southern Conference Tournament to the Charlotte Coliseum. He has been a valuable asset to the South in putting national emphasis on basketball here. Recently he has served as chairman of the NCAA’s basketball committee, which oversees the operation of the national basketball tournament.

Scott attended college at Pittsburg State Teachers College, where he was named all-state in Kansas and played for three undefeated teams from 1926 until 1930. The native of Franklin, Kansas began his career as a coach and administrator at Moundridge, Kansas during the 1930-31 year. Positions at Halstead High in Halstead, Kansas and Moorhead, Minn. followed before he assumed his first college position at Concordia. He received his master's degree from the University of Iowa in 1937 and his doctorate from Columbia University in 1955.

Scott has also served Davidson in the role of golf coach. He took this position in 1955 and has led his teams to five Southern Conference championships. During Scott's administration here, the school has made several important movements in the athletic arena. Football was made a reputable Wildcat sport. New coach Homer Smith brought this about. Basketball shot into national limelight. Lefty Driesell accomplished this. It was Scott who went out and got Driesell and Smith. Richardson Field has been renovated and Johnston Gym has enlarged its seating capacity during Scott’s stay at Davidson. The Lake Campus has also been added as a haven for water sports.

Davidson Athletes Honored At Annual Awards Banquet
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE, Sports Editor

John Falconi, a junior from New York City, grabbed the most valuable player award in basketball, while Woody Montgomery, an Asheville senior, reaped the similar honor for football at the Davidson College Athletic Banquet for 1973. Falconi averaged 16.1 points per game for the Cat cagers this past season. He was also named to the all-Southern Conference team as he paced Davidson to an 18-9 regular season record and a first-place finish in the conference standings. Montgomery, who co-captained the 1972 gridders for the second consecutive year, played a key role for the Wildcats at his linebacking spot. He also set three school records in field goal kicking; one for the most in one season (nine of 11), another for the most in a single game (three versus Bucknell), and one for the longest (a 45-yarder against William and Mary).

Tracy Charles, the coed participant on the sailing team, was mentioned as the first female in Davidson athletic history to letter in an intercollegiate sport. The other awards are listed here:

Cross Country: most valuable.
Track: Ricky Bell, most valuable; David Crumpler, Fetzer Award.
Football: Mike Creasman, loyalty; George King, Academic Award; Woody Montgomery, most valuable; Jimmy Hardison, LaFar Defensive Award; Frank Shinn, Armfield Blocking Trophy; Jimmy Hankinson, Stowe Memorial Scholarship; Bill Garrett, Fuller Award.
Soccer: John Robison, most valuable.
Tennis: David Weaver, most valuable, Harry Fogleman Award.
Basketball: John Falconi, John M. Belk Most Valuable; T. Jay Pecorak, McLeod Defensive Award; John Pecorak, D. G. Martin Award; Mike Sorrentino, foul shooting; Larry Horowitz, rebounding.
Rifle: Dixon McCoy, most valuable.
Swimming: John Scholer, Dick Redding most valuable; Rusty Saylor, Bill Ray high point award.
Baseball: Jack Willits, Fielding Clark most valuable; Gary Pomeroy, Rick Smyre award.
Wrestling: Rob Benton, most valuable.
Sailing: Daryl Douglas, most valuable.
Golf: Rusty Boyd, most valuable.
Outstanding Freshman Athlete: Jay Powell.
Managers: John Simms, outstanding manager, Martin MacDowell, student trainer award.