Che BDauvidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR APRIL 20, 1973

A Change In The Weather

We find the housing predicament that many Davidson students are now faced with to be totally amazing. No one seems
to know exactly what is going to happen to the hundred or so freshmen presently without rooms. It is debatable
whether 100 upperclassmen are going to be willing to give up their rooms to face the uncertainty of finding off-campus
housing. Yet no contingency plans seem to have been drawn up to face this eventuality. We suppose that the housing
officials will just play it by ear, which is certainly not acceptable to the student body.

This latest crisis is just one in a series of blunders made by the administration with regard to student housing.
Last year when the final report on coeducation was made, there was ample warning given of the need for more
housing. At the time, everyone seemed to feel that this need would be met. In this regard, we have been
deceived. Not only has the deadline for the completion of new dorms been moved back another year, but the administration
lost a good chance to get federal money in the winter at a low interest rate, because of delays. What
this all means is that much more money must now be raised to pay for any new housing. However, the
college has not even completed the fund raising for the new library. It's anybody’s guess when the money for the
housing can be raised.

The effects of these complications can only mean two things for Davidson students. First, many students will have to live
in the new apartments being planned for Lake Norman. In this regard, we can only hope that the apartments will
be ready for occupation in the fall and suitable in price and accommodations for students. And secondly, as Director of
Student Housing Scotty Nicholls indicated, the enrollment will have to be frozen for next year, which probably means that increases
in the number of coeds will also have to wait. However, by now students have gotten used to this kind
of treatment. There is nothing we can do now but hope and pray for a change in the weather.

PIRG

We are always happy to see evidence of students making an effort to be involved in the structure of Davidson.
Consequently, we applaud and support the work being done by senior Mike Ernst and freshman Andy Lamas to initiate a
Davidson chapter of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (PIRG). The SGA Senate has given its endorsement to PIRG,
now the question is in the hands of the student body. This week the campus will be canvassed for signatures
authorizing the Administration to add $5 to each student’s annual fee to fund the group. It seems an agreeable price
to pay for such a chance to expand one’s experience at Davidson, with the possible added attraction of Extended Studies
credit. We encourage every student seriously to consider the opportunities presented by PIRG and to attend their open end, Monday,
April 30.

Merited Recognition

The turnout and reception given Senator Sam Ervin when he appeared on campus Wednesday was a welcome change from the
normal student reaction of apathy and indifference to visiting lecturers. The standing ovations signify well-merited recognition of a man who
has done much to preserve the integrity of the Constitution, and who finally made Richard Nixon capitulate, allowing his aides
to testify on the Watergate affair. Our appreciation goes out to the Philanthropic Society who brought the Senator to our
campus. Finally, we would urge students to attend more of the lecturers, who although they might not be as prominent
as Senator Ervin, also have much to offer if students would only give them the chance.

MILES WARD

Calabash Excursionists Learn Not To Expect The Ordinary

With each day that came we overtook Easter and holidays and there was nothing I could do about it. I
had known for some time that the end of this season would be an unhappy one. With this feeling I
was content to roll with the punches for the next month or so. Things were much better when we got
in the car to drive to Calabash. We had decided on about Wednesday, Ken, Speedy, Addison and myself, to leave
after lunch, drive to Myrtle Beach for supper and return that night. Ralph at the Hub said “Try Calabash” and
so did everyone else and that's where we went.

The drive from Charlotte wound down into Carolina. The day was more like summer than any Easter day. The sun
was out and it was just warm enough to have to drink for the whole afternoon, riding along, the white
Carolina sun parching all the skin on the outside. I can’t tell you how good beer tastes on days like
this. There is nothing I’d rather do than sip and ride along. Beer is probably the second best thing in
the world. Somewhere around the border of South Carolina, the Yadkin River changes its name to the Pee Dee. We
rode along in this, the famous “way to the beach” so traveled in the summer. As the...Piedmont plateau slopes gently
downward. You find yourself on land that long ago was the floor of the ocean. It is now a place
where if there was ever any natural beauty to the land, it had been stripped away by those ancient oceans.
All that was left were plains of caked white and yellow sands, hardly able to support vegetation. The land looked
as if it were covered or submerged in a vast drought. The scruffy scrub and small trees were interspersed with
places where water had once been. There were trade winds. We realized that above the Grandaddy power line, the rest
of the state was the farthest south of a bunch of nothing I've ever seen.

“Yeah.”
“Yeah man. Somebody hand me a beer, will you?”

It was one o'clock when we reached Darlington. There, 30 feet from the highway, is a shrine consecrated to the
gods of engine noise and high-speed driving. It was a time of festival and we saw thousands of pilgrims who
had made their way here for the races this weekend. It was hard not to think of a book like
“Growing Up Red in America” coming out of a town like this. Race tracks and country music here attracted the
two enigmas of our culture: the remaining freaks, the dudes, and those lovable rednecks who will always make themselves known.

We continued our journey and soon reached Myrtle Beach. I had always wanted to do some cool long trenchers there,
but they were all closed and the place felt empty. Anyway, we made the thirty miles more to Calabash in
a sort of numbness. Calabash—I thought it was a pipe that Sherlock Holmes always carried, or maybe just another junk
city like Myrtle Beach.

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra will present two major works, Johannes Brahms' “A German Requiem” and “A Symphony of Psalms” by
Igor Stravinsky, in the final concert of the 1972-73 season at Ovens Auditorium on Wednesday at 8:15 pm. The Requiem,
deviating from the accepted liturgical text, is a personal statement of faith. The Psalms are sung in Latin, following the
text of the Vulgate. As a whole, the composition is Stravinsky's attempt to create an “organic entity,” relying mainly upon
contrapuntal development. Featured in both performances will be the choruses from UNC-Charlotte and Pfeiffer College, and guest soprano Janice Harsant
and baritone Charles Letan.

The Original Rock 'n Roll Revival, featuring the greatest artists of the '50s, will be presented in concert at the
Charlotte Coliseum on April 2 at 8:00 pm. Featured artists include Chuck Berry, Bill Haley & The Comets, The Platters,
and The Coasters. Tickets can be purchased at the Coliseum box office.

“Promises, Promises,” Neil Simon's Broadway hit based on the screenplay “The Apartment,” is playing at the Pineville Dinner Theatre and
will continue until May 20. With music and lyrics by Burt Bacharach and Hal David, the play has been described
as having “one of the wittiest books a musical has possessed in years.” Tickets are from $7 to $10 and
reservations may be made by calling the theatre.

The exhibition of paintings by Anne Taylor of Baltimore, Md., continues at Gallery 501 of the Mint Museum of Art,
featuring works by the artist in oil and collage, and will run through April 29. Photography by John Daughtry, presently
a photographer for the Charlotte Observer, will be presented in the Garden Gallery at the Mint Museum of Art beginning
Saturday. The exhibition will feature two studies of “The House as Family Laundress,” and other selected works.
