Page Twelve February 23, 1973

The Davidsonian

Friday, February 23
All week - Art Exhibit: Jim McCormic, Stowe Galleries
11 a.m. - N.C. Internship Program, Honors College
8 p.m. - Popular Film: "A Man Called Horse," Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. - Juno and the Paycock, Hodson Hall
10 p.m. - Popular Film: Repeat, Morrison Room

Saturday, February 24
6 p.m. - ROTC Program, Erwin Lodge
8 p.m. - Popular Film: "A Man Called Horse," Morrison Room
10 p.m. - Popular Film: Repeat, Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. - Juno and the Paycock, Hodson Hall

Sunday, February 25
7:30 p.m. - Film: "Mechanics of the Brain," Morrison Room

Monday, February 26
9:30 a.m. - Integon, Martin Room
8 p.m. - Women’s Lib, Love Auditorium
9:45 p.m. - Christian Fellowship, Martin Room

Tuesday, February 27
All day - U.S. General Accounting Office, Cunningham Room
All day - Lehigh-Portland, Martin Room
10 a.m. - Any Questions? Dr. Spencer, Ovens Room
2 p.m. - Women’s Lib, Love Auditorium and Hodson Hall

Wednesday, February 28
All day - North Carolina National Bank, Martin Room
All day - First National Bank of South Carolina, Cunningham Room
8 p.m. - Fine Film: "Citizen Kane," Love Auditorium
8 p.m. - Women’s Lib, Love Auditorium and Hodson Hall

Thursday, March 1
7 p.m. - Catholic Mass, Phi Hall
8 p.m. - UNC-C Gospel Choir, Hodson Hall

Friday, March 2
All day - Pilot Lite, Martin Room

Outing Club Members Explore
By JIM JERNIGAN, Staff Writer

Under the leadership of Scott Schreiber, the Davidson Outing Club will journey to the White Mountains of Maine during the
spring break. Snowshoeing will be the prime activity along marked trails. "Cold weather camping will be a challenge in itself,"
exclaimed Schreiber. The group will leave March 14 from the college and return March 20, the day before classes resume.
Specific details of the trip will be made as soon as a firm count of participants has been made. Interested
persons should contact Schreiber, Tom Jenkins, or Tom Hatley immediately.

Biology Professor Tom Daggy has asked the Outing Club to publicize his extended studies’ nature inventory of Rocky Face. A
group of four to eight students will assist Daggy in an intensive survey of this biologically unique mountain. Rocky Face
is an abandoned rock quarry located 75 minutes from Davidson near Hiddenite, N.C. Besides its vertical face, the mountain has
a steeply sloping side which supports a varied plant and animal fauna.

The Outing Club is also investigating the possibility of establishing a co-op with the N.C. Outward Bound program. Duke and
St. Andrews already have programs which enable a student to gain academic credit.

Trustees Consider Budget Today
(Continued From Page 1)

In addition to the budget, the Finance and Management Committee will present proposals on a new faculty-staff housing area, medical
insurance for retired personnel, and a proposal regarding the town’s development. Mr. G. Don Davidson, chairman of the Religious Policy
and Programs Committee, will report on its efforts to find a new chaplain. It is expected to report that no
one has yet been found, but that candidates are still being interviewed and that we will have a chaplain by
spring.

The Development Committee is expected to have a progress report on the Queens-Davidson Fund Drive. This is an effort to
raise several million dollars from Presbyterian synods in North Carolina and Florida. A large part of Davidson's share of this
money is slated to go to the E. H. Little Library.

Dean of Students Will Terry will present a progress report for the Student Life and Health Committee which has been
concerned with finding a new college physician. The committee has also been looking into working out a plan to have
aNew area clinic in Huntersville provides financial aid.

Financial Aid Affected (Continued From Page 1)

Miller stated that the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators is lobbying presently to have enactment of the Basic
Opportunity Grants delayed a year because of the lack of time to implement it. “There is going to be some
kind of clash between the Congress and the Administration because of these requests. The Congress had approved the Basic Opportunity
Grant in addition to the existing, not instead of, the Direct Student Loans and the Supplemental Opportunity Grants," Miller said.

An important aspect of the new funding will be the shift to direct government subsidy, rather than subsidy through the
institutions. “The Basic Opportunity Grant will be administered by the government; the arrangement will be between the government and the
student. Financial aid administrators are somewhat skeptical that this machinery can be assembled in time for next fall, as the
administration's budget provides,” Miller said.

The federal commitment to Davidson currently accounts for 31 percent of the total college expenditure for financial health services for
the college. Terry and Trustee W. Blair Gwynn will present a progress report on student housing for the Budget, Buildings,
and Grounds Committee. Cornell will outline proposals for financing this housing.

This year’s meeting of 42 trustees will probably be the last time that there are this many trustees. Changes in
the by-laws were made which will reduce the number of trustees elected by the Presbyterian Synods. The rules were also
changed to prevent trustees from serving more than twelve consecutive years.

Rent — Furniture

BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET “It’s Incomparable” Sandwiches — Pizza Sundaes 50 FLAVOR SHAKES 10-9 P.M.

By studying outdoor survival, it might be possible to gain extended studies’ credit during the summer or during a mini-mester
in a 4-1-4 calendar. St. Andrews’ students recently spent a month in the mountains of North Carolina.

Up n Coming Maine Mountains This Spring

Other activities in the spring will include an overnight bike hike, a weekend hiking trip to Linville Gorge, and a
visit to the N.C. coastal areas. A rock climbing seminar for PE credit will probably be offered, but help is
needed in organizing the course.

Griffiths Keynotes Medical Care Symposium In Spring

Rep. Martha W. Griffiths (D.-Mich.), one of Congress's most powerful leaders and a sponsor of the Health Security Act, will
be the keynote speaker in a symposium on medical care at Davidson College March 29-30. Ms. Griffiths has sponsored a
proposal for a system of national health insurance with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D.-Mass.). She is also the leading Congressional
supporter of the Equal Rights Amendment, guaranteeing equal rights to women, now being voted on by the states.

Also speaking in the symposium will be Edward R. Annis, former president of the American Medical Association, present chairman of
the Physicians Planning Service Corporation, and a frequent spokesman on national television for the AMA; and Bernard T. Hurley Jr.,
vice president of the group department, Provident Life and Accident Insurance Co., and chairman of two committees of the National
Health Insurance Council.

“The $80 billion a year medical industry has been called the fastest growing failing industry in the nation,” said Howard
B. Arbuckle II, director of alumni relations and a member of the student-faculty-staff committee planning the symposium. “Widespread complaints about
this country’s medical system indicate that the system has an illness. Our symposium will try to analyze the symptoms and
identify some possible remedies,” he explained.

Tues., Feb. 27: Warren Farrell 2:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall
Tues., Feb. 27: Sissy Farenthold 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium
Wed., Feb. 28: Ann Scott Love Auditorium (directly following ‘Citizen Kane’)

50% Off On Sweaters Jeans Sports Shirts Dress Pants From Mon. Feb. 26th to Sat. March 3rd

The Red Hanger
UCK’s Elephant Barn
115 N. Main
892-1455
