Page Six February 2, 1973 The Davidsonian

Action, Violence, Peckinpah Figure Sharply In ‘Getaway’

A REVIEW By BOB WRIGHT Staff Writer

Sam Peckinpah is widely regarded as one of the finest filmmakers of our time, and just about as widely criticized
for having a gross obsession with blood and guts and a general disdain for whatever is admirable or beautiful in
man. It’s all true and it's all in his latest film, "The Getaway," a fast, tight, tough movie set in
contemporary Texas. The settings are a grim succession of modern, asphalt-and-McDonalds towns, washed over and out by suffocating heat and
blinding Texas afternoon glare. Through this landscape, we follow two slick thieves (maybe robbers is a better word), Steve McQueen
and Ali McGraw. There is no doubt that these are two of the most attractive faces in Hollywood, and here,
not surprisingly, they shine.

McQueen plays Doc, a hard loser who owes favors to the wrong people. Ali McGraw is his wife, a tough
Dallas bitch, but lovable at the same time, ya dig? Well, neither did I, but she's good. She really is.
She has a scene in the back seat of a junked Volkswagen that knocked me over. And McQueen also seems
like a better actor these days, witness "The Getaway" (which may be his best role in a long time) vs.
"The Sand Pebbles" of a few years back. Not to mention "The Blob" of a few further years back.

Peckinpah has his usual succession of excellent secondary characters, this time headed up by Ben Johnson as the head bad
guy, Al Lettieri as a hustler who gets in on McQueen's act, Slim Pickens in a beautiful small role at
the end, and Sally Struthers (yeah, she’s the one) as a sexy, dumb wife, Fran, who is ready to do
just about anything to anybody.

One of Peckinpah's "trademarks" is his intense interest in violence and how to show it most effectively on the screen.
He loves to knock the hell out of you, in other words. He also delights in intercutting incongruous images into
his most violent scenes. In "The Getaway," the first man to go gets shot in the groin and through the
chest and is then thrown out of a moving car into the street. Where he is happened upon a few
seconds later by three sweetly smiling Texas children. It’s so out of place, it's almost funny. But it isn’t, it
can't be.

With "The Getaway," his most clearly amoral film yet, Sam Peckinpah has put himself in quite a position. He is
a filmmaker with all the marks of genius, who gives us one of the grimmest views of humankind we've seen
in many years. Maybe we need Sam Peckinpah to show us that our feet are still firmly implanted in the
primordial mud. Of course, maybe we don't, the mud is still very real on the news every night; but few
filmmakers show us ourselves with so hard an edge as Peckinpah. Rarely is he as slick as in "The Getaway."
I know you'll enjoy it when you see it, whether you'll like it or not is a different question entirely.

Images from India

Today is the last day that "Images from India" will be exhibited in Cunningham Fine Arts Center. This is one
of a collection of 58 black and white photographs taken by Frank Bliss during his 1971-72 visit to India as
Fulbright Visiting Professor of American Literature at the University of Poona.

‘A Separate Peace’ Quietly Rewarding

A REVIEW By BOB WRIGHT Staff Writer

Director Larry Peerce, whose previous films, "The Sporting Club" and "Goodbye, Columbus," have met with mixed reviews at best, has
faithfully adapted John Knowles’ sensitive and literate first novel, "A Separate Peace," for the screen. So faithfully in fact that
one wonders if he didn't use some dogeared high school English paperback as his shooting script. This rather meticulous approach
to making famous books into famous movies certainly has its drawbacks, and I'm afraid Mr. Peerce and script writer Fred
Segal have fallen prey to a good many of them. Much of the book’s appeal and meaning lies in Knowles’
use of a telling phrase here or an ominous word there to keep the

Irish ‘Juno And The Paycock’ Presents Production Problems

By THOM NICOLL Asst. Managing Editor

The second major drama production of the year will be "Juno and the Paycock" by Sean O’Casey, according to Drama
Professor and Director Rupert T. Barber. However, he says that the Irish play has several production problems. Barber considers one
major problem to be the Irish brogue. “It is so difficult, but there is no point in doing an Irish
play without it.” He said that the cast had been listening to Irish recordings to learn the accent. Another difficulty
stems from the importance of character as opposed to action in the play. “The actors must be able to project
the meaning in their roles,” Barber said. “This play requires much more interaction with the audience than most plays. The
actors must work as a group, not as individuals,” he said.

Technical problems arose from the need for realism in the production. For example, Barber said he was trying to decide
whether to cook sausages and have running water on stage. “We also need an old-fashioned record player with a big
horn and crank,” Barber said. He alsomentioned the dilemma of finding appropriate ‘new’ furniture for the poor Irish family to
buy. Barber said that he had to do research on the cultural patterns of the Dublin slum-dwellers of the 1920s.
“For instance, we needed to know what would have been a typical supper.” The cast is becoming familiar with the
historical background of the play to present it more effectively, according to Barber. The setting is the “Time of the
Troubles” in Ireland in the years 1922-24. “At that time, the conflict was more of a civil war all over
Ireland and the issues were not so specifically religious as they are now,” Barber said. Though the play is not
about the war, it shows, according to Barber, that one can't live through such an experience without being affected by
it. “This is one reason why I wanted to do this play,” he said. According to Barber, one of the
most difficult things about presenting the play is making the transitions between the serious and the comic scenes believable. “O'Casey
manages to blend the very poignant with the humorous,” Barber said. “There are some very serious scenes, but I think
you'll find yourself laughing,” Barber commented. Another problem, Barber said, resulted from the obscurity of the songs O'Casey included in
the play. Though several characters sing, Barber has not been able to locate all of the tunes. “O'Casey must have
had a vast store of obscure folk melodies. We may have to substitute a few,” he stated. The first performance
of the play, Student Night, will be Feb. 21 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets will be $.50 for the first night,
and $1.00 for subsequent performances Feb. 22 and 23.

You can't very well use those devices on the screen, so you try and get the same points and feelings
across in other ways, in the lighting of a scene perhaps or the composition of a frame. Visual imagery must
take the place of verbal devices. Peerce presents his story, however, in an achingly straightforward way, only occasionally giving us
hints that there is more here than immediately meets the eye. When he does show us some of the depths
of his story, he does it in such an understated way that these moments would not be hard to miss.
But to miss these moments is to miss Mr. Peerce's craftsmanship. He is a very subtle director, preferring to bury
his own point of view within the intricacies of his plot. Consequently, it may take a few viewings to see
all he has to show here. The story takes place in the summer, fall, and winter of 1942-43. The film's
producers have been accused of fashionableness in their choice of this ‘nostalgic’ period, but the story could not have happened
at any other time. The war going on “out there” forms an important background to the relationship of the principal
characters, Finny and Gene, two Northern prep-school boys. Finny is the natural athlete, good-humored, likable, a born leader. Gene, his
roommate and best friend, is intelligent, articulate, more tentative and introverted than Finny.

By BILL ELLETT
Copy Editor

“Home” by David Storey will be presented by the Little Theatre of Charlotte through Feb. 10 at 8:30 p.m. with
a Sunday afternoon matinee at 2:30. Student tickets are $1.50. “Journey Into Blackness” will be presented in Dana Auditorium at
Guilford College tonight at 8:15 p.m. Performed by Voices, Inc., the musical drama carries the listener through parts of the
Black experience to the slave ships, cotton fields, railroad tracks, tenement houses, good-time bar rooms, and rocking church houses. “Boeing
Boeing” continues at the Pineville Dinner Theatre through Feb. 18. The buffet opens at 7:30 p.m. with the curtain rising
at 8:30. Tickets are $7.50 Sunday, $8.50 Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday.

Together they form the ‘Super Suicide Society,’ a club whose initiation involves jumping off the limb of a tall tree
into the river below. One day in the tree, Gene and Finny are about to make a double jump when
Gene surreptitiously shakes the limb and causes Finny to fall, breaking his leg on the shore below. The boys spend
the rest of the film working out the emotional implications of Gene's betrayal and the reasons behind it. The truth
is brought out in a kangaroo court session and Finny suffers another break when he falls down a flight of
stairs in his anger at Gene. He is operated on the next day, but there are complications, and Finny dies
on the table. Gene is left to make some rather grand implications about himself, Finny, man, and war. But that
is not to be unexpected. A little pat perhaps, but not ineffective. Should we find anything really substantial to blame
for the film's lack of success with some reviewers, I think it would have to be the director's lack of
innovation in binding himself so tightly to Knowles’ original. A change of medium must of course necessitate a change of
approach, no matter how subtle. And Larry Peerce certainly seems to understand the subtleties of filmmaking. It is his sensitive
hand and two outstanding performances by Heyl and Stevenson that make “A Separate Peace” an admirable and moving work, and
to my mind, one of the most quietly rewarding films I've seen in a long time.
