Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Vol. LXIII, No. Eleven

By ANDY LAMAS
Contributing Editor

"We are fast approaching the time when we're going to have to decide whether we are going to find the
means for additional housing or cut the pro size of the student," said Dean of Students Will Terry. Davidson College
is in the midst of a student housing crisis. The Board of Trustees has authorized an increase in enrollment to
1500 students. "In order to accommodate these additional students, we must begin immediately to provide new housing," remarked Director of
Student Housing Scotty Nichols.

Is Davidson going to provide new dormitories? So far, no one in the administration seems to know. College administrators have
been considering various alternatives for the past several months, but no one has yet arrived at a solution. "We are
in the process of considering several alternatives," stated College President Samuel R. Spencer. These several alternatives are:

1. Build the dormitories that were planned by architect Paul Rudolph, regardless of the costs of construction (approximately $2.5 million),
and raise only the room fees of the occupants of the new facilities. Estimating an 8% interest rate, the room
fees would equal at least $1400 per student in order to provide for the repayment of interest, principal, and annual
operating costs.
2. Build the dorms as presently designed and raise the room rent charge equally over the entire student body. This
would result in an increase of at least $200 to $300 in the comprehensive fee.
3. Raise new capital from foundations or alumni and divert funds from other proposed building projects. These projects include expenditures
on the union, the science buildings, and the art and physical education facilities.
4. Have architects submit plans for considerably less expensive dormitories—and consequently less innovative—than those presently under consideration.
5. Solicit private builders to construct and finance housing on college property.
6. Cease all further increases in student body enrollment. Freeze the number of students at approximately 1200.

Administrators have expressed, "If we operate under the third arrangement, it seems probable that additional student fees will still have
to be solicited in order to build the new dormitories," commented Maeen Gedte. "It's very, very possible that we may
choose the fifth alternative. Even though the quality of such apartments may not be as high as the planned housing
units which we have had designed by Rudolph, the student cost for renting this type of housing would be less
expensive," stated another administrator.

"One of these alternatives must be chosen as soon as possible," remarked Terry. It is most probable that Spencer will
present some recommendation to the Board of Trustees in February concerning the housing situation. No member of the college administration
is able to say when a final decision will be made.

(See HOUSING, page 12)

December 7, 1973

(Staff photo by Goodman)

THAT'S A MOUTHFUL
Ron Scott of ARA Slater is to begin to implement several new policies to counteract spiraling food costs. The above
coed will soon face higher prices for her lunch.

Soaring Food Prices Force Alteration In ARA Services

By BRUCE CORSER
Managing Editor

Due to what Director of ARA Slater Ron Scott termed "terrific cost increases," several new policies will be implemented to
offset the spiraling cost of food. It proposes to eliminate the "no limit" refill policy.

Funds Survive Stock Plunge

On November 29, 1973, the Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 29.05 points to 824.95; that was the biggest drop in
over 11 years and the fifth largest ever. The tumbling market has a direct impact on college finances throughout the
country. However, according to Vice President of Finance and Development C. David Cornell, the effect on Davidson will be minimal
when taken in the context of the total financial endowment invested in the stock market in common stocks, bonds, preferred
stocks, and other securities.

Hamilton

James Hamilton, a 1960 Davidson College alumnus serving as assistant counsel for the Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities
("Watergate"), will speak at Davidson Tuesday, December 11 on the workings of that famous committee. Mr. Hamilton will speak at
10:00.a.m. in Phi Hall and there will be an informal coffee in the Morrison Room at the College Union at
11 a.m. Stocks or convertible debentures are just one source of revenue for the college. Cornell emphasized that student fees,
income from the Duke Trust, the Annual Fund, and the Wildcat Fund all represent slices of the annual budget. Davidson's
policy marks 15 percent for senior securities. This category includes preferred stocks, bonds, or convertible debentures. The remaining 85 percent
is allocated for common stocks. These stocks are of the blue-chip variety and include American Express, Avon, Xerox, and I.B.M.
In most cases, these stocks are still worth more now than when Davidson bought them. Cornell explained that the college’s
investment policies are based on projected long-term trends rather than transient market fluctuations. A basic premise now governing long-term investment
is that the stock market will show an upward trend due to an inflationary economy. “The best way to hedge
against inflation,” Cornell said, “is to put 85 percent of the investible endowment into equities that ensure a more rapid
growth than the senior securities.”

The New York-based investment counseling firm Scudder, Stevens, and Clark actually handles Davidson's stock market ventures. “They are our counsel
and advise us to get into different stocks,” Cornell observed. “For instance, now Davidson only holds shares in one petroleum
stock.” Endowment invested in stocks and bonds has tended to appreciate over a period of years. For example, in Sept.
1973 the total securities owned by Davidson had cost $13,005,000. However, their market value at that time was $20,272,000. This
invested endowment provides the college with income for its operating budget. During each fiscal year, an average is taken of
the combined value of senior securities and equities for the past three years. From this average amount, five percent is
withdrawn in the form of interest, dividends, or appreciation. “This is a common practice for colleges,” Cornell indicated. “Each bad
year is hopefully balanced by two good ones. The ideal is to have three prosperous years.”

On all beverages excluding coffee and hot tea, Scott noted that students had been abusing the privilege by taking excessive
amounts of drinks. Also, the price of milk is to be hiked to 20 cents per glass, up from 15
cents. At breakfast, eggs, bacon, and sausage will cost more. These items are running 60 percent higher wholesale than last
year. Line prices of vegetables, baked goods, salads, potatoes, and starches will face a similar increase to counter elevated wholesale
costs. Scott observed that all purveyors have the lawful right to pass on price increases. Also, with the energy crisis,
delivery costs have risen along with the price of food. Presently, Slater is experiencing a 5-6 percent increase over projected
food costs. The main reason for this is that there has been a 20 percent wholesale cost increase on food
supplies over last year as reported by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Federal Wage and Price Control Board.
Slater proposed last April only an 8 percent increase implemented in September 1973. Thus, the only recourse left to Slater
is to charge more until readjustments can be made at the beginning of the next academic year. Notably, the 8
percent (See SLATER, page 7)

Students To Decide On Christmas Project
By MARK WILENSKY
Asst. Managing Editor

People in the world are hungry. People “across the tracks” don’t have the money to fund the Day Care Center
they need so desperately. In an effort to coordinate and combine the efforts of many of the campus organizations, the
Christmas gift project is being reestablished at Davidson this year. The project is a chance to...

The project was a long-standing tradition at Davidson, but has not been followed through in recent years. The goal is
to raise a sum of money and donate it to a project representing the concern of Davidson students, and a
project to raise money to help the Davidson-Cornelius Day Care Center meet its operating expenses. On Dec. 11, students will
vote to channel project funds (See STUDENTS, page 12)
