Page Two January 19, 1973 The Davidsonian

EPC To Consider Proposed Annual Freshman Symposium
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Contributing Editor

When the Educational Policy Committee meets later this month, it will consider a proposal for a Freshman Symposium.

The proposed symposium would be required during the fall term for all freshmen and would focus upon five major literary works, drawn from diverse disciplines and historical periods. According to Hansford Epes, a member of the committee which proposed the symposium, its content would include the humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and the arts. The symposium would replace Extended Studies and would be graded on a pass-fail basis. Work done in the symposium would also fulfill the freshman composition requirement.

Under the proposal, a freshman class of 300 would be divided into discussion groups of 15 students each. Although the basic reading would be standard for all groups, the discussion leader would be free to choose his approach and supplement the material in any way. Although no materials have been selected, Epes said that something from the Renaissance and something from the Greco-Roman period would probably be used. Discussion groups would meet outdoors, at a professor's home, over lunch, or in other informal settings as well as in the classroom. He called the symposium’s format “planned informality.”

"It's important for the freshmen to become acquainted with faculty members as people, not just as sources of information,” he said. One of the primary goals of the symposium would be to provide a common experience for all freshmen, and eventually one that all upperclassmen and faculty have also shared. “It will provide at least a minimal common language,” said Epes, adding that he felt the symposium would mean a greater sense of community among faculty and students. “It will also help maintain the sort of interdisciplinary atmosphere which is vital to a liberal arts environment," he said. “The symposium would also serve as an orientation to college-level study in an atmosphere that is intellectually rigorous," Epes said. “The freshman year is probably the most important year in terms of the educational experience one gets in subsequent years.”

The program would involve extensive practice in written and oral discussion. Epes sees the symposium as not only a learning experience for students but for faculty as well. All faculty would participate in the program over the course of several years. “It will give the faculty a chance to participate in a common educational experience and I think it would prove beneficial for everyone who participates," he said.

Epes admits that additional funds will be needed to make the symposium a reality, but he feels that the benefits of the program would be worth the cost. It may also be possible to obtain foundation grants to cover at least some of the expenses. There are also problems involving scheduling courses around the symposium. Epes said that “probably everybody's chief worry concerning the symposium is teaching load complications.” He suggests, however, that a possible solution may involve shifting some courses to the spring term, or hiring additional faculty. Efforts would be made to avoid duplicating material to be covered in the humanities sequence.

Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

News Editor:
TOM AINSWORTH

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Assistant Managing Editors:
BOB HOWELL
BRUCE MALOY
THOM NICOLL
MIKE TANNER

Assistant Features Editor:
JOHN CASSELS

Copy Editor:
BILL ELLETT

Photographers:
ROB PETERSON
JIM PORTER
ROB STRAND

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
ROBERT TOUCHTON
GRAY WILSON

Contributing Editors:
TOM BRUCE
TODD EADES
RICHARD ROMEYN

Assistant Sports Editors:
DAVID MELTON
JIM SITTERSON
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKOM
PAUL MITCHELL
JOHN LEMMON

Assistant Business Managers:
CLIFF KIRK
RICHARD ROMEYN
RICH SMITH
PHIL STIKES

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
ROBERT GATES

Contributors this week:
Betsy Alexander, Bruce Corser, Mark Deaton, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Alan Ford, Mary Hobbie, Harriett Hodges, Jim Jernigan, Hugh Moore, Ford Newman, Charlie Slagle, and Val Van Horne.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. 28036 by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.

To avoid conflict between the symposium and humanities, Epes suggests that the humanities sequence be moved back a term so that it would begin in the winter of the freshman year and end in the fall of the junior year.

Freshman symposiums or seminars are part of the curriculum at The College of Wooster and Hiram College, both in Ohio, and in other liberal arts colleges across the country. The program at Hiram is even more extensive than that planned for Davidson in that it runs the duration of the entire freshman year.

The immediate source of the Freshman Symposium concept was a North Carolina Commission on Curricular Reform attended by several Davidson faculty this past summer.By HARRIETT HODGES, Staff Writer

Former Attorney General Ramsey Clark is among participants in the Symposium on Corrections to be held here January 22-24. The three-day program will include several addresses, a panel discussion, several workshops, and two showings of the film ‘Attica’. Former Attorney General Clark will speak twice during the symposium.

“We are very fortunate to have Ramsey Clark speak here,” Assistant Director of the College Union Peter Sterling said. “He has the reputation of being one who is very active in the reformation of corrections.”

Other speakers in the symposium will be Frank Hall, a member of the North Carolina Commission of Corrections, and John Cone, corrections reformer and director of Project Fisherman in Boston, Mass. “Project Fisherman involves work with inmates both in prison and after being released,” Sterling said.

Hall will speak in place of N.C. Commissioner of Corrections Lee Bounds who is unable to attend. Both Hall and Cone will participate in Tuesday's panel discussion. George Daly, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, will also serve as a panelist. Other panelists will be Charlotte attorney Peter and an inmate from one of the N.C. corrections institutions.

The hour and a half workshops on Wednesday will focus on specific problems in the corrections system. Each workshop will begin with a short statement by the man presiding over it, according to Sterling. Then the workshops will be open for discussion, he said. Inmates from N.C. institutions will be at all the workshops to provide a balance to the program, Sterling said.

Two of the workshops will focus on issues of special importance at this time. “The question of the legal rights of prisoners is an important new field,” Sterling said. William S. McAninch, associate professor of Law at the University of South Carolina, who will direct the workshop, has led a national study on this subject. Another workshop will deal with the problem of juvenile corrections. “This is especially important in view of the fact that one third of all crime in North Carolina is committed by people under 18,” Sterling said.

The symposium on Corrections has been in the making since January of last year. “We anticipate a lot of community response as well as college response,” Sterling said. The purpose of the symposium is to give everyone “a taste of what is needed in the way of prison reform,” according to Kent Nearing, a coordinator of the program. “Reform will never come until the general public is informed about what corrections is all about.”

Sterling called this symposium “the biggest the college has done in the last four or five years.” He also said that the symposium is notable because the YMCA, the SGA, the Student Union, and the public lectures committee are all working together to fund the program.

SGA Recommends Split Winter Term

By TOM AINSWORTH, News Editor

The fate of Davidson's curriculum calendar for the 1973-74 academic year has been debated for the past two weeks in the SGA. In response to the proposed Educational Policy Committee calendar which places two terms after Christmas break, the SGA unanimously elected to adopt a 4-6 split winter term calendar in its last Tuesday night meeting.

The advantages of the adopted calendar include a relatively early starting and finishing date for the school year, a Christmas vacation from December 21 to January 7, and a Spring vacation of almost two weeks. Drawn up by the Educational Affairs Committee of the SGA, the proposed new calendar is due to come before the EPC for evaluation in the next week.

Also of significant interest at the Senate's January 9 meeting was the report by Steve Shepherd and John Weathers on a student legal rights handbook. The two seniors, who attended a student rights conference in Atlanta over Christmas, want to concentrate on student property rights and “arbitrary grading on the part of professors.” The report should be available by the end of Winter term.

Rick Damewood's Course Evaluation Handbook, also reported on in the same meeting, should be completed in “the near future” according to its editor.

An SGA questionnaire pertaining to the necessity for either a “Wildcat Handbook” or “Quips and Cranks” was reviewed in last Tuesday's meeting. The questionnaire will decide student support for either publication and help to ascertain the budget of both depending on a favorable response.

Senator Doug Sitler's proposal for an information committee, comprised of upperclassmen who are knowledgeable in the administrative power system, went undiscussed last Tuesday night. The group would be able to “plot political strategy against the Administration” and “instruct others on the hierarchical power structure” so as to help students interested in starting a project but ignorant in the ways of establishing it, explained Sitler.