Page Eight May 18, 1973

Spring Football Ends In Alumni Final

Alumni, Cats Set To Clash

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Sporting many players with pro football experience, the Davidson alumni team challenges the 1973 Wildcat football squad tomorrow at 2 p.m. Heading the cast of alumni who will compete in the contest are Gordon Slade, Mike Mikolayunas, and Steve Heckard. Slade was the Southern Conference player of the year in 1969 and played in the Coaches All-America game. He was drafted by the Baltimore Colts. Mikolayunas topped the nation in receiving in 1970. He also spent some time with the Colts. Heckard played in the NFL with both the Los Angeles Rams and the New Orleans Saints.

Acting as coach for the Alumni team will be Mike Kelly, a 1970 graduate. He spent the last three years with the Cincinnati Bengals and was recently traded to the New Orleans Saints. NFL rules prohibit him from playing in the game. Former basketball player Wayne Huckel will also participate in the third annual event. Huckel did not play football for the Cats, but did sign as a free agent with the Dallas Cowboys following his graduation in 1969.

Also suiting up for the Alumni will be Jimmy Poole, another past grid star for the Cats. Poole was an all-conference quarterback as well as Southern Conference player of the year in the late 1960s. Basketball coach Terry Holland will also compete for the former Davidson men. Otherwise known as the “Clinton Flash,” Holland will be in uniform for the second straight year. Last time he played, but failed to catch a pass. “I'll do better this time,” Holland vowed.

Kerry Keith, a 1968 graduate, will play, as will Scotty Shipp. Keith holds the school record for career rushing, while Shipp quarterbacked the Cats this past season and was ninth in the nation in passing. Other recent Wildcat stars who will play include Frank Rader, John Harper, Robert Norris, Joe Poteat, and Sean McCormick.

A DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL FALL SPORTS PREVIEW

In addition to Shipp, other 1972 performers who will play are tackle Bill Nicklas, tackles Larry Spears and Bruce Becker, defensive lineman Bill Garrett, linebacker Woody Montgomery, and defensive back Mike Creasman. The game is sponsored by the Wildcat Club. There will be an admission fee of $1 for everyone except Davidson students, faculty, and staff. Sandy Carnegie, head of the Wildcat Club and coordinator of the game, announced that Rev. J. I. Knight, an alumnus from 1922, will serve as honorary captain and chaplain for the old grads. Dr. J. B. Woods, class of 1918, will be the team doctor. “That's fitting,” Carnegie said. “Over the years he has treated just about everyone who will play for the alumni.”

With a large array of passers, the alumni will have a very potent attack on paper. If they are able to use this weapon effectively, it should be a strong test of the coming year's defensive alignment. The game will be preceded by a Wildcat Club spring meeting at 10 a.m. in Perkins Auditorium. The meeting is open to the public. Guest speaker at that meeting will be Bill Story, a former Davidson head coach, now one of the coaches for the alumni.

Fagg Holds Hopeful View For Next Year

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Despite injuries to several key players, football head coach Dave Fagg feels that Davidson can be a “darkhorse in the Southern Conference next year. “We've already had injuries to some of the best athletes on the team,” Fagg said. “Eddie Womack, Walt Walker, John Webel, Dave Ingold, Jose Rodriguez, and Hal Paul have not been 100 percent yet,” he continued. In light of these injuries, Fagg cannot afford to be as optimistic as he would like to be concerning the Varsity-Alumni tilt this Saturday. “We might get to use Ingold and Webel on a limited basis if we're lucky. The rest of the injured men will probably not play at all,” he stated.

Thus far, Fagg has been particularly impressed with the defense in spring practice. He singled out Tom Fleischer, Jack Stultz, Jim Deville, George Weicker, Eddie Williamson, and Danny Ward for their efforts this spring. “Overall, I'd say that our defensive unit looks like our toughest hitting defensive team in a long time,” said Fagg. He also noted that Dave Harper, Gary Pomeroy, Jim Hankinson, Frank Shinn, and Mike Harding have all been impressive in spring practice. Fagg also admitted to being pleasantly surprised at the improvement of kicker Joe Duncan since last season.

The team started spring practice several weeks ago at the conclusion of the spring sports schedules. According to Fagg, the team started later than most schools because the coaching staff feels that if a team member wants to (See SPRING, Page 10)

Billiard Tables Bowling MOOR LANES Daytime Student Rates Snack Bar Pin Ball Machines Hattie’s Grill HAPPY HOUR schedule we've had in the last two or three years” was Coach Dave Fagg's initial reaction to next year’s football schedule.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE 1973 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

Tues.-Fri. 7-8 next year, it will give the Davidson students a better opportunity to watch a few games when they first arrive, than we initially thought,” Fagg said.

Fagg was especially pleased with the scheduling of East Carolina, William & Mary, and Air Force, predicting that they will be the Cat's toughest opponents. “Eight out of ten teams play major college football which will provide some really good Southern Conference games,” Fagg stated.

The ten-game schedule includes seven games with Southern Conference members. Non-conference opponents will be Wofford, Lenoir Rhyne, and Air Force.

Wofford
Sept. 15
Davidson

Richmond
Sept. 22
Davidson

Lenoir Rhyne
Sept. 29
Davidson

Appalachian
Oct. 6
Boone, N.C.

East Carolina (HC)
Oct. 13
Davidson

Furman
Oct. 20
Greenville, S.C.

William & Mary
Oct. 27
Williamsburg, Va.

Air Force
Nov. 3
Colorado Springs, Colo.

The Citadel
Nov. 10
Charleston, S.C.

VMI
Nov. 17
Lexington, Va.

SCOOT-AROUND BRITAIN & EUROPE ONLY $33 PER WEEK*

YOU GET:
- LAMBRETTA SCOOTER (TWIN SEAT)
- RACK
- DIRECTORY OF INEXPENSIVE PLACES TO STAY
- Plus lowest possible Air Fare via British Caledonian Airways

To book or for more information call toll-free in New York State 800-522-0456. In Eastern U.S. 800-221-9756 or contact TRAIL BLAZERS TRAVEL INC. 415 Madison Avenue - New York, N.Y. 10017

* Plus 25¢ per day insurance in Britain. Additional insurance charge for Continental Europe. Also available: Worldwide Camping Tours.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7. — Wed. 9-12, — Sun. 9:30-10:30
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics - Russell Stover Candies
131 N. Main St.
Davidson, N.C.
Phone 892-0208