Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
SEPTEMBER 5, 1973

The Honor System On Trial?

An examination of the stories in this week’s DAVIDSONIAN will reveal the fact that this campus and its students have
become victims to the most widespread rash of thievery that Davidson has witnessed in recent years. Davidson has been in
session scarcely a month, and already 26 bicycles have been reported missing or stolen. Even more alarming than this is
the fact that $2000 worth of cash and valuables have been stolen from the dorms, an amount greater than the
reported total for all of the past academic year.

As if this weren’t enough, Director of the Slater Food Service Ron Scott has charged that students are taking food
from the eating houses, and not paying for it with meal tickets. And in a memo to the Library Committee,
Director of the Library Chalmers Davidson has stated that electronic detection devices might have to be installed in the new
Little Library to attempt to halt the loss of library books.

The implications of these events on the whole atmosphere of trust and honesty that in the past has been a
trademark of Davidson could be far-reaching. Grumbles of discontentment with the Honor System here have been minimal in light of
the present seriousness of the problem, but we wonder how much longer such passive acceptance will prevail.

At this point, we do not feel that the Honor System is itself seriously on trial. Indications are that much
of the dorm, bicycle, and library book thefts may be traceable to outsiders of the immediate college community. However, Davidson
students cannot escape scot-free as there is still the Slater food problem and the mysterious loss of ten odd bound
volumes of library periodicals among other things to explain. We would guess that the blame for these thefts could probably
be affixed to a small handful of students, an insignificant number in relation to the community as a whole. Unfortunately,
the repercussions of their behavior are far more serious than their number.

It would be unrealistic to expect that college officials could apprehend all those involved. Instead, the entire community must act
to stop this problem. Students must be more alert to the dangers, and not tempt the sometime thief by leaving
their valuables out in the open just daring him to take them. By this, we are not advocating a full-scale
lockup of the campus, but rather a more realistic approach to security. Furthermore, everyone must be more self-appraising in his
attitude toward the Slater people and the library. The temporary elation of a petty rip-off of some food or the
illegal borrowing of a book may be satisfying, but in the long run the entire community will suffer especially if
Slater clamps down with tighter surveillance, and the library installs electronic protection devices.

So to ensure that the Honor System does not become threatened by a serious trial, everyone here must do his
or her part to promote personal integrity on the campus.

No Refund On Commitment

During the past week, 203 Davidson College students requested and received $3 refunds from the Davidson chapter of the North
Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC PIRG). The $609 refund total left the Davidson chapter contributing only slightly more than
$2000 to the statewide fundraising campaign. The NC PIRG program at Davidson allows individual students an excellent educational opportunity beyond
the limits of the Chambers classrooms. However, many Davidson students have found a $3 refund preferable to the potentially great
benefits their meager contributions could help to bring about.

Last spring when the PIRG method of funding was overwhelmingly approved by the students, PIRG agreed to refund on request
each student’s $3 contribution which is added to the school comprehensive fee. Many students this year decided to take full
advantage of the refund option. Whether the response to the refund policy on the part of these 203 students was
prompted by negative attitudes toward NC PIRG or the individuals’ need for the return of $3, the refunds have cost
the students of Davidson College and the people of North Carolina a substantial price in the lost potential to effect
change in the public interest.

Fine Arts Dilemma

While understanding the need to establish priorities in accord with the financial situation today, and the implications of our own
editorial position that a new Union is a vital necessity to the college, we...Feel that Davidson must also make plans
for improved Fine Arts facilities. For with the increased interest on the part of the males in the Arts over
the last ten years, and with the introduction of females who undoubtedly will express a strong yearning for them too,
it becomes doubly important that the Arts also be awarded a high priority for improvement. Davidson must respond to the
wishes of these students, and somehow find the money to improve these deplorable conditions, too.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Rabil Relates Real Governance Results

To the Editor:

I would like to pop a few idealistic bubbles in regard to the directions Davidson is headed in governance. The
new governance system will perhaps be functional, but it will not be a great step toward community. This has been
by the committee on governance. The governance committee is praising itself for arriving at the new system through “participatory democracy”
(refer to “The Year in Prospect”). This very term is an expression of alienation. It denies the assumed existence of
community. In regard to students, they should not be allowed a role in the decision-making process because their interests are
being affected there. They should have a role because they are simply a respected and integral part of the Davidson
Community, the “community of learners.”

The governance committee has failed to see that community is based on openness. If openness is not present, community is
extinguished. But if no mutual respect is present on everyone's part, openness will tend not to be present either. A
committee of 50 percent students and 50 percent faculty could arrive at a decision just as closed and secretively as
an all-faculty committee. Simply because a student is involved does not mean that students are involved when that one student’s
involvement is confidential. By fitting into our ideals that “participatory democracy is good and an end in itself,” we are
freezing the existing states of alienation rather than integrating members of a community. By creating the most we are not
creating either the most efficient system or the best system for an educational institution.

Our present system is convenient, efficient, functional. If we could just get it out of the back rooms and into
the open we would solve 90 percent of our problems without changing a word in the present constitutional documents. The
reform we need is a behavioral one, not a constitutional one. Any reform that does not result in an increase
in efficiency or openness is no reform at all.

Vince Rabil ’75
Davidson College

“You're next on our computer print-out to give $8 to the Y depot. So give.”

The Louis Murray Dance Company will perform at 8 p.m. on Monday, Oct. 15, at Ovens Auditorium, for the benefit
of Observer Charities. During their appearance at Ovens Auditorium, the dancers will perform “Hoopla,” accompanied by the Lisbon State Police
Band, “Proximities,” with music by Johannes Brahms, and “Continuum,” accompanied by the Corky Siegel Blues Band and Alwin Nikolais. The
Louis Dance Company received international prominence when it was chosen to represent the U.S. State Department in a two-month tour
of India in 1968. Tickets are $5, $4, and $3.

Barbara Londin of New York City will have a one-woman exhibition at the Garden Gallery of the Mint Museum Sept.
30 through Oct. Working primarily in pastels, the artist uses dreamlike images which evoke childhood images, revealing a kinship of
feeling with Redon and Ensor.

“A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum,” a hit Broadway musical, will be showing at the Pineville
Dinner Theatre until Oct. 28. The play, with its adaptations of Plautine comedy, promises to provide an evening of ribald,
slapstick enjoyment. Book is by Burt Shevelove and Larry Gelbart, and music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim.

The special collection of paintings on loan from the North Carolina Museum of Art will fill the Dwelle Gallery at
the Mint Museum until Nov. 25. The period collection is one of the more comprehensive of its kind in the
region, and extends from the sixteenth to the nineteenth century. In an attempt to relate the works to the background
of our colonial development, an “environmental exhibit” is planned. A setting of vignette room recreations of each particular period provides
a background calculated to bring the works to life for the modern observer. Painters featured in the exhibit include Elizabethan
Paul van Somer, Sir Peter Lely, John Constable, and the most recent painter, John Ruskin.
