Page Two

COED ENTERTAINER

Folksingers Jeanne Anne Williams and John Stanfield will sing and play the guitar in der Rathskeller this weekend. Sponsored by
the Union Bar Committee, there is no cover charge.

By BRUCE CORSER
Staff Writer

C. Shaw Smith, Director of the Union, has caused mixed reactions among students and administration as to the feasibility of
his proposals for a new union. Basically, these proposals consisted of a listing of what Smith thought would be necessary
or desirable in a union. A figure of 102,000 was set as the total square footage.

Vice President of Academic Affairs John Bevan said that he was “overcome by the magnitude of the projected new building.
But,” he added, “I recognize this as a tactic of putting in everything he could think of. Now it's a
matter of how to tailor it down. It's easier to have all the proposals before you and to take away
than to have to add.” As for the actual size, “It's not going to be that big,” Bevan stated. “A
decision is going to have to be made, before long, as to whether the union will be in a new
building or a renovated old building, namely the old library. But first we have to appraise the old building in
terms of adaptability through renovation," Bevan commented.

Asked if the administration had been pressuring Smith to complete the proposals, Bevan noted,

EPC To Consider Symposium In Special Meeting This Week

By RICHARD ROMEYN
Contributing Editor

In an effort to reach a decision on the proposed Freshman Symposium, the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) will meet in
a special session Wednesday night to provide sufficient time for discussion. Vice President for Academic Affairs, John Bevan, said additional
meetings will be held until a conclusion regarding the proposal is reached. Bevan explained that the additional meetings were necessary
because “other matters take up so much of the time.”

Bevan did, however, infer that he expects the EPC to present the proposal to the faculty in April. If a
symposium is to be a reality by next fall, the faculty must approve some form of the proposal by then,
Bevan said. Though discussion of the symposium proposal is still in the formative stages, Bevan indicated that he expects the
EPC to endorse either a modified version of the proposal or to advance an alternative for consideration to the faculty.
“The EPC is looking at the total perspective,” he said.

Reaction among faculty to the proposal was mixed this week. While some rejected the proposal outright, others gave reserved approval.
Bevan is supporting the proposal because he believes the usual freshman curriculum does not force questions. “It will be important
for the symposium to confront the student with ideas he had previously not been exposed to,” Bevan said. But some
faculty members are not sure that the benefits of the program would justify its expense. “I'm not completely convinced of
the program's educational value yet,” said professor of history Brown Patterson. Dan Rhodes, professor of religion, questioned whether the same
objective could be obtained in another way. However, Rhodes added that he is “generally sympathetic” to the proposal.

Many of the faculty members who voiced their support for the concept advanced in the proposal expressed doubts that the
program could be successfully implemented. One chief concern involved the additional course load which could be imposed upon participating faculty
members, and the fear that some departments would be left shorthanded. Bevan said he felt the basic concept of a
symposium should be either approved or disapproved, and that such details could be worked out later. Many of the faculty
also questioned whether the symposium should be mandatory on the faculty. The proposal presently specifies that all faculty would participate
during the course of several years. The consensus of many was that the best interests of the student may not
be served in forcing faculty to teach the symposium. “I see a danger in forcing the faculty into something they
don't want to do,” said Rhodes. Reaction among students to the proposal was generally favorable.

Staff

Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOR EARLE

News Editor:
TOM AINSWORTH

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Assistant Managing Editors:
BOB HOWELL
BRUCE MALOY
THOM NICOLL
MIKE TANNER

Assistant Features Editor:
JOHN CASSELS

Copy Editor:
BILL ELLETT

Photographers:
ROB PETERSON
JIM PORTER
ROB STRAND

Contributors this week:
Corser, Joe Duncan, Giduz, Betsy Alexander, Greg Dunn, Harriet Hodges, Jim Paulsen, Charlie Shepherd, Charlie Mark Connors, Bruce Wolff, Endy,
Alan Ford, Bill Slagle, Val Van Horn, and Bob Wetzel.

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
ROBERT TOUCHTON
GRAY WILSON

Contributing Editors:
TOM BRUCE
TODD EADES
RICHARD ROMEYN

Assistant Sports Editors:
DAVID MELTON
JIM SITTERSON
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKOM
PAUL MITCHELL
JOHN LEMMON

Assistant Business Managers:
CLIFF KIRK
RICHARD ROMEYN
RICH SMITH
PHIL STIKES

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
ROBERT GATES

Published weekly at Davidson, NC, by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
NC. Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, 28036. Yearly subscription rate $5.00.‘We've been at his
heels to produce something to find what he was aspiring to. “Now a decision is going to have to be
made in lots of terms, not only the size of the building and the cost of the building, but also
the probability of raising money for whatever we decide,” he continued. “We've got to decide among priorities in terms of
student needs and campus needs.” He added that decisions regarding the location and facilities in a new union would be
reached by this spring. Bob Edmunds, chairman of the SGA union-social life committee, said that the committee met with Smith
last Friday and talked about his basic proposals. According to Edmunds, what needs to be determined now is “what things
are absolutely necessary and what we really need to have in a new union. Whether Smith has proposed the optimum,
ideal union, I don’t know. He's attempted to put all the possibilities in front of people. These things we could
have, now what do we want? The Senate will now look at these proposals, try to pare down what is
in them, and discuss what needs to be in a new union,” Edmunds continued. “Personally, I think new dorms and
off-campus housing for married students should be priorities ahead of a new union.”

Smith’s Union Scheme Draws Mixed Reaction

Edmunds also related that “how they handle this is one of the major decisions on campus. The choice of the
location of a new union should be made with extreme care. The placement of a new union will affect the
growth of the entire campus. They should take time and not hurry their decision.” Gray Robinson, a sophomore who ran
for President of the student Union, did not like Smith's proposals. “He's proposing everything first and working down from there.
He should start with a base and work up. What he should consider is what the students basically need and
plan for something like that.” Robinson stressed that a union is “one central place to go and have fun. The
existing union doesn't fulfill the needs of the students because there is nothing there for the students to do. They
can plan for it but I can't realistically see a new union in the next five years. Therefore, something should
be done about the existing union.” As for the facilities offered at a union, Robinson said, “we definitely need a
bookstore, we have to have a cafeteria, and we need a place to show films and dance.” Mike Pappas, SGA
senator from the freshman class and member of the ad hoc committee studying Smith's recommendations, remarked that “the committee is
faced with the responsibility of coming up with feasible estimates of facilities that could be in a new union. Definite
proposals will be ready by mid-March.” Mitch Purvis, junior SGA senator, said of Smith's plans that “in going for as
much as he can, I hope it doesn't scare others concerned into not thinking about other priorities. The top priority
is student housing. I hope that in overshooting for a union, other academic facilities are not cut.”

Calendar Debate Continues In Senate

By TOM AINSWORTH News Editor

The debate over Davidson’s academic calendar is still a big issue as the current SGA administration comes to a close.
In a report in Tuesday night’s meeting on the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) by Doug Brown, it was disclosed that
members of the faculty are receptive to a revised calendar, although most of them have not seen the one proposed
by the SGA. However, John M. Bevan, vice president for academic affairs and chairman of the EPC, is, said Brown,
“sticking to his guns” on the calendar issue because he thinks there is “no educational reason to change it.” When
asked for his comment on the statements, Bevan charged that they were “completely erroneous” and added that he intended to
“stand by the decisions of the Executive Committee. “The Executive Committee is charged by the faculty for the purpose of
handling the calendar question,” said Bevan, “and the EPC only makes recommendations to it.” Members of the Executive Committee, which
will have the authority to keep or amend the present calendar of full terms after Christmas, include George L. Abernethy,
Bevan, Coral Nelson, J. Harris Proctor, Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Will H. Perry, Locke White Jr., and A. A. Wolf.
In a proposal by Blain Butner, the calendar issue will go to the students in the form of a referendum
to be voted on in next Tuesday's class senator elections. Also brought up in the meeting was the unanimously passed
proposal by Bo Phillips to bring the film “Reefer Madness” to the campus at a cost of $225 rental fee.
The Senate allocated the funds and plans to charge admission to cover only the cost of the expenditure. Finally, Senate
President Ralph Peeples asked for and received a $50 allocation to contribute to the fund for rebuilding the Hanoi Hospital
which was bombed over Christmas. The fund has been promoted by Ramsey Clark, ex-attorney general of the United States and
recent lecturer at the Davidson Corrections Symposium.
