Students Revolt Against New Calendar
By TOM BRUCE
Contributing Editor

After a seemingly endless Christmas vacation, student leaders returned to Davidson in a head-on clash with a proposed calendar for
next year's three terms. The release of the 1973-74 calendar last week was the outcome of deliberations by the Educational
Policy Committee (EPC) and the Faculty Executive Committee on the feasibility of a number of calendar styles. Both forums ultimately
approved a calendar proposed by John M. Bevan, Vice President for Academic Affairs, that designated the winter term to begin
after the Christmas break. The resulting 21-week span of almost unrelieved study was the chief source of complaint. Only five
class days were allotted as a spring break, and many students and faculty members felt that this unrelieved period of
work might prove fatiguing.

A study of the Bevan calendar conducted within the freshman class by freshman senator Mike Pappas elicited 150 responses, of
which 146 students reacted unfavorably to the Bevan calendar, while 4 students endorsed it. Although most of the freshmen criticized
the scheduling of the winter and spring terms, a number voiced other complaints. Classes the day after New Year's, a
June 2 final dismissal date, and four Saturday classes were prominent in the dissatisfaction.

The reasoning behind the Bevan calendar came to light later in the week, despite Bevan's absence from the campus. Foremost
was the belief held by some faculty members that a two-week break in the winter term at Christmas might be
unsound educationally. In years past, when the winter term was split, some professors noticed that material covered before the break
seemed remote and stale by the time of final exams in February. "My own inclination is to support anything that
doesn't have a split winter term," explained Dick Clay, student representative on the EPC. "I feel that it puts students
at a severe disadvantage in many courses, such as the introductory calculus sequence and certain lab courses."

Lab courses presented another related problem. Some biology courses maintain a supply of laboratory animals, such as rats and guinea
pigs, which have to be cared for during the term. When a three-week break interrupts the winter term, maintaining the
animals becomes a problem. "Our course in Genetics poses a special problem," explained David Grant, Assistant Professor of Biology. "Students
are breeding bacteria to observe long-term effects. If their work is interrupted, it can jeopardize the entire experiment."

A student senate sub-committee headed by Junior Bo Phillips and Sophomore Blain Butner has introduced a new calendar to counter
Bevan's calendar. As finally recommended by the student senate, this calendar will eliminate the long winter-spring period and will provide
an 11-day spring break. The senate's calendar, approved unanimously this week at the Senate meeting, designates that the winter term
start four weeks before Christmas and extend six weeks after Christmas. Fall classes would begin on September 5 and spring
classes would end on May 16.

There would be a one-week break between the fall and winter terms that would encompass the Thanksgiving holidays if this
calendar is adopted. In addition, there would be a two-week break before Christmas and classes would not resume until January
3, so that students would not have to rush back to school during the New Year's Day traffic. Two Saturday
classes would be scheduled for sometime during the fall term so that the fall term would end before the Thanksgiving
break. For the Senate's calendar to be adopted, the whole matter will have to be sent back to the EPC
and the Faculty Executive Committee.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
January 19, 1973

Record Number Seek Senate Presidency In Tuesday’s Hotly Contested Election
By THOM NICOLL
Asst. Managing Editor

Davidson students will choose from a record number of candidates for the SGA presidency Tuesday. The seven office seekers are
Doug Brown, John Banigan, Bill DuPont, John McCartney, Steve Morris, Bo Phillips, and Sam Upchurch. Candidates for the Office of
Vice-President of the SGA, which includes the presidency of the RHC, are Bob Corlew, Jim Goodloe, and Steve Smith. Running
for the editorship of THE DAVIDSONIAN is present managing editor.

Smith Announces Basic Plans For Future Davidson Union
By BRUCE CORSER
Staff Writer

C. Shaw Smith, Director of the College Union, issued this week basic proposals for a new college union building on
campus. These proposals call for a structure larger than Chambers in floor space; however, the report did not designate a
site for construction. The conceptualized union will supposedly be a center of activity, not only for the college, but also
for the community as well. Smith's scheme for the ground floor of the building includes a 2,700 sq. ft. Arts
and Crafts shop, and a 2,500sq. ft. movie theatre. A larger area for offices and organizations is also designated. This
space will hold THE Davidsonian, "Miscellany," the YMCA, and N.C. Fellows among other organizations. The Senate chambers alone are a
proposed 800 sq. ft. On the same floor, another area was devised for a 6000 sq. ft. "multi-use ballroom," including
a full stage and a main floor that will accommodate some 800 people. The student store, larger by some 2000
sq. ft., is also placed on this floor. The design has the upper floor housing, among other things, four meeting
rooms, five private dining rooms, two party rooms, four twin-bedded suites, a 900 sq. ft. dome room, WDAV, and a
wall aquarium. Smith's plan calls for a lower or basement floor set aside for a food service which will serve
half of a projected 1600 enrollment as well as faculty-staff. The total cafeteria is a projected 28,000 sq. ft. A
snack bar, five private dining rooms, rathskeller, a game area, a post office, and rooms for the employees are also
envisioned for the lower floor. An outdoor area will feature formal gardens, an outdoor food service, a terraced lounge, and
a drama and "presentation area." A figure of 102,000 was set as the total area in square feet. Smith called
the report proposals for study. "We've had to pull out of the air a lot of the square footages," he
added. He called the plan "adaptable" in that many things could be omitted if there was not enough money or
interest. Smith announced that College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. had been applying pressure on him to finish these proposals.
"What we need now is a second look in a hard-nosed way in order to mull over particular areas," he
said. "These proposals will be studied by designated members of the union board and by the SGA." Specifically, two committees,
an ad hoc committee composed mostly of freshmen, and a student government social life committee, will further investigate the proposals.
More definite plans will be ready by mid-March.

Referring to the union survey last fall, Smith related that the proposals correlated "in a general way" with the survey.
"The things that students knew, wanted, and that made sense rated high in the survey," he said. "I'm pushing hard
for things that students aren't aware of but that a union could offer." As for the realistic possibility of the
plans being approved, Smith stated, "No, I could never dream that this could be approved in totality. But if you
don't include those areas important to some people or to everyone, the chances of getting those areas are pretty slim.
I don’t want anybody to get discouraged in thinking that just because we can’t have everything proposed, that we'll get
nothing," he continued. "What we'll get is the residue." Smith emphasized, "If this is just a fun and games thing,
(See SMITH, Page 12)

Editor Alec Hoon. Joe Earle and Gray Robinson are competing for the presidency of the College Union. Candidates for WDAV
Station Manager are Tom Ioanes, Tim Patton, and as co-candidates, Robert Touchton and Scott Reed. Tom Tornee, candidate for the
presidency of the Social Council, is unopposed for the office. Also unopposed is Woody Connette, who is seeking the YMCA
presidency. The only candidate for editor of Quips & Cranks is freshman Jeff George. Another undisputed office is the editorship
of the Miscellany. Bob Bolick is the sole candidate for the office. Rick Levi is unopposed for the Wildcat Handbook
editorship. Undisputed YMCA positions will be filled by Tom Parks as vice-president, Steve Dodd as secretary, and Jim Porter as
treasurer. Bonnie Henesy and Tom Bernhardt are running for chairmanship of the Co-curricular Council. Seeking the position of Freshman Advisor
are Gus Succop and Nancy Stanger, Jerry Godbehere and Dave Bender, Roger Manly and Tom Jenkins, Mackie Horton, and Whit
Whitworth. Chris Allison, Jim Dorsett, and Robert VanderGrime are running for the office of Student Solicitor. Seeking the office of
Defense Advisor are J. Daniel Thorne and Bill Vaughan. Candidates for the two positions on the Review Board are Robert
E. Stopher and Bob Whaling, who will be unopposed. Rising seniors competing for three seats on the Hearing Committee are
Duncan Baker, Gary Bressler, Dave Curtiss, George Edwards, John Magee, Jim Paulson, and Frank Smith. Seeking the two junior seats
are Rick Deal, David Gleim, Jim Jernigan, Dubose Porter, Richard Romeyn, and Rich Smith. No candidates signed to run for
the sophomore place on the Hearing Committee. Tom Bernhardt is the only person who filed for one of the three
senior cheerleader positions. Keith Stanzel, Chip Jones, and Gus Succop will fill the three junior positions. Seeking the three sophomore
spots are Scott Lane, Neal Lenhoff, Bobby Mendenhall, Shaune Robertson, and Scott Tinnon.

(Staff photo by Goodman) Lights blaze over library construction site.
