Page Ten January 12, 1973 The Davidsonian

FBI Breaks Bookie Will’s IMAC Mob

According to IMAC Director Chip Stone, the largest scandal in sports since the baseball Black Sox Scandal has hit tiny Davidson College. At a press conference yesterday, Stone released a prepared statement claiming, “that one of the largest bookmaking operations on the east coast has been discovered in the Davidson intramural program.” Its proportions were staggering with several key college personnel involved. Early this morning, head man Dean Will Terry was indicted by a federal grand jury on charges ranging from corruption of minors to interstate gambling. Stone claimed that “since early September Terry's operations have been controlling every aspect of the IMAC program. A thorough housecleaning is definitely in order,” he stated.

Terry's indictment came after a signed confession two days ago by Jimmy “the Greek” Larranaga. The Greek admitted between tears that he and his 3 on 3 team, the Phighting Phags, had been shaving points on their way to the tourney championship. A first-round game involving a girls’ team, Sandy Herring, and a semi-final match with Wag’s Wagoners were mysteriously close and led FBI agent Ray Turner to question Larranaga. Turner claimed that “Larranaga hadn't asked me for money for pop all week, so I figured he was gett’n it somewhere else.” Further investigation led to the discovery that fixed games were commonplace in last fall's flickerball season. Larry Horowitz, an all-league performer at split end, told FBI agents that his team, the unbeaten Staten Island Ferries, had taken a dive in their last game.

Melody Recording

We are looking for a student to sell our 8-track tapes. We are respected throughout the country as producing a premium product. Have your own thriving business. We carry over 700 selections of all types of music: Soul, Pop, Oldies, Country & Western, Popular, Etc. If you are interested, call Melody Recordings Inc. (201) 575-9430. Ask for either Mr. Jonas or Mr. Reid.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:

Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer - North Carolina's nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. 26th year. Camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship plus SCUBA at Camp Sea Gull and horseback riding at Camp Seafarer and all usual camping activities. Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who are LOOKING FOR MORE than “just another summer job.” Openings for NURSES (RN), June 6 - August 17. We seek highly qualified (ability to instruct in one phase of camp's program), dedicated and enthusiastic staff members with exemplary character and offer in return good salaries, board and lodging, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Apply to Wyatt Tayler, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

“Pre-Mardi Gras Rock Festival, January 14 - February 19, featuring all of the Top Twenty Groups and many more. Just outside New Orleans. Send now for tickets. $28.00 each - $38.00 per couple. Sidney Manix Enterprises, 1026 Conti Street, New Orleans, Louisiana 70112. Hurry! Tickets Limited.”

REGAL NOTES

UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS FASTER WITH OUR NOTES

We are new and we're the biggest! Thousands of topics reviewed for...Quicker understanding. Our subjects include not only English, but Anthropology, Art, Black Studies, Ecology, Economics, Education, History, Law, Music, Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, Religion, Science, Sociology, and Urban Problems. Send $2 for your catalog of topics available. REGAL NOTES 3160 "O" Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20007 Telephone: 202-333-0201

Performances of the season, easily throwing away the championship. Horowitz's take in the affair amounted to 30 pieces of silver. Horowitz named Dean Terry and the coach of the SIFs, the infamous Captain America, as the key figures in the incident. Although Terry is now in custody, agents feel that Captain America has eluded them with the aid of his henchman Jimmy Low-Low Lowry. Lowry was seen last Friday boarding a plane bound for New Zealand accompanied by a six-foot six-inch Koala Bear resplendent in red, white, and blue attire. Sky Marshals claimed they searched the bear's luggage but found nothing out of the ordinary.

Not exactly on the IMAC scene but under investigation is the mysterious disappearance of freshman wonder Gerald Plotz.

Reportedly Plotz was to fall short in his task of eating 51 eggs so that Terry would make a killing. Plotz crossed up Terry by doing the job and soon after disappeared off the D.C. campus. Divers are searching Lake Norman and the Catawba River for remains of the missing freshman.

Another example of Terry's ruthlessness with those who did not explicitly follow his directives were the tragic cases of Mitch Purvis who suffered an Achilles tendon injury and Eppa Rixey whose shoulder was mysteriously dislocated. Even henchman Bob "Spaghetti" Mosketti felt the wrath of the brutal Terry. After failing to carry out a hit on club football head Carl Rizzo, for winning a game, Mosketti had both knees crushed in an inexplicable collision with a small Fiat. Neither the car nor the driver’s remains could be sufficiently identified.

An interesting sidelight that has shown up in the early investigations is the large amount of drug usage that corresponded with Terry's operations. In a surprise urine analysis test taken by agents after the flickerball championship game, PDT No. 2 had traces of amphetamines showing up while the SPE’s were tested to have an amazing 98.6 percent content (See IMAC, Page 11).

Bowling MOOR LANES Daytime Student Rates Snack Bar Billiard Tables Pin Ball Machines

HELP WANTED - MALE or FEMALE Campus sales representative for High-quality European Bicycles. Exclusive Factory Direct Program. Bike worth over $150, sells for $50. Final interviews will be held on Campus in January. Write for information and application to: GRASSHOPPER SPORTS, RD2, Box 747, Plattsburgh, N.Y. 12901.

North Carolina Fellows Invites Application From All New Students (Freshman & Transfer) Forms Available From: Dr. John D. Kelton Office of Dean of Students, or Any N.C. Fellow.

Return Completed Applications To Dr. Kelton, B-2 Chambers (Psychology) On Or Before MONDAY JANUARY 15, 1973.