Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
SEPTEMBER 21, 1973

Sky High Room Rents

On Tuesday morning at his “Any Questions” session with students, President Spencer mentioned the fact that rooms in the five
planned dormitories might run as high as nine hundred dollars per student. In all fairness to Spencer, we must say
that he was definitely not in favor of any cost differential in the room rent for various dorms, and stated
that he had a number of other options under consideration to ensure a parity of cost for the rooms.

The crux of the problem lies in the financing of the buildings. The college is probably going to have to
take out a loan to cover the initial construction costs. Hopefully, the loan could be repaid over a period of
years by the actual room rents. Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell has expressed some concern over
the dorm financing saying, “I’m scared because of the high interest rates, and the frozen HUD money. The dorms are
just going to have to pay for themselves, since the college cannot afford to use general endowment money for this
purpose.”

Since we are not financial experts, we do not feel qualified to discuss the means by which this problem may
be handled; but we do think that it is imperative that some solution whereby all room rents are the same
be established. It would be a giant step backward if the college were to institute a system of room segregation
on the basis of a student’s financial background. Such an action must be avoided at all costs. Spencer also indicated
that the college is now open to any suggestions on the matter. We strongly urge all students to register their
opposition to such a plan, and to respond with any positive ideas they have on the subject.

Governance

In this week's DAVIDSONIAN we have run the first in a series of articles on Governance. We have several reasons
for running this material, which to many here is of an extremely volatile nature. Governance should be the main front
in the battle of students for more significant representation in matters which are of concern to them. Yet, as it
stands today, most students are relatively ignorant as to what Governance is. So this series is to educate everyone as
to the nature and complexity of the issue.

However, beyond the education of the students, we hope this series will stimulate thinking on their part as to what
they want in the way of a governing system here. Out of this thought, we hope that students will make
their feelings known so that the decisions which are finally made at least partially reflect student wants. As Todd Eades
emphasized in his column this week, the community nature of this institution is being eroded, and it needs to be
restored. If students are given an important part in governance, this would be a good way to improve communications between
the students on one hand, and the faculty-administration on the other. So, to the students (and to the faculty, Administration,
and Trustees) we urge you to read this series carefully, and debate in your own mind the validity of the
points brought up.

Insanity

We would hazard a guess that very few students are presently aware of a debate going on in this country
- a controversy which vitally affects all of us. It concerns the approval or rejection by the U.S. Congress of
what for lack of a better name is called the Defense Budget. In 1972 this country spent approximately 74.4 billion
dollars on defense, by far and away the lion’s share of the budget. In his new program, despite the fact
that the Indochina conflict is virtually over (unless one believes there is more “secret” bombing going on), President Nixon has
proposed increasing defense spending to approximately 80 billion dollars.

Eighty billion is such a huge number as to be almost incomprehensible to the average citizen. And yet, the Nixon
Administration feels that we need to spend this kind of money to make sure that we are never a “second-rate”
power. Sound illogical? Like most everything else that now comes out of Washington? We now possess the first and second
strike capability to destroy China and Russia several times already, and yet we must continue to foster our military sophistication.
Then we wonder why the Russians, Chinese, and French continue to do the same! And we wonder why there still
exists a spiraling nuclear arms race as the Russians seek to develop MIRV’s. (Still we call “foul”: that violates the
provisions of the SALT treaty on the number of warheads they can have!)

Returning to the more mundane sphere of our own existence - what can we do except to rant and rave
to our friends or ignore the whole thing entirely as none of our business. Something can be done. Despite much
cynicism and belief to the contrary, the members of the Congress can be made responsible to the will of their
constituencies. So write your Congressman or Senator and tell him that you don’t like the idea of the government spending
eighty billion on defense. There is sentiment among many on Capitol Hill to parethis astronomical figure—if only by five billion.
(That is a start anyway.) Every letter protesting such policies will only serve to solidify Congressional opposition.

TODD EADES

Community Needs Student Authority

Advocacy and compromise are the spirits of democracy. As a mechanism of decision-making, democratic principles are espoused by nearly all,
and our own national experience leads us to its benefits. A community which allows its members responsibility for decisions vital
to their legitimate interests is more a true community. The question before us presently is: How best can the interests
of the college community be represented in and resolved by authority?

The Board of Trustees is of course the final authority, but powers are delegated by it to individuals and groups
within the community, according to their legitimate interests. The current evaluation of the extent of these interests will be more
affected by interpretations of the community’s past, visions of its future, and society beyond the community, than any arguments put
forth by the contesting parties. Yet I would like to explain the student position, and the realities of this position.

An argument could be made that every decision affecting the entire community is of legitimate interest to students. Certainly no
one can deny that students are members of the community, even though often considered second-class members. Students desire input to
decision-making: insurance that their perceptions of their interests (and who can better represent student interests than they themselves, in the
areas of their competency) will be considered by those in authority. Students desire authority only in affairs predominantly their own,
and this subordinate to the Board of Trustees’ final authority. In areas of community responsibility, or those shared by students
and other groups, students desire a voice in preparing and making recommendations to authority. Generally, students should play a greater
role in the community, and be accepted as essential members. Better communication and more personal contact are needed, as recognized
by the initiation of the Thursday morning coffee, Dr. Spencer's “Any Questions” and revived faculty visitation. Increased communication and participation
in making community policy recommendations need to be within this flow.

The college community is growing apart. Increased enrollment, the awkwardness of co-education, and more students living off-campus have contributed to
the loss of common ground. The community needs to be brought together once more, by the increased association of all
its members; an individual, not a communal task. Dealing further with the realities of this position, acceptance of students as
full citizens will not destroy the community, but influence it with new vitality and perspective, and build it stronger. The
social experience and education of an involved student body seems justification enough for bringing students further into the community. The
secrecy and suspicion rampant among us steals our innocence and wisdom, rending us into factions. Increased involvement in the community
by any member will not decrease the others, but fulfill the spirit of community. And what God-fearing man is so
certain that his position is Truth that he will not listen to other ideas? We need to argue less, to
listen more, and to compromise; an individual, not a communal task.

A special collection of British paintings on loan from the North Carolina Museum of Art in Raleigh will fill the
Dwelle Gallery at the Mint Museum of Art until September 25. The period collection of paintings is said to be
one of the more comprehensive of its kind in the region, and extends from the sixteenth to the nineteenth century.
In an attempt to relate these works to the cultural background of our colonial development, an “environmental exhibit” is planned.
A setting of vignette room re-creations of each particular period will provide a background calculated to bring the works to
life for the modern observer.

“The English Painting exhibition will survey painters from medieval to modern,” in the words of Curator Anne Lambert. Works featured
in the exhibit include portraiture by the Elizabethan Paul van Somer, Sir Peter Lely and Sir Godfrey Kneller in the
second half of the seventeenth century, and Sir Joshua Reynolds in the eighteenth. The nineteenth century is represented by the
landscapes of Turner and John Constable, and the phantasmagorical flights of the artist Fuseli. The most recent painter in the
exhibit is John Ruskin, writer, critic and champion of the Gothic revival.

The Festival in the Park at Freedom Park will continue until Sunday. Featured are Arts and Crafts exhibits, demonstrations and
free concerts. Hours are from 6 to 10 p.m. weekdays, and Saturdays and Sundays from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m.

“Reconstruction Period,” Juan Logan's exhibit of ten steel sculptures will continue on the decks and in the Garden at the
Mint Museum until Sunday. The works represent a return to nonfigurative art concerned with formal organization of plane expression of
volume in terms of modern industrial material, in this case, galvanized steel. Logan, who in his work strips ideas and
forms to their most primal elements, speaks of himself as “a man, an American man, an American artist, and a
Black American man-artist” in that order. His work does not follow the pattern of didactic black art with its tone
of social protest, nor does it reflect the nostalgia of neo-Africanism. It is part of the mainstream of American art.
