Committee Offers Plan 222: For Faculty Evaluation

By MARK DEATON
Asst. Managing Editor

The Faculty Committee on Professional Affairs will present their “Working Document on Policy and Procedure for Evaluation of Faculty Performance” at the formal faculty meeting on May 29, according to Professor Max W. Polley, chairman of the committee.

“Our report deals with methods of evaluating faculty performance including procedures for initial appointment, reappointment, promotions, nonrenewal, tenure procedures, and annual salary recommendations,” said Polley. By acting on this document, the faculty will express its will in terms of the procedures by which they wish faculty to be evaluated. This decision will then go to the trustees, who will determine whether this document shall be made official college policy.

Rather prominent in the evaluation process as proposed by the Professional Affairs Committee is the department chairman, who, with the vice president for academic affairs, will make recommendations to the Board of Trustees for promotions and tenure considerations. Department chairmen would evaluate members of their department annually for salary increments and at times when tenure or promotion for that member is being considered.

Criteria for evaluations include a personal interview, discussion of courses taught, tests, course syllabi, grade distribution, research, publication, professional meetings attended, papers presented at professional meetings, library holding increases, study of graduate students who have studied under said professor, and student evaluation. The department chairmen and the vice president would make a joint recommendation to the president, which will ordinarily be sent to the trustees.

“This is the second proposal which we have submitted to the faculty,” said Polley. “We've been working for a whole year on this.” The first report suggested that a faculty committee be set up to evaluate each faculty member. However, there was little support for such a plan from the faculty. “I think there's some opposition to this first proposal based on the fact that professors don't want to sit in judgment of their colleagues. Most members of the faculty seem to think that evaluation should be left to the administration,” he said.

“The question remains, how much administrative work do you want the faculty to do, along with how well can administration evaluate the faculty,” Polley explained. “We’re trying to bring the two together enough by getting department chairmen to seek more responsibility than ever before in the past,” he said.

Professor Earl MacCormac, a member of the Professional Affairs Committee, prefers the first plan submitted by the committee.

EXAMINATION INSTRUCTIONS

The college calendar (as amended by the Executive Committee) calls for exams to be taken May 26, 28, 29, 30, 31. Not all professors use the self-scheduled procedures described here, so each student should determine definitely the exam arrangements for each course. If self-scheduled procedures are used, then the following instructions apply.

Go to the Student Store in Belk Hall and purchase an exam envelope for each of your courses using self-scheduled exams. Fill in the appropriate identification information on both the yellow and red cards and also on the top section of the envelope. Give the envelope with both cards still attached to your professor between 8:00 a.m., May 18, and 5:00 p.m., May 22.

Each examination envelope you turn in will be available to you during each morning and afternoon session on May 26, 28, 29, 30, 31. You do not need to specify in advance when you will write a particular exam. Go to Chambers Banquet Hall between 8:40 and 9:15 for morning sessions and 1:40 and 2:15 for afternoon sessions and ask for the envelope containing the exam you want to take at that time. The envelopes will be arranged alphabetically by the student's name. The yellow card will be detached and retained by the examination staff. Go to any classroom in Chambers Building and write the exam. The envelope with the red card still attached and containing the questions and your answers may be returned to the examination center as early as 9:45 for the morning and 2:45 for the afternoon. The yellow card, now receipted by the examination center, will be given to the student. Hold that card until a grade for the course is received. In case of any irregularity, it is the student's evidence that he turned in the exam envelope containing exam materials.

“When the self-scheduled plan was adopted, it was realized that it would be an additional strain on the Honor Code, but it was also felt that the student commitment would be adequate to preserve that fine Honor tradition. Now that the novelty of self-scheduled exams has worn off, there is a continuing need for each student to renew his commitment to the Honor Code,” said Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. Signing the Honor Pledge on the exam envelope after the exam is another link in the chain of strength for the Honor Code.

“I think it’s short-sighted to think that faculty have no part in evaluation,” MacCormac said. “However, I'm in favor of our present document as a pragmatic solution. If that’s what the faculty wants, I'll support it. There are some 18 department chairmen here at Davidson, many of those people heading three or four-man departments,” MacCormac said. “With the personal ties within departments, it's just that much harder to secure an evaluation with constructive criticism. I'd prefer to see a committee of faculty do the evaluations.”

Professor J. Nick Burnett, also a member...of the Professional Affairs Committee is in favor of the current proposal. "I'm in favor of the plan we presently have before us where the major emphasis is on the academic vice president and the department chairman to whatever degree the vice president delegates responsibility to him," said Burnett.

May 18, 1973 Page Three (Staff Photo by Jernigan)

RETIRING AFTER 34 YEARS
Professor of Biology Elmer Brown is retiring at the conclusion of spring term. A graduate of Davidson College, Brown received his Ph.D. in 1949 from Cornell University. Known as E. P. Brown by students, he has played an active role at Davidson since 1939.

Trustees Hire New Professors Approve Other Appointments
By CHARLES SHEPHERD
Asst. Managing Editor

The Board of Trustees recently approved several faculty and staff revisions for the coming year. When students arrive at Davidson next Fall, they will find that quite a few changes in faculty and staff will have taken place. These revisions include the appointments of three new professors.

Professor Norman Koller will join the Sociology department. The 31-year-old professor is presently working on his doctorate at the University of Indiana. He earned his B.S. in 1967 and his M.A. in 1969 in sociology from Brigham Young University. Koller has been an associate instructor from 1969-1972 at the University of Indiana and in the past year has been a research assistant there. Koller is originally from Utah and is married. He and his wife have one child. Koller’s specialties are in systems analysis, stratification, occupations, social change, collective behavior, and research methods.

Professor Joseph Retzer is completing his Ph.D. dissertation in political science at Yale University. He spent a year in South Vietnam and in Hong Kong while in the army. Retzer’s interest in the Vietnam Veteran was a springboard for his dissertation. Retzer has been a Woodrow Wilson Fellow and a Yale Fellow. He earned his B.A. magna cum laude from Vanderbilt in 1965 and an M.A. from Yale in 1967. The 30-year-old professor is married and has one child. He spent a year as an instructor at Vorkees University where he worked with the 13 College Curriculum Development Program. This program was initiated to develop a common-based curriculum for these institutions.

Professor Lauren Yoder will join the French department. He was a 1962 graduate of William and Mary. He earned his M.A. from the University of Virginia and is presently completing his doctoral work at the University of Iowa. Yoder, who is 30, is a Fulbright Fellow. Yoder has spent four years in Belgium, Zaire, and Paris. He is a specialist in 18th-century French literature and African Literature of French Expression. Yoder has also traveled extensively in Germany, Austria, Italy, and Spain.

In the ROTC department, several changes are also taking place. Colonel Virgil Foster is retiring from the service and will be replaced by Colonel William C. Simpson, a graduate of West Point. Simpson is originally from South Carolina and was transferred from army staff school in Carlisle, Penn. Major Thomas Dixon and Captain Ted Severn are being transferred by the army. They will be replaced by Major Clarence Grant and Captain William De Vaughn, respectively.

Mrs. R. H. Knight is replacing Miss Jane Williams as documents librarian next fall, and coach Ron Graham, assistant football coach, will be replaced by coach John Wade, a graduate of North Carolina State University.

Professor Robert Avinger is taking a one-year leave of absence from Davidson. He will be working for the Federal Trade Commission in the Bureau of Economics. The position is a result of a Brookings Institute Economic Fellowship. Avinger will attend conferences, seminars, etc. on economics in conjunction with Brookings Institute. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan commented that the program will provide an excellent opportunity for a “young man getting a better feel of economics.”

Professor of Biology Elmer Brown, who has been with Davidson for 34 years, will be retiring at the end of this year. Professor of Classics Mark Davies has resigned to take a position at Rutgers University in New Jersey. He will be directing a major research undertaking in archeology which will be coordinated with other archeologists' work around the world. “For a young professor in his field, this is a tremendous opportunity,” said Bevan. “It's a tribute to him, and through it Davidson is complimented."

Leland Park will continue his leave of absence to pursue further graduate studies in library science at Florida State University. Professors Paul Fisher and William Jackson will not be teaching at Davidson next year. “This is because of a cutback in administration staff,” commented Bevan.

Several faculty members are going on sabbaticals next year. Holland will probably be living in Tai-Chung, Taiwan where he will teach and study at Tung Hai University. Professor of Mathematics R. Bruce Jackson will be attending Florida State University next year. He will be studying statistics and computers with a view toward developing a two-term computer and statistics course at Davidson. Other professors going on sabbaticals for varying lengths of time are Professors Joseph Embry, H. Alden Bryan, Ernest Patterson, and Erick Wruck.

PHOTOGRAPHERS
All photographers who have submitted pictures that have appeared in THE DAVIDSONIAN this term will be paid for them if they contact Whit sometime this week.