Page Ten February 9, 1973 The Davidsonian

A League Report: Indians Stay On Top With Soul Patrol Win

In keeping with this year's format, the IMAC basketball coverage this week goes to the ballboys of League A.

This week's action was highlighted by several big games in Division I.

The Cleveland Indians moved their record to a nice 7-0 mark as they gunned down the Soul Patrol Monday, 41-44,
in an unexpectedly tight battle.

Then, in a big match on Wednesday, the Tribe nipped PGD #1 57-56 in the best contest of the year.
The Gamms, led by Marty Williamson with 32 points, built a five-point lead with a minute to play after trailing
by as much as nine points in the first half.

But the boys from Cleveland, led by Mark Rodgman and Dennis Cholak, didn't choke as Cholak hit a 15-foot jumper
with 30 seconds left to play. The Gamms played for the last shot but missed a long jumper with three
seconds left.

The Gamms’ record dropped to 5-2 since they had lost earlier to another league power, Emanon #1.

Emanon is tied with Fanny and Mabel #1 in second place, both with 5-1 records.

After earlier defeating PGD #3 63-35, the nameless eating house pummeled PDT #3, 63-35, led by Frank Folger and Rorry
Ruddell.

F&M #1 slid into the tourney picture as they have recovered from an early one-point loss to PGD #1 to
win their last four games.

Last week they dumped the KA's 59-28 in their march to the sea. Then they followed it up with a
convincing triumph over the Crankateers, 85-71, with Tom McKenzie hitting 28 points. Eddie Willingham led the losers with 31.

F&M’s 5-1 slate put them only one game back of the Tribe.

PGD #1 still supports one of the best teams in the league despite losing two close games this week. Sandwiched
between the two losses was a victory over the now famous WI-A Wimps. The Wimps, despite a 28-point performance from
floor leader John Cardwell, fell hard in a 75-50 thrashing by the Gamms. Chris Young led the balanced attack for
the winners with 18 points.

In Division II the look got looser. The Pikas are sporting a 6-0 slate now. In a big contest early
this week, the SPE’s fell from the unbeaten ranks as the Pikas controlled a slow-moving game to win by six,
42-36.

Mike Whalen tossed in 13 and Eric ‘the Big E’ Scharling 10 more for the unbeaten Pikas. John Simms led
the losers with 11 markers.

The Pikas obviously liked what they saw when they played Loo Kat Mee in their next contest. Final: 73-38. Randy
Wagner slid in 12 points for the winners while Charley Dorrett canned 18 for the losers.

PDT #1 closed the week at 5-0. In their last game, they walloped freshmen-oriented C-2, 73-30.

Dan Henderson popped in 20 points to lead the Delts.

In second at 5-1 are the SPE’s. Led by John Simms, the SPE’s picked up a tremendous forfeit win over
Wizardry, who simply decided that discretion was the better part of valor.

The Old Men are still breathing adequately as they check in at 5-1. Last week they were able to work
around Loo Kat Mee 51-43 before totally ripping PAX, 69-48.

The oldest of the older, Chip Stone and Howard Arbuckle led the way for the “Golden Oldies” with 29 and
28 points in two games.

C.A. & Young Buck would like to end this week's column with a serious philosophical question.

If there are women participants on both teams in an intramural game, which team “goes skins”?

Send replies to C.A. & Buck, Box 1993, Davidson (where else?) N.C.

The Red Hanger and UCK’s Elephant Barn 115 North Main St. (Staff by Goodman) ABSOLUTELY SMASHIN

IMAC scramble for the ball in league play.

Davidson, N.C.
