Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR MARCH 8, 1973

Amnesty

Amnesty? What exactly does it mean? For many Americans, it conjures up the treasonous thought that those who fled their
country in a time of crisis, when it needed them, will be allowed to return home and be accepted again
as true Americans. Though on the surface the maze of moral questions involved seems to be most important, beneath this,
the present stand of the Nixon Administration on amnesty appears to indicate more significant, covert, and grim realities of American
thinking after Vietnam.

Why not give the conscientious objector amnesty? After all, we seem willing to spend millions of dollars to rebuild North
Vietnam, once considered our mortal foe. Why not then accept the moral decisions of our own sons? For certainly they
are not the enemy. However, if we let young men run from the service now, in the eyes of many,
a dangerous precedent has been set. What will prevent them from doing it again in the future? But does this
reference to the “future” mean that someday soon we will be involved in another Vietnam? No one will ever say
this, but one’s stand on the amnesty question undoubtedly seems to betray one's expectations.

The Nixon Administration has stated to a relieved America that it intends to be much more discriminating in the future
in terms of committing American men and arms to fight in skirmishes far from our shores. The move to an
all-volunteer army indirectly fortifies this. If the army is all-volunteer, the President will have to be careful in how it
is used, or no one will enlist. So, for all intents and purposes, the fate of the fugitive is irrelevant
to the American military of the future. The fugitive is an outcropping of the draft, supposedly a thing of the
past. Paradoxically, however, the government insists that the fugitive question is still pertinent to the military. What does this mean?
At the very best, it reflects only a personal bias of the President, but his vehement stand tends to imply
grander stakes. If he believed wholeheartedly in prudent future military operations, amnesty would be nothing more than a means of
healing. But, the Nixon administration demands justice. No more wars? Perhaps; but if the intellectual complexion of America and its
government can augur the future, don't count on it.

Third Class Mail

The problem of the financial stability of Davidson College has become of utmost concern to many people, from administrators to
faculty to students. To remedy this, the Administration, particularly those under Mr. Cornell's command, claim that they are doing everything
possible to alleviate the crisis. Cuts have been made in many departments to keep the budget in the black. Yet
the college continues to do little things that seem to us quite needless, which add to the financial strain.

Take, for instance, a letter that all students received dated February 27, 1973, from Cornell regarding fee increases for next
year. Those letters were sent by first-class mail at the approximate cost of $80. Yet these letters did not travel
more than a half-mile, the distance from Chambers Building to the U.S. Post Office in Davidson. This seems an absurdity
to us, when these same letters could have been sent third-class mail for about a fourth of the cost. It
might mean that we receive the letter a day later, but with regard to this question, another day would not
have mattered.

Taken by itself, this might seem like a drop in the bucket as compared with this year's budget of some
six million dollars. However, when one takes into consideration all the mail that the college sends to students, this could
turn out to be a pretty significant sum of money. Savings in this area could conceivably run into thousands of
dollars if the college would limit the mail they sent to essential items, sent third-class.

MILES WARD

Legendary Parkhill Ensnared In Rituals Of Big-Time Sports

Reers is an elite restaurant up two blocks from Jitdin's on the corner, and on the night you see it,
Ric has only ten tables there, quiet and quaint ones, not so very well known. You see, Ric is in
Charlottesville where Jefferson and Poe and many others, of course, went and now bow down to the young hero.

In July late, I was led by the nose under one Carla to Ric's. I had figured by now she
was along for the meal and was ready to make a getaway. Then in the doorway, I saw my old
friend from class. She was called D. and came over to sit until dinner. Her boyfriend came along and we
had a nice foursome except I wished it was a threesome.

“Miles,” she says, “this is Barry Parkhill.” I suppose somewhere in the gap that followed, my name was given away
with Carla's while I sat looking. But I don’t remember. Barry is no less a legend in Virginia than Lee
or Jackson or Richbrau beer, but Jesus, here he was. Allport called him the best guard in the nation and
he was most valuable in the ACC. I mean a basketball player, the first and only my state had ever
had.

“How do. Yes, I'm from Pennsylvania. Like it here very much, thanks. Davidson, huh, that's in the Southern Conference, isn't
it? No, I don't know about this season. Lots of tough schedules. I didn't make the Olympic team, you know.”
He'd been on radio. On T.V. Now here and real, he told me about it as the superstar of the
university. He lived in a big house somewhere.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

He had a summer job which paid about a thousand a month. He wanted to go to Penn State, but
they hadn't accepted him. No, he wasn't looking forward to the season. Yes, he hoped he did well. Barry hadn't
heard much about Davidson or Charlotte and knew North Carolina only as the difference between culture and agriculture—20 miles from
Chapel Hill to N.C. State. "Yeah, I don’t know about the pros, though. They're pretty tough and I'm not that
quick and I don’t really know. I really want to get out. Not do so much, just get out for
a while. I just want away from here."

"Sure man. Check you out in Davidson sometime. The same up here. Come up when we play Maryland. Real fireworks.
Just as a friend." Rock shipped a dime into his jukebox. He stood fat and smiling at the B.P. as
the anthem came on. It was a song about Barry and Virginia basketball. Rick laughed, beaming, pointing, and everyone looked
over at Barry's table. Barry winced, forced his eyes down into a checkered tabletop. Just as he said it would,
an orange basketball rim descended over his head. Constricted and choked him for a long while, his arms and legs
caught in the net. Just a cotton net made by basketball. Yet constantly restrung and tightened by Wahoos also caught,
but by their first orgasmic fantasies in the rituals of big-time sports.

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Staff Writer

"J.B.," Archibald MacLeish’s modern adaptation of the Job theme, will be presented in an evening performance at the Rowe Fine
Arts Building on the UNCC campus, on March 15, at 8:15 p.m. The general public is invited and admission is
$1.

"The Two of Us" will be shown on March 11 at 8 p.m. in the Golden Circle Theatre of the
Mint Museum of Art. This film is a subtitled version of the showing Jan. 7. Admission is $1.50.

"The Fantasticks," the long-running Broadway smash hit musical comedy, is now playing at the Pineville Dinner Theatre. The play, with
music by Harvey Schmidt and lyrics by Tom Jones, will continue until March 18. Tickets are from $7 to $10.

"A Sense of Wonder" continues at Kelly Planetarium and will run until March 18. The show, combining music, poetry, and
special effects all to a background on the stars, leaves the traditional planetarium format far behind. Music includes the Beatles,
Todd Rundgren, and The Moody Blues, while poetry is by Robert Frost and John Masefield. Shows are Saturdays at 3:30
p.m. and Sundays at 2:30 p.m. at the Charlotte Nature Museum.

Humanities Program Blasted, Salaries Reflect Oversupply

To the Editor:

Each year Davidson College imprisons about 100 of its future freshmen. The plot begins during the summer. Among the many
letters, catalogues, and pamphlets that each prospective student receives, he will discover a letter concerning the Humanities program. It should
be labeled "Handle With Care," because it is quite dangerous. Described in euphemistic terms, Davidson Humanities sounds like the "in"
course to take. Unfortunately, many students fall for this trick. Only after they are enrolled do they begin to find
out some of the facts.

The letter failed to state explicitly that each student must complete both years in order to receive any credit at
all. This is hard to fathom since a semester of Humanities often covers a historical period similar to that of
other history courses offered at Davidson. Often the student fails to realize the blow Humanities will give to his Grade
Point Average. When he decides to apply for one of the many programs which require certain grades, he finds that
the comparative difficulty of Humanities is not taken into consideration.

But Humanities is most destructive to the student who comes to Davidson, hates it, and wants to transfer. And there
are some students here that are not satisfied with a Davidson education. He is actually imprisoned at Davidson for another
year by the fact that his first-year credits will not transfer. If he decides to go on the exchange program
for a year or a semester, he still must come back to Davidson and complete Humanities his junior year.

Don't misunderstand my meaning. I think Humanities is a fine program for those who want to go through with it.
It satisfies area requirements, and it gives a good sampling of literature of all the major authors in history; however,
I think that incoming freshmen should know exactly what they are getting into. Interviews with present Humanities students would be
helpful. Only then could they weigh the good and bad aspects of the program and decide if it is the
direction they want to take. Also, for those students who have already been rammed into Humanities, there should be a
route to take for an honorable discharge.

Ed Bowen '76
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I found the recent article on faculty salaries rather amusing. Considering the fact that our Economics Department abounds with "Pricemaniacs"
(one notable exception, of course), it would seem only proper that the rest of the faculty should have been instructed
in the fallacies of their arguments. Anyone who respects the efficiency of free enterprise and who can handle basic demand-supply
analysis should realize that in the face of an oversupply of professors in the market, a falling price for professorial
services must result. But alas, neither theory nor consistency is appreciated in "the real world." One can only infer that
even readers of Milton Friedman are wont to enjoy the evils they preach against and in the confusion become perpetrators
of monopoly power. Shame!

Joni Wonneth Long '73
Davidson College
