Missing Library Books Cause Concern
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Contributing Editor

The problem of missing books is nothing particularly new. From 1967 to 1971, an average of 250 were lost each year. However, the inventory conducted by the library staff last June shows a record 360 volumes were lost during the 1971-72 academic year. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library, now terms the problem "extremely serious," and said that measures aimed at reducing the loss must be considered.

At the present time, the only action which has been taken is the publication of a list of missing books. Davidson said, however, that before action is taken he would want to present the problem to the students. "The only way an open shelf library can work is if the students really want it to work." He added that the open stack system has worked for a great many years, and that he sees no reason why students cannot continue to make it function.

Many solutions to the problem have been suggested. One possibility would involve placing a turnstile in the entrance way. The turnstile would be manned by an attendant who would ensure that all books leaving the library had been checked out. Such systems are in use at university and city libraries across the country, but Davidson said that he would not want to see such a system installed here because it would be an insult to the student body. "The open stack system sets Davidson apart from other schools," Davidson said. He added, however, that if the loss of books continues at its present rate, turnstiles may be necessary.

It is doubtful that any such measures would be taken in the present library. The nature of the building provides ample opportunities for one to beat a closed stack or turnstile system. However, the new library is designed to be readily adaptable for such security measures. For instance, it will not be possible to open the windows in the new library, thus making it virtually impossible for anyone to drop a book to the ground.

A second reason for not installing turnstiles at the present time is a financial one. "It would cost less to replace the missing books than to put in a turnstile and pay someone to manage it," said Davidson. However, many books such as bound volumes of periodicals cannot be replaced at any price, according to Davidson.

There is substantial evidence that many more books are illegally removed each year from the library than are indicated in the yearly inventory. Apparently, students remove many of these volumes without checking them out and return them to the shelves before the year is out.

Vince Rabil, a member of the (See MISSING, Page 12)

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
Davidsonian February 2, 1973

Governance, Calendar Surface As Major Issues In Hard-Fought Senate

In senatorial elections this week, Miles Ward, Bob Cunningham, and Mitch Purvis were elected from the rising senior class; Vince Rabil, Blain Butner, and Rick Damewood from the rising junior class; and Steve Bell, John Guthrie, and Duncan Moore from the rising sophomore class.

In the Senior class run-off elections, Miles Ward was elected class president in addition to serving on the SGA this coming year. Ward's major interest is seeing the Davidson freshman get the most out of his first year. "The SGA, through the Residence Hall Council (RHC), has a tremendous amount of ability to promote freshman parties and activities," Ward commented, "and the major emphasis in this direction should come through freshman senators." Also along the lines of social life activities, Ward hopes to "work with the Union from my SGA position" and expresses a desire to be appointed to the Committee on the Union to facilitate this interest. "I am just ready to do some work," Ward summarized.

Budget Committee Anticipates Increase In Cost Of Tuition
By BRUCE CORSER
Staff Writer

C. David Cornell, vice president of finance and development, stated at the open meeting of the Budget, Building and Grounds Committee Monday that tuition will increase next year "in the neighborhood of $200 to $300." He pointed out, though, that the rate of increase of tuition, 2.85 percent last year, was decreasing. President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. attributed the hike in cost to inflation and said he suspected "the same kind of trend in all colleges." The point was mentioned that this increase was one reason why more students needed financial aid this year than ever before.

Cornell maintained that the avowed purpose of Monday's meeting was to find out "where you (the audience) feel the emphasis on priorities should be placed." At one point in the meeting, committee member and Associate Professor of Economics Robert Avinger, asserted that most people "didn't have enough information to state priorities." He noted that the trustees will have the "final say" over the budget. One of the proposals suggested at the meeting was a request by David Kaylor, associate professorof Religion, stating that he was "disturbed" by the rate increase of faculty salaries as compared with the rise in tuition. He related that in the 1966-67 period, the amount of money from tuition was $63,000 less than the total of all faculty salaries. In the period of 1970-71, tuition collected exceeded the total sum paid to the faculty by about $421,000. During the 1971-72 school year, tuition exceeded faculty pay by $578,000. "Faculty salaries are not keeping pace with inflation. We have not been adding the faculty we need to carry on our standard of education," said Kaylor. Brown Patterson, professor of History, said that compared with the 1966 budget, the present faculty salaries amounted to 114 percent. He added that this was about the lowest figure in this year's budget. Referring to one national rating, he explained that Davidson's salaries were about the highest in comparison with other colleges of the same size. Yet he pointed out that Davidson was also competing with small and large universities for qualified faculty members and called for salary increases accordingly. Patterson called salaries for instructors "out of line with other increases."

Another important priority discussed at the meeting was the need for increased revenue directed toward library facilities. Malcolm Lester, professor of History, stated that although this year's total expenditure for the library was upped some four percent, the cost of books is rising 15 percent per year. A sum of $255,000 was allotted for the library this year over $247,000 for the past academic year. This includes $88,000 for books, a $1,000 increase over last year. However, Lester explained that 360 books were lost at a net value of $3,360. Lester noted that he was "quite aware that many areas, especially government and science, were inadequate." This led him to call the four percent increase a "pitiful increment." He further stated that he would like to make "as strong a case as possible for a 15 percent increase" in next year’s budget.

Housing facilities were discussed briefly in the meeting although they do not fall within the realm of the operating budget. Cornell said that he had had a contractor express an interest in installing 72 living units on North Main Street. Cornell said that even though he responded favorably to the idea, he had heard no response. In any case, "200 additional units will be ready by the fall of 1974," he said. A need was also expressed for housing for student dates. The idea of a hostel was mentioned by one student. A priority for a coin-operated laundry system was expressed by Steve Smith. Cornell took note of the proposal but replied that the college could not "cut off the people involved" in the laundry, adding that the college had a responsibility for them. Cornell related that the administration was still looking for someone to put up "a high-quality motel" on the site set aside for the purpose. He projected that someone would be found by 1974-75, the date of the completion of I-77.

Fellow Senator Mitch Purvis terms the academic calendar "the number one issue" to be improved upon. "I am also concerned with security around Davidson, even such little things as the style of lighting," Purvis stated. Purvis thinks that the housing situation is also in need of evaluation. "We have to make sure that married students have adequate facilities," he said. Ward and Purvis will be joined by Bob Cunningham to complete the Senior class representation. Cunningham, who served as SGA vice president this past year, agrees with Purvis about the calendar being the "most important" issue. "I'm in favor of splitting the Winter term the way the SGA recommended. We've got to draw some conclusions through, because if we wait too long, it'll be too late," Cunningham said. "I think there should be student representation on the Budget, Buildings and Grounds Committee (BBG), but this will take a long time to do," he said.

Asked what he thought was the biggest problem facing the Elections Senate in the upcoming year, Rabil replied, "The governance situation is the biggest thing. We've got to get the governance committee to take some kind of action." Responding to a query on the Bevan calendar, Rabil said, "I think that unless the students take some kind of drastic action in the very near future that we're stuck with it." Returning Senator Butner expressed similar feelings about the governance issue. "This calendar issue is a good example," said Butner, "that students have little or no influence to get policy changed." In his platform statement, Butner emphasized the calendar, beer in the Union, increased attention to coeducation, and a night-time exam period.

Winning on a low-key campaign which consisted of two posters and some informal chats was Rick Damewood. "I didn't see a need to campaign a lot," said Damewood, "since I didn't really clash with anyone else on the issues." (See ELECTIONS, Page 12)

(Staff photo by Strand) ELECTION DAY Student throng to cast their votes.