Page Two April 6, 1973 By CHARLIE SHEPHERD Asst. Managing Editor

For the past three days, the English and Drama departments and the Honors College have jointly sponsored a Scandinavian Festival
at Davidson. A wide variety of films, lectures, and readings offer students a great chance to explore Scandinavian literature and
drama. Rolf Fjelde and Richard Vowles were featured speakers during the week. Fjelde teaches English and Drama at Pratt Institute.
Vowles, a Davidson graduate, is chairman of the Department of Comparative Literature: Department of Scandinavian at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Fjelde, a well-known authority on Henrik Ibsen, is also a playwright. Both he and Vowles are critics of Scandinavian literature,
drama, and films.

(Staff Photo by Powers)

WOODY AND FRIENDS The newly renovated YMCA headquarters is ready for use.

Scandinavian Festival Deals With Nature Literature, Drama

The festival began Tuesday evening when the film version of Nobel Prize winner Knut Hamsun’s novel “Hunger” was shown in
Love Auditorium. Afterward, Fjelde discussed the film which dealt with a few months from the life of one starving individual.
On Wednesday, Vowles delivered a lecture entitled “Scandinavia's Divided Self: Our Literary Heritage from Strindberg to Ingmar Bergman” at the
Convocation at Queen's College. Wednesday afternoon, Ibsen's sensitive play “The Wild Duck” was the subject of a lecture and discussion
led by Fjelde in Perkins Auditorium. In the evening “Shame” was shown in Love Auditorium. Directed by Ingmar Bergman, this
film is a scathing commentary on war. A discussion followed the movie. Yesterday marked the final day of the Scandinavian
Festival. In the afternoon, Vowles lectured and discussed Strindberg’s use of Beethoven's music in his plays. Later, in the evening
in Hodson Hall, Vowles presented a slide-lecture about Strindberg’s years in Paris. Also, students from the Drama department presented an
interpretive reading from portions of “The Emigrants” by Vilhelm Moberg.

Renovated Depot Shown To Public In YMCA Opening By BILL LLOYD Staff Writer

The YMCA officially opened its recently converted depot with an open house last Wednesday afternoon. With the completion of the
depot, the Davidson YMCA hopes to become a more significant part of the community, according to YMCA President Woody Connette.
Besides housing the YMCA offices, the depot is now available as a meeting place for members of both the college
and the community. Total cost of renovating the old Southern Railway depot was around $12,500. The wooden frame building has
been painted red, and the interior has been thoroughly remodeled.

Jim McGee hopes to revitalize the YMCA STEP Tutoring program by instituting closer communication with the tutors. McGee hopes that
through the use of the new depot, in addition to the extended use of the gymnasium pool, the YMCA can
create greater interest in the STEP program for both students and members of the community. Future plans for the YMCA
include the possibility of a religious life organization under the direction of Freshman Steve Brant. Connette sees the main purpose
of the Davidson YMCA as providing for the students of the college an opportunity to extend themselves beyond the Davidson
campus. He hopes that through the various projects of the YMCA, students can become a more important part of the
community.

“I think what the depot symbolizes more than anything else is the close relationship between Davidson College and the community,”
added outgoing YMCA President Larry Dunn. “Students, administration, and faculty are all working with the community as it seeks to
solve its normal and peculiar problems,” Dunn continued.

The YMCA raised most of its renovation funds from students, the town of Davidson, and other local sources, but is
still seeking additional donations. The YMCA plans to present a cartoon showing for children of the community at 9 a.m.
Saturday mornings. The depot will also be open from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. on weekdays.

SGA Resolution To Regulate Allocations For Public Events By HARRIET HODGES News Editor

A resolution requesting that all applications to the student Senate for money to fund public eventsbe made at least three
weeks in advance was passed by the Senate this week. The purpose of the resolution, or the agenda for the
next Senate meeting, according to the amendment. The Senate also discussed an amendment which would allow members of the rising
junior or senior classes to run for SGA president and vice president. However, they took no action chosen. “They are
scheduled to be ready in September, 1973,” he reported. Senator Gary Stewart reported on his meeting with Ron Scott of
the Slater Food Service. Stewart and senators Steve Bell and John Guthrie plan to make an investigation of the food
services. “The main purpose of the... proposed by John Guthrie, is to... this meeting was to get some information before
we started.”

Managing Editors:
MIKE TANNER
MARY HOBBIE

Sports Editors:
HUGH MOORE
JIM SITTERSON
JIM PAULSEN
GORDON WIDENHOUSE
RICHARD ROMEYN

Assistant Managing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
PAUL MITCHELL
CHARLIE SHEPHERD

Technical Assistant:
BILL ELLETT

Assistant Features Editor:
VAL VAN HORN

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKCOM
JOHN LEMMON

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Manager:
RICH SMITH

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
TOM BRUCE
JOR EARLE

Assistant Business Managers:
CLIFF KIRK
MIKE RAMSEY

Reporting from the Senate:
The Senate approved next year’s budget after deleting a $300 allocation to the Social Council. Bob Cunningham, who proposed the
cut, said he saw no purpose in the Senate giving funds to the Social Council when there are so many
other sources the money could come from. “There is no need to needlessly pad our budget when there are many
other organizations which also must be funded. Some of them might be more deserving,” Cunningham said. “Also, by funding social
events ourselves we would be further fragmenting the social system.”

The Senate granted charters to the New Jersey Student Association and the Davidson Archeological Society. Also, the group passed a
motion providing for an ad hoc committee on athletics to be organized by Calvin Allen.

The Senate also heard a report from Frank Farmer on the financial status of the APO store. Farmer stated that
the store had so far made a net total of about $500.

Class of '77 Accepted:
An additional 431 potential freshmen have been accepted for the class of 1977, according to William Miller, assistant director of
admissions. The 329 men and 102 women are in addition to the 31 men and 13 women previously accepted under
the early decision plan. Of these, 255 men and 84 women are expected to actually matriculate in September. Miller said
that 30 men and 46 women have applied to transfer as upperclassmen but that final decisions have not yet been
made on them.

Also passed was an amendment to call for a warning to all senators that they are liable for impeachment if
they miss four consecutive Senate meetings. If a senator should miss six consecutive meetings, his impeachment would become part of
the record.

Contributors this week: Ed Bowen, Joe Duncan, Grey Dunn, Gary Garvin, John McElveen, Charles Slagle, Francis Townsend, Paul Welch, and
Pete West.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 238, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.
