Page Eight

Sidelines WITH SLAGS

Davidson is down six points early in the second half and Coach Holland takes a time out. What do you hear? What do you see? You usually hear slight mumbles from the crowd around you. You see the Davidson Wildcat running around the court while the cheerleaders are sitting under the basket talking to each other and the small pep band doing the same. This is just a hypothetical case but how many times has this happened this year? It seems to me that this happens much too often. In fact, as an observer of all the games this year, the Davidson crowd has been the most disappointing part of the season.

The support from the Davidson crowd has been poor this year. The typical Davidson student can be characterized as an apathetic or disgusted fan. There were many times this season when students have remained in the dorms when the team had a game either in Johnston Gym or in the Charlotte Coliseum. This would not be quite as bad if all the games were during the week but many of these games occurred on weekends. A great deal of students are disgusted with the team's performance thus far this year and look for excuses as to why the team is playing the way they are. They blame individual team members, the coaches, and the referees in an attempt to rationalize the team's playing. These are the same people who can be seen at a game yelling obscenities at the referee whenever, in their opinion, he has made a bad call against Davidson. These spectators yell at the coaches and boo some of the players when they enter the game. This is not what I would consider team support and it probably hinders the team's performance more than it helps it.

Many students would argue that there is no reason to cheer on the team because they are playing so poorly this year. There are many teams in the country, however, who after playing our schedule would love to have a 16-8 record. This team has lost some close games and some they should not have lost, but that is no reason to give up on them. The fans who are disgusted and look for excuses are not helping the team at all. These students who believe they could be player, coach, and referee all rolled into one when things are going rough probably hurt the team more than the apathetic students who stay home. These fans are negative cheerers. Yelling at the referee is not going to help the team. Telling the coach who to play and booing players when they come in is not going to help the team. These fans should ask what else they can do.

Where is the origin of our poor crowd? I do not believe the cheerleaders can be completely blamed for this lack of support. The whole student body has to help the cheerleaders with vocal support. Still, the cheerleaders allow too many time outs to go by without cheering. This can also be said about the pep band. The members of the pep band are doing a good job but there must be a number of other students who could be in the pep band but do not play. This makes the pep band small and therefore not as loud as they should be. The best way for Davidson to build up its school support would be a concerted effort by the student body including cheerleaders and the members of the pep band. If the cheerleaders make an effort to get something started, the fans should help them out. Students should make an effort to get to the away games and let the home team know where you are from. Despite this season being close to an end, there is still a tournament and the possibility of post-season play after that, so if our fans can make their support more positive and vocal, the team might go further than many people expect.

—§—<$—$———

Cats Put Title On Line As SC Tourney Opens

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

The quest to gain all the marbles in the Southern Conference got underway last night in Richmond, Va. The first round of the Southern Conference Tournament began with top-seeded Davidson meeting eighth-ranked VMI in an early afternoon encounter. Prior to leaving Davidson, Head Basketball Coach Terry Holland commented on the first round. “I expect that all the seeded teams will win,” the fourth-year mentor said. “Of course, there could easily be some upsets. But I think that the top teams should get to the semifinals."

Other first-round contests included number two Furman against Appalachian, The Citadel vs. William and Mary, and Richmond meeting the Pirates of East Carolina. In the bracket with the Davidson-VMI winner will be the winner of the Citadel-William and Mary contest. If Furman conquers the Mounties, they will take on either the Pirates or the Spiders. Holland also felt that there was a good chance that the Wildcats would be paired with the Paladins in the finals of thetournament. “It is probable that there will be a rematch between Davidson and Furman in the finals," he said. "But the odds are not great for it. There is a good possibility that either one or both of the teams might not make it to the finals." Holland must indeed be wary of tournament play. In 1971, after having won the regular season crown for the fourth straight year, the Cats dropped to Furman in the first round of the tourney to finish the year at 15-11. The next season, the Cats again captured the season title, but got bopped by East Carolina in the semifinals of the tournament. (Staff photo by Goodman)

UP, UP AND AWAY
Greg Dunn leaps to the bucket.

Tournament Picks Released
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

It is tournament time again. With a perfect record regarding predictions so far, I am going to make a valiant effort to guess the entire SC maze. It should always be remembered that a tournament is the most likely place for upsets to occur. It was also brought to my attention that "anyone could have predicted our last three ball games." This may be true. But there was doubt as to whether or not we would be able to conquer Furman in the second meeting, as well as being able to beat Dayton on their home court. But a sportswriter must take criticism in stride, as do the players that sportswriters sometimes criticize, so here go the predictions.

It looks as though the Southern Conference Tournament will have much excitement in store for the fans around Richmond this weekend. The first round games will go much as expected. Look for the Wildcats to take a breather and whip the Keydets of VMI by about 15-20 points. With a five-game winning streak, the Cats will be tough to stop. Furman should have little problem with the Mountaineers as they are really out for the title. The Paladins by around 13-19. As for the Bulldog-Indian battle, anything can happen. I am giving the edge to The Citadel by about three points. But this one will be easy to miss.

The biggie in the bracket with Furman concerns the hometown Spiders and the ECU Pirates. ECU will be out to get another crown and the homecourt advantage is just not quite enough. The Pirates by five.

Holland's SC tournament record for his previous three years stands at four wins and two losses, all with regular season winners. Holland was quick to take a realistic look at the teams in the tournament this time. "It will take three good games back-to-back to win the title," he stated. "I think our attitude is right for the tournament." Holland emphasized the necessity of board strength if the Cats are to go all the way. "We will have to be tough on both the offensive and defensive boards. The control of both areas is of the utmost importance for our game," he said. "I thought that Larry Horowitz had a great game against Dayton," Holland praised. "He will really be up both physically and mentally for the Tournament. We will just have to play consistent basketball if we are going to win," he said, "and rebounding will be the key."

The Cats are obviously up for the tournament and ready to turn the tables on the tournament jinx of the past couple of years. Holland was looking for something of a control game in the first round from VMI. "I do not think they will hold the ball on us," he said. "But I do think that they will look for the good shot and try to stop us from running."

Defending champion ECU will have their work cut out as they face Richmond on the Spiders’ home court. The Pirates, after a rather disappointing season, will be out to salvage a winning record and possibly the NCAA playoff berth. If the Furman-Davidson rematch materializes in the final round Saturday night, it should prove to be the clutch game of the season for both clubs, as each lost to the other on a hostile court this season. The outcome of the tourney will probably decide the winners of the coach and player of the year awards for the Southern Conference.

In the semis, providing the first round is correct, the Cats will meet the Bulldogs. Go with the Cats by about 15-21 in somewhat of a runaway. Furman and ECU in another rematch. The Paladins will be tough, though. Furman by

And now the finals. Furman and Davidson. A sportswriter's dream. A national prediction service, which uses an intricate power-point rating based on an abundant amount of statistics says that it will be a tie if these teams meet in the finals. That seems an easy way out. Besides, I do not use an intricate system. It is what I'd call the "Hunch and Hope System." And the hunch goes with the Cats (probably based too much on bias). But we want the title "awfully bad." And I think we will get it. The Cats by five.