Scottish Homecoming Features First Davidson Gaelic Games
By ALAN FORD
Asst. Features Editor

Lads and Lassies take heed! Do you own a kilt, a pair of trews, or a tartan sash? If so, you are in good shape for the first Davidson Gaelic Games. The games will be a highlight of the Scottish Festival planned by the Alumni Office for part of this year’s Homecoming activities.

Zach Long, Associate Director of Alumni Relations, revealed that “the idea for the games came from watching some of the Scottish events during the Highland Games at Grandfather Mountain last summer. With the strong Scottish heritage that Davidson has, it seemed quite appropriate to introduce competition in the ancient Gaelic games to the campus. A number of alumni, including John Fagg '67 and Ray Sweetenburg '72, have participated, won, and held records in the Grandfather Mountain games. Perhaps if the current students become more familiar with these games which the ancestors of the founders of the College participated in, they might even begin participating in the events at some of the Scottish Games competition around the south.” (Charlotte, Atlanta, and Charleston all have Highland Games competitions now in addition to those at Grandfather Mountain.)

The activities will include the caber toss, sheaf toss, weight throw, and Cumberland wrestling. The caber is a pole of between 17 and 20 feet in length, weighing about 120 pounds. The object is to throw it forward; the best throws include flipping the caber forward as far as possible in a straight line. The sheaf toss is somewhat simpler. The sheaf is a tow sack or burlap bag filled with hay and feed grain and weighing about 20 pounds. The competitor uses a three-pronged pitchfork to toss the sheaf over a bar for height. For the weight throw, a person only has to throw a 56-pound ball straight out, somewhat like throwing a discus, for distance. The same weight is used in the toss except that it is thrown straight up for height.

“All eating clubs, fraternities, and dorms are being asked to enter teams for the events,” Long said. He added that the winning group would receive “a nice monetary prize,” about two kegs worth. There will be both amateur competition (for those who have never participated in a Highland Games event) and professionals, who will also assist in coaching the amateurs in the various ancient events. Bob Porterfield, recent champion of several events at the Grandfather Mountain Games, and former Olympic bronze medal winner “Chunk” Simmons, both of Charlotte, will be among the professionals.

“We are asking that as many people as possible wear kilts (for the lads) and tartan sashes (for the lassies) to Homecoming,” Long noted, “in order to add to the festivity and color of the occasion.” Since Davidson doesn’t have a mountain, the Gaelic games will be held on “Davidson Meadow.” (That is a fancy euphemism for the lower soccer field.) The fun will start around 10 a.m., Saturday, Oct. 6, with the finals for the professional division of the caber toss taking place during the half-time of the football game with East Carolina.

Along with the games, Scottish-styled entertainment will be provided during the morning and prior to the Homecoming football game by the Charlotte Scottish Pipe Band. The band will perform traditional Scottish music on the bagpipes, and Scottish dancers will demonstrate Highland dances such as the fling and sword dance. After the morning games, competitors and other Homecoming participants can regain lost energy at the annual Homecoming Luncheon, being held this year in “Patterson Glen.” (It is rumored that some refer to said area as the lowlands in the middle of Patterson Court.) Luncheon tickets can be purchased at the Alumni Office. Lads and Lassies, that means you!

Lack Of Space
By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

Nowhere is the shortage of classroom and working space on the Davidson campus more deeply felt than by the departments in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

“The problem goes back to when the building was first put up,” said Professor of Art Herb Jackson. “At that time, the visual arts was a one-man department. Since then, we've created a major in the visual arts and have expanded to the present three-man faculty. The problem now is that we need studio space for people to work.”

Indeed, when the building was erected, it suited the needs of a maximum 1000 students, mostly for music, and no drama department whatsoever. Jackson also cited the lack of any significant space that could be used for both permanent and changing exhibitions. “We have about $6000 worth of donated artwork just lying around in drawers because there isn’t any place to put it,” Jackson continued. “The Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition is also the largest of its kind in the country. The artwork comes in from all over the country, but we hardly have enough room to unpack it since space is so tight around here,” complained Jackson. “And there is no place to really hang it once it’s all uncrated,” he said. “We have to go out of Stowe Gallery and put the works out in the hallways of the building. The idea isn’t bad, but then we’ve got about $70,000 worth of artwork in the halls that’s opened to all types of hazards.”

Jackson realized that the idea of putting up another art building is a “remote possibility,” but thinks that the problem, for the moment, could be relieved. “Whatwe'd like to do is to take over the Union as the art department classroom space, once the new library is finished and the Union hopefully moves to the old library,” Jackson said. Jackson proposed that once the move is made, the music department could absorb the additional space in Cunningham now occupied by the visual arts offices. “We'll need that classroom space,” he stated, “since the department is expanding. It will eventually be necessary to hire a sculptor for three-dimensional artwork and probably another art historian.”

As for additional exhibiting areas, Jackson said that he would like to see the dining hall in Chambers’ basement renovated for artwork display. “If that happened, a student could visit an art gallery going to and from Chambers and the new library,” he speculated.

Even though space is also critical for the Drama department, the lack of classroom facilities is not as great as the need for rehearsal and storage room. Professor of Speech and Drama Rupert Barber claimed, “In terms of drama, it is obviously overcrowded. There is virtually no rehearsal space or storage facilities, and the stage wagon that we have is ineffective, which makes the room we have for set construction almost nothing.”

Indeed, the idea of a stage wagon (a stage put on movable tracks to be decorated in the wings and rolled out for performances) was a good idea at the time of its construction several years ago, but since then, the tracks have almost buckled under the stage’s weight, making it necessary for the platform to be permanently anchored. Therefore, to put on performances, the drama department has to vie with the rest of the school for the stage in Hodson Hall, designed primarily for recitals and lectures, and barely adequate for theatrical productions.

In storage space also, Barber stated that the department’s needs were not being met. “Our major dry storage space is under the far football stands where it is totally open to anybody,” Barber explained. Like others in the Fine Arts building, Barber puts the blame on the lack of foresight by the college when it built Cunningham. “The interest in the Arts at Davidson has grown tremendously over the past 10 years, which is part of an overall trend across the country. But now our facilities are not adequate,” he said.

(See ARTS, page 12)

---

MIA Represents Faceless Vietnam Image

There’s a soap opera on TV that features a soldier who is an MIA in Southeast Asia. The soap opera plot is complex (as usual), but the gist of it is that everybody in the United States thinks that the soldier is dead. His common-law wife has remarried and his mother has adopted another son. After all, the sob story says - life must go on. However, on with the story: the soldier isn’t dead, but he is wounded. In fact, he’s hurt so badly that a bandage is covering up his whole face except for the necessary holes for breathing and vision. The cynical may say that the bandage is a last-ditch attempt of the soap opera to conceal the fact that the actor now playing the part of the soldier is not the same man who was reported missing in action. There is a new actor playing the role. This is good for the actor, but bad for the soap opera.

Anyway, I watched this faceless fiend trying to find his way home from the jungles of Southeast Asia. Suddenly the situation wasn’t funny to me anymore. It hit me that the faceless image is indeed the spirit of Southeast Asia. Think about the destruction that the United States caused in Vietnam and Cambodia. Think about the thousands of people who were killed in our bombing raids. Why aren’t we moved to anger, or sorrow, or desperation by that carnage? Because the people killed or maimed were statistics only? Because they were unknown to us? Because they were faceless.

Most of us have reacted to the tales of horror with as much emotion as we would show about the score of a football game. Some of us have summoned up as much reaction as if we had heard of somebody poisoning all the pets and familiar stray dogs around Davidson. But, just for a moment consider the statistics of the killed or injured in Southeast Asia, American and Asians. Give just a few of them voices, faces, names, identities. Imagine them to have been your friends or family. Imagine somebody calling your countrymen ‘gooks’. Imagine hearing someone say after a friend of yours has been killed, ‘He didn’t mind dying. It’s his religion or something.’ O.K. So what is the difference? The war is supposed to be over. The dead are dead. Are we supposed to go out and sit on the ash heap and mourn over something we can do nothing about?

I have heard about a new defense budget. The president is asking Congress for $80 billion for defense. This request is waiting for action. If it passes, do we have any safeguard against the money being used (abused) in the same way it was in Southeast Asia? The money could very well be used to renew the flow of statistics of dead and wounded. Do we sit unmoved again? Write to your congressman. Ask him for action to guard against the misuse of defense funds. Ask him to vote that the defense budget be trimmed. Ask yourself how long our world can continue to view people as statistics. Make yourself responsible. Because if you view other human beings as objects, don’t be surprised if they view you in the same way.