Che Dauidsanian

KICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 26, 1973

A Little Blue Skying

The Union program book recently developed by C. Shaw Smith is an interesting dream of what he would like to see in a new Union at Davidson and for the most part, it is a good attempt to catalogue what might be included in an ideal union. Of course, no Union at this college will include all that Smith has outlined. Money is too precious to Davidson to pour into a building larger than Chambers or the new library. But we don't want to build a structure which will shrink in utility as the college expands.

The program book does include essentials which we feel are absolutely necessary to a functional and communal student center. Any Union should try to accommodate all student organizations within the confines of the building. Such centralization will most probably encourage participation in these activities and create a spirit of cooperation among them. A large Morrison Room which could accommodate some 800 people is also a necessity. Not only will it provide flexibility of programming, but it will also allow for larger groups to congregate. Meeting rooms, TV rooms, a rathskeller, a student store, game rooms, a vending area, a movie theater, and a listening room are also necessary to the kind of Union we need on this campus.

In addition to such necessities, Smith's plan also includes some highly desirable areas such as a campus-wide photography lab, a snack bar, the intriguing Think Tank with aquarium, and a conversation pit. But there are also several items which appear a bit extravagant and quite unrealistic for the Davidson situation. An arts and crafts shop would be better placed in a fine arts center where skilled advisors may direct the creative energies of Davidson students. A Senate Chambers for a Senate that meets only once a week seems also to be a bit much. A meeting room would be more versatile and just as functional. Although a self-service area for automobiles is an interesting idea, we doubt that a Union is the place for it. Similarly, we believe the current post office serves the needs of the students adequately. As for the dome room, one is enough at Davidson.

Aside from these specifics, the program book for a Union raises some general questions which will need to be answered in the near future. First, there involves the question of a site. Clearly, the old library is inadequate. Not only would the location be undesirable, but the actual building itself could not provide the needed and desired services mentioned above. Any administrator or trustee who tries to put the Union in that building will do a disservice to the college no matter how much money it will save. An underground structure appears a little unrealistic, as does the site in the center of Patterson Court. Consequently, we feel the Lingle Manor site or the laundry site to be two satisfying alternatives to build a new Union. We prefer the latter to the former because of its proximity to the dorms. But the Lingle Manor site would allow more room for expansion.

A second question involves the cost of building such a structure. There is absolutely no way this college can raise Smith's projected $3 million for a new Union. Student fees should be poured into programming, not a new building. It is unlikely that our alumni will support such a venture when they barely support the new library. In order to get government loans, we would have to include in the Union profit-making businesses such as a food service or a student store in order to pay off the loan. This raises a third question of where we want to put the food service in the future. Should we leave it on the court or put it in the Union? A third alternative might be that the whole student body will want to eat in a cafeteria in the Union. To answer such a question, the Campus Planning Committee will have to project what the social patterns will be several years from now. Such will not be an easy task.

A fourth general question involves what role this Union building will play in the life of this college. A building alone will not provide a good social or cultural life for students. Programming is essential for a Union to fulfill its function. While the Campus Planning Committee is sorting out the physical aspects of the Union, we suggest the Union staff use their creative energies to build a better program. Davidson is a small school with a communal tradition. Even with a projected enrollment of 1500, we believe this atmosphere will still prevail. Consequently, Davidson does not want a Union with expansive lobbies reminiscent of large university unions that look like hospitals. Intimacy will be the watchword in planning any Union facility here.

The questions of site, financing, food service, and Union roles, however, are only a few areas which will require investigation. Clearly, the alternatives mentioned...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

These are not the only ones available. But these are just things which the campus needs to think about. The Campus Planning Committee has gotten a slow start in its deliberations, and we doubt if it is big enough to handle all the questions of future planning that the President has assigned to it. We encourage them to do a little "blue skying" and we hope they will take a hard look at the needs of the students here.

‘Good God’ Blends Zappa, McLaughlin Musical Influences

A REVIEW By WOL. ENDY Staff Writer

To regular readers of ‘Rolling Stone’ or some other “youth periodical” this article may be superfluous. But I’m snowbound, and the need to write it is not superfluous. I envisaged a “Holiday Sampler” article reviewing albums I'd met over the term break. However, a particular phenomenon so struck me that the previous non-article has succumbed.

The ostensible review here is of a debut album by Good God -- roughly a fourth-generation group out of Philadelphia. Earlier Philadelphia groups of this type are a memorial to non-success: Elizabeth, American Dream, Edison Electric, and Sweet Stavin Chain. Good God might pass that way, but I think not owing to three factors: Captain Beefheart christened the group when they called his Los Angeles residence for a name, the music is a good bit more than listenable, and they are an example of that phenomenon I mentioned earlier.

The music comes from five men and shows three primary influences: Frank Zappa, John McLaughlin, and Weather Report. But forget these, for affinities send one back to sources and that's hardly my intention here. Good God are thorough musicians; three having, the by now “de rigueur”, classical training. McLaughlin’s “Dragon Song” receives a rousing treatment via solos by Gregg Scott on sax and Zeno Sparkles on guitar. Zappa's “King Kong” opens quickly and lightly into a somewhat gentler electric piano by Cotton Kent. This is gradually overtaken by crying horns, very akin to a Weather Report treatment. Zeno's guitar leads back to piano and alto sax in a nice melange.

But the four pieces which distinguish the group's style are those written by Cotton Kent and Zeno Sparkles. Zeno's (Larry Cardarelli’s) pieces are “Stone the Crows” and “Fisheye”, while Kent contributes “Galorna Gavorna” and “Zaragonza”.

Entertainment

By BILL ELLETT Copy Editor

“Romeo and Juliet” by Charles Francois Gounod will be presented in English Sunday at 2:30 p.m. and Monday at 8 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium by the Charlotte Opera Association. The opera is a condensation of the original Shakespeare, retaining the most lyric scenes and those plot moving. Though the story of young lovers of Verona, which Shakespeare himself borrowed from at least three earlier by at least a dozen composers, Gounod’s 1867 version is considered the most successful. Tickets are $6.50, $4.50, $3.50, and $2.

The latter pieces are as melodious as the titles suggest. Kent's keyboards carry the weight, allowing guitar to take speculative solos. Vocals are sparse but always harmonious. “Galorna Gavorna” has some very tasteful piano with wah-wah passages, reminiscent of Mike Finnigan's work with the Jerry Hahn Brotherhood, and contains an appearance by Johnny Almond. “Zaragoza” opens with a piano rippling into a sax-led passage which almost puts one in mind of a 13-day journey on camel across the Sahara, replete with mirages and the post-effects of motion sickness.

Zeno's “Fisheye” is perhaps the premiere piece on the album. I'll not say anymore than that it defines a peculiar romantic agony and that brings us to the phenomenon. From the lyrics of “Fisheye” one may grasp what I'm on to:

How many people want to try me? Oh I ought to know; How you do, you floating by me. Oh I shouldn't go. Oh I'm back, back again. Oh you move through the deep and dank. And don't you think I hear you saying; It's so, it's so: twice as bad. I don't know who to thank. There's nothing for it but to go. Oh I'm back, back, back again.

It's a newly-opened closet. Gone are the necessarily shocking antics of an Alice Cooper (as well as the alluring brushes in the locker room), replaced by the studied shrillness of a David Bowie. He's on his own now, produced by David Bowie. That's right, if our green litmus can once measure the latency of the American public, why not twice? All enterprises finally go public.

I've strayed from the music. Good God is tight -- trilling solos, looming crescendos, and tension-filled transitions. A spate of college talk may dissipate the phenomenon in six to nine months; the music is sure to outlast or grow with it. (This article is not intended to trigger tracts warning against moral delinquency.)

James Houlik, a saxophonist, will present works by Bessozi, Vivaldi, Debussy, Schmitt, Cunningham, and others this Sunday at 3 p.m. in the Golden Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum of Art. Admission is by season ticket only. Tickets are available at the door.