(Staff photo by Goodman)

AHHH YES, SUNNY HAITI
Neal Gregory departs to study infant mortality.

CAREER SERVICE
The Davidsonian
March 9, 1973
Page Three

Infant Mortality Study Lures Gregory To Haiti This Spring
By MIKE TANNER
Managing Editor

For Davidson student Neal Gregory, the upcoming winter exams will mark the end of his stay at Davidson for the academic year 1972-73. Beginning in late March, Gregory will join the staff of a Cambridge-based research team studying infant mortality and population migration in Haiti. Gregory found a place with this group through the services of the Davidson College Career Service program, directed by Randall Kincaid. According to Gregory, his work will be based at the Albert Schweitzer Memorial Hospital located at Deschapelles, a small town.

Cartography Scholar Presents British Museum Map Treasures
By MARK DEATON
Asst. Managing Editor

Helen Wallis, superintendent of the Map Room and deputy keeper of the British Museum, presented an illustrated lecture on the history of the British Museum, highlighting some of its most interesting treasures, in the Philanthropic Hall Wednesday evening. Wallis, one of Britain's most distinguished scholars in the fields of historical cartography and the history of exploration and discovery, is presently visiting Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming. She spoke at Davidson after a lecturing tour of the west coast of Canada and the United States and before visiting the Library of Congress and speaking in Williamsburg, Va.

“I was always interested in geography and history,” said Wallis. “I chose a field combining the two." She came into contact with the British Museum while writing her doctoral thesis on “The Exploration of the Pacific.” After receiving her D. Phil. from Oxford University, she began work at the museum. As superintendent of the Map Room, she now refers to herself as a ‘Museum Piece."

Wallis explained that cartography serves both the arts and the sciences. “The technical side of maps is a scientifically studied field,” Wallis explained. “Sometimes a map is the main means of scientific advance.

“Another aspect of mapping is more in the line of serving the humanities,” she said. “Many maps, of course, show cultural landscapes.

“Another side of cartography, especially in early maps, lies in the consideration of maps as works of art. Many artists occupied in doing fine paintings were also engraving beautiful maps," she indicated. “A well-produced modern map is considered a work of art in its own way,” Wallis explained. She cited relatively new methods of mapping such as automated mapping, computer mapping, and mapping from satellites as being responsible for very fine productions.

“These days, one doesn't look for the same kind of antiquity in maps,” said Wallis. “It would surprise people today if we put cherubs around a map title.

“Of course all maps don't need to be literally accurate. For example, there is a certain London underground map which is not artistic, but is very effective. While the directions and distances are not accurate, all relationships are true,” she explained.

Wallis, who serves as the first woman president of the British Cartographic Society, cited several of the most interesting treasures of the British Museum. She mentioned a map in the King George collection marking the boundary between the then new United States and the British territory. “This map was used in 1782, in the Conference in Paris,” Wallis indicated. “It is a fascinating map as a part of political history."

Wallis expressed particular enjoyment in setting up exhibitions. She cited an exhibition celebrating the bicentennial of Captain Cook in 1968, and an exhibition commemorating the 1473 birth of Copernicus. Wallis explained that the oldest map in the British Museum was a Babylonian tablet showing the world and cosmos dated 500 B.C. Wallis also mentioned Egyptian views of the fields of the dead. “These show what Egyptians thought of life after death.”to come, and while not themselves maps, they fall into the same category," Wallis explained.

READING
Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will offer its speed reading program to Davidson students beginning in early April. To acquaint students with procedures of the course, two free "mini lessons" will be given in Perkins Auditorium during the last week of March. Total cost of the program is $125; further information will be available at the beginning of April.

"We Rent Tux"
Cornelius, N. C.
Phone 892-8064

Consisting primarily of a hospital compound, about 15 miles outside of Port-Au-Prince, the researchers, headed by a husband-wife team from Harvard University, are in the area to study the effects of the peculiar Haitian family structure on the death rate of infants and small children. Common in Haiti today is a marriage arrangement known as the placage marriage. Gregory explained that this is very similar to the common-law marriages found in the United States, only they appear to be much more transient. The unusual feature of the placage marriage is the manner in which involved children are dealt with once the relationship is broken, as most inevitably are. When a placage family breaks apart in Haiti, the sons are required to go with the father, who usually returns to his home village. The daughters are then left in the care of the mother. However, if the mother later wishes to remarry, the daughters are then left with another relative, usually a grandparent.

According to Gregory, this practice has resulted in an unusually high number of displaced children in the immediate vicinity of the Schweitzer Hospital due to its work in medical and hygiene education, which have drastically reduced the mortality rate of newborn babies. "The interesting thing is that despite the increased survival of the newborn in the area around the hospital, the mortality rate of children under five is nearly 50 percent," Gregory said. "What the study is really looking for then, is a picture of the effects of the widespread displacement of children on their availability for medical care and treatment." Related to this, the project is studying the migration patterns of young males, most of whom leave their home village for marriage but often return, with or without wives, by their mid-twenties. Gregory will be involved entirely with the compilation of data as reported by native Haitian workers who do all of the actual field work.

Friday, March 9
10 a.m. Dramatic Reading Phi Hall
5 p.m. WINTER TERM ENDS
7 p.m. Popular Film: Morrison Room "The Last Movie"
9 p.m. Popular Film Repeat Morrison Room

Saturday, March 10
WINTER EXAMS BEGIN
7 p.m. Popular Film: "The Last Movie"
9 p.m. Popular Film Repeat
11 p.m. Kartoon and Keg Party

Sunday, March 11
2 p.m. Meditators Meeting
10 p.m. Super Sundae: 50¢

Monday, March 12
9:45 p.m. Christian Fellowship

Tuesday, March 13
10 a.m. Any Questions? Dr. Spencer

Wednesday, March 14
5 p.m. WINTER EXAMS END
SPRING VACATION BEGINS

Morrison Room
Morrison Room
Rathskeller & Martin Room
Morrison Room
Morrison Room
Ovens Room

Cornelius 892-8468
10-9 P.M.
BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET
"It's Incomparable"
Sandwiches
Sundaes
FLAVOR SHAKES—Pizza

Discover the World on Your SEMESTER AT SEA
Sails each September & February
Combine accredited study with educational stops in Africa, Australasia, and the Orient. Over 5000 students from 450 campuses have already experienced this international program. A wide range of financial aid is available. Write now for free catalog: Chapman College, Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666

CORNELIUS
Open Til 9:00 Every Night
Lowest Prices On All Beverages