(stat photo by Goodman) 

WILDCAT EXPRESS

Duncan Moore advances the ball in the team’s last game of the season against Charlotte. Moore’s efforts paid off as he scored twice in a losing cause.

VMI Holds Cat Rally

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

VMI held off a 14-point surge in the last quarter to beat Davidson 24-17 last Saturday. The loss dropped the Cats to a 1-8 overall record and an 0-6 mark in the conference. The loss practically insures the Cats of last place in the Southern Conference this year.

In many ways, it was the team’s most frustrating loss of the season. After two good showings against William and Mary and the Air Force Academy, it was hoped that Davidson could break into the win column for the second time this year against VMI.

VMI dominated the first half, taking a 17-0 lead at halftime. VMI's first score came on a 21-yard pass with six minutes left in the first quarter. A 33-yard field goal with 16 seconds left in the quarter made the score 10-0 in favor of the Keydets. VMI's next score came on a 64-yard drive lasting close to 10 minutes. Davidson's first score came late in the third quarter when Jack Stultz kicked a 26-yard field goal.

Emory Crushes Cat Booters, Stone Optimistic For Future

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Traveling to Atlanta, Ga., the Davidson soccer team ended its 1973 season with a 6-1 loss to Emory University. The defeat capped a 5-7-2 seasonal mark for the Cats under the leadership of first-year head coach Chip Stone.

“I must admit I was not pleased with the record of the team,” Stone pointed out. “There were two games that we lost and two that we tied which we should have won.”

Those kinds of results plagued Stone’s debut in the coaching realm, having replaced the late Harry Fogleman during the spring of last year. But Stone has a great deal of optimism for the future of Davidson soccer.

“Things look pretty good for us next year,” Stone emphasized. “I know what we have got and we have quite a few players coming back, many of them with a lot of experience.”

Stone also feels the recent move by the trustees, which will strive for more financial support of the minor sports at Davidson, will be of significant aid in the coming years. “We will have better equipment because of the extra financial funds we will be receiving,” Stone said in support of his feelings on the new monetary situation.

But the Cats will still not be able to have a comprehensive recruiting program for the soccer program due to a lack of funds. However, Stone added that he intended to “write letters and make some calls” to many prospective booters.

Ruggers Close Season With Two Point Loss

By ANN BODE
Staff Writer

Davidson Rugby Club finished its fall season with a 16-14 loss against Charlotte. The match was hard-fought with both teams scoring an equal number of tries, but an extra point kick put Charlotte ahead in the final statistics.

Duncan Moore at wing led the Davidson offense in scoring two well-deserved tries. Moore claimed his first score by touching down a foot rush started by Dave Kitrell. Davidson then scored again when the alert Moore slipped through the Charlotte back line to carry the ball all the way into touch.

David Kitrell was responsible for the rest of the Davidson points when he charged into the end zone with the ball and then kicked his own extra points. Davidson's major problem during the game was in the set scrums. The ball rarely came out.On the Davidson side, Charlotte’s backs took good advantage of this offensive edge. Set scrums especially hurt when Charlotte was deep in Davidson territory. Charlotte backs were able to get the ball quickly from the scrum and move it almost into touch before the Davidson forwards could break out of the scrum. After the game, Paul Scott, playing prop, commented, "In such a close game, this small advantage for the Charlotte team proved to be the David- hopes of getting some talent to bolster the team in the coming year." Stone did note the disadvantages of not having the money to travel and actually "see the guys play." At any rate, the soccer program here seems to be on the move, despite the failure of the team to reach the high expectations Stone had for them this year. "We did not get to where we wanted to be," Stone admitted. "But we are going to improve the soccer program and reach those goals soon."

shh! we want to hear you

NORTHWESTERN
The Quet Company
Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036
College Agents
Brad Tipler
Dick Richardson
Rollie White
Bill Smith
Mike Pappas

Midway in the fourth quarter, VMI scored their final touchdown making the score 24-3. With less than six minutes, the Cats mounted two quick scoring drives of 53 and 50 yards. The first touchdown came on a 10-yard pass from Dave Harper to Dave Ingold. Ingold also scored the Cats' other touchdown on a five-yard run. "I guess it was just a case of too little too late," Ingold said after the game. The loss dropped the Cats into last place in the Southern Conference, leaving them only one more chance to record a win against a conference for this year. The Cats' main problem was their inability to stop the ball control tactics of the VMI squad. Most of the Keydet scores came on long marches that ate up the clock. VMI relied on their running backs to use up time. The Keydets had 72 rushing plays in comparison to a total of 62 plays for the Cats. As a team, VMI rushed for 324 yards against Davidson, an average of almost five yards a carry. As expected, Davidson led in the passing department. Harper completed 18 of 43 attempts for 140 yards. Ingold led the Cats' weak rushing attack with 18 yards in six carries. Overall, the Cats managed a meager 33 yards on the ground as three Davidson ball carriers ended the day with minus yardage. In fairness to the Cats, however, it must be pointed out that they went into the VMI contest with several starters out and several more unable to play at full strength after the Air Force game. Indicative of the Cats' depth problems was tackle Jim Spears who started for injured Al Schaberg. Spears was injured early in the game and had to be replaced by Schaberg, who was not completely recovered from an injury incurred several weeks ago. Before the game, head coach Dave Fagg had expressed concern with the injury problems that have plagued the Cats all season.

MEN! — WOMEN! JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information, SEAFAX, Dept. 4-14 P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362.

HATTIE'S HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30
IMPORTED BEER
Now Serving The “Hattie” Cheeseburger
Where the good things are!
Cornelius, N.C. 892-8468

PEPPY’S PIZZA
OFF Family Sized Pizza
Ph. 663-2792
550 N. Main
Mooresville
Clip This Coupon