Page Twelve April 6, 1973

The Davidsonian

Friday, April 6 and Bringle
Saturday, April 7 and Bringle
Monday, April 9

Up ‘w’ Coming

All day Art Exhibit: The Second Stowe Galleries Davidson National
8 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium “Finian’s Rainbow”
8 p.m. Hungry I: Spriggs Rathskeller and Bringle
9 p.m. Hungry I: Spriggs Rathskeller and Bringle
10 p.m. Popular Film Repeat Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Hungry I: Spriggs Rathskeller

All day Strindberg Exhibit Chambers Foyer
8:30 a.m. Graduate Study in Chambers Dining Hall Business Test
8 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium “Finian’s Rainbow”
8 p.m. Hungry I: Spriggs Rathskeller and Bringle
9 p.m. Hungry I: Spriggs Rathskeller and Bringle
10 p.m. Popular Film Repeat Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Hungry I: Spriggs Rathskeller

10 a.m. Davidson Photo Club Cunningham Room
3 p.m. Modern Poets: Honors College Film Festival
8:15 p.m. Annual Spring Concert Hodson Hall of Davidson Male Chorus
9:45 p.m. Christian Fellowship Martin Room

Tuesday, April 10

10 a.m. Any Questions? Dr. Spencer Ovens Room
10 a.m. Film: “The Tenement” Morrison Room
12 noon Film: “Shaw and Women” Love Auditorium
2 p.m. Film: “The Tenement” Morrison Room
4 p.m. Film: “The Tenement” Morrison Room
7 p.m. Film: “Over There” Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Open End: Morrison Room Subsidized Football

Wednesday, April 11

2 p.m. Bhowani Junction Morrison Room
7 p.m. Camera Club Morrison Room
8 p.m. Fine Film: “The Phantom of the Opera” Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Flying Club Chambers 211

Thursday, April 12

4 p.m. Film: “Kim” Morrison Room
7 p.m. Catholic Mass Phi Hall
8 p.m. Faculty Research Group Eu Hall
8 p.m. Film: “Kim” Morrison Room
10 p.m. Film: “Kim” Morrison Room

New Housing Changes

(Continued From Page 1)

“has some valid reason for being selected,” said Mrs. Nicholls, “but the committee questioned whether living together is essential to
all of these programs.”

In another housing first, present freshmen were allowed to request blocks of rooms in Belk Dorm. Seven groups took advantage
of the program and were assigned adjoining rooms in the wings of Belk. “These blocks were limited to six rooms,
or in other words, 12 students,” explained Mrs. Nicholls. Only one of the blocks reached the limit of six rooms.
“If students in the blocks decide they want to drop out,” said Nicholls, “they are free to do so. I
hope that having a group of friends for neighbors will make living in Belk at least a little more pleasant.”

COLLEGIATE NOTES

Understand all subjects, plays, and novels faster!
—Thousands of topics available within 48 hours of mailing
—Complete with bibliography and footnotes
—Lowest Prices are GUARANTEED

SEND $1.90 for our latest descriptive Mail-Order Catalogue with Postage-Paid Order Forms to:
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH GUIDE
N. 13th St. Rm 706
Phila., Pa. 19107
HOT-LINE (215) 563-3758

Jewelry Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, NC.

Deal's Restaurant and Grill
663-4141
Mooresville, N.C.
Open 6 A.M. till Midnight
Closed Mondays
Call and Take-Out Orders Will Be Ready

Pharmacy Pricings Studied

(Continued From Page 5)

the same color, like for tetracycline, all orange and yellow. “Some generic drugs are made by reputable drug companies, but
they usually don't have distinguishing marks on them other than a numerical code. The brand name drugs are always stamped,”
he said.

Some of the arguments against the use of generic drugs in place of brand name ones are that the former
are not made with the same quality of materials and that some disreputable drug firms do make them. This kind
of argument, however, is mostly held by older doctors, while younger ones don't think that these arguments hold. This type
of feeling is also held by pharmacists, according to Lamas. “Every druggist I talked to said that they wouldn't give
a generic drug to anybody in their family.”

Yet from the study he did, Lamas indicated that in 12 of the pharmacies, the generic drugs were manufactured by
reputable drug companies, and in 14 out of the 15 pharmacies the druggist did actually fill the prescription generically. “Either
the druggist is giving out inferior drugs, or he is lying to you when he tells you about his objections
to generic drugs,” criticized Lamas.

He also mentioned another money-making scheme which pharmacists use which costs the general public in revenues. The idea involves those
patients who need drugs and are on a government medical assistance program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Each pharmacist has
a form for such cases with the patient's name, the type of prescription, and the number of pills given on
it. Under federal law, thepharmacist is allowed to turn the form in for reimbursement and receive two dollars for each
prescription of a medical assistance patient. "What the druggist will do, for example," explained Lamas, "is to tell a patient
with a hundred-pill prescription that he only has fifty pills at that time and ask the patient to come back
for the other fifty the next day. That way, he'll get a reimbursement for two order forms instead of one."

In his report, Lamas states four main things which he thinks will help this situation for the consumer and lessen
the power of the State Board of Pharmacies, and thus independent drug stores and their prices. First, he advocates the
repeal of the 'gross immorality' clause to allow pharmacists, particularly the ones in the chain stores, to advertise their prices
and allow the consumer to selectively buy his drugs. Lamas would also like to see a restructure of the State
Board of Pharmacy in order to keep licensing practices fair. The structure he thinks would work best for the consumer
would be to have one pharmacist representing the independent store, one for the chain store, one from a government clinic
drug store, and one druggist each from a hospital and medical building drug store. This, Lamas feels, would serve all
interests best.

Another change needed, according to Lamas, is to keep independent drug interests out of pharmacy colleges. Under the present system,
these special interest groups won't allow pharmacy internships in chain drug stores. Medical colleges should teach courses in pharmacology, Lamas
feels, since most physicians right now are unaware of the various drugs' effects on their patients considering that the doctor
prescribes around 14 drugs for each patient in an average hospital stay. The only contact with drugs that doctors have
is through medical journals, and they only advertise brand name drugs.

The last change, he feels, should come through the consumer increasing his knowledge and awareness of drugs in his purchasing.
He feels that patients should make their doctor write out a prescription generically so as to lower the purchasing price
of the drug. When the consumer is in the drug store, Lamas recommends that he first know what he wants
and needs, and have the pharmacist give him what he wants. Another thing the consumer can do is to ask
the druggist the expiration date on the particular drug and be sure it is good before he buys it.

Lamas feels that the abnormalities in the retail drug picture persist because the responsibilities of the understaffed Food and Drug
Administration don't allow for the type of inspection necessary to correct the deficiencies. So far, response to his 70-page report
has been very favorable. The Charlotte Observer has had the report for a few weeks, and says that it will
make a good series of expose articles for the newspaper, but just when it will be printed they haven't said.
Lamas feels that this may be due to the loss of drug store advertising which might follow from such an
article.

...Leaders Discuss Policy (Continued From Page 1)

Grant, one of three faculty members present at Montreat, also noted that no consensus of opinion is yet evident in
the faculty. "It’s an exceedingly complex problem," he said. "We can't measure all of the values involved. There were several
requests for more information at the meeting."

Lack of sufficient information kept Professor of Biology David C. Grant, member of the Faculty Athletic Committee, from committing himself
on the subject of subsidized athletics. "Basically I think that de-subsidized athletics would be a good way to operate, but
one must take into account the benefits to the college which a higher level of ball might provide. It might
be very important, for example, to play national basketball," Grant said.

On the other hand, Grant observed, a school the size of Davidson should not feel that it must keep up
with everybody in all things. "At the present it appears that those portions of the athletic budget that affect the
most students, such as intramurals, receive a disproportionate amount," he said. "However, it is hard to weigh the effect of
the basketball and football programs on the student body."

Rent — Furniture From TRO EASE

It must be "Nature, to be commanded, Then enjoyed." That's why we make a natural beer. A beer without any
additives or chemical preservatives. For a natural Rheingold taste you just can't find in other beers. We know how you
feel about beer. Francis © New York City
