7. October 1972

Davidsonian

12 Coeds Enrolled In College Exchange

This year, 12 coeds are at Davidson as part of the college exchange program. The program was initiated in 1969 and has grown steadily since then. The coeds are from various colleges and are enrolled in different courses at Davidson. The exchange program aims to provide a diverse educational experience for both the visiting students and the Davidson community.

WORK SLOWS DOWN
(Staff photo by Goodman)

A steel strike and a delay in brick deliveries are the causes for the slowdown. The E.H. Little Memorial Library will still be ready by the 1974-75 school year, according to Grover C. Meetze, Director of the Physical Plant.

Library Construction Slackens
By CHARLES KENNON
Staff Writer

Grover C. Meetze, Director of the Physical Plant, reported that the construction of the E.H. Little Memorial Library has slowed down due to a steel strike and a delay in brick deliveries. Despite these setbacks, the library is expected to be completed by the 1974-75 school year.

Extended Studies Modified, Additional Programs
By LILLIAN GASCOIGNE
Staff Managing Editor

The Extended Studies program has undergone significant changes. New programs have been added, and existing ones have been modified to better serve the students. The changes aim to enhance the educational experience and provide more opportunities for student engagement.

Davidsonian

Executive Editor: MIKE TANNER
Managing Editor: BRUCE S. MARK
Features Editor: CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Sports Editor: JIM SITTERSON
GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Associate Editors: ALAN BLAKLEY, DOUG BROWN, TOM BRUCE, STEVE CANTERBURY, TODD EADES, JOE EAKLE, MARKY HOBBIE, RICHARD ROMEYN, MILES WARD
Contributing Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, PHILIP BISHOP, DAVID HANIG, ANDY LAMAS, HUGH MOORE, JIM PAULSEN
Technical Assistant: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Editors: LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, LARRY MALM, MARK WILENSKY
Editor: PETE GOODMAN
News Editor: HARRIETT HODGES
Assistant Features Editors: ALAN FORD, FRANCIS TOWNSEND, MARK CONNORS
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKCOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Assistant Business Managers: PHIL STYKES, DAVID TRADER
Typists: CHOLLET STILL, PATTI SHANKWEILER
Contributors this week: Anne Bode, Pete Celentano, Jordan Clark, Matthew Covington, Greg Dunn, Lynne Keener, Charlie Kennon, Joe McMillan, Will Robertson, John Tatum, Paul Weich, Chris Young, Lee Veaze

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate $5.00.

However, pass-fail grading is still considered the norm. After the 1973-74 school year, credit in Extended Studies will also be given for participation in Male Chorus, Wind Ensemble, or Debate. Faculty members heavily involved in academic work for which students receive credit may be released from one course a term. For faculty members unable to arrange this, the college has established a special fund.Approximately $10.0 a year is allocated for grants for summer research and study, administered by the Summer Research and Study Committee. Faculty members are expected to teach two courses and supervise over two projects per term. Those with only one course may accept up to six different projects. 

Much time has been spent preparing the interdisciplinary seminars, which include Penology and Criminal Justice in North Carolina, Debate, Photography as Art, Poverty and the Legal Process: Do the Poor Really Pay More?, probably available to juniors and seniors, and American Film Theater. A booklet explaining Extended Studies 1 and 2 has been prepared and may be obtained in Kincaid’s office. It also contains a listing of areas of interest of each faculty member. It will be ready by the start of the 1974-75 school year.

However, the library construction is behind schedule compared to the projected rate of progress drawn up with the original plans. Some reasons for the delay include a limestone workers' strike, a delay on steel for the penthouse to contain the mechanical controls, and the tight labor market. “The limestone strike could have been a disaster. It lasted for more than a month and we almost had to stop all work,” Meetze explained. The limestone was necessary for the columns and roof of the library. He added that the brick workers have been difficult for the contractor, H. R. Johnson of Monroe, to control.

Meetze tried to dispel any worries about on-time completion of the Little Library. “At this point, we are not apprehensive. We want to speed up, but there is no reason for alarm. We just have to keep tabs on the job. A lot of little problems keep cropping up.” He did not elaborate on that point. Meetze said that any delays will be the responsibility of the contractor. “The contractor assured us that he'll have it ready on time. If this thing is completed on time, then his part of the deal is fulfilled. Right now, that seems possible,” Meetze stated. If worse comes to worst, the decision will be made to work at night. He said that “It would have to be in a critical phase before we let men work overtime. That is very costly.” (See CONSTRUCTION, Page 12)

Kincaid Seeks Office For Student Counseling
By HARRIETT HODGES
News Editor

Career Service Director Randal R. Kincaid Jr. proposed the creation of a new office for student counseling in this week's meeting of the student Senate. Kincaid said that the new office would be part of the Student Counseling Center and thus the responsibility of William B. Hight. Functions of the office would include testing and counseling, direction of the career-service program, and summer internship placement, according to Kincaid. “I believe that Davidson has an obligation to aid students in vocational decisions. Students should have an opportunity to try out prospective careers,” he said.

Vince Rabil moved that the Senate support Kincaid's proposal. The motion was tabled until next week's meeting.

Senate parliamentarian Todd Eades introduced a resolution that the SGA encourage the Board of Trustees to accept the Spencer Commission Report's recommendations concerning requirements for faculty tenure. According to the report, formal religious requirements for members of the faculty and administration would be deleted. The Senate unanimously accepted Eades’ resolution.

The group passed an amendment to the Bylaws regarding the election of cheerleaders. Now male cheerleaders will be selected in tryouts rather than by popular vote. Also passed was an amendment to the Motor Vehicle Regulations which will lower the price of parking permits from $3 to $1 effective October 11. In addition, the group voted to authorize the business office to issue refunds of $2 to all students who purchased tickets prior to October 11.

Miles Ward and Todd Eades reported on psychological counseling in this week's meeting. “The Senate needs a committee to talk to Dr. Hall regularly to keep things straight between him and the SGA,” Ward said. He added that Hall will meet with the Senate later this term.

Blain Butner reported on the possibility of night exams. Butner said that there are many problems involved in night exams, including a lack of students to man the exam center.

Also in Tuesday's meeting, the Senate appointed Freshman Senator Julie Deck to the Senate Executive Committee and confirmed the appointment of Edgar Weir, Neal Lenhoff, and Brad Davis to the Residence Hall Council.