Dormitory AN ANALYSIS By ALEC HOON PHIL BISHOP

Dissension and contradictory opinions within the administration on the proposed construction of five new dormitories have reached an alarming state,
threatening the very construction of these dormitories. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. recently stated that he now favors a
delay in the construction of these dormitories. “I just do not see how we are satisfactorily going to finance the
dorms. Therefore, with the information I now possess, I would have to say that I favor a delay in dormitory
construction,” Spencer said. “This will probably necessitate a leveling off of the total enrollment at about 1200 students.”

Vol. LXIII, No. Nine

On the other hand, Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls feels that “new housing should be a top priority, perhaps
even more important than the new library.” Dean of Students Will Terry, a member of the Committee on Future Housing
whose job it was to study the need for and construction of new housing, agreed that the new dorms need
to be built. “I think Davidson's movement in the direction of the trustees’ goal of 1500 students by 1981 is
important and should go on,” he said.

The problem which these basic differences of opinion between the Committee on Future Housing and the president bring out is
that there seem to be jumbled lines of communication between the various people responsible for making the decisions.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

Davidsonian November 9, 1973

Sig Ep Decision To Bid Early Conflicts With College Self-Selection Schedule

Sigma Phi Epsilon, one of the off-campus national fraternities, decided in a meeting Tuesday to rush, bid, and pledge freshmen
the first week of winter term. This differs from the structured self-selection process on Patterson Court which is slated for
the sixth and seventh week of winter term.

Up until this time, the college administration and the Council of Social Organizations (which establishes the social policy for the
on-campus program) had assumed that Sig Ep bidding would be in accordance with the eating club schedule. The self-selection timetable
was set up last Spring by the Council of Social Organizations. At that time, Sig Ep representative Jim Coggin expressed
an intent to attempt to cooperate within the system's guidelines. However, since Sig Ep is a non-participating member on the
council, no definite commitment was ever made.

Notably, the only significant change is that Sig Ep bidding and pledging will occur at an earlier date. The Council’s
guidelines in no way would have affected an active rush by any group. Mitch Purvis, president of the Council of
Social Organizations, revealed that he was disappointed and felt that the Council was let down. Purvis recalled that last spring
the Council was created to get everyone together on rushing and bidding. The on-campus houses originally wanted self-selection to occur
at the beginning of the winter term. However, the general consensus among hall counselors was that selection of an eating
house or fraternity should occur in the spring term. The sixth and seventh week of winter term was set as
a compromise between the best interests of the houses and the freshmen.

Purvis noted that, with certain groups bidding earlier than scheduled, the freshman faces two “crisis periods.” First, the pressure of
deciding whether or not to accept a bid and then later pressures when confronted with the choice of self-selecting into
an eating house. Prior to last spring, the only organization controlling the on-campus eating system was the Patterson Court Council.
However, it excluded off-campus national fraternities. The Council was established to remedy that by involving all social groups. So, in
effect, it was a concession to the off-campus nationals. So far, the Council has dealt exclusively with the open house
and rush systems.

“The Council is working for the benefit of both the freshmen and the houses,” Purvis added. He expressed a need
for cooperation. “At least a gentleman’s agreement was made to work for at least a one-year period with us. I
feel that there was an acceptable agreement (by the Sig Eps) to work with us and they have backed out
of it,” Purvis affirmed.

Duncan Baker, Sig Ep chapter president, noted...that the abrupt change in policy was instigated to make the system "more compatible
with our pledge program." Bidding will be changed to the first part of the winter term since this is a
time at which "academic pressures are not as great as they would be later on so freshmen can better avail
themselves of the opportunity to get to know us," Baker remarked. He noted that the fraternity traditionally had a prolonged
pledge program which would have been restricted under the fixed schedule. Baker also commented that (See SIG EP, page 12)

Construction Uncertain

final decision. If there is in fact jumbled communication, then this needs to be rectified immediately so that a decision
satisfactory to all can be reached. This is complicated by the fact that the Architect, Paul Rudolph, has not yet
given the college a final projected figure on the costs, or even final drawings of the proposed structures. The planned
completion of the dorms is slated for the fall of 1975; but if decisions aren't made soon it is doubtful
that this deadline can possibly be met.

The roots of the problem lie in the financing of the dorms. If the college were to borrow money at
the current high interest rate to cover the costs, which up until now it was assumed the college would have
to do since no other viable alternative had surfaced, then the college would either have to charge a much higher
room rent to live in the new dorms or spread the cost by raising all room rents on campus. Even
in this, there has been disagreement. Nicholls maintains that "the highest figure the Future Housing Committee discussed was $700 per
student if the money was repaid solely by the room rents of the inhabitants of the new dorms." Yet Spencer
has referred to a sum of $900-$1000 under the same circumstances. (See DORMS, page 12)

(Staff photo by Lott)

THE SIGHT OF FUTURE GLORIES

If the college can get the finances worked out, construction of five new dorms to house 250 students will begin
within the next year on this land adjacent to the fraternity court.

Obstruction In Governance Examined

AN ANALYSIS By ALEC HOON TODD EADES

The whole impetus behind the movement for the reform of the present governance system is rapidly coming to a halt
due to a fundamental pre-relation on jurisdiction over governance. The only thing the faculty seem to agree on is to
disagree with any change to abolish their sole final jurisdiction in matters of educational policy. The educational program and policy
of the college has been defined and includes the determination of curriculum requirements, the institution and determination of foreign study
and research, the determination of policy regarding the selection of library materials, the awarding of degrees including honorary degrees, the
establishment and regulation of academic departments, the oversight of academic and scholarly lectures, cultural programs initiated by academic departments, physical
education, and the determination of academic minimum standards for the admission of students.

The students don’t know what they want or can expect in the way of reform. It is even uncertain what
the student representatives themselves on the committee think. The administration, while supporting much of the student position, is hesitant to
forward any proposal to the trustees for a final decision which does not have the support of the faculty. In
this quagmire of political motives and uncertain opinions, what has happened to the reform itself? This is difficult to ascertain
because of the secrecy which surrounds the whole committee process. No one wants to voice publicly the alternatives which the
committee has under construction. Several things seem to have been resolved, but disagreements remain.

For example, it has been generally agreed that only the president of the SGA will be allowed to attend, but
not vote in, any faculty meeting (under whatever name the body is given), helping to make the final decisions on
educational policy. The faculty, led by their committee representatives, Professors Abernathy, McKelway, and MacCormac, have held to their basic credo
that students have no business in any such involvement. Their feeling seems to be to allow two students to continue
to attend, participate, and vote in the committee. However, beyond the mere presence (See OBSTRUCTION, page 12)
