IMAC Report: Regular Season Ends, 16 Teams In Playoffs

By BUCKY and CAPT. AMERICA

The IMAC regular season ended last Tuesday with tournament play beginning Wednesday for League A and Thursday for League B.
The top eight teams for each division in League A are in the tourney, while the top four division teams
in League B are still alive.

In League B, there was some last-minute scrambling in the standings, while a few of the worst games of the
year were being played. In a crucial game, Emanon #2 defeated McCanns to put both teams at 8-1 and a
tie for first place in the second division. The game itself was fairly rough, according to observers, with a couple
of fights almost developing. Maybe the winners of the fights will decide the top seed in Division 2.

The next best record belongs to the freshman team known as the Banging Cannoneers, who won a 6-3 slate. A
well-rounded team, they could be a surprise in the tourney. Sentelle I and 2nd Belk are both tied for the
last tourney spot with 5-4 marks. Which of the teams will be in the post-season play was not yet determined
at press time.

S-I participated in one of the worst games ever seen in IMAC. Against last-place Bruno's Bunch, S-I unmercifully rolled up
a 50-point win by pressing the entire game. No one can really tell what they were trying to prove against
the outclassed, outmanned Bunch. And no one really cares if they did it or not. It was the worst game
of the year according to the CA and Buck ratings.

In Division 1 of the fun league, the S-3 Wonders wound up as the only undefeated team in League B.
Coach Kirk "Honeycombe" Combe's chargers whipped through their schedule and finished up their season by defeating the Watts i-B Wimps.
The number two team in the division is the Several Species group. Their 9-1 record is one of the better
in the league as their only loss came to S-3.

Three teams are tied for third place in Division 2. PDT #4, Grey House, and F&M #2 are all at
7-3, and how IMAC will decide the playoff representatives remains to be seen.

In League A, there were some upsets in Division 1 as the top eight teams vied for the playoff spots.
The Cleveland Indians finished at 11-0 as they defeated F&M #1 and Emanon #1 to tone up for the tourney.
PD G #1 finished at 9-2 while both F&M #1 and Emanon tied for third with 8-3 records. F&M could
have finished at 9-2 but they were upset by the ever-dangerous Soul Patrol. The SAE #1 team also moves into
the tourney with a fine 7-4 slate. The Soul Patrol is the giant killer of the tourney as they round
out the Division 1 field along with PDT #2 and PDT #3. The Delts are definitely in competition; one of
them is bound to win. Good luck.

Division 2 of League A stayed fairly stable through the year. The Pikas finished on top at 11-0. A battle
between them and the Tribe seems destined for the final game. PDT #1 finished at 10-1, their only loss.

Sailors Look To Spring Regattas For Victories

By JOHN McELVEEN

The Davidson Sailing Team is looking forward to a much better showing in the upcoming Spring Regatta. Due to the
loss of two senior sailors, Alan Lundy and Dan Johnston, and the excursion of Jimmy Hunter to France, Commodore Daryl
Douglas was left with a relatively inexperienced team last fall. Consequently, the fall season was, record-wise, unimpressive. However, according to
Douglas, “it achieved its purpose in that it gave experience to the inexperienced shippers.”

Douglas now commands a team with considerably more depth and experience. At the first organizational meeting, officers were elected and
plans made for the upcoming season. “This was one of the largest turnouts," commented Douglas. “There are a lot of
interested freshmen.”

“We went into the fall season,” continued Daryl, “hoping to be competitive within our sailing conference. This spring we've got
the potential to win—and we're going to work at it.”

ABORTION INFORMATION
ABORTION GUIDANCE

An abortion can be arranged within 24 hours and you can return home the same day you leave! CALL TOLL
FREE (800) 523-4436

A Non-Profit Agency

Rent Furniture
MetroLease

ERRORITE™ bookstorescoming to the leaders. They also have to be considered as pre-tourney favorites. The SPE's at 9-2 and the
Old Men at 8-3 are still possibilities although they have not contested this year. US has an explosive scorer in
Sam Upchurch, but that is about it. Still, they were 7-4 this year. PAX A is 6-5 and they fill
out the tourney with Wizardry and the Deals, both 4-7. The tournament will be played through Saturday so drop over
and see some good basketball. C.A. and Buck see the Indians winning the League crown with a close win over
the Pikas. In League B, it looks like the freshman wonders from S-3. Also, there will be some great refereeing
in the tourney with the regular season refs closing the job. If the players yelled a lot during the regular
season, wait until these games start rolling around. Come and watch some exciting verbal battles along with some pretty good
basketball.

C.A. and Young Buck's Quiz: What has ten legs and lives in the cellar?
Answer: Watts I-A and I-B Wimps.

The Davidsonian
March 2, 1973
Page Eleven

MAC Season Highlight: Down memory lane with C.A. and Young Buck: We will always remember the time Jim Sitterson, wimpiest
of the Watts I-A Wimps, pulled a switchblade on Young Buck for calling a traveling violation on him. How could
we forget the KA’s only victory. When was that, anyhow? And of course the ATO’s 0-11 season. How could anyone
be winless in the same league with them?

With the Academy Awards coming up, C.A. and Bucky are giving their own awards, the Golden Wiennies.
Best Name Award — Look Kat Mee
Hot Collar Award — John "Duke" Simms
Best Ref — Young Buck in a good mood
Worst Ref — Young Buck in a bad mood
Wimpiest Team in League A — Guess Who? A
Wimpiest Team in League B — Guess Who? B
Worst Coach of the Year — Mike Sorrentino, leader of Bruno’s Bunch
Worst Fans — The fraternity of Sigma Phi Ep-
Best Performance by an Actor — A. Lankenhau of F&M for his great role in, "Where’s the Foul Ref?"
And finally, our last and most coveted Golden Wiennie goes to John Yeoman for his role as

If a steady salary of $400 a month and paid-up tuition will help you continue your professional training, the scholarships
just made possible by the Uniformed Services Health Professions Revitalization Act of 1972 deserve your close attention. Because if you
are now in a medical, osteopathic, dental, veterinary, podiatry, or optometry school, or are working toward a PhD in Clinical
Psychology, you may qualify. We make it easy for you to complete your studies. You're commissioned as an officer as
soon as you enter the program, but remain in student status until graduation. And, during each year you will be
on active duty (with extra pay) for 45 days. Naturally, if your academic schedule requires that you remain on campus,
you stay on campus — and still receive your active duty pay. Active duty requirements are fair. Basically, you serve
one year as a commissioned officer for each year you've participated in the program, with a two-year minimum. You may
apply for a scholarship with either the Army, Navy or Air Force, and know that upon entering active duty you'll
have rank and duties in keeping with your professional training. The life’s work you've chosen for yourself requires long, hard,
expensive training. Now we are in a position to give you some help. Mail in the coupon at your earliest
convenience for more detailed information.

Box A
Universal City, Texas 78148

I desire information for the following program:
Army
Navy
Air Force
Medical
Osteopathic
Dental
Veterinary
Podiatry
Optometry
Clinical Psychology
Other (Please specify).

Name (please print)
Soc. Sec. #
Address
City
State
Zip
Enrolled at (School)
To graduate in (Month) (Year) (Degree)
Date of birth (Month) (Day) (Year)

Podiatry not available in Air Force Program.
