Page Ten May 4, 1973 The Davidsonian

Minor Sports Feel Monetary Squeeze

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

(Ed. Note: This is the fourth in the series concerning Davidson's crisis in athletics. It deals with the "minor" sports
program here. Though this term will be used throughout the ensuing article, the sports staff does not consider any sport
to be inferior to another as we try to provide adequate coverage for all athletic competition at Davidson. This story
will try to analyze the role of minor sports in Davidson's total athletic picture, as well as the financial difficulty
that they are facing.)

There seems to be a problem arising in Davidson athletics which the financial wizards of this college are either ignoring
with the hope that no one will notice it, or forgetting with the total lack of money to solve it.
Essentially, the problem is that very few of the sports at Davidson have enough money to compete in high-grade competition.

Davidson fields 10 minor sports, i.e., sports which receive no scholarship aid. These include tennis, track, golf, baseball, wrestling, swimming,
soccer, sailing, rifling, and cross country. There are a great many student-athletes who participate in these activities every year. At
this point, most of these teams have very little money to maintain a decent schedule, much less provide for other
necessary facilities. Consider the following five sports to be a reasonable cross-section of these sports in the ensuing analysis: tennis,
track, soccer, baseball, and sailing.

Jeff Frank, the recently appointed head tennis coach, explained part of the situation from his viewpoint. "We are not going
to be able to compete in the Southern Conference much longer if we do not begin to put a little
more financial support into the program here," he said. "Scholarships are just one aspect of the problem. There are the
other expenses that we will feel a tight squeeze on."

On the scholarship issue, it was revealed that in the SC alone, five of the seven other member schools have
or are getting some scholarship aid for tennis. Furman has two and one-half scholarships, while William and Mary has two
or two and one-half, and The Citadel has some. East Carolina, which grants aid in almost all of their other
varsity sports, will have some very soon in tennis. The big concern of the conference is that Appalachian is working
with an almost unlimited supply of money as far as offering aid is concerned. "In two or three years, the
conference will be no more than a fight for second, since they will have so much money in tennis," sighed
Frank. "No one will be able to compete with them."

It is believed that the Mountaineers will have either seven or eight tennis players on scholarship aid next year. Frank
explained that when he played for the Cats, no one had scholarships except George Washington, who has since withdrawn from
the conference. But now "almost everyone has them."

"I think that ASU will be using the maximum number of scholarships allowed by the NCAA and the conference in
all sports," Frank said. "There will definitely be a drastic change in the conference." Frank is not even sure that
two scholarships for the Cats will be enough to keep pace with Appalachian. But it does seem high time that
the trustees and administration see fit to put money where it is direly needed, before it is too late and
Davidson is too far behind.

"We already face problems in other areas," claimed Frank. He noted the loss of two highly touted prospects. One went
to Princeton because he wanted the quality of an Ivy League education. Another is headed for a Tennessee school because
his family cannot afford the high costs of a Davidson education. So the problem keeps growing and growing, while the
college does very little to counter it.

Sterling Martin, head coach for track and cross country, finds the problem to be very "expensive." "We have 30 to
35 people to transport to and from meets," he said. "Our money allotted for expenses ($3039) helps, but it leaves
little room for any scholarships. "If we went all out on our facilities, then I think it would be impressive
enough to get some quality track men to Davidson," he said. A new track is a big possibility, since the
J. P. Stevens company may use Davidson as a test site for a newly developed all-weather track. "This would be
great," explained Martin. "It would be a big recruiting help since almost all the other schools have some sort of
all-weather track already. We need it also because we cannot host the SC Tournament without one."

He feels the equipment aspect of track is hurting too. The team gets about $1428 for this purpose. This will
hardly provide the team members with shoes and uniforms. The team has yet to get the money for a water
jump which is used in the steeplechase event. "It looks to me like if you aren't going to give a
guy a scholarship for playing, you could at least provide some good facilities for him," Martin stated. "I think we
could be competitive if we could just get enough money to get the facilities we need to attract performers. As
of now, we have no leeway whatsoever. We are stretched to the penny." He gave an example that he could
skimp on gas mileage only because some of the players drove for very little. "The costs of equipment alone are
going to put pressure on us; not just tennis either. We the sports will be hurt. Both Spalding and Wilson
have notified us recently of specific price hikes. Three other companies have told us they are raising prices too."creativity at
all,” he said. The team cannot schedule any new matches due to a lack of money. “When we want to
get a new opponent,” he continued, “we usually have to play them away the first time. We just don’t have
the money.” Martin went further to outline one possible way to get quality compensation to cover expenses. “Our budget is
just not keeping pace with the rising costs of equipment maintenance, much less the amounts that other schools are putting
into their programs,” he expressed.

William and Mary provides scholarship aid in track. It is no coincidence that they are the SC powerhouse in this
sport. Obviously, there is a great lack in the funding of track which adds considerably to the problem at hand.
Soccer has just acquired a new head coach in Chip Stone. At this time, Stone admits he does not know
too much about expenses, but has a few ideas. “We want to play 11 games next fall,” he said. “Six
of these will be away. The expenses for five of them will just about draw out all our expense allotment,”
which is roughly $2925. Stone said that he would like to expand the schedule to 14 games in 1974. It
looks like the budget would cover such an expansion. It would, however, be very close to the end. “Dr. Scott
told me when I took the job that I should not think about increasing the schedule very much," said Stone.
“What really bothers me is that if we should get a playoff bid from the NCAA, we probably would not
have the money to go.” If there would ever be something such as this occurring, it would probably be the
straw that would break the camel's back with regard to Davidson's athletic crisis.

Soccer would also have an equipment problem if they needed any emergency items. “I do not see any real problem
now,” said Stone. “But if we needed new uniforms or something, we would be in trouble. Our budget of $1135
for equipment just would not cover an emergency item.” He cited the costs of soccer balls, which run about $25
a piece. “They only last for about one year,” Stone commented. “If we get just seven or eight, that takes
quite a hunk from our allotment.” Stone sees no dire problem in the next year with regards to scholarships or
the like. But he too feels the bite of the rising costs of living, such as meals and lodging on
the road, as he plans his expense spendings.

In talking with members of the baseball team, it seems that they have to provide their own bats. There seems
to be a question now as to whether or not future players can afford to play sports if they can
afford the high costs of a Davidson education. The baseball expense budget ranges around $3800, while their equipment funds are
close to $2000. It seems highly probable that more money would be in order here. In addition, some of the
players have been approached by professional club representatives. With such quality players here now, it may be key to offer
some type of grant to keep more of them coming. If a program could be funded well enough to give
it an established reputation, then it could lure more quality players. Certainly, having players buy their own bats is not
following this philosophy.

Finally, Hallam Walker, coach of the sailing team, presented his views with regard to his sport. He began by saying
that the $1100 figure his team gets from the school goes “essentially for expenses such as travel, lodging and the
like.” He noted that the sailors let most of the upkeep go through the athletic business department. “We have an
adequate amount for expenses,” Walker said. “We have received some outside contributions which have helped a great deal.” Walker commented
that the boats and equipment the team has are in fair shape. “The team would be delighted to find some
way to get some new boats, though,” he expressed. “I think we have pretty good support from the college considering
it is a student-run sport, essentially,” Walker prompted. “We do not have too many problems. The boats show their age
(five or six years). But they get us through the races. New ones would be nice, though.”

So now the problem of a lack of money has been narrowed down to two things: equipment and expenses. Granted,
though, tennis and possibly soccer and baseball need scholarships. But as a general rule, all the sports need more money
for travel and other articles necessary for high-level competition, which is what the Southern Conference and the NCAA are all
about. This problem is out in the open now. The college is going to have to come to grips with
it and either alleviate the harm or explain why the priorities are being placed in the other direction. It seems
quite possible, from reviewing the past articles in this series, that a rearrangement in the athletic department's funding could end
this problem. There is going to be an increase in the amounts awarded to the minor sports next year, according
to C. David Cornell, vice president for finance and development. This should average about $1000 per sport. The question still
remains as to whether or not this will, in reality, help the problem in any significant way at all.

(Next Week: the concluding article in the series on Davidson's athletic crisis. It will outline a basic summary of what
this investigation has revealed and what alternatives lie ahead as the college tries to solve its crisis in athletics.)
