Reins Without O

The SGA Elections Board announced this week that Alec Hoon will become the new Editor-in-Chief of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Currently a Managing Editor of the paper, Hoon was unopposed for the editor position. A pre-med major, Hoon received the F.E. Grier Martin Award for excellence in journalism as a freshman reporter, and he is currently serving as a hall counselor. The editor-elect will assume his duties in approximately three weeks. While he plans no sweeping reforms in the paper, Hoon said he hopes to publish a newspaper of interest to all members of the college community.

“I hope to recruit a large number of reporters who exhibit wide and varied interests,” Hoon said. “This way we can broaden the appeal of the paper.”

Hoon views the role of THE DAVIDSONIAN on campus as a means of informing as well as shaping opinions of its readers. “Since the student government hasn't been able to express student concerns, it is vitally important that THE DAVIDSONIAN express a viewpoint that will get something done around here,” Hoon said. “We've got to show the administration and the faculty that students are aware of the college's priorities,” he said. “We've also got to show them students are responsible.”

Hoon said his editorial policy will be one of progressivism. He cited the new social system, graduate school preparation, subsidized athletics, and the academic curriculum as areas in which he plans to conduct investigations. The editor-elect also plans to continue the Outside Perspective column, the Entertainment column, and periodic special reports that are current features of the paper.

“I hope to maintain the same high standards that the current editor, Rich Wilson, has set,” Hoon said. “Through his efforts, the paper has earned a good reputation and I hope to continue this trend.”

Hoon also hoped that the college community will respond by reading the paper, not simply perusing the headlines. “I'm not looking for agreement on issues,” he said. “I'm interested that people are informed.”

Hoon said he plans no major changes in either staff organization or in the format of the paper. He did, however, mention that he hopes the paper could begin to use some color photographs. As editor of the paper, Hoon said he hopes to stimulate the interest of the staff to put out a quality publication.

By BRUCE MALOY
Asst. Managing Editor

Three sophomores, Steve Smith, Jim Goodloe, and Bob Corlew, have filed for the post of SGA vice-president in Tuesday's election. The first to file, Bob Corlew, said that he did not envision any organizational changes in the Residence Hall Council, which is one of the major responsibilities of the vice-president. 

Opposition to professional soccer is possible. Delegating responsibilities and formulating general responsibilities, the editor makes or breaks the paper. Hoon indicated that he would improve the paper's coverage of sports. “We will have more in-depth reporting and better behind-the-scenes coverage,” he said. “There is a need for more coverage of the minor sports and intramurals because a great number of Davidson students are involved in them.”

Hoon also stated that the area of sports needs an investigator. The paper needs to inform the students and continue such a program. Hoon said that being a freshman hall counselor has made him more conscious of the poor social life at Davidson, especially for freshmen. Hoon will begin immediate preparations to name a staff.

“I would like to make it a more respected institution by providing the kind of leadership which it must have if it is going to accomplish anything,” said Corlew. Specifically, Corlew said that he wants to see more recreational facilities out in the dorms and more ice machines like the one in Belk. “I would also like for the Union Desk to be in touch with the college security personnel.”

Earle, Robinson Square Off For College Union Presidency

By ALEC HOON
Managing Editor

Sophomore Gray Robinson and junior Joe Earle have announced their intention to run for President of the College Union. Earle said that he was interested in “establishing the best possible programs for the Union, and in becoming more aware of what could be done on this campus in the way of Union activities.” Earle has...been involved with the Union since his freshman year when he was a member of the Social Council. During his sophomore year, he served as the first Publicity Chairman for the Union, and as a member of the Executive Board, as one of the two at-large members. This year he has added the jobs of being head of the Union Bar and Co-chairman of the 50's committee to his duties as a continuing member of the Social Council and the Executive Board. He indicated that he would "like to give people as much as possible for their money by putting more emphasis on the Union's co-curricular and social activities. I would like to see more programs like the 50's program which serve to give extended and cohesive entertainment over a long period of time (10 days)," he said. Earle concluded by saying that he felt that his "extensive experience and technical understanding of the operation of the Union" made him qualified for the job.

Robinson said that he was interested in the job because "the Union needs revitalization. The only activity that I can see going on is with the pinball and fussball games. We need to get people involved again in Union activities," he said. He stated that he wanted to make several specific improvements including getting more landmark films of an educational nature, bringing more good speakers who could, in addition to their formal lectures, meet on an informal basis with students, and obtaining a permit to sell beer on the campus. "And even if we were unable to obtain a beer license, I would like to make a better snack bar which offered more variety," he said. Robinson indicated that he felt it was a duty of the Union to present something every weekend, so that students would not pack up and leave because there was nothing to do on campus. "I think that I could do a good job as President of the Union because I've got some fresh ideas on what needs to be done here. I'm not tied down by the traditional approach to Union activities," he said.

(Raff photo by Goodman)

THE NEW EDITOR
Editor Alec Hoon examines page layout.

V-P Race Decides RHC Future

"How it takes students too long to get help if they need it," said Corlew. Asked why he felt qualified for the job, Corlew replied, "I've been in the Senate since my freshman year. I'm on the Senate's future of the Union Committee, secretary of the constitution and by-laws committee, and chairman of the elections committee."

Candidate Jim Goodloe feels that the RHC should be made a committee of the Senate instead of being a separate organization as it is now. "The dorm Senators would be on this committee. I feel that this would make them more responsible to the dorm residents and cut out some red tape," said Goodloe. "I'd also like for the Senate to have a voice in the appointment of the house managers, which is now done solely by the administration. Pressure," Goodloe continued, "should be brought on the administration to keep the dorms coed and not just fill Little up with girls when there are enough available."

Asked for his qualifications, Goodloe replied, "I've been active in the Senate, the APO bookstore, and I've had an active interest in seeing things in general get done."

Steve Smith has zeroed in on a coin-operated laundry and better recreational facilities for students as his main issues. "I think that students could save about $50 a year on their laundry with coin machines," said Smith. "Special attention must be given to finding new positions in the college for people that have been working in the laundry for a long time. I also feel that the traffic court and the RHC have a responsibility to do something about the parking situation," said Smith. "The RHC needs to pay special attention to freshmen and people who have to find their recreation on campus for the most part," he said. "I was on the dorm social council at Syracuse last year and I think that my experience there can help me to do something about the negative spirit towards the RHC and the SGA here," Smith said.