IMAC Sifts ‘The Good From The Bad’ By CAPTAIN AMERICA And NO BUCKY

The IMAC flickerball league, acting like a flour sifter, has just about finished sifting the good from the bad from the ugly. The ugly in this case being the squads that have forfeited themselves into oblivion. I am talking to you Em #2.

In Wednesday’s action, the Pikas, behind the Fran Tarkenton-Gene Washington combination of the IMAC, defeated the Tennis Bums’ erratic squad 34-18. QB Jimmy Boyd hit Lester Abberger for most of the afternoon, through the porous Bums’ defense. The Bums may be old but they more than make up for it by not being in shape.

PGD nipped R-I 9-3 in the annual Safety Bowl. (A safety is 3 points in flickerball). No, folks, there were no field goals between pine trees, just tough defense.

In one of the first biggies of the year, the rambunctious Cleveland Indians fell before the onslaught of Peyton Prospere’s SAE #1 squad, 33-18. Rumor has it that the Tribe was just “one toke over the line.”

On Thursday a prophecy was fulfilled. C-III, named by C.A. earlier as the “Turkeys of the year”...

Netters Rebuild (Continued from page 10)

Durham is also one of the returning veterans from last year’s squad. Frank has been pleased with the work he has done and mentioned that he played at the number five spot two years ago and won the conference title.

Frank feels that Scott Dimon has had a very good fall practice and is playing well as a steady performer. Jim Dorsett, who saw some doubles action last season, is also back for the Cats. Two freshmen have also made the team for the coming year. They are Edward Patton and Steve Holman. Frank expects both of them to see some action and gain some experience which will be especially helpful next year.

“They have a lot of potential,” he commented. “But they lack experience.”

Frank also thinks that the doubles competition does not look nearly as strong this season as in past years. “We may not be able to win the doubles as much as we would like,” Frank explained. “As of now there is really no way to tell who will even be playing these positions.”

The Cats appear to have lost their top-heavy look from last season, when they had tremendous strength in the top portion of the order. Frank instead sees that they will be deep in the three through six spots with quite a few players who could play in this range.

The key portion of the season will come on April 16 and 17 when the Cats...

INVESTORS IN MUTUAL INVESTING FOUNDATION'S PROSPECTUS

For your free copy, with no obligation, contact the local representative of:

HERITAGE SECURITIES, INC.
246 N High St.
Columbus, Ohio
Associated with Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co.
Home Office: Columbus, Ohio

Represented by:
Robert T. Hoyle
125 N. Main St.
Davidson, N.C. 28036
Phone 892-0569

SOME FACTS FOR...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

have back-to-back home matches with Appalachian and Furman, respectively. Along with their sister hall C-IV, held true to form by getting mulched by powerful EM #1 60-0 in the biggest fiasco of the young season. Oh yes, C-IV also happens to be 0-4. Ta-da. I can’t seem to pick the winners around here but the losers sure are easy to find. The SPE’s, on the rebound, buoyed by their forfeit win over SAE #2, decided to wreak havoc upon the mangy Altoona Aardvarks (AA’s) as they rained TD’s on Randy Wag’s boys 46-0. Oh, the ATO’s have graced the column once more. And once more it is because they got kicked. The Main Gozinyas are the perpetrators of this chemical assault as they mugged the worse-than-useless O’s 55-0. ATO’s spokesman Bob Milks had this to say: “They must have had a hundred cans of beer out there!” Keep pounding that Bud, Gozinyas. In other Thursday action, Miles Glorious defeated the Student Union skidding Delts 19-14. Although Pete Celantano’s prediction of a shutout did not hold true, the MG's did play a fine game. Monday’s action was rained out due to a premature appearance of the Davidson monsoons. The rain either thought it was winter or came in late for the weekly weekend rainstorm. Anyhow, Tuesday the powerful KA’s took a forfeit win over R-I. In other Tuesday action, SAE No. 1 finished on top of League IV at 4-0 as they crushed the Wimpettes Plus, 54-12. How the WP’s managed to score is a mystery to ponder. The appearance of the “Clinton” Flash was also noted, as the Tennis Bums picked up a strange-looking tall fellow and Howard Arbuckle. The Bums then proceeded to shred C-IV, 63-19. Of course, the Bums thought they were getting close to Thanksgiving a little early as they plucked the C-IV turkeys.

QUIPS & CRANKS...

Underclassmen Photos Re-make Freshmen, Sophomores, & Juniors for those who receive notice by mail—plus anyone who could not make the previous date Smith Studios

C. A. is a little mystified, but happy over the emergence of freshman power C-I. They finished their first half of the season at a clear 4-0 mark as they niched SAE No. 2. They have only allowed 33 pts. in four games. Definitely a team effort that should be applauded and recognized. No. 1 is Emanon at 3-0, followed closely by R-2 at 2-0. League 2 shows surprising results. C-I finishing on top at 4-0, followed by the SPE’s at 2-2. The Fairies lead League 3 at 3-0 while the Pikas have finished just behind them at 3-1. SAE No. 1 finishes at 4-0 with PGD at 2-1 to cap League IV. League 5 rounds it out with the KA’s at 3-0 and the MG’s at 3-1. A C.A. congratulation to Kurt Goodhouse and Phil Safriet for winning the horseshoe tourney. Two freshmen no less. Horseshoes? Whoopee!