SNOW (Staff photo by Goodman) This is a picture of downtown Davidson covered with snow.

Nid's Tongue Scorched, Mott No Longer Exists

I, the Masked Nid, am writing this time the calumny because Mott, poor the Wopple, he is not so good lately. You know, maybe because of what he did for me with the King Kudzu some time ago last postnight when he found out that they didn’t give me back everything they took away when they sent me, you remember, maybe to the Phantom Zone and I don't exist no more.

Anyway, my friend Mott, he knew me before I went over to Iberia, and me and him, we are the Founding Fathers of the Aviarial Bird and Aardvark Watching Society and Marching Band, which you people don't know about and now will please forget about or else, which is a very secretive society except for the fiesta we began some years ago without anybody knowing. You remember it maybe; we call it Christmas. But no matter.

Anyway, then I went over to Iberia, which is why I came back sounding so funny since I burned my tongue on a taco, and this calumny, she doesn't come out right because I have to use a typewriter I brought back with me that writes only in Iberian, which is kind of Spanish Yiddish. I don't know, you maybe should ask Rogerson; he'll tell you. But everything was okay when I was over there except that most everybody was shooting each other, but I had with me my Davidsoniana book on “Wound Ballistics" (you look in that room, you find it), so I learned a lot anyway.

But everything was okay when I tried to come back. You know, the USA gave me my visa okay, and I came back here, but King Kudzu told me I wasn't here, you know, like I sank in the ocean and didn't exist anymore. He showed me this blank paper and said, “This is your transcript and it’s nothing, so you don't exist, you catch on?" Well, so then I was scared because I never not existed before, but Mott wrote about it and Numb Elroy helped, and then they found that somebody, one of King Kudzu's friends, had been using my transcript for wallpaper or something.

So now they think that everything is okay, but then I found out that the study I did isn't okay because I did ten things and they said I could only do nine, so they gave me credit for eight. Right? Anyhow, so Mott found out about it and he went last postnight to Numb Elroy and asked if there was precedence, you know, history for this kind of Kudzu thing happening, and Numb Elroy looked it up in the “Bluebook of Davidashire” and found out about Longterm Looey.

Longterm Looey came to Davidson in 1897, you know, from High School Number One in the Country with a 5.76 average on a scale of 4.0, and he was an eager-beaver, so he worked hard and took seven courses a term, so he finished everything in less than two years. But then they told him he made a mistake. He couldn't do that; he was too far ahead. So he couldn't graduate until he caught down. So since then, Longterm Looey worked as hard as he could at not working because the less he did, the sooner he could graduate. So he got his terms planned out so for the first two terms he did nothing, and then he did less the third term. But it was hard to find enough courses not to take. He had already not taken all the courses there were, so there were none left for him not to take, so he just crouched in a corner of the computer room thinking about nothing till his ears steamed.

So when Mott found this out, he went to King Kudzu (a big mistake that) and ranted and railed, but Kudzu just rattled his leaves and laughed. Then he told Mott that the money people figured out that he (Mott) didn't exist either. Because they were supposed to send Mott a notice for Mott to ask them for money, you know, but they couldn't find his post office box, so they figured he didn't exist, so they scratched his name off the Existent List. So if he didn't exist for his junior year, he didn’t exist his senior year, right?

So now Mott, he doesn't feel so good. He’s been going around digging up proof that he’s real, you know? So he’s got a list now of all the Mott things that are obviously named for him. He’s got a book now called “Motts in History and Legend.” So if you drive by Harry and Clara Mott's house or read about Joe Christmas getting caught in Mottstown or buy Mott's Clamato Juice or eat matzo balls, please tell him so he can add it to his list. He doesn't feel so good and it’s affecting his skin. He’s all mottled.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

The Davidsonian - March 2, 1973

FACULTY COLUMN

Page Five

Self-Made Citizens Laud Nixon Efforts

By E. F. Patterson

(Editor's Note: This column is the first in a series written by Davidson professors. The subject of the column is, and will continue to be, that of the professor's choosing. We would encourage all faculty interested in contributing to contact anyone on THE DAVIDSONIAN staff.)be commended for his resolve to return this country to a situation where individualism and laissez-faire prevail, one where “in our own lives let each of us ask—not just what will government do for me, but what can I do for myself.” Every self-made person—and that includes everyone not on welfare—will surely applaud Mr. Nixon's resolve and pledge full support for his efforts. In line with carrying out this resolve, the self-made majority will insist that all welfare payments be ended immediately, for this income obviously does not arise from what the welfare recipients have done for themselves. To be fair—and the self-made majority surely wants to be fair—they will also insist that all direct and indirect government subsidies to individuals and corporations be ended—estimated by the Joint Economic Committee of Congress to be $63 billion in 1970. They may want to insist further that Penn-Central, Lockheed, Litton, et al., be required to return the recent special payments the companies have received from the Federal government, amounting to several hundred million dollars. In case someone may consider this latter demand to be an unfair and harsh burden on these poor, on-the-verge of bankruptcy firms, it can be balanced by demanding that past welfare payments be returned also. There may be some, hopefully only a very few, among the self-made majority who may feel that this last action is a tiny bit too harsh. One can rest assured that before these weak sentiments produce any lasting traumatic effects on these individuals so as to prevent the action, learned scholars will produce articles and books to justify the action with ample supporting evidence from the Bible, the Koran, the Upanishads, etc. The self-made majority will undoubtedly want the conditions restored that were considered essential for individualism and laissez-faire to function properly to ensure that everyone receives his just desserts. Among these conditions, as set forth by the philosophers of laissez-faire—John Locke, Adam Smith, et al.,—were equality and individual action, as opposed to collective action. The Federal government, therefore, will have to bring about an equal distribution of income and property and abolish such institutions as the corporate form of business enterprise and the trade union, for these latter enable results to be obtained through collective action that could not be secured if done as individuals. One hopes that the self-made majority will not be deterred by any sentimental appeals from the welfare recipients or the recipients’ namby-pamby, ‘do-gooder’ spokesmen—the latter have been thoroughly discredited by their actions against the Vietnam War which, for four years, prevented Mr. Nixon from achieving “peace with honor”—but will demand that Mr. Nixon carry his noble resolve to its logical and final conclusion. A few weaker souls may perish, but the self-made majority can dismiss these cases from their minds by considering how the morals and character of those who survive will be improved and strengthened.

Dollar Used To Purge Campus, Speedy End To College Loans

To the Editor:

It is indeed time to “Come Home America!” My reason for writing this letter is that I feel that I must inform those of you who have not yet realized it, that for the first time in our politically-conscious lives we no longer have a Vietnam war issue. In response to this absence of a foreign policy rallying standard, the cry has gone out to bring our concerns home, a cause which has my full support. However, in contrast to our previously unselfish and humanitarian stands, I would suggest that we indeed bring our concerns all the way home right to our own little college and our own little wallets. In last week's DAVIDSONIAN, you may be aware of recent developments in Washington regarding the new budget. Now that we, the students of America, are no longer being removed from the campus by power of the Selective Service System, the “Almighty Dollar” will now be employed to purge our campuses. The new budget proposals of our benevolent leader include among other things, three major cutbacks in federal money for college purposes. (These cutbacks are necessary for the increase which will be made in building bigger and better bombs with which we are to maintain a just and honorable peace.) First, monies for college facility construction loans have been frozen. This means that our new dorms are likely of poorer quality and later in Secondly, monies have been cut to federal programs which provide funds for assistance to minority students. I for one, like many of my colleagues, are in full support of the demands of the BSC among which is the proposal to bring more blacks to Davidson. Unfortunately, since it is a regrettable sociological fact that minority groups ft ine auase endian someone is going to feel a financial aid pinch. But the best has been saved for last. That financial aid pinch, which you all know will be felt by middle class students, has been further complicated. Those of you reading this, check around and see how many students are on Direct Student Loans. Yes, friends, money for that program has also been cut. So friends, if by now you are sufficiently incensed, why not dash a quick letter to your congressman? He may not listen, but at least you will be participating in that great democratic process that, after our protests, did indeed bring a “speedy end to that conflict in S. E. Asia.”

Chuck Harman ‘75
Davidson College