The Vol. LXIII, No. Eight Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students November 2, 1973

Trustees Consider Housing, Union Plans
By MICHAEL TANNER
Executive Editor

At last week’s meeting of the Board of Trustees, plans for the location of union facilities and for future student housing were discussed, in addition to the attention given to the question of athletics. The Building and Grounds Committee of the board approved the renovation of Grey Library for use as the new Student Union. It is hoped that the conversion work will begin as soon as the books are transferred to the new Little Library, but before the nature and scope of any such work can be determined, costs are to be given further study. The Finance and Management Committee (FMC) will present cost figures for the various renovation alternatives before it will be decided what specifically will be done.

Gridders Resigned To Desubsidization
By TOM BRUCE
Associate Editor

Most members of the football team at Davidson favored a change in the football program, but very few are completely satisfied with the Trustee-approved plan to de-subsidize football and revamp schedules to accommodate less challenging schools.

“Something had to be done about the odds we were facing when we went out on the field,” stated Co-captain Eddie Williamson. “It was a case of thirty scholarships pitted against one hundred or more.”

“I would not have had the chance to come to Davidson if we had not had subsidized football when I was applying to colleges. I feel like we may lose some players to schools that offer scholarships, and this saddens me.” Williamson remarked that he was especially upset about some of the reasons for desub-

Puckett Campaign

A campaign for funds is currently underway to found an endowed professorship at Davidson as a memorial to W. Olin Puckett. Donald L. Winston, Director of Development, disclosed that $210,000 has been raised thus far. The drive will hopefully be concluded by June, he indicated. Five percent interest from the ultimate goal of $500,000 would provide an annual income of $25,000. This would finance the salary and teaching needs of an outstanding biology teacher who would also be an integral part of Davidson's pre-medical team. The basis of the campaign is a committee of 50 doctors who are in the process of soliciting their medical colleagues. This is the first time Davidson College has asked its medical alumni to support a program which will directly benefit the medical sciences.

W. Olin Puckett was a well-known and respected professor of biology at Davidson. Upon his retirement in 1970, he had also been the guiding light of the pre-medical program for 24 years.

“I’m aware that some people believe that we will have to sacrifice academic standards if we emphasize football, but this attitude is inconsistent with facts. This prejudice is the same as that shown to certain ethnic groups or toward people from different places in the country that have received bad treatment.”

Junior David Harper saw the change in positive terms, but he admitted that he would have preferred increasing the support given to football. “The odds we've had for the past couple of years have been sort of unrealistic,” said Harper, “we need to start the season off at more equal terms.”

“During the past few games, I have been very encouraged about our program. I only hope that the rug isn't being pulled out from underneath us.”

Most of the players who were questioned said that the most glaring problem to confront the new program will be recruitment. Walker and Hesterberg were both skeptical about the feasibility of reducing costs by cutting grants to football players. They maintained that many major costs, such as transportation, would not be changed by the trustee decision.

Senior Mike Harding saw the decision somewhat more optimistically than did most of his teammates. “What it means is simply this: in two years' time Davidson will be playing a winning football season, and for Coach Fagg, this factor probably can’t be overestimated. Coach Fagg is looking forward to it in a special way. Not many people would have stuck with Davidson through all that he has. He really wants to win.”

Perhaps the overall decision of the team is best summed up by John Webel. “It really wasn't fair to anyone to keep on the way we were, so a change was for the best. You can look at the change in two ways: we'll lose certain athletes who would have been attracted by the money grants, but we'll gain support from other prospects and the student body who will be much more enthusiastic toward the sport when they can cheer for a winning team.”

College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. said, “We won't know what proposals are practical until we get the results of the cost study.”Concerning the module-unit student housing, trustee action was postponed until the February meeting. It was decided that finance problems existed in the construction and maintenance of the proposed units. The administration will review several alternatives for the financing of the living units and will recommend a course of action to the FMC in February. The trustees will screen the recommendations and decide how the project is to be approached at their next meeting. Spencer listed several options for the financing of the housing. They are as follows: 

1) The college would borrow money (at a high interest rate) and repay this by charging a high rent for the constructed housing.
2) The college would borrow money (again at a high interest rate) and repay it by raising the rent of all rooms on campus.
3) The college would encourage outside developers to build housing facilities off campus to alleviate the strain on the dormitories.
4) The college would decide to scrap the module-unit living concept and construct a cheaper facility, probably something similar to the present dormitories.

“It’s the administration's job to research and present these possibilities as well as the respective costs to the board in February,” Spencer said.

Other action last week centered around faculty evaluation. The faculty presented its system for self-evaluation to the Educational and Executive Committees for review, approval, and modification, if necessary. These committees of the board will deliver their comments in February. The faculty suggested that the administration should also devise a system for self-evaluation. In response to this, the Executive Committee of the board asked Spencer and Chairman of the Board Warner Hall to formulate such a system to submit in February.

By PHILLIP BISHOP
Contributing Editor

Davidson's pre-medical program is on the move. But no one seems willing to say where or how fast it’s moving. The pre-medical committee is in the midst of reorganization. Its membership has been increased from six to 12 faculty members, and each pre-med student will be assigned to one advisor. When asked about the reorganization, pre-medical advisor James M. Fredericksen was evasive and reluctant to say anything about the progress of the new pre-med committee. Professor of Biology Donald L. Kimmel Jr., author of a 1972 report which recommended restructuring Davidson's pre-medical program, said pre-med counseling in the past has been inadequate. “The committee didn’t advise and the chairman had too many people to advise,” said Kimmel of the old pre-med program. Expansion of the committee will hopefully eliminate the long lines of pre-meds which used to wait outside the door of Fredericksen’s office. Fredericksen said he would have liked to reserve comment until the new program was “operational,” which he said could be as long as a year.

Staff photo by Lott
Pre-medical advisor James M. Fredericksen was reluctant to comment on the recent shuffle in the pre-med committee. The committee has been increased from six to twelve members and each pre-med student will be assigned to one advisor.

Pre-Med Program Reorganizes To Face Stiffer Competition

When pressed for comment, Fredericksen showed little enthusiasm for the reforms. “The whole thing is still nebulous and we're feeling our way,” he said. Fredericksen talked most about improving the pre-medical advising for freshmen and sophomores. “The junior year is kind of late in the day to be looking for an alternative to medical school,” said Fredericksen, who has been advising pre-meds for 25 years. A very important part of pre-med advising, he said, is helping the person on the borderline of acceptance to medical school. The pre-med committee members will act as adjunct advisors to the freshman advisors. This should help the student decide early whether he has a chance to be admitted to medical school, Fredericksen explained. Fredericksen had little to say about improvements in the pre-med curriculum, a point Kimmel felt should receive attention. Kimmel said courses essential for the pre-med like biochemistry, physiology, and vertebrate morphology, should be offered as a sequence. Pre-med students are often wary of non-science courses which might lower their grade-point averages. “So many times students use the flexibility to take courses which will influence the GPA,” Kimmel pointed out. Kimmel also underlined the importance of helping the borderline pre-med who has little chance of getting into med school. According to Fredericksen, information for pre-medical students about allied life science fields will be collected in a pamphlet, but publication has been temporarily delayed.

(See PRE-MED, page 3)

OPEN END

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. will explain the trustee's decision on athletics and suggest ways this decision will be implemented at an Open End Monday, Nov. 5, at 10 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the Union. Spencer will answer questions about athletics or other campus issues. All members of the college community are invited and encouraged to attend.