MILES WARD
The Davidsonian
November 2, 1973

Five Indefatigable Coach Breathes Loyalty

Dave Fagg is a different breed of Wildcat. He lives and breathes Davidson football twenty-four hours a day. Victories have been few for Fagg as head coach. Last year it was three; so far this year it is one win. The Charlotte Observer seems to think that Fagg has lost his most important game. It came last Friday when Davidson’s Trustees voted to discontinue football subsidies. Columnist Bob Quincy compared the move to Russian roulette. Observer Sportswriter Will Parish asked if it was unfair.

Anyone who thinks Fagg is down for the count or bitter at that decision is badly misinformed. He has known for years that the move was coming. He has spoken his peace to the president and the trustees. And right now he completely supports what Davidson has done.

Coach Fagg hasn't always thought this way. No coach in his right mind would want to desubsidize a team which had won the Conference Championship in 1969. However, things have changed in four years and Fagg is ready to take on a different challenge: football on a less competitive schedule.

Now Coach Fagg isn’t inclined to look at things as unfair, but they may be. It may be unfair to make a major policy change when the coach is out of town. It is manifestly unfair to let the news trickle down to him second or third hand. There is a tendency here to do things this way. A few years back when the administration took over offices and classrooms on the first floor of Chambers, the department involved read it first in THE DAVIDSONIAN. Unfair? Without doubt. But it's the status quo.

Parrish inquired whether leaving football in the lurch is unfair. Is it unfair to cut scholarships, deemphasize the program, and still play five conference teams? No one knows the answers right now. Much depends on the attitudes of the conference to what Davidson has done. We will have to wait and see. There have been misunderstandings by both sides, administration and football staff. But the question of fairness comes from outside.

For Fagg, you see, may be the most positive man in America. Every move he makes is directed toward some great goal. He radiates encouragement.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Inside Jobs Plague

ARA Slater, Lighting Destroys Solitude

To the Editor:

I would like to relate an incident which occurred last Friday, Oct. 19. My purposes are two-fold: 1) to show that ARA Slater is truly being ripped off, but not necessarily by students, and 2) to show that the presence of ‘foreigners’ on the Davidson campus is indeed hurting it.

I was walking down to Patterson Court from Belk dormitory and I noticed three “townees” (to be more specific-three black youths) walking away from the side door of Richards House, eating food. A moment later, another youth who works in the Richards House kitchen came out the door and called back the 3 youths who were leaving and gave them a couple of hamburgers and cokes. The three youths then walked away. Besides not paying for these hamburgers and cokes, one would assume that they had not paid for the food that they were originally eating.

Immediately after seeing this incident, I saw Wendell Sherrill, one of Davidson's security men, and asked him about it. He had also seen the three youths and he said that he had seen them every night, especially around Richards House. I asked him why he did not ask them to leave the campus and he replied that he had already asked them to stay away but that they kept coming back. He said that he was not given the authority to use force to keep them off the campus.

This points to the fact that the college needs to place tighter restrictions on the freedom of “foreigners” around the campus. This would mean giving the security men more authority and power to keep youths, such as the ones mentioned above, from coming on campus. This policy of tighter restrictions, along with other security measures such as increased lighting, would greatly increase the safety of students and their possessions and would help prevent future thievery and rape on the campus.

In reference to the ripping off of Slater food, I do not pretend to see this one incident of stealing as the source of all of Slater’s troubles, but it is definitely one of the problems and perhaps a major one.

Forrest Flaniken
Davidson College '76

To the Editor:

This letter may seem absurd to a lot of people here, but to the people who have walked back behind the gym on the road which passes the soccer field, my complaint will seem understandable. I’ve been walking this path, and on the soccer field for the past 3 years late at night. For those who have never been back there, it is very dark and on clear nights it is truly beautiful. The stars and the moon are just about all the light you have, and the only light you want. It’s done a lot for me and a bunch of others on the many lovely nights spent here, and on occasion it is a nice place to go with friends of either sex.

Since the unfortunate rape of a few weeks ago, lights have been put up on this road. I was there tonight and it was really disgusting. It ruins completely everything that it was before. I really don’t think it is so fair. I could understand if this road was needed for people to get to places on campus, but it’s not. I’m all for protecting the girls but anyone, male or female, who goes back on this road at night, is going there because it is so dark and offers solitude and peace of mind. To take this away, is taking away an important part of my life here, and a number of other people’s also. I ask that something be done about this. I’m sure a lot of people couldn’t give a shit, but that’s because they don’t know about it. The fact that they don’t know about it...It proves that these lights are unnecessary. I don’t know what has to be done, but if the girls would tell someone in authority (the Dean of Students, for example) that they are not needed, maybe the people who work here would find a better way to waste money. Thanks for listening.

Michael Sorentino ’74
Davidson College

Judges Cover Pornography, Hands Down

Talks of love and his heart and soul like everyone else talks about the weather. But he means it. His real love is for Davidson College, for players and other students, which is a part of every conversation he has. Disappointed? Right now he must be. Every coach wants to beat the best teams in the country. But he is proud of Davidson and swears to do whatever is in its best interest. Right now he doesn’t know who he'll be facing next year or the year after. But (See FAGG, page 12)

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN

Roman Numerals Show Beautiful Intricacies

By HERB JACKSON
Professor of Art

If I said I learned to paint in a math classroom, I would be lying because painters do not learn to paint; but if I said I learned to see in a math classroom, I would be telling the truth because painters learn to see through every experience. No time wasted. My Bowmar 90506 is ample proof that I learned very little math in the classroom, so how did the experience contribute to the education of my eyes, and what is this madness about learning to see? Even monkeys are not blind, and can, and have painted paintings. For the painter, seeing is based on an infinite variety of visual systems, the subtleties of which form the basis of a personal style after transforming a developing vision. The more general concepts from which the systems are formed: Form, Balance, Energy, Shape, Color, and the like, must become the painter's visual vocabulary before he can become selective and explore his own expression. Although it is more complicated, the organization of these visual systems in painting can be approached through the term composition, which simply refers to the structuring of the picture plane.

When I first learned the Roman numeral system, I realized it had a special attraction and mystery that was lacking in the Arabic characters; but only recently have I begun to suspect that the impression was of more far-reaching significance for me, and perhaps for other painters. Clearly, the Roman numerals would be clumsy for the computer and probably best serve as the date on film credits, but examined in a visual way, they comprise an intricate system of great beauty. I stakes out the center but it is not totally of the center. The motion is vertical but it is not bounded by gravity, resulting in a special continuance which is non-directional. Energy bisecting an open field creates an anxious expectant quality. If the lateral spaces are imagined to be bounded on an intimate scale, the vertical assumes great weight and dominance; however, if the space is boundless, a relatively new concept in painting explored by painters such as Barnett Newman, the vertical is overpowered by heavy pressure from either side. II defines the edge of its space. The center is a closed field which has the potential to be activated like certain paintings by Clyfford Still or left empty like others by Sam Francis. The two verticals may be seen as sentries limiting a surface space on their same plane, or as scale coordinates leading into a three-dimensional illusion. III is of the center. Edges are now frames for action which is defined rather than implied. The expectancy has given way to a solid endurance. Repetition sets up a rhythm that counters the vertical with horizontal motion. A good example of this is Robert Motherwell’s ‘Elegy To The Spanish Republic’ 1953-54, in the Albright Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, New York.

IV responds to gravity in the fixed point of origin. There begins to be a stronger figure-ground ambiguity, that is, form and space can be seen as interchangeable. The diagonal is introduced, both into a closed space bordered on the left and out to infinity. Our natural tendency to want left-right movement restrains the motion here which is to the left, causing a tension with the potential for explosive force, like a coil set to spring. The corners come into focus, the upper right being activated by the threat of the diagonal, and the lower right becoming a passive outlet into open space. Look at the painting “Merritt Parkway” by William de Kooning 1959.

V opens like a blossom from its fixed point, putting the emphasis on the diagonals and the space they contain. The figure-ground reversal reaches complete expression, producing a directional ambiguity which may be used to suggest explosion or implosion. The tendency for this format to imply a neutral center can be seen in Morris Louis’ “Unfurled” paintings.

VI is far more active than its mirror because our left-right orientation is being satisfied. This strong movement puts a heavy strain on the right edge. “Twelfth Station: Stations of the Cross” by Barnett Newman utilizes this same movement by moving from a heavy mass on the left to open space on the right. In this case, the vertical becomes space rather than form.

VII maintains a balance because the addition of a second vertical has equalized the force. There is a slight movement to the right but it is passive and may be due to our knowledge of the system. The two forces are seen as masses rather than edges, thus instead of being aware of the middle as a space, the eye makes it a line separating the sides. This format is used by Ellsworth Kelly when he divides a painting into two equal areas, using color-weight to provide motion.

VIII returns the movement to the right through the dominance of the three verticals. The rhythm of repetition is established and then broken much like three half notes and one whole note would do in a musical score.

IX introduces a half-circle format in which the space is limited on one side by the vertical but liberated on the other three sides by the (See ROMAN, page 12)