Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
MARCH 2, 1973

High Finance

It appears that in drawing up next year's budget the Administration and Board of Trustees have done almost everything possible to ensure a fair and functional handling and distribution of the college's finances. Hopefully, we can digest without too much discomfort the $200 increase in the Comprehensive Fee, and hope that their concern to keep Davidson from pricing itself out of the market is not in vain. We also hope that the college will be able, and willing, to stick by its avowed policy of maintaining other segments of the Comprehensive Fee—room and board, laundry, student activities fee—as student services on which they hope to break even, not as substantial sources of profit.

The special winter meeting of the board seems to have been most instrumental in whatever success the budget can claim, and we hope the practice is continued. It is chronologically feasible, as budgetary issues are seldom clear by the time the board meets in the fall, and the spring meeting may be too late for some items. Moreover, having only one central objective—and the budget certainly merits such distinction—the trustees can devote whatever time and attention is required.

Supposedly, another strong feature of the winter budget meeting was the opportunity it provided for the expression of priorities by all constituents of the college. We applaud the Budget, Buildings and Grounds Committee for its efforts in this area, but apparently one segment of the college feels that its interests were unheard or at best inadequately acted on. The Faculty has now petitioned the Administration to account for what it termed "the relative deterioration of Faculty compensation." But just where does the money come from, when new needs appear almost daily, but income’s low because you're trying to hold down student fees?

It has been suggested that in the coming year every detail of Davidson's doings will be submitted to close scrutiny, in efforts to determine which are the most absolutely necessary. Athletics and other extracurriculars, even academic programs, will need to be examined, perhaps terminated. Some painful surgery may lie ahead, an operation that demands above all the concerned understanding of every student, faculty member, and administrator.

P. E. Participation

We would encourage those students who have not already done so to go over to the gym and participate in the P. E. program there, so that they satisfy the P. E. requirements necessary for graduation. According to figures released this week by Director of Physical Education Chip Stone, there are 120 Juniors and two seniors who have not demonstrated the necessary proficiency in four individual and one team sports.

As for the college’s responsibility, we would encourage them to expand the P. E. programs and facilities offered for the girls, so as to make it a challenging as well as worthwhile endeavor for them. Many girls now seem interested in participating, but how long will that last if they are subjected to second-rate conditions? Both the college and the students have good reason to keep the P. E. program operating smoothly. To do this, they must both be willing to spend the time and effort to make the program successful.

Congratulations

Our congratulations go out to Sue Schmidt and all the others involved who made the Symposium on Changing Roles a successful as well as worthwhile endeavor.

MILES WARD

Speakers Feel ‘A Little Sick’, Words Fall On Empty Seats

Then it was the spring or almost the spring. It was at least spring turning. The new spring air carried winds of melancholy. Of remembering all the old springs and wondering of all the future ones. I thought of springs, summers, and of wooly babies. It could only be from the spell of poetry.

James Dickey of Deliverance was at Queens in that first spring. He spoke about it and the other times of year and about his family. He was comic, reacting to every chuckle in his new role as folk-hero. His audience gave love after only a moment. Too much laughter. No one’s ever laughed at “Sheep Child” before.

Paul Hemphill talked about red-necks and “good ole boys” for the better part of an afternoon. Paul wails the changes and conformity among the red of neck. Claims they sold out for money, houses in the suburbs.Paul sold out early to Playboy magazine and it really shows. James Dickey told me about his audience. It filled 500 seats easy. Mostly women, nice and clean, sweet-smelling, eye-pleasing. He said they were receptive, gave good response. The best ever. He enjoyed his own poems, wouldn't have missed it. I think back a century to Allen Ginsberg. Came here, stayed for days. Intense man. Lots of talk, talk, talk. His reputation too preceded him and students turned out to see this famous guy. I think of what's happened between the mystic poet and the aloof gentleman hero. Davidson's been given a lot. Just on the campus programs and speakers and plays have been dropped in your lap. But what have you done with them? Nothing for the most part. Stayed away, back in the old dorm room for a real up. Fifty come to see "White Roots of Peace." Three hundred show up at Guilford College. And Davidson, you still say you've got "class." It makes a speaker, especially the serious ones, feel a little sick when they fly down from New Jersey and see only thirty-five in their audience. Guess I feel a little nauseous myself. It's unfortunate that one of the biggest worries with the week's symposium on changing roles was attendance. How many will come? How can we get them here? These are some of the most qualified people in the country. They'll tell you some things. Some good ones. And now it's the real spring. Martha Griffiths comes to see us. Through the efforts of Sam Ervin and Richardson Preyer.

Entertainment
By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Staff Writer

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra will present Walter Hautzig, world-famous pianist, in a performance of the Brahms First Piano Concerto in D minor, on Wednesday night. Another feature of the program will be the world premiere of the Symphony No. 1 in E flat by Wilmer Hayden Welsh, professor of music and college organist at Davidson. Following the Welsh Symphony premiere, the orchestra will play Maurice Ravel's "La Valse," one of Ravel's few purely orchestral works. Davidson students can be placed on a special priority ticket list by calling the symphony office at 376-2765.

A silkscreen display continues in the Carol Hall Galleries at Queens College. The prints in the collection, which include work by Corita Kent, Norio Azuma, Steve Poleskie, and others, will be on display until Monday. The Gallery is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. weekdays and until 12 noon on Sundays.

Pianist John D. Eversman and violinist Georgie Henson will perform at the Golden Circle Theatre of The Mint Museum of Art on Sunday. She knows a little about Davidson. But we're likely to give it to her on the chin, too. Let one of the most forceful, active members of Congress play to an empty Love and see what happens. They won't come again. Pretty soon, by just staying away, things won't happen anymore. Try to find a freshman on the Union Board. We've convinced them already there's no need for any activity around here. Some year, some spring around here the only happening will be the weekly Senate meetings. And then we can very properly send a delegate to that to complain.

March 4. The program will include works by Handel, Cesar Franck, Brahms, Mozart, and Kreisler, and will be presented at 3 p.m.

"The Fantasticks," long-running Broadway smash hit musical comedy, is now playing at the Pineville Dinner Theatre. The play, with music by Harvey Schmidt and lyrics by Tom Jones, will continue until March 18. Tickets are from $7 to $10.

The Stan Kenton Orchestra, jazz at its finest, will be presented in concert at the Statesville High School Auditorium, at 8 p.m. on Thursday, March 8. Kenton, long known for his violent dischords and innovative style, will be appreciated by anyone who likes jazz. Tickets are $3 in advance and $4 at the door.

"A Sense of Wonder" continues at Kelly Planetarium and will run until March 18. The show, combining music, poetry, and special effects all to a background on the stars, leaves the traditional planetarium format far behind. Music includes the Beatles, Todd Rundgren, and The Moody Blues, while poetry is by Robert Frost and John Masefield. Shows are Saturdays at 3:30 p.m. and Sundays at 2:30 p.m. at the Charlotte Nature Museum.

Diploma? I Want A Cake!