(statt Photo by Powers)

WHO WILL PAY? Jot McKiveen addresses spectators assembled in the Honors College on national health care in a debate preceding last week's SS Cn ppeoscaan.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Amnesty Revisited

To the Editor:

I was interested by the editorial headed “AMNESTY” in the March 9th issue, especially what I shall here quote, paraphrased for brevity: “The government insists that the fugitive question is still pertinent to the military, a position which reflects only a personal bias of the President.”

Dealing first with the second part of the above quoted statement, the President has taken a stand, but he has seemed to voice a huge groundswell of public sentiment. He is speaking for the “silent majority.” For instance, he speaks for me, and everybody of mature judgment with whom I have talked.

As for the significance of amnesty to the future of the military, let me stress points seldom seen (or acknowledged) by the left-wing, liberal media. Unlike any previous war, there was allowed to exist during the Vietnam war a huge un-American, pro-Communist body of individuals often compacted into “anti-War” or other protest groups. These groups included Tom Hayden, Jerry Rubin, Rennie Davis (invited to speak at Davidson), and others of their screaming counterparts. Dr. Benjamin Spock, who acknowledged being named the candidate of a far-out political party by giving the sign of the raised fist, was in the forefront of those advising our young men to break the law and refuse service. Even the social gospel type ministers were setting up in liberal churches “draft counseling” committees. NEVER in our history were so many people who were not themselves subject to the draft trying to make traitors out of young men who were.

Now it is common knowledge that there are revolutionary training bases in Cuba. Most people know that American youths went to Cuba, via Canada, ostensibly to “cut sugar cane” for Castro, and took revolutionary training. These young people, accepting from people like Spock, and from many socialist preachers and teachers, advice on draft dodging, would make the most perfect group conceivable, if brought back into this country, from which to grow a new crop of Haydens, Wises, Spocks, Coffins, and others of the same stripe. They are already mad at America, they would not make good citizens, and they impudently exhibit their “basic training” in draft dodging by demanding that America apologize to them as a kind of reparation.

There will be other wars. The world is not safe, ever, certainly not until the Communists declare they no longer intend to conquer the world, and prove it by tearing down the Berlin Wall, and lifting the iron and bamboo curtains, thus freeing their people from slavery. I say let these future troublemakers, who have shown they can be swayed into anti-American actions, stay where they are. We have enough unemployment as it is, without these unstable youths returning to compete with returned veterans in the job market.

E. P. Thornton
Murrells Inlet, S.C.

ALAN BARAGONA. The Davidsonian April 6, 1973 Page Five

Davidson Triviality Provides Food For Nostalgic Amnesia

The stale winds of discontent have blown over me in whispers the pleas for lucidity I thought I'd neatly side-stepped when they asked me long ago to snigger at the mush of color that is our laundered shirts or the mystery that is gravy at the eating house. You- (oops! second person makes for in-crowd allegory!) have busily unraveled those convolutions that exist for me but not for you except here if you'd leave them alone, please.

And Spring is here, harbinger of nostalgia, college-senior-journalism-wise. So the little troll keeps telling me to do the My Fond Four Years for posterity or for the alumni, whose funhouse reflection we are, or for the few underclassmen (pardon: underclasspeople) who are still foolish enough to think that a confessional senior can tell them their future or for the maybe three seniors who care to lump their common remembrances into this annual ritual to use them up at last and so forget or more likely for that nebulous sense of duty to give people something they can rely on yearly to skip over. Security, like Geography class.

I look to Numb Elroy, who is feeling much more regular now that they've fixed the fountain, and he nods, approving or perhaps dozing. “En Recherch!” If you sit Sitting Bullish with your hands on your ears, the years stampede — echoing through your head, making it interesting. My hands promise you the continuing college football scholarships are tied in the ear an Honors College Extended community and a shad ate it within a year where are the Judy Collinses of yesteryear running down Fred the cripple black folks on either side of the Coffee Cup kill him before he kills again you can’t paint your windows Blue Sky water tower area exams pass-fail fail-fail the whole three days we knew about Cambodia line up slave Queens queens co-ed panacea where are the fraternities of yesteryear downgoes the union in goes the good EPC Thornton fixing our wagons where are the Lighfoots of yesteryear don't 1. on? f- gone | The New Inhabitants call us sorry not enough credits Renaissance man tough luck be good and we'll let you in throw you out where are the Roberta Flacks of this year at Princeton of the South Carolina games games liberal education what's your GPA? Catch that? Even Elroy blinked a bit but at the people and their questions more than at the years. now neatly recorded. filed. forgotten. table. at least. And the four-year question still burning. vague as ever. not, as some of us thought. “how come no girls?” because they forgot their magic wands and talismans. Not really “how come no independent student-professional one-on-one study?” because there is comfort in classroom anonymity and departmental reputation rather than experimentation. Not even “how come students fantasize silly little gangly wars?” because nobody ever wondered that people had to turn from the glaring stagnance of Davidson to exercise their liberal art. The back-of-the-mind question has always been “what about this place Davidson gives everyone the sense of plodding wastefulness?" And through the years the day-livers and term-stayers have formulated elaborate theories of environmental necromancy. of the malicious intent of the land. But the ones who linger after FACULTY COLUMN forget- dark to preen in the peaceful invitation really to think, the ones who spend between-terms time in the serenity of the unpeopled campus know that even the cubicle of this smallest of small towns cannot stifle if you mind it. It's not the place. It's never been the place. It's the people who have grade-point signs in their eyes and will join the alumni with their dollar-sign eyes. just the same. It's the people who think they can have a counter-culture just by right of their age and think it's fun to be decadent (come to the Cabaret. right? was that a Nazi?). It's the continuing college community that didn't come here but came back here, running for cover when Alma Mater called so they could sneer at the pretensions of the passing students. Our fondest memory will be of a guy I know. his spine iron-rodded and his chin cramped pedantically against his throat. expounding for some poor glazed-eyed intellectual in the middle of a sunburst of a day on Lord Berkeley. for God's sake. I scrunched up my eyes and hoped. Berkeley-ly. that they would fade to imperceptibility. But they didn't. And all my little nymphs and satyrs and I scurry into the fecund emptiness of night and after. screaming “Vive la Bagatelle! Long live triviality!”

Professor Sees Students Infected With Arrogance
By THOMAS A. ROGERSON
Professor of Spanish

“Write us a column, professor," the editor cajoled. Hidden within the guileless request, as venom in a Borgia ring, was the unvoiced addendum “and you’ll see that it isn’t so easy...and you'll see that participles dangle most readily...and if you don’t see, we'll show you mighty quickly.” The professor, a Davidson professor, and as such, well trained in obliging a student by doing his work for him, acceded. After all, considering the Davidson work ethic, what could be more logical than a professor writing for the student newspaper? “What topic?” “The student body!” “Why not?” thought the professor, not only picking up the gauntlet but putting it on and taking pen in hand. Had he not been at least halfway up the long, tortuous road to Parnassus? Surely the quenching waters of Castalia still would reach him even with such an inflammable topic. “No matter what I say, somebody will take offense!” groaned the professor, now bent over a blank page. “What could I have done to those people to deserve such a topic, oh woe!” Then he remembered that critique he had written recently in which, in words of candor and of eternal truth, he had referred to student newspaper writers as “illiterate” and “arrogant in their illiteracy.” This, then, was to be his comeuppance. The arrogant professor, who arrogantly accused the humble scribes of being arrogant, must be shamed, preferably arrogantly. How dare he call them arrogant? Illiterate, yes! never! After all doesn't “arrogance,” in addition to its etymological meaning, also indicate a certain state of “being apart,” of “not being the same as everyone else?” That was what was intolerable! Perish the thought that all Davidson students, scribes included, not be alike, not be like everybody else, not be part of the “Real Thing,” the Pepsi Generation, blue jeans, ecology, loving blacks and the Lord! Yes, it was not the word “illiterate” that bothered these men; it was definitely the word “arrogant.” As the professor rationalized the raison d'etre for his situation, thoughts of his assigned topic came to mind more freely. When he thought deeply about the excellence, or lack of it, in the student body he recalled one of Jean-Paul Sartre’s remarks before the French Academy. This austere body had been embroiled in a typical, silly, never ending debate on the topic “Who is the greatest poet of France?” One of the more conservative members had just...