Formerly fee The Davidsonian January 19, 1973 Page Eleven 1972-73 All-Weinie Team Announced (Ed. note: Because of the paucity of IMAC news this week, our IMAC Reporters have decided to extend the lampoon spirit for one more week. Due to their rather abnormal interest in college basketball, they present their nominations for the coveted "All-American Weinie Awards." These selections are not authoritative and probably should not be considered serious.)

As the halfway point of this year's b-ball season rolls around, C. A. and Buck (with the help of noted hoop expert the Silver Surfer) have selected the 1972-73 edition of the Annual Weinie All-American team. Starting at guard, and captain of this year's hot dogs, is returning mustardman George Karl. This 6-2 sparkplug is world-renowned for his invention of the much-copied "publicity dive." The daring maneuver has added the coup de grace to an otherwise Weinie. The highlight of Karl's career was the numerous ground-level views Georgie enjoyed of Otto Petty and the FSU fast break in last year's NCAA tourney.

The selection at the other guard is "shot-a-minute" Richie Fuqua from Oral Roberts University. Contrary to popular belief, Richie has been known to pass the ball, but only after divine inspiration. Another returning starter is Luke Witte. Luke is as well known for his off-court interest as for his on-court excellence. He is a well-known dance innovator whose latest efforts have resulted in the two new dance crazes currently sweeping the country, the Taylor Shuffle and the Bahagan Stomp, otherwise known as the Minnesota Waltz.

Duplicating North Carolina's feat of a year ago, the University of Maryland, the UCLA of the East, has placed two starting forwards on the Weinie All-American team.

Experienced Players Students Start Hockey Team, Hope To Compete In Charlotte By FORD NEWMAN Staff Writer

A new athletic team has arrived on the Davidson sport scene, filling the absence of a non-scholarship team sport during the winter term. Wildcat football player Ross Manire and Bob Milkes have organized an ice hockey club which meets every Thursday night from 10 p.m. to 12 p.m. at the Holiday Ice Rink in Concord.

"We contacted anybody who had ever played ice hockey or who wanted to," said Manire. "We now have 34 guys who have signed up and have bought sticks." Manire said that 10 of the 34 players had playing experience and that they formed the nucleus of the club, helping out the beginners. According to Manire, the club had originally intended to compete in the Charlotte League, but they were not allowed to play as a group from Davidson. However, Manire hopes to play against a Senior League opponent soon after the end of February.

"We hope to have more scheduled games next year, possibly against hockey clubs from other schools," Manire added. Manire cited the main problem the club has faced as attaining money for equipment, especially for the goalies. "I've called sporting goods stores in Charlotte and I can get a 15 percent discount on any equipment we buy," said Manire. He said he has hopes of getting a grant from the activities council. Basic individual costs do not run too high with the cost of renting the rink being $26 for two hours divided among the members, $5 for hockey sticks, and 35 cents for skate rental. Another drawback for the club is that the rink size limits the number of guys who can play. But Manire thinks the club can possibly handle 50 players.

Outstanding players mentioned by Manire were Steve IMAC REPORT CAPTAIN AMERICAFirst, at 6-11, the highly touted Tom McMillen. Tom adds this honor to numerous other distinctions, such as last year’s All-Overrated team. “Mr. Clutch” gave a virtuoso performance last Saturday. Vitek, a freshman who played in the Charlotte League, Milkes, who is from Canada, Bob Reni, and Shawn McCormick, a Davidson grad who teaches in Charlotte. Manire, who played in a league in Illinois, said that inexperienced goalies Pat Cochran and Skip Holcombe were progressing very well. “Everybody had a lot of fun and this is the main aspect of the club,” Manire said. “We really enjoyed it.”

Cornelius, N.C.
NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING
“We Rent Tux”
Phone 892-8064

Against N.C. State by missing three foul shots and air balling a hook shot in the last two minutes. He was awarded a standing ovation from Rich Porac (an All-Bench selection). The fifth starter on the Weinie All-American team is Maryland captain Jim O'Brien. Resplendent in his red Cons and with tufts of flaming red hair blowing from his receding hairline, Bozo is our first three-year starter, who has successfully managed to blend all of the ingredients that make the complete Weinie.

Arriving at a starting five is extremely difficult work and many notable achievements and players have been overlooked. Therefore, we present our honorable mention selections. At center is the “Pinball Wizard” Tommy Burleson of N.C. State. Contrary to popular belief, Tommy did not receive his name because he is deaf, dumb, and blind. Walter Luckett, Ohio State freshman, gained recognition for appearing on the cover of “Sports Illustrated” for no apparent reason. Walter also takes over McMillen's spot on the All-Overrated team this year. Coach Norm Sloan of N.C. State gains mention for being the mentor of collegiate basketball’s only traveling freak show. “Natty” Joe Williams of Furman makes the team for wearing his stunning yellow double-knit suit aptly described by Bill Russell as looking “like a human banana.” UNCC's Robert Earl Blue is finally up in the big time and C.A. and Buck are thinking of sending him back.

In our coach's division, we have Tates Locke of Clemson for the most artful handling of a team which is made up entirely of Weinies. However, our All-Weinie Coach is none other than our own Charles Driesell. What can be said about Lefty? He has fulfilled his promises of making Maryland “the UCLA of the East,” and Davidson “the Princeton of the South.”

Bowling
MOOR LANES
Daytime Student Rates
Billiard Tables
Mooresville
Pinball Machines
Snack Bar

“Pre-Mardi Gras Rock Festival, February 14 - February 19, featuring all of the Top Groups and itinerary. $28.00 each - $38.00 per couple. Sidney Manix Enterprises, 1026 Conti Street, New Orleans, Louisiana 70112. Hurry! Tickets Limited.”

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:
Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer - North Carolina's nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. 26th year. Camps feature sailing, motorboating and seamanship plus SCUBA at Camp Sea Gull and horseback riding at Camp Seafarer and all usual camping activities. Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who are LOOKING FOR MORE than “just another summer job.” Openings for NURSES (RN). June 6 - August 17. We seek highly qualified (ability to instruct in one phase of camp's program), dedicated and enthusiastic staff members with exemplary character and offer in return good salaries, board and lodging, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Apply to Wyatt Tayler, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

SYMPOSIUM ON CORRECTIONS
The degree of civilization in a society can be judged by entering its prisons.
Dostoevski “The House of the Dead”
Davidson College
January 22-24, 1973