Che Vol. LXIII, No. Seven Aavtsaonttan Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 October 26,
1973

Trustees Make ‘Positive’ Changes In Athletics

By MICHAEL TANNER
Executive Editor

The Board of Trustees today established future policy for the entire athletic program of Davidson College. President Samuel R. Spencer,
Jr. commented that the changes represent a significant shift toward a positive program of intercollegiate athletics and physical education.

To assure its program, the board has determined the following as college policy:

First, the program of national-level basketball will be maintained at full strength. A goal of maintaining a “level of quality
comparable to the highest level so far achieved” will be pursued and the basic expenses for the sport will be
funded by the college.

Second, intercollegiate football will be continued on the basis of financial aid for players up to the limit of their
need, college financial support of an active recruiting campaign, and a schedule which offers an “even chance for success.”

Third, other intercollegiate teams, including women’s teams, will be financially supported, enabling them to contribute to the overall athletic program.
In light of these changes, it was requested that the Wildcat Club should broaden its scope to supplement the funding
of the entire athletic program.

The trustees also stated that all decisions on admissions and financial aid continue to be made only by the Faculty
Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid. Financial aid to all students, other than those participating in varsity basketball, will be
limited to need, except in the cases of honorary scholarships (token stipends given to students of special talents and abilities
in athletics).

The Administration is directed to conduct a thorough study of the status and security of personnel in the Department of
Physical Education and Athletics and to make every effort to establish and maintain athletic facilities comparable to the rest of
the physical plant.

Chairman of the Committee on Athletics and Physical Education of the board, Hugh D. Verner, explained that all of the
changes emerged from discussions among trustees, alumni, faculty, and students. “The major principles have the support of all these groups,”
he said.

In a statement of their philosophy concerning athletics, trustees affirmed their belief in the value of a strong and positive
program of athletics and physical education as an “essential ingredient in Davidson’s total educational effort.” Such a program should include
the following elements:

1) A strong and broad program of intercollegiate competition with a “goal of success at a realistic level for each
sport.”
2) Well-planned and developed physical education demanding a basic proficiency in selected sports and a knowledge of health-related and hygiene
subjects.

The trustee guidelines call for extensive and well-organized programs of intramural and club sports, affording maximum student participation. Special attention
is likewise to be given to lifetime and carry-over sports, and sound management and reasonable cost are to be stressed
in all of these areas.

“We want athletics to develop in a positive way for the benefit and enjoyment of the entire student body,” Verner
said. Verner emphasized that the positive nature of this entire plan is to be recognized above anything else. “It’s important
to think of this as a move toward something, as a step ahead, rather than a move away from something
else,” he said. Spencer added that, “these changes weren't born out of desperation, but rather out of a need for
realism.”

(Staff photo by Venable)

BLACKWELL, EDITOR OF THE MECKLENBURG GAZETTE

Up to this point, the Mecklenburg Gazette has largely been a one-man operation. With the resignation of Taylor Blackwell, a
major shakeup will occur in the printing procedures of both the Gazette and THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Gazette Experiences Turnover As Editor Blackwell Resigns

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Managing Editor

The Davidson Printing Company, which publishes the Gazette and THE DAVIDSONIAN.will experience a major administrative turnover on November 1. Waller
Taylor Blackwell, the president and publisher of Davidson Printing Company, has announced that he is selling the company. Blackwell, who
has operated Nixon Actions Cause Widespread Dissent By PHILLIP BISHOP Associate Editor President Richard Nixon fired Watergate prosecutor Archibald Cox
last Saturday because Cox continued to demand the release of the presidential Watergate tapes. Three days later, Nixon released those
tapes. Davidson campus reaction to the president's latest maneuvers included anger, disbelief, and confusion. An informal sampling of student opinion
both before and after the release of the tapes revealed almost universal opposition to Nixon’s dismissal of Cox. “We have
to get that man out of office before we don’t have a country left,” said one sophomore of President Nixon.
Condemnation of Nixon’s actions was not universal. Several students believed the President was at least partially justified in firing Cox.
“‘Crook that he is, Nixon was going on the principle of refusing to violate Presidential confidence,’” argued a sophomore supporter
of the President. Students saw mixed motives behind Nixon’s firing of Cox. Few believed the dismissal came just because of
Cox’s intransigence on the tapes issue. “Cox was homing in on God knows what,” commented senior Jeff Hasty. “What looked
at first like a stupid move by Nixon has gotten rid of Cox. It certainly disrupts the momentum of the
investigation.” Sue Cunningham said Nixon was “running scared and not because of what is in those tapes.” She added that
tapes are easily altered. “By Nixon’s rationale, handing over the tapes is a show of weakness,” explained senior Doug Berry.
Berry attributed Nixon’s dismissal of the special prosecutor to the “same old Nixon paranoia and a dislike for Cox’s personal
arrogance.” Impeachment of the President received mixed support. “Impeachment would be a good idea, if done as an investigative procedure
and not just to oust the President,” said Assistant Director of the College Union Duff Bruce. A sophomore countered that
impeachment might result just in further internal division and international embarrassment for the U.S. Senior Bonnie Henesy said she could
not understand Cox’s motivation in refusing to compromise. It could have been personal egotism or a desire to save his
job, she added. One negative result of the tapes dispute is the resignation of Attorney General Elliot Richardson. “Richardson was
the one (See NIXON, page 16) the company for six years, is selling to Banner Publishers, Incorporated of Camden, S.C.
Blackwell cited two primary reasons for selling the company. First, he feels that the Mecklenburg Gazette needs a broader base
to work in. “This is an important step forward for North Mecklenburg and the Mecklenburg Gazette,” he explained. “During the
past half decade, the Gazette has moved from a position of one of the State’s smaller papers to a mid-size
weekly with circulation of over 3000 newspapers with 14 to 16 page editions.” The Mecklenburg Gazette has begun to feel
the pressures of community expansion, and Blackwell believes that this will reach a decisive point in two or three more
years. Blackwell is also selling his newspaper for personal reasons. “I have enjoyed my work with the newspaper and the
entire North Mecklenburg community,” said Blackwell. He added, however, that he wants to rest from newspaper work for a while.
The Banner Publishing Company will announce the name of a new editor of the Mecklenburg Gazette in the near future.
He will be based locally. Time Change Everyone is reminded that their clocks should be set back one hour this
Sunday as the U.S. returns to Eastern Standard Time. EST will remain in effect until April 28.
