Study Weighs Benefits Of Subsidized Sports
By TOM BRUCE
Associate Editor

A cost-benefit analysis of subsidized athletics at Davidson College was written last spring by an Economics class under Professor of
Economics, Bruce Avinger. “Different members of the class made contributions to the report and we assembled the final product at
a picnic table in my yard,” explained Avinger.

The report addresses itself to the overall desirability of subsidized athletics to society in general, evolving from Davidson's intercollegiate athletic
programs. Broadly speaking, the report weighs the potential economic benefit from the athletic program at Davidson to the general public,
rather than its benefits to Davidson as a private institution.

The investigators found that, surprisingly, the won-lost record of the football team or the basketball team did not correlate with
fluctuations in alumni contributions to the general fund. In fact, the general climate of business conditions has been the major
explanatory variable of alumni giving. The study also concluded that the fundraising of the Wildcat Club is a positive influence
on alumni giving. Speculation that alumni giving to the Wildcat Club might enter into competition with the contributions to the
general fund is apparently false. The combined contributions of both the general fund and the Wildcat fund exceed the collections
which would have accrued solely to the general fund in the absence of the Wildcat Club.

The survey seemed to show that economic benefits derived from membership in the Southern Conference were relatively negligible. The report
cited ease of scheduling, booking and training of officials, and postseason competition as attractive elements as members in the Conference,
but stated repeatedly “the benefits are probably negligible.”

Looking into the costs of subsidization, the study seemed to show that there was a disparity between the demonstrable scholarship
need among athletes versus students at large. In 1971-72, for instance, 285 students, representing about 28 percent of the student
population, received an average financial aid of $1497.85. By comparison, 88 student athletes (football players), representing 81 percent of the
football team, received scholarship aid averaging $1585.55 per recipient. These grants, in both cases, were based on financial need as
proved by the Parent's Confidential Statement.

Avinger warned against interpreting the conclusions of the report as “the final word.” “We had to work around some limitations
in our data and some inconsistencies in gathering research, although overall, it is a good report,” he said.

The Davidsonian
April 6
Page Three

(staff Photo by Goodman)

INTO DRUGS
Andy Lamas found 2000-3000% prescription profits.

Lamas Studies Pharmacy Prices
By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

Freshman Andy Lamas is into drugs. That might be an incriminating statement except for the fact that there is nothing
illegal about it and that the drugs involved are bought by millions of people daily.

Lamas, in conjunction with the Political Science department course 127, “State and Local Government” under William Jackson, made a study
last term of retail prescription drug prices in Charlotte and the surrounding area. He also studied the North Carolina State
Board of Pharmacies for their organizational and licensing practices and their restrictions on trade policies.

As a result of his study, Lamas is under the opinion that there exists a pharmacological monopoly in the retail
drug business in favor of the independent drug stores, thereby causing a gross inequity to the consumer over prices. His
reasons become clearer once the make-up of the State Board of Pharmacies is considered.

“The State Board is composed of five men, appointed by the governor on rotating terms, a new one each year,”
explained Lamas. “All five are either owners of, or have interests in, independent drug stores as opposed to the chain
stores such as Eckerd’s or REVCO. In addition, the State Board members are usually recommended by the North Carolina Pharmaceutical
Association, which also represents mostly independent drug stores.”

(staff Photo by Powers)
Rockefeller Fellow senior Dick Clay has been awarded a Rockefeller Fellowship for a trial year at a theological seminary, which
covers all educational expenses for one year. The award is made to seniors who agree to consider seriously the possibility
of the ordained ministry during the trial year.store interests. The monopoly extends even higher until it gets to the national
level.”

“The State Board has the power to revoke a pharmacist's license, which comes up for renewal each year, if he
is found to be an alcoholic, drug addict, or if he is found guilty of acts of ‘gross immorality’ under
a clause in the Board's provisions. The State Board, however, interprets ‘gross immorality’ as relating to the advertising of prescription
retail drug prices, which consequently aids the independent stores in charging their prices.

“The people I talked to in Charlotte representing the chain stores want to advertise but can't because of the ‘gross
immorality’ clause.”

In doing the study, Lamas got a doctor to write out a prescription for him; in this case, it was
for 40 tetracycline pills, which is a general antibiotic. He would have it filled and then say that he didn’t
have enough money to pay for the pills, thereby getting his prescription back. This enabled him to study the pharmacist’s
actions and not have to buy any drugs.

In the 15 stores he visited, Lamas said that the prices for his prescription varied from $1.36 to $8.00. Independent
drug stores were the ones who charged the most for the prescription, and the chain stores the least.

“Independent drug stores clear more of a profit on drugs than do chain stores, mainly because of the State Board's
influence,” said Lamas. “The Carolina Cut Rate Drug Store was the most expensive, charging me $8.00 for the tetracycline pills.
The next day, though, I went to the same store, handed the prescription to a different druggist, and he only
charged me $6.”

“Another store did the same thing, giving the same prescription to me this time within 15 minutes of each other,
and varying between $4.00 and $6.00 respectively.”

Lamas pointed out that there are really two different ways in which a druggist can fill a prescription. Using tetracycline
as an example, the generic prescription pills are the same as the chemical tetracycline C22H24N2O8 and come marked that way
in the bottle. The brand names of the same pill, which are manufactured by reputable drug firms, have names such
as SUMYCIN or ACHROMYCIN. Chemically, they are the same as the generic pills. The difference between the two is that
the brand name drugs have different catalyzing agents in them (allowing them to enter the bloodstream more quickly), which may
differ from company to company. The only major difference between the two, however, is in the price.

“A generic tetracycline pill will cost anywhere from one-tenth of a cent to one cent per pill,” stated Lamas, “but
the brand name pills for tetracycline, SUMYCIN, and ACHROMYCIN, cost four and five cents respectively.”

By claiming to be interested in pharmacology as a profession, Lamas was able to get behind the counter in 12
of the 15 drug stores he surveyed and view how the pharmacist filled his prescription. In one store, Lamas was
able to see the bottle from which the pills were obtained. The pharmacist in question filled the prescription from a
generic bottle and then charged him $6.00 — the brand name price.

“You've got to give the pharmacist some leeway for overhead and profit,” observed Lamas, “but a 2000-3000 percent profit is
a bit too much.”

“Several years ago, pills used to be color-coded so that the doctor and patient could be able to tell the
difference between the same drug,” continued Lamas. “Now, however, all the pills are...

(see PHARMACY, Page B2)

Phi Beta Kappa Picks 19

Phi Beta Kappa Secretary Malcolm Lester has announced that the Gamma of North Carolina Chapter will induct 19 Davidson seniors
on April 26 during Convocation Week. Students must have at least a 3.5 grade point average to receive bids, but
no more than 12.5 percent of the seniors may be inducted.

Barry Raynor Arnold
Robert Edward Banta
Walter Scott Beard
Thomas Johnstone Campen
Cornelius Wesley Coghill III
William Nichol Eskridge Jr.
Peter William Graham
Henry Smith Jennings III
Francis Mitchell Johnson Jr.
Michael David Kelly
Richard Paul Levi
Gary Stephen Long
Jerry Clinton McCann Jr.
William Robert Meier
Hugh Wallace Tinsley Jr.
Neil Webster Trask II
Michael Stevens Wheeler
David Jethro Williams II
Grover Gray Wilson
