October 12, 1973

The Davidsonian

Friday, October 12
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: “Bonnie and Clyde” - Love Auditorium

Saturday, October 13
8 p.m. Black Student Coalition - Chambers Banquet Hall
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: “Bonnie and Clyde” - Love Auditorium

Sunday, October 14
6:30 p.m. Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship Meeting - Martin Room

Monday, October 15
10 a.m. Davidson College Photographers Association - Cunningham Room
5:30 p.m. Worship Workshop: Pat McGeachy - Depot
8:30 p.m. American Guild of Organists - College Church
10 p.m. Pat McGeachy - Rathskeller
10 p.m. SGA Grievance Committee - Cunningham Room

Tuesday, October 16
All morning: Washington University School of Business and Public Administration - Martin Room
All day: Vanderbilt School of Law - Cunningham Room
10 a.m. Open Coffee with Bill - President’s Home
1 p.m. Wednesday Chowder Society - Rathskeller
7 p.m. Worship Workshop: Pat McGeachy - College Church
8 p.m. Reynolds Lecturer: James Kilpatrick - Love Auditorium

Wednesday, October 17
COLLEGE CONFERENCE DAY
8 p.m. Fine Film: “Blow Up” - Love Auditorium

Thursday, October 18
10 a.m. Coffee and Cokes - Chambers Banquet Hall
4 p.m. Open Coffee for Paul Ziff, UNC-CH Department of Philosophy - Faculty Lounge
7 p.m. “Catholic Liturgy” - Phi Hall
8 p.m. Paul Ziff - Perkins

ROTC Participation Declines As Only 31 Freshmen Enroll
LILLIAN GASCOIGNE
Asst. Managing Editor

Thirty-one Davidson College freshmen, including six women, will be participating in the Army Reserve Officers Training Corps this year. This is a substantial decrease from last year’s 87 students who began the program and the 45 who finished.

“The ending of the draft and the war in Vietnam influenced these numbers quite a bit. We are now trying to break away from the old concept of the army in connection with Vietnam. The army is now, more than ever, a way of life, and a most enjoyable one, with a lot to offer,” stated Colonel William Simpson, the new head of the ROTC program here.

“Freshmen can still sign up for the program, and we will catch them up through October. There is no obligation and no credit for this course.”

Cross-enrollment students from other schools participating in ROTC at Davidson is a new feature this year. The 16 students in this program come from Johnson C. Smith, UNC-C, Belmont Abbey College, and Gaston College.

Many scholarships now enhance the ROTC program. Nine freshmen are on four-year scholarships. These are also available on one, two, and three-year terms and are renewed each year as long as the student maintains the required standards.

Yearbook Arrival Finally Set (Continued from page 1)

“The book was largely Ron’s art, and he didn’t seek much help,” George and other staff members stated. “It is the editor’s job to see that all deadlines are met, and in this capacity last year’s editor failed,” another staff member complained.

Another problem over which no staff member had control concerned the resignation of the yearbook company’s representative to Davidson. “This caused many communication problems,” said George, “and we may not use the same printer for the '74 annual.”

There have also been some communication problems among the school’s financial committees, the annual staff, and the student body concerning annual staff elections and budgets. Elections for positions on the annual staff are held in February of each year. The Student Body Financial Committee does not meet until May of each year.

“A situation could arise, and has arisen before, where a student is elected on a large budget. He then makes plans and orders based on that budget and runs the risk of having his budget cut out from under him when the financial committee meets. What is he to do?” asks Currie.

Several people around campus say they have solutions. Terry suggests that alterations to the content of the student handbook and yearbook be made. “Let a section of the handbook contain everybody's picture, faculty and staff included. Students could use it as a directory. Retain the annual, but let it be a book of pictures about Davidson life - a sort of guide to Davidson,” offered Terry.

According to the American Yearbook Company, one of the main hold-ups in printing was “the delay in receiving the photographs for the 1973 Davidson annual.”

Two other members of the college staff agree that committees should be formed immediately to study the annual and its problems. “We need to stimulate more discussion on campus about the annual,” said Assistant Alumni Director Zach Long. “Has anyone ever thought to ask what another school of 1100 students is paying for an annual so we can make some comparisons?”asked Currie. “We need more campus discussion concerning the annual so arbitrary decisions concerning the budget won't be made.”

The budget for the 1974 annual will be about $9500 (or $8.63 per student). This figure represents a $1500 increase over the 1973 annual’s budget. Only those people who attended Davidson last year will receive the 1973 annual, when it arrives in November.

... Christian Service (Continued from page 1)

The Joint Committees last met Sept. 7 at which meeting they discussed campus and community worship. A program of Tuesday evening worship services was established, largely the work of Minister Otey. “This Tuesday service will hopefully be one place each week where town, gown, black, white, rich, poor, sad and happy people may come together to seek to overcome those things which separate us and to celebrate that which binds us together,” Otey said. He indicated that this attempt to bring together students and townspeople will probably not be very successful in terms of numbers, but that even if just a few are brought together it will have been worthwhile.

If the Tuesday worship service represents a new expression of Davidson's Christian commitment, so does Otey himself. “Otey, who began work this summer, is the first chaplain Davidson has had since Scott Woodmansee departed in December of 1971. Unlike Woodmansee, Otey has connections with both the college and the Presbyterian Church on campus. “I’m aware that there are possibilities of role conflict,” Otey said, “and I’m sensitive to this. What I hope to do is to maintain autonomy while drawing both college and non-college people. It is true, though, that some students might see me as being too related to one church.”

... maintains a C average and meets ROTC proficiency standards. Students may apply for these scholarships through the ROTC offices. Also, those staying in ROTC more than two years receive $100 a month and are commissioned second lieutenants when they graduate. The army is now offering full medical scholarship programs which pay tuition and all other fees plus $400 a month spending money. While there are now no scholarships for law students, the army offers a program for active duty in army law offices during the summer. The student will act as a second lieutenant and will receive the pay for that office. There are also graduate school fellowships for those planning to stay in service with the regular army. Again, interested students may apply through the ROTC offices here. The program has not been altered in any way by the addition of women. However, they are not permitted to drill with combat arms.

The freshman ROTC course is a light introduction consisting of 30 classroom hours which places emphasis on military history and includes the basics of map reading, tactics, work in the squad and platoon level, and communications. In addition to ROTC is the ROCS (Ranger Oriented Combat Soldiers) Program, designed for the “highly motivated cadets who enjoy rugged outdoor life and want more.” The program, designed by the students, consists mainly of challenging tactical exercises which are carried out over weekends. Simpson termed this program “adventure training.”

... Construction (Continued from page 2)

He said that he has confidence in the contractor and his skill at meeting and solving such problems. On the subject of cost overruns, Meetze said that only “normal” price increases have been encountered. “We had them pretty well pinned down when we began this program. There are no problems from it at this stage. Our cost contingencies have been handled really well,” he said.

The Little Library will have a ground floor and two floors above that. The roof of the building is installed, and work can be done simultaneously on the exterior and the inside. That includes heating and cooling, plumbing, and electrical work. North Main Street is certain that lost time can be made up. After the building itself is completed, hopefully on schedule in June, the process of moving the books from the present library will be carried out. During the summer, finishing touches on the interior will be made. By that stage, the question of installing electronic equipment for guarding and checking out books will have been decided and acted upon. The plans call for a brick walkway to connect the library and Chambers building. There will be six large planters in the area.

... good listeners are made, not born. The Quest Company Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates North Main Street College Agents Brad Tipler Dick Richardson Rollie White Bill Smith Mike Pappas

PARKS REXALL DRUGS Hours: 9-7 — Wed. 9-12. — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30 Phone 892-0208 Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main St. Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Homeworkers. Earn $60 weekly addressing envelopes. Rush 25¢ Gemoc, POB 21244 X, Indianapolis, Ind. 46221

Hungry d presents CHAMBERS NIGHT CLUB Friday, October 19 Saturday, October 20 8 and 10 P.M. 6 First Union National. DAVIDSON