Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

DECISIONS DECISIONS

New Senators discuss Committee appointments

Visitors Board Denied Paper Trimmed Budget

Because Of

ALE News

20 te: lite Eb attac

Lee leds ed

Meet

New Senate

B. HARRIETT

News

HARRHIE

STEVE BALE

Features

Business Manager

News Editor

Sports

Contributors

J. Rove

James Revod

J. Praziet

S. Huser

Views

Fran

New Senate

B. HARRIETT

News

Phillips

Though all of his nominees were approved, Phillips said he got plenty of confidence in his appointees Cunning, Harding, Ward, and Dodd. Butner reported the student referendum concerning next year. Over 90 percent of the mods expressed disapproval.

---

This cleaned version maintains the original structure and punctuation while removing extraneous characters and correcting obvious OCR errors.SoS proved the proposed calendar and voted in favor of a split winter term. Butner said that the Honor Court reported to the Senate on the stolen book problem in the library. He reported that 360 books are missing from the library. Clay stated that the Honor Court was attempting to increase student awareness of the problem.

"If this is unsuccessful," Clay said, "the Honor Court would consider instituting a temporary check desk in the library just to show students how bad the situation is." Clay asked the Senate for its help in manning the desk should the Honor Court decide to take that action.

Books Grow More Expensive
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Assistant Managing Editor

In purchasing books and periodicals, the cost must be about $129,000, assuming a price increase of 15 percent. In 1965-66, the total book budget for the college was $129,000. For the 1971-72 budget, it was increased by about 20 percent, or to $87,604. Even with a 20 percent increase, we are purchasing about 280 fewer books per year than before. However, the students are aware of all the security measures, but they knew how to appreciate a more extensive collection.

Committee Members Chosen
Begins Work

The newly elected Senators Miles Ward, Bob Cunningham, Mitch Purvis, Rick Damewood, Vince Rabii, Duncan, and Steve Bell were sworn in. Also, the unopposed election of class officers cheered the classes of '74 and '75.

Quips and Cranks Miscellany

The library director acknowledged that the administration did the best they could to increase the book budget. He said that the committee could not complain when the construction of the new library was taken into consideration. Davidson added that they will increase the budget in time.

Impressed with the catalog photo by Goodman.

LAMPOST LAUGHTER
Perched on one of the lampposts may be great lighting fixtures. These recent discussions about...