January 12, 1973 Page Three

Ney’s Remains Found Near Library

The remains of Peter Stuart Ney, designer of the college seal, and mystery man of long standing, were accidentally unearthed early last week near the construction site of the E. H. Little Library. The body was discovered by John Doe, a local resident of the Davidson area. It seems that Doe uncovered the body while digging in the soft mud in an attempt to hide more than $5000 he had embezzled from Sun Yak Mung’s Chinese Seafood Euphorium of Cornelius where he was employed as a bouncer. Doe was apprehended by Cop Linker, a former Davidson campus security agent who happened to be passing by following a visit with admirers on campus.

Later investigation of the site by workmen revealed the Ney family seal, a man poking rocks down the throat of a snake with a stick, stamped in black on the rotting wood of the coffin. The body was removed to the freezers at ARA Slater dining facilities for storage. Doe is presently confined to the Federal prison at Mooresville where he agreed to answer questions about his discovery. "I's diggen ya know and I done hit on dis wood thing and ‘for I could do notten I's ap-per ened," he said. Doe added that he had never heard of Ney.

When told of the discovery, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. reacted with enthusiasm, declaring Monday, January 15, Ney Day. All classes will be suspended to allow students and faculty to take part in the seminars and memorial services which are planned. Director of the library and authority of Davidsoniana Chalmers Davidson, who had originally expressed skepticism of the find, stated that he is now convinced and enthusiastic. "I look upon this as the find of the century. It is a find of great historical and cultural interest," he said. Davidson added that he will propose that a seminar, The Life and Times of Peter Stuart Ney, be included as part of the spring curriculum. He also suggested that the course be made mandatory for all those taking the humanities sequence. "I think that each and every graduate of this college should have some knowledge of the man who made such an outstanding contribution to this school," he said.

At the present time, plans are also being formulated to entomb the remains of Ney in the rare book room of the new E. H. Little library. Plans for the erection of a marble crypt were vetoed by Vice President for Finance C. David Cornell. "We have a service elevator left over from the old union that is about the right size. I am sure we can convert it into a splendid housing for the body," said Cornell.

Pathologists who conducted the medical examination of the body required by North Carolina law reported the cause of death as "gross decomposition of the central nervous system aggravated by advanced cirrhosis of the liver." Medical examiner Jenkins Kahn interpreted the findings as the result of advanced and obviously neglected syphilis. Davidson expressed shock and surprise over the medical findings but brushed off suggestions that the findings could prove an embarrassment to the college. "Every man has his weakness," said Davidson. He added that "We must be loyal to the traditions of the college and to that great and wonderful tradition as expressed in the college seal, and to Ney who created that seal."

In addition to the body, several additional objects were found within the coffin. They included two black notebooks of a loose-leaf variety with University of Paris Book Store stamped clearly on the cover, a canvas bag of coins, a gold-plated lighter, and an unopened box of a dozen original sheepskin protectors. The larger of the two notebooks appeared to be an unfinished autobiography, the smaller contained the names of over 500 women including the notorious Black Hare Sue Ejickler, and Tina "the Tuna" Yezeav.

Reports that Ney was in fact Napoleon's Aid-de-camp, which have been floating around Davidson for over a century, at last appear to be substantiated. In his autobiography, Ney describes one disastrous Russian campaign, and reports that he was forced to flee France after having been seen leaving the boudoir of the Empress Josephine when he should have been at the Battle of Waterloo. Ney mentions Davidson in a letter he wrote to his parents in 1839. "Dear Mom and Dad. Wish you were here. Davidson is a nice place to visit but I wouldn't want to live here. The weather is lousy."

The decision of the Conrad Hilton conglomerate to purchase a 500-acre tract of land fronting on Lake Norman ended the college's perennial search for a commercial motel to house college guests. "We are just real happy about the new hotel coming to our community," commented C. David Cornell, vice president of finance.

ROTC Orders RONCO Rifles

The Davidson College ROTC Department announced yesterday the pending agreement with RONCO Corporation of Chicago for the supply of the new M-16 A1 rifles expected in the next few weeks. The original agreement was with the Springfield Arsenal, the major suppliers to the armed forces, but according to Colonel Virgil P. Foster "the RONCO deal was just too good to pass up!"

RONCO, (makers of such products as Veg-a-Matic, Dial-a-Matic, Little Home Winemaker, Hanger Up-tr, Seal-a-Meal, Splatter Screen, and the all-new hydraulic Nutcracker), signed the contract for "an unspecified amount" according to company representative Delmar P. Stitt but was "highly pleased with the amount in question." Actually, RONCO was in contention with Popeil Inc. of St. Louis (manufacturers of Kitchen Magician, Hav-a-Maid, etc.) for the subsidy, but was nosed out due to "too many defects in the assembly line," stated Foster. "We caught sight of a Consumer Reports issue last month which mentioned a faulty wringer...In the Hav-a-Maid and the tendency of the Kitchen Magician to suck in appendages along with the cole slaw,” Foster explained. “We don't want our boys losing a trigger finger over there,” Foster pointed, “Just for the luxury of a few lousy Krinkle-Kut carrots!" Foster got the idea of switching to a private manufacturer while watching the Late, Late Show on television one evening. “I was just swept away with the ease of their products,” Foster remembered. “I seem to recall that it was a Dial-a-Matic commercial at the time. When that announcer said ‘has this ever happened to you?’ and proceeded to splurt a tomato all over his hand with a dull knife, I was hooked. Reminded me of the time I had a dull bayonet at Iwo. Damn thing wouldn't cut butter. That's why I'm going to insist on a Dial-a-Matic built into all the rifles."

At a preview showing of the rifle, which was drawn to specification, Stitt displayed some of the unique features which will be offered. Besides the Dial-a-Matic, RONCO has incorporated a pneumatic bottle opener-corkscrew into the charging handle for celebrations after mortar attacks and what-not. For those “impromptu combat dinners,” there is a Veg-a-Matic on the flip side of the ejection port cover which can only be operated while the gun is on safety. “Just let any of those Gooks try to use it in the firing position and POW—a diced radish right in the gut!" exclaimed Stitt.

One of the most ingenious features about this gun is that it never needs to be cleaned, since most of the excess grease from the French fryer in the butt plate is sufficient lubrication for all parts. RONCO announced that it was including its famous TV Bonus of 50 teeny tiny clothespins for when the gun converts into a Hanger Upper for drying clothes after wading through “Delta water and slime pools,” Stitt exemplified. An added bonus thrown in for free will be a Cap Snaffler for snaffling caps off of any type jar or for loosening tight firing pins. Said Foster, “It really, really works!"

Wives or mothers of ROTC personnel will receive both a Buttoneer and Mini-sewer as an added goodwill gesture on behalf of the company. The Buttoneer also converts into a .38 caliber zip gun for added protection against “pesky salesmen or misbehaved children,” declared Stitt. The Pentagon “declined any comment” on the move by the College ROTC department, but said that if the gun “stood up under combat conditions, we might be interested.”

BONES AND A LIVER
Ney’s fondness for Napoleon brandy preserved his liver.

Room Shortage Days Over; Much-Needed Hilton Arrives
Finance and development. “I have always wanted a number of nice rooms for Piedmont lecturers, prospective students, and trustee weekends."

The Hilton corporation sent a representative to Davidson in the first weeks of December to discuss purchasing the property offered by the college at the juncture of I-77 and N.C. 115. Hopes for the new structure were dealt a severe blow when the Hilton official turned down the site on the grounds that it had no trees or topsoil. Just as the Hilton official was preparing to send a negative report to the main office in New York, he found the Lake Norman site that finally proved acceptable. Ironically, the title search took nearly a month but the college finally purchased the land from its owner, C. David Cornell, Vice President of Finance and Development. Cornell had been holding the property for a few months planning to build a lake house.

Already the new hotel has been the cause of much controversy. The Hilton corporation wanted to erect a one-story complex with sixteen units and an adjoining parking lot complete with a swing set and monkey bars. “At first this seemed like a good plan," stated Cornell, “but soon we realized that this was short-term planning, a little too bush league for our purposes. With the new Carowinds amusement park to be opening this spring, this area will be booming. We don't have much use for a little ‘Ma and Pa’ boarding house with a bed vibrator and a garish beanery next door. We want something that says Davidson all the way."

In answer to Cornell's requests, the Hilton management bought 200 feet of property further down the lake for a marina and boat dock. This property, owned by Mrs. Ava Spencer, was bought as part of a package with a two-mile roadbed to I-77 owned by Dean of Students Will Terry. Construction of the 22-story “House of Davidson” began on the last day of 1972. The design of the hotel will feature a unique 200-foot lobby in the style of Atlanta's Regency Hyatt House. The architecture of the hotel will conform to that of the Davidson Campus with 180 white Corinthian columns flanking the carriage driveway.

“The lobby will be very exciting,” described Cornell. “We are striving for a sort of neo-Baxter Davidson room look. Billious green paneling will be framed by floor-to-ceiling brocade draperies which will part to reveal French doors looking out on a restful garden.” Cornell said that in keeping with the close college affiliation, the hotel has ordered 350 feet of leather books for a reading room. In keeping with the color scheme of the hotel, the books will be ordered in blocks of red, green, and blue. Every effort will be made to ensure that one color does not predominate.

The leasing office of the hotel has already received a number of inquiries from interested parties. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan has requested the Bombay suite equipped with Indian decor and bamboo rugs. Professor of Philosophy Earl McCormac is negotiating with the hotel for its isolated top floor penthouse suite with a portrait of Alonza Cohen hung over the hearth.