Phillips Seeks SGA Activity, Fears General Student Apathy
By BETSY ALEXANDER
Staff Writer

What manner of man is this Bo Phillips to whom is entrusted the duties of student government executive for the coming school year? He is serious about his job, about his reasons for wanting it, and about what he hopes to accomplish as student body president.

The first priority is the improvement of the overall system of governance, a goal he does not expect to achieve in one year. Specifically, Phillips would like to see student representation on faculty committees. “I want to see recognition by the faculty that students are responsible and can contribute to their decisions,” he said.

Phillips also plans a study of subsidized football done by the Faculty Athletic Committee, an approach that hasn't been tried before. He would also like “to give smaller sports a better break financially.”

On the subject of student apathy, Phillips took note of the “myopic visions of students.” “Students care about the academic calendar. That's where students get aroused,” he said. “The short-term problems that affect the convenience of the student—to me that’s a little sort of thing.

“If I were to try to get students interested in student government, 70 percent wouldn’t understand it or care to understand it,” he said. Less than two-thirds of the Scruggs Senate are active in any sense of the word from September to January. “That'll be one of my first priorities, to get the Senate active,” he said.

Phillips, a political science major, has a long history of involvement in social service. “My Dad was a medical missionary and I was brought up with a sense of duty to the rest of the world. I marched in civil rights marches when I was 10 years old and in high school there were trips to Washington to protest the war about twice a year.”

Last summer, he worked in Washington as the second youngest full-time worker for Ralph Nader, investigating Congress and the government. “This weekend, among other things, I have to finish a chapter for a book that comes out next month on the results of our investigations last summer,” he said.

Phillips relaxes with music and basketball, but confesses that “I’m better at music than at basketball.” He played in a band with five other guys during high school at Chapel Hill. “Four of them are recording now, two are named Taylor,” he said.

The future holds graduate school, either in law or political science. “I'd like to serve the government in some way, not necessarily in politics,” he said.

As part of his duty, Phillips plans to maintain pressure on projects already in practice, such as co-education, “to stick tacks in the seats of the administration.” “I want to get some people on important committees, find some new blood, female blood in some instances, such as on the Education Committee and the Student Life Committee,” he said.

“I like to think I'm creative, but I guess my best accomplishment is being able to deal with people. I have no delusions about doing a lot of things these guys promise to do. I don't expect great student cheers. I want to get done those things that need to be done.”

The Davidsonian - February 2, 1973 Page Three
(Staff photo by Goodman)

I AM THE PRESIDENT
Bo Phillips prepares to tackle governance.

Health Physics Program Begun
By MARK DEATON
Staff Writer

A new undergraduate program in health physics with Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee has been initiated at Davidson College this year to educate students to con-

Hartford Head Mid-Winters
By VAL VAN HORN
Staff Writer

A casino, a concert featuring Earl Scruggs and John Hartford, and a do-it-yourself ice cream bar will highlight this year’s mid-winters weekend February 16-18.

The winter festival will get under way Friday night with a concert by Ed and Bob Dawson, The Dawson Boys, at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium. The Dawsons have performed several times at Davidson including a set during Spring Frolics last year. Since then their style has undergone some changes as a result of a national coffeehouse tour which they made last summer and this fall. During the tour they played such places as the Castaways and The Bitter End in New York. Most of their material is original, written by Ed.

The Dawson Boys will be followed by the “Son of Movie Orgy” at 10:30 p.m. in Chambers Banquet Hall. “Son of Movie Orgy” is a three and one-half hour continuous film consisting of the highlights of various 1950s films. “It's a collage and conglomeration without any plot,” according to Jim Campbell, president of the Union. Schlitz beer will be served free of charge at the movie.Saturday's entertainment begins with a casino party starting at 2 p.m. in Chambers Banquet Hall. The casino will feature such gambling games as blackjack, roulette, dice, and craps. The price is 50 cents for 25 chips; however, each customer is limited to only 25 chips. “But for those of you whose luck is phenomenally bad and you lose all your chips at the beginning, you may buy some new chips and start over,” said Campbell. The games last from 2-4 p.m., after which an auction will be held until 5 p.m. during which students may use their chips to bid for merchandise.

Saturday night John Hartford will play an hour set at 9 p.m. in Love Auditorium followed by another hour set featuring Earl Scruggs. Known for his guitar and banjo playing, Hartford became well known when he was a regular on the “Glen Campbell Show.” He is also the writer of “Gentle On My Mind.” Earl Scruggs is the other half of “Flatt and Scruggs.” He is the originator of the Scruggs method of banjo playing and he will be accompanied by his two sons, who have recently released an album on their own. From 11 p.m. until 2 a.m. der Rathskeller will present Rob Miller at the piano. “The atmosphere will be informal, just a wander-in-and-sit-down affair with an open bar,” Campbell said. For the finale of Mid-Winters, there will be an ice cream bar at all Slater's houses from 2-3 a.m. at which students may create their own sundaes, floats, and other fountain treats. Supplementing the Union program, houses around Patterson Court will hold parties throughout the weekend.

“Concepts of radiation as it affects man and his environment. With the extensive use of rays in modern medical practice and in the rapidly expanding nuclear energy industry, it becomes increasingly apparent that there will be urgent demands for health physicists with bachelor of science degrees,” said John Hopkins, chairman of the Davidson physics department. Hopkins, who served for eight years as advisor to a health physics graduate study program sponsored by Vanderbilt University and Oak Ridge, expressed concern that X-rays are overly used. “My principal interest in health physics is based on the fact that experts in genetics find that radiation poses a threat to the genetic structure in children, pregnant women, and unborn children,” Hopkins explained. “You can be X-rayed to death,” he added.

“This program with Oak Ridge just came up last summer, and we're one of the few colleges which could get a program started this year,” Hopkins indicated. “There has never been an undergraduate program on the Bachelor of Science level in health physics before now,” Hopkins said. A major in health physics is offered at Davidson upon successful completion of courses in math, biology, chemistry, physics (including the two new courses in health physics), and two 12-week sessions at Oak Ridge Laboratory. “This makes up a fairly neat package,” said Hopkins. Hopkins indicated that the courses in health physics are also available as part of the general physics course offerings. “This program wasn't approved by the Educational Policy Committee until near the end of fall term,” Hopkins explained. “I'm really pleased with the number of students who have expressed interest in this program on such short-range notice,” he added.

Physics 123, the first of two health physics courses, was initiated in winter term with Hopkins as the professor. David Mast, a student currently enrolled in Physics 123 said, “The health physics program allows a physics major to get a job in a science-related field without having to go to graduate school. There's an increasing need for jobs in health physics as we go further into nuclear power.” Bruce Baird, a pre-med major also in the course, expressed interest in doing graduate work in radiology. “I think the health physics major opens up another door for science-oriented people,” said Baird. Physics majors Jeff Allender and Robert Camp both indicated their desire to have taken the health physics course had it been offered last year. “It’s definitely an important frontier in medical research,” said Allender. “Health physics can be invaluable in determining safety precautions needed for mankind's successful transition into a nuclear society.” “I think health physics is a good field to go into to almost assure you of a job,” said Camp. “It’s especially good for all the pre-meds who can't make it.”

IN TODAY’S GENRE
Raun MacKinnon, writer and performer, will sing at the Chamber's Night Club tomorrow night at 8 p.m. in Chambers Banquet Hall. Her music is considered by most critics to possess a fresh and innovative quality. She sings folk, pop, and gospel while she accompanies herself on the piano and acoustic guitar.