Page Eight February 9, 1973

Have you ever wondered what it takes to work as a school mascot? Dave Bender, the Davidson Wildcat, will tell you it takes about 10 to 15 pounds of sweat per game. “Sure it gets hot in there,” said the sophomore math major. “But it has its advantages.”

The biggest advantage Bender sees in it is the positions he obtains. “It is a great observation place,” he said. “You can really watch the girls. It is just like wearing a pair of sunglasses.”

The job Bender holds down is physically strenuous. The paper mache Wildcat head weighs 25 pounds. Bender really loves the job, though. “The little kids love it too. I give away at least three or four autographs per game,” he explained. “I sign them ‘The Cat’.”

As one might expect, transporting a 25-pound head to away games might present problems. That is especially true since it will not fit into the trunk of any car. Usually, Bender simply ties it into the trunk. But when Davidson traveled to William and Mary last month, it was raining and he could not tie it down in the trunk. So he and a helper squeezed it into the front seat of a car and drove to Williamsburg with the head next to the driver. “Try that for five hours,” laughed Bender.

This is Bender's second year as mascot for the Wildcats. He has donned the old warmup suit and headed for many contests since the middle of the 1971-72 basketball season. He first became interested in college mascots while he was a high school student in Pennsylvania at Springfield High. He made frequent trips to the Philadelphia Palestra, where the St. Joseph's Hawk, one of the all-American mascots, operates.

“One of my biggest thrills as The Wildcat was last year when we went to the NIT in New York. I got to meet my idol, the St. Joe Hawk, while we were there,” said Bender. “I would love to go back to the Palestra and do a game.”

Maybe his feelings will be taken into consideration when future schedules are being compiled. One of the abilities that is required of most mascots is to perform in the halftime one-on-one contests. The Wildcat is doing far better at this than his team, 12-8 on the year, is doing. Bender is undefeated thus far in this competition. He beat the Indian from William and Mary, tied the well-known Duke Blue Devil, grabbed a scoreless tie with the South Carolina Gamecock, and swamped the Princeton Tiger and N.C. State Wolf with forfeits.

“The Wolf and the Tiger claimed that they could not shoot in their costumes. They should try doing it with a 25-pound Wildcat head on their shoulders,” Bender challenged.

At any rate, Davidson has a mascot that it can be proud of. It takes a lot of determination to do a job that gets little recognition for providing so much school spirit. Perhaps there will be a time when The Wildcat pulls a trick similar to the Blue Devil, who has been known to roost on a goalpost at football games and gingerly jab refs in the posterior at other contests.

Prediction Time

Look for the Cats to snatch one from The Citadel tomorrow by at least 12 points. As for the Furman contest, I am going for the hometown boys by three in a 92-89 thriller. After the two wins, the Cats will not choke in the big one against Appalachian, winning by 25 or more in a runaway. It looks like another regular season title for the Cats from here.

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Following a romp over VMI, the Davidson Wildcats return home tomorrow night to tangle with The Citadel in the first of three home contests. The 1:38 pm regionally televised contest begins a three-game home stand for the Cats. The Cats have a chance to capture the Southern Conference regular season crown if they can beat the Bulldogs tomorrow, trip Furman on Monday, and beat Press Maravich’s Appalachian squad next Thursday.

“We will really be out to win these next three,” said Davidson Head Coach Terry Holland.

The Citadel sports two sharp shooters in Steve Fishel and Chuck Cordell, who are averaging 17.8 and 14.3, respectively, for the Bulldogs. Fishel is the fourth-leading scorer in the conference.

“They have a good, solid team,” expressed Holland. “We will have to stop their offense and run on them ourselves.”

The Bulldogs have the best defense in the conference, allowing only 67 points per game. “Defensively we will go with our usual pressure game,” said Holland. “They will probably see primarily a half-court press, with some pressure on a full-court basis.”

The Furman rematch will be the highlight game of the home stretch. “We are just going to have to hit the boards better than we have ever hit them in order to win,” explained the Cat mentor.‘It was really hard to tell from the last game who was the best team. That game was just a farce from the foul standpoint,’ Holland was referring to the game in which the Wildcats were called for 41 fouls. Fessor Leonard paces the Paladins at a 19.7 mark. The Cats will also have to contend with the big front line for the Furman club. ‘If we can play our game and shoot well, plus get enough rebounds, then we will have a good chance to win,’ said Holland. The Cats wind up their regular Southern Conference season slate with the Mountaineers of Appalachian. Holland is looking for a ball control game on the part of Maravich’s team, but feels that they won't hold the ball on us. The Mounties are led in the scoring column by Dan Davis, who is hitting at an average of 22.8. It will take an all-out effort to swing through this tough home stand undefeated. That is the task that faces the Wildcats now. Holland feels that the Cats are becoming more aggressive offensively, which is what the big problem was in close losses to West Virginia, Duke, and St. John's. Davidson has won 67 of its last 68 games in Johnston Gym. Their win streak of 13 games over The Citadel dates back to the 1961-62 season. The Wildcats still pace the Southern Conference in scoring and in shooting percentage, though the latter statistic has tapered off somewhat in recent games. The Wildcats are now hitting on 49.4 percent of their shots from the floor. A 60 percent night against VMI in their last outing broke the recent slump. The conference-leading scoring mark is 84.2 points per game. The Cats will direly need most of that total in any of their remaining contests. Presently, the Cats are second in the conference with a 6-1 record. They are seeking their sixth consecutive regular season crown and eighth in the last nine years. Junior winger John Falconi leads the Cat scoring with a 16.4 average. Greg Dunn, with 20 against VMI, is up to 14.3. T. Jay Pecorak and Mike Sorrentino round out the double-figure scorers at 11.4 and 10.5, respectively. Larry Horowitz leads three Cats that are shooting at fifty percent or better. He is hitting at 51.6 while Dunn is at 51.1 and Falconi at 50.0. Horowitz has also provided strong board play in the last four games with 11.9, 13, and 11 rebounds in those contests.

SPRINGING FOR THE SCORE
John Knox dives for the Wildcats.

Tankers Lose In Tough Meets
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

The swimming team entered into what Coach Ted Severn said would be the hardest part of the season last week. After an easy win over Johnson C. Smith last week, the team was defeated by Augusta by a score of 70-32. ‘That's what happens when a subsidized team meets an unsubsidized team,’ summed Severn's opinion of the meet. ‘I don't feel that we did badly against Augusta, they were just too strong for us. As a matter of fact, just about everyone lowered their times,’ he added. Severn also noted that several of the team members were unable to compete because of the flu. Tuesday, the team dropped what he termed, ‘the tightest meet of the year,’ to Appalachian by a 64-49 score. The final score was somewhat deceptive as the meet was decided by the last two events. Severn felt that the team turned in its best performance of the year. ‘If we had just gotten a few breaks, we could have won the meet,’ Severn said. This feeling was echoed by breaststroker Rusty Saylor. ‘I feel that we could beat them if we swam them again, it was just a real close meet,’ Saylor said. Severn cited several individuals for their efforts in the meet. ‘Pete Alfred did an excellent job for us in the short freestyle events. John Knox did an outstanding job in the diving for us too,’ Severn stated. He also said that he was very pleased with Rusty Saylor and Deren Ferris, both of whom had missed several meets with the flu. Two school records were broken in the meet, by Jack Doscher and John Scholer. Doscher set a new record in the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 2:15.8, and Scholer broke the 1000-yard freestyle mark with a time of 11:39.3. Severn was especially pleased with Scholer's time. ‘He just clipped it by several seconds without much effort,’ he noted. The team is currently preparing for their biggest meet of the season according to Severn. They will swim against Emory in Atlanta today in what Severn expects to be the closest meet of the year. ‘Right now our record is 3-3,’ Severn said, ‘but based on what the team has shown in the last couple of meets, I still predict a winning season.’