Twelve October 26, 1973: The Davidsonian

Improved Cat Offense Faces Falcons Tomorrow

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Coming off an impressive performance against the William and Mary Indians last week, the Davidson football team will challenge the
Falcons of the Air Force Academy tomorrow.

Looking at Air Force for a minute, it appears that they are not quite as strong as they have been
in past years. With a 2-3 record for the season, they return home from a 42-0 smashing at the hands
of such a rival as Navy, which kept alive a three-game losing streak. They have been primarily a running team
as their overall statistics show. But against Penn State, they took to the air for almost 300 yards. So their
offensive attack will be versatile. Defensively, they will be more susceptible to the run than to the pass. They have
given up twice as many rushing yards as they have given up through the air. They have, however, intercepted only
three passes all year.

Until coming to life against the Indians, the Cat rushing attack appeared to be null and void. But Dave Ingold
and Larry Hardaway, along with Steve Still and Alton McCallum, came through in the clutch. Head coach Dave Fagg will
be seeking to repeat the performance in Colorado Springs tomorrow. “We really put up a great fight last week,” Fagg
commented. “We started to put it all together.” The idea presently in question is whether or not the Cats can
do it again. It will be interesting to see if the Cats can bounce back after the heartbreaking loss to
the Indians last week, just when victory appeared within their grasp.

AROUND THE END of a tough, defensive soccer match resulting in a 1-0 Davidson victory over The Citadel last Saturday,
Bill Hawk and Bill Vaughan had outstanding performances. “We showed them good ball control and a steady defense,” commented first-year
soccer coach Chip Stone. Stone was most enthusiastic in his praise for junior goalie Donnie Bain’s performance in Charleston, S.C.
Individually, Stone credited sophomores Tom Blackwood and Grizzard. “I was also pleased with Grizzard's play because this was the first
time he has been able to go full speed since an early season foot injury,” added Stone.

LETTER TO THE SPORTS EDITOR

This past Saturday afternoon, Davidson College's football team suffered its worst defeat ever in a contest vs. N.C. State at
Raleigh. The final score was 68-0. According to club president Eric Scharling, the State club was not that much better
than some of the other teams we have faced this season. “We were beaten so badly simply because we could
only get 13 players together to try to play a physically larger and obviously far deeper squad.” The Davidson club
fielded a 37-man squad for the previous weekend's home contest against Winthrop. So why could we roust only 13 bodies
for last Sunday's game? The answer has a lot to do with the philosophy of club football at Davidson.

The Davidson club was founded last fall by Carl Ritzzo (graduated) to provide people on the Davidson campus who did
not have either the time or the ability to play varsity ball with the opportunity to be a part of
a football program. Davidson was granted membership in the now nine-team North Carolina Club Football Association, and a large number
of people got to play football “just for the fun of it.” The school administration has since helped the program
financially, and the Football Office has been very generous in supplying needed equipment. Club Football was instituted at Davidson as
just a recreational activity, nothing more. The club has always tried to function around the other factors impinging on a
student's time. The prevalent attitude has always been...That club football is a ‘fun’ activity and should not take precedence over
more important student concerns. Because of this philosophy, the team fielded on a given weekend may look very different from
the one of the week before. This has almost always been the case. But last week the point was carried
to an extreme as the majority of club members seemed to run into conflicts. I myself had a conflict with
studies. The N.C. State 13 (Scharling, Rollie and Tom White, Keith Golgart, John Yeoman, Jimmy Boyd, Bill Bradford, Tony Thompson,
Lester Abberger, John Moon, Bill Lloyd, Max Turner, and Carlyle Sherrill) are deserving of praise in spite of the final
score. They wanted to play football and did so against virtually unbeatable odds because the opportunity was there. That opportunity
will be present as long as people want to play for the fun of it. Hopefully, more people will be
able to take advantage of this opportunity in the future. According to indications from many who were unable to make
last week's game, that will be the case tomorrow as the Davidson club takes on Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond.

Bob Wetzel
Vice President, Football Club
Davidson, N.C.
(Staff Photo by Goodman)

One of the keys to the recent improvement in the Davidson offense has been the running of Dave Ingold. The
senior halfback has been bothered by nagging injuries all season but came back to gain 93 yards in 14 carries
against William and Mary last Saturday. In all, Ingold amassed 300 yards in the all-purpose running category. Ingold hopes to
repeat this performance against the Air Force Academy in tomorrow's game.

Booters Squeak By Citadel 1-0 On Lone Goal By Grizzard
By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

The game's only goal was scored by freshman Bob Grizzard in the Citadel game. “Bain’s performance was vital to a
predominantly defensive game like this one and he made some great saves,” commented Stone. One of Bain's plays included the
blocking of a difficult one-on-one penalty kick towards the end of the game. Bain is now filling in for regular
goalie sophomore John Mitchell who is presently sidelined with a severely bruised hip. The Citadel came into the game with
an impressive 8-2 record but as a result of its loss to Davidson, the Bulldogs now stand 0-1 in the
conference. Davidson's record now stands 5-4-1 and 2-1 in the conference. The Citadel victory is the third win in a
row for the comeback-minded Wildcats. Tuesday, Davidson will play St. Andrews, a team with a winning 8-2-1 record.

PIEDMONT BANK & TRUST COMPANY
112 South

Harper Sets S. C. Record
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Davidson finally unveiled its vaunted aerial show last Saturday, almost upsetting William and Mary before succumbing 50-35. The Cats’ 35
points were not only the most they had put on the scoreboard all season, it doubled their entire production this
year. The team was paced by quarterback Dave Harper who completed 38 out of 57 passing attempts for 374 yards.
Harper's efforts were good enough for a new school and conference record. He was also named Southern Conference Offensive Player
of the Week. “The offense finally got together out there and overall, it was just a fantastic performance by the
whole unit,” commented head coach Dave Fagg. “After the game, I just told the team that even though they lost,
they had every right in the world to be proud of that performance,” he continued. Davidson indeed deserved Fagg’s praise
as the four to five touchdown underdogs led the Indians 20-13 at the half. The Cats were in the game
throughout the second half as well, coming back to within two points of their opponents until the Indians capped a
58-yard scoring drive with five minutes left in the game.

(See HARPER, page 15)

shh! listening zone
NORTHWESTERN
The Quiet Company, Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036
College Agents
Brad Tipler
Dick Richardson
Rollie White
Bill Smith
Mike Pappas
MEMBER FDIC
