Staff Writer

The long ball came back to the Cats this game as both George Weicker and Mark Rodgman hit some long
home run shots.

These three losses pushed the Cats' record back to 9-14 with a problem. “We keep having men on base and
can't seem to get the runs around,” Burris commented.

There have been several games this season when the team has stranded as many as twelve men on base during
the game. Burris has tried to remedy the situation to no avail by juggling the lineup in the past few
games.

Burris felt that the other factors responsible for the team's dismal plunge have been errors and pitching.

“Overall, the boys have played great defense, it just hasn't been enough,” Burris added. “It's really tough not to get
discouraged when you keep losing and you know you can beat the other team.”

The next game for the Wildcats will be today against Baptist College. It will mark the pitching debut of Pete
Celantano who is laying down his statistics pencil.

Tew Anchors Cat Staff

By MARK CONNORS
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson baseball team, recently plagued with a bad luck streak, has relied heavily on the arm of freshman Joel
Tew.

Tew, the Cats’ premier pitcher, hails from Wauchula, Fla. Although interested in the University of Florida and offered a scholarship
at Southern Florida Junior College, Tew decided to come to Davidson because “I wanted to go to a small school,
and wherever I went I wanted to play baseball. I had a great deal of correspondence with Coach Stevens and
I decided an out-of-state school like Davidson is what I really wanted.”

At present, Tew is planning a career in law, with an undergraduate degree in economics.

“I might change my mind though,” Tew stressed.

Up to this point, he has found Davidson to be very interesting.

“I’ve really enjoyed this year. The competition has been real strong and the success I've had with baseball has really
helped me get along and enjoy everything,” he commented.

Tew has been one of the keys to the baseball team this year. He presently has a 4-2 record with
wins against William and Mary, Baptist College, Methodist College, and Guilford. His losses came against ECU and Furman.

“The loss against ECU was a close one and I only pitched four innings in the Furman game,” commented Tew.

Although the baseball team’s record has suffered somewhat just recently, Tew felt that their early season play was indicative of
the kind of ball that Davidson was capable of playing.

“It just seems that we got jinxed,” said the Cats’ right-handed ace.

However, Tew expressed optimism in future Wildcat baseball.

“A majority of the team is returning next year and most of us will have another two years together. I
just hope that next year we will be able to play the kind of baseball we're capable of playing,” Tew
said.

Tew stressed the key role new head coach Jack Burris has played in the baseball program this year.

Hunter Goes To Regatta

By JOHN McELVEEN
Staff Writer

Due to complications in scheduling, the single-hand sailing championships, originally scheduled for last weekend, will be held this weekend.

Though Daryl Douglas had planned to participate in this S.A.I.S.A. regatta, he has a conflict; MCATs will be administered the
same weekend.

Consequently, Jimmy Hunter will replace Douglas and attempt to gain a second berth in the National Single Hand Competition.

Unfortunately, this S.A.I.S.A. regatta, as well as MCATs, conflicts with the “Lake Norman Invitational” regatta to be held at the
Lake Norman Yacht Club. Six of Davidson's “Jets” will make up one division in this large-scale regatta. Over 180 boats
will participate.

Frank Somerville, who has been quite active on the Sailing Team, and who participated in this regatta last year, is
favored.

ABORTION

ABORTION GUIDANCE
An Abortion can be arranged within 24 hours and you can return home the same day.

CALL TOLL FREE
(800) 523-4436
A Men From 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. — 7 days a week

baseball doesn't get enough attention.

“I don’t think we get the support we deserve. We've got a few people that follow us fairly close, but
overall, as compared to other sports, we lack support,” Tew said.

The Davidsonian — May 4, 1973

Page Nine

HEADS UP
Joel Tew anchors Wildcat pitching staff.

King’s Sirloin
Mooresville
8 Oz. — $2.25 12 Oz. — $3.25
USDA Choice Sirloin
663-2832 Intersection of 21 at 115
LUNCH
Tuesday - Friday Sunday Buffet

We propose to show our fellow beer drinker a natural beer. A beer without additives or chemical preservatives. For a
natural Rheingold taste you just can't find in other beers.

“I have entered on an enterprise which is without precedent, and will have no imitation. I propose to show my
fellows a man as nature made him, and this man is myself.”

Natural Rheingold
We know how you feel about beer
