P2z° Twe ary a) dJaruar-. i? i Ske Bavitsonian

Davidson Broadens Academic Horizons

Ze ello beds - a -o@ 2° oD Sty tale OT oe, SO ge em ne ali a a or ae ta eat ere at a Ee oy ogre SU ORT A eer. 5 _ as “ATR A Dae 2° Seog Tre Ergist teta7 ce te ROOT, 2 rR eS! e ecgrer “OR ROP Ueme orrerenen " SAEME. 2 teetire progres. of “TA SIN acre OF Le Feu. a Biever Tre ny prerergosite Ta tre kere Cz 7 tre He ere 3 hee eer cee pre ae o. Fem tere irtetectet rar. a Aa oT. Lge erating m1. “e flere Heer, Jorvaur or ATE TS De AT ms. Tee e Te CRTC Ra nae te ise. esa, Mar. etcrasriers care STA Ta trie ZT Horaert Rare2gs. ai, offer z ate 2. Here tn Mosgcr, Cf! CPNiege ant tne walter cer of Te ITE 8, CET TOE OM. he omenef ts oF an Honors Cphege bruce’ sr. The rengite. eperirner’ .. of fering 2 Meperimeritze. wtuc. oF. The: Efferts of Biacn Setuete. plased 2° Varvus Soeerk ow Astnese OLE Se AL. ail Ones Went Bats and ke.mer oO ; tn anys wee Awd: pian e Curse oT Hera feet nin Prior, Tre tere ut me re. pregrety. ih “suppl. tne pr. wr. with. evar. Tienprraet yw ie spring ‘utorindg prugrart. a... te aOO' Tate BOCUTO.1E '% Rust Ioear Ricnard Burts ili offer F seminar or. The Organization ane Inner Workings Of the Americar. University Svsterr. This course will te offered each term wa ig Spring Term rae ere Be Of re cr mee vo ve * i wre te Me a te 200 2 Pe ee ae PY a the Ta eae 7g rome 7 Og m7 “2 "2 wore ee ad ~-~ nye o Po as ° sag COT 7 Te OP lee aret cer 2 louse A Se Ce ore. weg Anwner S$.te ui be i One BISSBITSIIG Dik wee re Ine. eet A te Sature Lear Ce OF expe nec ina we 225 TWRET. primer... 20Cees um... Tesor. Lrarector 7 Hae I. ne nes. OE 8 ; Wa Be. fers of (ne Cam pes ant SR BEUIIE MS ETO Lk. Srosr aarti cc ecula rome: We yee te. fel eg Te per Ub te Trey of ne re. etvl ues! DOS Te oon! SLporen Woh@ WO KeOL 0. Tone mere iw une (arte 450 ‘nese tun nay “BET. OS OMA IIET eg Ue neers Ag: 3 a hoe. Meriners of tne conege Como murit. Se tn seca According (1 Dear of Stuaer.- ts Wo. HO Term tne cinse proxi. of Une future un.or. i We Mera nrat Bree IS LS MOK iM porte t From, ¢ pure. practice: Stendpoiun’ Terr. sed 8 UOT Cigse th ine Wat 3s ALE Uel Superior to tne previous s.tuat.or. SGA Pres.der Reipr. Peepies alsy expresied rare satisfactior. auth the nev. loce ior end nopec that no ali students sould pe able to lake an interest in its ac- Liv ies Mabe nov those feeture GISLSSILPPTIISSTIOTTSOLATLLSSSSSLS SDSL ASDA LLLSLLSA LD LLLDLLA ASMA D

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors:
DOUG BROWN
ALEC HOON

Sports Editor:
JOE EARLE

News Editor:
TOM AINSWORTH

Photography Editor:
BILL BARNES

Assistant Managing Editors:
BOB HOWELL
BRUCE MALOY
THOM NICOLE
MIKE TANNER

Assistant Features Editor:
JOHN CASSELS

Copy Editor:
BILL ALLETT

Assistant Sports Editors:
DAVID ARLTON
JIM SITTER
RSHN GORDON
WIDENHOLE SE.

Contributors this week:
Peter Gosinsa
Porge Coser
Freddy Avs
Obistopa!
Alex Karras
Den Pas
Gedd Awana
Kippertitios
Duster Hituany
Stones Dick
Klasher ba
Snest Heer

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
ROBERT TOUCCHTON
GRAY WILSON

Contributing Editors:
TOM BRUCE
TODD EADES
RICHARD ROMEYN

Photographers:
JIM DAVIS
PETE GOODMAN
ROB PETERSON

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKOM
PAUL MITCHELL
JOHN LEMMON

Assistant Business Managers:
CLIFF KIRK
RICHARD ROMEYN
RICH SMITH
PHIL STIFES

Circulation:
VELL

Director:
Howard Hedda Hopper
Nelson Merit!
Juss Leck
Nizon
Balla Hoar
Josephine Arnold
the Pig
Mr. Zitile
Irvine B. Javine
and Jerry Mathers as the Beaver

Published weekly at Davidson College during the (Lah "uGetr sof ut ~ ard Cla - pe awe Poko widsun NC Zenit ores pondence 'o THE. DAVIDOONTIAN, Box 216. Dave 6 0 gas Yeur., sub 2eriphian rate $4 00

LILES LI SLEDS OE ISI IL ELE ELLE

NEW UNION LOCATION - See arrow for location of the new Union.

Union Plans Released

SET OT e etnletics bo. Bit Ber L.pele es peciai: Wo. a 7h ome neermess of the TA Tae re tn ne |atmetic COT ney Pettnen sec we OT. Vader Hous.ng NignG.s 48% enotner NE Conese COMM: Bl ane eX Dressed appro. a, rootne and poss, Espec.ai. in oan of tne neignt of tne new Mung the iecetiorn is per: feo’ she said I imagine “nat tne view of “he lake frorr. tne garden on top ‘al Ge Geautifu. Who knows Taste tnere s an office for me uptnere she speculated Doren yt Mot. were oper rea ste Gis. tes tts However. noleverone seem-> 'o be entirely in faver of the anole affair Sophormnure Wi. Robertson complained of tne distance of the site from. wna’ he considered tobe the focal area of the campus. I for one don’t feel like walking out of the front door of the new union and smelling cow pies,” said Social Chairman Jim Campbell. When asked his thoughts, he was most helpful in giving an actual description of the future structure. Campbell explained that its initial visual impact, created by the Neo-Baroque Polynesian facade, would prepare those who enter for the treats in store on the inside. The central feature of the museum would be a Roman-style atrium surrounded by an open-air arcade which would house the booths that would serve as office space for anyone who particularly wanted it. Campbell went on to explain that the atrium itself would be planted with young pecan and pear trees and will be highlighted by a central wet fountain displaying a life-size bronze statue of whoever will pose. “Personally,” Campbell said, “I’m hoping that there’ll be room for my aquarium too.”

Burts Introduces Alternative Registration By Computer

A much less inefficient computerized course scheduling system has been devised to further ease registration for classes, according to Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. A team of technical engineers had been working with an IBM 1500 computer for the past nine years to develop the new system. “It’s really quite simple,” he said. “In all the systems we've had in the past, we've tried to make the process as personal as possible. This fall we encouraged students to spend extra time consulting with their faculty advisors; consequently, 95 percent of the student body had to rearrange their schedules. Now we plan to solve these problems by using the principle of random order in every phase of registration,” Burts explained. “To avoid confusion, all students will register at the same time in either Eu Hall or the basement of Cannon Dormitory. When he enters the registration room, a student will be handed 14 computer cards. The first three are for his alpha number, home telephone number, and his birth date. Two cards will be filled in by the student’s advisor or roommate, whichever is older. Six are for the student’s preferences for courses, and three are for his lunch order. We hope to get volunteers from the SGA Senate to help collect cards, pass out lunches, and take attendance.”

“The method for filling out the course preference cards is a bit tricky,” Burts noted. “The student’s name, first name last, goes in the lower left-hand corner. We’re omitting ‘Jr.’ or ‘III’ or ‘Esq.’ this year, unless the student has no middle initial. In that case,” Burts continued, “the name goes in the upper right-hand corner, last name first, with ‘Jr.’ or ‘III’ or ‘Esq.’ in red letters beneath it.” The maiden name of the student’s mother goes on the dotted line if the student has a middle initial and on the solid line if he doesn’t. In either case, the month and year of the student’s last typhoid booster shot goes in the center of the card. “Now, the name of a course the student wants to take is written vertically down the left side of the card,” Burts said, “and the name of the professor of the course down the right side. However, if the mother’s maiden name is longer than six letters, the sides are reversed.” The other five cards are filled out in approximately the same manner. To determine the order of preference, the student may either flip a coin or roll dice. “We experimented with counting potatoes but ruled out that method as too complicated. Besides, it really doesn’t have very much to do with academics,” he observed.

Once the cards have been properly completed, they will be collected and filed for later reference. “The computer will draw up a random order of all the courses to be offered, with each course entered as many times as there are spaces in the class,” Burts said. “The name of every student will be entered three times and another random order will be drawn up. Then the computer will print out one list of courses and one list of student names. The two will be pasted together side by side, and members of the Registrar’s Office will cut the double list into horizontal strips and put together each student’s schedule.” He anticipates no problems whatsoever and will abolish the formal drop-add period.

SGA President Ralph Peeples was pleased with the new system. “It’s simple and it’s just,” he said. “I can’t believe it happened at Davidson.” He was nevertheless concerned about the Senate’s role in the process. “I don’t know about handing out those lunches. What does he think we are, waiters or something? We would like to help with the pasting and cutting, though.”

Richard M. Nixon, President of the United States, will give the annual Phi Beta Kappa Address on Jan. 23 at 8 p.m. in Phi Hall. He will speak on “The Limits of Executive Power.” The public is cordially invited to attend.