Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

RICH WILSON, Editor-in-Chief; WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR JANUARY 19, 1973

Another Calendar Needed

The academic calendar drawn up by the administration for next year has been received with almost complete disapproval from students, and for this and other reasons, we fully support the alternative calendar which was unanimously approved by the Student Senate at its Tuesday night meeting.

On looking at the administration's calendar one would be led to believe that a worse calendar could not have been drawn up if one had desired to so purposely. It is basically the calendar we have this year, only with its drawbacks accentuated. Again we will be starting classes later than most other colleges, for the Fall term does not begin until September 19. Yet we can live with the Fall term. The real objections are to the Winter and Spring terms. As the Senate has pointed out, it is unwise to start the Winter term on January 2 because this will force hundreds of students to drive on New Year’s Day, which is a hazardous practice to say the least. The five-day break between the Winter and Spring terms is a joke. In reality, students will be working almost non-stop for 20 long weeks without any chance of recuperation. For those fortunate enough to make it through the Winter and Spring terms with strong bodies and minds, they can look forward to getting out at the end of May with no jobs for the summer.

So, the question is: why did the administration draw up such a terrible calendar? Their thinking was not diabolical, as some students have claimed in the last few days, but rather they were attempting to avoid a split Winter term. Some faculty members dislike the split Winter term because certain courses cannot be offered in the Winter term if it is split. The calendar adopted by the Senate calls for a split Winter term, and it is far superior to the one the administration has drawn up. It has not been conclusively shown that splitting the Winter term will be to the disadvantage of the majority of faculty and students.

Fogleman, Stacks Missed

The death early in December of tennis and soccer Coach Harry Fogleman deprived the college of one of its winningest, dedicated athletic coaches. Fogleman, a nationally recognized tennis figure, had compiled a 183-73 record at Davidson since 1961. His tennis teams won championships in 1965, 1966, 1967, 1968, 1970, and 1971. He coached the school’s championship soccer teams in 1970 and 1971.

Fogleman’s tennis reputation stretched far beyond the confines of the Davidson campus, however. Before coming to Davidson he had coached at Duke University, the University of Florida, and the University of Cincinnati. In his years of coaching, more than 125 nationally-ranked players served on his teams. Such are the high honors and national accolades given to Davidson's tennis coach. But a list of awards fails to fully show Coach Fogleman’s contributions to Davidson College. Students will remember him as an outstanding and exacting tennis coach, a teacher in every sense of the word. His devotion to the game made him a stickler, a perfectionist. Fogleman brought to Davidson, one of the NCAA major college division’s smallest members, a distinguished tennis team which competed admirably not only against the larger schools of the Southern Conference, but also against the top tennis schools in the country. He superbly expressed the ideals which Davidson strives to live up to, and stuck by those ideals even when it cost him personally. As such, he was the expression of that challenge, and his life was a fulfillment of it. Always Coach Fogleman was known for his energy, perseverance, and high standards of excellence. Davidson can be grateful such a fine man chose to come to us, and work with us so long and faithfully.

Early this month, death took another such man from the Davidson staff, Clyde W. Stacks, manager of the college laundry. Stacks gave a personal note to an often mechanical process of washing, drying, and preparing clothes. He sought to cheer up students who came in to claim laundry, and always sought to improve the services of his job. Students can be grateful for the personal attention and the concern which Stacks gave to the operation of the laundry. North Mecklenburgers can be grateful for the many long hours of civic work which he contributed to make the area a better place to live. He had served as president of the Davidson Lions Club, the local Legion post, the Toastmasters Club of Charlotte, and the North Mecklenburg High School P.T.A. He was honored by selection as president of the North Carolina Laundry and Cleaners Association. Clyde W. Stacks cared about people, and he cared about institutions like Davidson College. Above all, he used his talents and abilities to their utmost, for the improvement of Davidson College and the well-being of its students.

We can indeed be thankful that two such fine men as these dedicated themselves to Davidson. We can only hope that future staff personnel will give as much to Davidson as these two have.

MARY HOBBIE

GNP Guides Dick While Bombs Fall

I read a remarkable story recently. It was too far-fetched to be taken as a true story, but...I thought it was fascinating. It seems that once there was a very powerful nation called Apathyland. All of the people in this nation were good people. Most of them loved football and fast cars, and almost all of them believed in a powerful god known as the GNP, whom they worshipped constantly. The nation was ruled by a president elected by the good people and selected by the GNP. The president's name was Dick, and he loved football more than any of the good people in Apathyland. Dick was high priest of the GNP, and he was perfectly sure that the GNP had ordained him for the presidency. In fact, the GNP often appeared to Dick in visions to tell him what needed to be done in Apathyland and to give him football tips.

Since Apathyland was such a powerful and good nation, the people believed that they should protect weak nations from bad influences. There was a weak nation named Congland which had some ridiculous notion about being a self-governing power. The people of Congland were misguided. Not only did they not like football, they denied the omnipotency of Apathyland's god, the GNP. Congland had fallen into the evil company of the powerful bad nation of Redland. The people of Redland were all evil. They loved (shudder) chess and worshipped a god named Socialism.

Soon, the different interests in Congland caused the nation to be split into two nations, North Congland and South Congland. When Congland was divided, all the bad people went north and all the good people went south. The people of Apathyland showed their devotion to football by invoking the power of the GNP to convert the people of North Congland. "God is on our side," Dick said. The people of Apathyland discovered a new national sport called "bombing the hell out of North Congland." This sport was considered to be good for the souls of the heathen. The people of Apathyland who were best at the new sport were able to "bomb the hell" out of people without thinking about blood or death or destruction. The new sport was great fun, and Dick recommended it wholeheartedly. He also recommended another new sport called smiling and waving in Paris. The best player of this new sport was an altar boy to the GNP called Henry.

Pretty soon, everybody in Apathyland became expert in the new sports. Some of the people could support bombing (without thinking about death), smile and wave, and watch football all at once. Dick was delighted. Unfortunately, there were wicked people in Apathyland. They said that the two new sports were "immoral," which meant that they couldn't play the bombing game without thinking about death, and they thought that Henry the altar boy had an insincere smile and a crooked wave. Many of these wicked people said they still loved football, but they said that the GNP was an idol and Dick's visions were the result of too much meatloaf. Naturally, the good people of Apathyland were indignant at these heresies and wanted to put all of the wicked people into prison. "The only reason they say things like that is that they can't play the new sports as well as the rest of us can," Dick said. "Besides, I suspect them of being secret agents from Redland." So Dick had many of the wicked people put into prison, and most of the rest of the wicked people decided it would be easier not to say anything. Some of them even learned to play the new sports and became very good at ignoring the destruction the new sports caused in Congland.

The people of Apathyland always continued to be very good, and they continued to love football even with the invention of the new sports. Although Congland was still a favorite mission, other misguided nations were introduced to Apathyland’s sports and the good news of the GNP too. "After all," Dick said, "we're only in Congland to help others and protect and extend the GNP. We're trying to save souls. Ours is a holy mission."

New Calendar Criticized

To the Editor:

When I was informed of the proposed calendar for 73-74, I was shocked to see that once again Winter Term classes were scheduled to begin on Jan. 2, thus causing our return to Davidson on New Year's Day. Since I led the fight last year to have the Faculty Executive Committee move the first day of Winter Term classes up one day to avoid this problem, this issue is very important to me personally. However, upon looking for solutions or alternatives to coming back on New Year's Day, the remedies may be worse than the problem. If we move the Winter Term up one day, we lose a day of an already too short spring break. Since there are already two Saturday classes scheduled this term, a third would be ridiculous. I believe that we should move in the direction of a split Winter Term for several reasons in addition to the alleviation of the problem with New Year's Day. These include a more equalized academic workload before and after Christmas, almost no Saturday classes, a longer Spring break, an earlier start at the beginning of the year, and an earlier beginning of summer vacation (which means a head start on summer jobs). Overall, I believe that a split Winter Term has advantages which outweigh any non-split Winter Term may have.

Vince Rabil ‘75
Davidson College