BETTER LOOK OUT, DAVE

Dave Harper seems unaware of Welcome Wagon.

The Davidsonian
September 14, 1973
Page Nine

Gridders Try For Rebound, Clash With Spiders Saturday

By BRANT BILLS | Staff Writer

The Richmond Spiders are going to meet a defensive unit which is out for vengeance as they clash with the
Davidson Wildcats on Saturday in an important early season conference game. Kickoff is slated for 2 p.m. on Richardson Field.

The inexperienced defensive alignment showed signs of surprising strength against the Wofford Terriers last week. Only Captain Eddie Williamson at
linebacker and tackle Jack Stultz saw regular starting action last year, while senior end Ross Manire has seen extensive play
in a reverse role during the past two seasons.

“Saturday night was one of the finest exhibitions of defensive gang tackling and pursuit I have ever seen,” proclaimed Fagg.

But the offensive unit will have to improve tremendously in order to keep their place as the nation’s number five
offensive team. The key to the offensive success may lie in the hands of All-American flanker Walt Walker and quarterback
David Harper.

“Walt played a tremendous game,” praised Wildcat head coach Dave Fagg. “Not only did he get us yards with the
ball, but his flanking and downfield blocking were just super.

“We have to obtain an offensive discipline and guard against the turnover,” stated Fagg. “So many times plays were stopped
by one little mistake.”

Harper, a junior whose great spring showed promise of another great Wildcat passing season, will need to step up.

Wofford Humbles Cats 23-0 In Opener

By JIM SITTERSON | Sports Editor

Davidson's 1973 football fortunes got off on the wrong foot with a 23-0 loss to Wofford in the opener.

“It was real tough on Dave to throw an interception that early,” Fagg said. “But he showed a lot of
poise throughout the game and did a fine job of leading the team.

“Dave is just a young quarterback and our passing game was just a step off,” Fagg continued. “I think that
Dave was just a little nervous and that next week he’ll throw the way he’s able to,” Fagg added.

Offensively there were a few bright spots for the Cats. Dave Ingold picked up 106 yards in the all-purpose running
category. Walt Walker, who led the Southern Conference with 62 receptions last year (good enough for honorable mention in the
AP All-American poll), pulled in six tosses despite being double-covered on almost every play, particularly in passing situations.

“When last season ended, we thought that defense would be a problem this year,” Fagg said. “But last spring we
had the most enthusiastic hitting we've ever had. Right now it’s the best defense Davidson has had since I've been
here.”

The Cat defense did do a good job, especially in light of the fact that they were on the field
for three quarters of the game. “They just did a super job of holding up,” Fagg noted.

Club Football Snares Key Varsity Dropouts

The club football Wildcats have had tremendous turnouts for their first two practices on Monday and Wednesday in preparation for
their opening game with Duke University’s club team on Sunday. Kickoff time is scheduled for 2 p.m. on the lower
practice field behind the stadium.

About 35 candidates have attended practice on each evening, at least half of these having experience on the Wildcat varsity.

“We were well pleased with the turnout,” stated player-coach Rollie White. “I can remember last year...”Playing with 12 or 15
men. And that's no fun playing with no break. Leno looks extremely strong for the coming season. Heading up the
defensive front four are tackles Sandy Carnagie, Rick Houdy, and Mark Gardner. Linebackers include player-coaches White, Bob Wetzel, Doug Aiken,
and Frank McShane. The offensive team is on the small side but compensates for that with quickness.

"We are going to try to keep the offense with the basics," explained White. "I think that if we master
these few plays, we will have a potentially explosive unit." Brant Bills and John Moon have tied down the two
guard spots while Bruce Reicheldorfer will handle the snapping duties. Frank Roder has filled one tackle slot, while the other
remains open to Carnagie, Tony Boon, or Zack Varnedoe. Trackster Jim Boyd has won signal calling duties. The rest of
the backfield rounds out with fullback Dwight Plemmons and halfbacks Jim Coggin and Don Long. Player-coach Eric "Big E" Sharling
will fill the tight end duties. The split end post has not yet been filled.

"Hustling throughout the entire game," Fagg said. Fagg cited the performances of linebackers Eddie Williamson, Danny Ward, and defensive end
Ronnie Hamilton. The brightest star on the defense, however, was Alan when Jim DeVille was lost for the season. "Alan
played one of the best games at tackle that I've ever seen," Fagg stated. "He has taken up the slack
on the defensive line caused by DeVille’s loss. It would be unreal to imagine how good that unit would be
with Eddie Womack and Jim DeVille."

The two highly touted starters last year, junior linebacker-defensive back Womack and sophomore tackle DeVille, are both out with injuries
which are expected to keep them out of action the entire season. "We were just awfully disappointed that we couldn't
get anything going," Fagg said. "We wanted to win that one badly, but we’ll just have to wait until next
week."

875-6315 | SENIORS HURRY Bring your Registration Cards to Piedmont Bank .... Register for the SANYO PERSONAL REFRIGERATOR. Bonus Prize
of $25 cash IF you are a Piedmont Bank customer (checking or savings). Drawing to be held Saturday, September 22,
1973. PIEDMONT BANK

Bashful, Ltd Small, Quiet & Tasteful Art & Gifts of the Finest Quality UPSTAIRS 118 N. MAIN STREET DAVIDSON, N.C.

SOPHOMORES attack this season, could not shake the first game jitters as many of his passes were overthrown or not
thrown at all. Many times the line failed to do its job, which hindered Harper to a great extent. Harper
did show great ability on several occasions, connecting with Walker and Gary Pomeroy. Several passes were also dropped by intended
receivers.

Richmond has been ranked with East Carolina and William and Mary as preseason favorites for the Southern Conference crown. Many
have picked them to unseat the Pirates as conference champions. The Spider’s biggest asset will be two-time all-conference fullback Barty
Smith, a 6’4” 240-pound senior. "This is fantastic," exclaimed Fagg. "He does everything well." Smith is one of the better
products of the Southern Conference in recent times. Along with Smith, there are eight or 10 junior college transfers who
expect to make this Spider team one of the strongest.

"The Richmond offense has a well-balanced attack which runs and passes well. The Spiders bring in a well-disciplined team which
thrives on consistent execution."
