Page Nine

Some Funny Things Happened. —_eo May 11, 1973

To Me Going To The Derby
By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

With the lack of sporting events occurring on the Davidson campus last weekend, this reporter saw fit to see one
of the great sporting events of the year. Louisville, Ky. is a long way away but it was well worth
the effort to be in the Kentucky Derby crowd. I was among the 134,000 people who witnessed the biggest horse
race of the year. This is not to say that I had a great view of the Derby because those
people who watched it on television had a much better idea of what was going on than I did standing
in the infield. I got to see the horses twice, once right after the start and then again when they
were about 250 yards from the finish line. The rest I had to find out from the race announcer.

Someone might ask why someone would go all the way to Kentucky just to see the horses twice. Before I
went I was asking myself the same question. The answers to this question were many-fold after coming back. First would
have to be the trip out to Kentucky. A freshman, John Mitchell, and I could not convince an owner of
a car on campus to go to the Derby. So we started hitch-hiking at about 6:30 Friday morning. We got
a ride to Statesville and then it took us three rides to get to Hickory, where we waited one hour
for our next ride. The ride, however, was well worth the wait as we were picked up by a man
who was driving a van loaded with carpets to Knoxville. This was my first experience since arriving in the South
three years ago with a member of the KKK. He did not talk that much about the Klan. But since
he did drive his route many times a week, he let us in on all the houses of ill-repute which
could be found between Hickory and Knoxville. He also related to us many stories of looking into cars from his
van. We even stopped to see a girlfriend of his who worked in a truck stop. She was the same
age as his oldest daughter.

After being dropped off by him, my Davidson education came into use as we were picked up by a black
minister. Without even thinking about it we changed our topic of conversation from sex to God. After a short ride
with the minister, we were picked up by three Tennessee frat men in a pickup truck loaded with beer.

New Cage Slate Makes Coaches ‘Enthusiastic’
By CHRIS YOUNG
Staff Writer

The 1973-74 Wildcat basketball coaching staff looks to the coming season with enthusiasm and an air of optimism. The team
will play an extremely challenging schedule, featuring such nationally prominent teams as St. John's, N.C. State, and Notre Dame. The
Charlotte Invitational Tournament should provide some fine, high-spirited basketball as Syracuse, Miami of Ohio (both of which participated in this
year’s NCAA regionals), and Loyola of Chicago come South to the home away from home of the Davidson Wildcats -
Charlotte Coliseum.

Head coach Terry Holland indicated the goals of next year’s squad are very similar to those of this past year.
These include a top-20 rating, a 20-win season, and a berth in the NCAA Eastern regionals. Holland stated that the
team wants to play against the best competition available, and that he was pleased that they will be playing such
teams as N.C. State and Notre Dame while they are national contenders. He noted that the difficult schedule naturally reflects
itself in the team’s record, but that if they do attain their goals it will have been a worthwhile achievement.

Holland pointed out that “we only lose two players from our varsity — one of whom played a substantial amount.
We have nine returning varsity players, all of whom have scored in double figures and played quite a bit.” The
Wildcats’ strength definitely lies in its perimeter players (guards and forwards), all of whom are exceptionally good shooters and ball
handlers. The major problem facing the Wildcat basketball program is the need for a strong, steady, tall center. Much of
the weight would appear to fall on 6'7" Larry Horowitz, 6'9" Sheldon Parker, and 6'9" Eppa Rixey. Unfortunately, Holland said
that there were no 6'11" - 7' big men who could come to Davidson next year, although it looks like
6'9" Steve Trusgnich will enroll at Davidson this fall.

In the Southern Conference, Furman expects to be very strong again next year despite the loss of two starters. Fessor
Leonard (7'2") and Clyde Mayes (6'9") will anchor the Furman squad. William and Mary should be extremely improved as should
Richmond (whichsports such features as a new gymnasium, new players, and old stalwart Aaron Stewart). It appears that the success
of the Davidson Wildcats next year will lie with the ability of the players to compensate in some way for
the lack of a big man, and with the effectiveness of the Wildcat pressure defense.

ABORTION GUIDANCE
An Abortion can be arranged within 24 hours and you can return home the same day you leave!
CALL TOLL FREE (800) 523-4436

COLLEGIATE NOTES
Understand all subjects, plays, and —Thousands of topics available within 48 hours of mailing —Complete with bibliography and footnotes —Lowest
Prices are GUARANTEED
SEND $1.90 for our latest descriptive Mail-Order Catalogue with Postage-Paid Order Forms to:
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH GUIDE
1 N. 13th St. - Rm 706
Phila., Pa. 19107
HOT-LINE (215) 563-3758

They gave us a ride all the way to Louisville for a little gas money. By the time we arrived
in Louisville, the pickup did not have any beer left, the driver consuming a healthy nine bottles. Driving through Louisville,
we ran one red light and almost hit a car. We made it to the University of Louisville still in
one piece, which was hard to believe. Despite the infield being full, the stands were still fairly empty because that
is where the big money was sitting at over $15 a head. They did not show up until just before
the Derby. Betting was another problem. Each race there seemed to be more people in line. It was not uncommon
to wait 20 minutes just to make a $2 wager. That night there were people milling around everywhere and there
were a few parties. U.L. had just finished their exams and there were very few students from there around. Most
of the people were from Ohio, Tennessee, or Kentucky. There were a few from N.C. and some from Virginia. After
a short night of partying, it was time for the track since we hoped to make it to Churchill Downs
around nine the next morning. Upon arriving at the track, we paid $5 to be able to sit in the
infield (the worst seats in the house). Last year it was only $3 but they wanted to keep the “hippies”
out. The first race started at 11:30 and by that time a good deal of the infield was drunk on
liquor which somehow passed through the gates illegally. By this time the infield was wall to wall people and walking
from one side of the track was like running an obstacle course. It was well worth the fight as there
were good-looking girls all over the place. It seemed you bumped into one every five seconds.

PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT
The fine art of foosball as practiced by these two individuals is one of the most popular sports at Davidson.
In light of foosball’s growing popularity, the Union is sponsoring a tournament. Semi-final action will take place on Monday night
and the final will be played on Tuesday night at the Rathskeller.

I got in this line at about 2:10 and was asked by a girl if she was in the right
line. She was. By the time we got close to the window, it was almost three o'clock. I pushed my
way into the window and made my bet. I looked back and the girl had not been able to follow
me so with a move that would have made Coach Holland envious, I used a variation of the pick and
roll, screened off all the other people, and pulled her into the window. I got lucky on the race before
the Derby which made me even and then got close enough to the fence to see Secretariat pass Sham on
the stretch, which made my day. I have been at many sporting events where I have seen more of the
action of the participants. But at very few have I seen this much action by the fans or had more
fun.

“Come forth into the light of things, let nature be your teacher.” — William Wordsworth

We have, and that's why we go through all the trouble to brew a natural beer. A beer without additives
or chemical preservatives. For a natural Rheingold taste you just can't find in other beers.

Natural Rheingold
We know how you feel about beer
© Rheingold Breweries, Inc., New York, N.Y. & Orange, N.J.
