Lottery Leaves
By TOM BRUCE
Associate Editor

Last week's lottery for student housing for fall term left one hundred students without beds. “If you are asking me
what is going to happen, the answer is that no one knows for sure,” explained Mrs. Scotty Nicholls, Director of
Student Housing. “I am starting an all-out campaign to encourage students to live off-campus.

“I believe that there are still rooms available if the students are willing to do the leg work necessary to
find a place. This may mean going all the way to Huntersville,” she said. Nicholls indicated that she has been
on the telephone checking on leads and helping students to run down possibilities. Earlier this year a letter was sent
to every member of the faculty and every person whose name appears on the list of townspeople who are willing
to rent to weekend guests. “The response was very small,” Nicholls reported, “but in light of the situation, I plan
to send out another letter right away.

“I will be calling the real estate offices, looking over the lists of addresses from past years, and granting the
right to move off campus to larger numbers of students than ever before.” Nicholls indicated, however, that administration officials would
like to “avoid having sophomores living off campus,” at the same time acknowledging that the biggest squeeze in the room
situation falls on the sophomore class.

“Actually, the increasing number of incoming freshmen was not the crucial factor in the room shortage,” said Mrs. Nicholls. “We
have had large freshmen classes for the past three years. Therefore, when the admissions office calculated that 713 upperclassmen would
pay the $100 deposit, they were almost 100 students short. This is where the biggest increase has been felt.

“I see no solution except to freeze the enrollment for next year,” commented Nicholls. One pleasant surprise to emerge from
the continuing worry over housing is that the likelihood of students being asked to “double up” has diminished. “Our shortage
is not just rooms, but beds, dressers, and closets. It would be practically impossible to order furniture for next year
without a long wait and a huge capital outlay. Furniture ordered long ago for the center section of Duke Dormitory
will not come before August,” explained Nicholls. “I am very resistant to the idea of students living three to a
room in our dormitories.

“Anyone who has examined this situation should be impressed by the fact that the rooms are simply too small for
three people with their books and clothes,” she said. Nicholls said that the suggestions to have students “double up” always
come from people who are unfamiliar with Davidson dorms. “It is the obvious solution, but not the right one, in
this case,” Nicholls said.

The large barracks in the basement of Richardson, with 26 beds, has also been mentioned prominently in speculation about the
housing crisis. “I would certainly hate to have to house students down there. Currently, there are ten students living there
already. Using the larger room full-time would add 26 students, for a total of 36 using one bathroom.” Nicholls described
chances of acquiring temporary buildings, as have been used on some campuses, as “slim.” She said that there had been
resistance in the past to the idea of employing rented portable buildings.

“I think that this problem will be solved by housing students off-campus. I think that there will be more rooms
available in September than there are now. The situation is not frozen. Maybe more students will be lost through attrition
than in past years; maybe more will get married over the summer,” she explained. Nicholls stated that in past years
the better rooms have sometimes not become available until the end of the summer. “I don't think that students who
have not found off-campus living should be discouraged. The situation is bound to change,” she said.

The
No. LXII, No. Twenty-Three
Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
April 20, 1973

Ervin Calls Impoundment Illegal Tactic For Curing Deficit Spending Problems
By BRUCE MALOY
Managing Editor

In an entertaining and informative speech delivered to a capacity crowd in Love Auditorium Wednesday night, Senator Sam J. Ervin
Jr. gave a firsthand summary of the impoundment crisis. “No notion,” said Ervin, “more pernicious was ever invented by the
writ of man than that any of the Constitution's provisions could be suspended under any circumstances.

“As I see it, that is what is involved in the impoundment controversy,” Ervin continued. “Whether the President, granted that
his motives may be good, can suspend the provisions of the Constitution.” Senator Ervin, covering a lot of legal ground
rapidly, outlined his feelings on the matter and

Housing Planned For Lake Norman
By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

Davidson's tight housing situation, due to worsen in the next few years, might get some relief in the near future
if a projected two and three-bedroom apartment complex, due to be built nearby, is completed on schedule. According to a
story printed in last Sunday's Observer, the Tallahassee-based firm of Symon Ryals & Associates, a commercial real estate com-pany, purchased
a 36-acre tract of land from the estate of Ralph Clontz, on which they plan to build apartments. The Clontz
farm is just within the Davidson city limits and borders on the Iredell county line. Approximately 10 of those acres
are located on Lake.

OPEN END
There will be an Open End on The Honors College April 24, at 10:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room of
the Union. Tuesday, Norman, in the general vicinity in back of the General Time plant. The company bought the land
for around $6000 per acre or roughly $216,000. Leo P. Baker of Syman Ryals & Baker, the Charlotte affiliate of
the Florida company, said that the project was “a venture which was at least worth giving a look at.” “Everybody
builds in larger towns, but nobody considers the smaller ones,” Baker said. “We felt that there was enough of a
market in Davidson due to the college and its overall proximity to Charlotte.”

In the newspaper article, Baker stated that the company was hoping to complete the smaller unit apartments by the coming
fall, depending on a variety of variables, notably the weather and financing. Over the phone, however, Baker confessed that viewpoint
was “probably more optimistic than realistic at this point.” “We're working on the project as fast as we can,” admitted
Baker, “but on a more realistic note it's been a very wet winter, and many of your (See LAKE, Page
12)

the sections of the Constitution which support him. Citing an incident in which a deputy attorney general was testifying before
his subcommittee, Ervin said that the deputy defended President Nixon’s impoundment on the basis of Articles one and two of
the Constitution. Ervin pointed out that these articles give the President the authority to execute laws passed by the Congress.
He explained that only in the same sense of the word that state executes a criminal could the President be
considered to be executing an act of Congress when he refuses to spend appropriated funds.

Ervin then moved on to attack Nixon's defense of impoundment on the grounds that Congress has been financially irresponsible. Ervin
agreed that for at least the past forty years, Congress has been relying far too heavily on deficit spending. He
also said, however, “The presidents in this same period have been recommending programs which could be financed only by borrowed
money.”

“I have always maintained that if Congress is going to appropriate money that Congress should be able to levy sufficient
taxes to cover the money appropriated, or cut its expenditures so that it would be able to take care of
it with the resources at hand,” Ervin elaborated. Ervin explained that there are programs which he would like to see
eliminated or reduced, but that he does not favor using the “meat axe” approach.

Ervin has proposed a bill which he feels will resolve the impoundment problem by constitutional means. “This bill says that
when the President impounds funds that the impoundment is null and void unless Congress approves it within 60 days,” Ervin
said. “This in effect gives the President an item veto,” Ervin elaborated. Ervin’s bill also includes a clause which would
allow the President to ask the Congress to reduce or reconsider specific portions of an appropriations bill. Ervin pointed out
that a law such as this would have the added benefit of allowing the courts to decide on the constitutionality
of the issue.

In summation, Ervin reclarified the total disruption of the system of checks and balances. “The question is,” said Ervin, “whether
the republican form of government will survive. If America cannot keep the republic which our founding fathers provided for us,
then we will have a government of men rather than a government of laws and we will lose our most
precious possession, constitutional government,” Ervin concluded.

At the end of the speech, Sen. Ervin fielded questions from the audience. In response to one question, Ervin explained
how the Congress has the authority to grant to the President the authority to impound funds, which is what Ervin’s
bill would do, although reserving the right of approval for Congress. Sen. Sam Ervin Jr. said, “This authority is found
in the ‘necessary and proper’ clause of the Constitution which says that Congress can pass all laws which are necessary
or proper to implement the provisions of the Constitution. Since Congress is concerned with the financial affairs of the country,
it has the right and the authority to pass this bill which I have introduced.”

In another field of constitutional conflict, Sen. Ervin was asked if he knew of any legal basis for the continued
bombing in Southeast Asia. Ervin replied, “I felt from my study that the Gulf of Tonkin resolution...was tantamount to a
declaration of war. After the Tonkin resolution was repealed, I felt that the president could use armed forces to protect
the withdrawal. I can frankly state that I am somewhat at a loss to explain what authority we have to
engage in bombing over there now.” Ervin responded.

(Staff photo by Goodman)

CONSTITUTIONAL BATTLER... Clarifies the conflict.
