Project To Explore Rocky River System
By JOHN TATUM
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Center for Honors Studies plans an intensive interdisciplinary study of the ecologically ravaged Rocky River watershed area. The project will include economic and political studies as well as scientific research on conditions in the area.

According to Professor of Biology David C. Grant, project director, the project will be carried out over a period of three years. The first year will consist of a pilot study to determine areas in which to concentrate action. The next two years will add to the initial biological and chemical study with research on the effects of economics and politics on area conditions.

Funding for the project is expected to come from several grant applications. If these grants are approved, over $100,000 will be available for use in buying equipment, providing summer stipends, and other related expenses. Speaking of the funding, Grant stated, “We’re going to do the project. The sophistication of it will depend on the financial support we get.”

Grant felt that the major problem facing the project is changing the attitudes of the people involved. But he said he was “hopeful of cooperation from all segments of the regional community.” However, both Grant and Dean of the Honors Center Earl R. MacCormac stressed that the inquiry will not be restricted or the information gathered suppressed. “We will not be bound by the economic and political power blocs that control the streams,” said MacCormac.

The Rocky River project is an attempt by the Honors Center to involve its students in coordinated activity with their fellow students. In past years there has been criticism of the Honors program as being “isolated.” In another response to the isolation criticism, the Honors Center is now holding bi-monthly luncheons for all Honors students.

By RICHARD ROMEYN
Associate Editor

If like many students you are bemoaning your large phone bill, you might take comfort in knowing that you are not alone. Figures recently released by Southern Bell indicate that Davidson students received phone bills for the month of September totaling over $5400. The average student bill was in the neighborhood of $30, consisting of the $12.50 installation charge, $7 basic charge, and an average of about $9 in long distance tolls.

An analysis of Southern Bell’s records indicates that most student phone bills are comparable to that of the average resident, but that the figure for toll calls was noticeably higher in the case of students. While there may be no legal ways to avoid paying your bills, 

Jagger And Stones Hit Peak With “Goats Head Soup” Cuts
By WILL ROBERTSON
Staff Writer

The number of albums as good as the Rolling Stones’ “Goats Head Soup” can be counted on your fingers. Perhaps on the fingers of your left hand. It is as good musically as anything the band has done, with songs ranging from the softest to the hardest rock. This review will concern the lyrics, for they are as coherent and poetic as any since Dylan's “John Wesley Harding.” Those who only listen to the words on “Angie” will miss a great deal.

The first song, “Dancing With Mr. D,” is about the grim reaper, death. In the last verse Jagger is doing what only Jumpin’ Jack Flash could do, dancing with “a lady in black, wearin’ black silk gloves and a black silk hat.” She is none other than Mistress D, and every song on the album is written about the woman she represents.

In “100 Years Ago,” Jagger tells of a love now lost:
“Mary and I would sit upon the gate
Just at sun risin’ in the sky
What tender days, we had no secrets hid away
Well, it seems about a hundred years ago.”

“Coming Down Again” is a beautiful, floating song that first mentions the conflict. Jagger admits adventures with other women, saying, “Being hungry, it ain't no crime.” But Mary is jealous and will fight: “She turned green and tried to make me cry.”

In “Heartbreaker” we go forward in time, and Mary is now a heroin addict:
“Over on the street corner
Sticking needles in her arms
She died in the dirt of Hollywood
Her Mother said she had no chance.”

“Angie” is a beautiful song that cannot be ruined even by AM radio overexposure. Here Jagger says goodbye to a woman that hestill loves, with no reason given. In view of other weather images, the first lines, “‘When will these clouds all disappear? Where will it lead us from here,’” would seem to refer to the woman's addiction. The change of names will be discussed later. The next song, “Winter,” uses images of cold to express despair and hopelessness. The girl’s death is again mentioned: “And I wish I’d been out in California when the lights on ‘round.” In “Can You Hear the Music,” Jagger says that he can survive through his music: “Sometimes you're feeling you've been around and your rainbow just ain't here, even more printable, but it is possible to gather that Mick is about a girl who moved to Hollywood to make blue movies and made it with movie stars. I readily admit that the songs may be independent of each other, but the use of similar images and references seems to indicate a unity. Who is the woman? She is no real person, but someone created from many of Jagger’s experiences and fantasies. The use of the names Mary and Angie makes me think of Marianne Faithfull, Mick’s girlfriend for several years, who fought a long battle with heroin addiction. Angie Bowie, who has been seen with Jagger, may also be a part of the picture. Jagger has always been abstruse in his songs, and one may read into them most anything. At any rate, “Goats Head Soup” is a brilliant album.

Phone bills: there are a few ways to cut costs and inconvenience. One such pathway open to students is to ask that their phone service be suspended at half rate over long vacations. When service is suspended, the phone remains in the room, but the line is disconnected at the Southern Bell Office in Charlotte. Although suspending service is most applicable to summer vacation since the student is billed half rate only if the phone is disconnected for 30 days or more, it might be feasible over the 17-day Christmas break if one is willing to go without phone service for 13 days before or after in order to make the required 30. Students who put their phones on suspended service during the last summer saved about $2, but pointed to the convenience of not having to wait for reinstallation as the chief benefit. If a student selects a room in the annual spring drawing which already has a phone installed, he can arrange to have the phone retained through the summer on suspended service. To take over someone else’s phone, one merely signs what Lynn Hall, a supervisor, calls a “transfer of contract form.” The contract transfers the bills. A rather extreme possibility is that a group of students band together and buy a WATS Line for their long-distance calls. A WATS Line is a direct dialing long-distance line which offers unlimited use for a basic monthly payment. However, a line is expensive and the legal ramifications of students buying one are presently unclear. There is also a possibility that a Centrex system may be installed for use by the entire college within the next few years. Basically, a Centrex system differs little from a conventional system in outward appearance. Under Centrex, Southern Bell would assess the college for the entire system and the college would thus become the billing agency for toll calls and other fees. If the Centrex system were adopted, all dorm rooms would be provided with phones, and their cost would be incorporated into the room rent with the possibility of some savings to students in the long run. UNC in Charlotte has adopted the Centrex system and its inception has reportedly met with favorable response from students there.

Hall Defends Installation Charges For Student Dormitory Telephones
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Associate Editor

“It’s difficult to understand how Southern Bell can justify the floor in an hour,” Hall pointed out that processing an order involves “hidden costs.” “I don’t think we can tell people that what it costs to install their phone will depend upon how much time it takes,” he said. “Installation is a basic service and as such should have a standard rate.” Hall pointed to the Southern Bell office providing identical service to all residents as the major reason for retaining a standard rate. Even assuming Southern Bell sought to change the fee structure, Hall indicated that he doubted that the Public Utilities Commission would approve it. “Any changes might be seen as favoritism of students and to favor students in any way would be a violation of our policy. A college student is just like any other customer.”