MILES WARD

Energy Shortage Arouses Public To Californication

Six December 7, 1973

The Davidsonian

The Frustrations and Adventures of...

P.E. Program (Continued from page 2)

"...and helped make registration easy," said Bobby Mendenhall. Some students mentioned that Stone was very difficult to find. "That man is never in his office," one student said. "It is no wonder the program is in such a state of disarray."

The most frequently mentioned complaint was the need for a greater variety of team sports. "I like the individual sports, but the small number of team sports lack a lot. I feel they should give credit for intramural activities on which people spend a lot of time," said Penny. Another student who asked not to be named felt that the P.E. program should be more strictly enforced.

Stone emphasized that the department is expanding its activities and that six new individual sports are being offered. These are tumbling, trampoline, archery, ballet, modern dance, and jogging. In addition, there is no charge for ballet or modern dance, although early plans had set a fee for these classes at $30. "I am trying to encourage even those who have finished their requirements to take the P.E. courses also," said Stone.

Thanksgiving has come and gone. No one had to eat cold turkey this time. There was plenty of gas and hot water at home, only a small reduction in flights back. The energy shortage is over. This is the reassurance by which people justify their beliefs that: a) this is just another Nixon trick, b) there is no need to conserve gas or electricity, c) there is no real energy shortage. So the next time a car goes past at 70 miles an hour, remember that the driver is thinking, "How can the gas I use do any real damage?"

Duke President Terry Sanford seems to think this way. He recommended last week that the school continue to light its Christmas tree, arguing that in the great rush to save energy, only the little people like Duke would lose. There are several reasons for his decision. It may be a political one. Perhaps Sanford is trying to resist and embarrass his old foe Nixon. Sanford may be Duke Power's bulldog in encouraging, by example, everyone to leave their lights on.

Sanford may also be trying to stand up as a prophet of Dixie. Southern governors have strongly objected to the new energy policies. There are groundswell movements in Texas and Louisiana to restrict by law the export of oil from those states. With the export of natural gas to heat New England, the South may suffer disproportionately. So, Sanford may be trying to carry the cross for all of Dixie and stand up for the little man.

'Executive Action'

...science, gives the performance of his life. "Executive Action" is well worth seeing. The film...is now playing at Charlottetown Cinema II.

PETER CELENTANO

But none of this is reason enough to encourage a waste of energy when we are running out of petroleum products. Sanford's point is that the West, and Europe, are running out of petroleum products. Even while we can generate new supplies of electricity, present production depends heavily on gasoline. Petroleum also figures heavily in such things as coal and electrical production. And while America, with only five percent of the world’s reserve of crude oil, is using over 35 percent of the world’s energy, Sanford is telling us to waste it.

One can debate whether the present shortage of gas and fuel oil is temporary or permanent. But scientists have told us for years to expect this crisis. No one planned for it; now people around us want to ignore it. Perhaps for the first time we can understand Buckminster Fuller’s term “spaceship earth.” Energy supplies and natural resources must be conserved and cultivated if man’s journey is to continue. We must start planning now. By Christmas, our turkeys and showers may be cold. Then again, they may not be. But it is a holiday season, one for happiness and thanksgiving. What can we find to be thankful for?

For one thing, not everyone is like Terry Sanford. There are men and women who care about our resources and the beauty of the land. They have warned us in the past against drilling in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico, against strip mining in Wyoming, against covering the land with cement and asphalt. They won a victory here in September over Marine World. They repeat the message seen on bumper stickers today, that “A nation that runs on oil can’t afford to run out.”

To see the differences that care and planning make, you should travel southeast from Whitefish, Montana. Go down across the Missouri River, paying respect to the great trout. Struggle over the Northern Range of the Rockies across to the plains of the Big Platte River, with buffalo, wildflowers, and a glacier tip too. Near the end, you cross the border into Colorado where the sun on the mountains gives them water and sky colors. And it seems that some Indian artist has painted red and gold and blue on every rock. When your trip of 700 miles is finished, you will have seen a part of nature that man has left alone. The trip takes four months to complete, a little longer in the winter if you ski. If time is unimportant, plan for six.

When you get to Fort Collins, Colorado, you see what poor planning does. Every step of the last 10 miles is beside a road or shopping center. Kentucky Fried Chicken, pizza shops, used car lots. It seems that so much culture should be poisoning the air. But there is hope. In the belly of the concrete and glass Student Center at Colorado State University, there is a giant sign. It reads “Don’t Californicate Colorado.” Good advice for Carolina. For Duke University and Terry Sanford. For energy ostriches everywhere.

Entertainment