Interest In Failing Grades Expressed
By TOM BRUCE
Associate Editor

As next Tuesday's Educational Policy Committee meeting approaches, interest in modifying the effect of failing grades earned in dropped courses has grown. Currently, the college’s Academic Regulations, which are reviewed annually by the faculty, state that when a student drops a course after the drop-add period has elapsed, a grade of “F” is recorded permanently on his academic record. 

The Davidsonian
Vol. LXII, No. Twenty-Six

Even if he subsequently passes the course, the original “F” still remains as part of his record and is entered into his grade-point average. This policy has been the object of numerous inquiries at the Registrar’s Office, according to Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. “I really think that many of our students and faculty members have not taken the time to read the Academic Regulations closely. Perhaps this rule should be changed. As far as the Registrar's office is concerned, this rule is not founded on any great principle. We just carry it out since it is part of the academic regulations which are binding on this office,” Burts said.

Burts indicated that there was some feeling on the part of the faculty that an academic record should be as comprehensive as possible, revealing not just a list of successfully completed courses, but a student's continuing academic activity throughout his college career. One possible alternative to this problem was investigated by Professor of Psychology Jay H. Ostwalt. Ostwalt looked into whether students could drop courses up to the fifth week of the term without penalty. Courses would have to be added within the first five days of the term, however.

“This is a difficult question,” Ostwalt said. “What is a person’s academic record? Should we go to a system where courses could be taken repeatedly until everyone in the school makes Phi Beta Kappa?”

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
May 11, 1973

SLC Writes New Lease For Court Houses, Random House Must Find Non-Nationals
By BRUCE MALOY
Managing Editor

What may be the final round in the three-year-old Patterson Court revampment came to the surface this week. The Student Life Committee (SLC) annually renews the leases of the houses on Patterson Court. The lease which is presently being drawn up includes provisions that national fraternities which occupy Patterson Court houses must have 20 percent of their membership who are non-members of the national fraternity and the president or treasurer of the house must be non-members of the fraternity. This ruling applies to only two groups on campus, Sigma Phi Epsilon and Phi Gamma Delta, since they are presently the only two fraternities which do not use the self-selection system.

Dean of Students and chairman of the SLC Will Terry explained that as far as PGD is concerned, it is a matter of getting some records together since they are now eating at Fanny and Mabel's. Random House, however, must recruit 20 percent non-nationals between now and the August first deadline. Terry explained, “The SLC feels that I made a mistake in allowing the situation to be worked out the way that it presently is. They feel that Random House must make a greater contribution other than providing an eating facility for an off-campus fraternity.”

The general feeling of the SLC seems to be that Random House is a fraternity disguised as an eating club and that as such it is in violation of the trustee's decision. “The SPE's have been allowed to use Random House,” said Terry, “under the assumption that SPE and Random House are not synonymous. The SLC action will make sure that this assumption is a fact.”

Random House President and SPE member John Branigin said, “As far as we are concerned, we are just a group of students like any other eating club on the court.” He stated, “We would be more than glad to have people who are not members of SPE to come to Random House. If people self-select there we will make every effort to make them feel welcome. However, I don’t think we should be forced to go around knocking down doors to find people to meet an arbitrary ruling. Random House,” admitted Branigin, “is in a strange position. We really didn’t rush very much as Random House.”

SLC member Hansford Epes commented, “While this is basically a reaction to the Random House situation, this is also a look at the whole Patterson Court system to clarify some confusion resulting from the Committee of Eighteen report.” Epes stated that the impetus for this action came from students rather than from the faculty or administration. “We must,” he continued, “help the Patterson Court Council make the court as active a social outlet as it can possibly be.”

Student member of the SLC Bob Cunningham said, “The other houses on Patterson Court are restricted by following the college's guidelines and those of the Patterson Court Council. SPE is in fact on the court and...is not subject to these restrictions. “They have been asked to cooperate and haven't done so. They held an early rush which was unfair to the other houses which did abide by the rules,” he said. “The SPE’s say that they are unable to follow these guidelines, but the Phi Gams are doing it very consistently," said Cunningham. Asked how Random House will react to the stipulations of the new leases, Branigin said, “We are taking out an ad in this week's DAVIDSONIAN to get more people to eat at Random House and we will ask for an opportunity to bring this back up before the SLC.

“We understood the concern about SPE rushing early and we agreed to send out bids on the day of self-selection. We thought this was all straightened out,” he continued. “I feel that this deadline is totally unfair. As far as I am concerned, August first is the same as the end of this school year. If we don’t have the 11 or 12 people we need by then, we won't be able to get them during (See NEW, Page 12).

SPE’S AT RANDOM HOUSE
SLC's decision forces new recruiting.

“Should we allow no dropping of courses under any circumstances, even physical illness? I think that the right answer lies somewhere between these two extremes. A few years ago some colleges had a policy of ‘forgiving’ D’s and F’s, and now they are abandoning this system,” he said. “We are already admitting that physical illness is a valid reason for not completing a course, regardless of whether the course is in its first week or its last days,” Ostwalt said. “Possibly there are other reasons equally valid for allowing students to drop courses through the fifth week of classes.

“I think that in any case a person’s academic record should give the truest account possible of his academic activity. If extenuating circumstances are causing distortion, we ought to be concerned,” Ostwalt said. Ostwalt stated that when he writes letters of recommendation for students to graduate schools he points out any exceptional circumstances that might merit special attention.

Miles Ward, a student member of the EPC (the body which would make recommendations for changes in the grading system) explained the situation. If enough students express their dissatisfaction with the present policy, then maybe the EPC will recommend a change. “Historically, the problem runs something like this. Two years ago, the EPC recommended an eight-week drop period. The faculty voted this down, with instructions that the EPC stop daydreaming,” said Ward. “The most recent motion is for six days drop, six and one-half days add. This was unanimously passed at our last meeting. There are members who feel, as I do, that an eight or ten-week drop period would be acceptable.”

Governance Committee Meets To Discuss Policy Revisions
By ALEC HOON
Editor-In-Chief

The Davidson Governance Committee met for the 14th time on April 11 to continue their discussion on a model for a new governance system at Davidson. The aim of the committee is to establish a new system whereby all members of the college community will have a more meaningful role in the decision-making process affecting the entire community.

Presently the Governance Committee, chaired by Trustee Walter L. Lingle Jr., is considering two possible models, one drafted by Trustee J. Dickson Phillips which provides for a unicameral assembly composed of all faculty members, a number of students and a number of administrators, and one by Religion Professor Alexander McKelway which calls for the establishment of a bicameral conference system, maintaining a student forum and a separate faculty forum.

At the last meeting the committee gave its assent to the following tentative agreements: (1) attendance at meetings of the trustees by a representative of the faculty (the chairman pro tem if one is decided upon) and a student representative (presumably the president of the SGA); (2) attendance at meetings of the faculty by a student representative (presumably the president of the SGA); (3) attendance at meetings of the student Senate by a faculty representative.

Two controversial areas have yet to be resolved. One is whether the student representatives should be allowed to have a vote in whatever governing body the committee proposes, or whether they should attend merely in an advisory capacity. A second area of concern involves the relationship between the campus governing structure and the Board of Trustees. When the areas of disagreement have been settled, the committee will present a recommendation of its own to the Board of Trustees for approval.

Exam Change
The Faculty Executive Committee acted favorably this week to a request by the SGA to change the dates of the upcoming examination period from May 28-May 31. The new schedule will include Saturday, May 26, within the examination period.