Connie Welsh and Bob Wright rehearse for upcoming play * LETTER TO THE EDITOR AN EVENING AT HOME Staff photo by Strand: ‘Juno and the Paycock.” Consortium Plan Finds Favor To the Editor: In view of the general lack of knowledge on the Davidson campus concerning the Eight-College Exchange Program, I believe it would be helpful for the DAVIDSONIAN's readers to learn something of the present state of the program both here and at the other schools involved. Since its initiation in the 1970-71 academic year, the Exchange Program has slowly but steadily gained acceptance at the member institutions until it is now seen as an established, workable program, offering new opportunities for undergraduate study without forcing the student to permanently depart from his home institution. The major problem with the program, and the factor which may doom it in the future, is that the great majority of the exchange students attend three or possibly four host schools with the other three schools being left out almost entirely. With Davidson's decision to become coeducational in the spring of 1972, many members of the Davidson community saw an end to the utility of the Exchange Program, as many had looked upon it primarily as a means of obtaining female students at the college. A quick glance at the booklet outlining the goals and procedures of the Exchange Program should convince us of the speciousness of this reasoning, as the program is said not to be one offering a male-female exchange to the single-sex schools involved but one offering increased educational opportunities derived from an increased number of courses available for study and the possibility of a change of educational environment and experiences on the undergraduate level. These opportunities are offered to Davidson students wishing to study in the United States only through the "multi-location university" created by the Eight-College Exchange Program, and it is difficult to conceive of any new such opportunities arising if the program is allowed to fall through. For those who argue chauvinistically that the other schools in the Program have nothing to offer Davidson, I would say that with a quick look at the college catalogues of these other institutions, one will probably learn otherwise. I would hope that both students and faculty would think seriously about these comments, that those students who might be interested in the program would apply soon (hopefully to such schools as Mary Baldwin, Randolph-Macon's Women's College, Randolph-Macon College, and Sweet Briar), and that those faculty who might agree with the goals of the Program would use their influence to encourage its support. Ted Ellett '74 Hollins College

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR The Davidsonian - February 9, 1973 Page Five

GUEST COLUMN Peeples Views 1972 As Bittersweet Year I suppose it's become something of a tradition for retiring politicians to offer their opinions one final time in THE DAVIDSONIAN before they fade away into oblivion and bliss. Originally I had planned to present an evaluation of student government for the past year, but I think that sort of thing has been done sufficiently in the past several weeks. It's perhaps significant, though, that the man just elected SGA President was the only candidate of seven who was willing to defend the record of the student government over the past year. What I want to do here is to ramble a bit, to talk about what has and hasn't been done, and about what needs to be done. 1972 was

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND Staff Writer "Home," English playwright David Storey's spontaneous and pungent play, will be presented by the Little Theatre of Charlotte tonight and tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m. The play, an essay on the human condition, has been described by "New York Times" theatre critic Clive Barnes as "most rich and compassionate." Student tickets are $1.50. "Exit The King," a contemporary play by Eugene Ionesco, starts Wednesday at the Golden Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum of Art. Performances are Wednesday through Saturday at 8:15 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30. Tickets are $3. The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra will present Yehudi Menuhin in performances of Beethoven's Violin Concerto, and Serge Prokofieff's Symphony No. 5 at Ovens Auditorium Feb. 15 and 16. Founder of the Yehudi Menuhin School in London, Menuhin's control of the tenuous middle ground between musical intuition and intellect is only one of the factors which go to make him one of the world's greatest masters of the violin. Student tickets are $1.50 and may be purchased at the auditorium box office by calling the Symphony office. "A Sense of Wonder," a show combining music, poetry, and special effects to paint the universe as a place of wonder and beauty is being presented at Kelly Planetarium. Musical selections include music by the Beatles, Todd Rundgren, and The Moody Blues. Poetry is by Robert Frost, John Masefield, and William Shakespeare. Productions are Saturdays at 3:30 p.m. and Sundays at 2:30 and 3:30 p.m. at Kelly Planetarium at Charlotte Nature Museum.a bittersweet year for student activism. The implementation of coeducation a full year before it was expected, the comprehensive fee compromise, liberalized self-scheduled examination procedures, extended gym hours, improved course registration procedures (remember those three-hour lines?), an improved parking and security system, the resurrection of the course evaluation booklet, the establishment of a student legal aid fund, the establishment of the Dormitory Social Council (bet you didn't know those two things even existed), and the establishment of the APO bookstore on a permanent basis can all be chalked up as “pluses” for the year 1972. But student government (and the student body as well) lost, and lost badly, on things such as student representation on the Budget, Buildings and Grounds Committee, the future of the Union, subsidized football, beer sales in the Union, and the cost of transcripts. And I believe that of all these setbacks, the most irritating is the last mentioned item—perhaps because the rationale behind the $2 fee is so senseless. So much for what was and what wasn't done last year. Obviously, much unresolved business remains. The headaches I am about to enumerate are not simply more student gripes; they are, I think, matters that demand the concern of everyone who is a part of Davidson College. More than anything else, we need to start talking to each other once again. Administrators, faculty, and students have become quite adept in the past couple of years at playing word games with each other. Elusiveness, secrecy, intrigue, and in some cases, deception—we have all become politicized in some ways. We have allowed our vested interests, legitimate as they may sometimes be, to get in the way of realizing the goal to which we all pay lip service—that of a college community. We need a workable system of college governance. Three student body presidents, myself included, have tried and failed to produce tangible signs of progress in realizing a system of governance which recognizes the existence of students as something more than receptacles of instruction. We need an athletic program which will not permit football to run deficits of over $100,000 every year, an athletic program which will ensure the minor sports a fair shake—something they have never had. We need to ensure that the social system envisioned by the (See BITTERSWEET, Page 6)

Juniors Protest SGA Elections, Call For JYA Suffrage

Right To the Editor: I protest the disenfranchisement of students on Junior Year Abroad programs in SGA elections. Although we are not physically present at Davidson, we are still Davidson students; we do know the candidates; and we are capable of making a reasonably intelligent vote. We here in Marburg first learned of the elections two days before they were held. No effort was made by the SGA to get ballots to us; probably the SGA did not even think of us. We assumed that we would be taken care of in preparations for the elections; we were not. One-sixth of the rising Senior class was thus deprived of its right to vote in student elections. I suggest that the SGA take measures, if not action, to assure that those Davidson Students who are away for a year are allowed to vote in the future.

David Hanig ‘74
Marburg, Germany

To the Editor: I wish to protest the student elections held on the 23 and 30 of January 1973, and to request that new elections be held on the grounds that no provisions have been made for the participation of those Davidson students not presently studying on-campus. These students are fully registered and therefore are entitled to a vote. Approximately 50 Davidson students, predominately juniors, have been denied the opportunity to voice their opinions in a closely contested election and in representing nearly 17 percent of the rising Senior class. Their participation could have an important impact on selecting those students who will represent them following their return to Davidson. It is unfortunate that the timing of the elections makes it impossible for off-campus students to actively campaign, as in many cases these students are more qualified than those remaining on-campus. To exclude them from voting is, however, too much. Returnees from past Junior Year programs have complained of not feeling a part of the Davidson community and it is regrettable that these feelings find their roots before the student has returned to campus. In addition, I wish to also challenge the giving of an office to an unopposed candidate without approval by a majority of the voting students. Only one student may have applied, however, that does not automatically mean that the student body wishes him to fill that position. Every candidate should be required to gain a majority from those voting or the position should remain vacant. On these grounds I request that the elections be re-held after such time as off-campus students have been given an opportunity to voice themselves, having been provided with essential information on all candidates. If all cannot participate, does the election serve any purpose?

Thomas K. Redding ‘74
Marburg, Germany