AEGREY LIBRARY

Chalmers Books

Cat-Burglars NOR CODE~GENTLEMEN ONLYp!/

Frugal ‘Snails’ Swarm Europe, Insensitive To Surroundings

By DAVID HANIG
Contributing Editor

We have all seen that great stereotype of the American tourist - the red-faced, pot-bellied man in a loud Hawaiian
shirt and Bermuda shorts who has four cameras around his neck and a loud-mouthed wife who whines nasally about the
plumbing. As much as these people make me cringe, there is unfortunately another group of North Americans whom I consider
a greater blight--the snails.

Snails, for the uninitiated, are backpackers, so named because all they own is on their backs. By “snails” I mean
only those backpackers who are in Europe for the sole purposes of drinking some wine, eating some cheese, and catching
some rays. These activities by themselves are relatively harmless; but when life centers on the triad above, the snails become
objectionable. The most noticeable characteristic of the snail is the speed and the totality of the development of an insensitivity
to his surroundings.

In Amsterdam, the chief port of entry into Europe for snails, I once met a guy from Los Angeles. The
first thing I heard from him was “Wow, man! I’m in Europe! I can’t believe it! Oo, let me get
my shit together, man!” Clearly overcome by the thought of being in Europe and unaware of the double entendre. The
next day I saw the same fellow, and I asked how things were going. “Well, I met this dude from
right near where I live in front of American Express, so I kinda spent the day talking.” “What are you
going to do tonight?” “Thought I'd go see ‘Super-Fly.’” By the time that I left Amsterdam, the guy had managed
to tour the Heineken Brewery twice. He said he wanted to go to some big art museum (he meant the
Rijksmuseum), but you had to pay money and he wasn’t going to do that. He ignored the Concertgebouw where students
can attend some of the best symphony concerts in Europe for 40 cents. He had only been around North Americans.

Lacking the willingness to spend money on the beaux-arts and the ability to speak the local language, the snails congregate
together, usually in front of American Express. In short, the snails do nothing which would not be done as well
or better on the North American continent. The snail seems to be a person who is going nowhere and does
not seem to know it. That is what I find most disturbing about him.

The Davidsonian
October 5, 1973

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN

New Spirit Hinders Ancient Animosities

By CHARLES E. LLOYD
Professor of English

Bitter constraint and sad occasion have wrung this cry from my heart. It is a stern warning of woes to
come, and the faint-hearted should seek immediately, perhaps on the editorial page, matter meet for less morose delectation. In 17
years (I came here that long ago, as haruspex junior grade and assistant curmudgeon) I have seen many and multifarious
changes and innovations, most of them, if not quite all, very much for the worse. I used rather to enjoy
the spectacle of Davidson's stately progress to perdition, but this year’s shocking acceleration of the tempo has turned spectacle into
nightmare, and I must now warn all who will listen of the ineluctable shipwreck ahead. The dam will burst, the
lid will blow, the earth crack wide; and I offer in evidence the following signs.

A new spirit among us threatens our ancient loyalties, alignments, fragmentations, and animosities. Our fine old mutual distrust that gave
life such zest is crumbling; I have caught colleagues on the faculty helping students, and yesterday I actually beheld one
(wild horses will not drag his name from me) smiling at an officer of the administration. As for that body,
I suspect every man jack of them is seriously trying to make Davidson a better place for living and learning.
They seem to have lost their trencher fury for red tape and chinoiserie, and I sometimes think they're about to
declare an armistice in the paper war.

It is even worse with the young, who betray symptoms of serious disorientation. Some of my own pupils are not
only studying, but enjoying it; they are not bucking for grades, but taking a perverted pleasure in work itself. Their
extracurricular activities include many such disgustingly altruistic and downright wholesome pursuits as STEP, PIRG, meditation, and non-subsidized athletics. And the
very worst are the blacks and the women. When we integrated, I had cheerful hopes of some rare old melodrama,
but the blacks have dashed them every one. Instead of coming on like militants or Toms --- surely sufficiently divergent
alternatives for the discriminating - they insist on behaving like themselves, and at an untold cost in the amusement afforded
by discord and strife.

The young women are unspeakable. Their charms of person and manner are such that I can no longer savor the
surly gnawing of an atrabilious stomach, and I reach home daily less eager to kick the cat and beat my
wife. Not only are they prettier, nicer, and sweeter-smelling than we males; some of them are smarter. Simpliciter non fit,
as Prof. Screwtape put it in his Enchiridion Militis Damnati. If it gets any worse, I'll have to face the
sad fact that somebody is probably praying. Ichabod! Eheu! fugace ... but my warning: Davidson bids fair soon to be
inundated by floods of good will, industry, courage, hor-se-sense, courtesy, and fun. Life will never be the same, and this
curmudgeon is looking for a sabbatical at the United Nations. I think I can get my old job back: international
spy and soda-skeet. Meanwhile, the devil and I are mighty worried.

Stephenson Improves Work Benefits

It is extremely easy to criticize the faculty and administration of this college. A colleague of mine and sometimes-columnist showed
this in last month’s DAVIDSONIAN. Time and effort are involved in finding out the facts on issues and making a
fair appraisal of administrative efforts. One such effort which has been moderately successful is that of Director of Personnel Robert
J. Stephenson.

Stephenson and his colleagues in the administration have been concerned with making working conditions better for secretaries and buildings and
grounds people. Several limiting factors must be recognized. The staff is admittedly receiving salaries that could easily be surpassed by
a job with Reeves Brothers just down the road. There is only one way to increase these salaries - increase
the budget. Students could pay more money or alumni could pay more money. But as it stands now the salaries
simply cannot be increased without cutting some college programs.

So, what has Stephenson done? Benefits have been enhanced remarkably since he’s been here. There are minor benefits and major
ones. The minor benefits support the family atmosphere of the college, which in recent years has not fared well. Every
staff member is entitled to free tickets to Davidson home athletic events. Davidson, being a family school, gives any hourly
employee with one year of service three days with pay at the time of marriage. A total of three days
with pay may be taken at the time of death of any member of the hourly employee’s immediate family. An
employee’s family is provided with an amount from three times annual earnings at age 35 to one-half annual earnings at
age 65 and over, in the case of the employee's death. The college pays the entire premium. The responsibility for
other insurance is divided between the college and the individual employee. The college pays approximately 55 percent of the premium
on health insurance. The secretaries and building and grounds people are covered under Blue Cross and Blue Shield. An employee
entering the hospital will have his semi-private room paid for in full. Intensive care, drugs, EKGs, EEGs, and other tests
and necessities (such as food) are paid for completely. The hourly employee has sick leave amounting to one day for
each month of service. Doctor's charges, in addition, are paid for while the person is hospitalized.

The administrative staff is also covered under a major medical expense plan under the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA).
This provides up to $50,000 depending upon how much has been used in the past. Secretaries have a total disability
benefits plan under the TIAA. The total disability provides for total payment of 60 percent of the monthly salary when
combined with social security benefits. TIAA total disability pays the premium to the retirement plan that was begun by Davidson.
The retirement annuity is handled by either TIAA or College Retirement Equities Fund (CREF) or a combination depending upon the
choice of the individual employee. The college pays the total premium amounting to 10 percent of the annual salary. These
plans begin after not more than five years of service to Davidson and attainment of the age of 30. Faculty
and administrative staff (including secretaries) are covered under one of these plans which supplements social security benefits. All employees are
given 10 days of paid holidays during the year and, after one year of service, two weeks of paid vacation.
The vacation policy is quite liberal since most factories give three days of vacation for every year of service up
to a maximum of two or three weeks.

The other major benefit in working for most colleges and universities including Davidson is the tuition break. Any dependent of
any employee that is accepted at Davidson can attend with free tuition. This policy could be better, however. The free
tuition is not used extensively because many of the employees' children have not had the opportunity to receive an adequate
secondary education for admission to Davidson. While faculty and administration children can receive as much as $1400 per year to
pay for tuition to other institutions, this policy does not exist for other employees. But again, where is the money
to come from? Employees themselves are given the opportunity to attend Davidson classes, one per term, free of tuition. Ms.
Susie Summers in the College Union is taking a course this term under this program. She is enjoying the opportunity
of furthering her education, which otherwise would be impossible. The college, additionally, subsidizes the mortgage loans of some employees. Buildings
and grounds people have enjoyed this program. The interest rate is lowered considerably. One employee is paying 4½ percent interest
on his loan.

There are problems with the personnel benefit and salary policy. The buildings and grounds people are not covered under TIAA
or CREF so they are not provided with disability or retirement benefits. Salaries are lower than they should be. But
we sincerely believe that Stephenson and his staff have alleviated many of the problems of the employees since his appointment.
If he continues to make the progress that he has made in the past, Davidson College will be a good
employer no matter what job is considered.
