Vol. LXII, No. Twenty-One Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 April 6, 1973

College Leaders Discuss Athletic Policy
By AUGH MOORE
Contributing Editor

Representatives of the student body, faculty, administration, Board of Trustees, alumni, and Wildcat Fund discussed the athletic program at Davidson in a meeting at Montreat last weekend.

“The purpose of the meeting,” student representative Steve Bell said, “was to consider the scope of athletic policies the trustees should establish, with special attention given to subsidized athletics.”

Scott Seeks SC Position
By ALEC HOON
Editor-in-Chief

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan confirmed Tuesday that Tom Scott will remain at Davidson as Athletic Director for at least one more year, if he is not selected to become the new Southern Conference commissioner.

“The final decision on the commissioner will be made sometime in May. Tom Scott is presently one of the persons being considered,” Bevan indicated. “At the end of next year, Scott will retire as athletic director if he is not selected as the commissioner this spring, and a new director picked,” he said.

Bevan stated that no further plans can be made until the Southern Conference picks a new commissioner. With regard to the return of Tom Stevens, who is presently at the University of Alabama working on his doctorate in Physical Education, Bevan said, “We have a contract for Stevens to return in the same capacity as he was when he left, i.e., to help with the physical education program and to coach swimming and baseball.”

In May, the trustees will make a decision on the future athletic policy based on the recommendation of the Trustee Athletic Committee. Football and basketball, the only two subsidized sports, will receive the most attention. The representatives at Montreat discussed the future level of subsidy of these two sports and, in fact, considered whether or not either one should be de-subsidized.

For the fiscal year 1972-1973, the difference between income and expenses is estimated to be approximately $160,000 in the football program. The deficit in basketball is estimated to be approximately $140,000. The expense of the football program has come under more frequent attack because the team usually posts a poorer won-lost record, and thus is said to bring less prestige to Davidson than does the basketball team.

“A lot of the students just try to laugh off the football program,” said SGA President Bo Phillips, who briefly presented student sentiment at the meeting. “There is a lot more support for the football team, as friends and fellow students, than there is for the football program,” he said. “On the other hand, students have higher expectations for the basketball team,” he added.

“My own position,” Phillips said, “is that no sports should be subsidized except basketball. Enthusiasm would be just as high for a non-subsidized football program. I justify subsidized basketball by pointing to the greater potential in areas of public relations and student enjoyment.”

Bell agreed with Phillips on de-subsidizing football. “I don't think a student should get a full athletic grant because he can throw a football. Football players should be given no special consideration. Priorities at Davidson are somewhat distorted. Subsidized football is near the bottom of my list. The situation now is...”

Senate Refuses Funds While Student Car Stalls
By BETSY ALEXANDER
Contributing Editor

The elusive student car is fluttering on the brink of extinction, caught between its opponents in the Senate and its proponents in the administration. Since December, the proposal for a student car has been in a special Senate committee, chaired by Bill Meier. It is the committee’s job to determine how the car would be used and who would get priority for its use. Once this is done, and if the Senate passes the resulting bill, the administration can act to obtain the car.

According to Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, the administration stands ready to put up its part of the finances as soon as the Senate appropriates its share of the cost from student funds. “I'm waiting to hear from the Senate.”of the SGA. Bo Phillips, however, would prefer to see the whole matter dropped because difficulties with insurance and priority would greatly limit the number of students who could use the car. The proposal for a student car was last on a list of demands from the Black Student Coalition. “All of the demands, except for the car, have been met,” said Bevans, “and this is the one that I thought would be easiest to meet because it was something for the entire student body.”

Although recently surfaced, the clamor for a student car is not new. Two years ago one did exist in the form of a 1963 Buick, but problems with insurance made the car aloof from students and virtually unattainable. It finally went the way of all village cars into oblivion.

“Such that the good student from a middle-class family receives less financial aid than the good football player from a wealthy family,” he said. “Is the football program worth $160 per year to each student at Davidson?” Bell queried.

Bell cited the benefits of a de-subsidized program at Davidson, “the program would be less expensive, interest would be greater because the team would be more competitive in a de-subsidized conference, and with greater interest, there would probably be more income, although the team itself would no longer reflect the semi-professionalism we now have. The football program would be open to more students.”

Bell, however, had mixed feelings about the basketball program. “It is less of an issue economically,” he said, “because there is less money spent on basketball scholarships. Also, one must consider the national stature, student enthusiasm, and won-loss records which the basketball program has provided.” (see LEADERS, Page 12)

By BRUCE MALOY Managing Editor

In an interview Tuesday, Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls revealed plans for changes in next year's housing. Freshman coeds will be housed in Watts dorm and upperclass coeds will be staying in the top two floors of Little dorm as they are this year.

(Photo by News Bureau) BO PHILLIPS AT MONTREAT “No sports should be subsidized except basketball.”

Coed Quarters, New Programs Mark ’73-’74 Housing Changes

“Freshman men will be put in all of Cannon and Richardson dorms except for the basements and in the top floors of Sentelle,” explained Mrs. Nicholls. “The number of floors which freshmen will occupy in Sentelle will be more definite once we are sure how many freshmen have been accepted,” she added.

“The maximum number of freshman coeds that can be accepted is 88, which is the capacity of Watts. Although it is possible that the admission office might not be able to get 88 freshman girls,” speculated Nicholls, “they can accept no more than that number.”

Further innovations in next year’s housing are “program houses” and “room blocks” in Belk dorm. Five groups of students have applied for the two available houses, Grey House and North Main House. One group wants to set up a “southern regional studies” program. The program includes black studies and mountain folkways.

A second group, an active Christian group on campus, applied for one of the houses. Another proposal is that one of the houses be reserved for students returning from Junior Year Abroad and the Eight College Exchange. It was suggested that these students could then set up programs to encourage freshmen to participate in JYA and the exchange.

A group of freshmen interested in German have a bid for one of the houses with the intention of setting up a German-speaking house. The final proposal was one made by a group of students wanting to “study growth problems with special attention to economics, the energy crisis, etc.”

The committee which must choose two of these groups to occupy the houses has not yet made the final decision. Mrs. Nicholls expressed hope that the committee would be able to make a decision at this week's meeting. (See NEW, Page 12)