Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian December 7, 1973 Eleven Toilet Bowl Highlights IMAC Week By CAPTAIN AMERICA And BUCKY

Miami has the Orange Bowl, New Orleans has the Sugar Bowl, Pasadena has the Rose Bowl, but Davidson, only our
hallowed Davidson, has the bowl of bowls, the Toilet Bowl. This flickerball finale featured assorted Davidson student-jocks and flickerball groupies.
Last Wednesday, this grandiose classic was held once more before a crowd of several thousand blades of grass.

Before this year’s gridiron festival got under way, the semi-annual Toilet Bowl parade was held clockwise around Patterson Court (that’s
counterclockwise for you Southern Hemisphere folks). Special guests included honorary grand master Spiro T. Agnew, celebrated guitarist Mark Farmer, sophisticated
lady-about-town Martha Mitchell, part-time weenie George Karl, and head woosie Joe Duncan.

The game itself was its usual exciting drunken orgy. Playing on natural turf for one of the few times in
the sport’s history, the players didn’t seem to care about the surface itself, much less who or where they were
playing. No one is sure about the final score, as about halfway through the contest there was a de ap
emsberseclpeorger resulting in the passing out of at least 13 of the game’s participants, plus the referees. Anybody who has
a close estimate of the score, please drop C.A. and Y.B. a line.

It’s starting to look like Sunday night. It’s either good teams or real bad ones, nothing in between at all.
SAE, a good team, crushed the Altoona Aardvarks 62-26 as Peyton Prospere canned 20 markers while John Yeoman chipped in
with 19. The E’s are one of the top teams in b-ball. The Queen and 12 Very Nice Guys showed
a fine center in garbage man Doug Berry as he led Queen Steve Earp and the nice guys to a
58-42 win over a not-too-bad C4 team. The KA’s and the ATO’s played the most exciting game of the night
as Dave Ingold scored 8 points to lead the rebs to a 46-44 thriller over the ATO Turnovers. The Zeroes'
lone scholarship player, Pat Flannigan, led his team with 32 of their 44 points. Freshman hall C-2 surprised the sexually
intertwined Wimps 38-28 as some guy named Hay led the frosh with 17 points. Not a big game though. SAE-2
played an 11 p.m. game against a band of boys called the Egborton Pa. All Stars, and they sent them
back to bed early by a score.

White Pleased (Continued from page 10)

chance to shoot. Even though Weds are firing on the team this year. Although females are not allowed to compete
in the Southern Conference, White hopes this decision will be reversed this month. The

---

Note: Some parts of the text were unclear or seemed garbled (e.g., "de ap emsberseclpeorger"). I preserved these as they
appeared in the OCR text.Girls will compete in the Western Carolina Conference matches. Davidson is hosting a four-way meet this
weekend between Clemson, Appalachian, Richmond, and Davidson. This will be one of the most difficult meets of the season, according
to White. He hopes the team will break the 1300 mark then. Hopefully, with the advantage of being underdogs, and
with the team’s improvement, the riflemen will be able to produce a good showing this year.

550 N. Main - PEPPY’S PIZZA OFF Family Sized Pizza Clip This Coupon

Mooresville - Piedmont Insurance 137 NORTH MAIN STREET + P.O. BOX 2348 DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036 PHONE: 892-8054

Mr. Willard Ross of Raleigh pumped in a total of 27 to pace the No. 2 E’s. The All-Stars really
hurt folks. The Delts No. 2 team used their traditional balanced scoring and tight football player-like defense to stymie F&M
45-30. Mitch Reaves and Edgar Weir scored 10 apiece to lead the winners and losers respectively. The Delts do have
a problem though, as they sometimes use crack-back blocks instead of...

One of the classier names, Brew, sports an even classier depth-laden team. For a group of freshmen, they are highly
talented. Sunday they showed why as they methodically picked apart the Syrian Dogwoods 70-26. Tim Barr garnished 22 points and
Cory Young 18. The Old Men took advantage of their ringer, Jimmy "the Greek" Larranaga, to hobble past S-4, 51-29.
They are a decent team without Larranaga, but with him, they are No. 1. The question is though, will the
Old Men last a whole season together? Don’t think so because they are indeed as old as their name indicates.

The first forfeit of the basketball season is official as the Carolina Bombers were a dud in their first game.
Alan Blakely of Earl and Al’s Turkeys was the designated leading scorer in this 1-0 victory as it was assured
that he would never score again. The team with the daring to call themselves the Suggestive Bananas must be ready
to back it up on the courts. So far so good, as they nailed down a good win against a
pathetic Goneds team 57-12 as Bob Westmoreland chipped away with 12 chippies.

C.A. and Y.B. wish to digress from IMAC momentarily and applaud the musical portion of the Monday night Varsity game.
Robert Jackson's anthem was as it should be, but the stars of the show were the pep band, led by
Chris Ely.

Sherrill’s Jewelry Watch & Jewelry Repair Davidson, N.C.

CARLO’S Jeans n' Things At Depression Prices 122 S. Main St. Mooresville, N.C.

DICTIONARIES WEBSTER Library size 1973 edition, brand new, still in box. C.O.D. orders enclose $1.00 goodwill deposit. Pay balance plus
C.O.D. shipping on delivery. Be satisfied on inspection or return within 10 days for full refund. No dealers, each volume
specifically stamped not for resale. Please add $1.25 postage and handling. Cost New $45.00 Will Sell for $15 Deduct 10%
on orders of 6 or more Make Checks Payable to DICTIONARY LIQUIDATION AND MAIL TO Webster Dictionaries P.O. Box 218
Davidson, N.C. 28036
