Page Eight

January 26, 1973

The Davidsonian

Staff Photos by Pete Goodman

Stavrides Instructs Students In Study Of Okinawan Karate

By DAVID MELTON
Asst. Sports Editor

Pete Stavrides is a very traditional person, and he teaches a very traditional sport: Shorin-Ryu Okinawan Karate.

Three times a week, Tuesday and Thursday nights and Sunday afternoons, Stavrides meets with his class of ten to fifteen
pupils in order to train his students in the art of karate.

Stavrides noted that “The course is designed in such a way as to prepare the students for promotion to their
first rank of karate, the green belt, by the end of April.”

Keith Bowen, Gray Robinson, and Jack Barbour, among others, are some of the students who are making great progress. They
have been practicing since September.

Stavrides, a senior with a Black Belt in karate, has trained with Sen-Sei Ansei Ueshiro (the head of this style
of karate) for six years and Sen-Sei Joseph Johnston for four years. Ueshiro is a seventh-degree Black Belt and Johnston
is a third-degree Black Belt.

Of this style of karate, Stavrides said, “It's a very, very family-like thing and all have allegiance to Sen-Sei Ansei
Ueshiro.”

There are about seventy Black Belts presently in the United States.

The class at Johnston Gym is divided into three parts. The first is dedicated to attaining endurance and stamina. The
students are required to do 100 sit-ups and 100 push-ups to attain this endurance.

The second part of the class is devoted to Kata, or the very pure form of karate.

The third part is dedicated to Kumite (fighting) and self-defense training.

Stavrides stated that, “When students first begin to study karate, their intentions and aspirations are simply to become the best
fighter around.

“However, when the student has had one-half year of experience in training, he realizes that karate is more than just
learning how to fight. Karate then becomes a means for a student to gain self-confidence and an inner sincerity.”

Stavrides is quick to point out the many differences in karate and judo. He also added that, “Students who wish
to join now are eligible to qualify for promotion to the rank of green belt.”

Sometimes a student becomes discouraged and wonders if it is really worth it. When this happens, Stavrides tells the student
what his own “sen-sei" (teacher) told him when he first began.

“He told us that nothing in life that is worthwhile comes easily,” Stavrides recalled. “Everything good in life is gained
through hard work, sacrifice, and perhaps some blood.”
