‘The Davidsonian, November 30, 1973

Eleven SAE Grabs IMAC Flickerball Crown

By CAPTAIN And ERICA

Well, welcome back, fools. We understand that everyone is back on campus after a short Turkey-day vacation, except for C-IV,
whose brothers and sisters were unmercifully slaughtered and eaten over the week. Well, everybody has their bad breaks. A tough
one indeed.

Seeing as how there was no paper the week before the holidays, C.A. and YB (who has been freed from
his slave-like bondage) should recap the flickerball tourney. In the quarterfinals, the SPEs pulled off the upset of the season
as they defeated Emanon by about 7 or 8 points. Keith Stanzel and QB Bill Higgins led the determined SPE
offense while Bob Horton’s rushing contained the scrambling Calvin Allen.

The N. Main Gozinyas capped off a good season as they canned the KAs in the tourney, once again proving
that alcohol can be used as an intramural stimulant. Congratulations to “Drix” Hendrix, who performed well in the “redeye” slot
for the Gozinyas.

Other quarterfinal action saw the SAEs behead a stubborn C-I freshman team. C-I had a fine season, especially for freshmen
just learning how to play. Rounding out the action, the darkhorse Cleveland Indians crushed PGD to gain a semi-berth behind
Mark Rodgeman. Bobby Evans and Juan Sanchez led the way.

The semifinals saw the Tribe take the SPEs 49-34 despite a valiant SPE comeback, and the Indians' superior athletic ability
overcame the SPEs regiment. The other bracket found the SAE now on their way to a title as they sobered
up the drunken Gozinyas in a massacre. Peyton Prospere’s throwing and Eldon Bosham’s defense were just too much for the
Alkies.

In the final, the Indians were simply outmanned by SAE, specifically Peyton Prospere. He led the Es to a 61-39
wipeout of the Tribe, as SAE Cats Tangle Here.

Aussie that may see extensive action in the front court. Being 6-7, he has good height and experience on the
court. He has been playing very well recently since coming off an injury. The Kangaroos will be a true test
for the Cats on Friday night. The amount of improvement that has been expected on the Davidson squad will be
put in the limelight.

...Davidson Track (Continued from page 9)

of many steps that will be taken by the administration to improve our physical plant facilities in the area of
athletics,” Winston pointed out. “We will do this, of course, without taking away from the financial resources for the academic
environment at Davidson.”

The drainage system includes the installation of 1400 feet of curbing around the perimeter of the track. There are also
catch drains which are six feet wide being spaced 100 feet apart around the inner area of the track. The
job should be completed within three weeks, if the weather permits, Winston acknowledged. “If the ground freezes,” Winston said, “we
will have to wait.”

The final phase of placing the rubberized surface on the top of the track will start as soon as the
first phase is completed, if the weather permits. If not, it will be done in the spring. The actual surface
will take only one day to put in place and the track can be painted and...Ready to run within a
week once the surface can be laid down, according to Winston. Winston termed the project as a “positive move since
we had been trying to raise the money for such a track for the college.” In comparison with the costs
of other new style tracks within the Southern Conference, the college can be pleased with getting a fine track for
a reasonable price. The new track at William and Mary cost an estimated $150,000 while the new nine-lane tartan track
being built by Richmond will cost the Spiders close to $250,000. It is hoped that the track will be ready
for the 1974 track season, barring any unforeseen difficulties. Winston added that donations are still being sought to help finish
the fund drive to cover the costs of this new and needed facility for the athletic program at Davidson.

Country Chalet
Hwy. 115 at Mooresville
Open 6 A.M. - 12 P.M. Daily
BREAKFAST — LUNCH — DINNER
Shrimp — Steaks — Vegetables — Spaghetti

Holland will be able to see where his weaknesses and strong points are prior to the official opening of the
1973-74 basketball season. One big factor may be the age difference between the two clubs. Despite the fact that the
Cats are returning most of last year’s team and will be heavy laden with experienced players, the Aussies will have
an average age of almost 23 years per man. This could be a factor in the outcome of the contest.
The big man has been the Cats' primary concern in the past. Gaze’s men will be out to attack that
weakness if it still exists. At any rate, the 8 p.m. tip-off will be the beginning of this year’s basketball
season. The fate of the coming campaign may have some description after the game.

A SPECIAL GIFT FOR A SPECIAL PERSON
Bashfuls is proud to have Mr. C. G. Shirley, a gifted woodcarver from Pickens, S. C., to carve for our
patrons on Saturday, December 1, from 12 noon till 4 p.m. Come meet Mr. Shirley at Bashful, Ltd. 115 North
Main St. Davidson, N.C.

The best pioneer yon team of 1973. The three-on-three tournament was also completed last week. There were teams entered featuring
some fabulous names, a few coed teams, and some fine basketball. C.A. & Y.B.’s favorite name was Montezuma’s Revenge, closely
followed by the Dick Smith Phekirz. After the field was narrowed down to four teams, a surprise freshman squad of
Corey Young, Geoff Ely, Will McLean, and Jim Dulin defeated the SPE’s in a barnburner. At the other end of
the gym, Duncan, Rodgeman, Evans, and Flanagan manhandled the Hurwood Derbies. The final wasn’t very close as Duncan, Rodgeman, Flanagan,
and Evans had too much talent and experience for the hustling frosh. The final was 21-12 as Pat Flanagan sunk
three in a row from somewhere in downtown Detroit to win it.

PEPPY’S PIZZA
50¢ OFF Family Sized Pizza
Ph. 663-2792
550 N. Main
Clip This Coupon
Mooresville

DICTIONARIES
WEBSTER Library size 1973 edition, brand new, still in box.
Cost New $45.00
Will Sell for $15
Deduct 10% on orders of 6 or more
Make Checks Payable to
DICTIONARY LIQUIDATION
AND MAIL TO
Webster Dictionaries
P. O. Box 218
Davidson, N. C. 28036
C.O.D. orders enclose $1.00 goodwill deposit. Pay balance plus C.O.D. shipping on delivery. Be satisfied on inspection or return within
10 days for full refund. No dealers, each volume specifically stamped not for resale. Please add $1.25 postage and handling.

First Union National
DAVIDSON
