Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Page Twelve January 12, 1973 The Davidsonian

* Up ‘n Coming

Friday, January 12
9 p.m. Fine Film: Any Questions?
11:58 p.m. Any Questions?

Saturday, January 13
6 a.m. Fire Alarm Testing
7 a.m. Fire Alarm Testing
8 a.m. Chalmers Davidson "A Short History of Dixie"
11 p.m. Gidget Film Festival (continuous showings)
Gidget Goes To Bed
Gidget Goes To The Doctor
Gidget Goes To New York
Gidget Goes To Hospital
Gidget Goes To Hell

Sunday, January 14
3 p.m. Piedmont Lecture "The Swedish Woman Has a Hot Flash"
8 p.m. Fine Arts Center "A Pictorial History of Braille"

Monday, January 15
9 a.m. Peter Stuart Ney Memorial Breakfast
10 a.m. Seminar: Ney and the Davidson Seal Perkins Auditorium
11 a.m. Seminar: Ney and French Sexual History Dana 327
12 noon Rest Period BYO Blanket College
2 p.m. Seminar: Ney and the Outcome of the Battle of Dugsnok Perkins
4 p.m. Cake Race Johnston Gym
6 p.m. Seminar: Elitism in Davidson Grey House

Tuesday, January 16
11 a.m. Any Answers? No
2 p.m. Milk and Cookies Will's House
4 p.m. Lecture: Earl MacCormac "Is God Dead?" Love Auditorium
9 p.m. Lecture: God "Is Earl MacCormac Dead?" DCPC

Wednesday, January 17
10 a.m. Piedmont Lecture: Alonzo Cohen "Metaphysical Implications of a ZIE" Martin Ball Room
7 p.m. Popular Film: "Marijuana, Weed With Roots In Hell" Lingle Chapel
11 p.m. Hall Discussion: "New Dimensions to Your Body" Martha S 105

Thursday, January 18
7 p.m. Julia Child: Open End

Friday, January 19
9 p.m. Condom Club, BYO
7 p.m. DAVIDSONIAN delivered
9 p.m. "The Art of Making Out" Martin Ball Room

Students To Scrape Bricks During Class

Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell announced today that students will scrape bricks during the two Saturday classes this term. It appears that the college saved the bricks from the old union to be used to extend Davidson’s network of brick sidewalks. “The problem is that the old concrete needs to be scraped off. This is where the students come in,” Cornell said. Students will report to their Saturday classes at the appointed times when they will be supplied with a metal hammer to scrape off the concrete. “Students say they want to help the college economy, so here's where they can help,” he said. Brick sidewalks are number one on our list of priorities. “After all, when you think it out what college doesn’t have brick sidewalks,” he added. “When I was out at Pomona they had brick sidewalks. These are essential to the modern college.” Historian in residence Chalmers Davidson hailed the brick scraping days as a new tradition at Davidson. A display case of bricks has been set up in the library and several books on bricks have been put on reserve, according to Davidson. In a rare display of controlled emotion, Student Body President Ralph Peeples responded to the announcement by saying, “No comment.” Several faculty members however were outspoken against the Cornell plan, but few could agree as to why they were against it. One faculty member said he was against the plan after he realized Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan supported it. When he learned that Bevan had proposed credit for the outing, the faculty member said, “That's just academic gold-” Bevan tried to explain that the brick scrape was a new, innovative, modern approach to interdisciplinary study which all the colleges are doing nowadays. But his efforts were fruitless.

Davidson Gets Threat in Nixon Ultimatum

The Nixon Administration has given the college until midnight tonight to dismiss or suspend certain professors and students considered offensive to the government or face “maximum and effective retaliation of the severest sort.” Usually reliable sources inside the government report that the Nixon administration, realizing how quickly the North Vietnamese buckled under when their cities were bombed, has decided to use similar tactics to bring dissident colleges into line in support of Nixonian politics. Whether the administration will choose to use such severe measures in the case of Davidson or not is uncertain. College officials refused to comment on whether specific forms of retaliation were given by the government. The college was contacted last week by government officials who gave the college 10 days to suspend notorious radicals on the campus or face an uncertain result. Professors William E. Jackson Jr. of the political science department and Max E. Polley of the Religion faculty, absent from the start of classes last week, were contacted in Davidson over the weekend but refused to comment on reports the college was using them to negotiate with government officials led by Gerald Friedheim of the Defense Department. Ironically, the two are reportedly on the list to be suspended. The condition worsened after the “Prayer for Peace” meeting on Jan. 4. The names of YMCA President Larry Duncan and ...Davidson (Continued From Page 1) Coach Wave Groaned, “but it’s not me I’m worried about as much as the fine young Wildcatters that will be deprived of their God-given right to belt people. Davidson has always enjoyed the reputation of being a tough-nosed bunch of fighters,” he

---added, "but now it looks like we're chickening out." Brickels thereupon offered to drive up to the Colonel Sanders in Mooresville and buy for everybody. Fagg declined comment. Fagg has reportedly been contacted for a special teams’ position at Alabama under "Bear" Bryant, but must wait until the present waterboy graduates before moving.

Terry Holland, head basketball coach, received word on the decision one day after the college was put on suspension by the NCAA for recruiting violations. The violation stemmed from an investigation which charged Holland with using another sports program to "cover up" a basketball scholarship recruitment. The player in question, 7'4" Edgar "Eiffel" Keszarsky, was reputedly a legitimate golf team ringer, until it was discovered that his handicap was 36—"either twice his shoe size or half his I.Q., whichever way you want to look at it," stated NCAA spokesman Farley Breen. "The whole thing is ludicrous," commented Holland. "Besides, Keszarsky shoots in the low seventies every time he goes out, and his golf game is improving too." "Anyway, this is the last straw," raged Holland as he prepared his resignation. "It proves that this place never cared at all about the job we were doing. I should’ve gone to Wake like Mom said."

Scott boozingly submitted his resignation along with Fagg and Holland, saying that he was "insulted because nobody even told me face to face. How humiliating! I had to find out from good ol’ Ray Turner, bless his little heart." Spencer dishearteningly accepted all the resignations but claimed that the college was "working on a sports schedule for next year." "So far we've contacted Washington and Lee, the Fort Bragg All-Stars, and the Hollins Intramural squad. It looks like it might be a good year for us."

Religion Professor Daniel Rhodes, one of the sponsors of the meeting, was added to the list. On the original list were Ernie Patterson and Charles Ratliff of the Economics Department, W. Brown Patterson of the History Department, and Thomas F. Clark of the Religion faculty (reportedly at the suggestion of Billy Graham as a threat to the religious unity of the country). Other students on the list were SGA President Ralph Peeples, McGovern campaign director Erwin Barron, and DAVIDSONIAN editor Rich Wilson. Dean of Students Will Terry was also listed.

The college administration, although denying the verity of the reports, has made some preparations for what it considers the inevitable result of standing up for academic freedom. Tuesday and Wednesday the college organ in Love Auditorium was secretly dismantled and boxed. It is to be moved during the day today. The two Xerox machines in Chambers will be moved to Mooresville for safekeeping after office hours. Sympathetic sources in the administration, contacted late Wednesday night, identified some of the sites reportedly on the bombing target list. These included the Rho Alpha Chi (PAX) house, Cunningham Fine Arts Building, and E. H. Little Dormitory (reportedly because men and women live together in it), in addition to Chambers Building. Hattie’s was also mentioned on the list of strategic support centers for the campus.

Participants Leave On ‘Organs Abroad’

"Organs Abroad," a new Davidson travel-study program, will send its first participants to Europe July 5-August 12. Music Professor Wilmer Hayden Welsh and approximately a dozen eager students will make the trip, checking out European organs of all shapes and sizes. "I couldn't think of a more pleasurable and satisfying way to spend the summer," Welsh said. "We’re hoping we can get inside some of the larger organs and really explore them in depth." The participants need not have any knowledge of music to make the trip. "All that we ask is that they be truly interested in finding out about some of the best and most interesting organs around."

Sophomore Bill Bass said he expected that the trip would be "titillating, even scintillating, perhaps. I think we can really get into those organs, especially if they let us play." Welsh stated that before the students leave, they will be given comprehensive instructions about what and what not to do with the organs. "We don’t want to get anyone in trouble because of ignorance," Welsh stated. Freshman Bob Fluter said that he had always wanted to see Europe and that, with this program, he could pick up some valuable experience on the side. "A well-made organ is an exquisite thing, and we’ll get to experience some of the best." Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said that he thought the program should be "quite an experience" and very educational. "I wouldn’t mind going myself," Bevan said. Other programs under consideration for future use include "Electric Organs of the Americas," "Accordions Abroad," and for science majors "Mammalia Abroad."

SGA Senate Disbands

(Continued From Page 1)

meeting, which were never acted upon, included appropriating a six-man tandem Schwinn 4-speed activities bicycle with optional tire pump and matching saddlebag for the WDAV staff, personalized trash spears for the work-study members, and locating the site for the Dean Rusk memorial sewage disposal unit scheduled for completion by 1987. When asked for his comment on the action, Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said that "It was an obvious political move, but it was at the wrong moment." President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. felt that it was "a darn shame, after the SGA had just gotten the hang of it." The "it" referred to a "harmonious balance of political effectiveness coupled with significant, and unpolluted matters of vital concern to everyone involved in the judicial system of this or any country that prizes its freedom," he said.