She Davidsonian April 27, 1973 Page Seven

Eight Undefeated Teams Lead IMAC

IMAC REPORT with BUCKY AND CAPTAIN AMERICA

The second week of IMAC softball saw several games which loosened up the standings somewhat. Last Wednesday, the always tough Kerwood Derbies shelled a hapless F & M #2 team into submission by a whopping 22-5 score. In a surprising nip and tuck affair, the Queen and His Twelve Very Nice Guys barely sashayed past the usually weak ATO's 2-1. A close game for the League C frontrunners. Emanon started their season by not playing as people on C-1 decided that it was a good day to go to the lake. C.A. and Y.B. seem to recall the flickerball days when the C-1 troops had trouble finding the right fields. Why these gallant, responsible lads field a team is beyond us. F & M #1 recovered quickly from an early defeat to the Cannoneers by stomping the wimpless people on W-IV 15-8. Perhaps the wimp disease is spreading through Watts.

Thursday's action saw the faculty not show for the second straight game. This rash of forfeits leaves us befuddled. It would seem that the boys with the degrees have been taking a few too many cuts lately. This of course will be taken into consideration on their final grade. Better start coming from now on. Meanwhile, in the games that happened, the Lakers flooded the basement of the Cannon boys in a 7-4 washout. That was C.A. and Y.B.'s worst pun ever. The KA’s increased their record to 2-0 last Thursday as they jumped over PDT #2 by a typical softball score 8-3. Dr. Pepper rebounded from its opening loss as they poured it on Alex and the Droogs 13-2, with a bit of the old ultra-violence. C.A. and Buck would like to make an apology, just a little one, to the DP’s for a reference to these, “hapless soft drinks," last week. Got to prove yourself, gentlemen.

Monday saw FDT #2 take another one to the kidneys as PDG ripped them 9-2. The Delts must be out for the beer. Surprise, Surprise! The Cranketeers, outstanding green shirts and all, pushed a victory across over crumpling cross-campus rivals S-1, 11-4. When asked about the win, S-1 captain Miles ‘Mad Dog” Ward replied with a classic obscenity. Thus the name Cranketeers. The divine Pope and his Court ripped the Delt seniors 2-1, in a game which featured outstanding pitching between Duff Bruce and the Delt’s Mike "Straight" Ernst. The ball didn't quite go straight enough for the Delts though. Undoubtedly the best game of the season so far. The SIF’s flexed their muscles a little as they laid out the Cannoneers 16-0. Steve Suflas twirled a six-hit shutout and was amply backed by Jerry Kroll's two home runs and a 300-foot blow by Sid Witz.

So by Monday it looked like this. In League A it's the SIF's at 2-0, and the SPE's and SAE's right behind with 1-0 records. The Queens and the KA's lead the B League at 2-0 so far. The PKA’s are close with a 1-0 record to date. League C rounds out with the IMAC leaders the Pope and His Court at 3-0 followed by the now famous Kerwood Derbies at 2-0. It should be quite a battle for the League C championship.

IMAC tennis started last Wednesday but no results are available yet. The bike race is scheduled for the weekend of the 29th. Technically, if you want to enter, get on your bike and go sign up at the IMAC office. Ten laps is a long way to ride on a hot day.

(Staff photo by Goodman)

CAUGHT RED-HANDED
Camera nabs an IMAC player tossing illegal pitch.

Connors Fills Big Track Shoes For Cats

By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

Mark Connors is trying to fill two big pairs of shoes this year. He has not completely done so, but he is heading in the right direction. The shoes he is trying to fill belong to two of last year's senior sprinters, Ray Sweetenburg and Tommy Richardson. Sweetenburg holds the Davidson total point record in a dual track meet. Connors, who last year as a freshman was predominantly a 440 man, has changed to a sprinter this year. He runs the 100 and 220-yard dashes and the 880 relay. He also runs an occasional 440 in the mile relay. This, however, is not Connors’ first year as a sprinter. He also ran the sprints when he was a high school junior in Suffern, New York. His senior year he became a 440 runner, placing second in theState track meet at 48.7 seconds. He likes the change to the sprints because, "the 440 takes more training than I have time for." Connors commented that the lack of training time really hurts the team’s chances. He sees a need for an improvement of the whole track system here at Davidson. Along with the relatively short period of time one can train and still maintain his studying habits, Connors also sees a problem in only having one coach for a sport that involves so many people. He has gathered a great deal of points thus far this season, including a few sweeps of the 100 and 220. His best time this year in the 100 was at VMI where he ran a wind-aided 9.6. His 440 times in the mile relay have gradually come down so that in the meet last Saturday against The Citadel, he ran a 440 in 50 seconds flat. The track team ends their season this weekend at East Carolina in the Conference meet. Connors prepares to be a busy man as he will run in the 100, 220, the 880 relay, the mile relay, and possibly the 440. Connors considers his chances slim in the 100 where he has trouble making up for his slow start. He is confident, however, about his chances in the 220 and also in the mile relay. The mile relay team will be made up of Dave Kittrell, Steve Fleming, Ricky Bell, and Connors. There is a good chance that this team could break the school record this weekend. Connors has not yet filled the shoes of Richardson and Sweetenburg but he is getting a good start.

Runners Gun For SC Finals After Strong Citadel Match
By BOB WETZEL
Asst. Sports Editor

Last Saturday afternoon in Charleston, S.C., The Citadel’s trackmen overcame a strong Davidson effort in a dual meet, 96-49. The Cat thinclads took seven firsts in the meet’s 17 events. Davidson Track Coach Sterling Martin called the effort "the team's strongest performance thus far." He added that "if we had better depth the point totals would have been much closer."

Taking individual firsts for Davidson were Mark Connors in the 100-yard dash, Steve Shankweiler in the shot put, David Crumpler in the discus, Steve Fleming in the triple jump, and Ricky Bell in the mile. Both the 440-yard and mile relay teams were also victorious. Many of the Cat performers turned in their best times ever in Saturday's competition. This gives Martin high hopes for the upcoming Southern Conference meet.

Bell ran a 4:20 mile in winning the event at Charleston. His archrival, Nick Pugh, finished second in one of the meet’s best races as Davidson freshman Jesse Smith took third. Martin was most impressed with Smith's strategy Saturday and feels that both he and Bell have a chance to be factors in the conference championship.

Martin was very pleased with the showing of his two victorious relay teams last weekend. The 440-yard relay of Dave Peaco, Connors, Fleming, and Dave Kittrell ran a 44.2 even though Connors has been suffering from a pulled groin muscle. The mile relay team of Fleming, Connors, Kittrell, and Bell was running together competitively for the first time Saturday and won in a respectable 3:24.2. Martin said that he formed this team by taking Fleming, Connors, and Kittrell out of the 220-yard dash and by having Bell pass up the three-mile competition in the hope that this group would be competitive. "Saturday's results seem to indicate that this group has a good chance of placing in the conference meet," he commented.

Other Cat performers to watch in the upcoming championships should be Crumpler in the discus, who placed fourth last year, and Greg Love in the high hurdles. Martin feels that both could finish high. He added that several of his other athletes have a chance to score. Most noteworthy in this group were Shankweiler in the shot, Connors in the 220, Peaco in the 440-yard intermediate hurdles, Bill Ralston in the javelin, Eppa Rixey in the high jump, and Jeff Diller and Jim DeVille in the hammer.

Furniture From ri ols ASE

COLLEGIATE NOTES
Understand all subjects, plays, and novels faster!
— Thousands of topics available within 48 hours of mailing
— Complete with bibliography and footnotes
— Lowest Prices are GUARANTEED

SEND $1.90 for our latest descriptive Mail-Order Catalogue with Postage Paid Order Forms to:
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH GUIDE
1 N. 13th St. mite. Rm 706
Phila., Pa. 19107
HOT-LINE (215) 563-3758

Billiard Tables
MOOR LANES
Daytime Student Rates
Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N. C.