Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

April 4, 1973

Teapot Dome Revisited

“Paranoia strikes deep. Into your life it will creep. It starts when you're always afraid. Step out of line, the man comes and takes you away.” 
-Buffalo Springfield

The Watergate scandal has caused the resurfacing of the disturbing feelings of paranoia and distrust once again in this country. Many people had hoped that the end of the Vietnam war would also somehow signify the end of the spirit of the late sixties, of a time when the law and order government of Nixon threatened to turn the nation into an armed camp, afraid of the young, the blacks, women, and other disenfranchised groups. Many people felt that the needless carnage in Vietnam was finally over, and that we could devote our energies to revitalizing our own society, making it a better place for everyone to live in. There was even hope that our financial priorities might be shifted, so that the senseless billions of dollars wasted on munitions, napalm, and the M-16, could be diverted to more useful channels.

Somehow, the Watergate scandal has sent all these dreams crashing to the same ignominious fate experienced by the many thousands of Vietnamese and Americans who died and were crippled there. It has revealed a gaping scar of corruption in the leadership of our country. Many now ask how can a government which is itself not above intrigue and espionage ever hope to lead us forward out of the tragedy of the sixties. What American could now have faith in that government? Yet, incredibly, Nixon has assured us that all will be taken care of, that we must go on to combat the more serious problems facing our nation. He will, he says, get to the bottom of the Watergate affair. Yet only weeks ago, he was claiming that there was no involvement by his people in the Watergate affair, that it was a “third-rate burglary.” In light of that deception, who can possibly believe in him now?

Despite Mr. Nixon’s assurances to the contrary, many questions remain as to what will be done now. In the first place, what assurances do we have that the men Nixon has appointed to fill the many vacancies in his staff will be any better or more honest than those he fired? On the CBS Evening News Wednesday, Walter Cronkite reported on the new White House aides. As could be predicted, there were no blacks or women, but instead more of the relative unknowns of which Nixon is famous for appointing. Who is going to believe that these men are any better than those they replaced?

In the course of the news, Cronkite presented several new problems which the government must tackle and solve. With regard to the recent Mississippi flood, there was Agriculture Secretary Butz saying that the floods were one of the unavoidable consequences of living along the Mississippi, and that the cotton farmers there would have to suffer as a result, without mentioning any aid that would be offered. However, the government was more than willing to bail out the Lockheed people recently. What is the difference between the two groups?

There was also the report of the narcotics squad who entered not one, but two of the wrong houses in pursuit of drug pushers, and threatened to kill at least one of the inhabitants, who was guilty of nothing worse than owning the house. This man reported that he had received calls from many others across the country who had received similar treatment. If such reports are accurate, then it is an alarming commentary on the nature of our police force. Is this the kind of enlightened society we can expect in Post-Vietnam? What kind of leaders do we have? How are they going to do anything about things such as this, when they can’t even keep their own house in order?

Now is the time when all Americans must seriously reconsider what is happening to this country, and save it before it is gone forever. For there is “a monster on the loose, he’s got our heads into the noose, and he just sits there watching.” But how much longer is he just going to watch?

The President

Five years can hold a lot of changes. Stagnation strongly discourages any tendency toward stagnation. But in the five years the president has been at Davidson, the college has done considerably more than merely escape stagnation. Certainly not all...can be completely attributed to Spencer’s influence—and he is the first to admit it. But more often than not, for the social and academic changes that have made Davidson life a little better, Spencer can claim at least some credit. Unfortunately, the people supposedly for whom the improvements were made—faculty and students—are feeling more and more the widening gap between themselves and the president. We recognize the time-consuming complexities associated with running a college. Nevertheless, we hope that very soon the top priority of a man so concerned with making Davidson a personal place will be to make himself more personal with Davidson.

Martin was a fund-raiser and less of an educator. He left this to his faculty. John Cunningham did all three well, but was perhaps best as an administrator. And Davidson now has two high-level educators. What Spencer has done, or has not done, since 1968 is a point of contention. Faculty sometimes feel that he has not made the best decisions. Before 1968, Davidson most closely resembled a large family doing well. Since that time it has come to resemble a small business experiencing growing pains. We will pass over such areas, though, to come to fund-raising. Since he became president, Dr. Spencer has added a number of administrators. There are more offices in finance, development, public relations, sports information, alumni, and special programs. The philosophy seems now to be “Spend money in order to make money.” And if this plan begins to work, it will dry up most of the criticism. What concerns many in 1973—students, faculty, parents, and alumni—is rising costs matched by fiscal irresponsibility. The comprehensive fee is raised. Davidson barely scrapes by in the black, and we tear down the student union. Things won’t wash here. Objections in this area then are two-fold. First, it is complained that the emphasis on financial matters is misplaced.

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Staff Writer

The Oratorio Singers of Charlotte, under the direction of Donald Plott, chairman of the Davidson Music Department, will present the Verdi “Requiem” tomorrow night at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. For the performance, the 150-voice chorus will be joined by a full orchestra and four soloists.

Forty paintings, drawings, and studies for sculpture will comprise an exhibition of works by A. B. Jackson in the Dwelle Gallery of the Mint Museum of Art. A group of works by Jackson, presently Professor of Art at Old Dominion College in Norfolk, will be offered for sale. The exhibition will continue until May 27 and admission is free.

The capstone, the highest college dignitary, and the leader of all these is, of course, the president. Within and without the organization, though, it is common to approach the president with both praise and criticism. It is that he has done enough with alumni and corporate gifts alone. How can all or most of the blame or the credit be put on only one man? The annual fund did well last year. So did other programs. But money is hard to come by. As Harlee Branch told the Board of Visitors last year, expanded social consciousness, fomented by the youth, caused many heavy gifts to go to welfare and medical programs. Schools suffered as a result. Educational programs now compete with other groups for available cash. Money is not so easy to obtain as it was 10 years ago. The president then walks a tightrope. He can probably sustain no more faculty votes of no-confidence. But by the same token, his financial policy of “Spend to obtain” must soon begin to pay off, for the security not only of his own job, but for the future of this college.

Photography by John Daughtry, presently a staff photographer for the Charlotte Observer, is being shown currently in the Garden Gallery of the Mint Museum of Art. The exhibition, which features two studies of “The House as Family Laundress,” and other selected works, will continue through May 27.

“Promises, Promises,” Neil Simon’s Broadway hit based on the screenplay “The Apartment,” is playing at the Pineville Dinner Theatre and will continue until May 20. With music and lyrics by Burt Bacharach and Hal David, the play has been described as having “one of the wittiest books a musical has possessed in years.” Tickets are from $7 to $10 and reservations may be made by calling the theatre.