The Plumber Flushes

Hoping to spend next year in graduate school in Boston, I have recently been reading about the history of that great city. The other day I stumbled across the story of the Boston Tea Party. In that same anthology was another less-well-known story entitled the Washington Dope Party. So, listen my children and you shall hear / Of the Washington Dope and the Tricky Year.

The characters in this story include Dick the Plumber, Pat the Wife, Warren the WASP, the Bork, and their cronies; Southern Sam, Slick Sirica, Conniving Cox, and their cronies; and the Feds. It just so happened, my children, that Slick Sirica and Southern Sam were convincing their cronies that Dick the Plumber should give over some merchandise which, according to the Plumber, they had no right to. Dick the Plumber was holding fast to his merchandise when, of a sudden, in rushed the Bork and he cried: “The Cox is coming! The Cox is coming!”

Dick the Plumber and Warren the WASP had to devise a plan quickly. Time was of the essence, my children, for Conniving Cox and Slick Sirica were being perfectly clear—they wanted that merchandise. The Plumber and the WASP were working on a convincing argument to present to Conniving, Southern, and Slick. It began: “When in the course of human events it becomes necessary for us to withhold everything, we will. Furthermore, at this point in history, the general public should not have access to this merchandise.”

Pat the Wife entered just as they were making some real progress with the negotiations. She was carrying a tray with the afternoon tea on it. Pat the Wife spoke chastisingly: “Why don’t you...

Sensible Men Cry For Reason In Corrupt Nixon Decisions

Corruption in government is nothing new, neither in theory nor practice. Consider, for instance, the following words of Samuel Johnson (written in 18th century England): “...when fancy, the parent of passion, usurps the dominion of the mind, nothing ensues but the natural effect of unlawful government, perturbation, and confusion...” Johnson’s antidote was simple, perhaps too simple for the 20th century America: let reason be society’s “lawful sovereign.”

Over the past 200 years, the United States government has strayed so far from the paths of reason that many would say that we long ago passed the point of no return. Reason has eluded us, along with other countries, in times of crisis. If the point of no return has, in fact, been reached, perhaps it was during the post-World War II cold war period. Powers, all wary of the others, souped up their espionage programs abroad, while at home they stockpiled their atomic and storerooms. If indeed the government was coming from White Houses and Kremlins, then the closest of supervision and advice was emanating from the military-industrial entities. This is a trend which has not been eliminated, although a heroic effort was on the verge of being made in the early 1960s.

Without going into the complex interstices of the Garrison school of thought (to which I rigorously adhere), I'll deem it sufficient to say that the Kennedy-Khrushchev era was not to last. At the time of the Kennedy assassination, there were approximately 17,000 U.S. troops in Vietnam under the guise of “advisory capacity.” Forty-eight hours or so into the new administration, the newly christened President Johnson met with Henry Cabot Lodge and committed full U.S. support to the cause of South Vietnam. Five years later, we were inextricably involved in a war to the tune of 500,000 troops.

And then there was Nixon. Nixon established civilian control over the military with various “check and balance” institutions. He was able to accomplish gradual withdrawal saving the icing of the cake for election time. Even at that very time, tension was mounting in the Middle East. And now the Middle East is over. Nixon’s recent response to the Middle East crisis—i.e., the national alert—was viewed by many as a maneuver to get the American public, however briefly, off his back with respect to Watergate. National response to this situation was commendable; the people of America began to call for...

Students React

Student rallies on the campuses outside perspective

By LEX VEAZEY

War II cold war period. Powers, all wary of the others, souped up their espionage programs abroad, while at home they stockpiled their atomic and storerooms. If indeed the government was coming from White Houses and Kremlins, then the closest of supervision and advice was emanating from the military-industrial entities. This is a trend which has not been eliminated, although a heroic effort was on the verge of being made in the early 1960s.

Without going into the complex interstices of the Garrison school of thought (to which I rigorously adhere), I'll deem it sufficient to say that the Kennedy-Khrushchev era was not to last. At the time of the Kennedy assassination, there were approximately 17,000 U.S. troops in Vietnam under the guise of “advisory capacity.” Forty-eight hours or so into the new administration, the newly christened President Johnson met with Henry Cabot Lodge and committed full U.S. support to the cause of South Vietnam. Five years later, we were inextricably involved in a war to the tune of 500,000 troops.

And then there was Nixon. Nixon established civilian control over the military with various “check and balance” institutions. He was able to accomplish gradual withdrawal saving the icing of the cake for election time. Even at that very time, tension was mounting in the Middle East. And now the Middle East is over. Nixon’s recent response to the Middle East crisis—i.e., the national alert—was viewed by many as a maneuver to get the American public, however briefly, off his back with respect to Watergate. National response to this situation was commendable; the people of America began to call for...

Reaction to Cox Firing

Students at Stanford University and the University of California followed President Nixon’s decision to fire Watergate investigator Archibald Cox. About 400 students gathered on Stanford’s White Plaza for a meeting led by the dean of the chapel Robert Kelly. Kelly said that President Nixon had set “a bad example” for today’s students. More than 400 students at the University of California called for a day of national mourning and said that all law schools should close. They also called for the impeachment of the President and voted to send a delegation to Washington to lobby for impeachment. Even after Nixon announced that he would turn over the Watergate tapes to a federal judge, students at Duke University, Florida State University, and the University of North Carolina staged rallies to demand the President’s impeachment. Reaction on other campuses came mostly in the form of petitions.a return to an age of reason. And the incentive is easy to see. More and more, we, the "fellow Americans," are subjected to phrases such as "the United States wants this" or "American policy is such and such." Have we let ourselves become literally as well as grammatically a "third person?" What voice have we had in ranking members who have recently been drawing convictions faster than the Nazis did at Nuremberg? What part have we been able to play in the tragic plight of a President who has not satisfactorily "vindicated his ways" to us? O Reason! "Come down from yonder height." If we must shun this "wavering man, betrayed by venturous pride," then let us shun him. And remember, of those "four more years," there are still three long ones left.

The Davidsonian
November 9, 1973

Seven Down

"Just give some to Sam; I can always buy more on the street in Georgetown." Seeing the tea and hearing these words, the Plumber's devious mind put together an ingenious plan. The first phase was to give the stuff over to Southern Sam at precisely the correct moment. The Bork was to perform the first step. Late one evening when Southern Sam was waiting for his wife to vacate the bathroom so that he could take a bath, the Bork entered, merchandise in hand. Southern could not wait to use the stuff. But Dick the Plumber also knew that Southern could never put off his bath. Southern Sam played right into the Plumber's hand. He took it to the bathroom to use while he bathed. (Meanwhile back at Camp David, the Plumber and his cronies were dressing up as Women's lib enthusiasts. The Bork almost ruined things and Sam's Dope got fired for not shaving his beard, but the Plumber remedied the situation by letting him be the wheel man.) When they were all dressed, the plumbers sped to Southern's house in their costumes, as happy as the ending of the Boston Tea Party story. Alas, Poor Richard was banned in Boston for using government money to buy the costumes that his cronies used in the Washington Dope Party.

... Perverted Politics (Continued from page 5)

Augustine, "... an unjust law is no law at all." Dr. King believed that one is morally obligated to obey just laws and morally obligated to disobey unjust laws. He understood that in disobeying a law he believed to be wrong, he was consequently obligated to bear whatever punishment the uninformed state demanded in payment. Karl Barth in his "Church Dogmatics" (III 4) makes the same case in regard to the selective conscientious objector: "The man who objects to military service must be prepared to accept without murmur or complaint the consequences of the insubordinate form of his national loyalty... the penalty of his violation of the existing law and constitution." The point Mr. Magruder failed to comprehend, a point that would justify his failing Coffin's ethics course, was simply that a tremendous gap exists between open disobedience and secret disobedience to law; between breaking the law to test its constitutionality and breaking the law for political reasons. The Watergate cover-up clearly shows that the last result those who were involved wanted was for their violation of the law to be exposed. More recently other witnesses in the Watergate hearings have argued that they believed their actions were justified in the interest of national security. Even this high motive does not excuse the underhanded way they acted upon their alleged patriotic conviction. While only the end can justify the means used to attain it, the end in no sense justifies every possible means. Some means simply cannot be justified. More than the Watergate defendants are on trial today; the law of the United States is on trial. Generally, the nation’s laws have served well in defending and protecting its citizens' lives, property, and essential freedoms while assuring the orderly conduct of society. In recent years specific laws have been tested by persons like Dr. Spock or the Catonsville Nine whose goals were not personal gain, but changing the laws of society. These lawbreakers are clearly in a separate category from common criminals; yet the law has been proven adequate if not sympathetic in resolving their cases. The issue before the country now is whether the law can justly try the equally nontypical lawbreakers whose violations as lawyers and political figures were perhaps seen as political duty. Indications are that the law is sufficient to meet this crucial test. No man is above the law whether he be a common thief, a high-ranking official, or a politician acting covertly to protect the nation against unspecified enemies. As long as the goddess of justice remains blindfolded, justice will be enacted with reasonable equity. If that blindfold slips and men in high office gain preferential exemption from the law, then the United States will have entered the unhappy era of the rule of men rather than the rule of law. This must not happen. If law prevails, then the chances are favorable that the United States can embark upon its next two hundred years as a rocky but enduring constitutional republic.