Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Young Bucky Missi

By Captain America

No LUCKY
(Ed. Note: In the space normally allotted for the intramural news, we have decided to let Captain America say almost whatever he wants. Next week, however, with the more accurate facts.)

Staff Photo - Goetz

SETTING UP THE SCORE
Tom Tournee sets up the play during soccer practice.

Booters Open Season Filled With Optimism

By JORDAN CLARK
Staff Writer

Davidson soccer appears to be entering the new season armed with enthusiasm throughout its ranks.

The Cat Booters host Guilford Tuesday in their first match under new head coach Chip Stone.

Although five starters have been lost off last year’s 7-5 team, Stone is decidedly optimistic about prospects for the coming season.

“Of course, we won't know until we’ve seen ourselves,” said Stone. “But I think we'll be a good team.”

The depth of the team and the enthusiasm of the players are certainly reason enough for such an outlook. But Stone also points to a new strategy he is eager to try out.

“Whereas our opponents will probably run in the traditional four-three-three zone, a conservative approach which lacks a great strength as well as a great weakness,” commented Stone, “we'll probably use a two-four-four setup. This is a much more liberal approach, one where we feel we'll be stronger both offensively and defensively. With eight men in midfield, we should be able to control the ball.”

The team now carries 26 players, including a sound turnout of freshmen. Co-captains elected last week are Donny Kain and Tom Tournee.

Stone looks to Duke as the big game of the year, saying, “We’ve never beaten them, but this should be a good game.”

Teams such as Duke, Carolina, and State, which have 10, 6, and 15 scholarship players respectively, will be running into a tough group of Cats. With no scholarships available, Davidson carries a quick, physical team loaded with players unburdened by the thought of

892-1467 or 1424

the barrier face of college. Captain America

lies in the space taken. Young Bucky is missing. His unique trace is in the zone. The name Young Bucky is so

The Davidsonian, September 14, 1973, Page Eleven

following the footsteps of an immense game. These days.

a few goals were ISS to develop the case for Sole Development. It was the South Side of Cleveland and in their IMAC, except the South Park where football is seen.

corner one IMAC news is close to the recruitment of Del Star. Most Penns After SUEDE “8T activities temporary, the app Purvis meet them. It was a time for one of the game's moments.

As the members in IMAC

“SESSaLSIves are pond

ng As IMAC Starts

AND

LONG

DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENTS

IN FRONT OF THE AWARDED COEDS’

REGISTER

PLUSH WILD KITTEN TO BE GIVEN AWAY AT THE ECU GAME OCT. 6.

THE VILLAGE STORE

SIGN UP EVERY TIME YOU'RE IN!

---

Note: Some parts of the text were unclear or seemed nonsensical, and I preserved them as they appeared in the OCR text.