Page Eight February 23, 1973 Sidelines WITH + 4 GORDON

Crisis In Athletics

There has been considerable talk recently about the status of football here at Davidson College. Columns appearing in past sports
pages have dealt with the positive points of this Davidson sport. These have prompted me to begin a series on
the problems of subsidized sports at Davidson and the possible alternatives the college can choose to improve the situation. Included
in this series will be a look at certain aspects of the sports program such as money, recruiting, allocations for
minor sports, and what Davidson has accomplished in the realm of sports in the past. In this investigation, we will
try to answer the question “why” to some of the present difficulties that we are encountering in athletics. We will
also face the pressing question of “Which is more important: winning, balancing the budget, or playing for the mere joy
of it?” Look for the series ‘Crisis in Athletics’ which will begin in an upcoming edition.

Notes and Quotes

Maryland's Lefty Driesell does not want to play in an organized conference. It sounds a bit like an instant replay
from Frank McGuire and the South Carolina Gamecocks. Of course, I guess if all my losses came in conference games,
I would be upset too.

Prediction Time

After amassing an astounding record of 3-0 in my recent try at clairvoyance, I am venturing once again into that
nasty predicament that plagues most sports writers. Holding off on a prediction on the winner of the conference tournament for
another week, I now see a big road win for the Cats at Dayton tomorrow. The Flyers are big and
strong, but the Davidson big men also should have another good game. The Cats are hot after their recent smashing
of Appalachian. Look for the Cats to take a relatively close win, with the margin being between seven and eleven
points.

The Tournament

The big date for all the marbles in the Southern Conference begins next week on the first day of March.
All eight SC teams will be in this event at Richmond, with the final regular season standings dictating the first
round opponents for each school. Davidson will go into the tourney with the number one seeding. The Cats are the
most likely choice for the crown, with Furman staging a close fight for the NCAA tournament bid. At the present
time the standings for the conference are:

Davidson 9-1
Furman 11-2
Citadel 6-6
East Carolina 6-7
William and Mary 4-6
Richmond 4-8
Appalachian 3-8
VMI 3-8

Tickets are still available for the event. So get your gal or go by yourself, and truck on up to
the Virginia city and support our boys in their quest for a bid to the Eastern Regionals first round.

Commendations

The school spirit at the Appalachian game was brilliant. The student body should be commended for their performance. But as
we all know, we are saving our best for the tourney.

===

Cats Destroy Mounties As Gerdy Pumps In 12

By CHARLIE SLAGLE Staff Writer

When the Davidson starting lineup was announced for last Thursday's game against Appalachian, there was a new name inserted which
brought a huge ovation from the crowd. This was Davidson's last Johnston Gym game of the season and senior Greg
Gerdy had received his first varsity start. The fans were not disappointed with Greg's performance. Greg played well above almost
everyone's expectations as he more than doubled his previous career scoring totals and helped the Wildcats defeat Appalachian 108-81.

The game's scoring opened when John Falconi passed up an 18-footer to feed Gerdy for an open 20-foot jump shot
which fell through and brought the crowd to its feet. After about three minutes of play, Coach Holland removed the
“Gerd” from the game and kept him under wraps until midway through the second half. Between Greg's departure and return,
the rest of the Cats dominated the weak Mountaineers and built up leads which reached into the thirties. When he
returned to the game, Greg continued to delight the crowd by adding 10 more points to jack his total to
12 on five for eight from the field. In limited action during his career, Greg had only scored nine points.This
seemed destined to be the “Gerd” night as fans had brought “Gerd” signs and came prepared to see a big
night from Davidson's illustrious bench-warmer. Greg also grabbed four rebounds in his 12 minutes of play and came out of
the game with less than a minute to go, receiving another standing ovation. The other senior on this year’s team,
captain John Pecorak, who received his normal starting role, scored only four points but pulled down eight rebounds to end
his Johnston Gym career. Although this was the seniors’ night, the underclassmen also shared the limelight. John Falconi had one
of his best games of the season as he led Davidson's scoring with 18 points. “Falcon” also contributed eight rebounds
and five assists. Four other players hit double figures in this game: Greg Dunn, Tom Pecorak, Steve Gadaire, and Jay
Powell pumped in 14, 12, 11, and 11 respectively as the Cats hit the century mark for the fourth time
this season.

(Staff photo by Goodman: GERD NIGHT Greg Gerdy moves in for the score.)

Swimmers ‘Fired Up’ For SC Meet After Two Straight Wins
By MARK CONNORS
Staff Writer

“Fired up” for the meet, Davidson defeated their perennial rival Emory and are now “shooting towards the Southern Conference meet
this weekend,” according to head coach Ted Severn. Davidson dropped Emory 62-50 in a closely contested meet two weeks ago.
“It was our big meet of the year,” commented Severn. “Emory has been a traditional rival and everybody was fired
up for the meet.” Although fired up, the meet was very close through the first eight events. According to Severn,
“The lead changed hands several times and it wasn’t until Rusty Saylor and Larry Urbon took first and second in
the breaststroke that we pulled away for good." Besides Saylor and Urbon, the Wildcats have several other standouts at Emory.
Jack Doscher took first in the 200 yd. backstroke. John Scholer took first in both the 500 yd. and 1000
yd. freestyle events. Scholer is the current Davidson record holder in the 1000 yd. freestyle. John Knox, premier diver, took
first in both diving events and “was a definite asset to the team” in the win over Emory.

Although the entire team swam very well, Severn emphasized the important roles of team captains Luther Beazley and Scott Davidson
in the victory. “Both Luther and Scott did an outstanding job in getting the team up for the meet. They
deserve a lot of credit. They helped make it a complete team effort,” he said. Snowed out of Augusta, the
next meet for the swimmers came against Johnson C. Smith University. Although not truly concerned about the meet, the Wildcats
downed them 66-30.

Skaters Cop 18-9 Win
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

The hockey club emerged with a lopsided 18-9 victory in their first game last week. The game was played in
Concord last Wednesday night with a Charlotte team. Due to lack of size, the teams were only able to skate
five players at a time, something which the Davidson players were used to, while their opponents were used to the
accustomed six players on the ice. Another factor in favor of the Davidson team was that the rink has no
zones painted on the ice, which makes for a very wide-open game. The team was able to turn their home
rink knowledge into a resounding victory once the game began. “We put our first line out and we just blew
them off the ice,” said Sean McCormack, “so we decided to put the second line out and they blew the
other team off too,” McCormack continued. The team has no other games scheduled at present and will continue to practice
once a week until some more games can be scheduled.

At present, the swimmers are preparing for the Southern Conference meet to be held at Lexington Feb. 22-24. Severn commented,
“We should have a tough time because of subsidization of other schools. However, we plan to beat Appalachian after the
close loss earlier this year to them. In addition, we hope to put Davidson up there on the scoreboard. I
am quite optimistic and the team morale is great. We're anticipating the Southern Conference meet with great enthusiasm.”
