Davidson Features Psychology Course

A special double course in abnormal psychology, including six weeks at the Broughton mental hospital in Morganton, is being offered this summer by Davidson College's psychology department to any qualified college student. In past years participants have come not only from Davidson but also from Queens, UNC-Chapel Hill, Johnson C. Smith, Duke, Brandeis, University of Georgia, and elsewhere.

“Our summer program provides an exceptional opportunity for students to learn about abnormal psychology in the valuable and impressive setting of a mental hospital,” said Dr. W. G. Workman, Richardson Professor of Psychology and director of the program. “We'll spend a week of intensive preparation at Davidson, ending August 4."

Participants must have completed general psychology and an introduction to personality, and must be recommended by their home institution's psychology department. The students will not only observe the workings of the hospital—they'll actually work on the wards for six weeks, including two different programs, such as admissions, general chronic, geriatric, alcoholic, token-economy, and adolescent. They will be involved in a therapy group and keep a journal. They will attend three 90-minute classes per week and conduct an individual research project. Tuition will cost $450 for room and board. Each will receive $300 for his ward work to partially offset these costs.

“This is a strenuous and demanding program which will entail some sacrifice of the usual college amenities,” said Dr. Workman. “We believe that the advantages make the hard work and sacrifice worthwhile.” Interested students may contact Dr. Workman at Davidson College, Davidson, N.C., 28036.

PERSPECTIVE
By HUGH MOORE
Contributing Editor

The Scholarship Finalists Program entertained 37 of Davidson's top applicants Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday. All of these applicants have been accepted and are now vying for competitive scholarships, such as the McConnell, which carry stipends determined on a need basis. Each of the competitors, 26 men and 11 women, were interviewed by a committee comprised of one member of the admissions staff, two or three faculty members, and one student. They also attended receptions Sunday night at the Carolina Inn and Monday morning at the President's Home. A banquet was given in their honor Monday night. The applicants stayed in the dormitories and visited some of the classes.

“They were impressed by the friendliness of the people and the interest which the students had in them,” Assistant Director of Admissions and Financial Aid William S. Miller said. “Most of the students also liked the campus and thought it compared favorably to others they had seen,” he added. Miller admitted that the program is not only a competition but serves as a “recruitment device” as well. “These students are the best of our applicants,” he said. “They have been accepted at places like Harvard, Dartmouth, and Amherst. We would like to enroll all of them, but realistically we hope we can get at least half.” Of the 37, five have already decided to enroll and have paid a tuition deposit.

The Davidsonian
April 13, 1973
Page Three

ARTIST AT LEISURE
(Staff photo by Powers)

Ken Freed has been commissioned to do several paintings for the college.

Freed Paints Triptych
By VAL VAN HORN
Asst. Features Editor

He appears to examine canvases in the back of the art studio. The canvases are tall, he is taller, which is a good arrangement since he refers to a 6’ x 5’ canvas as “medium.” Ken Freed is now planning to work on a large canvas, an 8’ x 8’ triptych, or three-panel painting. The Union has given him a grant from the Student Activities Fund for that purpose. Ken perches on a stool, thinking of his painting. Although possessed with a thick beard and mustache, he has not the nervous habit of stroking them while concentrating.is in his Barber Revamps Spring Theatre Presentations By FRAZIER MARSH Staff Writer This season on the Davidson campus promises to be quite an experience in theatre magic. Rupert T. Barber has turned the proscenium over to the students of the Theatre Tutorial and the Theatre Workshop. A burgeoning student interest in drama has caused a change in format for Davidson drama productions during the spring term. Instead of one major production, energies will be diffused into a steady series of one-act plays, some original creations of Davidson students. “There’s so much interest in drama now that I can't possibly use all the available talent in one production,” said drama director Rupert T. Barber Jr.

Last week the first theatre workshop production, “The Emigrants,” was presented as part of the Scandinavian Seminar. On Tuesday, April 17 at 7:30 p.m., the second in a series of five workshop productions will be presented. The plays to be given are original one-acts written by students of Davidson College. The plays are being directed by the students from the Drama Tutorial class. “Chicken Soup,” written by Mary Hobbie, is an experimental piece of drama which should be quite interesting. It is being directed by Bob Wright. The cast also includes faces which are new to the Hodson stage.

The next production will be an original written by John Scholer entitled “Billy’s Life in a Day.” This play will be directed by Sarah Hill. A social comment on the generation represented by our own parents, this production appears to develop into an interesting work. The last of the plays will be another experimental drama piece. The play, “Of Trivial Importance,” was written by Bill Morris and will be directed by Jeanne Ann Williams.

On April 27 and 28, an old-fashioned melodrama will be presented several times during the alumni-convocation weekend. It will include songs and dances and will encourage hissing and booing, Barber said. Hodson Hall will be set up as “The Stage Wagon Theatre” for the occasion. May 1 is the time for two more original plays. “Columns” has been written and will be directed by Caroll Ensley. And “A Look at the Fifties” will be the production of Frazier Marsh. Starting time is 7:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. Only freshmen and sophomores will be performers. “In all these productions, sets and costumes will be minimal,” Barber said. “Ingenuity and creative imagination will be needed for both participants and audience.”

With $100 Union Grant medium. “The painting is going to be one large room with different objects. I don’t want to commit myself further than that. The painting will change as I paint, part of it will be destroyed by the motion of the acrylic I paint with. I do action painting, where part of the canvas is destroyed as the paint moves — destruction-creation, nature of action. I haven't started work on it since the canvas hasn't come in yet. I'll have to stretch the canvas on the frames — I'll probably start work on it this weekend.

“Do you know when the Student Art Show is?” Ken asks a sudden question with a faint smile. “Well, it’s toward the end of the year and the large one should be ready for it. I'm doing the painting for two reasons. One of them is the freedom of working with the large canvas. It’s a psychological thing working with a large canvas...the other is to leave something of me to Davidson, to all the people who have helped me here. One of the conditions of the grant is that the painting is connected with Davidson. At first I thought that working on it here with the students coming in and watching would be enough, but

ACCEPTANCE These students, seven sophomores and two juniors, have been selected for the Bowman-Gray Medical School early acceptance program.

Douglas Aiken
Duncan Baker
Richard Deal
Ken Fabert
Darron Ferris
David Hassel
Robert Jacobs
Murray Lumpkin
James McElveen