Page Six April 6, 1973 The Davidsonian

‘Miscellany’ Features Exaltation, Anathema

A REVIEW

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Staff Writer

In the past, the “Miscellany” organization has probably produced better examples of their publication known as The Miscellany (a Davidson
Review). Almost certainly it has produced worse. Unfortunately, from such a division it would appear that the present “Miscellany” lies
somewhere in the dismal Never Never Land of mediocrity, an appearance which is not at all the case. If anything,
the anthology is not mediocre. It has in it things which are thrillingly good, but also a surprising number of
extremely ill-conceived, ill-thought elements. Consequently, since portions of the work rate exaltation, while others cry only for anathema, it is
obvious that the Miscellany as a whole deserves neither.

Smith Cornwell's “Poets & Other Scurrilous Creatures” definitely lends excellence to the magazine. His Holen Stoneworth, the fiftyish, George Blanda
firm, and Concrete poet is the type of every twentieth-century hero-anti-hero, while the whole story is superb in that it
verges upon, but subtly avoids, the bitter epilogue which a Vonnegut would add to the tale. The recipient of an
Honorable Mention in the Miscellany’s writing contest, Ernest Krol’s “Smoke” is one of the better poems of the anthology, and
certainly the most royally fantastically oriented. Equally good were Margherita Wood's sensuous “The Black Woman” and Ann Deagon’s “La Figlia
di Dracula.”

But side by side with these and other fine pieces of prose and poetry, there are some truly lamentable examples
of verse, which even more inexplicably tend to exhibit an UNCANNY CONSISTENCY. In these poems, there is an overwhelming amount
of sentimentalism and romanticism. Although it is probably just the current trend in poetry, there also seems to be an
alarming number of scatological references in the separate poems. There are at least five distinct references to human and animal
excrement and several to the excretory and sexual organs, which in only 35 selections is an awesome number. But I
suppose such affectations are merely peculiarities of taste alien to my own.

Completely incomprehensible to me, however, is one aspect of outside perspective.

By LEX VEAZEY

Police Search Dorm

Dean Tribble and accompanying police recently raided a dorm at Emory University. According to residents of the dorm, no individual
rooms were searched, but the coke carton on which most of the dorm had hidden its stash was discovered. One
source said that the dorm raid was a mistake and added that the stimulus for the bust was another dorm’s
resident who grew three-foot-high marijuana plants on his window sill. This report was reaffirmed by a resident of the raided
dorm who insisted that he had seen the search warrant for a room in the other dorm. He said that
the officials apparently had become confused, and the wrong men’s dormitory was searched. One of the residents of the busted
dorm expressed anger at Emory University for the action. “I personally think that it’s ridiculous that the school called the
police and started searching all around a men’s dorm for just dope,” he said. “This is especially true since at
the beginning of the year they had told us that we knew what would happen if they found dope, but
they wouldn’t go looking for it. Their attitude has radically changed. We hope this won’t be a regular occurrence.”

W & L Students Approve Coeducation

In a recent vote, Washington and Lee students overwhelmingly approved coeducation for the university. The vote was 799 students, or
59 percent, for coeducation and 550 students, or 41 percent, against coeducation. Student Body President Bob Brennan noted that it
was the heaviest turnout for any issue on campus that he has seen. The 1349 students who voted represent over
80 percent of the student body. No action will be taken directly as a result of the recent vote. The
purpose of the vote was only to find out student opinion regarding the coeducation issue.

It must be remembered that for the 11 Davidson contributors, only two or three submitted literary art. On the other
hand, nine submitted photographs, while five are represented on photographic illustrations of their sculpture. It seems manifestly unfair to these
artists to have their three-dimensional sculptural medium reduced to the limitations of a two-dimensional photograph. Thus, it is clear that
there are elements of the present issue of the Miscellany which are justifiably subject to criticism. But it is evident
from the dearth of student contributions that Davidson student interest in the magazine is on the wane and perhaps partly
responsible. More student participation, both editorially and literarily, could solve many of the Miscellany Organization’s problems.

THE DELICATE ART

The Joffrey Ballet Company, the most important artist series program this year, will perform on April 13 at 8:15 p.m.
in Love Auditorium. Student tickets will be free at the Union desk until noon on the day of the performance.

Singer Bonnie Raitt Projects Energy In Joplinesque Style

By JOE EARLE
Associate Editor

If you discovered Bonnie Raitt singing in a...Bar somewhere, you might take her for a barmaid from a 17th Century
romance. She drinks heavily, curses, talks brashly and loudly, and sings songs about sex and pain. Not one of those
New York-style glamour girls that jump out of magazines or those aged cheerleaders that show up singing on TV, but
a blues-folk singer of the type seen only rarely outside of seedy bars since the late forties or early fifties.
Bonnie has all the tough exterior of her bar-singing predecessors, but the smooth style and intelligence of a professional. She
has class. Like Billie Holiday. Or Bessie Smith. Or Janis Joplin. In fact, Bonnie will probably inherit the mantle Joplin
left when she died. She has all of Joplin’s ability to project pain, all her sensual appeal, and all her
presence. Bonnie also has an ability Joplin never really realized: the ability to put together a good, lasting record. Bonnie
has put out two records in the last two years, and both stand as outstanding contributions to the popular canon.
Joplin was always limited by her bands and seemed unable to establish herself in relationship to her music. Raitt has
neither of those problems. Instead, she has carefully put her music together, choosing arrangements and sidemen that can best complement
her songs and style.

I had the good fortune to see Bonnie perform a little over two months ago at the National Entertainment Conference
in Cincinnati. She was singing as part of a show at a party given for delegates to that convention. The
party was held at a local bar, and she was billed with the Doobie Brothers and Martin Mull. The concert
was a disaster for her. The audience was three-quarters drunk on the free beer, tired, and totally unresponsive. She had
sound problems. But for all her bitchiness and frustration, I felt that the show proved what I had believed all
along: she was unique and had style. She came out onto the stage shyly, and sitting up there with only
her bassist Freebo to back her up, she looked more vulnerable than she had ever appeared on record. But once
she started to sing, the unbelievable beauty and preciseness of her voice and her fine guitar playing brought back the
Joplinesque tough girl. Actually, her voice proved to be her downfall at that show. The soundmen were evidently a little
too taken with it and kept turning down the guitar mikes. She had been drinking a little and was argumentative,
and finally apologetic about the situation. The situation quickly turned off most of the students there. They were all concert
promoters and dismissed her as an act for their schools because of her drinking and bitching. I have never been
so mad at a crowd since the audience walked out on Bette Midler last year at Davidson. Bonnie's real problem
was that no one would listen to her. The soundmen coolly ignored her requests. (And they should have listened, for
her guitar work is as fine as about anyone who is making the rounds today, if not better). Still, she
pulled it off: with class. She stayed on stage and sang beautifully and kept her cool. By the end of
the show, she had a good number of the audience with her simply because of her talent. But more than
that, she'll make it because she has class. She's as tough as she appears. Yet inside her is the lady
who really does care, and she has the ability to express that part of her through her music. If you
haven't heard Bonnie, go pick up a copy of “Give It Up.” It’s a fine record by a performer who
simply cannot be denied her place in pop music.

Meat Boycott Week Indicates Lack Of Community Spirit

To the Editor:

This week has been named Meat Boycott Week by national consumers groups. All across the nation, hopefully housewives and others
are trying to halt the rising price of beef by refusing to buy or eat meat this week (and by
having meatless Tuesdays and Thursdays thereafter). What, you may ask, has this to do with Davidson College? Everything. Davidson declares
itself to be part of the community. However, when something as important as consumer affairs is confronted, there is little
or no response. It simply is not as exciting or as noticeable as war protest. As a case in point,
I take the menu at Richards House. The Meat Boycott has been well publicized, yet there are no meat-alternative meals
served (chicken, fish, macaroni, etc.). One way to get students to support this boycott is to offer such alternatives. Fraternities
should request that their cooks stop serving meat. Members of the faculty should observe the boycott as an example to
the students. Of course, it is doubtful that this boycott will significantly lower retail prices, but at least it will
give consumers a chance to show their strength and unity. The question remains not whether the consumer movement will succeed,
but whether Davidson College will participate.

Peter Celentano ‘71
Michael Scott ‘73
Davidson College
