(Staff Photo by Goodman)

THE END OF PINBALL?

Pete Celantano pounds on a pinball game to take out his frustrations as Bonnie Henesy watches. Unless this, and other more serious acts of vandalism to the machines are stopped, there is the possibility that the College Union may be forced to remove the machines altogether.

Union Confronts Pinball Vandalism
By CHARLES KENNON
Staff Writer

The future of the pinball machines in the College Union has been thrown into jeopardy. Wanton acts of vandalism against the machines have increased sharply in the past few weeks. For example, the glass on several machines has broken, and the machines’ wall sockets ruined.

To halt such acts before the extent of damage becomes more substantial, the executive committee of the Union Board met and formulated new policy guidelines for using the Union pinball facilities. Assistant Director of the Union Duff Bruce explained the move saying, “We will keep the machines where they are for now, but we'll keep an eye out for outsiders to see if they are responsible for the damage. If they are the ones responsible, then they will be barred from the Union,” he said. He added that if the Union Board found that students were involved, then the machines might well be removed from the Union entirely.

Measures to tighten up security include locking the back door more often, and treating the machines properly. Bruce urged all Davidson students to take better care of the pinball machines if they in fact want them to remain a part of the Union’s available activities.

Giduz Recommends
By BILL GIDUZ
Staff Writer

(Ed. note: This is the second of a four-part series focusing on the JYA experience. This story is from a returning senior who spent his junior year studying in France; these are his reactions to that experience.)

I’m continually amazed that more Davidson students don’t take advantage of the JYA-France opportunity offered them, but I’m looking at it from the tail end of nine months over there. A bias toward the program and France in general develops quickly in that time, and the benefactors of those days abroad find it hard to understand any reluctance felt by someone who has the chance to go.

It’s hard to explain the total positive feeling about JYA to a freshman or sophomore, and in trying, a Montpellier veteran usually ends up making a fool of himself. Unfortunately, slides of Paris and vineyards and narrow cobblestone streets and incredible stories of six and eight course meals convey only the aspects of JYA similar to any whirlwind two-week American Express tour of that country. Veteran JYA people hate to sound like your next-door neighbor who just got back from the Continent, loaded down with wine and perfume and a three-inch miniature of the Eiffel Tower. These outer trappings are a small part of JYA, but it is impossible to explain the mental effect of a school year abroad, which is the most lasting and important part of it.

The difference between a year of study at Montpellier and an extended vacation, besides the study aspect, lies in cultural communication, a concept that can’t be grasped until it is experienced. A tourist may sit down in a cafe and manage to order a beer. Unless someone there speaks English, he will end up quaffing his brew in obscurity and return to the hotel in time.

Davidson Endowment
(Continued from page 3)

3) Anticipated interest and dividends from marketable securities in 1973-74 (provided by the college’s investment council) is subtracted from the 5 percent computation in step 2 to determine endowment funds principal (funds added to endowment by action of the Board of Trustees) or realized gains applicable thereto.

The formula that is used is designed...To smooth out the fluctuations in total value which can occur, the determination of available revenue from invested funds is made approximately five months prior to the beginning of a new budget year. The portion of total return suggested. Over the past three years, Davidson's cumulative rate of return has been approximately 19.6 percent on total marketable securities. This is considerably above the 5 percent rate which the college uses to determine income. The endowment is split into three categories: true endowments, term endowments, and funds functioning as endowments. True endowments are those funds restricted as to principal and income. Term endowments are funds that the donor restricts for a set period of time for a specific use. Funds functioning as endowments are gifts and grants not restricted by the donor. The college invests much of the endowment fund in stocks and bonds. As of June 1973, $9,120,000 was invested in common stocks, $4,442,000 in bonds, and $230,668 in preferred stocks (all figures represent book, not market, value). The total market value of the Davidson endowment as of June 30, 1973, was $22,424,414; the book value was $16,236,978.

He’s an alien and knows it, not that there’s anything wrong with that. Nothing wrong with his inability to do more, but there is something so much more right with being able to talk to the bartender and feel comfortable in the surroundings. It’s an undefinable feeling of pride that somehow increases enthusiasm toward the year. Half of last year’s JYA-France students have definite plans for returning after graduation. One couldn't wait that long; he repacked his bags three weeks ago and left. Still, even the most ardent backers of the program don’t seem to be able to tell why their support is so fervent. What you're left with is a group of seniors telling underclassmen to go JYA-France, but when the prospect asks why, the chagrined senior has to say he can’t explain it, it can only be experienced. Not a very good sales pitch, I agree, but an honest one.

As for outer trappings, the only medium of communication left, we can only say the same things that can be read in a book or seen in “Gidget Goes To Paris.” The Alps dwarf the Appalachians, and even the Pyrenees host some excellent French JYA Program ski resorts. Weekends on the Riviera are distinctly possible, and more than once we took an all-day journey to Barcelona to see the world’s only white gorilla in the zoo there. Daily life is a combination of classes at the somewhat sterile-looking university, meals at the run-for-your-life student restaurants, and a late afternoon “pastis” at places like the Bar Miami. With the help of one of the lightweight, cheap motorized bicycles whose riders display superb skill and complete foolishness with their death-defying maneuvers in rush hour traffic, no point in the city is more than 10 minutes away. No need to even mention the bread and wine; one member of the group went through a two-week withdrawal period when he returned and faced a peanut butter sandwich on flat bread.

We crusaders for the Davidson year in France program find ourselves continually tested in our efforts to explain our enthusiasm. Unfortunately, the more we try, the more we realize that the experience is inexplicable, and the more we find ourselves reverting to the weak plea, “You just have to go to understand.”

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
2D JEWELERS
CONDE
Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N. C.

TRUST COMPANY
112 South Main Street

Feomont Insurance
137 NORTH MAIN STREET
P.O. BOX 2348
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036