New Theatre Debuts With Melodrama Play

A PREVIEW By FRAZIER MARSH Staff Writer

Amidst the concerts, parties, and ballooning exhibitions this weekend, there will also be a play presented by the students of the Drama Workshop. The Drama Workshop in Cunningham has been going through some drastic changes since this month began. Mike Ramsey has turned the workshop into the Showboat Theatre for the presentation of a melodrama, "Curse you, Jack Dalton." The show is being directed by Jeanne Ann Williams.

When asked about the Showboat Theatre, Williams said, "The audience will be sitting in layers from the floor to the newly constructed balcony. It makes a much more intimate theatre, while trying to capture the feeling of the old showboats of years past." The distance between stage and audience is only a few feet wherever one sits. Everyone will be able to see and participate. "The intimacy of the theatre lends itself to audience participation which is an invaluable part of the production," Williams added. "How good a melodrama is depends on the audience and how well they respond to the play."

Everything from the program to the costuming will be totally 1890's. "The villain is so bad and the hero is so good, as a result, everyone will find it very easy to identify with the hero," she explained. "I mean with lines like, 'Many a heart that beats beneath calico is more worthy than that covered by silks and satins,' how could the audience not help but cheer?"

The characters in the play may seem rather formal to the audience, but this is to keep the drama representative of the nineteenth century. Some of the acting may appear to be hamming, but that is only another representative feature of the old melodrama. "The play will give the actor a chance to ham to the best of his ability. The play depends on the audience and how well it participates. The actors will be better if the audience plays with them," Williams said.

There will be plenty of concessions for all in the theatre. With the purchase of the ticket, you will receive a bag of roasted peanuts to eat or whatever. There will be entertainment between each act of the play. "The entertainment will include comedians, prestidigitators, and of course song and dance routines," she added. "Though not as heavy as the previous Davidson College performances, the melodrama will be an action-packed hour of fun," Williams stated.

The production will last about an hour. Performances will be this afternoon at 2:15 and 3:45 p.m., tomorrow morning at 10:15 and 11:15 a.m., and at 2 p.m. tomorrow afternoon in the Showboat Theatre of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Come to Cunningham and laugh away an hour in the Showboat Theatre. I guarantee it will be an unforgettable experience.

The Davidsonian - April 27, 1973 Page Three

(Staff photo by Goodman)

REHEARSE THE CURSE Jenny Andrews and Jeff Allender prepare their parts.

Blue Oyster Cult: Raunch-Rock Leaders

By JOE EARLE Associate Editor

ED. NOTE: Blue Oyster Cult will be featured in Love Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. on Friday night.

One of the great closet traditions of rock and roll is the facet of music dubbed raunch-rock. Raunch-rock has been around a long time, dating back to Elvis’ Pelvis, and probably further, but it has been generally maligned or at best ignored. This was the type of music that stirred parents up in the fifties. It was preached against in the churches, attacked in the papers, and fought in every teenage household in the country. Raunch-rock was the reason they wouldn't show Elvis from the waist down on

FROLICS WEEKEND: A Spring Spectacular

College Honors Lilly This Weekend For Life-Long Student Dedication

By GRAY WILSON Associate Editor

There is probably not a single student here who knows Dr. Henry Lilly, but to much of the permanent structure at Davidson he is one of the best things that ever happened to the school. I knew of him only because he retired after 39 years as a Davidson English professor at a house just down the street from where I live. About the only time the neighborhood saw him was when he went out in the evening to take his dog out for a walk around the block.

This weekend, however, he will leave his home in Boone, N.C. and come to Davidson to receive an honorary degree at the spring convocation. "I don’t deserve this honor," he pleaded over the telephone, "I really don't. All I did was to try to teach, and I enjoyed it. I'm one of those people who simply loves teaching."

Lilly graduated from Davidson in 1918, but six years later after fulfilling all the duties that always plague someone the minute he leaves college, he returned to teach English. He worked the regular basic courses, but soon was involved with an honors program for an advancedFreshman group. "Then I was working with, say, the top 12 men in freshman English. We conducted a survey beginning with Sophocles, Plato, Virgil and continuing through the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. We studied Rabelais, Cervantes, Shakespeare, Goethe and got all the way up to the present day, which was Shaw." These freshman honors were modeled after a program at Harvard and resemble the present Humanities studies. In addition, Lilly taught courses in Spenser, Renaissance poetry and prose, 18th century prose, Romantic poetry, and modern drama. He also instructed a course entitled "History of the English Language" which centered on his life-long hobby, the study of words and their origins.

When he left Davidson a full professor in 1965, not only the English Department but the entire faculty was reluctant to let him go. He was one of the few men who endeared himself to all his associates, and professors still allude to him with nothing but respect and admiration. Appalachian State University was eager to enlist the services of a veteran newly settled in their midst, so they signed Lilly on in 1967 for four more years instructing the choice courses in Chaucer, Milton, and Spenser for upperclassmen and graduate students. Now at 76 he has returned for good, spending most of his time wrapped up in word studies he has been carrying on for years. Though he has compiled a great deal of information, he has no plans to have anything published, simply because he thinks "It's just not that good."

So once again Dr. Lilly, along with his wife Grace, will visit a school which has not forgotten his many capable years of service. Whatever criticisms might be leveled against the cost and carnage of convocations, and whatever real losers might have been crowned in past years, no degree candidate deserves the honor more than a man who has devoted his life to Davidson College.

It was the reason you couldn't play rock and roll in high schools. It was basic sex, and back in the good ole days it was dirty. But the sixties changed all that. Rock was cleaned up. I mean, who wouldn't have taken the Beatles home to Mama back in '64? They were clean. And nice. And especially cute. Raunch-rock turned into teeny-rock, with magazines and Lloyd Thaxton. It wasn't dirty anymore. And, dammit, it wasn’t near as much fun. But the evils of raunch-rock held on. Jim Morrison did his best to keep it alive (and you saw where it got him). Still, he was ok, because he was metaphysical and all. Talked a lot about snakes.

It took the decadent seventies to bring raunch-rock back. Along with all the other nifty things from the fifties (cars, clothes, a President), we now have a resurgence of good nasty rock and roll. In the forefront of this new spirit is Blue Oyster Cult. The Blue Oysters are from New York, a town that helped preserve one of the all-time great raunchy bands, the Velvet Underground.

---

Where It’s At

Friday, April 27
1 p.m. - All day Carnival Rides, Main Street Parking Lot
2:15 p.m. - Drama: "Curse You, Jack Dalton," Drama Workshop
3 p.m. - Lazy Afternoon, Cunningham Lawn
7:30 p.m. - Concert: Blue Oyster Cult, Love Auditorium
10 p.m. - Zany Talent Show, Rathskeller
10 p.m. - Film: "Fillmore," Baseball Field
10 p.m. - Coffee and Donuts, Union

Saturday, April 28
All day - Carnival Rides, Main Street Parking Lot
11:15 a.m. - Drama: "Curse You, Jack Dalton," Drama Workshop
2 & 4 p.m. - Film: "Fillmore," Love Auditorium
2 p.m. - Drama: "Curse You, Jack Dalton," Drama Workshop
2:30 p.m. - Square Dance, Front Lawn
4 p.m. - Balloonist, Richardson Stadium
8 p.m. - Concert: Freddie King, Love Auditorium
11 p.m. - Chambers Nite Club: Matthew and Peter, Chambers Banquet Hall & Union
---

The Cult continues New York raunchiness. You couldn't take them home to Mama. The band's instrumentation is done in the classic rock vein: two guitars, drums, bass, singer, keyboards, with a bit of synthesizer thrown in. None of the members is particularly outstanding on his instrument but they are all good, and they work together. The problem with it is that the boys take themselves too seriously. Take "Tyranny and Mutation," their new album. They don't seem content to be just sexy, they've gotta be metaphysically evil, too. The album's other great drawback is the band's efforts to get "heavy" with the production. They incorporate a lot of little side effects like feedback intros and metallic fadeouts that simply get obnoxious after a couple of quick listenings.

Despite their drawbacks, Blue Oyster Cult does what they do well. They have a very compatible set of musicians who work the most out of the old high energy music, and a good lead singer. There is a lot of metal and flash, but everything is geared toward the basic excitement of the music.