Tails Of
By JOHN McELVEEN

Once upon a time, in a small wooded area of the North Carolina Piedmont, there lived a family of squirrels.
Now these squirrels weren't your average type squirrels, for they were considerably more industrious and had a brighter coat of
fur. And being so industrious, they established a chain of command: Van, a short, creative-type squirrel who, on clear days,
had the peculiar habit of staring into the blue sky, held all the power of the group and generally what
he said went as the WORD. Yes, on some days of very fair weather, he could be seen staring hour
upon hour into the vast blue horizon.

Another prominent member of this isolated community was Fessor. Fessor, unlike Van, was a wood looker instead of a sky
watcher—and indeed, he prided himself in this aspect. He observed the changes of seasons and the subsequent results. Fessor thus
knew when and how to gather those precious nuts. It was Fessor’s job not only to accumulate this knowledge but
also to impart it to all the other squirrels, who, due to the diversity of names ranging from Clod to
Bo, were referred to as SAGA. Now Fessor realized that the more nuts you had, the brighter was your fur.
Thus he instructed the SAGA well in the ways of gathering nuts.

SAGA was a very well-disciplined group on the whole, though all the little squirrels remembered recalcitrant Burney. Consequently, everything went
smoothly: the nuts were gathered by the barrels, everyone had plenty to eat, and their furs grew brighter and brighter.
Eventually, they were so bright that no longer was this isolated community unknown. News spread quickly throughout the other wooded
areas of the Carolinas. All looked upon this colony with admiration—some with envy.

Then one day (I think it was back in '73) things began to change. The once well-sapped and synchronous system
began to get out of kilter. Van suddenly decided that he wanted more nuts gathered in a shorter period of
time—for no particular reason. (I mean there was no handwriting in the sky, etc.) Thus, both Fessor and the SAGA
were informed of this decision and set out immediately. They had previously enjoyed gathering these nuts, even though many times
traveling long distances to find them. Most of their nuts were found in the county of Libra.

---

Mother Regrets Race Barriers; Retains Black Tie
Patterson

To the Editor:

I am the mother of a Davidson Junior, and I've been reading with interest the articles on both sides about
the BSC proposals. My son's choice of Davidson as his college was his own. He could have gone anywhere he
chose, applied to five, and was accepted by all. The literature we received on Davidson's concern for recruiting Black students
appealed to me as much as anything Davidson had to offer. This seemed to be in the tradition that Davidson
is a ‘leader’ among institutions of higher education in what goes on in this country.

Our first visit to Freshmen Parent’s Day was a disappointment to me in this respect. I saw only two Black
freshmen students. Perhaps there were others. From my position of an outsider looking in, the fact that a BSC should
even have a reason to exist at Davidson is a bitter disappointment to me. Sure, I know that this is
evident around campuses all over the country. That almost everywhere, Blacks and whites are just about as segregated as if
integration was not the law of this country. But for such to exist at Davidson? It seems to me that
priorities have been overlooked. For instance, Black faculty members even before Black students were recruited. Studies in Black culture before
Black students came on campus with a dedicated emphasis that all students should know about the immense contribution and heritage
Blacks have contributed to our country and the world.

The suggestion of a car is rather small in a way, and I'm sure BSC does not mean they should
be singled out for sole use of such. Davidson has always had students who could not afford their own car.
In fact, the college's sincere concern with financial arrangements so students who wanted to come to Davidson and who were
qualified, surely has brought this “lack” up before. Perhaps there should be a pool of cars for students to use,
who do not bring cars to the campus? My son brought his car his freshman year and he does not
receive financial aid from Davidson or any of your grant-in-aid programs. What BSC is asking seems entirely reasonable, and I'm
sure their requests will spill over into making Davidson a better place for all students. Mostly, I'm hoping, it will
take the opportunity for Davidson to be a “leader” again. To show that Blacks and whites...can live together—not side-by-side separately—but
as one integrated group of human beings who have a common goal.

‘A Davidson Junior's Mother’

To the Editor:

Many students have expressed surprise that I have not taken off my black tie and peace symbol now that we
have “peace with honor" in Vietnam. May I use your letters column to explain?

When I began wearing the tie and peace symbol in 1965, I had two reasons in mind for doing so.
First was to protest against the war in Indochina, represented by the peace symbol. Second was to mourn for my
country because the actions of my government (‘Anything done officially in a democratic country is done in your name, because,
unless you protest, it is as if you were doing it in your own person.’ Victor Gollancz) in Indochina had
violated, even subverted, the humane and just principles which the best in U.S. society had always represented, the black tie
signifying the mourning. I first tried using a black armband, but the peace symbol did not work well with the
armband.

To have engaged in such an enormous and thorough subversion of all that is decent and fine in U.S. life
and history would seem to require some sort of penance; therefore when peace has really come to Indochina and the
U.S. has spent one-half as much money in rebuilding the country as has been spent in destroying it, I shall
take off my black tie and peace symbol and don the brightest red, white, and blue tie I can find.

E. F. Patterson
Davidson College

The Davidsonian - February 2, 1973 Page Five

However, upon occasion a few squirrels, who made extended journeys, retrieved their nuts all the way from the small county
of Lab. Thus, as they had done so many times before, they gathered together and began to gather their nuts.
They were most interesting to observe in their work. Some would work very hard at the beginning and then slow
down considerably as time elapsed. Others worked at a moderate yet constant rate, while still others worked extremely hard the
entire time. Though varying in technique, each gathered his nuts for that day and then returned to his (or her)
area of the woods situated between a cornfield and a moor area. Everyone was content and satisfied.

The next day the squirrels gathered once again. This continued for ten weeks straight. At this time the squirrels were
happily tired and ready for a break in the routine. But Van gave word that he had decided that it
was in SAGA's best interest to continue their collecting of the precious nuts. They, being very well-disciplined squirrels, followed this
dictum. However, they tired rapidly and eventually those nuts didn't look so precious or worthwhile. A few decided to just
starve while others, even some of the most industrious, cut back. Chatter was heard throughout the SAGA ranks. Van ignored
this. Suddenly, the once renowned bright furs began to dull, and occasionally one of the squirrels would lose a good
many hairs from his once fine coat. (I think humans refer to it as coming unglued.) This continued year after
year and the results—well, I need not lecture to you on those. Devastating, to say the least.

Thus, my fellow squirrels and honorable squirrels—Think upon this story. Let it be a lesson never to be forgotten—much less
repeated!

LETTERS

Matters For Wiser Minds

To the Editor:

I hate to sound so pessimistic, but we must be realistic, you know. What makes you think you have any
say in next year’s calendar? Now if you got a faculty member or two, there might be hope. To be
sure, the voice of a faculty member, PhD or not, is worth at least that of a hundred students. Or
how about an obscure trustee from before the Great War, now there's real power. But without them, why waste your
time? Mathematically it takes only twelve faculty members to overrule the whole student body. Besides, what makes you so arrogant
that you have a right to help decide the school calendar? I mean, the fact that you are paying a
good healthy sum for this education, the fact that you are the center around which the educational system should be
oriented, the fact that you might be adversely affected by the proposed calendar, are surely not justification enough for your
outrage. And what if it were? What difference does it make what you think? Come on now, let's leave such
weighty matters, that matter so much to us, for wiser minds. They are only looking out for our best interests.
I am appalled that you, naive student, would be so arrogant as to assume that your feelings are more important
than the wisdom of these scholars.

Kenny Elfer ’75
Davidson College
