Page Six May 11, 1973 The Davidsonian

GRAY WILSON

Nothing Happens When Wall-Eyes Hit

I don’t know how it happened. Had it not been Saturday and sterile, without a woman in sight and water falling out of the sky like Noah just checked into the Helper Hotel, and had it not been the six o'clock of great hunger that calls for coronary pizza, we might have been elsewhere than grinning towards Statesville with Son of Super Bee jamming the gears.

We ate, and there was less room in the green bomb on the return trip, but we decided to pay our driver What-A a tip so we all light up these cigars that make Cuba look small, and by the time laughing Lazarus tears the white case off his Antony & Cleopatra, our driver starts climbing out the window, preferring Noah to us. And by the time we reach the local watering hole, What-A is smoking down 115 so hot that we go inside to put out the fire.

Inside there ain't a whole lot, except beer. Then we see Crazy Jack, who comes walking up to the counter so drunk that his feet get there 10 seconds before the rest of him, with that stare that either means he’s gonna pass or punch one of us out; but it’s pretty obvious by the time he gets to us that the only thing he does in fast motion is drink. His body has that typical smoke-riddled tubercular bearing, with a washed-out wafer of a head receding into blond hair flanked by fenders slick with saddle soap. But his arms are huge. All rednecks have huge veined arms with tattoos crawling up and down.

He does not make introductions, but will say, “Hey, I seen you somewhere before.” This is impressive until he also says it to your buddy Don standing next to you. Come to think of it, we wouldn't even know his name had not a short fat friend of his shaped like an olive from the sticks goaded him with, “Hey, Jack, tell ‘em the one about the queer who got hisself electrocuted.” But Jack cannot remember the punch line, so we figure him for a few easy laughs.

But it was not easy, and before the four of us could finish our stags he goes after Lazarus. “So you believe in yourself?” he drawls.

“Huh? Sure I do.”

“You think you can do anything you want to?” he continues, stepping on his words.

“Well, no.”

“Then you don't believe in yourself,” he roars like he just let one out of the feedbag. So we ask him straight where he's from and he says Gatlinburg like there was something Stygian deep down inside his throat. Then he turns on me.

“Stygian,” I say. “You married, Boy?”

“No. Why? You ever been married?”

“I been married 10 times, I've not been married once.”

“So what does that mean?” I ask.

“Son, it means if you ever go on a honeymoon—”

“Yeah?”

“Go alone.” He chuckles and his sawed-off second giggles like he has heard it before.

“So how come you're so down on marriage?” we all ask.

“Well, I'll tell you,” he says, leaning toward us like the place was bugged. “Why own a cow when you can get the milk for free?”

“What does that mean?”

“But you know,” he says, and grins. But we don’t. Instead, we start asking this cornfed Socrates the meaning of life and for a few seconds he almost sounds crudely coherent.

“Shoot squirrel...catch catfish...have me a nice home that stays green all year long.”

“And how did you arrive at that conclusion?”

“Oh, well,” he begins, ending the coherence, “It come to me one night out on the bank when the wall-eyes hit me,” very matter-of-factly.

“And what are wall-eyes?” We couldn't even be sure what he was saying. Well lights? Water lights? Wild eyes?

“But you know,” he says, reaching through his shirt pocket for cigarettes that are lying on the counter already. Getting nowhere, we try another tack. “Well, what happens when the wall-eyes hit you?”

He just grins, looks at us like Lake Norman is somewhere in between. “When the wall-eyes hit you...nothing.”

This is too much, so we decide to exit despite his offer to find us a good woman which he proceeds to do to the point of tossing his cigarette under the seat of a would-be lady in a nearby booth. “Just let her heat up awhile,” he says slyly, but we are gone, leaving him with Mer Larry behind the bar worrying if the ABC man is going to pop in just then.

We truck 40 days and 40 nights back toward Davidson down the dirt road behind the baseball diamond, throwing some mud onto the graveyard as we make the turn to pay our respects to the dear departed and to the local long arms wishing something criminal might alleviate their boredom. And by the time we are safely back on campus we still...don’t know it will take a week to find that wall-eyes are a kind of pikefish believed by the local flora and fauna to be as good for your virility as fresh celery. But sometimes when I think back how it quit raining all of a sudden that evening, leaving the earth swollen with Spring, I wonder if Crazy Jack in all his garbled humor might not have more business chasing catfish than us mutilating ideas best left to the flood until we can start fishing for things not.

Chambers ‘Freeway’ To Aid Jerseyans’ Cultural Adaptation

AN OPINION By ROBERT TOUCHTON Associate Editor

(Ed. Note: The following is a light-hearted examination of the reasons for the recent construction of a paved sidewalk beside Chambers Building. NuSX really does exist, and has been chartered by the Senate. All the facts and quotes in the following are accurate.)

Within the past month, the sidewalk between Chambers Building and the Grey Library has been widened and blacktopped, making a roadway sufficiently wide to allow trucks and other large vehicles to unload at the back of Chambers. The construction of this “freeway” through the campus was one of the demands embodied in the charter of the newly established New Jersey Student Association, which has adopted the abbreviation NuSX. Thus far, the administration has refused to give credit to NuSX for their part in pushing the new “freeway” through. Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze, claiming he knew nothing of the NuSX, said that their demands did not affect the decision to build the “freeway” but rather that the road was needed for deliveries to Chambers. Meetze, in an action sure to anger the Jerseyans, said the sidewalk widening was only temporary and that asphalt was used because it could be easily torn up and because “grass just seems to sprout up where there’s asphalt.” Meetze said the decision to widen the sidewalk was taken reluctantly, but that it seemed preferable to allowing deliveries through the front door of the building, a policy that resulted in parking abuse by students and administrators and oil slicks on the brick sidewalks there.

NuSX was formed to help New Jersey students adapt to the “cultural shock” of coming to school in what they call “the redneck South,” according to Rob Strand, a spokesman for the Association. Grand Archons of NuSX are Rick Levi and Sanford Steelman. The group was formed originally among several upperclassmen on the fourth floor of Belk Hall who realized their common bond of being brothers from the Garden State. Among the other demands of NuSX are construction of a Mooresville Narrows Bridge, pollution of Lake Norman, and a decrease in the number of parking spaces on campus. Other demands of the group, which is chartered by the SGA, include construction of more factories in the area and (hopefully) the resultant pollution of the air, a campus lottery, and the erection of toll booths along the Davidson Freeway. In responding to the action building the Davidson Freeway, Strand said the Jerseyans were “very appreciative that this was done, but we insist that more be done.”

found these days in books.

outside perspective By LEX VEAZEY

MSU To Forgive Some F's

In a recent meeting of the Academic Council of Mississippi State University, a new “forgiveness of F's policy” was approved. Under the old policy, a student deficient in quality points at the time of his junior year could have up to a deficiency of 18 quality points removed from his academic record. However, this “forgiving” of the 18 quality points only applied to courses the student failed as a freshman. Under the new policy, a “U” instead of an “F” will be recorded on a student's record on any course failed up to and including the course in which his 12th hour of “U” grades is accumulated. For example, if a student fails 11 hours of course work and then takes a five-hour advanced course and fails it, he can be forgiven a maximum of 16 hours. In addition, these “U” grades will not be counted toward a student's quality point average.

Rising Costs Spark Student Concern

Rate increases in dining, housing, and health services totaling about $250 will be charged to students at Wesleyan University next year. Another increase of at least $300 is expected by '74-'75. The increases were approved at the Trustees’ meeting March 17. About 60 students assembled last week to discuss the problems raised by this administrative move. Strong expressions of dissatisfaction with the cost hikes were voiced by the students. Students were upset not only with the increases but also with the way in which the hikes were allegedly “sprung on students.” Student Senator Joe Raskin contended that there is an issue of fairness involved. “How can the administration first bump the students by expanding to 2200, supposedly thereby meeting the financial crisis, and then increase the rate each individual student must pay?” he asked.