Friday, March 30
Stowe Galleries
Love and Hodson
Martin Room
Hodson Hall
Morrison Room
Chambers Banquet Hall

All day: Art Exhibit: The Second Davidson National
All day: Symposium on National Health Insurance
11 a.m.: Planters National Bank and Trust Company
10 a.m.: Health Care Panel Discussion
2 p.m.: "What Price Health?"

Saturday, March 31
8 p.m.: Portable Circus
8:15 p.m.: French Play

Monday, April 2
Tuesday, April 3
All day: Nader Interviews
10 a.m. - 2 p.m.: Nader Interviews
7:30 p.m.: Film: “Hunger”
9 p.m.: Discussion of Hunger

Wednesday, April 4
Duck

Thursday, April 5
All day: "Le Bal des Voleurs"
All week: Strindberg Exhibit
All week: Art Exhibit: The Second Davidson National
10 a.m.: Davidson Photo Club
1:30 p.m.: Winaukee Camp Boy Scouts of America
Any Questions? Dr. Spencer
Scandinavian Symposium
Hodson Hall
Chambers Foyer
Stowe Galleries
Cunningham Room
Cunningham Room
Martin Room
Ovens Room
Cunningham Room
Love Auditorium
E.L. Baxter Davidson Room

All day: Scandinavian Symposium
Hodson Hall
3 p.m.: Lecture and Discussion on "The Wild Duck"
Perkins Auditorium
8 p.m.: Fine Film: “Shame”
Love Auditorium
9:30 p.m.: Discussion of “The Wild Duck”
E.L. Baxter Davidson Room

Friday, April 6 (Continued From Page 1)
With a bank on the football field, followed by a concert with the band Focus, a new band from Holland and “probably the hottest band we've got this year.” There will also be some fraternity parties that weekend. Spring Frolics proper will begin April 27 with supper at the lake campus at about five, a concert, and after that “the fraternities will take over.” Front campus Saturday afternoon will be the site of the Davidson College “county fair” with a midway, rides, and contests. A keg of beer will go to the fraternity, freshman hall, or organization that enters the best booth. Starting at four will be the “swing-your-partner, dos-a-do, and birdies in the cage” of a square dance. The next concert will be at 8 p.m. starring Freddy King, an outstanding blues guitarist. After the concert, other get-togethers will happen at a combination of other spots.

All day: Scandinavian Symposium
Hodson Hall
8 p.m.: Popular Film: “Finian’s Rainbow”
Love Auditorium
8 p.m.: Hungry d: Rathskeller
Spriggs and Bringle
10 p.m.: Hungry d: Rathskeller
Spriggs and Bringle

Popular Film Repeat
Love Auditorium

At midnight both Friday and Saturday, there will be a showing of the movie “Woodstock” on the back of Phi Hall. “In order to be fair to people involved in other affairs that weekend,” said Earle, “we're going to spread those Saturday afternoon activities back to the other weekend. We'll have things you can do for a while and walk away from and come back to. This will give it a much nicer, springier, carnival atmosphere.”

Writes: Patterson Court Attracts 233 Freshmen Through Self-Selection
By MICHAEL TANNER
Managing Editor

On Thursday night of last week, self-selection for the Houses on Patterson Court was held in Chambers. The 233 freshmen made their choices. The freshmen who will eat at SAB next year will be: John Cardwell, Don Munford, Tim Rose, Jim Wann, Smith Foushee, Leslie Taylor, Randy Hunter, Jon Martin, Hawes Foster, Ben Hedrick, Willard Ross, John Kennelly, Logan Jones, Hearn Miller, Ben Watkins, Eppa Rives, Hal Peacock, Steve Vitek, Dan Beall, Race Campbell, Bill Lloyd, John Yeoman, Jon Perry, and Tous Boon. Those who chose Banyan Mabel are:Purser Shelton Bills, Bob Sanders, Jim Greer, Alex Robinson, Robert Stowe, David Kitchin, Tom Gopsill, Scott Tinne, Buzz Walling, Paul Japp, Frank Hancock, and Phil Gillen. Squires Pete Grood, Matt Bob, Skoges Pad, Barnes Hot, Etratiens Vicgestait, Wet aes, Charles Dorsey, and Jon West. Blanon and the Second Forest presmmen turnout were Tom Hagood, Charles McKinley, Jamie Koloditen, Bill Bond, Jim Davis, Batt Karby, Joe Ronrer, Dave Wiles, Alan Malcolm, Rusty Dean, Gary Stewart, Dan Douglas, John Pavior, Ernest Glenn, John Green, Gordon Bill, Kenr, David Jack Doscher, Robert Hoag, and Charlie Shepherd. Also choosing Emanon were: Crawford Crenshaw, Grant David Green, Jesse Smith, Carl Schwartz, Bob Doares, Joel Tew, Tom McPherson, Martin Rakes, Gordon Widenhouse, Bob Mooty, Bob Rovegno, Robert Harshmen, John Adams, Barney Metcalfe, Chit Gardiner, Michael Sauer, Rory Crawford, and Ralph Taylor.

Phi Delta Theta received eighteen freshmen. They were: Wendell Patterson, Stephen Flowers, Rusty Lindsey, Pete West, Bob McDaniel, Tony Thomason, Scott Logan, Joel Pressley, Mike Eubanks, Mike Hall, Mitten Reaves, Jose Rodriguez, Bill Winkenwerder, Mike Pappas, Larry Hardaway, and Bill Reed. Those who selected ATO were: Jim Sitterson, Bill Chappell, Steve Muse, Shaun Robertson, Rich McClung, Scott Read, Mark Deaton, David Dickey, Norman Atkins, Brant Balls, Rand Sommer, Paul Welch, Robert McKempnt, Robert Hagan, Gary Aston, Jerry Horne, Jeff Castelli, John Alexander, Freddy Kinsey, John Munce, John Stanfield, Rich Price, Mark Felker, Robert Knechtle, Steve Bell, and Frank Stictel.

Phi received eleven freshmen. They were: Bill Crostand, Fred Boren, Ed Bowen, Tom Foster, Charlie Neal, Dean Copple, Joe Thompson, Tom Krauss, David Francis, Chuck Sudetie, and Gene Blood. The 14 who selected Radom House were: Rick Ollutl, Steve Stec, David Moore, Richie Williams, David Bowman, Danny Felts, Bill Manson, Forrest Flamken, Ed Yeaton, Larry Hill, Bruce Corser, Jam Spears, Bill Strain, and Jeff Plowman. Twenty-seven freshmen chose KA. They were: Steve Scroggs, Zack Varnedoe, Danny Smith, Ladies Wilson, Peter Clark, Bob Penny, Jim Varn, Dai Ferbert, Thomas Ober, Rover Warities, Dana Tattle, Jerry Suto, Paul Wilhovnane, John Dunn, Steve Collins, Robert Putnam, Bruce Tne.

The house that had the largest freshmen turnout was Pika, which was chosen by 106 members of the class of 1976. They were: Glen Mayfield, Peter Hotchkiss, Bill Cole, Dave Cormak, David Cellon, Scott Lane, Brad Swalwell, David Mayberry, Chuck Weber, Tony Murray, Ross Wright, Jack Barbour, Jim Baker, Horace Drew, Garry Lane, John Mitchell, Pat Barringer, Costy Swanson, and Vibe Proctor. Pika was also chosen by: Jim Sneed, Rick Rovianee, Mike Gibson, Addison Masengill, Emerson Morrison, Dick Stewart, Jeff Norkirk, Rick McKenzie, Jim Gam, Steve Tatum, David Rowe, Jack Roa, Bill Vaughn, Bob Mendennall, Jerry Teslop, Doug Traver, Bruce West, Doug Ka, David Kirkoran, Bath Peacock, and Vian Dread. Gus Strasburger, Siti Coferiad, Gary Whitemisad, Pons Covert, Neal Lacamens, Kevin Worst, Ket Cova, Jim Stephenson, Doug Veurk, Barth Batotos, and Patan Geaatarie also chose Pika. (Staff photo by Goodman)

SPRING IS HERE
This freshman has found a way to enjoy it.

COLLEGIATE NOTES
Understand all subjects, plays, and novels faster!
—Thousands of topics available within 24 hours of mailing.
—Complete with bibliography and footnotes.
—Lowest Prices are GUARANTEED.
SEND $1.90 for our latest descriptive Mail-Order Catalogue with Postage-Paid Order Forms to:
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH GUIDE
IN. 13th St. Bldg. Rm 706
Phila., Pa. 19107
HOT-LINE (215) 563-3758

merycarter ROL-HIDE
NO DRIP LATEX WALL PAINT
Our Very Best!

include Greenville, N.C.

FRESHMEN — Spend your sophomore year abroad! The Asian Studies Program in Japan and the European Studies Program in Germany combine classroom study, carefully planned field trips, extended travel, and close cultural contacts with residents of the host country. Courses include foreign language, history, geography, political science, economics, music history and literature, philosophy, art history, sociology, and others. For further information write or call Dr. Kermit C. King, Office of International Education, ECU, P. O. Box 2782, Greenville, N.C. 27834, Phone (919) 758-6607.