(Staff photo by Goodman)

COLLARED
A South Carolina player attempts to stop a Davidson rush in vain.

The ruggers put together their best performance of the year in a 46-0 romp last Sunday.

... Harper Sets

(Continued from page 12)

“We were determined to control the game with short passes Saturday because we just don't have the size to gain
three and four yards every time we run the ball,” Fagg said.

Fagg went on to explain that, “We feel that we can stay in the game or control it if we
can run 90-95 plays a game.”

Fagg's strategy paid off as the Cats ran 92 plays and averaged 10.4 yards per catch.

Davidson also had its best day of the year rushing. Halfback Dave Ingold paced the Cat runners with 88 yards
in 14 carries. Overall, the team picked up 158 on the ground, far and away the best performance of the
season.

Gary Pomeroy and Walt Walker led the receivers with 13 and 11 catches, respectively. Tight end Mike Harding had his
best receiving game of the year as he caught seven passes for 77 yards and one touchdown.

“Gary, Walt, and Mike all had great games,” Fagg stated. “They really ran well after catching the ball and carried
the fight to William and Mary.”

Other offensive performances cited by Fagg were those of co-captain Jimmy Hankinson, tackle Bill Smith, and Dave Ingold.

“Hankinson had his best game ever and Bill Smith showed that he has to be considered an All-Conference selection,” Fagg
said.

“Dave Ingold had 308 yards in the all-purpose running of the year,” he continued.

Ingold had 93 yards rushing, 18 yards receiving, and 197 yards in kickoff and punt returns on Saturday.

The Cats' biggest problem was their failure to stop William and Mary's running attack. The Indians averaged just over six
yards a carry as they piled up 419 yards in 68 attempts.

The defense was led by Richie Williamson and George Weicker with 10 unassisted tackles apiece.

He was also pleased with sophomore Roger Whitley's performance at linebacker.

“Roger won every confrontation directed at him as far as hitting was concerned,” Fagg stated. “He's really shown a lot
of improvement this year.

“It's just a real tragedy that those guys didn’t win after the way they played Saturday.

“Sometimes you can play just terribly and still win and have a good feeling and then you have a game
like those guys had Saturday and you lose.”

Homeworkers. Earn $60 weekly addressing envelopes.

Rush 25¢ Gemoc...
POB 21244 X, Indianapolis, Ind. 46221

Hours 9-7 — Wed 9-12 - Sun 9:30-10:30
Phone 892-0208

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Davidson, N.C.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

HATTIES

HAPPY HOUR — 7-9 Tues. - Fri.
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7-9:30
131 N Main St

HAP OR TED BEE b
Now Serving The “Hattie” Cheeseburger

The Davidsonian
October 26, 1973
Fifteen

Ruggers Trounce USC 41-0
After Mastering Teamwork

By ANN BODE
Staff Writer

Davidson's Rugby Club finally mastered teamwork in the game on Sunday when they completely outclassed the University of South Carolina
at Allendale.

Through well-executed runs and kicks, Wildcat Ruggers trounced the USC-A team 41-0.

Scoring was well divided among the backs and the scrum with seven different players claiming tries. Dave Kitrell was high
scorer with one field goal and 10 extra points.

Backs who carried the ball into touch were wings Duncan Moore and John McCartney, and scrum half Jim Lehnberg. The
scrum continued its usual offensive push and drove four times into the end zone.

Forwards involved in scoring tries were right second row Paul Scott, lock Ted Ellet, prop Steve Phillips, and Richard Smith.

Richard Hendrix, playing out center, put in an admirable performance for the Davidson club. Suffering injuries during the first minutes
of the game, “Dix” came back to make repeated runs giving Davidson advantageous field position.

As is evidenced by the number of different players scoring tries, the secret of the Wildcat victory was in precision
teamwork.

The backs took good advantage of the tremendous push by the forwards in set scrums and loose rucks.

The scrum itself followed the ball with unusual hustle and was able to stay together in a pack. With this
effort, Wildcat momentum rose, and USC-A was unable to effectively oppose Davidson either offensively or defensively.

Davidson travels to Roanoke next Sunday for a game scheduled at 1 p.m.

Sherrill’s
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

Jewelry

and you can’t beat ‘em for comfort, value, and styling. Come shop our fine selections of woven polyesters, double-knits, and
worsted blends in solids and exciting patterns.

15.00 to 25.00

Store Hours 9 til 5:30
Monday thru Saturday
and til 8:30 Fridays

John Mack & Son
MOORESVILLE
Our 61st Year

Country Chalet
(formerly Deals Grill)

PIZZA PERFECTO

MANY OTHER NEW ITEMS
