The ——— Page Eight April 27, 1973 ——— Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, April 27
————
all day Art Exhibit: The Second Stowe Galleries Davidson National
all day Creative Photos: Extended Chambers Foyer Studies In Photography
all day Peace Corps and VISTA Martin Room
11 a.m. Spring Convocation Love Auditorium Address: Jim Martin
12:30 p.m. Convocation Luncheon Chambers Banquet Hall

Monday, April 30
10 a.m. D.C. Photo Club Cunningham Room
10 & 3 p.m. Owusu Sadaukai Morrison Room
7 p.m. Grievance Committee Cunningham Room
7 p.m. Community Folk Service Martin Room
7:30 p.m. Town Meeting YMCA Depot
8:30 p.m. American Guild of College Church Organists Student Recital - John Deaver

Tuesday, May 1
10 a.m. Any Questions? Ovens Room
10 a.m. Traffic Court 132 Chambers
7:30 p.m. Drama Workshop: 2 One Act Plays By D.C. Students Hodson Hall
8 p.m. Fine Film: “The Conformist” Love Auditorium

Wednesday, May 2
8 p.m. Phi Society: B. Everett Jordan
8 p.m. Flying Club

Thursday, May 3
12:30 p.m. Symposium on Christian Education Chambers Banquet Hall
7 p.m. Catholic Mass Phi Hall
9:30 p.m. Film: “Nine Hours to Rama” Love Auditorium

Friday, May 4
10 a.m. Address: Mr. McMasters-Perkins Auditorium Member of Parliament of Northern Ireland
12 noon Symposium on Christian Education Chambers Banquet Hall
2 & 4 p.m. Film: “Terror In Northern Ireland” Morrison Room
8 p.m. Open End On Northern Ireland Rathskeller
8 & 10 p.m. Film: “Fools” Love Auditorium

Saturday, May 5
6 p.m. Film: “Fools” Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Concert: Marlena Shaw Morrison Room
10 p.m. Dance: 100% Pure Poison Chambers Banquet Hall
10:30 p.m. Film Repeat Love Auditorium

Sunday, May 6
7 p.m. Grievance Committee Cunningham Room

Community Spirit (Continued From Page 5)

One student put it this way: “Perhaps I have read a poem or a short story, an essay by Kierkegaard, a chapter from Nietzsche's ‘Zarathustra.’ Something in my mind has been stimulated by the reading, but I am confused, baffled by the complexity of the thought. I find another who feels as I do, and together we find a third. We want to talk now. We open a beer or two, and as the beer loosens our tongues, we begin to pour out our thoughts, share our insights, argue our differences. I contribute my insights and receive those of my friends. Together our reading of these works is infinitely richer than my solitary reading would have been. I read a play but I cannot seem to grasp the essential nature of the characters: I need to hear the different voices. I find some friends, and together we sit down and read it aloud. We play different roles. We finish the play, and then begin to talk about it. Soon the play takes on new life for us. At the same time our friendship grows, and our own personal relationships take on new dimensions. Having talked about religion and philosophy and literature, we have revealed something of ourselves to one another and found depths in one another that we did not know existed.”

The kind of scene this student describes is too rare on college campuses. Students will not begin to enjoy college genuinely until this kind of experience becomes the rule rather than the exception. Life closes in rapidly upon the young man or woman. Marriage, the raising of children, the pressure of jobs, obligations to the community — all of these things come to dominate one’s time in the years after college. The college years are unique in that they offer a young man four unencumbered years for personal growth and reflection; they should not be unhappy years. The college experience can be an immensely rich and rewarding one if students and teachers together approach it with...The idea that learning is a communal experience, that growth comes only as one gives as well as receives, and that the worst kind of imprisonment is not physical incarceration but solitary confinement within the prison walls of the self.

College, Church Join Forces

New Minister Will Serve Both

Davidson College and the Davidson College Presbyterian Church will begin a partnership in campus ministry in June with the employment of an assistant minister for the church who will also serve as minister to students on campus. He is Rush W. Otey III, 26, now completing studies for the new doctor of ministry degree at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

In a joint statement, the Rev. John B. Rogers, pastor of the church, and College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. explained that in past years the college has employed chaplains to minister to students and to advise the student YMCA. “Previous arrangements have had a major shortcoming in that the chaplain had no base of operations,” Rogers and Spencer said. “He did not belong either to the college faculty or to the Davidson church.

“This new experiment in campus ministry will secure for the campus minister an identity with the visible church. Most importantly it will provide the opportunity for an entire congregation, not just one man, to minister to the students on campus,” the statement said.

Rogers and Spencer noted that the college's Statement of Purpose says in part, “Since its founding (in 1837) the ties which bind the College to the Presbyterian Church have remained close and strong.... The primary loyalty of the college extends beyond the bounds of denomination to the Christian community as a whole, through which medium it would seek to serve the world.”

Otey said he is “looking forward to working with students of all faiths in existing programs and in developing new ones.”

The new minister is a 1969 cum laude graduate of Presbyterian College in Clinton, S.C., where he was editor of the weekly student newspaper, The Blue Stocking, and a member of the Honor Council and Student Council. He spent the 1971-72 year as a ministerial intern in Edinburgh, Scotland. He has also had field experience in Virginia prisons, a Richmond hospital, and several Virginia churches. His salary will be paid by the college and the church will provide office space.

...Gratitude (Continued From Page 5)

Again on the campus and speak of the remnants they see of the college they knew for four years. But it is the alumni themselves, the people, who provide this school with a heritage greater than any buildings we raise or any awards we give. So while we hand out honors to such worthy men as Dr. Robert Davidson and Dr. Lily, it might not be a bad idea to think of one man who worked here ten productive years and to whom not one bit of gratitude has ever been shown.

King’s Sirloin Mooresville
8 Oz. — $2.25
12 Oz. — $3.25
USDA Choice Sirloin
663-2832
Intersection of 21 at 115

LUNCH
Tuesday - Friday
Sunday Buffet 11-2
DINNER
Friday - Saturday

tastee-freez of Cornelius
892-8468
10-9 P.M.
BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET
“It’s Incomparable”
Sandwiches — Pizza
Sundaes
50 FLAVOR SHAKES
Sunday - Thursday 5-9

Non-Profit Organization

He insists “Man is not content to take nature as he finds her. Not us. We make a natural beer. A beer without any additives or chemical preservatives. For a natural Rheingold taste you just can’t find in other beers.”

Rheingold Breweries, Inc.
New York, NY & Orange, NJ