(Staff photo by Goodman) NET GAIN John Falconi drives by Phil Brown to score 2 of his 21 pts. in
Davidson's 103-84 victory over Brown.

The Davidsonian
December 7, 1973

Falconi Sparks Cats, Hopes For Best Year
By MARK CONNORS
Asst. Sports Ed.

A two-time first team All-Southern Conference selection, John Falconi has “consistently worked to be better” and hopes to help Davidson
to its best season ever. A first team all-city selection his senior year in high school, Falconi was offered scholarships
at several schools including Duke, Clemson, Wake Forest, Holy Cross, and Boston College. Recruited late in his senior year by
Neil McGeachy (presently head coach at Duke), Falconi was very impressed with the Davidson campus and matriculated in the fall
of 1970.

According to head coach Terry Holland, “John had a very good freshman year. He...

Gerdy Puts Skills To Work In Philippine Cage Clinic
(Ed. Note: Former Davidson student and basketball player Greg Gerdy is presently working with the Peace Corps in the Philippines.
He still finds time for basketball, however, and recently filed the following report of his hardwood experiences in the exotic
lands.)

The best thrill for me so far in the Philippines has been my role in a recently concluded sports clinic
for out-of-school youths and club members. I was the basketball skills instructor, and whether my past efforts at the game
come anywhere close to being called a skill, I don’t know. But somewhere along the line I have picked up
a few ideas which could help these fledgling stars.

Before the clinic began I sat down at my desk and prepared an elaborate schedule drawing ideas from all the
basketball sources I’ve been exposed to. Included were all the Pete Maravich drills which I’ve never been able to perfect,
the power drive move adopted by the Davidson coaches last year which no one ever used, and even time for
a defensive game which would have had Bo Brickles teasing Terry Holland for weeks.

My preparation didn’t end there. I drew poster-size diagrams of defensive and offensive strategies plus lists of drills for self-improvement.
The office of the Manila YMCA Community Service staff was beginning to look like a coach’s office.

The big first day finally arrived. I bounced up the stairs to the gym feeling confident that I would now
distribute my vast storehouse of basketball knowledge to the 50 or so participants and thereby change the course of basketball
in the Philippines. This was, at that moment, a not-too-unreasonable goal...

Filipinos are usually excellent shooters, but come up lacking in defensive prowess. They are usually quick and run a nice
fast break, but come up lacking in defensive prowess. Thus I was prepared to run them through a series of
defensive drills which would inspire them to gems which would make Walt Frazier proud.

As has now become the expected here in the Philippines, I ran into the unexpected. I walked into the gym
and gazed at a veritable madhouse. The youths were playing half-court games, volleyball, and badminton, and for the most part,
giving their efforts to the game with no rules, hor...

Immediately sensing a pivotal point in my debut as a coach, I decided that my schedule was going to have
to be abandoned. I chose the two tallest players to pick teams and let them play. I slipped off into
a corner to figure out which approach was going to be the best. The choice was relatively easy as I
noticed that we'd have to review fundamentals and put them to use immediately.

After 10 minutes of observation, I called the group together and ran them through passing, shooting, and ball-handling drills, and
mixed them up...With a number of contests to keep their enthusiasm up. After an hour, it became apparent that they
were tiring, so I let them scrimmage until they had used up their last ounces of energy. This emergency schedule
proved to be a success the next four days of the clinic. It was a minor victory considering the difficulties
inherent in such a program. The youths were out-of-school boys and girls, with little experience using English. I had been
studying my Tagalog diligently and was able to handle most situations, but occasionally, I had to consult my co-worker to
translate the difficult phrases. It speaks well for basketball that it is a game without a significant language barrier. Other
difficulties included the normal restlessness of the youths and their consistency in missing layups and failing to pass the ball.
But this is no different than elsewhere. It was a learning experience for me. I found that enthusiasm is the
vital factor in teaching the youths regardless of the cross-cultural differences. What helped me was my own enthusiasm. The lectures
became more animated than I had anticipated while the low points became springboards to new ways of sparking their enthusiasm.

My vote for the top coach will go to one of the two girls who participated in the clinic. She
coached one of the boys' teams to a 30-point victory margin on the final day of the clinic.

NML’s performance says it all

The Chart Company
Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036

College Agents
Brad Tipler
Dick Richardson
Rollie White
Bill Smith
Mike Pappas

"John was a very good shooter and moved well without the ball," according to Holland. "John had to learn to
handle the ball better and take the ball to the basket." However, he emphasized the consistent hard work of Falconi
and by concentrating on his weak points, Falconi has improved greatly over the past two years. "John still needs to
move without the ball better but overall, John has consistently worked to be better and should have a very good
year."

A very unique quality of Falconi’s is his concept of team play. Always concerned about playing as a team, Falconi
will not let an interview go by without making mention of the team effort, even if his performance was singled
out. This strong dedication to the team is accentuated in Falconi's predictions for the year. He said, "This is the
best team I’ve played on, it will just take some time to see. Tonight’s game against Brown will be a
good test to see where we stand."

A two-time first-team All-Southern Conference selection, Falconi hopes to repeat again this year. According to Holland, Falconi's individual recognition depends
a great deal on how well the team does this year. However, his chances of repeating All-Southern Conference are quite
good because of the past two years' recognition. As far as All-American is concerned, Falconi said that it really isn’t
that important. The play of John Falconi was summed up by Holland when he stated, "John was a good player
when he came to Davidson, has consistently worked hard, both during the season and after, has consistently become better, and
most important of all, has provided consistent leadership for the Wildcat Basketball squad."

Phone 892-0208

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7 - Wed. 9-12. — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Davidson, N.C.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies
131 N. Main St.

Give A Special Gift For Christmas
This Village Bath gift box includes 1 Bubbling Bath Oil, 3 Beauty Bath Packets, 1 Village Grocer's Pride fruit soap
$5.50
Available in four fragrances
Only one of many gifts from Bashfuls
Lid
115 North Main St.
Davidson, N.C.
