Up ‘n’ Coming

10 a.m. Mr. McMasters: Member of Parliament of N. Ireland Perkins Auditorium

2 & 4 p.m. Film: “Terror in Northern Ireland” Morrison Room
8 p.m. Film: “Fools” Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Open End on N. Ireland Rathskeller

Saturday, May 5
6 & 10:30 p.m. Film: “Fools” Morrison Room
8 p.m. Concert: Marlena Shaw Love Auditorium
10 p.m. Dance: 100% Pure Poison Chambers Banquet Hall

Sunday, May 6
7 p.m. Art Exhibit Opening: Showing of Experimental Films Stowe Galleries
7 p.m. Grievance Committee Cunningham Room

Monday, May 7
All week Art Exhibit: The Student Show Stowe Galleries
All week Creative Photos: Extended Studies in Photography Chambers Foyer
10 a.m. D.C. Photo Club Martin Room
7 p.m. Christian Folk Service Ovens Room

Tuesday, May 8
10 a.m. Any Questions? Dr. Spencer Cunningham Room
7:30 p.m. Student Opening Night: Third Major Drama Production - Three One Act Plays Hodson Hall
8 p.m. Mark Twain Rathskeller

Wednesday, May 9
2 & 4 p.m. Film: “The Householder” Morrison Room
8 p.m. D.C. Flying Club Chambers 211
8:15 p.m. Third Major Drama Production: Three One Act Plays Hodson Hall

Thursday, May 10
7 p.m. Catholic Mass Phi Hall
8 p.m. Faculty Research Group Eu Hall
8:15 p.m. Third Major Drama Production: Three One Act Plays Hodson Hall
9 p.m. Hungry d: Keen, Kimmel, and Company Rathskeller

Friday, May 11
8 p.m. Hungry d: Keen, Kimmel, and Company Rathskeller
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: “Midnight Cowboy” Love Auditorium
8:15 p.m. Third Major Drama Production: Three One Act Plays Hodson Hall

Saturday, May 12
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: “Midnight Cowboy” Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Hungry d: Keen, Kimmel, and Company Rathskeller

Nixon (Continued From Page 3)
people, as well as respect for the office of the Presidency both at home and abroad,” Kaneklides said.

Kaneklides, however, was convinced that Nixon was unaware of the events before and after the bugging incident, and that no
coverup was attempted.

ABORTION
“Without Ervin (head of the Congressional investigating committee), the Washington Post, and other sources of information, these events wouldn't have
been brought to the President's attention. I'm glad that the President finally opened his eyes to the real meaning of
the Watergate affair and is attempting to root out all of those in the Administration who are guilty,” he said.

Perhaps the best statement made was that of a student who considered Nixon “basically an honest man. I believe him,”
she said, “but then I believe a lot of things I shouldn't.”

Free Placement
NYC Free Preg Test
Medicaid Accepted
CALL 212-595-4220
Controlled Parenthood
Suite 55
200 W. 72nd St.
N.Y.C., N.Y.
Safe; Low-Cost; Confidential
Non-Profit Organization

Love Auditorium

Rathskeller

Furniture From ROLEASE

Hattie’s Grill
HAPPY HOUR
Tues.-Fri. 7-8
Mugs — 20¢ Pitchers of 58 oz. — 1.00
Large Selection of Imported Beers

PRICE INCLUDING TAX
ACCURATE DELIVERY FROM 5-6 PM

THE RISING PRICE OF GAS
(Staff Photo by Jernigan)

Davidson area gas stations are beginning to reflect the national gasoline shortage in the prices they are now charging for
gas. Many students openly wonder how much higher prices are going to go before they level off. Rumors of prices
going as high as a dollar a gallon have traveled around the campus.

Years Discussed

... Spencer (Continued From Page 7)
development staff which was non-existent in the days before President Spencer,” Cornell said.

In general, Bevan and Cornell feel that Spencer's administration came at a time when change had already begun and that
he has been successful in coping with the shifting trends in higher education which were waiting to be dealt with
by a man with the needed insight and ability.

“For the last few years, we've been in a period of rapid movement which has sought to open up new
channels and avenues to guide the course of the college in a direction that everyone will approve of and which
will guarantee satisfaction of the needs of the future,” Bevan said.

Bevan reflected that while Spencer had been the President, a field of forces has been at work to change the
college, this field consisting of the social circumstances, the economic situation, and the complexion of the faculty and the students.

“This is a college which is in transition but is trying its best to maintain a firm hold on its
tradition which is its strength and Dr. Spencer recognizes this,” Bevan said.

Sunday, May 13th

See our great selection of gifts and cards!

We're Happy to gift wrap free.
Wrap to mail for a small fee.

PANN
The Village Store
