Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Friday, April 13
Saturday, April 14

Up ‘n’ Coming
SPRING FROLICS
Joffrey II Dance Company
DAY OF CLASSES
Art Exhibit Stowe Galleries
The Second Davidson National
Creative Photos: Chambers Foyer
Extended Studies

10:40 a.m. Humanities Film: Perkins Auditorium “Potemkin”
8 p.m. Transcendental Meditation Martin Room
8:15 p.m. Artist Series: Love Auditorium
Hodson Hall
All day Children’s Drama Workshop
8:30 a.m. Law School Admissions Test Chambers Dining Hall
12 noon Beer Party Baseball Field
8:30 a.m. Concert: Focus Love Auditorium
10:30 p.m. Fred Deese Rathskeller

Sunday, April 15
All day Children’s Drama Workshop Hodson Hall
8 p.m. Meditators Meeting Martin Room

Monday, April 16
10 a.m. D.C. Photo Club Cunningham Room
10 a.m. Lecture: Dr. Ambrose Manning. “The Culture and Heritage of Southern Appalachians” Morrison Room
2 p.m. Lecture: Dr. Ambrose Manning Morrison Room
7 p.m. Grievance Committee Cunningham Room
8 p.m. Meditators Meeting Martin Room
9:45 p.m. Christian Fellowship Cunningham Room

Tuesday, April 17
All day Crafts Display Morrison Room
10 a.m. Any Questions? Ovens Room Dr. Spencer
2 p.m. Dr. Robert Wilson: Human Sexuality Perkins Auditorium
4 p.m. Mountain Music Union Lawn
7:30 p.m. Drama Workshop: Three One Act Plays by D.C. Students Hodson Hall

Wednesday, April 18
7:15 p.m. Phi Society Phi Hall
8 p.m. Philanthropic Speaker: Senator Sam Ervin Love Auditorium
8 p.m. D.C. Flying Club Ground School Chambers 211
2, 4, 8, 9 p.m. Film: “Gunga Din” Morrison Room
7 p.m. Catholic Mass Phi Hall
7 p.m. Humanities Film: “The War Game” Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Robert Lambert: Office of Disarmament Hodson Hall

Thursday, April 19
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: “Fellini Satyricon” Love Auditorium

Friday, April 20
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: “Fellini Satyricon” Love Auditorium

Honors College (Continued From Page 1)
“It is recommended,” continues the proposal, “that the Center for Honors Studies return to the normal grading procedures used by
Davidson College.” It is also suggested that the dean of the center “engage in immediate negotiation with the chairmen of
departments offering honors programs to develop some organic relationship between the Center and the departments.” The recommendations see the Center
for Honors Studies as “a service function for the entire college” whose resources should be used “to improve the entire
program.”

Alan Blakley, chairman of the Committee to Continue the Honors College, which initiated the student petition, was optimistic about the
faculty's decision. “I think they'll accept the vote and will work together during the trial period,” he said. “I'm not
sure what effect the petition had, but if it got one vote, it pushed us over.”

“I think the morale will improve these coming months,” he said. “The struggle to keep the Honors College has brought
its students together over common ground.”

The letter to the faculty protesting the petition was from Senior Douglas Sittler. Sittler considered the petition “invalid because it
did not fairly represent the two sides of the question.”and charged that the alternative to incorporate honors level studies into
the regular college curriculum was not mentioned.

... Freed Paints With Grant Continued From Page 1

"Then I decided it wasn't... Since the only building large enough for the painting will be the new library, if
it has enough space for it. I've given the Union a choice of this painting when it's finished or one
of the medium ones.

"I don't think of painting in terms of background and foreground. It’s all the surface of the canvas. I treat
it in the same manner. It doesn't get tedious working on 'background.'

"Well, I can remember working on some impressionistic landscapes when I first started to paint. Some of that, mountains and
things like that, got tedious.

"I did my first painting when I was 12, though I didn’t think of painting as a profession until I
was a freshman here. I started from there to whole figure studies in rooms and then I dropped the figures
and kept painting rooms. Sometimes I'd add still life, like a vase or something."

Ken gets up and walks across the studio. Retreating to a corner, he begins to unearth canvases with "freed 71"
or "freed 72" painted on the back. This activity is interrupted by the arrival of the long-awaited canvas for his
triptych. His paintings are mostly acrylic, although one that he shows is oil. The majority of his paintings have an
incredible amount of lumps whose texture no amount of paint gobs could account for.

"I have a tactile quality in my painting that is very important to me," Ken explains. "That," indicating the gobs,
"is a mixture of sawdust and sand with the paint. I haven't found a need to mix anything else with
the acrylic.

"Of course, some paintings are pretty layered," turning and producing a dynamic painting of pinks ranging from purplish to orange.
"This one has about 21 layers, and somewhere under that I think might be a painting I did my freshman
year.

"I have maybe two of my freshman paintings. The rest were sold at art shows." He smiles. "I was a
psychology major my freshman year, but it didn't take long to kill that... Of course, I'd been painting much longer
than I'd been interested in psychology.

"I have a brother who's coming here next year as a freshman, and he's a psychology major." Ken carefully stows
away the canvases.

(Staff photo by Coggin)

AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE

Last Tuesday, Gray Robinson received the John M. Belk Award for Excellence in Academics from the Philanthropic Society. Bill Alexander,
president of the Philanthropic Society, presented the award. Sigma Phi Epsilon also received the Athletic Award. In the background, Mark
Deininger watches the ceremony.

of Cornelius 892-8468 10 - 9 P.M.

BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET "It’s Incomparable" Sandwiches — Pizza Sundaes 50 FLAVOR SHAKES

"Man is not content to take nature as he finds her. He insists on making her over." — F.J.E.

Not us. We make a natural beer. A beer without any additives or chemical preservatives. For a natural Rheingold taste
you just can't find in other beers. Natural Rheingold. We know how you feel about beer.

Rheingold Breweries Inc., New York, NY & Orange.
