Anything Less Will Constitute Treason

Instead of presenting arguments for or against any issues this week, we feel a need to sit back and make
a few observations about the groups that compose Davidson College and about the newspaper that attempts to reflect the activities
of these people.

The current generation of students has witnessed a thorough transformation in the administration. In almost every major office of this
college, a new force has settled in to pursue goals which each feels will better strengthen the college. Despite the
protests and condemnations which are leveled at this administration by many faculty and students, the record of this group of
men is admirable.

When Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan came to Davidson in the fall of 1970, he found a
college resting on past prestige. While other colleges and universities were investigating new means to reform their curricula, Davidson was
still mired in traditional methods. Certainly, the vice president is not responsible for all the change that has occurred since
then; several faculty members have pushed for reform as well. But Bevan was the initiating force which pushed new programs
to completion. Under his leadership, the Honors College finally opened its doors, physical education requirements were made flexible, the South
Asia Studies Program was strengthened, Career Service established, foreign studies programs extended, an art major instituted, and the academic regulations
codified.

Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell arrived here in January 1971 to find the financial system of
the college in shambles. While other colleges were organizing assaults on foundations, alumni, and corporations, Davidson had not. Cornell arrived
and organized Davidson's financial effort. Through strong leadership and a hard-nosed attitude, he limited the spending of the college so
that Davidson would remain in the black, as other colleges sink into deficit spending. He organized a deferred giving program,
pushed for the Queens-Davidson capital campaign, established "Update" to encourage alumni giving, and actually increased giving in the Annual Fund
through telethons and other such means.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. is responsible for the change to a progressive administration. With an eye toward the
future of Davidson in higher education, he recruited Cornell, Bevan, and Dean of Students Will Terry to their respective jobs.
We feel his selections to be good ones. In the past two years, the president has set two goals for
the college and then attained them. Viewing the decay of the fraternity system, Spencer attempted to arrest the downslide by
instituting a system of non-selective eating clubs, which in the long run we feel will benefit the college. Last year,
the president designated as the year for coeducation. An orderly process of implementation was drawn up, and the president persuaded
the Board of Trustees to accept it.

The problem with the administration seems to be one of implementation. Although their goals appear to be in the best
interests of the college, the means of implementation by which Davidson attains these goals has been less than admirable. The
administration acts with little tact and little regard for the feelings of the faculty or students. Rather than consulting the
constituencies on various programs, the administration would rather spring such programs on the community as a "fait accompli." This is
the reason why students and faculty have little respect for or trust in the administration.

To look at the faculty is a difficult task indeed. Looking at the professors as individuals, we believe Davidson to
possess one of the finest faculties in the country. Certainly, there are some teachers who are better than others, but
on the whole, they are good men who are conscientious about their jobs. Viewing the faculty as a governing body,
however, we find their record less than admirable. One paradox that has baffled us since we came here is how
so many brilliant men can congregate in Perkins Auditorium and make so many ludicrous decisions. They turned down student representation
on the Budget, Buildings and Grounds Committee; they turned down student representation on the Admissions Committee; they turned down student
representation at Faculty meetings, and often carry on petty feuds with the administration and students. The core of Davidson's strength
rests with the faculty and their attitude toward the curriculum. While we encourage them to maintain academic standards and evaluate
existing programs, we also encourage them to open their minds to new ideas.

To view the students is an even more difficult task, but some trends can be discerned. One major one is
apathy. When we first arrived at Davidson, we found a very vibrant community of students interested in the affairs of
the college, the town, and the nation. Today we find a student body most of whom are interested only in
themselves. "If it doesn’t concern me, why should I worry about it" seems to be a common attitude expressed. Of
course, there are the minority that run a student government, work for the Union, or even edit a paper, but
this minority is shrinking.

As a newspaper, we have tried to reflect these problems and offer solutions. In several cases, our influence resulted in
change; in other cases, it has not. Nevertheless, we have tried to treat the issues as candidly and as...openly as
possible. We are confident that our successor is a capable man, and that he will surpass the standards of journalistic
integrity that we like to think we have set. As stated in the editorial policy of the paper, “THE DAVIDSONIAN
is often critical, and that is its job. For as long as there is a Davidson College, there will be
things wrong with it. And as long as there are things wrong with it, THE DAVIDSONIAN will be the prophet,
critic, and gadfly that says so. To do anything less would constitute treason to the principles of good journalism and
a disservice to Davidson College.”

Talk Always Comes Around To Power

I've been hearing a lot about the powers around here and it set my mind to wondering. I thought of
the great powers of one person against another. Administration powers, powers to decide. I saw faculty power—teacher power. I heard
one person scream. A fight, a man’s hand was all broken. No good was done, but there were some people
laughing. It felt bad to wonder about things like that, though. I soon stopped.

I can remember hearing a lot of talk about power when I was a kid. People up just shy of
the mountains knew enough about politics. They respected and feared it as a necessary evil. Nobody any good ever messed
with it. And the results always seemed to screw things up worse than they were before. These people hated politics
but they loved power. It was a sign of power to kill the most groundhogs, to drink more corn liquor
than anybody else, to have the quietest wife and family.

One name always came up in talking. Sam Cullen was a geometry teacher at the local high school. His father
had been a Baptist minister and Sam had gone to school. Sam had been a bachelor for some years, at
26 was a deacon who listed chewing tobacco as his greatest vice. Sam didn't show many signs of force on
the outside. Lots of times the guys joked he didn't show many signs of life. He was always the last
to leave a dance, and even then he usually picked someone's mother or aunt for a late cold dance. It
wasn't quite fair to say Sam wasn't interested, it's just that he didn't show it much.

It was a big surprise then when Sam took up learning to fly an airplane. Sam had just been a
teacher so long that nobody expected anything new or inventive from him. He was the talk of the place, though,
when he'd drive over to Danville on Sundays. About an hour later a plane would buzz by overhead, dip once,
then turn around and fly away and everybody would say “There’s Sam.” It surprised everybody, except Sam, when one day
the man who owned the airplane told him not to fly it anymore. Seems he could get more good letting
people fly it for money, and Sam couldn't meet his price.

Sam turned to the finer pursuits of life. Myrtle Camden had met Sam when he was 28. She thought he
was a quiet man, the kind to make a good husband and fine father. Myrtle was a trifle past her
prime at 25, and such qualities mattered to her. Now Sam, not being one to rush things, spent two years
courting Myrtle. They went out about twice a week. Once to Church on Wednesday, and to dances on Saturday night.
Myrtle wasn't much of a dancer and Sam didn't care much for church, so mostly they just sat. Everybody knew
Myrtle was dictating the terms of this arrangement. She wasn't particularly sought after, though she had a lot of money
and wasn't a bad looker. She just decided on Sam and was willing to let him take a little time.

During every day of that time, everyone, including Myrtle, thought that she was in control. One night though, as they
sat outside the dance hall in one of those big frame swings next to the school, Sam held Myrtle’s hand
and began to talk of the future. It was really his first approach at definiteness, and he mentioned such things
as a home with a farm, garden, children, his job. Myrtle interrupted him after a few sentences. “Sam,” she said,
“I'd always thought we'd live right around here in one of these big old houses in town.”

Sam stood still for just a minute. Then guided Myrtle up with his hand over hers. He looked at her
intensely. Then with a single move of a long, bony chalk-ingrained hand he almost knocked her face off. Sam let
her sit on the ground and cry for a while. Nobody said a word and finally he walked her to
his car, took her home and bid goodnight.

Well that’s been over forty years ago now. Myrtle’s been with Sam every day during that time. He's still a
teacher and they own a farm. For some reason, though, Myrtle’s been a whole lot quieter. When they sit around
in Chatham to talk tobacco or crops or goods, talk most always comes around to power. And power's a nice
subject to know a lot about and everybody wants more. They still debate Sam's power, though. They're not convinced if
it’s good or if it's bad. That's the power of a good man to knock down a good woman.
