The Davidsonian
November 30, 1973

Three ‘Picture Book’ Quips Cranked Sour
By HUGH MOORE
Contributing Editor

Many pointed at Davidson. The Quips and Cranks, ‘It seemed incomplete,’ one senior remarked. “It’s like last year’s book is part one, and we're still waiting for part two.”

“It’s probably the worst annual I've seen at Davidson,” she said. “The quality of some of the pictures was very poor. Team members should have been listed for all ones,” she added.

Dean of Students Will Terry took a look at The Quips and Cranks. “It’s a nice picture book,” he said, “but it doesn’t really reflect life at Davidson. I think we should decide parts of one’s years at Davidson,” he said. “We are spending an awful lot of money for what we're getting,” Terry added, “and the yearbook is not worth it.”

Associate Editor of the Davidsonian, Ron Conoley, did the entire book, and there was poor communication between him and his photographers,” Hardgrove explained. “We can't get enough interest or motivation from the student body to do a good job. Ron was just left to meet the brunt of the consequences,” he said. “Maybe we only have enough interest to put out a mediocre book.”

This year’s Quips and Cranks Editor, Jeff George, claims that he can avoid the pitfalls which produced the disappointing annual. “The latest fails the same way the 1972 one did; it has no copy, it’s just a weird collection of pictures,” he said. “It’s probably the worst annual I've seen at Davidson. There was a movement toward annuals with no copy, just interrelated pictures conveying a single theme, but this annual did not have a theme.”

George also indicated that the yearbook was almost completely the work of Editor Conoley. “He ended up doing it all himself because that’s what he wanted to do,” George said. “Ron might have become a little lax.”

George explained that this year’s annual was changed completely. “We will have everything tie in with a central theme, and we will cover those things which a majority of the people are interested in.” Copy will also be used in this year’s book in addition to the photographs.

George is pleased with the annual’s progress thus far. If he can keep his current schedule, the yearbook should be ready for distribution in May. At the latest, the books will be ready by the beginning of the fall term.

Union Events Stall Winter Doldrums
By CHARLES KENNON
Staff Writer

“The three weeks before Christmas are great, with something happening every day,” said Union President Joe Earle. “And the pace until the end of the term isn’t much lighter.” Union plans for the term are being finalized, with plays, concerts, speakers, and movies on the schedule.

Next week will be one of the busiest this year as far as the Union is concerned. On Tuesday, the National Theatre of New York will present the comedy “As You Like It.” Tickets will be $2 for outsiders and $1 for students, faculty, and staff.

The year-long Artist Series will sponsor another play on Dec. 7, “Las Cantigas de Santa Maria.” Performed in the style of an actual 13th-century play, it will relate in song (the “cantigas”) the major miracles of Mary. The New York Times called it “A performance that can only be described as perfect.” Assistant Director of the Union Duff Bruce felt that this was one of the most significant dramas brought to Davidson in recent years.

On Dec. 8, Harry Chapin will perform in concert in Love Auditorium. There will be no admission charge. The Comedy Symposium will have three Marx Brothers films Dec. 10-11. They will be “Coconuts,” “Horsefeathers,” and “A Day at the Races.” James Hamilton ‘60 will speak in Phi Hall on Dec. 11.

Fellows Seek New Applicants

Although you have been at Davidson for only a few months, you are about to make an important decision that could affect many facets of your college career. You have been sent application materials from the North Carolina Fellows Program (NCFP) and you must decide now whether you intend to apply. New members are accepted ONLY as freshmen; thus, NOW is your first and last opportunity.

You have read the introductory material mailed to you. The brochure states, “The North Carolina Fellows Program seeks to identify young persons with exceptional leadership potential and to encourage and assist them in the development of these qualities. In this way, the program hopes to contribute to an increased supply and quality of future leaders for North Carolina.”

The Campus Tax Committee has approved the DAVIDSONIAN request that all future editors of the newspaper receive $100 per term for their work. At the end of each term, the editor...will receive his check which may be spent in any way he or she sees fit. Translated into action, this means contact with other students (and faculty) of high leadership quality here at Davidson through bi-monthly luncheons (business meetings, social gatherings, exchange of ideas). Fellows also experience and share thoughts with Fellows of other North Carolina campuses where the program operates (N.C.A. & T., N.C. State, and UNC-CH) during weekend retreats. This means occasional seminars to discuss topics of special interest, dinner meetings with on-campus speakers such as Rennie Davis and Sister Elizabeth McAlister, and discussions with leaders of diverse professional fields. It means self-development seminars designed to create an awareness in the individual of his own weaknesses and strengths as perceived by peers, as well as to underline his particular potentialities in the area of interpersonal relations and, more specifically, the capacity for leadership. Such weekend experiences are conducted through the encounter medium and are supervised by skilled professionals. It means summer opportunities and internships (many of which are listed in the pamphlet you received). An internship as viewed by the Fellows Program is a responsible, usually independent, position in close association with an established leader involving in-depth work of a high level on a practical scale. This aspect of the program can be illustrated with several examples from last summer’s internships:

Government: On the political front, Andy Langford spent three months in the Washington office of U.S. Congressman, working on projects of particular interest to the Congressman, writing speeches for the Congressman, and observing the legislative process by attending Senate and House sessions (Cambodian bombing discussions), Committee meetings, and Watergate Hearings.

Business: As a branch banking assistant for First Union National Bank in Charlotte, Reggie Harding was responsible for consumer loans, new accounts, and general customer development and relations.

Medicine: Rick Damewood worked as a pathology intern at Princeton Memorial Hospital, Princeton, W. Va., performing such duties as autopsies and blood cultures, as well as gaining experience in other areas of hospital medicine.

He left Davidson as Hamilton is a lawyer on Senator Sam Ervin’s staff and is prominent in Watergate legal research. He will speak behind-the-scenes, answer questions about what witnesses have said, and discuss some of the partisan conflicts that the committee is hampered by. “Hamilton should be a very interesting speaker. He will show the students a legal field that up until now has been somewhat obscure,” said Bruce. “Like a number of the events for this term, he isn’t on the Union calendar of events. Students should watch for our posters and announcements,” he added.

Another speaker on an unusual subject is George Fawcett. Scheduled for Dec. 19, he will talk about U.F.O.s. For years he has been investigating sightings and will discuss his experiences with students.

Mid-winters for this year are scheduled for the first weekend in February. No speakers or finer details have been finalized for those dates although several are under consideration. Buckminster Fuller, described as “the last of the Renaissance men,” will speak at Davidson Feb. 4 and 5. The Union is trying to get a co-speaker for the occasion. The Union has joined the Video Tape Network. It is in the process of buying some playback equipment and tape programs. Bruce hopes to have some film to show prior to Fuller’s arrival. “We plan to establish viewing areas in the bar and other convenient locations,” Bruce explained.

Several events are tentatively scheduled for the late winter or early spring. Dick Gregory, noted black comedian and politician, will speak, but the exact date has yet to be set. “We hope that this series of events will take the edge off the boredom of the winter term,” Bruce stated. Earle added, “We feel we have given students a true alternative to studying.”

Executive Editor: MIKE TANNER
Managing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, MARK DEATON, CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Editors: JIM SITTERSON, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Associate Editors: ALAN BLAKLEY, DOUG BROWN, TOM BRUCE, STEVE CANTERBURY, TODD EADES, JOE EARLE, MARY HOBBIE, RICHARD ROMEYN, MILES WARD
Contributing Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, PHILIP BISHOP, DAVID HANIG, ANDY LAMAS, HUGH MOORE, JIM PAULSEN
Technical Assistant: BILL ELLETT
Asst. Managing Editors: LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, LARRY MIMMS, MARK WILENSKY
Photography Editor: PETE GOODMAN
News Editor: HARRIETT HODGES
Assistant Features Editors: ALAN FORD, FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Assistant Sports Editor: MARK CONNORS
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKCOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Asst. Business Managers: PHIL STYKES, DAVID TRADER
Typists: CHOLLET STILL, PATTI SHANKWEILER
Contributors this week: Ann Bode, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Jeff Johnson, Chuck Kennon, and Joe McMillan.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription: $5.00.