Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HORN, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR
MAY 11, 1973

Peace In Our Time?

This week's clash between the SLC and Random House is just one more skirmish in a battle which has been
going on for three years. We feel that if SPE wishes to maintain that they are just a group of
students who all happen to eat at Random House, they should cooperate with the college and meet the requirements of
the new leases. As a selective fraternity, SPE is not entitled to a house on Patterson Court. Therefore, there must
be more than a merely token distinction between SPE and Random House. Up until now, SPE has been able to
remain selective and have a house on the court without making the sacrifices or displaying the cooperation which the other
national fraternities have shown. The SLC is not being vindictive in our opinion, but is simply carrying out the self-selection
system which was ordered by the Trustees in 1970. Since it is not completely clear how much warning Random House
had in this matter, we feel that the college should cooperate in every possible way to help Random House find
the necessary members. This is particularly true in light of the fact that self-selection is now past and finding the
needed students may be extremely difficult. This friction on Patterson Court has prevented it from being as beneficial to the
entire student body as it might be. It is hoped that this will be the end of the civil war
on the court and that a spirit of cooperation will prevail.

On Christian Commitment

We continue to find it difficult to understand the rationale behind the policy of excluding non-Christians from gaining tenure at
Davidson. The time has come for a change. It will destroy neither the community nor the Christian nature of the
college to have individuals of different religious persuasions as tenured faculty members. In fact, exposure to such divergent viewpoints, as
with regard to anything else, can only give an individual a better basis on which to make his own decision
on religious commitment. And are we so hypocritical to boast that we are an open community, and yet practice discrimination
among our own ranks? We therefore again urge the Trustees to reconsider the college’s position, and to make it possible
for anyone, regardless of his religious beliefs, to gain tenure.

Senatorial Stagnation

It might be a little too embarrassing — not to mention exhausting — to go back into all that campaign
propaganda, all those promises by prospective senators, and pinpoint each of the specific instances where assurances of “action ... motivation
... new life in the Senate” just haven't been realized. The most striking commentary on the inactivity of the student
Senate is the fact that complaints come not from members of the general student body; they seem not even to
know that the Senate exists. The most disturbing proof is that condemnations have to come from senators themselves; they're the
only ones who know what's happening with the Senate, and they seem to know that it doesn’t amount to much.

What first occurs is the question, “What’s the Senate for, anyway?” Presumably it has something to do with representing the
student body — which implies being the focal point of student action. Admittedly, at Davidson there may often be a
marked lack of student action to focus. But the Senate, by its very existence, asserts that it will locate, stimulate,
nurture any potential for activity that can be identified. The initiative in reestablishing responsive, active student government must therefore be
taken by the Senate. The first responsibility belongs to each individual senator.

MILES WARD

Sterling Leaves College Without Gold Wreaths

In the old days they gave prizes to the victors, the most courageous, to those who had struggled and done
well. You could spend those rewards; they were heavy, golden in the coin of the realm. Davidson presently numbers many
such men among her sons. There are many here with us, but we shall soon lose one. This week brings
the announcement that Peter Sterling will leave to direct education at Colonial Williamsburg.

Peter was one of the first people I saw at Davidson. In those days, sans beard, with clothes of more
conservative cut, he was an admissions officer. After one year’s duty there he moved over to the student union building.
His career there has been one of frustrated progress.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Coming in as a junior partner, he has consistently tried to entertain educationally, to schedule, plan, promote, present only the
best in events. He has tried to spark interests beyond the classroom. After two years, some of his hard work
is paying off.

Peter was a Davidson graduate — a poly-sci major — Phi Beta Kappa. He won a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship to
Georgetown University where he received a Master's Degree. For eight years he was director of studies at a school in
New England. In 1970 he did what he had always hoped for — he came back to Davidson. He was
a soccer coach here. He built his own home. His wife Alice is the first grade teacher at the Children's
Schoolhouse in Cornelius. This group has provided scholarships for needy kids.

At the Symposium on Corrections, Davidson was plunged into the very heart of the corrections situation. Peter had fired up
people with ideas. At the Medical Symposium, three major speakers came. Only one was given a gratuity. We have had
perhaps as much programming at Davidson on as little money as anywhere else in the country. Much of the credit
goes to Peter Sterling. Peter is current in education. His contribution has been to the intellectual awareness at Davidson.no wreaths
or garlands or gold for you, Peter. Yet you deserve them. Davidson got much more than it paid for. Ave
atque vale, with our appreciation and gratitude.

Student Blasts Art Department

To the Editor:

Having just returned from my initial viewing of the so-called student show in Cunningham Fine Arts Hall, I find it
difficult to reflect upon the works there exhibited as one should following a viewing of any art exhibit. As I
walked through the halls and gallery of the building, I grew practically ill as I reacted more and more violently
to what I found there. Not to be mistaken, I was not reacting to specific works in this manner. I
was nauseated by the handling and treatment of the entire show. My criticisms are many, but there are a few
specific items that directly offended me that I would like to point out.

First, I was upset by the inexcusable lack of communication on the opening date for the show. The brochure put
out by the Art Department states that the opening of the show was to have been on Monday evening, May
7. As you may recall, the opening was held on Sunday, May 6. I was personally offended by this unexpected
and underpublicized shift of dates as I had people who were to come from out of town to view the
show and who had made advance plans to be here on the 7th. As it was, they missed the show
and are quite upset. I missed it myself as I was out of town, having made my plans earlier in
congruence with the May 7 date.

When I saw the show, I was again offended by the work that was presented. My understanding of the purpose
of the show is that it is provided as a forum for the presentation of a representative cross-section of what
is happening in the studio arts here on the campus. As I viewed the show, I felt that it was
a two-man show for Messrs. Freed and Woodward. Indeed, they are artists and deserve full credit as such. My regret,
however, is that they dominated the show with such a profusion of works that by sheer numbers they slighted others
who had a far fewer number of works in the show. To me, this does not serve to fulfill the
purpose of the show. If these artists or the professors here desire to hold a one-man show for either of
these gentlemen, then have one! Do not pervert an eclectic show for the purposes of a few individuals.

Several other things have come to my attention as worthy of criticism. I noticed that the hanging was done with
a staple gun. Several works were punctured with the staples. Such wanton disregard for the works depreciates the value of
the whole show, much less the works that are so treated.

In conclusion, I must say that I am sorely disappointed in the Art Department as a whole, and those who
handled the show. I had expected much better on the basis of the success of previous shows. I hope that
efforts are made to improve next year's show so that it will serve the entire student body and present what
should be the most interesting show of the year.

Tyler Downing '71
Davidson College

To the Editor:

In his column of April 27, Joe Earle states, “The cult continues New York raunchiness. You couldn't take them home
to Mama.” It may come as a great surprise to you, Joe, but “Mama” is still quite a few steps
ahead of you when it comes to the topic of sex. What turns her off is the fact that raunchiness
doesn't make good music, just as it doesn't make good art or good drama. “Mama” tried to get this point
across to you, which, of course, is why you'd be embarrassed to take the Blue Oysters home. If you missed
the message, and if raunchiness turns you on, you've got bigger problems to solve than “who’s the top rock group?”

R.C. Tierney M.D.
Memphis, Tenn.

To the Editor:

Action by a few students in regard to the laundry linen service has become somewhat irresponsible. Recently, one student had
his sheets ripped off when he put them down to eat lunch. Equally as contemptible have been the methods used
by some students to get the most for their laundry dollar—a few have resorted to some deceitful methods in order
to gain an extra sheet or pillowcase. Some students have kept the linen that was provided for prospective freshmen scholars.
I would like to encourage these people to return this linen to the laundry. Someone else is responsible for these
sheets and has anticipated them being returned.

Richard Anderson '75
Davidson College
