Page Two February 16, 1973 The Davidsonian

Vanishing Records Plague Music Lab
By BRUCE CORSER
Asst. Managing Editor

Herbert Russell Jr., administrative assistant in the Music Department, has confirmed that the seemingly perennial loss of musical scores and
records from the record library is continuing this year. One example he recalled in particular was the recent loss of
an album dealing with the history of jazz. This one collection was valued at a retail cost of $60. Russell
said he believed that this and other missing items were probably sitting in someone's room. However, he added that he
thought that their removal from the library was probably done innocently. Russell pointed out that cassettes or records can't be
removed from the library because this would enable people to reproduce them. Emphasizing that this "all stems back to Federal
Copyright laws," he revealed that "recordings can't be reproduced even by an educational institution. We have to abide by copyright
laws to keep from being sued."

Russell then related that the college had a fine collection of recordings with examples of almost every type of music.
However, the library operates on a very limited budget and the loss of scores and recordings necessitates the expenditure of
part of this budget on their replacement. "Some records can't be replaced anymore," he continued.

Another problem facing the listening lab is the breakage of equipment. Russell mentioned that once three units of listening and
recording equipment were broken at the same time. This is compounded by the rocketing costs of repairs. Although the library
features 15 listening tables, Russell said, "Our biggest headache is trying to keep up with the students."

The library is used primarily by students in Music 21, a music appreciation course, yet many departments make frequent use
of the lab. Among others, Rupert Barber's drama classes, some of Chalmers Davidson's history courses, and Honors College students require
use of the library.

What's ahead for the record library? Russell suggested that the "ideal set-up would be one complete listening and recording center."
This set-up would include both a language lab and a record library. He offered the alternative of either having such
a center in a new Union or in the soon to be vacated library.

AND THE WORK GOES ON
(Staff photo by Goodman)
Library construction proceeds at brisk pace.

SGA Suggests Two Students For Faculty BBC Committee
By HARRIETT HODGES
News Editor

The student Senate recommended two students, one of which could be chosen by the faculty, to be placed on the

Bevan Outlines Summer Slate For Students In Faculty Note
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Asst. Managing Editor

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan outlined three summer programs for students in a letter to the faculty
on Feb. 7. The programs planned are the Liberal Arts Program for Teachers which will be opened to students again,
the independent study and Extended Study programs, and a session on abnormal psychology in cooperation with Broughton Hospital.

The Liberal Arts Program for Teachers was instituted to enrich public school teachers’ background in the liberal arts in hopes
that classroom teaching would be improved. The program will include classes in deviance in drugs and sexual behavior, African government
and politics, and environmental sciences. "I'd say that one third of the teachers who started in the program are still
with it," said Bevan.

Bevan commented

Davidsonian Staff
Managing Editors:
BOB HOWELL
BRUCE MALOY
MIKE TANNER

Sports Editors:
JIM SITTERSON
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Assistant Managing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD

Technical Assistant:
BILL ELLETT

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
TOM BRUCE
MILES WARD
GRAY WILSON

News Editor:
HARRIETT HODGES

Assistant Sports Editors:
MARK CONNORS
BOB WETZEL

Contributing Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
BETSY ALEXANDER
MARY HOBBIE
HUGH MOORE
JIM PAULSEN
RICHARD ROMEYN

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKCOM
JOHN LEMMON
PAUL MITCHELL

Assistant Features Editor:
VAL VAN HORN

Advertising Manager:
RICH SMITH

Assistant Business Manager:
CLIFF KIRK
PHIL STIKES

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
ROBERT GATES

Photographers:
ROB PETERSON
JIM PORTER
ROB STRAND

Contributors this week:
David Hanig, Jim Jernigan, Jack Linard, Frazier Marsh, Will Robertson, Charlie Slagle, Francis Townsend, and Lex Veazey.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.that students have added
a new dimension to the program. They enjoy talking with the teachers, and both teachers and students profit from the
contact. There will be two sessions. One will last from June 13 to July 2, and the other from July
9 to July 28. Students who wish to participate in the program should contact Professor William B. Hight. The Extended
Studies program and independent study will be arranged much the same as they were during the regular school year. Bevan,
speaking about the independent study program, said, “It’s a kind of intensive program for him (the student); he has more
time to work on his own.” Students who would like to enroll in either of these two programs should arrange
formal contracts with respective professors. Bevan will endorse independent study projects, and Professor Randall R. Kincaid will endorse Extended Studies
contracts. Registration will take place during the regular June and July registration periods.

The Abnormal Psychology Summer Program combines Psychology 131 and Psychology 231. Open to a limited number of students, the session
is designed to give the participant a practical learning experience. “They participate in the entire hospital effort. If you want
to take abnormal psychology, that's the way to take it,” said Bevan.

The Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee (BBG) in their meeting Tuesday night recommended for the committee, which is presently without
student representation, were Senator Bob Edmunds and Steve Smith. SGA President Bo Phillips indicated that he hoped the faculty would
respond to the Senate's action by placing one of the students on the BBG.

The Senate heard a report on the actions of the Campus Planning Committee (CPC) by Brent Lane. Lane told the
Senate that “the committee is considering what actions will be taken concerning funds for housing, a new Union, facilities for
the chemistry and biology departments, expansion of the fine arts program, and improvement of athletic facilities.” “An important part of
the committee's work,” according to Lane, “involves deciding what direction growth of the college will take.” Possible alternatives include expansion
in the direction of Patterson Court or in the direction of the athletic practice fields. Lane pointed out that such
decisions served to “redefine the Davidson community. Each element, if changed, will alter the social patterns of the community. We
are working for a viable kind of community.” Also, Lane said that housing is the committee's top priority at present.
Due to the proposed increase of 200 in the student body by September 1974, the college must construct additional housing.
In view of this fact, the CPC is working on varieties of future housing, Lane said. Such apartments for possible
student housing include married students and single students.

Former SGA President Ralph Peeples presented a report on the actions of the Student Life Committee (SLC) on Sigma Phi
Epsilon and Random House regarding alleged pledging and bidding violations. The results of the action, Peeples said, “is that the
off-campus organizations are being given a chance to work within the Davidson social system.” While the off-campus organizations were denied
membership to the Patterson Court Council, they will be allowed to participate in the Council on Social Organizations. An important
aspect of this action by the SLC, according to Peeples, is that it is the first official recognition of the
off-campus organizations by the college.

In other business, the Senate voted to appropriate $20 to send two senators to the National Student Lobby Convention in
Washington, D.C.

Wine Tasting Results

Davidson College students don't seem to be any different from other students across the country, at least as far as
their wine preferences are concerned. In a nationally sponsored program of wine-tasting parties conducted by the Wine Growers of California,
the California wines used in the experiment were preferred about 85 percent of the time over imported wines costing almost
twice as much. The results of the poll were taken from more than 33,000 students in roughly 600 testings, with
over 150 Davidson students participating. All of the tastings were conducted similarly, with the labels of the four wines used
(two locally purchased California wines and two foreign ones) being hidden, so as not to discriminate unfairly one way or
the other. The participants were instructed to rate the wines on such categories as bouquet, flavor, and aroma.

FACULTY EVALUATION will be discussed in an open meeting with the Faculty Affairs Professional Committee next Thursday, Feb. 22, at
7:30 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium.
