Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

8 p.m. Concert: Saturday, December 15
Saturday, December 15 all day
Paramutual Daily Double: Graduate Record Exam
“Lady in Red” Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Movie: Sam and Ed Traffic
January 1, 1984 Watts Stowe Courts
Main Street Chambers Banquet Hall
starring Rosa Luxemberg

Sunday, December 16
11 a.m. Sermon: ‘The Lord Gave Us Beethoven, What Have You Given Recently’
8 p.m. Lecture: Spiro Agnew: “Lies, Damned Lies” Chambers 230-C

Monday, December 17
all week Kohoutek Heaven
all week Be Kind to Dumb Animals Week: B 275
8 a.m. Drop-Add lines form Chambers first
8:15 p.m. Advice: ‘On Cutting the Gordium Knot, or, The Tie That Binds’
9 p.m. Video-Tape Lecture: Lynn Dean: “The Call Of The Wild: Get Out Before It’s Too Late”
2 a.m. Numb Elroy: ‘‘mumbleings”

Tuesday, December 18
all day Bob Jones University School of Religion
4 p.m. Secret Faculty Meeting Office Morrison Room
9 p.m. Senate: “Is This Meeting Really Necessary” Cunningham

Wednesday, December 19
10:05 a.m. Spencer Hung In Effigy Room Oak Row
10:06 a.m. Bevan Hung in Effigy Oak Row
10:07 a.m. Cornell Hung Oak Row
8 p.m. Fine Film: ‘Hawaiian Disease’ starring Lex Veazey Love Auditorium
8:30 p.m. Intermission Love Auditorium

Thursday, December 20
10 a.m. Tabs and Coke Chambers Banquet Hall
10:05 a.m. Police Bust Chambers Banquet Hall
8 p.m. Freshman Assembly: Masters and Johnson: ‘‘Fun and Games”
9 p.m. What You See Is What You Get Gozinva Palace
10 p.m. What You Got
12:30 a.m. Infirmary: ‘Let’s Roll, Catto: The Grim’s Run” Hwy. 115
1:30 a.m. Aree Alka Seltzer B 216

MAKIN’ BACON (Staff photo by Daguerre)
Do you seniors remember this bunch of freshmen when they inhabited 4th East (now Sentelle) four years ago? Quite a
crowd! Missing from the pic: the What-a-Burger girls (Lynn and Martha).

Unidentified Woman Shot
Tragedy struck the Davidson campus last Tuesday when freshman Egbert P. Pazzola was manacled in the rifle range room after
a wayward shot from his weapon struck and mortally wounded an unidentified woman in the student store directly above. Officer
Osgood Fenworthy led the sobbing youth to an awaiting squad car to be held without bail in the Davidson Police
station pending a preliminary hearing into the charges sometime next April, while Charlotte homicide detective Fenton R. Tween investigated the
hapless circumstances.

Girls Discuss Coeducation
For many of the girls at Davidson this year, coeducation has caused no major adjustment problems. Most of the girls
attended public high schools and thus are familiar with a coed setting. For one group of girls, however, coeducation is
a new experience. Several of the transfer women students from single-sex finishing schools were interviewed about their reactions to Davidson.
For the most part, their comments were favorable.

Francis Lee: ‘‘When I came to Davidson this year I was apprehensive about ‘making’ friends with members of the opposite
sex. I was not sure this would be possible since it is often difficult for a girl to consider a
boy just a friend and vice versa. However, for some reason I have no problems in this area. I wonder
why?”

Margaret Welles: ‘‘Davidson (tee-hee) is really (tee-hee) a lot of fun. I like it. In general, I’m pleased to be
here. My only complaint (tee-hee) concerns boarding facilities here, but now I think (tee-hee) I've transcended this problem. Besides, who
wants to live on campus?”

Lee Newsom: ‘I came to Davidson to study. Being academically inclined, I’ve developed a pronounced proclivity to study 7 days
a week, 10 hours a day. If I keep it up, I’m sure to ‘make’ a Phi ...”

Funds Bail (Continued from page 7)
Looking forward to a great spring season, Douglas mentioned another possible purchase which would be an invaluable asset to the
team. “If the destroyer proves socially unacceptable, we plan to move underground - as it were.” Jumping right into the
spirit of things with the usual enthusiasm necessary for manning his office, Chip Stone recently commented, ‘A nuclear powered team
would be difficult to beat.’’ Stone is referring of course to a nuclear submarine. Possible uses would run along the
lines of underwater tactics. Guy lines running from the centerboards of the Cat’s boats to a place on the hull
of the sub would power the Cats with the speed necessary to win.Betta Kappa: "Confidence is all that is needed,
and I know I’m smart. I came to Davidson and got accepted, didn’t I?"

Mary Miller: "A wonderful experience thus far is what Davidson has been for me. Although I admit that I'm a
little shy, the relaxed environment here has been invaluable in helping me to define an ideal male-female relationship. I’m particularly
indebted to Bill Vaughan and Don Trask. They're so cute. Yes, it looks like the big ‘D’ and I will
get along just groovy."

Martha Royster: "As far as I’m concerned, Davidson is far out, much too conservative. It’s a real downer copping the
drugs I desire and need (LSD, mesc, and cocaine), and most of the dudes I’ve dated don’t make it, man.
I should have gone to Chapel Hill or Berkeley. But now that I’m here, there’s not much I can do,
really. Thank God I’m into yoga."

Ann Bode: "Although a lot of people kidded me at first about my name, Bode is pronounced Bo-dee, not Bod!
Although I still have to be on guard with blind dates, for the most part, all problems are now over.
This is especially true since I've now got a man."

Circumstances: "Near as we can tell," Tween exclaimed, "this h’yar kid’s gun prematurely fired when he sneezed on the trigger
release. The bullet ricocheted off the floor, into the middle pillar, went through the third fixture from the left, up
into the padding between the floors, nicked a brassie 10’’x%'’ wood screw on the upper edge, tore a hole in
the carpet by the display case, knocked a chip out of an official Davidson College laminated mug, hit the victim
between the 5th and 7th lumbar vertebrae, and came to rest in the plastic bookcase after drilling three Rod McKuen
poem books; yep, I think we got 'im on premeditation!"

Student Store Manager Peter Nicholls called it "the most terrible thing that could have happened here. I don’t know if
we can ever replace those McKuen books - they’re part of a set and almost impossible to obtain. I guess
I'll just have to sell them as slightly used and absorb the loss."

When asked about the stricken woman, Nicholls looked over the counter and shrugged, "Nope, sorry I don’t know her; anyway,
she didn’t buy anything so there’s no refund involved."

Meanwhile, police left the expired woman ‘in situ’ in hopes that someone might wander in and be able to identify
the body. Tween indicated that most of the credit for the boy’s capture goes to campus security guard Ray Sherrill
"whose keen foresight and quick thinking led to the arrest of this desperate criminal."

"It’s just too bad he couldn’t have nabbed him before the kid went through with his plan, but then we
wouldn't have been able to prove nothin’."

When asked about a motive involved in the case, Tween replied, "No, I don’t think Pazzola had a getaway car
waiting."

The officer in charge of the shooting range, Capt. Abel White, charged that the whole affair was a gross misunderstanding
and vowed to protect any person connected with the ROTC department "no matter how many innocent victims are involved."

"Anyway, don’t blame the kid for this tactical error," White continued, "blame the weapon. It’s one of those damn RONCO
rifles Colonel Foster picked up last year. I’d been telling him that he couldn't jerk the trigger or he’d be
off in his aim, that he should squeeze the trigger. Besides, Pazzola couldn’t have killed that woman - I didn’t
give him any bullets."

Indeed, White’s words proved true when Tween dug the slug out of the bookcase. After analysis by Charlotte crime lab
lieutenant Durward B. Splinch, the supposed bullet proved to be a piece of "petrified radish which was probably left caught
between the blades of the Veg-O-Matic located in the barrel chamber," Splinch said. "When the boy sneezed, he probably snapped
the bent blade back into position and discharged the radish," explained Splinch, "which just goes to prove the Japanese old
war saying ‘Rousy rifles don’t lead to trifles!’"

After an allegation from the Pazzola family lawyer that the boy was therefore not accountable for the slaying since a
radish is not recognized as a legal murder weapon in North Carolina, Tween nonetheless asserted that "young Egbert is still
liable for failure to execute a correct command from a superior officer, defacing public property, and littering and those can
be mighty serious!"

In his guarded cell, Pazzola choked on his terms as he tried to recreate the day’s shattering events. "This probably
means that I won't even get a chance to leave this crummy place," Pazzola vehemently sputtered.
