The Davidsonian
October 19, 1973

England Year Abroad Delights JYAers
By HERB DIMMOCK, JOHN DOUGLAS, JEFF JOHNSTON

(Ed note: This story is the first in a four-part series dealing with the Junior Year Abroad Experience. It focuses
on the experiences of three Davidson students who spent the past academic year in England.)

Waking up in the morning was always a fine way to start the day on Tiree Isle, Argyllshire, Scotland. One
knew the sun had risen because that was the hour at which the hordes of Highland Flies were beginning to
arouse themselves; one also knew when 10:00 had rolled around because that was the hour at which the winged pests
worked up the pluck to explore the state-bar caverns of the morning-after sleepers’ mouths. So, unzip, and roll out of
both bag and tent to face the glare of the cloudless sky and the wrath of the rest of the
isle’s 10,000,000 flies.

Cleanliness is next to Godliness - even when roughing it away from Mother and the girl next door - so
down the blue-green North Atlantic, down Viva La Classe Touristica! through the fields of clover, down past dozing cows (treading
warily) to the sand and salt and the suds. And it was cold. But so real. Breakfast then of SpaghettiO’s...
with last night’s Irish Stew in the corner of the pot. And then, a little frisbee with the flies -
but blazing hell! Time flies as well and only 30 minutes 'till closing time at the Scarnish Pub 10 miles
away.

Needless to say we made it - one always makes it when a pint of Tartan Special is at stake
- but barely for Hefty was tapping the last draught, Donna Reed picking up the last of the foam-speckled glasses,
Blondie coaxing the last local into leaving. The Three Sisters, soon to be immortalized at the Fifth Annual Tiree Isle
‘Queen of the Island’ Dance and all-local-girls-welcome-no-experience-necessary Beauty Pageant, to be held that very eve at the Crosspol Community Meeting
Hall.

And so it goes, the life of a day and a day in the life of the footloose and fancy-free
Davidson JYAers on summer vacation in Britain. But the dream is over; here we are back at Davidson in October.
As always seems to be the case in the autumn of the year, one finds himself barraged by an avalanche
of information (or bull?). Our concern is to acquaint you with the vast potential of spending a year in England
(hopefully information, not bull). So from our perspective of a year in England, we would like to add two bits.

Planning for and taking a year away from Davidson is not nearly so difficult a proposition as you may think.
Davidson does not offer an organized JYA program in England but such can be a real benefit for the enterprising
individual (all that).

The Tacky Club’s Travelogue
By BOB HOWELL

(Ed Note: Former Managing Editor Bob Howell is studying this year in Montpelier, France.)

So it was beginning, a year in France — dream come true and all that. And if the best thing
about Davidson is the year you spend away from it in Europe, the second best thing would be getting there
by ship. We sailed from New York, some of us still dazed from a first encounter with The City, and
soon found how easy it was to get lost on that 900-foot puzzle of decks, halls, and stairways. The second
thing we realized was that it wasn’t French we should've been studying all that time... Yes, the S. S. Raffaello
is an Italian Lines ship.

On the first night out several decided it would be right to stay up and watch the sun rise -
which, due to considerable haze, it never really did. The feat became characteristic, a sort of symbolic action, and the
Tacky Club was born. Consisting of Hard-Core Tackies and Soft-Core Tackies, the T.C. was essentially part ugly American and part
Crazy Davidsonian. The T.C. in time enjoyed numerous episodes, something along the lines of the “Gidget” series, and to some
this article represents the first installment of a Tacky Travelogue. (Be on the lookout for “The Tacky Club Gets Dysentery.”)

A strong undercurrent of the ship’s operation was an oppressive class system, and we found ourselves on the bottom end
of the first class/cabin class/tourist class syndrome. To right this wrong, an authentic class movement arose, under the fervent inspiration
of David Ward and Robin Atkinson. These dedicated revolutionaries made daily advances into first class territory, walking through their lounges
and sitting in their deck chairs. (Viva la classe touristica!)

Part of the excitement of the voyage was watching how quickly rumors could grow and spread. For example, it was
indeed true that several areas of Italy had reported cases of cholera. It was not true, however, that the disease
had increased to epidemic proportions throughout Europe. Nor was it true that the S.S. Michelangelo, carrying Professor E.F. Jacobus and
family, had been infected and therefore could not land at Cannes, leaving us completely alone in Europe and our beloved
advisor floating around with a bunch of sick Italians. But we had a lot of people believing it was so.

Finally, we landed in Cannes, made our way safely through...customs and found the bus to Montpellier, utterly amazed that the
French they teach in American classrooms is approximately the same as the French spoken in France.

University By JIM JERNIGAN (Ed Note: Davidson student Jim Jernigan is presently attending the University of Zambia in Lusaka. This
story deals with Zambia's developing Nationalistic spirit, exemplified in its educational growth.)

The University of Zambia, located in the capital city of Lusaka, reflects the nation’s effort to stand on its own
feet after years of foreign political domination and continued economic dependence. Upon independence from Britain in 1964, there existed only
100 Zambian university graduates in a nation of 4 million. Zaire, by contrast, had 13 graduates out of 13 million.
The tremendous manpower shortages created by the vacating expatriates necessitated a rapid expansion of educational opportunities for all Zambians.

In a few hours, we rolled into Montpellier, trying not to gape but gaping like the first tourists Europe had
ever seen, trying to realize that this would be our home for a year, trying not to wonder exactly what
it would be like or whether we could make it. Soon we were more or less into an intensive course
of language, literature, and civilization along with more than a hundred other people from all parts of the world, most
of whom, it seemed, spoke pretty decent English. So in between finding and moving into apartments, registering as students at
the university, letting the government know we are here, and numerous other practicalities—all of course with the French, who would
be hard-pressed efficiently to organize and administrate even a birthday party—we (See TRAVELOGUE, page 12).

In 1965, the University of Zambia was founded. Her first students graduated in 1968 and her first doctors graduated this
past July. The present enrollment is 2500 and it continues to rise. Naturally, the University wishes to become African in
personnel, thought, and actions. Zambian Masters and PhD degree holders are virtually non-existent, however. Those Africans that do possess advanced
degrees were educated at Cambridge or the University of London. The curriculum and administrative structures are consequently British in orientation.
Goals are formulated to make the University an African institution. Yet many students wonder exactly what an ‘African Institution’ really
means. Does it mean doing away with the comprehensive exams, rewriting textbooks, or establishing a free University?

From Abroad — Means is: can you write a few letters? Send your letter (remember to tell them you're an
“occasional” (visiting) student) to the office of admissions. What’s that... you’ve been through all that just one year ago to
Davidson? There is a difference; the applications are short and there is no clerical fee. Financially speaking, the cost of
a year in England—including getting there, traveling, and an occasional pint of beer (a cultural necessity)—is substantially less than that
of a year here. Especially if pints of beer are consumed in moderation and if Arthur Frommer’s travel economics are
taken to heart. Speaking from personal experience, even the most ardent pre-science major, assuming he is of determined devotion and
is willing either to suffer through the humid trauma of summer school or double up on a few lab courses,
can achieve the blessing of a Junior Year Abroad. Beware! Davidson’s registration method of learning is replaced in England by
an exam-free independent study seminar approach. Seminars replace lectures; discussions, sleepy note-taking; wide outside reading, yellow highlighting. To say that
our English experience was the greatest (most influential, most enlightening—even most enjoyable) of our 21 years would be an un-
(See BRITAIN, page 12).

RESTING AT THE POND DU GARD. (left to right) Gary Jarrell, Mike Russel, Rubin Atkinson, Pat Sholar, and Geof Arapian
relax under Roman ruins.

Mirrors Zambia’s Emergence In reality, the University is striving quickly to replace foreigners with Zambians, i.e., Zambianization. Despite some changes,
the jobs today’s students will fill are European jobs needing European skills. The curriculum is structured accordingly. The first and
second-year students are either in the School of Natural Science or the School of Humanities. Except for a mandatory African
Studies course, the two schools never overlap. Science students typically take physics, chemistry, biology, and math for the entire year.
It is not uncommon to find a student having four labs a week. Many students even complain about the African
Studies program because it is so different from their basic course of study. The School of Humanities is quite comprehensive
and African in scope. Hard looks into the capitalist-socialist conflicts are prevalent. The writings of George Jackson, Malcolm X, and
Angela Davis are particularly stressed. The quality of Zambian primary and secondary education actually decreased after independence. Many more schools
were built than teachers provided to staff them. Much of the huge educational expenditures in recent years have gone to
hiring expatriate teachers at high European prices. Zambia’s economy is almost totally dominated by the copper mining industry. The School
of Mines is therefore in top demand by students who know that their future will be secure in the mines.
At least half of the (See ZAMBIA, page 12).
