By JIM PAULSEN Staff Writer

According to reliable sources, spiders have taken over a room on the third floor of the Dana Science building. The spiders are multiplying rapidly. Already six mature female spiders have produced 22 egg cocoons. Reports indicate the species have been identified as "Nephila clavipes."

No, this is not another science fiction thriller, but a research project being conducted by Biology professors Donald L. Kimmel Jr., David C. Grant, and Cynthia T. Grant. These three professors and, at present, six students are studying many aspects of the spider, especially the process by which the spider builds its web. Three approaches, histological, biochemical, and behavioral, are being utilized in this research project.

“A unique aspect of our research is the bringing together of these different backgrounds. In this way, we hope to study the interrelationships of these approaches,” said David Grant.

Up until last summer, the research project was only an idea. During the summer, two trips were made to McClellanville, S.C. in order to collect the species, "Nephila clavipes." Since that time, the research project has received a $650 grant in the late fall from the Research Corporation of Atlanta, Ga. The professors are now applying for a long-term grant which will enable them to involve many more students in their research.

During the fall term of this year, students in Kimmel’s Histology class and seven students in Grant's Invertebrate class were involved with various phases of the research project. Jim Campbell, one of six students still involved in research, is studying the neurological composition of the spider. By employing special stains that will only color certain tissues, Campbell hopes to identify and study the nervous tissue of the spider.

“Last term, we had a problem finding a stain that would not cover the entire body but just one particular type of tissue,” said Campbell. “There is interest in spiders because not much research has been done on them. It may be possible to come up with hypotheses that have not been formulated, or possibly identify some tissue. It adds a certain adventure to the project,” said Campbell.

Another student, Marshall Case, is attempting a population study of spiders under a controlled environment. He began with one cocoon and is keeping close statistics on survival and mortality rates. Since beginning the project, the researchers have learned a lot of data and facts concerning the spiders. They hope to apply some of this knowledge on a wider scale.

“Although we are not looking at every fact in terms of applied knowledge, neural control of behavior and secretory activity has a very large application,” said David Grant.

Cynthia Grant is focusing her study on the biochemical factors involved in web building. “One interest in this study is how web building is controlled by the neurological center, and how this neurological...”

(Staff photo by Strand) Phillips and Corlew assume authority this week. The Davidsonian - February 2, 1973 Page Seven - (Staff photos by Goodman) LOTS OF LEG Biology Dept. spiders await experimentation. Spiderologists Research Web Building.Control acts on the release of chemicals involved in silk synthesis,” she said. Considering the behavioral area, David Grant has been studying the coordination that the spider must achieve in catching flies and in repairing and building the web. Kimmel has concentrated on the histological aspects of the research. Neurological staining and embryonic development have been some of the areas of his focus. David Grant points out that a question commonly asked is whether the spiders are poisonous. “The spiders do have a toxin they inject in flies they kill, but we have not tried to find out the effect this toxin has on a man,” he said.

ROTC To Continue Despite Draft End
By ALAN FORD
Staff Writer

Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird has announced the end of the draft. Will one of the results be the demise of the Davidson ROTC program? Colonel Virgil P. Foster, professor of Military Science (PMS), doesn't think so. “The people in this type of program now are not in it because of fear of the draft,” he said. For this reason, Foster said he is not expecting too many drop-outs. “It has about leveled out now," he added.

Foster cited the changes that have been made in the Davidson ROTC program as the main reason. “We are in line with the college; we have our classes arranged to fit the 10-week term used here,” he said. He further stated that students in ROTC only have to drill one term a year at Davidson as opposed to all year at many other campuses. Foster also said that the program here at Davidson College is student-oriented. There are enough fringe benefits to keep it viable without the draft.

When asked whether he thought the end of the draft would result in ending ROTC, Davidson Draft Counselor Steve Dodd said, “I think the Army is counting on the fact that enrollment will not drastically reduce.” He cited both monetary and other inducements offered by the program as the basis for such a feeling on the part of the Army. “I hope the students who wish to disenroll from ROTC wait until spring term to do so out of consideration for the department simply because the members of the department have helped particular students and given them ‘a way out’ of impending induction. However, in light of recent developments, any student who wishes to get out of ROTC should do so,” Dodd said.

Dodd pointed out that when the draft expires on June 30th, all that will actually end is the President's power to induct; the Selective Service machinery will remain active. Dodd stressed the fact that everybody will still have to register on his 18th birthday, or within a 60-day period beginning 30 days before his birthday. According to Dodd, immediate registration will be critical.

There will be a meeting Sunday night at 10:15 p.m. in the DAVIDSONIAN office for all students interested in working for the DAVIDSONIAN as a reporter, photographer, or on the business staff.