Union Janitor Deese Doubles As Old-Time Blues Performer
By VAL VAN HORN
Asst. Features Editor

“He is the kindest human being, without exception,” declared Susie Summers, speaking of the Union’s gentle custodian. Well-liked by all
who meet him, perhaps not many of the students know that Fred Deese was once a blues singer. Charmed by
his mellow singing as he works, however, the listener soon finds out.

He takes his lunch hour in the Union reading room, square capable hands twisting a phantom rubber band. Fred Deese
has an excellent memory—distant dates tumble out easily. The rubber band snaps as he begins to speak.

“I’ve lived in Davidson 32 years. I was raised on a farm in Monroe. We'd get 50 cents for 12-14
hours of work. The band was the only way to earn spending money.

“How it got started, I was working for some people, and their son was a guitar-picker. Once I was out
working and humming, and he came up and said, ‘Fred, I didn’t know you could sing.’

“I told him I couldn’t,” laughs Deese in reminiscing, “just in my own way. I remember that as well as
if it were yesterday, and it was 35 years ago.”

His employer's son reminded him that it would be a good way to earn extra money. Deese was dubious and
said that he didn’t think anyone would pay to hear him sing. Nevertheless, he decided to give it a go.

“It took a month to get the boys together good enough to play at a dance. The first time that
we sung we didn't have money enough for a guitar, so we only had a flute and a washboard.

“We were paid $4 because we didn’t have a guitar. We saved it, and the four of us earned another
$3, and went out and bought a guitar for $7.

“The second time we had a guitar, so we got $5. We'd sing from 8 p.m. until 12, and get
$5 for four—a $1.25 apiece.

“Money wasn’t then like it is now, you could do gracious with $1.25. We'd play the same amount of time
for coloreds for $2. From ‘34 to ‘36 we earned $7, from ‘36 to ‘39 we made $15," he said.

“We'd play at the County Frolics. They had step and buck dancing, and the two-step and the Charleston. I would
have been a good dancer, but I was raised that it was a sin. I was raised that the bad
man would get you if you danced.

“Anyway, we didn't have any way to ride, so we'd walk eight to ten miles while carrying our instruments to
play. There was only a washboard, flute, and guitar.

“When we'd sing there'd be roads of people, roads of them coming to hear us sing. There'd be roads of
them as there wasn't a way to get a ride.”

AN OPINION
Citizen
By ROBERT TOUCHTON
Staff Writer

“Citizen, you have been accused of aiding and abetting the rise of tyranny, caprice, and autocracy in this fair land.
How do you plead?”

“Not guilty, Your Honor.”

“Citizen, on November 7 of last year did you not enter an electoral polling place for the purpose of voting
in favor of Republican electors pledged to support Richard Milhous Nixon for the Presidency?”

“I did so enter that place, Mr. Prosecutor.”

“And did you, further, so vote for those electors?”

... Arrogance Infected (Continued from Page 5)

given an hour-long address, building to an emotional climax, complete with lectern pounding and ending with the shout, “Victor Hugo
est le plus grand poète de la France!” To this Sartre was supposed to have replied with wry resignation, “Oui,
monsieur, vous avez raison. Victor Hugo est le plus grand poète de la France...Helas!”

The professor could say very well that the student body of Davidson is ‘the best in the South,’ ‘the cream
of the crop,’ to which he might add, like Sartre, ‘Helas!’ If this be cream, spare us please the curds
and whey! But, indeed, we have been spared the curds and whey and the schmierkase to boot!

The student here is, in truth, academically excellent, if not sartorially and morally so. The Admissions Office proclaims the first
fact, visual cognition proves the second and student behavior, in and out of class, suggests the third.

Now, having said this in rotund terms, he proceeded to qualify these observations so as not to apotheosize the student
academically nor to damn him morally. As for his sartorial state: che sera, sera.

Academically and morally of what type student did the professor most disapprove? He went down his list. Was it the
athlete whose only reason for being at Davidson was his proficiency at throwing a rubber ball through a metal hoop?
No! Was it the newly arrived co-eds? Certainly not! The fruit of paradise was so new at the school he
had not had the time to appraise it, let alone taste it (academically, of course). Was it the not-too-discreet acid-head
who, in class, nodded like a breeze-blown flower, like, perhaps, the very source of his own inebriation? No! Was it
the squeaky-voiced, pimply-faced effeminate, one who always had the correct answer to his most well-planned, devious questions? Frustrating as he
may be, the professor could not really disapprove of him either. After all, academic excellence is what he is being
paid to seek and he had to take it where he found it.

Suddenly he hit upon it! The one type he most disapproved of in the student body. Disapproved of? Despised! It
was the student who did not know something—some discipline, some art, and who was grinningly proud of the fact that
he did not know it. This was the intolerable one. What single adjective could he apply to such a student?
The professor thought a while. Proud? Conceited? No. There really was only one word. A shudder ran down his back
as he penned it to end his column: “Arrogant.”

Deese recounted Deese has sung in the Union before. A song which he madeHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving
the original meaning and punctuation:

---

up about the Depression was performed then, along with some "30's blues." Asked for a sample of his blues singing,
Deese strokes his grizzled head and explains that because of smoking, his voice isn't like it was in the '30s,
but he'll sing anyway. Deese tells of the guitar plucking that should accompany the song. None being available, he keeps
time with a heavy, slow stomping. The lines come out in a mellow voice:

"He-ev-ey-en honey. Hey-eveeveey girl. Now do you hear me callin' you? You so sweet. So sweet, my little woman. So
sweet."

With a sigh, Deese looks up. "Well, I guess that’s about the end. Times now aren't like they used to
be." The lunch period is over.

The Davidsonian
April 6, 1973
Page Seven

CUSTODIAL BLUES

"I'd sing some weekend in the Union if I was asked."

Tried For Nixon Vote

"Objection, Your Honor."
"Objection overruled. Answer the question."
"I did."
"Now, Citizen. As a result of your vote, was not the sovereignty of North Vietnam violated repeatedly by one of
the fiercest air attacks in the history of mankind in the following month?"
"My vote had nothing to do with those attacks."
"Do you presume to tell this court that had that man not been overwhelmingly elected, those attacks would have been
staged anyway?"
"I cannot engage in speculation, Mr. Prosecutor."
"Citizen, do you know what one Senator of Mr. Nixon's party said of that move—that Mr. Nixon seemed to have
gone temporarily mad?"
"I heard the remark."
"Are you aware that no one was consulted during that period of attack who had been duly elected by the
people—that the People’s Congress was snubbed and ignored?"
"I was so aware."
"Citizen, can you claim exemption from prosecution for supporting the rise of a man who gained his position through fraud,
spying, planted agents, lies, and political espionage?"
"Those charges are unfounded."
"How can you claim they are without foundation when campaign staffers have been convicted in court for their part? When
one of those staffers fears for his safety if he tells the truth? When that President said the previous January
that he personally ran his campaigns and took personal control of them? When the President's personal immunity from testifying to
the people's representatives has been extended to include his entire staff for purely political reasons and not for the national
security?"
"Objection, Your Honor."
"Objection overruled."
"Do you then deny that you had any part in the rise of such a man to such a position?
Did you not become personally associated with that campaign by monetary and time commitments?"
"I worked actively with the campaign."
"Do you then deny that you had any part in the creation of the present situation of one-man rule, arbitrary
impoundments of allocated funds, and intimidation against the press?"
"I did not, when I voted, wish to offer support to such activities."
"But by your vote did you not give that man such power and put your implicit trust in him?"
"I suppose I did."
"Citizen, are you aware that the President has impounded funds specifically allocated by the People’s Congress to aid those in
need, including the poor, the sick, working mothers, and students?"
"I am aware of certain impoundments."
"Citizen, where is the money for the December bombing of North Vietnam to come from? Was the money for that
campaign specifically allocated by the People’s Congress?"
"It was not specifically allocated to my knowledge. It will come from general military funds, I suppose."
"Citizen, have military funds been impounded?"
"Not to my knowledge."
"Citizen, what gave the President the right to carry on that war? Had Congress declared war?"
"The Gulf of Tonkin Resolution gave the President power in place of a declaration of war."
"Had that resolution not been repealed?"
"It had. But the President as Commander-in-Chief had to give aid to our military men abroad."
"In January, perhaps. No troops now remain in Vietnam. What is your justification for continued heavy bombing of Cambodia when
the President continues to tell the people the war is over?"
"The war must be brought to an end."
"But has not the President himself told the people the war is over, that we must forget it (though not
forget those who refused to give themselves for nothing gained)?"
"I believe he has."
"Ah, ha. Can you deny your part in allowing this farce and blatant lie to be perpetrated on the American
people?"
"My vote did not cause this. I did so in good faith. I could not see the results."
"Citizen, are you aware of a nickname the President has acquired over the years?"
"I believe so."
"Would you tell the court, please, what that nickname is?"
"Objection, Your Honor."
"Objection overruled. Tell the court, Citizen."
"Tricky Dick."
"No more questions, Your Honor."
"Counsel for the Defense, do you wish to address the Court?"
"Yes, Your Honor. My client acted in good faith without foreknowledge or expectation of the turn of events to occur."
"Are you aware that ignorance is no excuse for misdeeds in the eyes of the law?"
"Yes, we are, Your Honor."
"Mr. Prosecutor."
"Your Honor, the Defendant, Citizen, has not denied the act of voting for Richard Milhous Nixon and has claimed ignorance
as to the results of that act even while admitting that he knows the nickname which condemns both Citizen and
Mr. Nixon. I see no choice but conviction and the severest of penalties."
"Court is adjourned for deliberation. All rise for the pledge."
"I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the Subjected States of America, and to the tyranny for which it stands,
a divided nation, under Nixon, with liberty and forgiveness for the few."

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters to the editor on any subject. Letters placed in THE DAVIDSONIAN office by 6 p.m., Monday
will ordinarily be printed that week. Anonymous letters cannot be accepted for publication. Letters must be typed, and they cannot
exceed 300 words in length.
