Students Say President Needs More Contact Around Campus
By JIM PAULSEN
Contributing Editor

After interviewing approximately 25 students in research of their opinions of President Spencer, two conclusions are evident. First, many students
interviewed were reluctant to talk about President Spencer and second, a large number of those questioned knew very little or
nothing about him or his policies. Only two students wished to have their names attached to their opinions. Many others
of those interviewed answered by saying either, "I don't know what he does," or "I don’t know anything about his
policies."

One sophomore expressed his lack of information in this way, "Spencer's activities seem to be a bit nebulous to me.
He doesn't arouse my ire like Bevan and Burts who have policies which are at least tangible. Maybe I am
not up on Spencer, and I am not informed on his policies."

Kevin James advanced a possible reason for the lack of student knowledge of Spencer. "I think President Spencer is very
much a behind-the-scenes worker. People like Bevan get more credit, but I am sure he is actively involved in formulating
all policies," he said.

One of the most frequent criticisms of Spencer was his lack of good student contacts. "My impression of him is
that he is probably very effective in raising funds, but on the campus he is too distant from the students,"
said an upperclassman. Another student said, "I question whether he really knows the concerns of students and his contacts with
students are minimal. He is open to students’ suggestions, but what happens after the suggestion stage? In general, however, he
does a commendable job."

Expanding on the idea of student contacts, one coed said that Spencer "could stand a better rapport with the coeds,
but it has been the first year. It will take time to get better contacts. The best he could do
was make the transition he did, but hopefully next year more programs with him will be initiated," she said.

Very few opinions were expressed on specific policies of President Spencer. "I think his policy of 'Any Questions' is good
and I hope that students will take advantage of it," said Richie Williams. One student advanced a strong criticism of
President Spencer's policies. "He came from a girls’ school and I think he tried to make a girls’ school out
of Davidson. He tried to do away with fraternities, football and has brought girls here. I would have been happier
if he had stayed at the girls’ school," he said.

Speaking in general on President Spencer's performance, one student said, "Dr. Spencer seems to do a good job of compromising
different interests of the college. A lot of times he acts a little independently, but mostly he is open to
both student and faculty needs and interests. He is a symbol of the college. He is a very eloquent speaker
that makes you proud that he is the president of Davidson College. He is very much a part of the
Davidson tradition," said James.

Administrators
By MICHAEL TANNER
Managing Editor

The three alumni sat leisurely on the steps of the Union last Saturday and reminisced. One of them seemed to
be especially taken back by the changes that he insisted the college had undergone since he left (in 1967). "This
place has completely changed since he's been here," he said. He was talking about Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer
Jr.

Has Davidson changed in the four years since Spencer arrived? The best answer to this question came from the two
men who together personify the change that has taken place under Spencer: Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan,
and Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell. According to Cornell, the mere fact that both he and
Bevan are here is evidence of the current of change that accompanied, and was partially effected by, Spencer. Bevan stated
that his presence on this campus is indicative of a trend to streamline the administration in an effort to cope
with the heightened pace of running the college. Bevan and Cornell outlined three major trends in the complexion of the
college and its operation during the Spencer years which represent a...

Faculty Express Varied Opinions Concerning Spencer's Presidency
By HUGH MOORE
Contributing Editor

With obvious reluctance, faculty members recently expressed their opinions of College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. The opinions of the
members contacted differed substantially from individual to individual, although ambivalent feelings toward Spencer were frequently encountered.

For instance, Drama Professor Rupert T. Barber Jr. said, "Dr. Spencer is seemingly sympathetic to the cause of the arts
at Davidson, but we do not have the new staff member whom our department needs." Art Professor Larry L. Ligo
also sees Spencer as a supporter of the arts, "He is receptive to the Art Department at Davidson, a department
which was once a black sheep. This is a move in the right direction."

However, speaking in more general terms, Ligo said, "I don’t think he plays his cards well as a president. I
think he has good things to offer, but he needs to offer them diplomatically. He has a tendency to push
his programs through. An example is the hiring of Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell and the
elevating of Dean of Students Will Terry," he said.Also in a difficult spot when it comes to making innovations. If
he moves too fast, the alumni are displeased. If he moves too slow, the faculty and students are. “I think
he’s doing a good job, but he could be doing a better one,” Ligo concluded. Another faculty member, name withheld
by request, seemed to agree. “He's done some things right, and he’s done some things wrong,” he said. “Spencer does
have a poor relationship with the faculty. The best symptomatic issue is that of whether or not the president should
consult the faculty before making decisions,” he said. President Emeritus D. Grier Martin consulted the faculty; Sam does not always
do this.”

Professor of Philosophy Earl R. MacCormac also sees problems in Spencer's relationship with the faculty. “I think there's a gap
between the two,” he said. MacCormac declined to specify the causes of this situation. He did say that the president's
job is becoming more and more one of fundraising rather than academic leadership. “It's sad that this is the case,
but it’s inevitable,” he said. Only the president can do some of the important large-scale fundraising, MacCormac indicated.

On the other hand, Professor of Education Jay H. Ostwalt emphasized that the president is still responsible for the entire
program. “He has got to know what's going on everywhere,” Ostwalt said. “The academic quality of the institution should be
a basic concern of the president. I think this has been neglected somewhat. Fundraising may be overly emphasized,” added Ostwalt.
Speaking on the relationship between the faculty and the president, Ostwalt said, “I don’t think that the faculty's strengths are
used as much as they could be, but I do not think that the president has stepped in and taken
faculty prerogatives.”

Professor of Biology Donald L. Kimmel praised Spencer, “He's been very supportive to me in changing some emphases in the
department. I have a good, easy relationship with him. If there's one criticism I have, it is that I wish
he knew more details about the academic program, particularly in regard to pre-medicine.”

The Davidsonian
May 4, 1973
Page Seven

SYMBOL

More women, larger student body, larger library, significant break with the past. First, both men felt that a shift in
emphasis had taken place, to an attitude which regards Davidson as a part of the national community, being forced to
deal with the outside world much more so than in the past, and change with it. Bevan cited as examples
of this, the modification of the fraternity system, the institution of the Honors College and its spirit of program flexibility
which is very much in vogue in higher education today. Cornell acknowledged this shift and cited as his examples, the
greater concern that his staff has recently shown in matters of alumni and public relations and the potential strengthening of
the college through these channels.

The second trend of the Spencer years deals with the actual operation of the college. As Bevan said, “Out of
necessity, we have adopted a more aggressive attitude of doing things in recent years, especially in terms of policy decisions.
Coeducation, the Blue Sky program, and what Cornell called ‘the systematic planning of the future physical layout’ exemplify this pattern,
one in which important decisions were made at the instant that they were needed, and not put off to stew
and complicate as had been the pattern before Spencer came to Davidson.”

Finally, Spencer's appointment of Bevan and Cornell is seen by the two men as an attempt to coordinate the academic
and the nonacademic constituencies of the college to better complement each other. “A perfect example of this is the rise
in faculty salaries and the projection of better facilities, both made possible by the efforts of a professional.”

(See SPENCER, Page 12)
