LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

ROTC Curriculum Defended, Third Degree Murder Scorned

To the Editor:

I address these remarks to the editorial comment on ROTC in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN. The article maintained that academic credit should not be given for ROTC because “much more of it is vocational rather than academic in nature.” This argument is faulty for two reasons.

First, it is untrue, for the policy in the Army ROTC “Program of Instruction” booklet dictates that vocational instruction will not be emphasized and that it should serve only as a meaningful background for the academic curriculum. As an ROTC cadet, this has been my experience. Furthermore, the ROTC curriculum provides no technical training in any job specialty. Rather, it is designed to develop talents in leadership, management, and organization, talents which are invaluable in any civilian career.

Secondly, the argument becomes humorously inconsistent in the light of plans by Prof. R. Kincaid “to explore new ways to give our students vocational experiences before they graduate from college.”

The final point to which I offer rebuttal is the idea that there is an inconsistency in including military science in the curriculum of our college because we profess a Christian commitment. Is being a Christian synonymous with being a conscientious objector? To some people, it may be, but to many others, undoubtedly the majority of our nation’s citizens, it is not. Without this point, I cannot see how ROTC interferes with our Christian goals. After all, it can be validly argued that it is partly thanks to “the arts of warfare” that we still possess the freedom to commit ourselves to the Christian faith. Moreover, I find excellent examples of the kind of Christian commitment to which our college catalogue refers in the officers of our ROTC department.

Does ROTC have a place in the curriculum at Davidson? After a close look, I believe it does.

Arn Eliasson ’75
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I was deeply impressed by Dr. Palmer’s words in the faculty guest column of the Oct. 12 edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN. It sparked a reaction that is long overdue and which has been long in the gestation. I quote from his column a small piece from which my reaction initiates: “Somewhere we, as predecessors, have done you, as students, a grave disservice. We have given you the message, sometimes openly and sometimes unwittingly, that your worth was a matter of degree.”

The degree of which Dr. Palmer speaks is, for Davidson students, the MA and/or the Ph.D. Those students who plan to climb the slopes to those degrees receive, in general, encouragement and reinforcement. But those of us who, for many reasons, do not plan graduate work are left to defend our self-respect against the arrogance and apathy of the faculty, the majority of which hold Ph.D.’s.

There is much danger here in generalizations. Indeed, I would do a grave disservice to the many faculty members here who are genuinely interested in the student as he relates to a specific classroom. For this interest, all students should be grateful. But there still remains an overriding feeling for those of us not planning graduate work that we are getting the short end of the stick.

I have a question to put to the faculty. It need not be answered audibly, but I implore truthfully. The question is this: Do you feel that every advisee, whether he is a prospect for graduate school or not, is worth your time and effort? To reward with attention and approval students planning graduate work and to punish students not planning graduate work is not only a disservice to those not planning graduate work, but also, and to perhaps a greater degree, it is a disservice to the marginal student who is so impressionable in his early years at Davidson.

Something like 75 percent of Davidson graduates go on to graduate school. One wonders what the percentage would be were it not for the system of rewards and punishments which has been set up here. One wonders how many Davidson graduates who go to graduate school really want to go to graduate school, and how many are railroaded into it by pressures of the system. I have resisted the pressures here at Davidson in the belief that somewhere, someone, on the outside at least, will be interested not in my degree, but in me and my worth in its own right.

P. Kent Nearing '74
Davidson College

TODD EADES

The Davidsonian
October 19, 1973

Five

“The Hours Are Long, The Pay Is Nil”

Campus Tax Council Allocates Funds For ‘Quips And Cranks’

I feel obliged to clarify the relationship between the Quips and Cranks and the Campus Tax Council. All chartered student organizations and certain other activities such as the Performing Arts Series...are funded by Campus Tax. Traditionally meeting only several times in the spring to divide up the student activities fee, Campus Tax has never believed it possessed the responsibility and power to police these organizations to ensure proper management of funds. Exactly how student organizations spend their money after it has been allocated to them has not been the concern of Campus Tax.

The effects of Campus Tax’s actions on the annual are only those created by the amount of money budgeted to the annual. Perhaps there are other effects created by the peculiar circumstances in which the process of funding the annual finds itself, but I cannot see any. The editor of Quips and Cranks is elected in January. He is not elected "with" a budget; indeed, he has four months to devise a budget and present it to Campus Tax in April or May. The concept of incremental budgeting plays an important part here, for the budget is based largely on the previous year’s total, which is then usually increased. The previous year’s budget provides a "ballpark" figure for the editor to work with. But only after Campus Tax has authorized a budget for the annual can the editor make definite plans. He still has four months before school begins in September for revised planning.

The essential problem of the annual regarding financing is that the editor is elected and begins to plan his book several months before he knows exactly how much money he will have. There are two obvious solutions: elect the editor in the spring or have Campus Tax meet earlier in the year. Aside from causing a special election, electing the editor in the spring will decrease planning time. Making Campus Tax meet to allocate funds earlier in the year creates problems for other organizations, forcing them to budget their activities a year and a half in advance, which is rather unreasonable. It is not possible to fund the annual at one time, say in the winter, and fund other organizations at another time, say in the spring. Campus Tax has a limited amount of funds, which are divided among the various groups. The sum of the requests always exceeds the amount of money available, so some cutting must be done. This cutting is not arbitrary or indiscriminate, but is closely tied to the amount of requests of all the groups. Although Campus Tax would prefer to grant every group's total request, some reductions are necessary, and an attempt is made to make these reductions as equitable among the groups as possible. To do this, all requests must be considered at the same time.

As it now stands, Campus Tax meets near the end of the school year, which corresponds to the end of the fiscal year for most student organizations. This makes it possible for funds to be available immediately when school resumes in the fall. This system has many advantages and is not the source of the current problem. Determining how much money the annual should receive poses several problems. There has been a general decline of student interest in the annual, a phenomenon reflected by the reduction of the annual’s budget in recent years. Prior to this reduction, annuals were funded in the $16,000 area. This year’s annual was allocated $9500. Beyond student discontent with such an expensive annual, there has been a growing question about the purpose of the annual and whether it can achieve this purpose with its present format. Another reason for reductions in the annual's budget has been the appearance of new student organizations desirous and worthy of funds from Campus Tax. When the student activities fee is raised to provide Campus Tax with more money, funds for these new groups must be "found" by reducing the budgets of the old organizations. These reductions are incremental from year to year. Organizational budgets are never reduced during the year once the allocation is made. Dealing specifically with last year’s annual, one of the reasons for the reduction of its budget in comparison to the year prior was the increase in WDAV's budget to provide funds for conversion to FM. The questions of how much money the annual should receive, how much money students are willing to pay for an annual, and what should be the format of the annual are still unresolved. If you have any suggestions to answer these questions, I and many others would like to know. I am presently the student co-chairman of the Campus Tax Council.

Don’t Send Troops

A group of Davidson College employees and students have started a petition drive protesting the possible involvement of American troops in the Middle East conflict. The group, the Committee For Non-Involvement In the Middle East, began circulating petitions throughout the community on Wednesday. On Friday, all the petitions will be collected and mailed to President Nixon as a protest against any such escalation of U.S. involvement.