Preparatory Interviews Let Pre-Meds Practice

By HUGH MOORE
Staff Writer

Last spring the Premedical Committee began giving junior majors practice interviews to prepare them for their encounters with medical school admissions committees. These majors, now seniors and undergoing the actual medical school interviews, are discovering the usefulness of these practice sessions.

“The feedback is that it was worthwhile,” said Premedical Advisor James M. Fredericksen. The interviews’ purpose, he explained, is to acquaint the student with the question and answer situation which he soon will be put into at the medical schools. Although not its primary purpose, the practice interview can also be used by the Premedical Committee in the writing of recommendations of the potential medical student.

Each student was interviewed by a committee of three, consisting of a member of the Premedical Committee, another faculty member, and a student. The questions asked the premedical major, Fredericksen said, are usually not technical but rather general questions on the student’s opinions, motivations, and extracurricular activities while at Davidson.

Fredericksen cited questions which asked the student his reasons for wanting to be a doctor and his opinion of socialized medicine as typical. Also included in the interview is the committee's advice to the student. “If a student's responses are weak in a certain area then we suggest he read something,” Fredericksen said.

Senior premedical majors Rob Peterson and Howard Nabors praised the practice interviews without reservation. “They helped me a whole lot because I wasn't up to par and they made suggestions,” Peterson said. “Also the questions they asked compared favorably with the questions asked in my interviews at Bowman Gray, Cornell, Duke, and Chapel Hill,” Peterson added. “It was definitely a big advantage.”

“There was even a more relaxed atmosphere than the actual interview,” Nabors said of the practice. “Every school's a different approach but they were asking the same questions.” Nabors was interviewed by Bowman Gray, Chapel Hill, and Duke. He has been accepted at Bowman Gray.

One senior Premedical major, Bruce Batten, however, complained that the committee that interviewed him gave him the wrong advice. “My interview was pretty shitty,” he said. “They were trying to force me down the path that they wanted. They told me how I should sit and what I should wear.” Batten suggested that the faculty members of the committee be better screened. “They should not just pick anybody,” he said.

Despite his own bad experience, Batten did say the basic idea of such preparatory interviews was good. “It's really a worthwhile experience,” he said. Thus far he has been interviewed by the Medical College of New Jersey at both Newark and Rutgers. “The interviews have gone well, better than the practice,” he said. “But I didn't take all of the committee's advice.”

Television Airs Citadel Game; Johnston Gym Site Of Contest

By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

Johnston Gym will be the site of the televised Southern Conference clash between Davidson and The Citadel tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. As part of their regionally broadcast “Game of the Week” series in college basketball, the coverage will be done by TVS Sports Network. “They usually do two or three games out of the conference each year,” said Director of Athletics Tom Scott.‘‘The South Carolina game was covered and we were supposed to have had the home Richmond game televised but the President's inauguration pre-empted that." When asked why the game was being played at home rather than at the Charlotte Coliseum, Scott replied that it was “mainly because of the draw we get for Southern Conference games.” He said that “If we played conference games at Charlotte, we wouldn't get very much of a crowd.” As to why the contest with The Citadel was being aired instead of some other Conference team, Scott pointed out that TVS only televised games on Saturday, and that this particular contest was the only choice.

Mechanically, the relay system will contain three cameras, one in the balcony, one at mid-court in the stands, and one directly on the floor. According to Engineering Supervisor Phillip Cashion, the signal from the cameras will go out to a relay truck, and from there to the top of Chambers via a three-phase (three hot and one neutral wire) cable. “With the construction of the new library, we had to run a new cable through the trees to Chambers because the old one had been cut,” said Cashion. On top of Chambers, two concave signal transmitters send the picture due south to Charlotte where it is picked up by the WSOC-TV receiving tower and broadcast.

The total cost of broadcasting rights which TVS pays to the host institution is “between $4500 and $5000” according to Scott. Out of that total, “the conference gets $500, our opponent gets $1000, and we get the rest,” Scott stated.

Page Three

The presentation consisted of a cross-section of the various types of projects in which the firm has been involved. Will Terry, dean of students, observed that this firm is just one of a total of 22 contacted. So far, 11 have expressed an interest in building some type of student housing. The set deadline for response is February 12, however, Terry noted that the interest displayed was “greater than expected.” The extent of response from various firms ranged from rather comprehensive overviews of projects completed in the past, to letters merely expressing an interest in designing a dorm. The Housing Committee's next step will be to look through submitted responses and narrow down the firms to be considered.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. suggested that since time was pressing, the committee should limit their decision to three architectural concerns. These three chosen firms will then be asked to submit rough drafts from which the committee will make a final determination. With the selection of three architects, a firm budget figure will be formulated on the basis of a per capita amount of money for estimated students that will live in the dorm. Robert Manning, professor of Physics, said that the dorms “have to be completed by the fall of 1974.” In any case, Terry expressed concern over building “the right kind of dorm.”

(Staff photo by Goodman)

CALENDAR CAUCUS
Bo Phillips, SGA President, meets with Dean of Students Will Terry and the Faculty Executive Committee to discuss possible calendar changes for next year.