GRAY WILSON

Five men playing with my black yack past fo pot nothin without at) and tn Another lite baek there nid tim Duke oat tome Deal facedown runbiny out Onnelette come Poremember it now Pwen Heth century sehizoid man shut fling across a 120 depree stave along with five others, doctor, lawyer, baker man, thet dead man. Take your pick But I had already chosen. when I felt the fever of those last warm SPF months. that Goatee High Was~boring, when those underclassmen in “letter jackets got just a little bit silly, when it looked like there might be more than a car eight feet off the ground and a driver’s license and that life could go on in between football seasons. When I thought there might be more but was not sure I just sat back and let the devil cut the deck. The first thing he turned up was that first bizarre encounter with Davidson. The arrival: you discover that studying, bags, and beer (or dope, if you go in for heavy-duty nostalgia) are serious business. But no danger here. Whe that to the just re beautiful past traveds looks eh ane Bul trustration grows and van LO homie Ghout tive MeCCKS Into the first term oa haneed With two sets of an reviews and papers stuffed inte vour se1ence Family smiles, treats you like King Farouk--so proud you haven't died, so proud you are at such a fine school with such fine gentlemen getting such a fine education. So proud your ears are clean. And you are caught with your money down, though you stand there bloated with five weeks of hatred, resentment, loneliness, fatigue, disgust, shame, and despair that have been waiting con for an opportunity such as this to emerge. Radiant with self-knowledge, however, you turn face them like a Greek chorus when they prod you with “Well, how do you like it down there?” and you choke with pathos at your newfound capacity for deceit: “Oh, uh, great. Yes, that’s it, yes.

Outside Perspective
By LEX VEAZEY

Duke Authorizes Borrowing for Aid

Last week, the Executive Committee of the Duke University Board of Trustees approved a plan under which the university would borrow substantial funds for student financial aid. Duke would borrow this money from its endowment as well as from commercial banks. The funds would then be passed on as loans to students who would absorb the interest on the loans in their own payments. Guy Solie, special assistant to Duke President Terry Sanford, explained that the university needs these additional funds for financial aid, or “it will become a school for rich people who can afford it, or for poor people who are subsidized.” Solie pointed out that the amount of funds generated for financial aid through gifts has been fairly “constant” and therefore inadequate to meet rising costs.

Great is the only word. Yes. Can't wait to get back. Yes. But nevertheless you wait. The shadows grow when you seek out old friends. The pretty girl who somehow got to part with and her visa with a stamp. It never came. She waits, but seems smaller now and her voice sounds strangely more nasal than before. Why does she speak this way? She has died in your memory, and mourning finally blows a fuse. You leave with her face inside you nothing more than flowers on a grave. Other friends dying too, but not yet. The horror of not knowing makes innocence a cheap game, but now the only thing you can hear is a slow ticking. Best Buddy Funny has not changed, but he can tell that you will so he takes his auto mechanics elsewhere and prefers to drink his Rolling Rock with Madam Frizz. There was one old classmate who had trouble thinking, captain of the football team, and he also made it to college, though you can’t remember the name of it. The class fairy with straight A's and two 3's he went to Duke. He's real happy there, you hear. The sensitive plant that was always going bananas over the wrong girls made it to UNC where he studies psychology. And the guy who hated studying more than abstinence in high school volunteered for a free trip to Southeast Asia rather than go to State. My God, even now I don't blame him. Still, things have not changed. Life at home has not crumbled, and except for a ghost in the halls you keep running into you would not have given your own absence a thought. You are suddenly proud that you are a member of a group who spends four years pretending they are not a part of the real world. What of those nameless faces smiled at but not known back in high school? By the time you meet in a laundromat somewhere the attempt to conceal will

AWAITING DECISIONS

Fred Erickson and John Bevan confer with a Bowman Gray representative about the early acceptance of Davidson students to Bowman Gray Medical School. Decisions are expected by the end of the week.

The Davidsonian March 9, 1973 Page FiveEdge

It grows subtler with age. Now I fear, three years later, I take the cards, but only in time to notice the three close friends at Das are all gone. The first flunked out and went to play soldier in South Carolina just about the time he had come to terms with himself. He could cut cards with one hand. Another left to find euphoria at Vassar, only to end up looking for America in a Winston-Salem floral shop. The third works in a factory that he gets up for every morning at daybreak. He says he wants to be back next year. He says, "Hell of a bridge player." But what those five playing blackjack over my corpus amucRus. I found they were all gone last weekend. Funny gave up S-K Wayne and 3-in-One oil to get married. Now he drinks his Rolling Rock every other night. The Jock? He never even played another game. College football talked his knees out of it while talking the army out of him. At least he won't waste his son on life's blackjack. All Things Must Fold with a Gillette. He got scared when it got pinky-white and shredded like bean sprouts, so he called the ER. But then he kept on sawing until they found him dipped all sticky up to his elbows like a candy apple. He is in white now, cooling. And the boy who ran off to enlist sits in a wheelchair in a VA hospital in Jacksonville, Florida. He brought more than a medal back from Thailand. His parents write letters of hope that he will walk again one day. There is none. These things do not bother after being away for three years. They are too distant, conjured only when the college veneer cracks. For no man can hold it all within him, neither the joy nor the terror. You can stand at half-mast mouthing tomorrow like it was a Boeing 707, but there is a time when all things must fold. No man can hold it all.

Voluntary Chapel Fits College Needs
By BROWN PATTERSON
Professor of History

In his ‘Studies in Classic American Literature,’ D. H. Lawrence argued that men are deceived when they think they will find freedom in some distant land across the sea, or in some Wild West still unspoiled by civilization. Men find freedom, he said, by belonging to “a living, organic, believing community, active in fulfilling some unfulfilled, perhaps unrealized purpose.” Davidson probably fits Lawrence's description reasonably well. As difficult as it may be to define, there is some discernible purpose to our common life together in this collection of brick buildings underneath the pines. As a community, we believe quite a lot. The heritage of Greece, Rome, Israel, and the Christian Church can still be felt as a living presence--and not just in the Humanities course. There is, however, one thing that we lack, and its absence in a community such as this has puzzled me for some time. Back in the unreformed early ‘60s, the college had required daily chapel and Sunday Vespers. Very often these services lacked the quality of true devotion. There was one occasion on which a student, seemingly struck unconscious by the force of something a speaker had said, was passed overhead from hand to hand until he disappeared out of sight at the rear of the auditorium. When a movement to do away with compulsory chapel got underway, I was happy to support it. But what I did not understand then, and still do not understand, is why there shouldn't be a voluntary college service for those who want to attend. The local churches do, of course, attempt to include students in their activities. But there has not been for many years a regular college service, related to the concerns of students, faculty, and staff, and expressing something of the commitment and common purpose of this community. Those who have not experienced the deep satisfaction of such worship have missed a great deal. In a book on the subject of church-sponsored higher education, Manning Pattillo says that the best church college “surrounds its students with opportunities for full development--intellectual, religious, moral, artistic, social.” By not making an opportunity for worship available, the college has hardly fulfilled the kind of program Pattillo describes. Yet there are many students here who want a service of worship and many others who might respond to the opportunity if it were available. We have about a dozen ordained faculty members, any one of whom could conduct a service of worship. There are a number of local clergymen who are interested in working with students. There are many dedicated laymen with special skills to contribute to a religious service. In addition, the Davidson College Presbyterian Church and Lingle Chapel are conveniently located on the campus. There are student musical and dramatic groups which might welcome a chance to participate. Local choirs, black as well as white, could be invited for special occasions. All the ingredients seem to be here. The YMCA even has a committee working on plans for a campus-wide service. Can't we begin soon?