Page Six September 14, 1973 The Davidsonian

Otey Takes Student Chaplain Position
By ALAN FORD
Asst. Features Editor

In an upstairs office of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church (DCPC) sits a new addition to the church, the town, and the college. He is Rush Otey, the new Minister to Students and Assistant Minister of the DCPC. Although a staff member of the DCPC, Otey is also in effect the new College Chaplain.

When the position of College Chaplain was left vacant with the departure of Scott Woodmansee a little less than two years ago, the college decided to reevaluate the position. The college then decided to give a sum of money to DCPC with which to hire a Minister to Students. Otey is the first to hold that position.

Otey’s position in the church also gives him a basis for community work that College Chaplains often lack. He will be working with the other churches in the community in the planning of community worship services and worship services of a non-denominational nature.

In addition to working as Assistant Minister of DCPC, Otey will be involved in a host of other activities. As Minister to Students, Otey will be available for counseling and small group discussion and/or study groups such as with dorm halls. He is co-advisor of the Davidson Y along with Professor Dan Rhodes. Otey will also work with Dean of Students Will Terry, but will not be connected with either the college administration or faculty.

Otey will head a community volunteer program in work with the Huntersville Prison Unit and will work to make the Y Depot a community project. “I would like to set inoculation clinics at the Depot and start a healthy baby clinic. I would also like to see a program to feed the elderly of the town started through the Depot,” Otey said.

Otey’s work will include worship services on campus for the students which will also be open to all members of the community. Otey would also like to help promote better understanding between townspeople and students, and between various groups of people in the town. “There are serious divisions in the town in terms of education and economics,” Otey stated. “A lot of people are afraid of the college professors and of the students. And a lot of the students are afraid of the townspeople.” He added, “I hope this changes, because I don’t think we have to fear each other.”

Otey hopes to start making improvements in these areas through more community projects and get-togethers such as the Fourth of July watermelon party on the town green. Since his arrival in May, Otey and his family have been impressed with the friendliness of both the townspeople and the students. He, his wife Lilith, and son Benjamin look forward to getting to know students and townspeople and doing their part to make the members of the community take a little more pride in each other.

Davidson Relationships Show Need For More Self-Respect
By MARY HOBBIE

As Davidson starts down the road of coeducation, there are many problems that we face as a community. These problems are not necessarily problems of male-female relationships but are problems of person-to-person interaction. This column is written to share some thoughts on this interaction.

The scene takes place on a small southern college campus. A young male student sits on a stone bench beneath an old tree. Seated beside him is a young female (transfer) student. She is a transfer from a women’s college in (pick one) Virginia, North Carolina, Maryland, or Georgia. The boy turns to her and says:

He: You must really be nervous.
She: (startled) Nervous? About what?
He: About starting classes here....It’ll be so hard for you.

Phillips Favors New Governance Goals
By MARK DEATON
Managing Editor

ED NOTE: The following is an interview with SGA President Bo Phillips in which he discusses the issues he feels the Senate and student body must deal with this year.

Adopting a new system of governance, developing a more realistic attitude toward the Davidson football program, and adapting to a new scale of coeducation are three major problems which SGA President Bo Phillips sees confronting the SGA at present.

“I want to see a permanent standing committee on coeducation elected,” said Phillips. As proposed, this committee would handle problems related to housing and regulations. “It would essentially be a second grievance committee, only I hope it would be creative,” Phillips explained. “It is conceivable that hall counselors won't be able to handle certain situations.” The SGA president stressed the need for freshmen to work on this committee.

Speaking on governance, Phillips said, “The governance situation has been a headache for years.” He favors a new governance system which would give students dominance on the Student Life Committee (SLC), input on the budget and admissions committees, and some jurisdiction over educational policy. “We also need more coordination of all campus activities.” He indicated that organizations such as the College Union Board, the Social Council, and Co-Curricular Council maintained very loose ties with the SGA until they ran into trouble.

“I feel that the Union Board has mismanaged their money,” said Phillips. “I don’t feel that they have been as responsible to the student body as they should be. The SGA, as Nixon would say, hasn't been as vigilant as we should have been,” Phillips admitted. He could cite no specific examples of mismanagement of...funds by the Union Board, but indicated that SGA Senator Vince Rabil is currently auditing the books of the College Union. “I think we're going to be able to wrap up the question of athletics with our goals achieved very soon,” Phillips said optimistically. “I am confident that at the Oct. 26 meeting, the Trustees will endorse a policy of football scholarships awarded on the basis of need only.”

“I think we'll be scaling down our scheduling and moving to a whole new program,” he commented. “To me, it’s a lot more important to the guys playing and to the other Davidson students that our football team gets out there and wins occasionally rather than try to beat Air Force. I don’t think we're de-emphasizing football, we're just being realistic,” Phillips added.

While admitting that the scaling down of football would probably save Davidson little money except in scholarship savings, he speculated that the minor sports at Davidson which presently receive no subsidization would benefit. “The SGA will also be working to institute night exam periods, examine the grading system at Davidson, and implement other programs which are strictly services for the students,” Phillips indicated.

He expressed interest in seeing the grade “F” dropped from the students’ transcripts. “I think the ‘F’ should be noted - the student’s lost the course credit - but I don’t think he should be further penalized by having the ‘F’ added to his grade point average,” Phillips explained. “This wouldn't change graduation requirements,” he said.

Phillips also indicated that letters had been sent to 150 schools across the country to determine the policies on grading at other institutions. “We'll be working closely with the National Student Association this year,” said Phillips. He explained that the NSA was a massive student caucus with a legal corporate identity where student leaders could discuss common problems and trade ideas.

The SGA president indicated that he hoped to involve Davidson in the nationwide boycott of Gallo Wines. “I hope to have a fund-raising drive for multiple sclerosis,” Phillips continued. “I think we need to do some things like this to help get us out of a strict monastic role.”

He indicated that he expected no further consideration of a student activities car. “To be frank, we buried the issue last year. Bevan put up the money, but we said ‘no’.” Phillips cited problems with insuring the car as the reason for abandoning the project. “It’s not a dead issue, but it’s not a major problem either,” Phillips commented. “Unless I perceive a new need for a car, I’m not going to push the issue,” he said.

In examining the role of the SGA at Davidson, Phillips commented, “We're still essentially a lobby, and sometimes we're a little activities club for amateur politicians to play games.” Phillips mentioned that the Senate would be attempting to work with Meredith Hall to promote better communication among the senators and improve Senate efficiency. “Student government is serious business; it’s not a joke,” Phillips stressed. “It’s often confusing and often ridiculous.”

“The Senate has little to do with the final things that get done in the name of students. I don’t look to Senate meetings as the high point of the week. It’s in doing the work that we report to the Senate that is really important,” Phillips concluded.

After what you were used to last year, she: (pick one) A-laughs uproariously; B-pushes him off the bench; C-sighs in a Scarlett O’Hara manner and murmurs, “Oh yes, I'm just frightened to death!”

The point that all Davidson students should agree on is that scenes of this type are degrading to both persons involved. The dialogue shows a lack of respect for another person. From the male point of view, the girl's assumption that he wants her to be empty-headed is an insult to his maturity and intelligence. From the girl’s point of view, his assumption that her education at a woman's college was inferior compared to the one she might receive here at Davidson is an insult to her previous academic achievements. We should not (even by silence) accept an intellectual put-down which asks us to throw away a part of our self-respect. Once thrown away, this self-respect is hard to regain.

The college experience is supposed to be one in which the student ‘finds himself.’ At the very least, each individual should learn in his four years at college to value his or her own lifestyle, own personality, and own intelligence. I keep thinking of Aretha Franklin's old record RESPECT - corny, maybe, but true. Perhaps the best and hardest lesson for any of us to learn is that we all need and want respect from others. More important, however, we must learn not to hold ourselves cheap. Don’t let yourself - your brain, your personality, your moral standards, maybe, be taken away from you by the desire to be Joe or Jane College. Be yourself, don’t be an ass about it, but be proud.

The basic point I'm trying to make is that there is a crying need in all of us in the Davidson community (student, faculty, whatever) for this respect. This is the most important part of person-to-person relationships. The greatest gift you can give yourself is an equal amount of that respect. If Davidson students would try to look on themselves, their classmates (male or female), and their professors with this respect, not only coeducation but the health of the college itself will be enhanced.