GRAY WILSON The Davidsonian January 19, 1973 Page Five

Nonentities Shall Inherit The Campus

The following is a dialogue of self and squid, signifying, perhaps, something. Two students meet in front of Chambers, the younger (Y) on his way to the library, the older (O) on his way to Mexico and oblivion. In violation of the Davidson tradition of not speaking, which followed the older tradition of greeting everyone you met on campus, these two usher in a new tradition and hurl maledictions at each other in passing.

O: Stupid freshman.
Y: Pompous senior.
O: Going to the ‘brary, I suppose?
Y: What's it to you, shriveling dotard?
O: Nothing. (Whimper-like)
Y: Where to, Cosmos? (Y pressing his gambit)
O: What's it to you, squid? (Sharp, pithy retort)
Y: Nothing, Storvit. I just hate to see you waste away.
O: I have wasted until now.
Y: Huh? Davidson has given you everything, your education, friends, social---
O: It has taken everything. My pride, my money, my social life, and delayed my education which you know so little about.
Y: But you ignore all the great changes which have transpired in the past three years (enter Dylan), changes which inspired me to enroll here.
O: Like what, your scumship?
Y: Well, what about the Honors College?
O: It is a haven for students of exceptional ability.
Y: And coeducation?
O: Institutionalized mediocrity; a braless hoax.
Y: The new social system?
O: A court built of scales, founded on the great bleeding Aorta and perplexed by administrative Grades of “D,” “NC.”
Y: Well, what about the Black Student Coalition? It's a social group just three years old.
O: An organization holed up in Dingle Manor whose members have yet to realize that their frustration with Davidson has nothing to do with the fact that they are black.
Y: Huh, you are a bigot.
O: And you are a young fool, armed with labels.
Y: Okay, if you are so open-minded, can you name one thing you like, really like, about Davidson?
O: Sure. I like the nonentity.
Y: The what?
O: The nonentity. The student who refuses to accept Davidson on any but his own terms, mildly speaking, and who goes ahead and gets an education regardless. He is rarely heard, like a third trumpet in the pep band, but he manages to have a more meaningful life at Davidson than the N. Fellows or Who's Who. He plays intramural sports but is not a jock; he has a girlfriend but no one knows her name. He studies but he does not cram. He learns but he does not make good grades. He will speak up in class, but he will not be baited for a few gratuitous browns.
Y: Wait a minute. Now we're back to education, only this time you're laying into the faculty.
O: But they are so much like students. They are often childish. They set the poor standards behind every grade they give. They reward mediocrity, encourage false modesty, resent individuality. In one Humes group I was in a couple of years ago, the professor had a little seating chart with everyone’s name, next to which he would always place a + every time somebody could handle a question like “Who wrote HAMLET?” It’s academic crucifixion.
Y: Well then, how are students guilty?
O: Because they usually answer such a question as that, at least by the third try. I have only known four or five professors in my career who did not let grades reflect their relationship with the student. These professors were so impartial that people came to enjoy going by to visit them since they knew that their friendship was just an added benefit.

According to the present academic regulations at Randolph-Macon College, “any student receiving a D is allowed to have it changed to NC by signing a request slip in the Recorder’s Office... A grade of NC is not recorded on the student’s permanent academic record.” At the last faculty meeting, it was moved that students no longer be permitted to drop grades of D and NC from their records. Members of the faculty who favor this motion argue that a record from which D’s and NC’s have been removed is not an honest record. These faculty members insist that a student who has, through laxity or incapacity, earned a grade of D or NC should accept the effect upon his record as the result of his own choices, actions, and capabilities. They argue that the privilege of dropping D’s and NC’s has encouraged irresponsibility and generally has lowered standards at Randolph-Macon. Faculty members who oppose the motion to record all NC’s and D's argue that the present system enables more exploration of courses outside the field in which the student excels and therefore encourages the broadening of intellectual horizons. If D’s and NC’s were revoked, a student would be penalized permanently for a foray into a field in which he is insecure.and not an ingredient of their final evaluation. If students could only resist the temptation to play pedant, Davidson might once again orient its education around the classroom.

Y: That's a pretty negative capability.

O: I applaud negative capability. I see it in those who make C's in courses where they deserve an A every time. The most brilliant students at Davidson, in my experience, have had only average records. They are intellectual, quick, highly perceptive, and totally disgusted with the classroom farce. On the other hand, your grade jocks are narrow, defensive, slow, petty, pompous, and very concerned with impressing upon others the extent of their knowledge, which is one-sided, irrelevant, and only vaguely witty. These are the kind of guys who value their graduate school transcripts more than understanding, hot air more than the truth. These are the people who encapsulate their education into inane questions such as “Does Brahma wear levis?" or "Was Shakespeare anti-Semitic?" with only a cursory knowledge of the subject. They view the world around them like a huge candy apple, but they approach it with the maturity of a can of spam.

Y: Then what is your solution, O Socrates?

O: A purge? A revolution? You see, Alcibiades, I have no answer to that.

Y: But then, all most people end up with is four wasted years.

O: Yes. Except for the nonentity.

Y: And everyone else gets (shuddering with enlightenment) a diploma. That's all.

O: Well, there you have it.

Classics Article Defended, Hit

To the Editor:

There seems to be some little debate as to whether a student should use THE DAVIDSONIAN to publish his personal appraisal of a professor. Before Dirk French left for classical bliss he lambasted the associate editor Robert Touchton (Dec. 17, 1972) for just such a treatise. The main brunt of Mr. French’s criticisms focused on Touchton’s use of THE DAVIDSONIAN as he said: “the instrument for publicly excoriating a professor with whose pedagogical procedures he did not agree.” Touchton’s report was merely an evaluation; it made no pretense at revenge. As a participant in the 1972 Classics Abroad I can attest to the fact his remarks were well-founded and in the interest of THE DAVIDSONIAN readers. Excoriation on any level is the function of THE DAVIDSONIAN as a Mr. French will have to excuse me while I belittle him before the “whole forum of DAVIDSONIAN readers.” But since he has made use of this paper for the same offense he accuses Touchton, I have decided to jump into the act. And while I do not deny him the right of voice in this publication I am offended by his apparent contempt of criticism toward faculty members by students. It is time Davidson faculty members realized that their person is not sacrosanct on this campus. The fact they remain secure in a womb afforded by a coddling tenure system is little comfort to the student paying $3300 a year in his occasional disgust and dissatisfaction. French insists that one with an academic grievance should approach the recognized hierarchy. It so happens such approaches were made. Perhaps French took similar steps for his own case before he understood their futility. In the meantime THE DAVIDSONIAN remains a

To the Editor:

To publish Mr. Touchton's opinionated article on Classics Abroad as an “analysis” and to headline the article in such factual tones is both devious and deceiving. There was, furthermore, obviously very little forethought given to the article itself. As a member of Classics Abroad 1971, I would like to comment on Mr. Touchton’s objections and to offer some of my own observations about the Classics Abroad program. The Classics Seminar, by virtue of its location abroad, is subject to many variables that do affect the ordinary classroom courses that students. The objections that Mr. Touchton makes to the accommodations are both puzzling and contradictory. He complains of “exorbitant” prices in Olympia, where rooms with all conveniences, including showers, are only $3.25 per person in peak season June! Since returning to Italy and Greece this past summer, I have found George Labban quite competent in his ability to secure the most suitable accommodations for his group. Rooms were chosen on the basis of livability, economy, and proximity to points of study. There is no substitute for experience. Through his many trips abroad, Professor Labban has learned the best accommodations for his group. Our group was able to live quite comfortably in the rooms chosen and was quite happy spending seven dollars a day.

William H. Ryan '72

display through Feb. 4 in the Dwelle Gallery of the Mint Museum of Art. Joan Patten Rubbings of