Discussions, Speeches Mark ‘Changing Roles’ Symposium
By BETSY ALEXANDER
Contributing Editor

Davidson will host a symposium on “Changing Roles” on Feb. 27 and 28. The symposium will include speeches and an informal panel discussion with representatives from the areas of politics, education, and society. Speakers for the symposium will be Ann Scott, Washington lobbyist on feminist issues and civil rights; Warren Farrell, author of Beyond Masculinity and leader of men’s consciousness-raising groups; and Sissy Farenthold, the first woman to be nominated for Vice President of the United States.

Senator Sue Schmidt, as chairman of an SGA committee, conceived of and planned the symposium as a consciousness-raising experience for Davidson students and faculty. The focus of the symposium will not be specifically oriented toward the women’s lib movement, however. “Call it human liberation instead of women’s liberation,” said Schmidt. “Warren Farrell is the head of men’s liberation. We’re going to have people from three different kinds of areas, talking about one thing.”

The symposium grew out of a suggestion by Will Terry for a symposium on co-education. Ms. Scott is a columnist for “Ms. Magazine” and specializes in employment and educational discrimination. As a consultant to the Secretary of Labor, she was instrumental in the revision of Order No. 4 to include sex in the law that prohibits discrimination by federal contractors on the basis of race, color, or creed. She is also the author of...

European Book Blues Afflict Marburg Student
By DAVID HANIG
Staff Writer

How many times have you groaned when you went to the library only to discover that a book you needed for a paper was not to be found? You ain't heard nothing yet. Marburg University has a little less than two million volumes in its libraries. Chances are that almost any book you need is somewhere on the stacks. Your mission, Mr. Phelps, is to check that book out.

A twenty-minute walk from the main dormitory area is your first, and hopefully last, stop, a building which looks like an aluminum sugar cube. This building, the main university library, is where you will find the card catalogues and many of the books you need. One of the most disagreeable aspects of the library is that you are not allowed into the stacks. The card catalogues, therefore, assume an ungodly importance.

After showing your student identification card in order to enter the catalogue room, you want some books on a particular subject but do not know the specific books required; so you go to the index word catalogue. Let's say you're looking for books on the Soviet Union's farm policies. You look up ‘Soviet farm policy’ or, more indirectly, ‘Russia.’ If you look up “Soviet Union" or ‘collective farms,’ you will find a card referring you to the proper index word. These things must be done through proper channels.

On the proper card is a five or six-digit number. Armed with this number, you proceed to the subject catalogue where you look up the number. There you will find a card for each book pertaining to your chosen subject listing the author, title, place, and year of publication. The journey, however, is not yet at its end. Do you know where these books are? No. You stroll, therefore, across the room to the author catalogues. I say catalogues because there is one for books published before 1930 and another for those published after 1930; the dissertation catalogues are similarly divided.

In these catalogues, you will find a card for each copy of each book that the university owns. Many cards have red stamps on top which means that it is not in the main library, but in a departmental one. Unlike Davidson, each department runs its own library with its own budget and acquisition policies; the result is that the same book can often be found in the main library and five or six different departmental libraries. Usually, books from these libraries can only be checked out over weekends, and these books account for a distressingly large proportion of Marburg’s holdings.

If the card has no red stamp, you may check it out. To check a book out, you pick up a form on which you write the call number of the book and your name twice, the author, the title, place and year of publication of the book, today’s date, your major, your Marburg address, and your home address. You then drop the completed form into a box, whence it disappears into the bowels of the sugar cube. A half-hour later the book ought to be at the check-out desk, if it has not already been checked out by someone else. After showing your student ID card, you may pick it up and use it at your leisure for one month, as long as you go to the desk when it is open. That might sound strange, but the desk is only open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Thursday; it closes at 4:30 p.m. on Fridays. Only mice can be found there on weekends.

To give you some idea how long the whole process lasts, I spent two hours last week checking out four books on Goethe's “Faust.” After a while, these standards start to affect your mind. I once met an English student who was very busily checking out books written in Bulgarian, a language he could not even read. I asked him why, and smiling wanly, he answered, “Because it's there, I suppose.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

the tract. “Half-Eaten Apple,” an indictment of the Educational Establishment for discriminatory practices against women. Farrell is a member of the board of directors of the National Organization of Women (NOW), New York, and national coordinator of NOW’s Task Force on the Masculine Mystique. His consciousness-raising groups are widely acclaimed, and Farrell is a popular lecturer on the college circuit and a contributor to “Ms. Magazine.” Ms. Farenthold, assistant professor of Law at Texas Southern University, received 420 delegate votes at the National Democratic Convention, second only to Senator Thomas Eagleton. She ran for governor of Texas in 1972, accumulating 46 percent of the vote. She also serves on the Texas Advisory Committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, plus various other national and state commissions. The program of the symposium will begin Tuesday afternoon with an informal talk by Farrell, followed that night by Ms. Farenthold. Wednesday’s session will include an open panel discussion sponsored by the North Carolina Fellows, concluding that night with a speech by Ms. Scott. The symposium is sponsored by the SGA, the Activities Grant Fund, the N.C. Fellows, and the offices of Terry and Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. Commented Schmidt, “This is something the students need, but judging by the response we've had to other speakers on campus, I don't know whether they'll take advantage of it.”

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

The Davidsonian
February 16, 1973
Page Seven

‘Staff photo by Porter: A BIT OF OLDE SCOTLAND Jack Barbour shows how to play the bagpipes.

Bagpiper Serenades Sentelle Freshmen
By FRAZIER MARSH
Staff Writer

The other night while I was in my little bed in my little room, I was suddenly awakened to what George Bernard Shaw would call the “brandy of the damned.” The euphony of a bonnie bagpipe was penetrating my inner ear. I thought I had been swept back to my old Edinburgh. If it wasn't that, then the food from Slater was finally eating away my temporal lobe. I was in a deep state of confusion. I dashed to my window, opening it to find some poor misguided fellow on the green between Cannon and Sentelle playing what appeared to be a doodle-sack.

I had to find out what was happening. To my surprise, I found that the musician was no more than bonnie freshman Jack Barbour from Cannon E, serenading the laddies in Sentelle. Upon my question of why he was playing here, he answered, “for lack of anything else to play.”

“I began playing the ‘bags’ when I was nine. My father bought me a bagpipe for Christmas,” Barbour indicated. He is a second-generation Scottie. His father’s parents were both born in Scotland. Barbour said that people who think that the bagpipe is a difficult instrument to play are living under a misconception. “First you must learn to play the chanter, a recorder-type instrument,” he said. “One learns the fingering for the bagpipes from this. Then, you can move on to the pipes,” Barbour indicated. According to Barbour, one does not hyperventilate when playing. The bag is always filled with air. As a result, you always have a spare breath. He offered to give me a demonstration. I had to decline. The bagpipes are not my favorite instrument when heard from two feet away. They have a tendency to hurt my ears.

Rest Sweetly On Your Laurels
To the Editor:

The approval Wednesday by the Faculty Executive Committee of a split-term calendar for 1973-74 is a landmark of sorts, and merits praise to the student body and to the faculty. This action is a landmark because it proves not only that the faculty is an open-minded body who are receptive to change, but also because it caps off a constructive student “movement” and a conscientious drive by the student Senate. The faculty reaffirmed faith that they are willing to weigh various arguments about important issues, to deliberate, and subjectively to reach a solution which is viable for everyone, and not one catered to the desires of a single faction of the college community. I laud their open-mindedness, their willingness, and honesty to evaluate student opinion, and especially the result which they reached.

The student body, in addition, deserves nothing but praise for its continued interest in and pressuring for a change in the calendar. Those students who wrote letters to THE DAVIDSONIAN, who lobbied with faculty members, who voted in the referendum, and especially those who just generally raised a stink about the calendar—we can be proud of our efforts. For the past few weeks have proved that the students are recognized as intelligent beings and can effect change at Davidson College. I only hope that this method of solving a problem is not to be a one-of-a-kind occurrence. The various components of the Davidson College community have too much to offer one another and too much common sense not to realize that the most advantageous policy for all concerned can best be achieved only when each component is willing to listen to and to respect the opinions of the other components. Every faculty member, every administrator, and yes, every student here has a brain and therefore can and should be an integral part of policy formation at Davidson College. Let us only hope that we can work towards this end in the weeks and years that lie ahead.

Blain Butner ‘75
Davidson College