The Davidsonian
May 4, 1973
Page Three

Nixon Receives Little Sympathy Here
By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

Who was it that supposedly said "...but you can’t fool all of the people all of the time"? Oh, yeah,
it was the guy looking over his left shoulder during the President's speech on Monday night, a fact in which
Will Terry took "much comfort."

Nixon's speech and the whole Watergate affair was one of the major topics of conversation during the past few days
on the Davidson campus, as it undoubtedly was over most of the nation. But being a so-called academic community, THE
DAVIDSONIAN wanted to find out how its members thought on such an issue.

The student survey was the most diverse of the opinions received. Views ranged from statements like "I thought it was
horrendous—Nixon didn't make a conscientious effort to get at the bottom of the mess" to "I think he (Nixon) handled
it right by not avoiding the issue. Since he faced up to it, I respect him for it." Most of
the students felt however that Nixon had no knowledge of the incident at the time it happened, but were sure
that he had done some sort of covering up since then, and that his speech failed to clear him of
any implication in the scandal.

By far the most interesting set of responses were those given by the faculty and members of the administration. Professor
of Economics Ernest F. Patterson indicated that Nixon was "insulting the intelligence of the people for us to expect that
he was totally ignorant of what happened." Patterson also stated that "Nixon is known for his fast footwork, and he’s
slippery and eel-like in his opinions, beliefs, and philosophies. His whole past would lead him to attract people of a
low ethical nature who would naturally do this sort of thing."

"It was fairly reminiscent of his Checkers speech," continued Patterson, "in the way that he attempted to shift the emphasis
from Watergate to something else. He could have recited the Lord's Prayer and it still wouldn't have changed my mind
on the matter."

Professor of Political Science Winfred P. Minter thought that the Watergate affair "represented a failure in the President's leadership, since
he’s been so concerned with the mechanics of staying in office and appealing to the groups most likely to support
him, that he has overreacted to and misjudged the opposition."

As to the question whether the President had any knowledge of the incident from the beginning, Minter said that "in
my mind, there isn't any concrete evidence to link him with it, but there is a lot of circumstantial evidence.
This is only the end of the beginning. In the next few months the trail might lead right up to
the door of the oval office, but not completely inside," he said.

And to the general public's reception of the President after the incident and his speech? "Most people in the country
want to believe that the Presidency is above this sort of thing and are hoping that this is true, even
if reason tells them this isn’t so," answered Minter.

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan reacted to the question by calling it "a scandal of the kind
I think would make any decent, concerned citizen want to puke!"

"I don't think Nixon's response in any way makes amends for what happened—it won't change the credibility gap created with
the Administration," Bevan said. "I'm sorry for the Presidency; sorry in the sense that this is the kind of image
the world attaches to us and our leadership," he continued.

The belief of Young Republican leader George Kaneklides also bordered on the same lines as those who did not support
the President. "I think that the whole affair certainly tainted the Administration in nearly every way, and will hamper dealings
with the Congress and his dealings with the American (See NIXON, Page 12)

MAN OF THE YEAR
Nixon poses outside San Clemente.

JY A Program Acquires Videotape System
By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

The Davidson College French Department, through the use of a Sony Videotape System, hopes to assist students in

Dormitory Damage
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Asst. Managing Editor

Damage to student dormitories at Davidson is a perennial problem, and this year has been no exception. Light grills, windows,
floors, ceiling tiles and doors are among the most frequently damaged fixtures. "Generally, dorm damage has been less these last
several years, though a little more extensive in freshman dorms this year than last year," com-Dean of Students Will Terry
commented, "As usual, this trend usually is in certain areas rather than throughout the freshman class," he added. The most
flagrant damages have been to the light grills in Sentelle and Cannon dorms, according to Terry. Many of these expensive
fixtures will have to be replaced for next year. Broken windows have also been a problem in the freshman dorms.
"There seems to be more window damage than usual, and this relates to these missiles which are very dangerous," said
Terry.

At the end of the first term, the freshman class had been billed for water damage to the hall floors.
The floors had to be refinished, and this was an expensive process. About $2 was added to each freshman's January
bill to cover the damage caused by water fights. Also around Christmas, certain halls were billed for additional damages. This
fine amounted to $138 overall. Terry emphasized that some of the damage had been accidental, although there were numerous cases
of purposeful damage, too. He added that there has not been a great deal of damage in Belk, Richardson, Duke,
and Little residence halls.

Terry said that the main reason for damages was that people simply get in the habit of doing it. He
added that student frustration also makes its contribution. "The most effective deterrent to damage is peer pressure. Students need to
take it upon themselves to have respect for one another," Terry said. The dean of students did not agree with
the policy of many colleges. Often a college has a standard damage fee charged to students at the beginning of
each year. "This does not seem, to me at least, to be the best way of handling this," he said.
Terry added that this system invites people to get their money’s worth of damage. In most cases, bills will be
charged to individual halls with the hope that they in turn will work out the best way to handle the
fine. "Somebody must pay," said Terry, "and if those responsible won't, the money must come out of the general budget."

Gaining in-depth insights into the life of the people of France, "The system will be used both at Davidson and
on the JYA program in Montpellier," remarked French Professor Frank Jacobus. The cost of the entire system is $10,000, which
included two cameras, monitors, and $3,000 worth of videotape. The equipment is simple to operate and can be assembled with
a minimum amount of instruction. Jacobus sees three goals for the program. First, "to help students on the JYA in
France deepen, diversify, and articulate their contact with French life while providing experience in the use of the TV medium.
To provide students on the Davidson campus the kinetic and visual aspects of communication in French which are almost entirely
lacking from the present program. And finally to provide students on the Davidson campus a concrete awareness of the 'deep
culture' of French life," Jacobus stated.

"Previously the Junior Year Abroad program has not given the students the insight into French culture as it was intended,"
he said. An example of such a film documentary would be a study of a French cafe. "By the making
of documentary-type films by the JYA students, both those abroad as well as the on-campus students should profit," added Jacobus.
One subject, being undertaken by sophomore Tom Nicoll, involves the study of racism in France today, which is directed towards
the Arabs. The videotape as well as interviews and research will be utilized in this project.

Though the French department instituted the purchase of the videotape system, Jacobus stresses that it could and should be used
by other departments as well. "The TV system could be invaluable as a method of teacher self-evaluation," stated Jacobus. Drama
productions could also use the videotape for work in evaluation and correction. Jacobus hoped that the student body would express
an interest in the new TV system. He said that television has gained a definite foothold on the Davidson campus
and he hoped that students will realize the value of the system as a means of going about a project.
Anyone interested in the videotape system should contact Jacobus. The cost of the system will be financed by an outside
source.

(Staff Photo by Trawick)

The Gamma of North Carolina chapter of Phi Beta Kappa inducted 19 new members during Convocation weekend. They are (l.
to r.) Tinsley, Levi, Beard, Long, Arnold, Wheeler, Campen, Williams, Eskridge, Graham, McCann, Trask, Meier, Jennings, Banta, Coghill, Kelly, Wilson,
and Johnson.
