AID TO THE CENTER
In last week's SGA elections, students voted to give Christmas Gift Project donations to the Davidson-Cornelius Day Care Center. Due to cuts in Federal funds this year, the Day Care Center is in need of financial assistance to meet its operating expenses. The Center is a non-profit organization open to any child in the community who is between the ages of 2 and 5 years.

The Davidsonian, December 21, 1973

Applications Up 60 Percent

Applications to Davidson College increased 60 percent this year while many colleges have experienced an application standstill or decline. "Davidson is one of few colleges in the country with any increase in applications," said Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White. "We don’t know exactly why the great increase has occurred, but we don’t expect it to continue in future years."

As of mid-December, 674 students had applied to Davidson, 480 men and 194 women compared with 334 men and 90 women at the same time a year ago. This represents an increase of 250 or roughly 60 percent. "This is the highest number of applications for any similar time period since the mid-1960s," White said.

"I believe the main reason for the increase is coeducation. There are more men who want to come to Davidson because of coeducation and obviously we now have women applicants that we didn’t have before."

Comet Kohoutek To Provide Rare Holiday Viewing Treat

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Managing Editor

During December and January, people around the globe have the rare opportunity of viewing a comet at close range. The comet, called 1973f by astronomers and better known as Kohoutek, will pass the earth at the mere distance of 75 million miles.

The discoverer of the comet, Dr. Lubos Kohoutek, is an astronomer at the Hamburg Observatory in Bergedorf, West Germany. He believes that the comet will appear one-fifth as bright as a full moon.

He and other scientists hope that the comet will shed valuable light on the origin of our solar system, in addition to being a spectacular sight.

Scientists believe that comets are made up of frozen water, methane, ammonia, carbon dioxide, and cosmic dust. Comets such as Kohoutek are formed in deep space where they swirl together. One theory of the origin of our galaxy asserts that it is evolving in much the same fashion as comets do.

Kohoutek and other comets make far-reaching, elliptical orbits and sometimes slip out of one solar system into another. Scientists can predict the orbits of some comets fairly accurately.

Where the good things are!

Cornelius, N. C. 892-8468

Comet returns to the earth’s vicinity every 75 years. Emily and Ola d’Aulaire predict that Kohoutek will not return to our proximity for about 75,000 years. Scientists are not certain exactly what Kohoutek will do as it grazes the Sun at a distance of 13 million miles. However, they have given a few suggestions about when to view the comet. Before Christmas, look for the comet just before sunrise. Kohoutek will set in the spot where the sun comes up. After Christmas, Kohoutek will be visible an hour or so after the sun goes down. Watch for it in the same spot where the sun has set.

Kohoutek will be most spectacular after Christmas, because the tail will be clearly visible. The tail is made up of small dust particles and gases and is always spread directly away from the Sun.

The matter that composes it is incredibly expanded, and scientists believe that "it will be at least one-and-one-half-times the length of the Big Dipper and may spread across one-fourth of the sky."

In 1910, Halley’s Comet sent many people into a panic because it was feared that the comet would spray poison gas on earth and cause immense tidal waves. People on the coast evacuated their homes, and others took various precautions.

Authorized Dealer
THE SHOP
Electronics Unlimited
173 N. Main St. 663-4513
Mooresville, N.C.

"But I certainly don’t think we can attribute the whole increase to coeducation," White added. "I think there is a growing awareness nationally that there is a good education to be had in the South and that Davidson offers one of the best. I also think more students may be looking for the feeling of community and concern that small colleges like Davidson have."

White added that Davidson's "traditionally strong and well-known academic program has become even more appealing in recent years due to the development of new program opportunities such as independent study, experimental learning projects, and honors work for particularly capable students."

He also cited improvements in campus morale. "Our students have always been cordial to campus visitors and prospective students and have done their part to help sell Davidson. Now student morale is higher than I have ever seen it, and many campus visitors have written us to comment on it."

By the application deadline in March 1974, the admissions office expects to have received 1,300 to 1,500 applications for 328 places in next year’s freshman class.

"Because of the keen competition, we will be accepting not only students with good academic records but also students with records of outstanding contributions in extracurricular activities, community, and church affairs," White said.

DAVIDSON GROCERY
FOR ALL YOUR GROCERY NEEDS

Hours: 7-8 Weekdays and 1-6 Sundays
ONE BLOCK FROM THE COLLEGE

Homeworkers. Earn $60 weekly addressing envelopes. Rush 25¢ Gemco., POB 21244 X, Indianapolis, Ind. 46221

PIEDMONT BANK & TRUST COMPANY
112 South Main Street
MEMBER FDIC

Whatever you want, we've got

ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
170 N. Main
Mooresville, N. C.

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
Mooresville, N. C.