WDAV-FM Expands For Local Alternative

PAUL WELCH
Staff Reporter

After a long period of construction and testing, WDAV Radio has finally begun regularly scheduled broadcasting on an FM frequency
of 90.5 megahertz. Formerly a carrier current A.M. station, WDAV was transformed into an F.M. station over the summer months
of 1973, and may now be heard in the town of Davidson and the immediate surrounding community, as well as
in the college dormitories.

The change from carrier current A.M. to free-broadcasting F.M. has brought with it corresponding changes in programming and emphasis. Classical
music programming, for example, has been expanded from two to three hours nightly in response to the expressed desire of
members of the Davidson community for more such music. When asked about this and other changes in programming, co-station manager
Scott Reid said, “WDAV is attempting to provide a true alternative to present local stations, which have been sadly lacking
as far as serious musical programming is concerned.”

“In the area of public service broadcasting, the station will be presenting such educational programs as the British Broadcasting Corporation's
‘Science Magazine’ and National Public Radio's ‘All Things Considered,’ an interview-oriented commentary on current affairs. News programming will tend to
be centered around campus and community affairs, rather than state or national news. Just as THE DAVIDSONIAN cannot be expected
to cover national news as well as the Charlotte Observer does, WDAV will not try to out-do the Charlotte area
stations. In news we'll be covering what the Charlotte stations can’t do as well as we can—the local on-and-off campus
news, and the national news as it affects people on a local level,” said Reid.

“I am glad to see that WDAV has finally gone FM. I hope that now WDAV can assist THE DAVIDSONIAN
in the presentation and coverage of weekly campus news and events,” DAVIDSONIAN Editor Alec Hoon remarked.

As far as sports programming is concerned, WDAV is planning to broadcast all away football games live. All home basketball
games which will not be carried on WBT Radio of Charlotte will also be broadcast by the college station. Recently,
the station has ordered several pieces of new equipment, the most important of these being a control board which has
been promised to them by WBT. When this board is installed, it will in effect give the station two operating
studio centers, rather than the one it now has. The station also has a new cartridge tape deck, and has
ordered a new turntable.

WDAV will transmit from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. on weekdays and 9 a.m. to 1 a.m. on Saturdays and
Sundays. Weekday broadcasting will begin with a program entitled “All Day Music,” which will consist of “soft to medium” rock
music. At 5, the evening's ‘Classical Concert’ will begin, to be followed at 8 by an hour of jazz. From
9 to 1, the hard rock “Radio Free Davidson” show will be aired. In other developments, WDAV has established a
fund for the improvement of its classical record library. Also in the works is a printed guide to programming. Saturday
afternoon airtime will be devoted to jazz. Sundays from 9 to 2 will be given to religious music and programs
such as the Lutheran Church’s ‘Silhouette.’

The Davidsonian

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

Davidson College
Davidson, North Carolina 28036

TO THE FACULTY, STAFF, and STUDENTS

Beginning September 20, all offices will be closed each Thursday from 10:00-10:30 a.m. so that students, faculty, and staff can
meet together informally for cokes and coffee in the Banquet Hall of Chambers. Cokes and coffee will be available for
those who want to buy them.

One of the characteristics which distinguishes Davidson from large universities is the potential for close relationships among all members of
the college community. However, we often don't take the time to maintain such associations. The purpose of the weekly cokes
and coffee session is to provide an opportunity for all of us to stop for a few minutes, meet a
little better. I hope all of you will come.

SRS:1d

From The PresidentInformally, and get to know one another. We will try this experiment for the first term and I
hope that we continue it if the response is favorable. With every good wish,

September 14, 1973

Page Three

September 11, 1973

Doughnuts Awards Highlight Convocation

College Hosts Parent’s Activities

Parents of Davidson students, current and past, are being invited to campus on Sept. 21-22 for a weekend of activities
especially designed to help them update their perspective concerning the work of the college. The opening event will be the
Fall Convocation at which special awards will be made to outstanding faculty and students. The convocation address will be delivered
by college President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and will be a “state of the College” message along with some forecasts
of coming developments for Davidson during the school year 1973-74.

Following the Convocation and luncheon, parents will have the opportunity to attend a special panel entitled, “After Davidson, What?” Coordinated
by director of the Student Counseling Service William B. Hight, the panel will consist of the chairmen of the pre-law,
pre-med, and pre-ministerial committees along with the chairman of the Graduate Studies Committee. The panel will discuss pre-professional training and
what steps students and their advisors take toward preparing for graduate training. Following the panel discussion, there will be “mini-classes”
presented by faculty members on current topics. These capsule courses give the parents a view both of the classroom activities
and faculty of the college. The final event Friday will be hospitality hours for the parents and their sons and
daughters in various faculty and staff homes in Davidson.

On Saturday morning there will be special receptions at the President’s Home, hosted by Mrs. Samuel R., and at the
gym with the athletic coaches. Following the receptions, a student panel will discuss student life at Davidson - academic, social,
financial, coeducational, and ethical. Moderator of the panel, entitled “At Davidson, What” will be SGA President Bo Phillips. The Davidson
Parents Council will also meet Saturday morning. A national committee of parents of current as well as former Davidson students,
the Council exists to improve communications between United States Congressman from North Carolina's 6th District.

Twelve Professors Join Staff, Diverse Interests Represented

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Managing Editor

Several new faculty members from a wide range of areas have joined the Davidson community this year. There have been
additions in the areas of classics, biology, philosophy, economics, chemistry, and English.

Joseph E. Croft is an assistant professor of classics. Jerry L. Putnam, assistant professor of biology, taught biology at Holyoke
Community College in Massachusetts. There are several visiting professors who will be teaching at Davidson this fall. They are William
J. Thomas, Joseph P. Hughes, Jr., Thomas P. Reinwald, and Georgianna Ziegler.

Thomas comes to Davidson as a visiting assistant professor of philosophy. J. Albert Schultz is a new instructor in chemistry
at Davidson. Reinwald will be a visiting assistant professor of economics for the fall term. He has done graduate teaching
assistance for the past three years at the University of Illinois. Hughes will succeed Reinwald in the winter and spring
terms at Davidson. He was a 1970 graduate of Davidson, and he recently completed his Ph.D. in economics at UNC-Chapel
Hill. Miss Ziegler is an instructor in English at Davidson this year. She is substituting for Professor Gill Holland who
is now on sabbatical in Taiwan. Miss Ziegler earned a Ph.D. in English from the University of Pennsylvania, where she
also was a teaching fellow.

Additions to Davidson’s Faculty and Staff: (Row 1) Koller, Sociology; Retzer, Political Science; Pindregraft, Library, (Row 2) Beaty, Library; Ziegler,
English; Stone, Assistant to the Dean of Students; (Row 3) Yoder, French; Simpson, Military Science; Beaver, Laundry; (Row 4) Thomas,
Philosophy; Grant, Military Science.

Norman Koller, instructor of sociology; Joseph Retzer, instructor in political science; Lauren Yoder, instructor in French; Colonel William C. Simpson,
of military science; Captain William DeVaughan, assistant professor of military science; and Major Clarence Grant, Jr., assistant professor of military
science, constitute previously named faculty additions.
