Cagers Edge Ineffectual Princeton

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Lopsided as Carolina shot 70 percent in a 103-91 game, and St. John’s was simply a tough loss to a good team. Saying, “We’ve just been out quicked underneath, if we play in front of their big men then the ball is just lobbed over our heads; if we play behind them then they have been going around us.”

Against Princeton, the Cats used more of a zone defense than they usually do. The defense forced the Tigers into committing many turnovers and forced bad shots. “I'd have to say that defense was the difference,” Holland said. “When you hold a team to 47 points, you're doing a heck of a job,” Holland continued.

Princeton had a 35 percent field goal average in the game as the Tigers could not move the ball against Davidson’s zone. Consequently, they were forced into taking bad shots. “We knew that they don’t like to play against a zone so we just used it more than we have so far this season, but we backed up on the perimeter so that they couldn't get the ball inside,” Holland said.

Leading scorer for Davidson was John Falconi with 17 points. Larry Horowitz and Greg Dunn were behind Falconi with 12 and 16 points respectively. “John played a very good game,” said Holland, who was more impressed with Falconi’s 6 rebounds. “John really went underneath and got some crucial rebounds for us,” Holland said. Horowitz was the game’s leading rebounder with 9. Overall, Davidson outrebounded Princeton 33 to 18, which pleased Holland greatly. “In the three losses we were getting beat on the boards and it’s good to win underneath at last,” Holland commented.

The tension before the game was evident as the players and coaches were unable to loosen up at all. After the game, Holland admitted that the win was a big victory for the Cats.

Davidson Receives Lively In Recruiting Transaction

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Staff Writer

Maryland’s loss is Davidson’s gain in the case of Marvin Lively, a freshman swingman and the leading scorer for the J.V. basketball team. Marvin was originally being recruited by Lefty Driesell and Maryland but came to Davidson as a result of an interesting bit of “dealing.”

Driesell and Terry Holland have long been friends going back to the time 13 years ago when Driesell, then coaching at Davidson, recruited Holland to stay on as an assistant coach after his graduation. Holland replaced Driesell in 1968. Their friendship remains and certainly had something to do with the recruiting of Lively.

According to Holland, he called Driesell late in the “recruiting season” to ask if there were any good ballplayers with grades that might be interested in coming to Davidson. Driesell mentioned Lively, whom Holland had been interested in before. “We had sent him a questionnaire, but he never filled it out or sent it back to us,” Holland said. Driesell felt that he would not really be able to use Lively because Maryland already had two similar ballplayers, Mo Howard and John Lucas.

“I had been interested in Maryland for about three years,” Lively said, “and I knew Lefty Driesell was scouting me. I had been to some basketball...camps at Maryland and was pretty set about starting,” he added. “I said that I didn’t care that much about starting but that I did want to play.

“A few days after that phone call, Coach Holland called me at my home in Richmond and said that he had talked to Driesell. He said that Davidson was interested in me. I told him that I liked Davidson and he must have taken me at my word because he was in Richmond two hours later.”

“It was a very rapid transaction of business,” said Holland. “We knew that we wanted a boy of Marvin’s quality with us. It’s rare to find a young man who is president of his high school class, has as good grades as Marvin, and who is as good a basketball player.”

Lively names “basketball smarts” as his best asset. “I think that I have pretty good court sense and am good at finding the open man.”

WELCOME TO WHAT-a-BURGER
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

THE SNEAKY SHOE
The Red Hanger
UCK’s Elephant Barn
115 N. Main St.
Davidson, N. C.
Box 2408
892-7561

The Davidsonian
December 21, 1973

Seven

“We've all been frustrated in the last week and now that we won tonight, I think we proved that we can win the important games,” he said.

Before the game Holland admitted that frustration was one of the principal causes for the loss to Richmond. “We had so many chances to put the Richmond game out of reach, but after two losses we would tense up and lose the ball,” Holland added.

The players were also relieved with the win and the team now seems ready for Furman and a tough schedule over the Christmas break. Davidson now stands at 3-3 overall and 0-2 in the Southern Conference, but as Holland said after the Princeton game, “We’re 0-2 in the Southern Conference right now, but we're 2-0 in the Ivy League so far this season.”

YOUR FIRST YEAR

A commercial flying career... you may qualify.

FREE FLYING LESSONS PLUS $9,800 INCOME

And that's only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on impressive executive credentials to go with the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You'll earn from $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits including 30 days paid vacation annually, free worldwide air travel, medical care and much more. If you're between 20½ and 26½, a senior or graduate student, contact TSgt. Roger Church at 332-3046.

DICTIONARIES

WEBSTER
Library size 1973 edition, brand new, still in box.
Cost New $45.00
Will Sell for $15
Deduct 10% on orders of 6 or more

Make Checks Payable to
DICTIONARY LIQUIDATION
AND MAIL TO
Webster Dictionaries
P. O. Box 218
Davidson, N. C. 28036

C.O.D. orders enclose $1.00 goodwill deposit. Pay balance plus C.O.D. shipping on delivery. Be satisfied on inspection or return within 10 days for full refund. No dealers, each volume specifically stamped not for resale. Please add $1.25 postage and handling.