Page Six September 28, 1973 The Davidsonian

STEVE CANTERBURY

History Relates Confe

The nights are long - the second week has come to the students in the sleepy community north of Cornelius.
The House of Madam Davidson had been traditionally busy with the heavy fall business.

“Within the deepest stacks of the old Grey building, General C.G. Davidson of the Confederacy planned his attack. His headquarters
was crumbling. The maze within the building which had at first protected him, now only bothered and confused him.

One certain night when the moon was shining bright through the towering elms in the Madam’s backyard, a group of
20 freshmen shyly walked upon the Madam’s porch. The bravest of them, a curly-haired young man, rang the bell. The
Madam’s tall, thin butler answered.

“Yes?” he asked with a knowing smile.

“Is... well... is the House open tonight?” the curly-haired youth asked.

“Of course. Step in.”

The butler stepped back into the House and the young men followed.

“Who’s it, Grover?” an elderly, feminine voice called from above.

Grover, the butler, answered, “Customers, Madam.”

“Well, well. Send ‘em to Coin Dog. I'll be thar in a minit.”

To the right of the main entrance was a small office. Behind a teller’s window sat the plump, bespectacled Coin
Dog. The freshmen were shown into the room by Grover.

“Hi fellas,” Coin Dog said in his gentle Midwestern voice. “Pay up here. I'll put it all in 10 percent.”

The boys paid Coin Dog dearly, willingly. And the full-faced man laughed with every ring of the cash register.

“Gentlemen, to the parlour. Madam Davidson awaits you.”

The boys stepped on each other's heels in their haste to get to the parlour. Inside, the Madam reclined upon
her favorite couch. Her red and black evening dress was silky and flowing. Her make-up was painted heavily, hintingly upon
her fat cheeks and arched eyebrows.

“Have a seat, boys,” the fat

By PETE CELANTANO
Staff Writer

This week's offering at the Visualite Theater in Charlotte is something misleadingly called “The Best from the New York Film
Festival.” Proposed as a serious treatment of erotic filmmaking as visual art, this series of eight films is only half-successful.
Of the films I saw, only three could be remotely considered film art, and of these, one, entitled “Calma,” almost
made the film worth seeing. Note I said “almost.”

Perhaps the most remarkable achievement is that any film of quality was selected. The judges included Ken Gaul, an erotic-film
distributor who specializes in the perverse, Holly Woodlawn, an “actress” in Andy Warhol's stable, and Xaveria Hollander, of “Happy Hooker”
fame.

Treating the best of the shorts (each was about 12 min.) first, “Calma” was a truly beautiful piece of film.
Extreme close-up shots of flesh under stark lighting, dissolving into softer shades, turn the human body into a surreal landscape.
The electronic music in the background adds to the otherworldly atmosphere. The surprise ending will leave you extremely gratified. This
film was far and away the best of the festival.

Two other films are worth mentioning as “artful.” “Eyetoo” is a dazzling experience in color. It was marred in that
it took itself too seriously by trying to make some universal statement about the value of erotica. In many ways,
John Knoop's untitled film was the most technically accomplished. The camera work and editing are amazing as Knoop details a
bout of sex, and then abstracts it into dazzling planes and facets of color. This film is my second choice
of the festival.

Of the rest, “The Stripper” is hard-core porn distinguished by reel-to-reel sweet soul music. “Life With Video” is funny, but
only in a prurient way. “Sports” is an exercise in athletic erotica, while the twenties cartoon stag short “Buried Treasure”
is notable only for its well-endowed hero Everready Harton.

The debate on obscenity versus art is not furthered one way or another by these films, as their quality is
very uneven. Technically, erotic films have improved enormously. Color photography, more attractive individuals, higher sound quality, and more appropriate soundtracks
all show the influence of “Deep Throat” in upgrading the quality of erotic films.

In closing, it must be said that these films are not for those looking for erotic stimulations, nor are they
for the easily offended. However, if you are seriously interested in the medium of erotic films as a film art,
these films are worth trying.

* * *

Also of interest in Charlotte are the two releases at the Southpark Cinemas I and II, “Scarecrow” and “Paper Moon.”

“Scarecrow,” starring Gene Hackman and Al Pacino, is somewhat of an enigma. I enjoyed it immensely, but I’m not really
sure why. The story concerns two itinerants, Maxie (Gene Hackman), a big barroom tough just released from a nine-year stretch
in prison, and Francis (Al Pacino), an immature ex-sailor on his way home to see the wife and child he
had deserted five years before. The two meet up while thumbing on a deserted road in California and decide to
become partners in Maxie’s dream: a carwash in Pittsburgh. The remainder of the movie concerns the escapades of the pair
as they wander across the country.

However, the story is unimportant to the success of the film. The direction, reportedly by Jerry Schatzberg, is non-existent. The
sole purpose of the film seems to be as a showcase for the acting talents of Al Pacino and Gene
Hackman. As such, the film succeeds beautifully. The two complement each other superbly—they are the sole substance of the movie.
They are ably abetted in this tour de force by the grimly realistic camera of Sven Walnum and John Shannon,
but the film is overwhelmingly dominated by the two stars. In short, “Scarecrow” is for those who enjoy watching two
consummate artists working without restriction. I urge you to see it. “Scarecrow” will be playing at Southpark Cinema II until
Oct. 5.

* * *

At Southpark Cinema I is a mindless piece of fluff entitled “Paper Moon,” starring RyanO’Neal and his 9-year-old daughter Tatum.
The latter manages to steal every scene from daddy Ryan, himself a notable ham, with an arresting charm and a
pixie quality reminiscent of Shirley Temple. As always, the elder O’Neal acts with his questionable ability and only succeeds in
getting closer to an early retirement. In this further exercise in nostalgia, Peter ("Last Picture Show", "What's Up Doc") Bogdanovich
once again shows that he is more film historian than director. The acting alternates between being stiff and improvised. Only
Madeline Kahn, as exotic dancer Trixie Delite, gives a truly professional performance in this amateur hour. With all its faults,
though, "Paper Moon" will probably make money as escapist entertainment. There are worse ways to spend a slow afternoon (though
none come readily to mind). In short, if you liked "Good Ship Lollipop", you'll love "Paper Moon". It too will
be at Southpark until October 5.

The queen said. Raising her voice, she shouted, “Girls! Girls! Ya got bizniss to ‘tend to.” The pretty young prostitutes
entered. They wasted no time in finding their men. Each of them sat upon the freshmen’s knees with their arms
draped around the young boys’ necks. Then another prostitute entered. She walked slowly down the stairs. She wore her evening
dress loosely, showing only hints of her perfect figure. The girl's face was as old as last night, but as
fresh as tomorrow. Her well-used lips somehow looked innocent. The voice that came from her was a gentle, yet commanding
voice. The girl was herself a picture of defeat and of hope. Her name was History. History smiled out at
the group. Her smile was the smile of endurance. History had made—and been made by—many men. Some were kind to
her; others were, unfortunately, cruel. None of the group had at first noticed her. They were laughing and sipping their
martinis. But when she cleared her throat, they all heard and they looked up to her.

“Before the evening gets too far gone,” she began, “I feel that a little cocktail history would be in order.
Let's see. Since you’re freshmen, you weren't here during the last Civil War battle. It was only fought a few
years back. Many fools and tall historians with long cigars will tell you that the war ended in 1865. That
report is absolutely fictitious. The war is not over; it continues. And the Madam's House is in the midst of
the battle.

“The Confederate camp had long stood in that Grey building. But the time was ripe for an escape from their
fortress which had become their prison.

“The silver-haired man stood up. With a walking stick in his left hand and a list of wealthy alumni in
his right, he looked up to the grave portrait of Stonewall Jackson. He was inspired. He knew his mission—He, General
C.G. Davidson of the Grey camp would attack and destroy General C. Shaw Smith's Union because of coeducation.

“In the Union camp, General C. Shaw Smith was conversing freely with his Colonel, the emancipated Lester. There was talk
of an attack coming from the Grey camp. Both the General and his Colonel were tense.

“His fame as a trickster in battle and a magician with words at the conference table was not entirely false.
But while his left hand held a mighty sword, his right hand held only a white bunny. And the rabbit
had eaten his list of wealthy alumni.

“No amount of black magic could help.

“The attack came quickly. General C.G. Davidson led the charge. And the Union fell. General C. Shaw Smith picked up
what he could and fled to the home of Mrs. Martin, a local sympathizer who lent her house often to
many causes. He cut his operations to a minimum. And he grew a great beard so that he could not
be spotted and shot down.

“General C.G. Davidson went to the spot where the Union had fallen. He called his staff to his side and
he proclaimed, ‘We’ll build a grey fence around the area. And we’ll build a living monument to our great victory.’

“And so the monument was planned and is still being built.

“But General C. Shaw Smith is not idle. It is said that he plans to attack the Grey building. He
plans to plant his Union there.

“Yet this victory would be but ashes in his mouth. General C. Shaw Smith would be but planting his Union
in the abandoned ruin of the Confederate headquarters.

“The Grey building is crumbling. The walls are falling.

“But General C. Shaw Smith has no choice—he and the Union take their orders from Uncle Sam, and Uncle Sam
wills it so.”

A yawn was noticed by History from one of the freshmen. She smiled. “You grow impatient,” she said. “Ok. I
hope you understand what I said. Get your girls off of your laps; take your pencils from your pockets; and
come upstairs. We're going to take a writ!”

YM/YWCA Contributions

The YM/YWCA is conducting its first fund-raising drive under its new name this week. This drive generates the entire budget
for the Y; it receives no money from either the university or the college general fund. “Staff, faculty, and students
alike have in past years responded warmly to the fund drive and we are certain that this year they will
again,” said YM/YWCA Advisor Daniel Rhodes.

The money will be spent on several programs, Rhodes said. The Y has a $5000 debt incurred in the renovation
of the depot last year. The Y's activities and programs include STEP, the Christian Life Committee, Adopt-a-Granny, Boy Scouts, Cub
Scouts, and Girl Scouts, as well as the education, recreation, and fellowship programs at the Depot. There are also special
programs such as a weekend trip to Williamsburg for 35 underprivileged children. Minister to Students Rush Otey said, “Our need
for funds is indeed pressing. In the coming week, Y representatives will be visiting students to ask for donations, and
we hope that they will respond generously.” The Y was formerly the YMCA, but was renamed this Fall.
