Eight

December 21, 1973 The Davidsonian

MERRY CHRISTMAS
The Editors and staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN wish everyone a happy holiday season.

... Union Violates

(Continued from page 1)

“I think it’s been clear up until now that the Trustees do not want to get into the business of
selling beer,” Spencer stressed the college position that permits students to use alcohol although not encouraging its use.

“When the college gets into dispensing beer, you're taking it a step beyond the individual. The school now has a
stake in it. You’re in a position of almost encouraging the use of alcohol. I think this becomes an institutional
rather than an individual decision at that stage. I don’t think that the union has any obligation to run an
open bar,” Spencer said.

Bruce indicated the desirability of having a license when the Union moved to the new facility in Grey Library. “I
think next year sometime would be the best time for us to seek a license,” he said.

He mentioned certain advantages of the sale of beer at the Union. He also felt that the sale of beer
was, in effect, a control measure.

... Basketball Program

(Continued from page 1)

to be a trial year, so to speak, for the program's recruiting status. We want to see what results we
can get and what it costs to achieve them.”

He indicated that the college is particularly interested in seeing whether or not Davidson has the financial means to recruit
the talent necessary to make it a major college power.

“I have heard the rumors that we are not spending enough money to recruit on the major college level,” Spencer
admitted. “But I have not seen any figures or results of a study concerning the matter.”

The “rule of reason” approach that the college is taking toward the program this year will be carried out under
the close supervision of Athletic Director-designate Dr. Thomas Cartmill.

“The amount of money that basketball will be able to use is by no means unlimited,” Spencer pointed out. “But
they are not bound by a fixed budget, if they need more.”

The preliminary policy expressed the hope that the Wildcat Club would help in the recruitment funding if the team spends
more than the college has allotted.

Hours: 9 - 7
Phone 892-0208

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Wed. 9-12. — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Davidson, N.C.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies
131 N. Main St.

PEPPY’S PIZZA BARN

Family Sized Pizza
Ph. 663-2792
Mooresville

Clip This Coupon

“People are a lot less likely to bring liquor to a college union function if we have free beer or
beer at little cost. We have shown by our experiment with the contribution system that we're not in this to
make money. It’s a student service,” said Bruce.

Bruce explained that the College Union had lost better than $300 in giving away beer under the contribution plan.

“The ABC people were really nice, but you get the feeling you're really getting checked up on all the time,”
Bruce explained.

“From now on, we’ll just be giving beer away on special occasions.”

Spencer supported the concept of giving away beer at parties and other special functions. “I think a party is a
little bit different from an open bar situation,” he said.

DAVIDSON MOOR LANES BOWLING
N.C. 115, MOORESVILLE
SNACK BAR POOL TABLES
Special Daytime Prices

CARLO’S
Jeans n' Things
At Depression Prices
122 S. Main St.
Mooresville, N.C.

Make this a Christmas shared

Remember all the Christmases you've shared throughout the years, with friends and loved ones near and far away.

It didn't matter where you were as long as they were there, and thinking of each other made the day.

If you've ever loved somebody or if you've ever cared, send a Hallmark card this Christmas and make it a
Christmas shared.

THE VILLAGE STORE
Davidson, N.C.

PIN-BALL MACHINES

First Union National.
