ALAN BARAGONA

The Davidsonian § January 26, 1973 Page Five

Wopple Entertains Basketball Fans

Crash flashing colors, clothes crowded in the bleachers and crash echoes against the gymnasium walls of bouncing balls and screeching adidas. The warm-up. People jostling—in and out. Striped shirts, windbreakers, frat jerseys, ties and coats. Sun-glasses! Wotthehel!!! Shy away. Weird looking buncha hoods. Doorman kind of nervous when he has to bully them out of their seats—are you sure they're safe? Don Guappo Lasagne and friends take in the basketball racket.

“What are those kids? A buncha Communists?”
“Let's get out of here, Martha.”

Slow, with amplified cool for the larger audience, the Don makes the rounds. Bouncy, bouncy balls. Geeze, keep them away from those hood-looking buncha weirdos! The Don “et” entourage sit. The stands stand. Now wait a minute.

“Can you see them, George? Where are the police?”

Full court press inside with ball bouncing echoes. Outside, a huddle. Numb Elroy hovers in the big bush. Why are those paper mache bars on the fountain? Who are these guys? Big pistols. Put their heads together. Take a count: two ticket-takers have heart failure; students sniggering like they know something we don't know—that's suspicious; thought I saw a 45, honest; sunglasses at a basketball game, an indoor basketball game. Hmmm. No sunglasses on their ID's. That's suspicious. What would Joe Friday do?

Sorrentino, our boy, pumping his calves off while the Don receives. Numb Elroy swings from the rafters, making occasional snatches at airborne balls. Look great on the fountain.

DeFENSE! DeFENSE! Tough cheers, bring out the animal. Fight on the court. Yaaay! Wade into them! Spill their blood! Kick his...

“Shameful bunch of subversives! Sunglasses. Glorifying violence! Horrid. Just like those damn ginnies.”
“Showoffs. Exhibitionists.” (Wonder what would happen if I tried to hit the Don?)
“Youse days is numbered, Lasagne.”
“Game, what game?”
“The trouble is, you guys ought to stage a hit. Let's have a little action!”

“So it's decided: we enter in a body, guns drawn, and remove those troublemakers by force. You sure you saw a 45?” Heads nod, yeah sure. Break! The huddle disperses, close quarter march, into the gym.

“Cripes, you guys. Wotthehel are you doing? You're cops. Those are real guns. Real!”
“Oh Yeah.”

Numb Elroy snares a ball. Time out. Okay, Lasagne, call your boys off the wildcat. Give him back the pajamas. Phantom Elroy swoops down close. Six women, rhinestone Women's Auxiliary to the Duluth American Legion pins balanced precariously on their bodices, throng like teeny-boppers around the P.D. contingent. Elroy all ears.

Labban Called Conscientious; Pass-Fail Dangers Explained

To the Editor:

Robert Touchton’s critique of Dr. Labban's Classics Abroad Program seemed to be an essay in pique and a testament of personality clash rather than a reasonable assessment of a professor and his course. I have known Dr. Labban for four years now, and I think a rebuttal to Mr. Touchton is in order.

I was in France with Dr. Labban during the academic year 1968-69. He was in charge of the Junior Year Abroad group in Montpellier that year. It was supposed to be his sabbatical year, but he volunteered to serve the college in the capacity of foreign advisor. I never had the opportunity to study the program he prepares for the Classics Abroad course, but based on my experience in France and tales told by classmates, I consider Dr. Labban to be one of the most conscientious, intelligent, and dedicated teachers I’ve ever dealt with—in high school, college, or graduate school.

Dr. Labban understood us better than we understood ourselves over in France—he demanded that we finish all our official academic work before we left Montpellier for the year. We grumbled and griped—and when we returned to Davidson, we found the students from Marburg in the library, trying desperately to finish work that had been due in the Spring. Getting back into the rhythm of Davidson was hard enough without having to worry about overdue papers and reading lists. I would have had them to do however, had it not been for Dr. Labban's prodding.

Dr. Labban demands a great deal from a student—but the student is repaid by scrupulous attentions. Dr. Labban reads a student's papers with great care, and he will not tolerate sloppy scholarship or sloppy thinking. He expects students to follow the strict standards he sets for himself. Nothing could be more just or fair. But Dr. Labban is not a stuffy man, and I know he has a deep loyalty and fondness for many of his students. He keeps in touch long after they've left Davidson. That is true of very few professors anywhere. Now you may like or...dislike Dr. Labban and his methods of teaching and administering a course -- but you mustn't misjudge him professionally. He is a very dedicated teacher of Classical Studies and a student of Literature in general. Anyone who studies under him will have to work at his studies -- but he will be rewarded greatly by his acquaintance with an excellent professor and a fine man. One simply cannot ask for anything more.

Patrick B. Mullen ‘70
Chapel Hill, N.C.

To the Editor:

In regard to your article on the pass-fail system in the December 1, 1972 issue, I wish to raise a few points. As far as medical schools are concerned (in my experience) a Pass is equal to a 2.0 and that is final. If the student has any sort of an average at all and is attempting to get into medical school he should avoid Pass-Fail courses. Extended studies is a Pass-Fail course and in itself is a very fine idea -- much superior, practically speaking, than the original Area Exam concept. However, when a senior’s GPA is calculated by the medical school or even by Davidson College, what shows up in his record but two major area Passes or more clearly two C's. These courses are not just added to your transcript as an addendum to graduation requirements. Rather they are averaged into your GPA at 2.0 each. If you have a precarious B average, there it goes, down the drain carrying with it your hope of medical school. It is very nice that LSDAS does not average in Pass-Fail courses. Unfortunately, AMCAS does. They don't give credit for plusses. Regardless of what Dr. Osterhaut at Duke and Dr. Johnson at Bowman-Gray tell you about other factors being considered in addition to grades, your GPA is what gets you into medical school today. If you don't have it they won't have you, regardless.

John A. Davidson ‘72
Southern Ill. Univ.
Carbondale, Il.

LU \ —{" Xe #2 q — Ld j~= ~™ - ~ \— ~ 7 “ z - ~ 1 — Z £ AA\e7 z “ é bs EA a a Za AA wer" AR pk WY i. zh! A Ys ly

“Occified! Off-officer. Please escort us to cars. No telling what sort of hooligans may be lurking in the bushes. Mafioso-purse-snatcher-rapists. I may swoon!" Sunglasses huddle. Take a count: fourteen threats on the Don's life, eight fictive and six serious; three requests to hit Rich Wilson; twelve requests to hit Earl MacCormac (Rich is refused); two requests to drop dead; five offers to help us do it. Aargh! Mott votes to move out. Elroy seconds. Motion carried and executed. Elroy flits through the bleachers, peeks up a few, pinches a few, proposes to Katie Early (scorned). Pandemonium. The Cockasnook rips through the crowd, fingers flying. The Masked Nid flies through the crowd fingers...oh, well. The Don calls it off. “Real guns? Cripes. Next time we come as carrots!" Move out close quarter march. Push shove black and blue. I want his hat. Who is he under those Silva Thin goggles? The crowd is standing cheering clapping moving milling shoving screaming get in on the act real act real kill kill kill good grief are they safe weirdos look out my nerves! Numb Elroy crouched on the rafters, arms waving, shouting unheard into the noise, bouncing, screaming, “You, Davidson, you, students, just who are YOU supposed to represent?”

outside perspective
By LEX VEAZEY

Delegates Discuss Parking Problem

The theme at the recent annual meeting of the Association of College Auxiliary Services was “Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Parking But Had No One to Ask.” One delegate said, “A lot of judgments about a university are based on its parking facilities. Frustrating people does not help the university's image.” A California State University delegate emphasized, “You cannot force the public to use a less convenient mode of transportation than their own cars. But you also cannot cram 30,000 people in 5,000 spaces at 10 o’clock Monday mornings.” Another delegate added, “Everyone not only wants a place to park, but the mobility to park near whatever building they're going to at a given time.”

Several attempts have been made in an effort to solve the parking problem. At Syracuse University a shuttle-bus service from outlying areas to the center of the campus has been established. “There is less vehicular traffic around the center of the campus,” a Syracuse University delegate revealed. “Students can still have their cars, but they leave them in lots away from the center of the campus.”

J Vat A : \ \ . (Se \ AY \ _ AWW, ALA Ne She g\¥ Pr sand the grand a// room is tree kvels up — but in the East win Pelo field .-. Bs just cpposcte the indoor-