Che Vol. LXIII, No. Six Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students October 19, 1973

BOARD OF TRUSTEES TO MEET
(Staff Photo by Goodman)

On October 26 the Trustees will discuss various aspects of Davidson athletics, the student housing situation, and the proposed student
union. Their decisions could affect the future complexion of the college. Pictured above is a meeting of the Trustees last
year.

Grading Policy Study Prompts Several Proposals For Revision
By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

A proposal, which will come up before the SGA this Tuesday, might radically change the Davidson grading and course registration
systems. As it now stands, the motion would be made by the SGA’s ad hoc committee on grading systems to
lengthen the drop period for courses from one to five weeks and to replace outright a failing grade for a
course which the student successfully retakes with the second grade. The current policy for the two is a drop period
of six days after the term begins and an average of the made-up and original grades of a failed course
being put on the student’s record.

Committee Chairman Steve Canterbury said, “I think the faculty will be open, if not receptive to the proposal, if for
nothing less than the fact that there was a lot of work that went into this project. It wasn’t just
a flimsy notion that we thought we'd present to the Senate.”

The committee started its research into the grading systems of other colleges last Spring trying to see how Davidson compared
to them in its policies. Canterbury, Andy Lamas, and Rick Damewood used three sources for their statistics, the first being
a 100 college survey of institutions around the country, with at least one school polled from each state. The colleges
they polled were chosen from a list of those termed either “highly” or “very” selective by the 1972 edition of
the Comparative Guide to American Colleges. Besides the typical questions on registration and grading, the committee was particularly interested in
the drop-add period of each college. In response to the 100 questionnaires sent out, 85 were returned.

The second study source was the 1971 survey by the Association of American College Registration and Admitting Offices, whose questionnaires
did not contain drop-add information. Finally, the committee ran a series of computer statistics on the 1972 and 1973 graduating
classes at Davidson to compute figures on the number of D’s and F's acquired by members of the two classes,
at what point in their academic careers these grades occurred, and which courses were more highly represented by failing grades.

“Our first point concerning the lengthening of the drop period was confirmed by our survey,” stated Canterbury. “Only 12 out
of the 85 colleges had as short a drop period as we did. Most of the Ivy League schools even
let a student wait until the last day of the term to drop a course.

“Secondly,” continued Canterbury, “if you take a course now and flunk it, then retake the course later on, the two
grades are averaged into your record. The majority of schools operate (See GRADING, page 12)

Students Out To Get Blood
By JOHN TATUM
Staff Writer

Want to do something for your fellow man? The Davidson College ROTC Department is sponsoring a blood drive in conjunction
with the Red Cross. Blood drive chairman Bob Norman is publicizing the event in an attempt to persuade the college
community to meet its quota. “If 30 percent of all students, faculty and staff donate blood, the entire college is
covered free of charge,” said Norman. “This is a very good deal.”

Norman stated that the procedure for drawing blood is not painful, and nearly everyone is eligible to give. A U.S.
Army portable field hospital will be brought in from Ft. Bragg and located here in Davidson. Medical personnel will be
on hand to screen potential donors and conduct the procedure. The drive will be held Oct. 24 from 10 a.m.
to 4 p.m. in the parking lot across from the Fine Arts Building.

Trustees To Decide Future Of Athletics
By MIKE TANNER
Executive Editor

The issue of subsidized football and the future status of all inter-collegiate sports at Davidson will be the principal focus
of discussion at the upcoming meeting of the Board of Trustees. The renovation of Grey Library for the housing of
union facilities and the financing of future student housing will also be considered at the meeting, scheduled for the 25th
and the 26th of October. Assistant to the President, Rich Wilson explained that these three issues are to be given
equal attention, but that the subsidization of football decision appears to be...the most anxiously awaited. “It is certainly the most
emotional topic of the three,” Wilson said. Since last spring, faculty and trustee committees of athletics and physical education have
met and enumerated several points that will be drafted in the form of firm resolutions for consideration by the board.

First, the committees seem to agree that football should be desubsidized, that players should be awarded scholarships only on the
basis of their financial need. And contingent to this, it will be recommended that the football schedule be revised, hopefully
enabling Davidson to be successfully competitive.

The second point that will go before the board is that the basketball program be continued at full strength. This
would mean the continuation of the present number of available scholarships and a ratings goal of 20th in the nation
or better.

Third, the committees call for the extension of the intramural and club sports programs for maximum student participation. And finally,
the athletic recommendations suggest adequate support of the present non-subsidized sports. These include soccer, tennis, baseball, and track.

These then, are the four points that the Athletics and Physical Education Committee of the Board of Trustees will discuss
and from which it will make its final recommendations to the board.

Also next week, the trustee Finance and Management Committee will review price estimates for the construction of module living units
in the area around Patterson Court and from these figures, will decide whether the proposal for these units is feasible.
Wilson added that if the Finance and Management Committee feels that the living modules would be too costly, it could
suggest a study of alternative plans. “It may be that they would see that the only solution would be to
build one or two more standard dormitories,” Wilson said.

And finally, the trustees will discuss what will be done with the Grey Library after the completion of the new
Little Library. The Building and Grounds Committee of the board will first review the proposals for the renovation of Grey
Library for use as the new student union. All other committees of the board will meet on Thursday to receive
information on these campus issues, but little further action is expected.

Hoon Endorses Remuneration For DAVIDSONIAN Editor

By ANDY LAMAS
Contributing Editor

A proposal for a $300 allocation to future DAVIDSONIAN editors was presented to the Senate Tuesday by Alec Hoon, the
current editor. THE DAVIDSONIAN has emerged as a very powerful force on campus, as evidenced by increased enthusiasm from students,
faculty, and administration, according to Hoon. “It would be advantageous to the student body as a whole to maintain a
high-quality newspaper that expresses student and faculty opinions,” he said. “To maintain this, I strongly feel that it is necessary
to give the editor some reward beyond the personal satisfaction he may obtain from doing the job,” stated Hoon.

The editor often spends 40 hours a week working on the newspaper, he claimed. “Believe me, there are times when
THE DAVIDSONIAN can get you way behind in your academic work and you want to say ‘to hell with the
whole thing.’ A small salary would be a little additional incentive for the editor to do a good job, especially
during difficult times,” emphasized Hoon.

The majority of the editor’s work is completed between Sunday and Thursday of each week, he said. During these days,
Hoon said that he (1) reviews the previous week's paper, (2) plans the format and assignments for the upcoming paper,
(3) gives assignments to reporters and photographers, (4) proofreads completed stories, (5) lays out the paper at the print shop,
(6) works with advertisers, and (7) researches and writes his own stories.

Of course, the editor has other students who help carry the workload in all of the above-mentioned areas; however, the
editor carries the major burden of responsibility throughout every stage of the newspaper’s production.

The Senate will discuss and vote on the editor’s plan at the next meeting. If Hoon’s idea is approved by
the Senate, the funds will most likely be allocated by the Campus Tax Committee. “The administration doesn’t seem to be
in favor of the idea,” Hoon said. “I’m going to try to take the idea to Campus Tax and get
them to add money for the editor’s pay to THE DAVIDSONIAN’s budget.”

The proposal would become effective with the selection of the new editor during the middle of the school year if
the plan is approved.

Trustee Reception

The SGA will hold a reception for the Board of Trustees on Thursday, October 25th at 9:00 p.m. in the
foyer of Chambers. All members of the college community, students especially, are invited to attend.
