Delts Picked To Re By CAPTAIN AMERICA And NO BUCKY

League 1 is C.A.'s choice for the best balanced league in flickerball. However, balance is a questionable word here as looking to be the class (I use the word loosely) of this athletic wasteland is either the North Main Gozinas or Emanon 1. The Gozinas are led by part-time small town newspaper editor Alec “Hawk” Binnn and with Calvin Allen and Frank (foul ball) Folger, they will easily be up there. The other experienced team in the league is ATO. Unfortunately, the now infamous squad has caught C.A.'s eye. The Altoona Aardvarks have that added momentum that comes from a screwy name. The AA’s took seven out of eleven watermelons at the freshman meeting and were champs enough players. Chip (the Phantom) Stone and Johnny Rodgers (no, not the little guy who played for Nebraska) will lead the inexperienced outfit. Tennis coach Jeff Frank will pitch in also.

The Davidsonian September 21, 1973 Page Seven

C-2-B, sister team of C-1-A, will bring up the rear. I hope they can keep it up. Freshmen are known for their flickerball ineptness, so when a hall splits up they are begging to be decimated. Look for these two squads to be the turkeys of the campus this fall.

League 4 is the strongest overall league. C.A. has got to go with the tribe, the Cleveland Indians. Names such as Rodgeman, Sanchez, Plemons, and “Big Bad” John Bird.C III ‘e _will be flickering their way to notoriety all season long.

FRANKLIN D U-V C
Look for PDG and SAE to battle right behind the Tribe. SIBLEY, ROBERT EDWARD — d
Should Cleveland falter, C.A. says that SAE will pick up the slack. The Delts are just too strong. Their candidates Chris Young and Marty Williamson. The League is simple to predict. (C.A. is real good at simple things). The Delts are on top all the way. No one will come close to last year's champs. Their spirit is inexhaustible. They should repeat as champs this year. The KA’s could be close, but they lost some people and they are in there with the Delts. C.A. says, “Good luck.”

Appliances
BRAWLEY
664-2838
E.W. C 28115

Tables, ranges, and refrigerators.

Your charge

ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.
170 N. Main

SEE
Mike Pappas
Dick Richardson
Bill Smith
Brad Tipler
Rollie White
892-1467 or 1424
Mooresville (6 miles north)