Allocated Funds Boost South Asian Projects
By JIM PAULSEN
Contributing Editor

After over three years of operation, SASASAS (Southern Atlantic States Association for South Asian Studies) has written proposals for a
quarter of a million dollars worth of projects, all of which have been funded and implemented. SASASAS is an institution
which was formed by Davidson and other colleges to help raise funds for and stimulate the development of South Asian
study programs in the southeastern part of the United States.

“The benefits to Davidson College from all the activity of SASASAS include the SASASAS programs running on campus and the
publicity that Davidson has received regionally and nationally, including the fact that Davidson College is seen as the prime mover
institution in SASASAS,” said Frederick Gaige, Chairman of the Executive Committee of SASASAS and professor of South Asian Studies.

Gaige pointed out that there have been numerous other benefits from SASASAS beyond the funding and coordination of South Asian
programs. One such benefit has been sponsoring a two-year program to assist professors of Asian-African studies in developing a training
program designed to aid the instructors of the North Carolina public schools in teaching Asian-African studies. “The state of North
Carolina is thought of nationally as having perhaps the most progressive public school system. This is partly due to the
funds from SASASAS,” said Gaige.

A second program which is just now being proposed plans to send teachers of dance, music, and drama to India
to study these subjects and hopefully incorporate Indian dance, music, and drama in their courses. “We have plans to develop
a rotating seminar between SASASAS campuses which will bring in nationally known specialists of South Asia to speak to interested
students and faculty,” said Gaige. “We will also sponsor a conference on the internationalization of the undergraduate curriculum for interested
faculty and administrators from all over the Southeast,” he added.

Other future projects include coordinating plans for study abroad in South Asia among member institutions, and the development of a
union catalog for South Asian materials and an interlibrary loan system for these materials. “It is amazing how much the
association has accomplished in terms of raising money and developing programs,” said Gaige.

Some of the accomplishments of SASASAS include a summer Hindi language program at Davidson, sending a group of professors to
India and Pakistan, and bringing in a visiting professor from India. “It is a credit to President Spencer and Vice
President Bevan and certain leading faculty members that they have understood and supported the role that Davidson College has played
in assisting with the development of the broader educational community of which it is a part,” concluded Gaige.

Besides Davidson, SASASAS includes Appalachian, Augusta College, Duke, Furman, Guilford, Mary Washington, Meredith, N.C. State, St. Andrews, Sweet Briar, UNC-Charlotte,
UNC-Greensboro, University of South Carolina, University of Virginia, and Warren-Wilson College.

The Davidsonian
October 12, 1973

Conference Day
October 17 has been set aside for students to meet with their advisors and formulate plans for the coming year
at Davidson. The following schedule was posted by Dean of Students Will Terry.

9-12 Freshman Testing
9-10 Individual Conferences with Majors and Major Advisers
8:30-12:30 Panel Discussion for those Undecided about majors
Perkins Auditorium
Chambers Banquet Hall
Faculty Offices
Panel: Messrs. Hight, Bevan, Kincaid, Robert Sigmon

1:30-3:30 Meeting of Students Interested in Vocations with Professionals in the Area.
Pre-med
Pre-law
Pre-min
ROTC
Pre-managerial
Pre-education
Hodson Hall
Chambers 310
Chambers 228
Perkins Auditorium
ROTC Department
Chambers 203

The Honors Center's Program
Honors Center Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan has strongly urged all students, freshmen and upperclassmen alike, to
participate in the second College Conference Day. “This is an excellent opportunity for all students to make definite plans regarding
their future after they leave Davidson. If students ignore this chance, they will only hurt themselves in the long run,”
Bevan remarked. He also indicated that this is the first year that the college has featured this kind of a
program, and that its future will be strongly dependent on student participation this year.

Bell Strives For Resurrection Of Football Funding Debate
By PAUL WELCH
Staff Writer

In conjunction with the SGA Athletic Committee, sophomore Senator Stephen Bell last week opened what he calls a “campaign” to
ensure that the Trustees of Davidson College are kept informed of true student and faculty opinions.Opinion on the subsidization of
the Davidson-Hosts International betterment of the college. Perhaps the greatest contribution that these people make is in the field of
their own individuality. Each of the international students at Davidson this year brings with him a freshness and a new
experience that this college and this country is to them. They also bring a wisdom - the wisdom of objective
outlook. The comparisons with other countries and other schools that these students will make are fascinating and usually flattering of
Davidson.

The majority of these students came to Davidson through the International Scholars Program. The prospective student must submit various essays
and appear before various review boards before being accepted for a scholarship. The competition for these positions is great, and
the recipients are of high caliber. One of these students, Nadeem Faizi of Pakistan, spoke glowingly of Davidson. “I have
travelled in this country from Miami to Tennessee, and Davidson is the most unreal place among these.” He added, “I
like to say it is most like Heaven.” Other students echoed Nadeem's praise. Alexander Bol of Holland suggested that “Everybody
here tries to help you; there is a brother influence.”

On the subject of co-education, the students, particularly the males, voiced in all cases the belief that co-education is good.
“You're not living a full life if you don’t mix up with girls,” said Tarun Prabhakar from India. “There should
definitely be girls.” “I think girls should be provided a chance to come here,” said Faizi. “Boys find how the
other half of mankind perceives things.”

The range of opportunities available here at Davidson is another subject of high praise for the college. It seems that
Davidson only lacks a cricket team from being perfect. The variety of sports available for study is a source of
wonderment for international students. “Here, I play soccer, I use the weight room, and almost anything I have time for.
In Holland, I would beg for an hour to get a ball to play five minutes, and, even then, the
fields might be in use,” said Bol.

The students say that their experience is enriched by their host families. These people act as friends for the students
and perhaps entertain them when studies permit. “I guess in a small college you have the advantage of a host
family that you couldn’t have in a larger school,” said Prabhakar. Perhaps the only criticism is that the students of
Davidson learn but do not examine. The Davidson student comes to school with an embedded background and does not stray
from his hedonistic pursuits. Faizi reminded that Aristotle once said, “A life unexamined is not worth living.”

A resolution for the desubsidization of football (i.e., the discontinuation of the practice of granting football scholarships) was passed by
a very small plurality, with three senators abstaining. In Bell’s opinion, the majority of Davidson students favor the desubsidization of
football, but the trustees are unaware of this fact. Bell submitted to the SGA last spring a resolution for the
desubsidization of football. The dissenting senators made sure that the trustees were made aware of the closeness of this vote
at their last meeting in the spring of 1973, when subsidized football was one of the main topics under discussion.

“I can’t help suspecting,” said Bell, “that the closeness of the vote cast doubt from the trustees’ point of view
as to whether or not the majority of students really were in favor of the desubsidization of football. I think
that this is one of the more blatant examples in recent years of Senate misrepresentation of actual student attitudes.”

The first step in the campaign came in the form of a letter which was placed in all the dormitory
mailboxes during Homecoming Weekend. Distributed by the SGA Athletic Committee, the letter called attention to the fact that the continuation
of subsidized football supposedly costs each student $160 annually. This works out to a cost of $40 per home game
this year. Bell also intends to try and start a letter-writing drive with the goal of letting the trustees know
how Davidson students actually feel about the football program and its place at Davidson. He says that there will probably
be more letters sent out to students and other attempts made to stimulate student interest prior to another meeting of
the Board of Trustees in late October. The resolution he submitted to the SGA last spring will also be presented
again in the Oct. 16 meeting of that body, with perhaps more representative results. “Hopefully,” declared Bell, “the result of
all of this will be a more positive contribution by the students when the Trustees again consider the issue of
the desubsidization of football.”
