Page Eight April 20, 1973 The Davidsonian

Netters Clip Apps 5-4 In Clutch Match
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

Playing with all the finesse of a clutch team, the Davidson tennis squad captured a narrow 5-4 win over Appalachian
Wednesday to virtually assure the Wildcats of the regular season conference title for 1973.

“I thought we played very, very well considering the adverse conditions we had to face,” praised head coach Jeff Frank.
Those conditions included several new experiences for the team this year. For instance, they had to play under a dome
because of the rain which fell all day. This took an extra drive to reach the ‘Bubble’, as the domed
courts are called, following the two-hour trip to Boone.

Secondly, the match did not begin until 5:30 p.m., even though it was scheduled to commence at 2:00. Adding even
more pressure was the element of not being able to play but three matches at a time, due to the
lack of court space. The Bubble has only three courts.

Fourthly, the matches were played on hard courts. The Cat netters are not at all used to this type of
composition, since they play the vast majority of their matches on clay courts. Above and beyond all these problems, the
Mountaineers had the team that many said should beat Davidson for the title this season.

Defying all these odds, the Cats fought hard. It paid off as they grabbed the victory. Keith Richardson took the
win in the number one singles position, defeating David Weaver by a score of 6-0, 7-5. Frank emphasized that he
thought Weaver would have had a much better chance to win had the match been outside and on clay courts,
which will be the case during the conference tournament next weekend at Furman.

Rick Keller continued the Mountaineer winning ways as he stopped Kevin Menton in three sets, 3-6, 6-4, 6-4. The Cats
swiped the ensuing three singles matches beginning with Bill Allen's win over Roger Neely. It took Allen three sets to
finish the tough App netter, 4-6, 6-2, 7-5. Maarten Ruys took another three-set victory as he topped David Rouse, 4-6,
6-2, 6-2. Hi Lankenau completed the Cat string of wins with a 6-2, 6-2 smashing of David Richardson in straight
sets.

Don Eason defeated Rick Quinby, 6-4, 7-6 to give the Apps a tie at three-all going into the doubles events.
In the opening doubles match, Weaver and Ruys combined to whip Richardson and Keller by a tally of 6-2, 6-4.
It was the first loss this season for the Mountaineer number one doubles team. Weaver and Ruys pushed their season
mark up to 16-1.

“I thought it was the best doubles team we have met the entire season except for UNC's number one duo,”
commented the 28-year-old Frank. “I was especially pleased with this win.”

The number three doubles match was played next. Davidson lost this one as Jim Dorsett and Gary Bressler fell to
Neely and Richardson, 6-4, 6-4. In the clutch match of the evening, Allen and Menton took a straight-set victory over
Rouse and Eason, 7-5, 6-1 to secure the win for the Cats.

Frank especially praised the play of Allen and Lankenau in the singles and the Weaver-Ruys doubles combination. “I thought it
would be a close match when we left,” said Frank. “I think that we would have a much better chance
on clay courts out-of-doors, though.”

Davidson is looking very good for the upcoming tournament. Weaver should be one of the top four seeds at the
top position, while Menton will be either first or second at the number two seed, if he wins his match
against William and Mary. Allen, Ruys, and Lankenau should all have the top seeds at their spots, while Quinby will
probably go in seeded third. Weaver and Ruys will hold the number one doubles seed while the Allen-Menton and Dorsett-Bressler
teams will be seeded second at the number two and three doubles slots, respectively.

(See NETTERS, page 11)

By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

Davidson's baseball team is in a dismal slump and is looking for a way out. The team has lost its
last seven games and in the last four games have been outscored 26-4 by their opponents. First yearCoach Jack Burris
is not exactly sure what is causing this slump. His team seemed headed for one of Davidson's best records when
the team was 8-2, but now the record is at 8-9. When asked about the team's problem, Burris said, "I
can't find out what is wrong, but I wish I knew." He indicated that the big problem seemed to be
the team's inability to get hits when men are on base. The team seems to be "too tight" and "pressing,"
according to Burris.

East Carolina came to Davidson last Friday with a team which has been nationally ranked at times this season. The
first game showed E.C.U.'s power as the Pirates ripped through the Cats for a 12-0 victory. Joe Duncan pitched for
the Cats and had a rare bad game. In the second game of the twin-bill, the Cats seemed headed for
a big upset as they led 1-0 going into the fifth inning. East Carolina, with the aid of one Davidson
error, was able to pick up three runs in the fifth. Freshman Joel Tew pitched another good game for the
Cats. His pitching has bolstered the team all year long.

The team traveled to the Citadel last Sunday for another conference game against the Citadel. The Bulldogs beat the Cats
6-3, although starter Dwight Plemmons went all the way. Gary Pomeroy was the hitting star for the Cats as he
hammered a double and a triple. In the final game last week against Pfeiffer on Tuesday, the Cats’ hitting failed
them as they were shut out 5-0. Burris stated his hope that the team can get back on track in
this week's games. "After one win I hope the team can return to the form they had achieved earlier in
the year," he said.

Willets Regains Form For Cats
By BOB WETZEL
Staff Writer

Athletes often have trouble coming back from knee injuries. A change of position can also present problems for a sports
performer. Senior Jack Willits, the captain of this year's Davidson baseball squad, has had to face both of these problems.
An all-star performer in high school, Willits was an all-Southern Conference and all-North Carolina selection at shortstop for the Cats
during his sophomore year. However, last season his batting average dropped from .354 to .283 and fielding errors ensued as
Willits was hampered by torn knee cartilage. He still managed to lead the Davidson team in home runs for the
second consecutive year, but overall it was a disappointing season for a player who had never previously hit below .300.

This season Willits is in center field for the Cats and is hitting a hefty .380 thus far. "I was
worried after last year," he admitted. "I'd never played center before, but (George) Weicker and (Bill) Todd (the other Davidson
outfielders) have been a big help." Willits noted that his transition has been made easier by this year’s better team
attitude. "This is the most relaxed team that I've played on at Davidson," he commented.

Willits gives most of the credit for the squad's improved morale to first-year coach Jack Burris and his assistants, Jim
Lassiter and Major D. Allen. "We are very fortunate to have three men like them coaching," he noted. Willits rates
this edition of the Davidson diamondmen as potentially the strongest he's seen here. "We're strong at every position, and I
think we're coming closer to realizing our potential than we've done previously," he stated. He added that the Cats will
be even stronger if Ross Manire and Marshall Case can overcome the injury jinx.

ABORTION INFORMATION
ABORTION GUIDANCE
An abortion can be arranged within 24 hours and you can return home the same day you leave!
CALL TOLL FREE (800) 523-4436
A Non-Profit Organization open 7 days a week

Hattie’s Grill
HAPPY HOUR
Tues.-Fri.
Mugs — 20¢ 7-8
Pitchers of 58 oz. — 1.00
Football Tournament every Wed. at 9
Prize for a two-man team is a half case of beer
