LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Davidsonian Distorts Story

To the Editor:

I would like to register my protest to an article that appeared in the Nov. 9 issue. It concerned the
"flip" of WDAV by the station’s faculty board of directors. According to the inferences in this story, the station’s management
has until this point willingly allowed obscene songs on the air. The caption appearing beneath station manager Robert Touchton’s picture
states that because of the board’s decision WDAV has had to change its policies. This is not the case.

When I first joined the staff of WDAV I had to sign a statement saying that, among other things, I
would refrain from playing obscene songs. All announcers had to sign this statement, therefore it has been the consistent policy
of WDAV to discourage, indeed prohibit, offensive songs. The article makes it sound as if the board of directors is
a bunch of nasties out to spoil some good clean fun. The letter that I received from the board was
merely a reminder to everyone on the staff of our commitment to the station and the high ideals of Davidson
College. It also mentioned the fact that obscene songs were in violation of federal law, a point that is not
brought out until the final paragraph (the garbage paragraph) of the news story.

It is the FCC that all radio stations are ultimately responsible to, no matter what the faculty board of directors
may or may not condone. Had the board of directors refrained from sending this letter around, the station’s staff would
still be legally responsible not to play these questionable songs. I am of the opinion that THE DAVIDSONIAN made a
bigger deal out of the "censorship" than was merited.

Bucky Neal, ’77
Davidson College

The Davidsonian
November 30, 1973

---

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN

Acute Faculty Guest Wears Out Welcome

By ROBERT J. MANNING
Professor of Physics

I'm sure it might be of some interest to a few of you to know exactly how these columns come
into being. I mean, there they've been, every week since the beginning of the fall term, dispensing wisdom like nose
drops, where before all was Without Form and Void. Do they come utterly unbidden, like toadstools in the night? Hardly.

I've written three of the blessed things so far, trying to find one that would do. The first was a
fairly decent piece on science education which became increasingly pompous and pretentious the longer I thought about it. I may
send it to a journal. The next centered on the Purpose of the College, and was an attempt to distinguish
the terms "purpose," "function," and "design." There’s fruit to be picked there, I think, but not now and not here.

It really began in early September, when a student representative paid a call to request that I submit an article.
The flattery was short-lived. "Everybody is doing them," he said. "You can do one for next week, or for November
26." That settled that. What topic did he have in mind? "Anything!" he replied brightly. Think of it. You could
be reading about Cat Worming in the Magyar Republic, 1753-57; or Niphthing - the Art of Sculpture in Toenail Parings,
or... Anything.

What is it about the title Professor that makes most of you and many of us believe we can write
on Anything? Ludkin (1) points out that student perception of faculty, and faculty perception of itself, are over-rated by factors
of 73 percent and 46 percent respectively, when compared to objectively measurable performance criteria. Surely this means something.

Actually there are a few things on my mind, and as long as I’ve got the space I want to
set them down:

1) Who knows for sure that Year-Round Daylight Savings Time will save us energy? I know our Congressman believes it;
and I guess if you see it in the Congressional Record it's so, but has anybody gotten down to figuring
out why?

2) Why is Charles I buried between Henry VIII and Jane Seymour? I mean between! Here’s Harry Tudor, Defender of
the Faith, Supreme Head of the Church in England, with the only wife to give him a live son, and,
if we can believe the BBC, the only one he really cared about, and smack-dab separating them, right fat-damn in
the middle, this pointy-bearded, vrei chified, poker-backed, psalm-saying caricature of a Pap Stuart lies like a belch in a sermon.

3) Who can rectify the abomination of the 4-inch hot dog and the 6-inch bun? Put your answers in the
form of a unified essay.

1 Ludkin, L.R., “Odd Measurements", (Whitley Press, Nottingham, 1968), p. 631. Actually there is no Ludkin; I made him up.
This will teach you to read footnotes but not to believe them.

---

Open Letter To Students

Exiled Graduate Requests Amnesty

The students who entered Davidson as freshmen in 1969 graduated last spring. I suppose I can consider myself a...Small generation
away from the present student body. Your generation seems further away if I compare the late sixties with the early
seventies. Two months after I graduated in 1970, I emigrated to Canada. In October I received a notice from my
local draft board ordering me to report for induction, and I wrote to inform them that I would not appear.
Presently I am under indictment, which means that I could be apprehended and tried if I returned to the U.S.
(even if I were to become a Canadian citizen). The maximum possible sentence is five years in prison and a
$10,000 fine, although CCCO (Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors) has reviewed my file and concluded that I probably could get
probation and alternative service. The draft is no longer active, but males are still required by law to register at
the age of 18. Full induction authority can be restored by a simple joint resolution of Congress, altering the expiration
of Section 17 (c) of the Selective Service Act. The new volunteer army is not working, and the draft in
some form almost certainly will be restored within two years. The lottery began in the fall of 1969, and I
got a bad number. I passed my physical. I was accepted by the Peace Corps, but in the spring of
1970 Nixon ended all such deferments by executive decree. I went to Washington in November 1969, along with half a
million others. I stood in the vigil across the road from the post office after the invasion of Cambodia. I
talked to the Quakers in Charlotte about going to prison. I refused a Fulbright teaching fellowship for France, and three
graduate fellowships for study in the U.S. These are some of the things I remember from my last year at
Davidson. Of course, the strategy of the lottery was divide and conquer. And that is what it did. Only those
few with bad numbers really had anything at stake, or any decision to make. Starting in the fall of 1970,
the campuses were quiet. The lottery went hand-in-hand with the job crisis and the trend to nostalgia. The war in
Vietnam is far from “over.” The scale is smaller and American involvement is less direct. The main reason that sizeable
American forces are not fighting there now is that most Americans came to believe that the war was a mistake.
Nixon had to stop bombing Cambodia because his own credibility was severely damaged by Watergate. Yet in June the Senate
approved $150 million in military appropriations for that country, and recently the American Embassy in Cambodia has stated that $170
million will not be enough for the current fiscal year. Approximately $50 million a year had been spent only on
the bombing of Cambodia. Recently I was told by a Washington columnist that right now Americans just want to forget
that the war ever happened. America is still morally capable of a Vietnam. In “Home from the War: Vietnam Veterans
- Neither Victims nor Executioners,” Robert Lifton has argued that America needs to confront and overcome what it did in
Vietnam. He maintains that a declaration of amnesty could play a fundamental role in bringing about reconciliation and moral regeneration.
Now entering my fourth year in Canada, I have spent most of my time here ‘in the woodwork,’ suffering from
mild paranoia and content to have my American background remain in the background. Until recently, my only relationships with other
exiles have been limited and accidental. A number of exiles have associated primarily with other Americans, while my closest acquaintances
have been Canadian. My present position is not the result of an inability to assimilate. In early 1972, the mass
media began to give coverage to the movement for amnesty, although the popularity of the issue has fluctuated in the
meantime. With the declaration of a ceasefire in Vietnam and an enforced halt to the bombing in Cambodia, I believe
that the question of amnesty has become a living one. My present activity in behalf of amnesty is only a
logical extension of my original refusal to support the American military’s actions in Southeast Asia. In addition to individual efforts
such as this open letter, I have begun to work in my spare time for AMEX-CANADA, a magazine published by
American exiles in Canada, which celebrates its fifth birthday with the current issue. In May 1973 amnesty conferences were held
in Washington, D.C., and in Toronto. Out of these conferences grew the National Council for Universal Unconditional Amnesty (NCUUA). The
twelve-member steering committee includes Vietnam Veterans Against the War and the Southern Conference Educational Fund. “Universal” means that the amnesty
would apply to all of those who need amnesty. Common estimates for the number of exiles in Canada range between
twenty and fifty thousand, and the number of American exiles in other countries is small by comparison. (See EXILED, page
12)
