ALAN BARAGONA

Mott Leaves Blind

To my last. Sincerely (more or less), Mott the Wopple.

P.S. Now that I've managed to destroy Davoidson and all its tenuous inhabitants (I thought that was a pretty good bit, didn’t you? Where the Masked Nid comes upon a magic wand at Erwin Lodge and, thinking it a phony, unwittingly wipes out Don Guappo's family and Katamite Kayrat in mid-slash and Flakely in mid-burgle, and just as Pearl lands to the rescue, he says, ‘Good-bye, cruel Davoidson,’ and the fountain jets Elroy into the stratosphere, and the column ends in mid-sentence. Like it? I stole it from an Archie comic book.), I can get on with the old “reminisce” bit in private.

It seems a little odd to dissolve this venture so soon after the first anniversary of the founding of anti-journalism (didn’t I tell you?), that night in front of a cumbersome H.C. monstrosity-writer, figuring that pacing off the distance between Eu Hall and Phi was as earth-shaking as warning everybody about the threat of Watergate to the Continuing College Community. While everyone raves in four-year-end tirades about the futility, the disgruntling waste of it all, I find that things that used to make me bitter now seem stupid and pitiful and not worth the trouble. I reserve my disgust for aesthetic aberrations (Helen Reddy, oh so wise; Rod McKuen, oh so lachrymose; Voices, oh so propagandistic; Youth Culture, oh so dull-witted): a mild form of cynicism at most and maybe horrendous in that but I don't really think it should matter to you.

What should? Oh, I don't know. Maybe starting to clear the air of all those cliché arguments that keep muddling up the view, those little self-justifying, half-baked notions like “Books ain't no good ‘cause they ain't real life” and “The Chicago riots were a ‘Festival of Life’” and “Gosh, young people are just so much better off than their parents because they don’t have so many hang-ups” and “If we were running things, none of this crap would have happened.” There was an eighteen-year-old guy on TV last Tuesday who honest-to-God believes that comics invented the idea of a Superman, a revolutionary hero-cult in human culture. Gilgamesh, Achilles, Rama, Beowulf, Roland, Sigurd, Gargantua, and Zarathustra (among others) bite the dust at one fell stroke by the hope of America. And there are the ones who raise Jagger on their banner because “he’s such an arrogant sonuvabich” but let squinty-eyed Agnew open his trap, and the overbearing, unreasoning self-confidence of the man causes pandemic nausea. Rightly so but don’t look closely at the Stones’ rehearsals, Devotees, or you'll see the careful blueprint of superficial cool, phony right down to its Tom Jones core. And does Rennie Davis use Nixon's speech-writers? “And when you're high you enjoy everything!” And when you enjoy everything, you enjoy nothing. “And Davidson sure is closed to educational change; it sure is an impediment to my true education!” And when they talk about relinquishing grades, and with them GPA, class rank, Phi Beta Kappa and grad school, listen to the screams of the reactionary young.

Davoidson whirlpooling its history around my ears, which listen to a century and more of youth singing “Yes I am wise” even down to today, tripping like a string of dominoes on the same stumbling blocks with only a slight variation along the edges of each. Ha. Ha. Ha. And don't think the Continuing College Community get off easy because their sacred trusts (us) are no better than they. The CCC have their own little subculture, a social structure of inefficiency and pettiness, whose workings are known by sociologists as the Runaround. I happen to be in the last phase of Runaround 4. See, you in R1, what you have to look forward to? Begin the count of how many will be spun off somewhere between R2 and R3.

SURE YOU CAN KID!

Farewell Bid To Davidson Of Lead Blind

But I will leave that bit of invective to the others, who will certainly have their fill investigating, exposing, complaining. And they will. But it won't go any further. Because, despite common opinion, the blind-spawned blind cannot lead the blind. It makes you want to wipe it all away. Take this that you're reading here. Take the editorialists, the columnists, the letterists. Or take the Masked Nid there, with that wand in his hand, shouting, ‘Good-bye cruel las.’

“And now forever, brother, hail and farewell.” This translation of an epigraph by Catullus is better known perhaps from an elegy written to Baudelaire by Swinburne, who never even knew his contemporary. It is appropriate in two respects: first, if a farewell address is the executive privilege of senior columnists, then indeed this is no fond tata, but final in the sense that no alumnus may return to Davidson after four years as a student without realizing how far apart.he has already grown; and second, in the sense that this farewell is dedicated to a Davidson I knew when I first came here that is no more, and will not be again. I have regrets, but they are outweighed by the positive changes which have come to the campus in recent years and by, as Wolfe calls them, "some things which never change."

My first ovation goes to the step forward in academic history three years ago when the Honors College was opened to students who wanted an education in addition to a grade. The pilot group which began my sophomore year was a motley one, but with the recent efforts to improve the program at least in principle, I look forward to the time when a vigilant faculty will remove most of the bugs and zeros from this home for wayward brains.

Somewhat reluctantly I admit my general satisfaction with the new social system built on the ruins of an old fraternity which collapsed in name, if not in number, three years ago. Student ingenuity and a lot of hard work in all the houses on the court have removed many of the restrictions and inequities of the old system without attempting to change what a blundering and unconscionable administration at that time could not accept: human nature. The compromise setup, despite a few diehard SPE’s and the moral arrogance of President Spencer, appears to offer an amiable and varied choice of social life to every student. It would certainly be an indiscretion now for any pseudo-altruistic independent to petition the administration on the grounds that he cannot find his niche on Patterson Court.

Coeducation has promise, but to date it prompts little optimism since by definition, it still has failed to educate the minority sex on campus. We have had girls of questionable sex in some cases, as well as questionable aptitude and insight. Several brilliant exceptions to this do exist, and it behooves the admissions office to reinforce their number in coming years instead of filling quotas for Gloria Steinem. It seems that in this case as is typical the administration began to bring girls in for practice before principle, but there will be a time in the near future when the presence of a female student will offer Davidson a knowledge that is more than carnal.

In the past, one of Davidson's strongest points has been the respect it commands from graduate schools on which its role as a liberal arts college rests. With the growing pinch on getting into grad and professional schools, Davidson cannot allow its reputation to waver. Already this year, for example, it seems that students at UNC, per capita or otherwise, are getting a fine share of grad school choices, certainly with as much chance as Davidson students for the top slots. This is no one’s fault, but with the incredible number of applications for a few positions (e.g. 4500 for 281 posts at UVA law school), such things as pull, who you know, become as important as what you know. Davidson must unfortunately adjust to such tactics in order to compete with every mother’s son, so every effort must be made to maintain strong contacts in the desirable grad schools.

The next amazing revelation concerns the administration, which, aspersions aside, is a highly qualified and gifted one. The only obstruction to efficiency consists of a few minor idiosyncrasies of the top men. President Spencer has made conciliatory efforts recently with the faculty and student body, and as one reporter a few weeks ago remarked, his energy and dedication are beyond reproach. Mr. Cornell, overlooking his fetish for not shining his shoes, is a brilliant financier, creative and competent on the job. Will Terry has a better rapport with the students than a student body president, though he makes enough mistakes to qualify as a human being, not a papal authority. The list improves as you go down the ladder of success, and such figures as Bevan, Ostwalt, Burts, and Currie need no introduction.

I could go on to applaud such innovations as career-service, self-scheduled exams, Extended Studies, and the demise of the area exams which indicate a move toward greater flexibility and variety and a shift away from the monotony of a rigid classroom situation. But there is one other figure on campus who deserves mention. That is the present editor of this newspaper. In four years there has not been a better one. Unlike past editors who have thrived on cheesecloth and administrative foot-kissing, he has a sense of fair-mindedness that balances well with the front page news. For the first time in years I actually find the editorials interesting reading, logical and earnest, though I often disagree with them. With a little work, it may not be long before people once again believe what they read in THE DAVIDSONIAN. But that will be for others to say, for mad Davidson will hurt them into writing, and the most positive thing anyone will say about them is that they do not go