Two TS November 9, 1973 The Davidsonian Spencer, C By MARK WILENSKY Asst. Managing Editor

“The action of the Trustees was directed not just at football, but at the entire athletic program,” said Samuel R.
Spencer Jr. Together with incoming Athletic Director Thom Cartmill and Southern Conference Representative John M. Bevan, Spencer appeared at a
Union-sponsored Open End Monday night to answer questions concerning the future of Davidson's athletic program.

While the majority of questions dealt with the future of Wildcat football, of prime concern to many of those in
attendance was the plan to upgrade the “minor sports.” Spencer and Cartmill both stated that the college is definitely committed
to the improvement of such sports as track, but indicated that changes made will have to come slowly and at
the initiative of those involved in these sports.

"$25,000 was put into the minor sports at the request last week. We need to evaluate each sport in terms
of what we need - evaluate minor sports’ staffs and develop them,” said Bevan. “The new system of football funding
will remove the method by which football eclipsed the importance of the minor sports,” Bevan added. “We are looking to
upgrade the minor sports rather than just to cut the budget.”

Cartmill predicted that the total athletic budget would probably be cut little, if at all, saying that money will be
needed as much as it was before. “We will support club athletic teams, football, basketball, and all of the minor
sports. This will cost money,” he said. “The emphasis on our varsity program will not change, only the schedule will.
The players and coaches will still have to work hard, but now they should have a better chance for success.”

Spencer admitted that the job of recruiting will be tougher. “We'll have to sell the Davidson education. We're still helping
a lot of football players get a good education,” he said. “By developing our program into a winning one, we'll
be offering a boy as much money as he needs to come to school, giving him a chance to play
ball and opening up contacts with Davidson alumni that may help if the parents' financial situation should change.”

Bevan likened the special treatment from the financial aid office to the treatment blacks and children of alumni now get
from the administration. “Those three groups get preferential treatment from the financial aid office,” he said. “This indicates an ability
to add a specific talent to the college, such as drama, music, or art talents,” Bevan said.

Wildcat Club funds may be used to give help to athletes competing in the minor sports, but that will be
decided later and will depend on the availability of funds. There is also the possibility that the recruiting budgets of
the minor sports will be increased.

Staff photo by Lott DISCUSSING FOOTBALL New Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill (left) and college President Samuel R. Spencer discuss recent
Trustee changes involving the football program at Monday night's Open End.

Editors: BRUCE CORSER, MARK DEATON, CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Sports Editors: JIM SITTERSON, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Associate Editors: ALAN BLAKLEY, DOUG BROWN, TOM BRUCE, STEVE CANTERBURY, TODD EADES, JOE EARLE, MARY HOBBIE, RICHARD ROMEYN, MILES WARD
Contributing Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, PHILIP BISHOP, DAVID HANIG, ANDY LAMAS, HUGH MOORE, JIM PAULSEN
Technical Assistant: BILL ELLETT
Asst. Managing Editors: LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, LARRY MIMMS, MARK WILENSKY
Photography Editor: PETE GOODMAN
News Editor: HARRIETT HODGES
Assistant Features Editors: ALAN FORD, FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Assistant Sports Editor: MARK CONNORS
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKCOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Asst. Business Managers: PHIL STYKES, DAVID TRADER
Typists: CHOLLET STILL, PATTI SHANKWEILER
Contributors this week: Ann Bode, Greg Dunn, Vic Fleming, Bill Giduz, Chuck Kennon, Joe McMillian, Will Robertson, and Lex Veazey.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.Local Gasoline Pricing
By ALEC HOON

The Davidson Chapter of NC-PIRG began its investigative operations during the week of October 19-23 with a gasoline survey of
57 stations in the Davidson area to determine prices and octanes. The results of the just-released survey indicate that the
overall lowest-priced stations were the 7-Eleven and Ole stations in Cornelius and the Hi-Val-U station in Mooresville.

“But this information should be of value to you in buying gas, and perhaps, it will have an impact on
gasoline prices in the area,” he said. The lowest-priced stations were 7-Eleven and Ole in Cornelius, Hi-Val-U south of Mooresville,
and Savaton north of Charlotte. Perhaps significantly, neither 7-Eleven nor Ole had their octane ratings posted. The most expensive regular
gas was Milledge Gulf on US 21 at I-85. The lowest-priced middle octane was Smith’s Sunoco's 93 octane ‘220’ brand.
Smith Sunoco is on NC 115 just north of Davidson. Savaton's “premium 500” was also an inexpensive middle octane. The
most expensive middle octanes were at Exxon stations in Mooresville and Charlotte, according to the survey.

In premium gas, the lowest prices were found at the same four stations. However, Savaton’s “premium 500” has a low
octane of 93, which puts it in the study’s middle octane category. The most expensive premiums were Milledge Gulf and
Ron's American on US 21 near Huntersville. The lowest-priced low lead gasoline at the few stations which sold it was
Ramey Tire (Gulf) in Mooresville. Gulf was the only regular. The most expensive low lead gases were at American stations
in Huntersville and Mooresville. American, though, has lead-free gas rather than only being low in lead.

Complete information on the survey, including information about services, can be obtained at the NC-PIRG Davidson office in the Student
Union.

Regular gas (88.0-98.5 octane rating)
Cheapest:
- “7-Eleven,” Cornelius 35.9
- “Ole,” NC 73 west, Cornelius 36.9
- “Hi-Val-U,” NC 115 south, Mooresville 36.9
- “Savaton,” US 21 north, Charlotte 36.9

Highest:
- Milledge Gulf, US 21 & I-85 42.9
- Wingate’s Service, NC 115 S, 40.9
- Buck Webb Texaco, US 21 & I-85 40.9

Middle Octanes (91.0-94.5)
Cheapest:
- Smith's Sunoco, NC 115 N, Davidson 39.9
- “Savaton,” US 21 N, Charlotte 39.9

Highest:
- John’s Exxon, 604 Main, Mooresville 43.3
- Statesville Ave. Exxon, US 21 & I-85 43.2

Premium gas (95.0-98.0)
Cheapest:
- “7-Eleven,” Cornelius 38.9
- “Hi-Val-U,” Mooresville 38.9
- “Ole,” Cornelius 39.9

Highest:
- Ron's American, US 21 S, 45.9
- Milledge Gulf, US 21 & I-85 45.9
- Webster's Amoco, US 21, Huntersville 45.6

Cheapest:
- Ramey Tire (Gulf), 372 Main, Mooresville 38.9

Highest:
- Mill's American, 151 S. Broad, Mooresville 42.6
- Webster's Amoco, US 21, Huntersville 42.6

*Savaton’s “Premium 500” brand is classified as “Middle Octane” for that reason.

Discuss Athletics
Minor sports may be increased if the funds permit it. “We're not sure how our contributors will react to the
decision. Some may give less, some more. We'll have to wait and see,” Spencer said. He also noted that there
is little if any chance of the basketball program going in the same direction as football has moved. “The Trustees
were emphatic in their intention that the basketball program remain at the national level and that it is not the
next step in a total switch to a ‘need’ system of athletic scholarships,” Spencer said.

Bevan explained that the Southern Conference has no rules regarding the number of football games a team must play. “A
team has to play five games to be eligible for the Conference championship,” he said, “but there is no rule
that says we must play a set number of games for conference membership.” Cartmill stated that even if Davidson did
leave the Southern Conference, the basketball program would not be affected. The three administrators left a feeling that they felt
Davidson's athletics future would be an improved one. However, that feeling is not universally held.
