The Davidsonian February 16, 1973 Page Three

Humanities: Students Express Opinions
By BOB HOWELL Managing Editor and JIM PAULSEN Contributing Editor

Involving annually some 200 students, the Humanities program evokes a range of student opinions on its strengths and weaknesses. “It
gives you a nice broad survey of a lot of material, which is what I want,” said Sophomore John Randolph.
With emphasis on developing written and oral expression, the two-year sequence traces the history of Western thought from the beginnings
of civilization to the present. “That's part of my complaint,” said Freshman John Steely, “It's forced to cover too much
material in too short a time; it just whets your appetite.”

The program is staffed by 15 professors divided between the two years. Freshman Humanities covers material up to the Renaissance;
the sophomore year continues through the Renaissance to the present. A combination of lectures and discussion groups, of about 15
students per professor, provides the basic format of the course. “It involves a lot of knowledge,” said Freshman Tom Brenner,
“but it takes a lot of time and a lot of reading.” Second-year Humanities student Gray Lindsay concurred that the
workload was heavy, but supported the survey aspect of the program.

Time seems to be a problem with many in the Humanities sequence. Bob Mendenhall, a first-year student, points out, “Most
of the material is pretty interesting, but it takes a lot of your time, and doesn't leave much for your
other courses.” Pre-medical students may have added difficulties if they have lab courses, observed Sophomore Woody Van Meter. “It's been
a burden, so I wouldn't recommend it for all pre-meds. But I'm glad I took it—it's synthesized things I've had
before and kept me from being limited to the sciences,” he explained. David Boggs, a sophomore who hopes to go
to law school, said that Humanities could be a problem for anyone who plans to enter graduate school. “It just
doesn't help your grade point average at all,” Boggs said.

A drawback seen by some freshmen is the amount of student participation in discussion groups. “It is the instructor who
brings out most of the important points,” noted Tom Brenner. “It would be better if students were more actively involved.”
Sophomore students find a change in this area. “In the second year we're given a freer hand, but with more
responsibility,” said Craig Crosswhite, “such as in leading class discussions.” Other sophomores noted changes from the first year. “Last year
the emphasis was to cover all the material in class,” explained Randolph. “Now it’s mostly up to the student to
get it on his own.”

“My grade point has suffered,” added Lindsay, “but I wouldn't have passed up the experience.”

By RICHARD ROMEYN Contributing Editor

As the Humanities sequence moves toward the end of its eleventh year, there seems to be virtually no sentiment among
the faculty for extensive modification of the program. Most members of the program's staff express satisfaction with “Humes” and enthusiasm
for its continuation. “It's a very strong program,” said Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. “It speaks more
to the liberal arts theme than anything else we have.”

(Staff photos by Howell)

“I DISAGREE” Sophomore David Arant enters the debate. “The material's better, and I think it’s one of those things you
appreciate more when you get out of it than when you're in it.” But freshmen noted a change, too. “It's
a tremendously big step from high school to Humanities,” stressed David Gordon. “It will help me in the other programs
I'll take. The readings have been tremendous.”

In evaluating the program, many students would make few actual changes in the course structure, although a common suggestion is
more reading periods. Sentiment was also voiced for including Eastern thought. “Somehow I think you should include Eastern cultures, because
you can't negate half of the world,” said Steely. Some students were concerned that the program did not sufficiently emphasize
the arts, but concentrated too heavily on history, religion, and philosophy. “You're not going to make straight A's,” summarized Crosswhite,
“so you almost have to go into Humanities to enjoy it.”

Humanities Professor Brown Patterson considers student contributions.

Professors Anticipate Few Alterations

Samuel D. Maloney, chairman of the second-year team, characterized the objectives of the program as being two-fold. The first objective
is to acquaint the student with his cultural heritage in the western tradition, so that he might understand...his contemporary culture
and institutions in light of their origins. The second is to evaluate his thoughts and express and defend them both
orally and in writing. The Humanities staff sees the sequence as a survey of western thought and institutions. They feel
the general knowledge gained from the sequence allows a student to specialize during his junior and senior years while placing
specific events in their general historical context. “Humanities allows those who take it to feel at home wherever they might
drop in,” said Daniel Rhodes, chairman of the first-year team. Rhodes said he felt that not only does Humanities provide
a student with a broad background upon which to draw, but it also prepares students for upper-level courses by forcing
them to contribute and participate in a discussion group setting. However, even those who are its most enthusiastic supporters agree
that the Humanities program has some minor problems. One which is frequently mentioned is the small degree of communication between
the first and second-year teams. Members of both teams feel that increased communication between the two staffs would be beneficial.
“Both staffs should get together and discuss overall philosophy,” said Bevan. However, none of those questioned felt that the methods
of approach should be identical. “I think it's great that they are quite different,” said Rhodes. “Students feel they are
following a new course in the second year, rather than just a continuation of the first year.” Rhodes added that
he “would hate to come to a point where either year is bound by what the other is doing.” The
tremendous amount of material which is covered by the sequence is seen by many as one of the program's drawbacks.
While acknowledging that there is a great deal of reading involved, faculty members generally feel that the curriculum has already
been trimmed to the bone. “We are fighting a battle of what we can include and do a decent job
with,” observed Rhodes. Not only has the number of class meetings been cut, but the scope of the program has
been expanded. When the program was first begun in the early 1950s, the second year ended with World War I.
The program now concludes with a survey of the cold war decades. The question of a Humanities major has been
periodically raised and is presently looked upon with something less than enthusiasm by many of those involved with the program.
Maloney said he would like to promote the idea of a Humanities major which would involve adding a program of
non-Western study and an “intercultural experience” such as Junior Year Abroad to the present humanities core. Many of the faculty
do not see such a program as practical. “I would hesitate to require a student to take three years of
Humanities,” said second-year staff member W. Brown Patterson. “It might unnecessarily restrict him.” Rhodes said he would want such a
program only if it could “probe below the surface. I don't think that just another survey course would justify a
major.” Virtually no one favors including non-Western study as a part of the present Humanities program. “It's possible to water
down a program too much,” said George Labban, a member of the first-year team. Members of the Humanities staff see
no major modification in the immediate future. “I like it the way it is,” said Patterson. “We should just keep
reevaluating it.” The Humanities sequence is evaluated periodically by its staff. The second-year team meets every spring to discuss the
previous year and to plan the syllabus for the coming year. Maloney estimates that approximately 10 percent of the reading
materials are changed each year and attributes the turnover to the fact that a great amount of material is available
for the modern periods of history, of which the classics are not yet clearly defined. In contrast to the turnover
of men and material in the second year, the first year has remained virtually intact since it began in 1962.
Rhodes does not see this as evidence of a “sacred cow syndrome” as one student charged but as a reflection
that the possible choices are more readily apparent for the classical era.

EVALUATION

A major evaluation of the entire Humanities program is planned for the spring of this year. All sophomores, juniors, and
seniors who have completed the sequence will be asked to complete a questionnaire assessing various aspects of the course. A
similar evaluation was last conducted in the spring of 1969.
