Page Eight September 28, 1973 The Davidsonian

Cartmill Named New Athletic Director
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Thomas A. Cartmill has been named to replace Tom Scott as athletic director following Scott's retirement. Scott reached the mandatory
retirement age last year but was asked by the college to remain for one more year. Cartmill presently holds the
offices of athletic director and chairman of physical education posts at Saint Lawrence University in Canton, N.Y.

“We’re delighted to be coming to Davidson. This is a new challenge for me and I’m really looking forward to
it,” Cartmill said. Although he will not arrive at Davidson until February or March, Cartmill has been to Davidson and
is familiar with the present state of the athletic department. “I met Coach Fagg when I was down at Davidson
and I understand that the football program is in an awkward situation, with other schools in the Southern Conference receiving
more money than Davidson,” Cartmill stated.

Sidelines
WITH GORDON

New AD: Hope For Future

The announcement of Thomas Cartmill as the new athletic director of Davidson College appears to be a giant step forward
for this institution in the realm of major college athletics. For some time it appeared that someone within the college
was going to be given the nod to replace Tom Scott, who has served the athletic department here very well
with regards to the major sports. I personally felt that finding someone within the college was not the answer since
what Davidson needed was some new blood to revitalize what seems to be a rather slumping program. With the other
schools in the Southern Conference, such as Appalachian, East Carolina, and Furman, beginning to pump more and more financial backing
into their respective athletic programs, the Wildcats were being left behind at rates more alarming than most people were willing
to admit.

It is my hope that Cartmill will come to Davidson with an open mind regarding subsidized athletics and also with
a firm hand when the time comes to deal with the monetary aspects of Wildcat athletics. The present athletic crisis
has also been due to a lack of respect for the minor sports at Davidson. Perhaps Cartmill will be able
to alter these feelings. From the information I have received, Cartmill comes to Davidson with the highest of recommendations and
an impressive background not only in the area of directing college athletics but also with a good deal of experience
and respect within the high ranks of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. I, for one, look forward to the arrival
of Cartmill with great anticipation. He could indeed be the direly needed revitalization for the athletic department here.

Thanks For Helping Out

It also seems in order to thank First Union National Bank for their assistance to WDAV in helping to secure
the funds to broadcast the away football games for the Wildcats. This week's clash with Appalachian will be the inaugural
“sports spectacular” for the campus network—thanks to Bill Bradford, head of the local branch of First Union, for his efforts
in securing this financial assistance.

Jimmy The Greek Revisited

With the recent upset victory over Lenoir Rhyne, the time has now come to resume some predictions for the coming
week's football match-ups. Areawise, let’s go with the Cats over the Mountaineers by six, UNC over Missouri by four, Duke
to Virginia by nine, taking Wake Forest over Maryland, and Georgia over N.C. State by two.

Cartmill did not promise any sweeping modifications in the football program, saying, “It will take time, but I’m sure a
schedule involving smaller schools will be more beneficial.”

“I believe in football and I believe that football has a place at Davidson,” Cartmill added. As far as the
basketball program is concerned, Cartmill plans no changes. “I think the press releases overdid my involvement with hockey; basketball has
always been my main love.”in athletics since I was in high school," Cartmill said. "I have no idea of trying
to pull Davidson's hopes for a nationally ranked team." Cartmill has played and coached intercollegiate basketball. While serving as varsity
soccer and basketball coach at Union College in New York, Cartmill took over a team with a 4-13 record. His
first two teams produced records of 13-3 and 11-0. Cartmill’s overall record as a basketball coach at Union was 38-19.

"I didn’t have a chance to meet coach Holland when I was at Davidson because he was in Australia, but
I think he has done a fine job with the team at Davidson," Cartmill stated. Cartmill, in reviewing the general
state of athletics at Davidson, pointed out, "There are a lot of questions that I don’t have the answers to,
it will just take time after I get there and start working with Dr. Scott." Cartmill will work with Scott
during a transitional period after arriving at Davidson.

In respect to minor sports and club sports, Cartmill is in favor of increasing their budgets, particularly the club sports.
"Once an institution recognizes a program, it must take the responsibility for both surveillance and funding," Cartmill stated. Cartmill stressed,
however, that before the college makes such a commitment, the sport must show a sizable interest from the student body
over a period of three or four years.

Cartmill indicated that in his mind the most pressing matter confronting him when he takes over as athletic director will
be the expansion of the facilities presently open to the student body. "It is certainly presumptuous to say before I
even begin working, but there is a great need for more basketball, handball, and squash courts," Cartmill said. "I think
we might even try to get a couple of indoor tennis courts, and the swimming facilities certainly need improvement," Cartmill
added.

Cartmill also said that working with the student body is the source of his greatest satisfaction as an athletic administrator.
On the subject of athletic facilities for women, Cartmill stressed the need for improvement over what is currently available to
coeds. Cartmill is a 1949 graduate of Springfield College and received his master's degree in 1955 from Johns Hopkins. (Staff
Photo by Goodman)

HEADS UP
Co-captain Tom Tornee heads ball in Guilford match.

Linard Directs Cat Booters To 3-0 Romp Over Guilford
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

The Davidson soccer team began their season with a 3-0 victory over Guilford College on Tuesday. Jack Linard led the
booters, scoring all three goals in the second half. "Jack was all over the field," praised new head coach Chip
Stone. "He could have scored two more goals, but one shot hit the crossbar and the goalie made an unbelievable
stop on another."

Stone was pleased with the team's performance. "We had shots hit the post or the crossbar and their goalie made
some lucky saves when he was caught out of position," Stone stated. Stone felt that the new 2-4-4 formation that
the Cats are using proved to be very effective, particularly on defense. "Our fullbacks did a great job on defense,"
said Stone.

The booters' biggest problem was inexperience, particularly on offense. "The real inexperience comes from the offense in game situations," Stone
explained. "They haven't played together enough." In the second half, Jack Linard started the scoring with two goals in the
first several minutes. Linard’s first two goals were thirty seconds apart. For the rest of the game, the Cats kept
the ball contained to the Guilford end of the field.

Following the game, Stone said, "We did a real good job in our first game, and I am proud of
the job they did." Stone singled out Davidson goalie John Mitchell for recording a shutout in his first start. "John
was real quick out there," Stone praised.

DAVIDSON LIGHTWEIGHT CYCLES
Fine Bicycles And Accessories
117 Depot St.
892-0415
