Two December 21, 1973 Miscellany Contest

Canada this year. All individuals residing in the United States and Canada are eligible for the contest. All submissions must be under consideration by no publication for the duration of the contest. A one dollar entrance fee will be charged per set of four poems and per set of two short stories (or other fiction entries). This fee applies to all entrants except those who are residents of North Carolina or Davidson students. Poems must be limited to 150 lines or less and the author's name and address must appear on each page. All manuscripts must be typed and accompanied by a self-addressed, stamped envelope. Poetry and fiction should be mailed separately. Awards consist of: 1) $100.00 for the first place in each area, 2) $50.00 for second place in each area, 3) Recognition and additional honorable mentions will be given for submissions with subsequent ranking. Submissions must be received no later than Jan. 14, 1974 and finalists and award-winning works will be published in the 1974 Spring issue of ‘The Miscellany’. All contestants will be notified of the staff's decision in May. All entries should be addressed to ‘The Miscellany’, Box 696, Davidson College, Davidson, N.C., 28036.

By MARK WILENSKY
Asst. Managing Editor

Overcoming the challenge of three other candidates, junior Blain Butner emerged from last week's SGA election as the new SGA President. Butner made a runaway of the race, picking up more votes than the combined total of his opponents. In the race for SGA Vice President, sophomore John Guthrie was the winner after a runoff with junior John Cassels. A runoff was also needed for the election of the Managing team for WDAV. Mark Wilensky and Bucky Neal edged Charles Neal and Rory Crawford by a margin of only six votes in the election’s closest balloting. The race for the Hearing Committee of the Class of 1976 was also decided in Wednesday's runoff. Bruce Corser, Mark Firth, Bill Reed, and Joel Tew were forced into a runoff for the three Hearing Committee places with Firth, Reed, and Tew coming out the winners.

Butner Emphasizes Housing, Governance Among Priorities

By MIKE TANNER
Executive Editor

Last week, Blain Butner defeated his three contenders on the first ballot and became the 1974 SGA President. In an interview this week, he discussed those aspects of his campaign platform on which he hopes to focus attention during the coming year. Butner spoke first of the Student Advisory Councils that he has supported this fall. These recently-formed bodies consist of students who will act as liaisons between the student body and the respective academic departments. The council for each department will advise and inform both students and faculty of the comments and suggestions of each other. “These groups will coach the students, but more important, the faculty will get some sort of feedback if they want it too,” he said. Building priorities and governance will also command much of Butner's attention this year. He strongly supports the Trustees' coeducation program which will increase the student body to 1500 by 1980. “Building priorities and coeducation go hand in hand. If Davidson doesn’t soon decide to build..."

Davidsonian Staff

Executive Editor: MIKE TANNER
Managing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, MARK DEATON, CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Sports Editors: JIM SITTERSON, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Associate Editors: ALAN BLAKLEY, DOUG BROWN, TOM BRUCE, STEVE CANTERBURY, TODD EADES, JOE EARLE, MARY HOBBIE, RICHARD ROMEYN, MILES WARD
Contributing Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, PHILIP BISHOP, DAVID HANIG, ANDY LAMAS, HUGH MOORE, JIM PAULSEN
Technical Assistant: BILL ELLETT
Contributors this week: Matthew Covington, Charles Kennon
Asst. Managing Editors: LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, LARRY MIMMS, MARK WILENSKY
Photography Editor: PETE GOODMAN
News Editor: HARRIETT HODGES
Assistant Features Editors: ALAN FORD, FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Assistant Sports Editor: MARK CONNORS
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKCOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Asst. Business Managers: PHIL STYKES, DAVID TRADER
Typists: CHOLLET STILL, PATTI SHANKWEILER
Roger Manley, William Robertson, Lex Veazey.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.De 28036. Yearly sub-sealed iesereseetetatatata eee e's eee ea ee a's eae ee eee a aie owe ewe ee a aurea ate erate are” tn new housing facilities and do it, we won't have any place to put the women who will be coming in. Somebody in the Administration is dragging his feet.”

In his campaign platform, Butner especially favored a thorough examination of the present physical education system. “There’s so much chaos involving the PE program that it really needs to be codified. This means organizing the schedule and the requirements,” he said.

Butner indicated that he has talked with Quips and Cranks Editor-elect Carrol Ensley. He hopes that the senate can work with the yearbook staff to help them turn out an edition more to people’s liking than this year’s. He wants the senate to push changes in the educational requirements and feels that the drop period should be lengthened and that night exams should be implemented before the winter term ends, if possible. “The faculty knows how we feel about these issues, but it’s still to our advantage to continue to let them know.”

Finally, Butner expressed himself on governance. As president of the SGA, he is entitled to sit in on Faculty meetings. No other students are allowed to attend these meetings and Butner hopes to change this. He would also like to see more students sitting on the Educational Policy Committee (EPC). “It’s going to take more than three students on these committees to adequately represent the student body. More student involvement in these committees will create a broader channel for student input. The more of us that sit on the committees, the more we can ensure that all possible student opinions will be expressed to the faculty in making decisions,” he concluded.

The Class of 1975 selected Senson Hardgrove, Bob Lautensack, and Rick Mullen to serve on its Hearing Committee, while John Walters and Mullen were elected to the Review Board. Due to rules prohibiting service in Review Board and Hearing Committee simultaneously, Shaul Sadelick will take Mullen’s place on the Review Board. The freshman class elected Deborah Davis, Sue Johnston, and Tony Snow to the Hearing Committee.

Many positions were filled before the election. Junior Mike Tanner became Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Sophomore Frazier Marsh President of the Union, junior Tom Tornee President of the Social Council, senior Rob Strand and junior Barry Blakely will Co-edit the 1974 Wildcat Handbook, and juniors Eric Walker and Steve Can will co-edit the 1974 ‘Miscellany’. These candidates were unopposed and no elections were held for the offices.

Many Davidson students awoke to a surprise Monday morning. Between 5 and 6 inches of snow had fallen in the early hours of the morning.

Five Trustees Selected

Five persons have been elected as at-large trustees of Davidson and several others have been elected as representatives of presbyteries of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., in North Carolina. New at-large trustees, elected by the board are: Graeme M. Keith, president of Georgia Railroad Bank and Trust Co., Augusta; Dr. James McFarland, director of internal medicine, Richland Memorial Hospital, Columbia, S.C.; Mrs. James H. Semans, civic leader in Durham, chairman of the Mary Biddle Duke Foundation, and a trustee of the Duke Endowment; Fred R. Stair Jr., president of Richmond, Va. The fifth at-large trustee, re-elected for a second term, is Dean Rusk, professor at the University of Georgia School of Law at Athens and former U.S. Secretary of State.

Elected to the board as representatives of the Concord Presbytery are S. Clay Williams, a Winston-Salem physician, and J. Harper Beall Jr., president of Fairfield Chair Co., Lenoir. Two men have been elected to complete unexpired terms of former trustees. They are David H. Burr, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem replacing Eugene Kirkman who died last February; and James K. Dorsett Jr., executive vice president and general counsel of The Wachovia Corporation, who resides in Raleigh. Dorsett will replace McFarland who has recently moved to Columbia. Dr. James Appleby, emeritus professor at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, was elected to the board from Fayetteville Presbytery.

In other action at their October 26 meeting, trustees re-elected officers for one-year terms. They are: Chairman Warner Hall, executive secretary of the Presbyterian Foundation, Charlotte; vice-chairman J. Dickson Philips, dean of the UNC-Chapel Hill Law School.