She Davidsonian December 7, 1973

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN

The Twin Terrors

It comes again with fearful regularity,
Like death and taxes will not be postponed,
Cannot be casually dismissed
As something we choose to do or not
Like Mother's Day or Senior Citizen's Week.
Either... or. No room for compromise here.
The twin terrors.
You must accept one or the other.
Sure, my friends, it’s nice...
Getting and giving.
Gifts from
Enticing shops, bedecked in red and green
And gold. Much hugging, back slapping,
Clinking of cocktail glasses,
And glacial masses of coolish cordiality.

But... What if... What if he didn't come?
Suppose Christmas is some gilded tale
Composed by mitred bishops to keep
Then the commercial crap is all there is
... and that is the most alarming thought of all.
No. I prefer the other terror,
The chance, after all, that He did come,
Does come, still comes every year.
Forcing his untimely birth, thrusting
Himself into our leaden lives, marking the marrow
Of the bones for his, blinding eyes
With his brightness, laying bare our
Tattered soul... frightening us into faith.
Shall we, like Herod, search out and silence
Him as an embarrassment to the business
Of good government, or, like the wise men,
Go home to our true country
By another way.

Anthony S. Abbott
Davidson College, December, 1973

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Nixon Placed In Wrong Sty

To the Editor:
I can't say that I greeted the smiling visage printed on the front of your November 30 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN with great joy.
Not that I was upset with your staff's practice of yin yang (loosely translated as “the science of beating a dead horse”); after all, I realize that you feel you have a divine commission to do so, and, taking your cue from the national media, that you feel the need to educate us poor dolts who are not clamoring for the impeachment of the President. I was not even upset by the resemblance of the whole front page presentation to my former high school's third-rate plastic-hippie underground newspaper (a quote from Jim Morrison? Come now). However, I am not at all sure that an article containing common crude political dogmatism belongs on the front page of a paper published by a group of (supposedly) sensitive, sophisticated, well-educated liberal arts students. Perhaps you should “render unto Caesar that which is Caesar’s” and leave the errant commentary to better-trained people who show an understanding of the issues. At any rate you should cast your pearls in a more appropriate pigsty.

Andrew Bailey '74
Davidson College

To the Editor:
For the past four years, during the end of each term, I have been asked to fill out a faculty evaluation form. I have done so gladly. However, in this same four-year period, I have never seen any efficacy from doing so. Therefore, I would like to propose to our lackadaisical student Senate that a committee be formed to publish the results of these surveys. In this way, true faculty evaluation will be realized.

Richard Hendrix '74
Davidson Collegeconcerning the results of these surveys. If the faculty is truly to be evaluated, it is my opinion that the results of these surveys should be made available to the students. Not only will this aid the student in the selection of courses, it will...

Is this just? Those faculty members who are confident that they do a good job should encourage disclosure as evaluation will support them and give to them the objective and effective evaluation upon their disclosure. But what are the chances for such disclosure? Unfortunately, Davidson is controlled by a political quo. But do we as students desire such conservatism? Do we desire traditional and antiquated pedagogy and its concomitant conservative politics, or do we desire change as being fundamental to...

refusal by the Nixon Administration to make available certain materials that might be incriminating to it. Thus, it would seem that the refusal to disclose these materials is tantamount to a confession that there is something to hide. Certainly, if there was nothing to hide, the tapes would long ago have been released. To follow up on this metaphor (which I am sure is considered by many to be an outrageous parallel): It is my opinion that it would be in the college's interest if the results of the evaluation surveys were released. If not, we will be left with no alternative but to assume that those who would benefit...

Stone, P.E. Program Blasted

To the Editor:

It is not my usual inclination to complain, but I feel that something must be said about the present situation with regards to both the gymnasium and the physical education department. To begin with, the present facilities at Johnston Gym are woefully inadequate for the...

that it accommodates. The present situation is an unfortunate one. In the meantime, however, something must be done about the inefficiency that rules the physical education department. It appears that the people involved here are completely unconcerned about the situation. This should not be tolerated. I see no reason why the locker room should be closed up at all. P.E. requirements need to be reconsidered. There should at least be some credit given for participation in intramurals. The possibilities for improvement are there. People just need to get off their ass and do something about them.

Bill McIlwain '74
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The availability of Johnston Gym - locker room, basketball courts, etc. - to the average Davidson student is beyond reproach. The locker room is never open on weekends, a condition of which very few students are aware; yet this condition of secrecy exists throughout the Johnston Gym hierarchy. (Who is Chip Stone, anyway? Does he exist?) What good is a locker room for equipment if it is not going to be open? The administration cries lack of personnel, yet I applied for financial aid in the form of work-study and was rejected. Surely our brilliant organization of "top-flite" administrators could solve such an insignificant problem. And finally, intramural games are being cancelled for girls' basketball practice (cries of male chauvinism!). Look at the situation in the...

If every Davidson student was treated as an individual, regardless of sex, the optimum use of Johnston Gym (our only resource) would occur when the greatest number of individuals benefited from the use of the court. (Indirect externalities must be omitted). My own analysis shows that during intramural games approximately 32 people per hour directly benefit from the use of the gym. (Calculations are: two games per hour each involving two teams, each averaging around eight persons.) Can any other organization presently using the gym claim such intensive use? In all seriousness, this is not a request for an elimination of any of our cooperation with various...

My own suggestion is a schedule posted well in advance giving times of practice...

Hopefully, something can be done, and though I may never again be able to have a date from this campus as a result of my alleged chauvinism, perhaps I may be able to play basketball once in a while.

P.S.: Nixon is a liar and a crook.

David Kittrell '74
Davidson College