The 1973 Student Government Presidential Election

This year’s SGA Presidential election offers students the choice between four candidates of differing experience and qualifications. While we feel
that each would offer well of his own unique talents, it is our belief that Blain Butner is the one
most qualified for the job. The other three candidates are John Scholer, Jim Goodloe, and Vince Rabil.

It is fair to say that Scholer is definitely the dark horse candidate, for up to this point he has
not participated in student government affairs, never having served in the Senate or on any of its committees. This is
not to say that this lack of past participation means that Scholer would not be capable of doing the job.
Quite possibly a totally fresh outlook is what is needed to invigorate a presently lackadaisical Senate. To become a viable
candidate, however, Scholer must, through his platform and campaigning, demonstrate a dynamic capacity to get the job done.

Jim Goodloe has given generously of his talents to student government over the past two years. He has been both
a dorm Senator and a class Senator (having been appointed to that position to fill a half-term vacancy). He was
instrumental, along with Vince Rabil, in reorganizing the Grievance Committee last year. He was also involved in setting up the
APO used Bookstore. Like all the other candidates, we feel that Goodloe possesses the capacity to serve as student body
president. However, having observed him in the Senate, we have not seen the leadership characteristics that the President needs to
be effective. And outside of the Book Store and Grievance Committee, he has done little to promote student concerns. To
become a convincing candidate, he must show what he has done in the past for students and how his abilities
qualify him for President.

One would have to go a long way to find a more diligent, conscientious Senator than Vince Rabil. His credentials
appear impressive. In addition to his years in the Senate, he has twice been President of his class, an organizer
of the Grievance Committee, and Chairman of the Senate Constitution and Bylaws Committee. His interests go beyond campus politics. He
has twice been a delegate to the National Student Association (NSA). In terms of credentials, Rabil appears on paper the
best qualified to succeed Bo Phillips. However, beyond the superficialities of the titles themselves, we can find little of substance
that Rabil himself has accomplished. We have serious questions about his past performance. While he has tried to recover lost
library books, his tactics at times have violated student rights. His letter to the editor on governance displayed a lack
of understanding about viable governing structures. Neither flowery phrases nor verbose verbiage alone will solve the problems we face here.
In a picture to the editor this year, Rabil showed a photo of Albert Einstein with the caption, “No tenure
at Davidson for the Likes of Him.” While we agree with his sentiment, we don't feel such emotional appeals will
achieve any success in changing the current policies on this issue. These are the concrete illustrations of what Rabil has
accomplished in student government. While we praise his zeal, we think more savvy and finesse is needed in the office
of the president of the student body.

We feel that Blaine Butner would do the best job in the office. Butner has been a good Senator, and
has served well as chairman of the Educational Affairs Committee, through which he had a significant part in drafting this
year’s calendar; and on the Governance Committee, where he has strongly supported increased student membership in the faculty meeting. He
was also primarily responsible for the longer hours the gym is now open, and was behind the recent unsuccessful push
for night exams. The real basis for our support comes from the fact that beyond his credentials, Butner seems to
have the right kind of personality for the job and a good grasp of Davidson politics. He speaks effectively, and
more importantly seems to have the knack for getting along with people, even when he may disagree with their opinions.
The office of President of the SGA...is the most powerful weapon that students now possess to protect and improve their
interests. Over the years, many of the advances and improvements in student life here have been a result of the
impelling force of the SGA President. For example, much of the progress in student participation in governance came at the
instigation of former President Danny Clodfelter. And if the proposed plans for a new governance system go through, then it
will be even more important to get the most qualified President, for he will be the only student allowed to
attend faculty meetings! With this increased power, it becomes critical that the student body pick the very best man for
the job. Therefore, we strongly urge students to become actively involved in the upcoming campaign: to read carefully all the
platforms, and to take the time to seek out and pin down the candidates on their positions on various issues.

The Davidsonian

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

DECEMBER 7, 1973

Alumni And The Magic Number

What's so magic about the number 1500? That is the projected size of our student body for the year 1981.
But why has the Board of Trustees chosen the number 1500? Does the number bring aesthetic pleasure to the Trustees?
One glance at the Cunningham Fine Arts building or the new library illustrates the Board's concern for aesthetics. If the
Trustees did not choose 1500 for its form, did they choose it for financial reasons?

Capital expenditures in order to provide new dorm accommodations for the additional students. Davidson officials knew at least two years
ago that the college was in need of money to provide the financing for new dormitories. The federal government, through
HUD, provided cheap money at 4 1/2 percent up until a year ago to colleges who applied for the funds.
A few of our college's chief decision makers sat on their hands then and did not make application for this
money. Today, we have a 9 1/2 percent interest rate, no government money, and no dormitories. So ends the story
of another Administration decision. When will they realize that in not deciding, they have decided?

Since no answer is in sight to that question, let us move once again to that magic 1500. Believe it
or not, 1500 was chosen because the alumni will not stand (or give) for anything less than 1000. As you
know, many of the alumni became quite upset when we enrolled women, changed the fraternity system, and restructured the football
program at their college. So now, they will not tolerate any attempts by the college to drop male enrollment below
1000. This group of alumni has two very "sound reasons" for its stand. First, Davidson has always had 1000 men.
Second, they want their sons and grandsons to be admitted to Davidson. If male enrollment is adjusted to provide for
the admission of additional women, it is possible that some of their less qualified male offspring may be denied admission.

We do not believe that any refutation of these two arguments is necessary; however, in regards to the second point,
one comment must be made. What a strange breed of creatures are our alumni. It seems that these alumni would
delight in seeing their daughters—not only their sons—attend Davidson. But who knows, maybe alumni do not allow daughters in their
families.

The most reasonable solution to our problem with 1000 now seems to be to reduce it to 800. With 800
men and 400 women, the 2 to 1 ratio and coeducation can be maintained. The college community can support 1200
students without having to construct new dormitories. Our dedicated alumni are just going to have to throw away their reason
and accept the solution which is best for the college. Progress does not mean 1500 students at Davidson. Progress does
not mean 1000 men at Davidson. To progress, we must be reasonable. If the college can only afford to house
1200 students, then let us only admit 1200 students. In other words, our goal—the goal of students, faculty, administration, Trustees,
and alumni—should be to improve the quality of education offered at Davidson. The quality, and not the quantity, of students
here at Davidson is the factor that counts.
