Page Eight January 12, 1973 The Davidsonian

Davidson Hit For Recruiting Violation

Following the tradition of fellow North Carolina Universities Duke and N.C. State, Davidson College has been put on probation by the NCAA Rules Committee for alleged recruiting violations. The announcement came after a three-week investigation which was done in complete secrecy. The probation period took effect on Jan. 1, 1973, and extends until Jan. 1, 1975. During this time no Davidson team will be eligible to compete in any post-season athletic activities.

Most noted of the effects which this ruling will have on the Wildcat athletic program is the end of this season's basketball hopes for national prominence and regional competition. The club will not be eligible for the NCAA Eastern Regionals nor the NIT.

The violation involved a new football recruit from Rose Bud High School in Pasadena, California, who had been entertained by Coach Dave Fagg on campus the first weekend in December. (Staff photo by M. Brady) Davidson will lose any chance for post-season play due to a recruiting violation.

White Named New Cat

In a surprise administration shuffle this week, Director of Admissions H. Edmund White has been appointed tennis and soccer coach for the Davidson Wildcats, and Sandy Carnegie, head of the Wildcat Fund, has been named White's successor. Both White and Carnegie will begin their new jobs immediately, although the new positions will not be final until they receive trustee approval in May.

The changes were announced this week by Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan who called the shuffle “the most exciting administrative decision made in my years at Davidson, short though they may be.” Bevan said White's appointment was made at the special request of College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Spencer said that he knew White could handle the coaching responsibilities because of the fine performances he put in during the IMAC tennis tournament last year. White and Spencer represented the faculty in that tournament.

“I've been trying to get Ed into the athletic department for years,” Spencer commented, “and this looked like the perfect job for him.” “He's a natural coach," Spencer added. “He’s a great tennis player, and does a great job of teaching the game. He did wonders for my playing last year.”

White said he plans to start putting the netters through their paces early next month in preparation for what he termed “a uniquely difficult season.” He said that although he knows few of the team members personally, he intends to meet them all shortly.

Carnegie was chosen to replace White, according to Bevan, because his job was terminated due to the administrative decision to cut off all athletic scholarships. “Since we will have no more football scholarships to worry about, we figured we'd just turn the fund's operation over to Zack Long,” Bevan explained. Bevan said that he felt Carnegie would be able to bring a new look to the admissions department. “He's been out looking for two types of people--big and rich--for so long that the change will do him good,” Bevan added.

Carnegie intimated, however, that he may join coaches Dave Fagg and Terry Holland in resigning to protest the cutting off of scholarships. Members of the soccer team were still too shocked by the decision to respond properly. “I really haven't the slightest idea what to say,” said Tom Tornee. “We weren't ready for that.” Tornee went on to express concern for White's ability to coach soccer and tennis.

Fagg had the 5-10, 195 lb. cornerback introduced, to the delight of Wildcat football rooters, at the Clemson game during halftime. Following the game, he was given a night-on-the-town with a few of the Davidson alumni and the cheerleader of his choice. Her name was not disclosed by the investigatory committee. The committee charged that the unnamed prospect was given a Davidson bumper sticker free of charge, which is in direct violation of NCAA regulations. Fagg attempted to pay for the sticker, but the committee would not allow this either.

While pleading innocent to the charges, Fagg burst into tears at the thought of not being able to play in any of the 1974 bowl games. Between sobs he commented, “I thought the boys would really be ready for it next year. Even though our schedule is one of the toughest in the country, I thought we could accept a bid to either the Gator or the Astro-Bluebonnet Bowl. But now the bubble has burst.” As another gusher of tears flowed from the weary and strained eyes of the usually calm coach, the reality of the situation set in.and solemn man, he stammered for a moment and then continued, saying, "It is not really me that I am so worried about. It is our team. They are a great bunch of guys and they try with all they have. They deserve a bow!" The sad man turned and started for the door, when Terry Holland's voice was heard. "Coach the game. I just don’t know how much he knows about soccer," Tornee stated. "In fact, I've never even seen the man. Come to think of it, I've never heard anyone else say they've seen him either." Netter Bill Allen had a different view, however. He applauded White's appointment as a far-sighted move on the part of the administration. "He should really help recruiting," Allen pointed out.

ROTC STAFFERS IRATE

Bevan Guns Down Marksmen; Safety, Expenditures Cited

Vice President of Academic Affairs John Bevan announced Monday that the Davidson rifle team will have to do without what he deemed, "the unnecessary rifles and ammunition." Bevan stated that the administration had based the decision on the lack of safety precautions and overall expenses of the team. "I am personally all for the rifle team. I think that they are doing a great job," Bevan said. "But," he continued, "the safety factor is one which I cannot bring myself to ignore. Why, just imagine if some clumsy dolt got in the way of one of those bullets." Bevan stressed that the safety issue was not the predominant factor in forcing the decision. Apparently, the administration felt that it could no longer support the rising costs of the team. "You cannot possibly have any idea what those damn trigger tuggers are costing us at the present," Bevan said. "Rifles, ammunition, and all that other stuff are just too expensive," Bevan emphatically stated.

The team will not be eliminated, however. The administration presented several alternatives to rifles and bullets and let the team choose the one they liked the best. The plan adopted by the target ticklers is "a compromise between disbanding the team and still having a team," according to a team member who did not wish to be identified. The plan calls for the team to use Daisy BB guns and painted styrofoam targets. Both targets and BBs will be reusable. In conjunction with the plan adopted by the team, the work-study department has announced a program in which students may help to pay their own way through school by picking BBs out of the targets. The college ROTC Department issued an irate statement which called the move "a humiliating comedown to the fine art of shooting." "After all," commented Colonel Virgil Foster, head of the ROTC program, "that would be one hell of a way to run a war, wouldn’t it?"

"I'll break his neck," cried the voice. Then the door swung open and Holland faced Fagg. "Why?" screamed Holland. "What the devil did you think you were doing?" Fagg stammered and the raging basketball mentor lunged at his throat. Luckily, Bo Brickles and Jerry Kroll were there to pull Holland away before any violence had occurred. They took Holland to the basketball office to cool down. Fagg quickly summoned his defensive line as permanent bodyguards. Later, Holland was available for comment in his office. His reaction to the incident was quite apparent. "I thought this was the most outrageous action ever conceived," explained the former Davidson great. "We have been robbed of a shot at UCLA for the next two years. It is ridiculous." Holland was in his typical fiery and nervous mood. Brickles was calming him down when a call came in from Furman University. Holland would not discuss the other half of the conversation, but from the tone of his voice, its volume, and its content (which was not printable under the code of the American Journalism Association), the logical deduction was that a Furman official had phoned to congratulate Holland on the recent recognition.

With the news of this unfortunate disaster, some of the freshmen and sophomore ball players are considering transferring to other institutions. Officials from other schools, including Duke, Wake Forest, Alabama, and South Carolina have been in contact with a few players who wish to remain unknown at this time. At the present time, there are no direct plans underway to replace Fagg at the head coaching position. Athletic director Tom Scott did say, however, that he had been in touch with a few prospects "just in case the situation arises." The player who was supposed to have caused the trouble still remains unknown.