Abbott Calls American Film Theater A ‘Pure Opportunity’ Ss $ Gift

Last Spring, the Class of 1973 announced the decision of its

By ALAN FORD
Asst. Features Editor

The American Film Theater is coming to the Southpark Cinema II in Charlotte this October. It will return to Charlotte every month thereafter until the last performance in May.

What is the American Film Theater? Professor of English Anthony Abbott calls it “a rare opportunity for students to combine education and entertainment." In actuality, the American Film Theater is a series of eight major plays in movie form with major stars making up the casts of the plays. These films are not filmed stage plays, but are movies made of the plays. The casts are impressive. This is the list of plays with some of the actors in each:

October 29, 30 - Edward Albee's A DELICATE BALANCE, with Katherine Hepburn, Joseph Cotten, Paul Scofield, Lee Remick.
Nov. 12, 13 - Eugene O'Neill's THE ICEMAN COMETH, with Lee Marvin, Robert Ryan, Bradford Dillman.
Dec. 10, 11 - Harold Pinter’s THE HOMECOMING, with Cyril Cusack, Terence Rigby, Ian Holm.
Jan. 21, - Anton Chekhov's THREE SISTERS, with Sir Laurence Olivier, Alan Bates, Joan Plowright.
Feb. 4, 5 - Simon Gray's BUTLEY, with Alan Bates.
March 11, - Maxwell Anderson's and Kurt Weill's LOST IN THE STARS, with Melba Moore, Raymond St. Jacques.
April 8, 9 - Eugene Ionesco’s RHINOCEROS, with Zero Mostel, Karen Black.
May 6, 7 - John Osborne's LUTHER, with Stacy Keach.

Tickets are being sold only by subscription and will be unavailable after Oct. 1. Tickets for the entire series of eight films is $16," he continued. They are available in the Extended Studies Office. Abbott said that there will also be a course offered around the films. Freshmen and sophomores wishing to take the course, designated as an Extended Studies Seminar, should sign up for the course in the Extended Studies Office. Juniors and seniors who wish to take the course should see Abbott. “The course will not count toward an English major,” Abbott said.

Class Gift

Last Spring, the Class of 1973 announced the decision of its class gift to the college. Class President Mike Creasman disclosed his class's plans to fund the equipping of Johnston Gymnasium, making it acoustically suitable for use as a multi-purpose entertainment facility. “The benefits of an acoustically treated gymnasium are numerous. It will enhance the appearance of the gym, improve conditions for athletic events and permit use for other large entertainment or cultural gatherings,” Creasman said. The Class of ‘72, which founded and funded the Student Loan Fund, the Class of '73 sought a project that would be relevant to the future needs of the college. “We view the gift as an expression of our appreciation to Davidson College for the educational and future occupational opportunities made available to us,” Creasman added. The Class of '73 has pledged $10,000 dollars for the project and fundraising is underway.

D.C. PIRG Seeks State Role

By MARK DEATON
Managing Editor

The Davidson chapter of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC PIRG) is presently involving itself in meetings with other North Carolina chapters as it attempts to make itself a viable unit of the state-wide organization. NC PIRG, which bills itself as the first lobby for the public interest in North Carolina, is presently operating on the campuses of Duke, Wake Forest, St. Andrews, and Davidson, with state offices in Durham. Modeled on suggestions by consumer advocate Ralph Nader, NC PIRG allows students to maintain a full-time voice on issues affecting the lives of North Carolina citizens, especially in areas of research, investigation, and action on problems of pollution, health care, consumer protection, and race discrimination. NC PIRG is funded through $3 contributions from each student on the participating campuses. Each student has the opportunity to withdraw his support from PIRG by requesting a refund of the

Barber Designates Cast For Shakespeare Play

By DAVID RICHARDSON
Staff Writer

The Drama Department recently completed auditions for “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” its first production of the 1973-74 season. Rupert T. Barber Jr., director of the play, expressed his satisfaction with the auditioners. “I was greatly pleased with the turnout,” he said, although he showed some disappointment over the small number of girls present. There were 10 coeds out of 50 students that appeared to audition. “I cast less than 50 percent of the students,” Barber stated. He explained this as the result of the lack of time and staff members. Work committees involving the cast have already been designated, according to Barber. Presently, there are 19 cast roles. A complete cast of 25 students is expected to be reached in the near future. Barber explained that out of the 19 cast roles, 11 were taken by students new to the Drama Department and five of these were coeds. There are no townspeople in the cast. The successfully cast students with previous experience in the Drama Department are

BARBER

The proposed set production for “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” is progressing under the direction of Mike Ramsey. Barber announced that a new stage would be built for the play. “The core of the lab work is to be done by Drama 21 class,” he said, although adding that “we are in the throes of production looking for people with special talents.”$3, a refund of the college comprehensive fee. Director of the Davidson Chapter of NC PIRG, Andy Lamas, indicated that the refund process at Davidson will be in effect during the fourth week. “The refunding will be properly advertised,” Lamas explained. “We hope the Davidson PIRG will be a loose organization where individual students will solicit funds from the state PIRG by filling out forms available in the Extended Studies office,” he said. “NC PIRG has a bad taste in everybody’s mouth because of the funding method,” said Lamas. “We’re seeking ways to change the method of funding next year. Funds are most available, and it is my hope that all the money put into PIRG by Davidson students will return through individual and group projects,” Lamas noted.

The Davidson chapter director expressed interest in seeing Davidson students make use of the Extended Studies program in order to carry out extensive projects they might have in mind. In a meeting here at Davidson Saturday, leaders from other PIRG chapters in the state hoped to make a broader base for PIRG by getting the state schools involved. “The Davidson Chapter of PIRG exists for persons having projects which will require a lot of interest. If a project arises, we'll supply the necessary manpower to see it through.”

PIRG will make their refund offer good this week. Those students who want to collect their $3 refund rather than support NC PIRG should see the Comptroller during the upcoming week. PIRG projects currently scheduled at Davidson for 1973-74 include taking part in a statewide prescription drug survey, doing a bank interest survey, investigating unfair advertising by automobile salesmen, studying conditions in the federally funded housing projects in Charlotte, and doing research for a coastal land use project. Lamas emphasized that the program was sufficiently flexible to give help to any student with an individual project.

---

Committee Reforms Governance
Continued From Page 1

shared roles of responsibility in many areas. To determine the extent of each group’s role, a committee was formed. The faculty had urged speedy consideration of the Faculty Constitution, deemed to be the fullest expression of faculty opinion on governance, while agreement was reached that the faculty does not expect the committee to make a final decision on approval of their Constitution. In discussion of the Faculty Constitution, general consensus determined that the President should remain the presiding officer and that it might be desirable for the faculty to elect a non-presiding faculty chairman to serve as a communications link between groups. The administration expressed concern over this office as having potential adverse effects on educational policy and an overall decisive impact.

The committee heard a revision of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) assuming primary faculty responsibility and agreed that student participation on the EPC is working well. Strong student interest in the operating budget was voiced, and the committee agreed to divide the present Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee into two: a Budget committee and Buildings and Grounds. The possibility of student participation (by seniors only) in Admissions and Financial Aid faculty evaluation was proposed, and consensus reached that evaluation is needed for an effective program of faculty development.

A proposed College Constitution, Model I, was drafted purely for discussion. The faculty representatives were asked to submit an alternative model, Model II, also for discussion. In the 14th meeting (April 1973), a tentative recommendation suggested that the governance structure should (except for possible executive session provisions) provide for attendance of a Faculty and a student representative at Trustee meetings, attendance of a student representative at Faculty meetings, and attendance of SGA Senate meetings by a Faculty representative.

The most recent Governance Committee meeting, last May, agreed upon a definition of “Educational Program and Policy.” In Model III, the faculty is to have responsibility for and legislate Educational Program and Policy while the EPC will remain as is and retain its two student members. An Advisory Council for Educational Program and Policy consisting of 15 faculty, 15 students, and 7 staff members will be structured with power to recommend to the faculty but without appeal to the Trustees.

---

Union Adds
Continued From Page 2

conservative columnist.” Part of the Union’s program is built around film symposia, such as this week’s comedy exposition. In line with this, contracts are being settled for a speaker to portray Lenny Bruce in the manner of the recent Mark Twain show. This will be a preview for a comedy symposium. Director of Union C. Shaw is making efforts to obtain a video tape monitor and use it to show film and T.V. shows in the bar or in assemblies. “We had planned to get a camera and make our own films but we can get a monitor and films for $1000 per year.” He went on to list several more things the Union is looking into. These included more durable pinball machines and bringing back free play on the jukebox in the lounge.

---

SCHOLARSHIP WINNER

Mitchell Purvis has been declared first runner-up for a national competitive scholarship award. President of the Davidson chapter of Phi Delta Theta, Purvis recently captured $700 and the Arthur R. Priest award. The scholarship is for service to chapter, service to college, and academic standing. Approximately 145 applicants were entered in the nationwide contest. Purvis, a political science major, resides in Jackson, Mississippi.