Page Twelve January 19, 1973 The Davidsonian

Up 'n Coming — Friday, January 19
- All week: Photography Exhibit: Stowe Galleries
- All week: Art Exhibit: Terry Hirst Student Art Gallery
- All day: Chubb & Son, Underwriters Martin Room
- 8 p.m.: Popular Film: “One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich” Morrison Room
- 10 p.m.: Repeat Popular Film Morrison Room

Saturday, January 20
- 8 a.m.-5 p.m.: Graduate Record Exams Chambers Dining Hall
- 8 a.m.-5 p.m.: Children’s Drama Workshop Hodson Hall
- 6 p.m.: Popular Film: “One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich” Morrison Room
- 10:15 p.m.: Repeat Popular Film Morrison Room

Sunday, January 21
- All day: Children's Drama Workshop Hodson Hall
- 8 p.m.: Jeanne Williams Conference

Sunday, January 28
- 7:30 p.m.: Special Film: Jeanne Williams
- 8 p.m.: Open End: SGA Presidential Candidates Morrison Room

Monday, January 22
- Beginning of Three Day Symposium on Penology
- 2:30 p.m.: Penology Film Love Auditorium
- 8 p.m.: Symposium on Penology: Reynolds Lecturer Ramsey Clark Love Auditorium
- 9:45 p.m.: Reception for Ramsey Clark Chambers Lobby
- 9:45 p.m.: Christian Fellowship Martin Room
- 10 p.m.: Mizpah SPE House

Tuesday, January 23
- 10 a.m.: Address: Ramsey Clark on “American Society and the Criminal” Love Auditorium
- 11 a.m.: News Conference for Ramsey Clark Morrison Room
- 3 p.m.: Panel Discussion: “What Should Happen in Corrections?” Hodson Hall
- 8 p.m.: Symposium on Penology: Frank Hall on “North Carolina Prison System - Today and Tomorrow” Hodson Hall
- 9:45 p.m.: Reception for Frank Hall Hodson Hall
- 10 p.m.: Penology Film Hodson Hall

Wednesday, January 24
- 10 a.m.: Address: John Cone on “Reform Within the Prison System” Hodson Hall
- 2 p.m.: Penology Workshops Martin & Morrison Rooms
- 3 p.m.: Reception Union Lobby
- 3:30 p.m.: Penology Workshops Martin & Morrison Rooms
- 6 p.m.: Fine Film: “The Sorrow and the Pity” Love Auditorium
- 10 p.m.: Community Folk Mass Martin Room

Thursday, January 25
- 9 a.m.-5 p.m.: University of Virginia School of Law Martin Room

Friday, January 26
- Rathskeller: Annual Fund Leadership Carolina Inn, Phi Halls, Chambers Dining Hall
- 8 p.m.: Transcendental Meditation Martin Room
- 8:15 p.m.: Repeat Special Film Morrison Room

Davidson Experiences Little Of National “Transfer Boom”
By LARRY MIMMS Staff Writer

Davidson College has not yet felt the impact of the nationwide “transfer boom” which has spread among universities and community
colleges, according to Registrar Richard C. Burts. According to national studies, an estimated 500,000 to 600,000 students will transfer from
one college to another this year, which represents a significant increase in numbers of students transferring. This mass migration, termed
by some authorities as a “transfer boom,” has been felt especially in many of the community colleges.

Contrary to national trends, the number of students from Davidson transferring to other colleges has not significantly increased. The number
of students transferring out has ranged from 10 to 20 during each of the past 6 years. Vice President for
Academic Affairs John M. Bevan suggested that one reason for the national increase in transfers has been the de-escalation of
the Vietnam War. He pointed out that many students were afraid that by transferring, they would call attention to themselves,
and he predicted that there would be an even larger increase in transfers when the war is ended.

One Davidson student stated the trend was perhaps due to a new student attitude in seeking a different academic and
social environment. Whatever the cause of the national transfer boom, the reasons for transfer from Davidson...

PCC Reorganizes Eating Club System
By BETSY ALEXANDER Staff Writer

The Patterson Court Council (PCC) reorganized freshman eating club orientation this year in an effort to better familiarize freshmen with
the system and to better equip them to make their decisions. After attending open house at each of the nine
houses on Patterson Court last week, the freshmen listed in order of preference their top four choices. Beginning this week
until the end of the term, each freshman will eat two meals a day for one week at his first
two preferences. The final decision by the students will be made on or about March 21. Freshmen also have the
option of not eating at any of the houses.

With last year's system, freshmen were randomly assigned a house and then could not eat in the cafeteria on those
assigned days. “The emphasis,” according to PCC President Jim Thompson, “is to allow freshmen sole responsibility for their decision with
minimum pressure from...

Smith Announces Union Proposal
(Continued From Page 1)
...that genuinely contribute to the development of human...beings.” At this point, he mentioned the desirability of an arts and crafts
area. “We need to take a hard-nosed look at these proposals, determine how much money Davidson is willing to spend
on a new union, and raise the money,” he said. Smith suggested that a union could be financed by gifts,
foundations, borrowed money from the government, and student fees. “Students will have to pay something,” he added. Pointing out that
the proposals for the new union were scheduled to have been completed by October 31, 1972, Student Body President Ralph
Peeples said he was “disappointed” to have waited that long for this (the new proposals). “There's been a lot of
foot-dragging and they're behind schedule,” Peeples said. Commenting on the feasibility of the plans, Peeples said that Smith might be
asking for the ideal union in hopes of getting just some of the proposals approved. “This is more ambitious than
the Davidson College Union has ever been and the proposals are a good basis for discussion,” he said. “But administrators
are going to have to limit discussion, make some hard decisions, and start moving,” he said.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7 — Wed. 9-12 — Sun. 9:30-10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N.C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics - Russell Stover Candies

the houses. During open house, each house on the court was to entertain, to sell themselves to the freshman by
convincing him that he would be welcome if he self-selected in." Dean of Students Will Terry believed this method is
better because “the system is more familiar now to the houses. The co-operation of all but one house has been
superior.” The PCC was budgeted $13,500 to use in improving boarding facilities and overall appearance of the houses on the
court. “From this money,” said Thompson, “the goal is to establish individuality on the court and a good atmosphere for
students to socialize and relax.” Several freshmen, however, expressed discontent about the system. “It didn't seem like the people in
the fraternities were very interested,” said one freshman. “Not very many of them were there.” Another commented that “It seems
a shame that you have to join a fraternity to have any social life. We were promised all this great
stuff, parties and fun all the time. We can’t understand why our friends at a big school with a big
student union are having fun, and we aren't.”

Davidson have been traditionally the same over the years. Dean of Students, Will Terry said, “90 per cent of transfers
leave because they cannot get the course of study they desire; they want to go to school nearer their home;
or they are simply dissatisfied. Most everyone thinks about transferring out at one time, because ‘the grass looks greener on
the other side’,” he said. In contrast, from 1966-71 the number of transfers into Davidson from other colleges has been
stable, varying between four and nine; however, with coeducation in 1972 figures changed. Thirty men applied, of which twelve enrolled,
and 37 women applied of which 28 enrolled. If the transfer boom hits Davidson it will be in the area
of transfer-in students. Director of Admissions, H. Edmunds White predicts that he will receive an increasing number of transfer-in applications
in response to Davidson's new coed policies, but very few men will be accepted for the upcoming year. The admissions
office is encouraging women transfers and expects to enroll more than 60 coed transfers. Burts stated that most students who
transfer-in do expect to lose some course credit, and that the few conflicts that do arise result from a student's
misunderstanding of course transfer rules. One potential problem comes in the transfer policy statement that the “registrar accepts courses consistent
with the academic objectives of Davidson College.” Burts explained that Davidson College would accept courses which were similar and consistent
to ones at Davidson, and would not accept some courses that were considered inconsistent with academic courses at Davidson. He
cited an example, the engineering course of “Strength of Materials” as an untransferable course. The major problems of transfer-in students
will go hand in hand with the problems of coeducation simply because most of the new transfer-ins will be coeds,
Burts said.

ERRORITE™
Sherrill’s AT YOUR BOOKSTORE
Jewelry - Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.
170 N. Main St.

Whatever you want, we’ve got
ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies - Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus - Camping Equipment - Bell Bottom
Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.

Deal's Restaurant and Grill
Dial 663-4141
Mooresville, N.C.
Open 6 Days: 6 A.M. till Midnight
Closed Mondays
Call and Take-Out Orders Will Be Ready
