Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Page Eight September 14, 1973 The Davidsonian

Cagers Gain Poise, Maturity Abroad

"Many times during the course of this expedition the Cat players experienced harsh conditions. Take for instance the time they
played in an unheated gymnasium. The traveling conditions were under extreme circumstances. With one goal in mind, to develop a
better mental attitude toward away basketball games, the Davidson players felt that the trip was a great success in meeting
the primary goal of 'growing up to a great extent,' said the former Wildcat standout. 'We learned to cope with
biased referees, rough play, and terrible playing conditions.' The Cats used primarily what Holland described as their 'passing game' on
offense. This allowed them to set the ball up against either a man-to-man or zone defense. Their opposition was usually
more experienced and older than the Wildcats. Thus Holland felt they learned to handle themselves better under different circumstances. 'I
thought that we were particularly good in learning to move without the ball on offense,' Holland commented. Defensively, the Cats
employed mainly a man-to-man full court press. It was very successful in helping to break open several of the ball
games and run the score up."

PAUSING TO REFLECT
Terry Holland gazes into the horizon from Australia.

Rugby Loses Pair To Clemson Team
By MARK CONNORS
Asst. Sports Editor

"After suffering an opening defeat, the Davidson Rugby team will attempt a comeback this Saturday against Hampden-Sydney. The team dropped
two games to a very strong Clemson team by the scores of 28-4 and 18-16. Injuries plagued the Cats as
David Kitrell strained ligaments in his knee, hip, and thigh; Sam Upchurch caught an elbow in the face that caused
a two-stitch cut. The most serious injury to a Davidson player was sustained by freshman John Rhyne who broke his
hand. A Clemson player broke his leg in the contest as well. In commenting about the game, Kitrell said that,
'The only reason that we lost was that we were out of shape. Clemson had been working out for a
while and with a little more conditioning we would have been able to beat them.' The Rugby team, although only
a club sport in its official status, has become an increasingly popular pastime on the campus in the past several
years. According to team leader Sam Upchurch, 'The team has never lost a keg party after the game.' The keg
party is a tradition in rugby with the losing team footing the bill. The team’s schedule this year has Davidson
facing several schools and clubs in the area."

By MARK CONNORS
Asst. Sports Editor

"The annual freshman Cake Race has returned to Davidson after a year lay-off and its reinstitution brought a refreshing light
on Davidson. The cake race, instituted by retired track coach Heath Whittle in an attempt to discover hidden cross-country talent,
was run on the afternoon of Sept. 3 as part of the 1973 orientation program. Although Whittle was present, present
head track coach Sterling Martin was the man in charge. After explaining the course itself, which spreads over a 1.6
mile area around Davidson, the coed part of the class of 1977 was allowed a head start. The girls’ lead
diminished quite rapidly and minutes and seconds later, Coty Pinckney, from Third Cannon, badly in need of a rest, crossed
the finish line first."

---scores up. The Davidson squad averaged 99.2 points per contest during the 20-game slate. Nine times they scored 100 or
more points in a game. Their high total came against Mars Hill when the final tally was 133-75. Greg Dunn
paced the Cats in scoring as he hit on 166 of 258 shots from the field for a 19.1 average
and a shooting percentage of 64.3. “Dunn was exceptional offensively for us,” praised Holland. “He went to the basket and
really put in the points.” Four other players finished the tour in double figures for Davidson. The second high scorer
was guard John Falconi who averaged 14.1 points per game. Forward T. Jay Pecorak, a senior, hit at a 12.6
clip, while Paul Wagner and Sheldon Parker averaged 10 points per game. Holland was especially pleased with the development of
Parker, which he called the “pleasant surprise of the tour.” “He really came a long way for us,” said Holland.
“We were looking for a big man and he really showed promise.” Parker also showed strength on the boards as
he hauled down 161 rebounds for an 8.1 average.

It should be noted that throughout the majority of the tour the Cats played a five-on, five-off style of substitution.
Holland explained that the five starters would play for the opening five minutes of a game and then the five
substitutes would play the next five minutes. This would continue throughout the game. Then the teams would be alternated and
shuffled for the next game. This was done so that the coaches could see everyone for an extensive amount of
time under actual game conditions. “We thought the trip was also successful in this respect,” commented the fifth-year mentor. “We
got to see all of our 10 boys more than we would have in other practices.” The Cats finished with
a 17-3 mark for the tour. Holland would no doubt be quite pleased if they come up with a similar
record for their away schedule during the coming season, with away games against Furman, N.C. State, Duke, Notre Dame, and
Virginia among others. (Staff Photo by Goodman)

OUR VERY OWN
The first cheerleading tryouts for Davidson co-eds were completed on Tuesday, September 11. Seventeen girls competed, both freshmen and upperclassmen,
of which seven were selected. The committee to select the cheerleaders consisted of Dean of Students Will Terry, Asst. Dean
of Students Diane Stone, P.E. and Intramurals Director Chip Stone, basketball coach Jim Larranaga, and head football coach Dave Fagg.
The girls selected were Norma Brewer, Martha Royster, Nancy Moncare, Carol Connor, Jeannie Hall, Marian Perkins, and Sue H. Johnston.

WELCOME BACK TO SCHOOL
Please feel free to come by and discuss your insurance questions and needs with us.
Piedmont Insurance
137 NORTH MAIN STREET
P.O. BOX 2348
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036
PHONE: 892-8054

DAVIDSON LIGHTWEIGHT CYCLES
Fine Bicycles And Accessories
117 Depot St.
892-0415

Southeastern Games. Fort Bragg, Roanoke, and Richmond have already been scheduled with several more teams to be added later in
the year. This weekend the team will face Hampden-Sydney.

First Union National.
