Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” —Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HORN, Editor-in-Chief
WHEE WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR FEBRUARY 9, 1973

Committee Pussyfooting The Future

The Campus Housing Committee has pussyfooted around in attempting to formulate plans for the construction of future dorms. The delay
has proven costly. If the plans had been approved a month ago, the college could have applied for a loan
from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) at a net interest rate of three percent. Unfortunately for Davidson,
President Nixon announced several days ago that he had terminated all such HUD funding. Now the college must go to
the open market to get a loan where the interest rate will be eight or nine percent. The difference between
the rates will probably cost Davidson several million dollars. This will inevitably put a heavy strain on the already overburdened
financial situation. It will make the job of the people in finance and development all the more difficult.

Rather than affixing the blame to any one group, we would maintain that all are at least partially responsible. The
administration is culpable because, with the sensitive feelers they have in Washington, they should have warned the committee long ago
of the possibility of such a HUD freeze. It seems that Mr. Cornell did deliver such a warning to President
Spencer last week, but not to the committee. By then it was too late anyway. The students and faculty are
also to blame because they should have pushed for more rapid action rather than allowing the decision-making process to drag
on and on. Both these groups realized the urgency of the situation, for with no new housing, coed expansion will
have to be drastically curtailed, but did little to speed up the recommendation process.

This committee is by no means alone in its tardiness. Last year’s committee on the finances of coeducation and this
year’s new Union committee are two other notable examples where delays in reporting out a decision occurred. We would urge
all committees to complete their reports within a reasonable amount of time so that more problems like the one caused
by the Housing Committee do not occur.

Faculty Evaluation Approved

Affirming that it is a rare and commendable organization which is willing honestly to devote time and effort evaluating itself,
we laud the Committee on Professional Affairs for its work in formulating a systematic, comprehensive method of faculty evaluation. The
committee is to be complimented both on its diligence (it has met 14 times since the academic year began) and
on its flexibility (it solicits discussion and suggestions leading to revision and improvement).

The history of faculty evaluation at Davidson is at best nebulous; it will be refreshing to see decisions on matters
so vitally important as appointments, reappointments, terminations, tenure, promotions, and salary increases being made on a more formalized basis than
those which seem to come mysteriously “from the top.” Along these lines, we would hesitate to support a plan which
does not include the proposed five-man evaluating committee (four faculty members and the vice president for academic affairs), but instead
places primary responsibility solely in the hands of the academic vice president and whatever department chairmen he chooses.

Most students would contend that their relations with the faculty play a major role in their lives at Davidson. If
the proposal eventually becomes part of the faculty constitution, students will have the opportunity for a considerable part in determining
the nature of that faculty, through both formal evaluation procedures and personal interviews with the evaluating body. We hope they
do so; we hope they contribute to shaping the plan now in its formative stages; we hope they show their
early interest by attending the upcoming open meeting on faculty evaluation.

MILES WARD

Carleton Recites Tale Of Rural Philosopher

Some people ask me now why I don't write something more about old Davidson. Well, I haven't seen too much
go on for a while. It’s hard to do battle with a building and besides I'd been feeling sick. Went
home for a while to recuperate. Last Saturday in Chatham I spent talking to one Carleton Mills. Carleton is kind
of a mentor spiritual-wise for me. Not that he ever thinks of spirits or that he ever talks about souls.
But I generally feel a little better after hearing what's on his mind.

Carleton runs a store in the center of Whitmill. Whitmill has only a school there, the Whitmill Farm and Normal
School. And it has Mills’ Store. Carleton sells most everything a country store usually sells. He has a big room
to the side full of dirty furniture, lamps, liquor bottles. Good rubbish which he sells as antiques. Fully half the
space in this room is taken up with books. He must have a thousand. Really good books.selling for a quarter
or 35 cents. Carleton listened to me talk for a while, heard what I was thinking about, and began to
talk about his half room of books back there. “You know, I remember the last fellow from around here who
went off to study all of that philosophy. He used most of those books back there. A lot of them
still have his stamp on the inside.” Carleton went over to the top shelf, pulled down a 25 cent textbook
on Anglo-Saxon grammar. Inside was printed the name "Arnold Morgan." Carleton rubbed a little chewing tobacco off the flyleaf, rubbed
a little juice off his chin and into his overalls. He spit a nice-sized wet glob over on the stove
and sat back down. “Now this here Morgan went off to the University around '39. There was a war on
though, so he moved over to Richmond. Seems he didn’t like Charlottesville anyway and wanted to be nearer some excitement.
Old Morgan found himself a girl over there and pretty soon there was more than just a couple of Morgans.”
Carleton got back to his subject, how Morgan did with his education in philosophy. “Now old Morgan wasn't one to
be weighted down by any such problems as wife and family. He kept on reading those books and studying that
stuff and before long was back in Charlottesville. “Fell in with a high-class crowd up there in his studies. Made
his wife go to work and he kept on writing things down on paper, then throwing them away.” I'm sure
Carleton Mills is one of Pittsylvania County's smartest men. He tells me he’s read all the books he sells and
he's probably telling the truth. He places a lot of importance on work though, and scholarship he thinks should produce
something a person can hold in his hands. “Old Morgan kept that stuff up for about six years. By then
there were three little Morgans and a pretty pissed-off little wife. She'd figured this fling with learning would wind down
after a while. It didn't and now she stepped in to cut his water off.” Carleton stopped for a second
to lean forward and get really earthy. “You know I never figured if he was mistreating her or just ignoring
her and them kids. But either way, she gave him the low down. Said get a job and give up
this stuff. Threatened to leave and it raised a big stink back here with his family. “Well, Morgan came back
here with a truckload of books and five people. He'd decided to be a farmer. Moved in with his mother
in a big house over near Ringgold. And was really a sight. Morgan's wife sold all his books to Carleton
for $100. He gave me one Saturday about the history of Vikings and said to watch out for all that
philosophy stuff. “I don't know how they teach it these days, but you see what it did for old Morgan.
You come on back now and bring some more of those college kids with you. They're pretty nice folks to
talk to.”

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Students Criticize Marathon Semester

To the Editor:

We were genuinely surprised upon reading Dr. Bevan's statements in the Jan. 26 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Although Dr. Bevan
has often been an elusive figure when it comes to personal meetings with students, we had assumed that this was
the result of his preoccupation with the interests of the student body. But his remarks concerning the FEC’s proposed calendar
show a clear disregard of these interests. The statement that the new calendar was devised to “answer educational needs, not...the
needs of summer jobs,” taken at face value, seems to be the statement of a born aristocrat. Unfortunately, not all
students at this school are heirs to E. H. Little. Students do have what might be called an “attention span.”
To expect any person to live in a 16 x 10 foot cubicle and read profusely in the middle of
nowhere from Jan. 2 to June 3 with only five days as a break borders on the absurd. The efficiency
of the students cannot help but be drastically affected by this marathon semester. Dr. Bevan should take into account not
only the continuity of classroom sessions, but the effects of lengthy terms on student performance. All in all, the proposed
calendar has completely failed to consider the situations of the students. It is time that a decision be made as
to whom Davidson College is dedicated: those who pay $3400 per year to come here, or those who are paid
$20,000 for devising ridiculous calendars like this one. We sincerely hope that the EPC and the FEC will make the
right choice.

Jack White '75
John Fowler '75
Davidson College
