The Davidsonian
May 11, 1973
Page Three

Christian Commitment Views Discussed
By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

Last week Davidson College held a joint faculty-trustee meeting in Hodson Hall to discuss the college's position in relation to its Christian Commitment. As reported by Religion Professor Robert D. Kaylor, “the purpose of the meeting was not to come out with any specific questions or recommendations, but just to air the matter out among faculty and administration and the trustees” and therefore supposedly to improve faculty-trustee relations on an overall basis.

The question of Davidson's commitment to the church has been debated many times in recent years, and according to President Samuel R. Spencer, there is a widespread feeling among all campus groups, as well as trustees, that a shared discussion of Davidson's religious commitment would be very valuable at this time.

To stimulate discussion of the subject, the college invited two professors who have considered the relationship of religion and education in their studies to speak at the meeting. Roland M. Frye, English professor of the University of Pennsylvania, spoke first, followed by Rene D. Williamson, chairman of the department of government at Louisiana State University and a professor at Davidson from 1937-44.

In his lecture-type talk, Frye took the historical perspective of the church and the educational institution as contributing substantially to the awareness of each other. Tracing the rise of the Reformation spirit in Europe from the increase in learning of the Renaissance, Frye cited the first instance of Protestant influence on education as Martin Luther's call for compulsory education in 1531. Frye continued his survey by keying on the Scottish role as leaders in religious education and culminating in the Puritan Dissenting schools which led in the revitalization of courses, notably the natural sciences.

In relating his view to Davidson's position, Frye urged the college to make a “continuing effort to produce communities of Christian scholars devoting themselves to the art of learning.” Adding that since “secular institutions don't establish the final pattern for higher education,” Frye charged Davidson to be “the custodian of this great Christian tradition of a community devoted to education.”

Williamson took more of a personal approach in his talk, recalling his teaching days at Davidson when “what counted was moral character.” “If Davidson is to survive, it cannot be just another small liberal arts college,” Williamson warned. “The one thing that can assure its survival and its distinction will be its religious conviction.” Williamson stated that the country today is involved in what he termed “vast permissiveness” and that a separation from church affinity “will not answer ‘who am I’ or ‘why am I here?’” “Students these days are church shy,” continued Williamson, “they're afraid of being roped in and losing their independence.”

Turning his attention to Davidson's policy of encouraging its students and faculty to contribute to the Christian community, Williamson said that “Davidson’s good record of turning out not only good moral people, but contributors to society as well, was made by Christians. What would a non-Christian know about churchmanship? — nothing,” Williamson stated. “Davidson cannot expect to carry on this tradition with non-Christian professors.” Williamson continued by saying that “if a college education is to be looked on as preparation for life,” Davidson should not yield to “misguided, libertarian pressures” and thus should continue its religious commitment to the church. Finally, Williamson urged all those in attendance to “emulate the Apostle Paul” in making their decisions.

In response to the talks, Kaylor indicated that he “reacted more positively to Frye than to Williamson. I was disappointed that Frye didn't touch more on the contemporary scene. He didn't bring the situation down to our (See CHRISTIAN, Page 12)

(Staff Photo by Anders)
THE CHURCH ON CAMPUS
Positions aired concerning Christian commitment.

Seniors Capture Fellowships Amidst Rigorous Competition
By MICHAEL TANNER
Managing Editor

This year, a number of Davidson seniors have won graduateFellowships and scholarships amid competition that has reached an all-time high. Richard C. Tay is the recipient of a Rockefeller Fellowship for a third year at Yale Divinity School. James Lehman and Alan Baragona received Thomas J. Watson Fellowships for independent study and travel abroad. Stephen Akers received an assistantship in history at the University of North Carolina. Desi Allender was awarded a research assistantship in physics at Cornell University. Barry Arnold received a scholarship to Rice Graduate School of Religion. Robert Banta won a James B. Duke Scholarship in French at Duke University. Cornelius Coghill won a Fellowship in English at Columbia University. Keith R. Dull received a Scholarship to Vanderbilt Graduate School of Religion. William Eskridge won a Fellowship in history at Harvard University. Peter Graham received a James B. Duke Fellowship in English at Duke University. Wan Greathouse received a scholarship at Wake Forest University School of Law. Henry Jenkins was awarded a Justin Potter Scholarship at Vanderbilt University School of Law. William Johnson received a Nighthead Scholarship at the University of North Carolina School of Business. Michael Kelly won a Patrick Wilson Scholarship at the Vanderbilt School of Law. Reginald Kennedy was awarded a Fellowship by the Council for Opportunity in Graduate Management Education at the Columbia University School of Business. David Mast won an Assistantship in physics at Wake Forest University. William Meier received a Teaching Assistantship in history at the University of North Carolina.

Leaving For New Job

Present position for two years, is accepting a job as director of the educational program at Colonial Williamsburg. The primary reason for leaving, he indicated, is the attractiveness of this opportunity. "It will allow me to work with both teachers and students," he said. "The job will be a combination of teaching and administration." Although emphasizing the magnetism of this new position, Sterling also expressed some concern for student activities at Davidson without an adequate Union. "There is an inability, on my part," Sterling said, "to see an active examination of how student needs are going to be met in the future."

Sterling made it clear that he was not going to carry out a "personal vendetta against Director of the Union Shaw Smith. "His conception of what a Union should be might be more Davidson's than mine are," Sterling said. "However, I think my apprehensions about student life are legitimate," he said. Reflecting on his two years at the Union, Sterling said, "There have been some moments of genuine excitement among students. To me, that’s the name of the game. But there have also been moments of real frustration because, in many ways, the Union is operating in a vacuum and not really serving the community the way a Union should," he said.

Praise for Sterling came from Smith who said, "He's done a wonderful job. He is, moreover, an expediter. Peter has the ability to move quickly and keep students on the ready. He will be missed because of that movement," Smith added. "This kind of administrative ability fills a real need here. However, the job he has is not generally thought of as a lifelong position at a school of this size. We knew when he came that he didn’t want to be in an assistant's position," Smith said. Smith mentioned a couple of prospects for the soon-to-be-vacant position but added, "We will not be lucky enough to find someone with Sterling’s background to fit that job." Union Staff Secretary Suzie Summers also spoke highly of Sterling. "I have every confidence in the world that he did a marvelous job," she said.

Graduate Fellowship Meeting

On Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Carolina Inn, the Faculty Committee on Graduate Fellowships will hold a meeting at which they will give a presentation of the graduate fellowships available for next year and the procedures for application. Present at the meeting will be a number of seniors who have won scholarships and fellowships this year. All students who are anticipating graduate work are urged to attend.