Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

FOUR
NOVEMBER 9, 1973

Signing Their Own Warrant

In one swift, unexpected move, the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity destroyed the conciliatory relationship that existed, however tenuously, between itself and the college administration by voting to conduct an early rush. The repercussions of this have been immediate and severe in the judgment of the Sig Eps; many people regard it as just another example of the Sig Ep mentality, which dictates fighting the college plan at every possible turn. This is unfortunate because it seemed to us that the college was finally willing to quit persecuting the Sig Eps, if they would only operate within certain guidelines, which previous to October 31 they agreed to in principle. However, by a vote of 28-14 they shredded any faith the college had in them by backing out of their agreement to conduct rush according to the college plan. They have decided to run their own rush. What the college will do in response to this is uncertain at this point. What can we say; only that the Sig Eps bring it all on themselves.

The New Dorm Recipe Needs Only One More Ingredient: More Money

We Have All Been Here Before

Despite the advance publicity and the importance of the issue itself, less than 25 students bothered to attend Monday night’s Open End on football. The Open End was designed as an opportunity for students.

Students Have The Right

We would like to see several students, more than the student body president only, be allowed to attend and participate in meetings of the Faculty, but not have voting rights. Such attendance would not extend to executive session, but we would hope this would not be abused and become a mechanism to exclude students. Student fear of the potential of executive session may at first appear unfounded, but in relation to the adamant faculty opposition to student attendance it becomes a measure of the distrust and lack of communication permeating the governance situation. Faculty opposition seems to be premised upon the belief that students lack the expertise to decide questions such as educational policy; yet students do not wish decision-making capacity in faculty meetings, but the right to speak only. Without direct student input into faculty discussions there is no assurance that student viewpoints will be considered. As to the importance of student input and student ability to provide it, both points are the foundation for student representatives to faculty committees. Realistically, it is within these committees that basic decisions are made, and students in these bodies are now able to vote. The Governance committee has agreed that student involvement in the Educational Policy Committee has been advantageous and ought to be continued. Still, students may not attend faculty meetings. Another faculty contention in opposition to student attendance is that the faculty is an integral body and should not include non-faculty in its deliberations. Yet the faculty makes decisions which affect the entire community, and there are allegations that these “deliberations” do injustice to the concept. We cannot see why a professor would be hesitant to voice his views before students. We believe that student presence would enhance the quality and responsibility of remarks and contribute to a morerational, efficient meeting. We also would like to see a decision reached in governance forthwith. Two years is long enough to master the intricacies of the problem, to reach a position, and to understand opposing positions. It is past time to settle our differences and leave them behind, to be less dependent upon structural mechanisms to resolve differences, to move to those problems affecting the entire community. It is simply a matter of going there.

We were ready to contribute significant input as to the direction in which the athletic program progresses. Not only were President Spencer and Vice-President Bevan present, but the new athletic director Thomas Cartmill flew down from New York to participate in the Open End as part of a three-day visit. Yet, few students bothered to attend. We were especially disappointed by the extremely poor representation from two specific groups: the Senate and the football team. Over the past several years, the Senate has been in the vanguard of the movement to change the emphasis in athletics (especially football). Yet once the basic decision has been made and presumably all the glory of fighting for the just cause is over, their interest disintegrates. This is a sad commentary in two respects: 1) that the Senators abandoned their role when many more decisions need to be made; and 2) that they made no effort to be present to hear the opinions of their constituency, the other students.

With regard to future decisions, Spencer, Bevan, and Cartmill were present as much to hear student opinion on several key unresolved points as to present and explain the revamped system. For example, no definite decisions have been made on all the schools to be scheduled over the next three years. College officials were interested in getting student opinion in order to schedule in line with the wishes of the whole community. Yet no Senate members (except Butner, Rabil, and Phillips) were even present to represent their constituencies and voice an opinion in such matters. As for even knowing student opinion, we doubt if that is the case, for here was a chance to hear what others were thinking in an open forum, and the Senators ignored the opportunity. Where exactly this leaves the Senate as a body we do not know. It is probably just another reminder of how inadequate it really is.

We were also disappointed in the lack of interest shown by the football team. As we indicated before, there are scheduling decisions yet to be made where the opinions of the players themselves are important. The administration was making a genuine effort to get a schedule suitable to the players, and they didn’t even show up to express their viewpoints. Here also was an excellent opportunity to have all their questions answered and the decisions explained, but they ignored it. It is unfortunate that more publicity could not have been given to the presence of Cartmill. (Incidentally, Cartmill appeared very impressive to us. He seems genuinely interested in building a first-rate athletic program on all levels.) But this does not excuse the poor attendance. If the attendance is a bellwether of student sentiment, then it looks like we are in for a return of more of that “I don't give a damn” feeling.