Page Two March 30, 1973

The Davidsonian

Stone Named Assistant To Dean Of Students

By MICHAEL TANNER

Capacities On Pert-le Deesis Managing Editor

Degin to work with the dean of students this spring in order to acquaint herself with the duties of the position. According to Dean of Students Will Terry, Stone's duties will primarily be in the area of student counseling. Terry explained that she will help the Dean's office in a counseling capacity, especially since the college is making efforts to integrate female students.

Terry noted that Stone will help the rest of the college community as they adapt to this change. "I believe that she will provide the necessary input for the needs of our new coeds," he continued. Stone's prior experience in counseling will be beneficial in her new role.

By HUGH MOORE
Contributing Editor

By PAUL WELCH
Staff Writer

WDAW Begins FM Broadcasts

After an extended waiting period, WDAW, Davidson's FM radio station, has received approval from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to begin operating on the FM broadcasting band. The Commission has granted the station a construction permit, which authorizes WDAW to install the special equipment necessary to run such a station.

Scott Reid, co-station manager, estimates that the testing period should begin near the end of the school year. The station's primary purpose has been to provide a music service to the students of Davidson College, but in the future, as a licensed, non-commercial FM station, WDAW will have increased responsibilities to the community.

Davidsonian Staff:

Managing Editors:
BOB HOWELL
TOM AINSWORTH

Contributing Editors:
BRUCE MALOY
BETSY ALEXANDER
MIKE TANNER
MARY HOBBIE

Sports Editors:
HUGH MOORE
JIM SITTERSON
JIM PAULSEN
GORDON WIDENHOUSE
RICHARD ROMEYN

Assistant Managing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER
STEVE BALKCOM
MARK DEATON
JOHN LEMMON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD
PAUL MITCHELL

Technical Assistant:
BILL ELLETT

Assistant Features Editor:
VAL VAN HORN

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Advertising Manager:
RICH SMITH

Associate Editors:
ALAN BARAGONA
CLIFF KIRK
TOM BRUCE
MIKE RAMSEY
JOE EARLE
PHIL STIKES
MILES WARD

Circulation:
GRAY WILSON
RICKY BELL

News Editor:
ROBERT GATES
HARRIETT HODGES

Photographers:
JIM JERNIGAN
MARK CONNORS
ROB PETERSON
BOB WETZEL
ROB STRAND

Contributors this week:
Ed Bowen, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Gary Garvin, John McElveen, Francis Townsend, and Paul Welch.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 248, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00

Increasing emphasis will be placed on educational programming and community news. Robert Poucher, manager for WDAW, described the impact the change will have, saying, "The change to FM will allow us to increase our service to the students because our signal will be stronger and more easily received."Received in the dorms: "It will give students more influence in the community by entertaining professors and other residents, and providing a service to the community. At the present time, North Mecklenburg County does not have any kind of a radio station. We would hope that we could fill some of this void and make a positive contribution to the North Mecklenburg community," he said.

Toughton also indicated that WDAYV will be making several programming changes while still operating as an AM station. Under the new AM format, the morning broadcasting hours will be divided into several one-hour shows featuring carefully selected top-forty type singles. During the late evening hours from eight until the station leaves the air at 1 a.m., a progressive rock show, "Radio Free Davidson," will be aired.

Staff Photo By Lawrimore

NEW DEAN
Mrs. Dianne Stone will assume her duties July 1.

Baragona, Lehman Capture Coveted Fellowships

Baragona will provide for summer and $8 larger because he is married. Bar Honors a Member of the College. He will study mythology and Druidic writing in Great Britain and Spain. Baragona's Celtic ritual in Ireland. Oxford will be his home base and he will spend most of his time in the British Isles. However, he will also travel to Spain to study the evidence of Celtic culture in some of the festivals.

"I decided on this program," Baragona said, "because there is so little literature on ancient Celtic culture. Mainly by studying the mythology, I hope to learn more about Druidic society. Most of what is known about the culture is found in the myths and Arthurian legend. I also hope to speak with a couple of the Druids who are still alive," Baragona said.

Baragona will be leaving for Europe in mid-June. "If not for the fellowship," he commented, "I could not have afforded the trip abroad."

Economics major Lehman will involve something quite different from Baragona's plans. Lehman will attempt to develop a vocational-technical education plan for Zaire, formerly the Congo. He will also travel to Belgium to study that country's vocational-technical institutes and to Kenya to see what it is doing in this area. Lehman will try to arrive at a plan for all of Zaire, but he may have to confine himself to one province.

"I will be working principally with the Church of Christ in the Congo and the Catholic Church because they will give me an apolitical 'missionary' status, and because the Church plays such a large role in the educational system," Lehman said. "We hope to move closer to the time when manual labor is no longer looked down upon as it is today in Zaire." Lehman has been to both Belgium and Zaire previously, operating a trade school in the latter for a couple of years.

Senate Hears EPC, Approves New Club
By HARRIET HODGES
News Editor

The Senate heard a report from Steve Dodd on the Educational Planning Committee in its meeting Tuesday night. Plans are being made to lessen requirements for the 3-2 Engineering program, according to Dodd. Dodd also said that it looks like Davidson will get a self-study program in foreign languages. This will mean that students can take courses in languages not offered here like Chinese, Hindi, and Turkish.

Also considered by the committee was the fate of the Honor’s College. Dodd said that the committee had not come to a decision yet concerning the Honor’s program's future fate.

Student Senator Bob Cunningham presented a report on the meeting of the Student Life Committee. "The committee is currently working on new contracts for groups occupying Patterson Court," Cunningham said.

In a unanimous vote, the Senate moved to charter the Philosophy Club. Another vote passed a motion to allow any member of the student body to serve as the president of the Elections Council. Also, the Senate nominated Frank Farmer to a seat on the Bookstore Committee. In other business, Vince Rabil announced that the Grievance Committee would begin meeting regularly on Monday nights.