October 19, 1973 The Davidsonian

Kilpatrick Expresses Views Of Conservative Columnist

By LILLIAN GASCOIGNE
Asst. Managing Editor

James J. Kilpatrick addressed an assorted assembly of students, faculty, and administration Tuesday night in a speech entitled "A Conservative Looks at the Washington Scene." He focused on the revision of election laws, restraint of power, and the biographies of the fallen powerful. On recent events, he noted that we should heed their example to make sure that "God reigns and government survives."

Examining Watergate, he believed that Nixon's personality contributed much to the actions of his aides. "By nature he is withdrawn, reserved, cautious, and highly disciplined, but he has done some things that should have been left undone and left undone things needing to be done." This manner pressured his aides into instigating the Watergate buggings. He cited Nixon's statement "A president just does not pick up the phone and call someone" as an example of channels being carried to the extreme, the main reason for Watergate.

Focusing attention on the vice-presidency, he said, "The biography of Agnew is what great novels are made of. His resignation has touched me deeply. I have defended him time after time because his criticisms of the press have made reporters more fair in their reporting. This is certainly a shattering blow." Kilpatrick feels that there are, however, lessons to be learned from the "Agnew tragedy." If not heeded, "we will be doomed to repeat this." Restraint of this power is a congenial topic for conservatives. "It is what binds the constitution together."

"Watergate lacked efficient restraint of power; power was abused in the White House and Dean seemed to adapt a 'screw our enemies' attitude demonstrative of this." Next, Kilpatrick feels that we must, in some fashion, find answers to the problem of political campaign contributions which tend to corrupt. He cited ITT and the milk price increase after the Dairymen contributed to Nixon's campaign as having "the appearance of impropriety, bribery, and pay-off. Money does talk and people do listen. We must curb this buying off of public officials to restore the faith and confidence of the people."

He gave his tentative support to the new bill passed for public tax funds for elections. He is, however, far from certain that this is right because it gives an advantage to the incumbents. "I question that we can constitutionally put limits on this aspect of free speech. The problem of contributions should be resolved on a voluntary basis by the two major parties. It should be a matter of honor between the two parties to restrain this abuse."

"Finally, we must seek genuinely out of our hearts for philosophic and patriotic rededication. We have the great strength of millions of law-abiding, decent Americans plus our material wealth. Our strong reserves of vitality must now be remobilized, recaptured, and rechanneled."

In the question-answer period that followed, he stated that he did not believe we would repeat the Vietnam mistakes in the Mid-east although we have passed familiar landmarks from the bloody road to Vietnam. "It would be a disastrous catastrophe which would rip us apart, outdoing anything we have ever seen. The public would not support sending troops, and..."

Executive Editor: MIKE TANNER
Managing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, MARK DEATON, CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Sports Editors: JIM SITTERSON, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Associate Editors: ALAN BLAKLEY, DOUG BROWN, TOM BRUCE, STEVE CANTERBURY, TODD EADES, JOE EARLE, MARY HOBBIE, RICHARD ROMEYN, MILES WARD
Contributing Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, PHILIP BISHOP, DAVID HANIG, ANDY LAMAS, HUGH MOORE, JIM PAULSEN
Technical Assistant: BILL ELLETT
Contributors this week: Ann Bode, Peter Celantano, Tracy Charles, Jordan Clark, Herb Dimmock, John Douglas, Greg Dunn, Bob Howell, Jim Jernigan, Jeff Johnston, Lynne Keener, Will Robertson, and John Tatum.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.Israel has not requested them.” In the 1976 election he projects Ford, Rockefeller, Reagan, Connally, and Percy as possible candidates with Baker as a probable vice-president. He sees Kennedy as a shoe-in Democratic nominee. “Unless the spasm of morality will have run its course, we will have a Mr. Clean vs. Mr. Clean election with a reform candidate coming in like Sir Lancelot.” He commented that Nixon was either a crook or incompetent regarding Watergate. But he doubts that he will be impeached unless he is actively defiant of the Supreme Court tape ruling. He feels that the Supreme Court will find some way of getting around the tapes. “The deviousness of the Supreme Court will find some device of one-upmanship through which both sides shall win.” (Staff photo by Goodman)

JAMES KILPATRICK, SYNDICATED COLUMNIST

In a speaking engagement here on Tuesday night, conservative James Kilpatrick addressed himself to various topics relating to the Washington scene. He labeled Agnew's resignation as a “shattering blow.”

Pre-managerial Program Exists Only In Organizational Stages

By PHILLIP BISHOP
Associate Editor

“What is management?” Economics Professor Charles E. Ratliff whipped out a management journal and flipped through it, showing a maze of mathematical formulas. “It’s more than just these numbers, or what we call Management science,” explained Ratliff. A pre-managerial student, said Ratliff, can be a candidate for anything from the treasurer of a church missions board to an executive at General Motors. Management is obviously a widely diverse field. Many pre-managerial undergraduates prepare for it in graduate study, either in a Master of Business Administration (MBA) program or in a specific field like economics, said Ratliff.

A pre-managerial program at Davidson is more an idea than a program. No committee has been named, said Ratliff, and the first sign of organization was the program of speakers for the College Conference Schedule. “Of course, pre-managerial students have been at Davidson all along. The advising had just been done by individual professors sitting in their offices,” said Ratliff, “and we'll continue to do that.” A pre-managerial program would correlate to already existing pre-professional plans, explained Ratliff. “It would keep a student interested in a managerial career from barking up the wrong tree,” he added. Whether a pre-managerial program will be developed still seems to be in question. Both Ratliff and Vice President for Academic Affairs (See MANAGEMENT, page 12)

SGA Rejects Football Subsidy

By HARRIETT HODGES
News Editor

The student Senate again voted down subsidized football in its meeting this week. “This would mean that football players couldn't receive scholarships for more money than their financial need is,” Steve Bell, who introduced the resolution, said. “This would only apply to students coming in as freshmen, however. People who have scholarships now would keep them,” Bell added. Bell's resolution was also passed by last year’s Senate. Action by the Board of Trustees is required, however, before any change actually takes place.

DAVIDSONIAN editor Alec Hoon suggested a resolution to the Senate that THE DAVIDSONIAN editor be paid. Hoon said he had taken the idea to the administration and would like to have the Senate support it. This resolution will be debated at next week's Senate meeting. Also in this week's meeting, the Senate voted to set up a publications review committee and a yearbook finance committee. Senate Parliamentarian Todd Eades, who suggested formation of the committees, said, “The purpose of the yearbook finance committee will be to deal with the specific financial problems involved in the yearbook.” The work of the other committee will be to review the yearbook, according to Eades.

Blain Butner introduced a resolution that policemen patrol the campus on foot. Butner said that policemen are already doing this but that he wanted to express the Senate's approval of this action. The Senate accepted a resolution by Todd Eades that they endorse Professor Randall R. Kincaid’s counseling program and encourage the college to implement it. Also, the resolution includes the suggestion that the college continue to provide graduate and professional school advisement programs and psychological counseling services.

Rape Incident Prompts Security Improvements

On Friday, Oct. 12, a Davidson coed was attacked and raped by an unknown assailant on Patterson Court shortly after midnight. While the man carried a gun, the girl was not physically beaten. An intense search for the assailant was begun immediately, but no suspect has been arrested. The response among college officials to beef up the security system has been immediate and rigorous. To supplement the regular cruising patrol, a security man will begin patrolling the campus on foot after midnight. In addition, a second phase of the lighting program to provide for a safer campus has already been initiated. All students have been urged to become more security conscious, and when they are away overnight to leave word of that fact. It is hoped that these actions will satisfactorily deal with the security problem. As Dean of Students Will Terry said, “We all need to take reasonable precautions to ensure our own and others’ safety.”