Nixon Compared To

If Richard Nixon had not been born before 1924, I would swear that he was Franz Kafka’s alter ego in
a previous life. Kafka's story "The Metamorphosis" could very well begin: "Richard Nixon awoke one morning from uneasy dreams and
found himself transformed into a gigantic insect." Kafka’s character never regains powers of communication, much less control of his destiny.
In the end, he dies alone in his room.

When James J. Kilpatrick spoke at Davidson last week, he commented that the United States would never see the day
when the common man would be allowed the same “equality of law” as the man of riches and power. He
was speaking with respect to Spiro Agnew’s suspended sentence in the kickback case. Little did Kilpatrick (or anyone else) know
then that Washington was to experience a bureaucratic earthquake even greater than that caused by the Agnew affair.

And now it has happened. Richard Nixon has enjoyed for five years now all the superlatives of life which are
concomitant with the high office of the Presidency. And Richard Nixon has moved a lot: from Washington to Camp David,
to California, to Moscow, Peking; from popular to unpopular; from honor to dishonor. Has Nixon, in fact, become a dictator?
I think not. I prefer to view Nixon as a bad boss.

Kilpatrick pointed out that Nixon’s sovereign self-discipline prevented his knowledge of the Watergate incident and the resultant coverup. Why then
does he not let this issue be pursued? Nixon promised to let the prosecution of Watergate continue until the truth
was uncovered. Why then does he not keep this promise? Nixon throughout has defined the United States in terms of
honor. Why then does he retreat from the democratic process with so dishonorable an image?

Perhaps a better question is why does anyone care any longer what Nixon says, does, or appears to be? Or
does anyone? Obviously, it is necessary that someone continue to care. According to nearly 200 years of carefully wrought and
revised “rules,” Nixon has all the power in the world to do what he has been doing. (Nowhere is it
written that the President shall keep all his promises.) If the President says you're out of a job, there's no
appeal, is there Mr. Cox? At least not in the executive branch.

We, the American people, though many of us are not willing to admit it, have been the scapegoats all along.
When all was well in Washington and around the world, Mr. Middle Class America was proud to point to Richard
Nixon's television and newspaper face and say: “That's my voice talking there. The voice of the people.”

ALAN BLAKLEY
The Davidsonian
October 26, 1973

But recently how many Americans are doing so, identifying with the President? Very few indeed. More and more they are
not only beginning to recognize Congress and the Supreme Court, but they are calling on these two bodies: “Bring this
man to justice! Crucify him!” Now the reluctant legislative branch has been forced to action. Meantime, an invisible monarch in
the judicial branch seems to be waiting its turn (not realizing that its turn may already have been missed). And
we, “the fellow Americans,” have begun to dig out all the old government textbooks. After all, there’s no Vice-president. “Let’s
see, Speaker of the... Carl who?”

Yes, at the moment the White House seems to be on sandy soil. No need for despair, however, for as
he bowed out (with so much honor it stunk) Agnew assured us that “God reigns...” At this point, don’t we
hope so!

Alternatives Counterbalance Benefits Of JYA Adventure

Last week a column appeared in this newspaper under my name. The following was supposed to have been appended to
that column: “This is the first of a two-part column. This column will deal with the advantages of the Junior
Year Abroad program while next week I will deal with the disadvantages.” This week’s column, then, is a continuation of
last week’s, not a retraction.

Let us examine the disadvantages of the Junior Year Abroad program. The question which needs to be answered is this
one: “What more can the student gain from Davidson's Junior Year Abroad program than he could gain from: a) traveling
on his own in Europe; b) going to a university in the United States for a year; or c) dropping
out of...

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN

Remuneration Request Poses Problems Of Taking Money For Commitments

By THOMAS A. ROGERSON
Professor of Spanish

We have noticed recently that the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN has requested financial reimbursement from Davidson College for services performed
for the College in his role as editor. Now this may or may not be a just request. Obviously, in
the editor’s eyes it is just or he would not have made it—he being an eminently just person. Likewise, justice
being one of the four cardinal virtues, we may assume his request places him, in his eyes at least, well
on the road to virtuousness, if not all-out holiness, this being the way of post-pubescent exuberance.

Assuming there is a commitment on the part of THE DAVIDSONIAN editor to his role and, indirectly, to the College,
and leaving the justice of his request aside, the request itself does raise, and raise forcefully, the whole question of
the nature of commitment. What is commitment—commitment to an idea, an ideal, an institution or a discipline—and, more importantly, how
are we committed?

Let us assume that we understand the typical dictionary meaning of commitment to be “an obligation, a binding, a pledge
to some cause or course of action.” Setting aside for the time being the problem of the editor, can we
say that we are truly committed to many of the things to which we say we are committed? Or are
we just putting on an act for psychologically or sociologically sound (or not so sound) reasons, or is our commitment
simply to be in style? This all boils down to what, for want of a better definition, we shall call
the problem of “being” committed as opposed to being “committed.” In the first, it is the outward manifestation of the
adherence to the ideal or course of action that is important; in the second, it is the ideal or course
itself that...is important. In our simplistic callowness we may shout, as, indeed, we have shouted in the recent past, “Down
with sham! Down with the outward manifestations! We want only the real thing, the bottle of Coke, the essence, the
cause itself!” We are then prone to reject, precipitously, the act of ‘being’ committed in our haste to espouse the
commitment. We should be wont, then, to do away with all of the psychological and sociological “games that people play”
without realizing that the act of commitment itself, the show, the play, the ‘good feeling,’ if you will, has importance
in, and by, itself for very many individuals; other times it has not. Sometimes it has hurt society, sometimes not.
In defense of ‘being’ committed we must say that all those who go along with a cause for the show,
for the sake of belonging, do not necessarily have to reject the cause itself. Some do, some do not, some
do not even understand the cause—think of the “little old ladies in tennis shoes” that backed Senator Goldwater in his
bid for the Presidency several years ago, or think of the sweet things (bless them) that back bussing today because
they “just love little children—white or black.” Sham can soar to great heights, it can be sublime. The Spanish philosopher,
Miguel de Unamuno, in his treatise “The Tragic Sense of Life,” magnificently summarized in his short novel “San Manuel Bueno,
mártir,” looks upon the role of Christians in this world as an example of this ‘being’ committed, sham, if you
will. According to Unamuno, man cannot logically believe in life after death; but he must live as though he did
so believe. Man must ‘be’ committed to Christianity since a lack of faith in its whole ‘afterlife’ setup would be
too awful for him to contemplate or to live with continuously. The one who does not believe must feign belief
and work, work ceaselessly, within the framework of faith, so he does not have time to contemplate the awful, the
unthinkable, nada. A great function of Christianity for Unamuno is to encourage men to live in such a way that,
if there would be no afterlife, it would seem a great pity, a great injustice. Putting aside theology, we can
see here that ‘being’ committed is not necessarily evil or destructive at all. At least, for Unamuno, it was one
force for the very creation and spread of Christianity. Society has been able to utilize those who desire solace from
‘being’ committed to achieve many worthy goals by means of a steamroller effect. How many professional Southerners now embrace racial
integration (at least superficially) because it is ‘the thing’ to do? How many Southern ladies now spend their prodigious spare
hours in activities caring for the welfare of the community’s blacks rather than in sitting on their verandas sipping bourbon?
They may or may not be particularly committed to the ideal of black advancement at all; but the flurry of
activity, the sense of belonging to the cause, in short, having something to do, is attractive to them. This is
particularly true if the activities are church-sponsored. Then the participants can feel accepted in the community as persons with both
social and Christian commitments. Great social good can, and does, emanate from this. Despite this generation’s propensity to damn all
that is not ‘the real thing,’ we see that sham can be beneficially productive. But, in truth, a large portion
of the adherents of the philosophy of ‘being’ committed are not benevolent at all. These are the reprobates that do
not need the psychological or intellectual crutches that they lean on, but use them as weapons against others—to degrade others,
to achieve questionable or improper aims. It seems that the others, more numerous, who are benevolently either ‘being’ committed or
truly ‘committed’ to the particular cause. Angela Davis, one of the cheapest and most ordinary of communists, bent solely on
the destruction of American society, as a leader in the movement for black advancement and is docilely, if not supinely,
accepted by those committed, either truly or in sham, to this cause. She has even been acquitted from the charge
of accessory to the murder by a jury that admittedly freed her solely because they, the jury, also wanted to
be identified as ‘committed’ to the aims of black advancement. (See COMMITMENT, page 8)

school for a year? The answer is: academic credit for any amount of work. It is a well-known fact among
students returning from JYA that some departments give credit for virtually no work. It is possible to spend the junior
year having a fun time in Europe and return with a year’s worth of credit. The student who cannot do
independent work at Davidson will be so overwhelmed by the change of environment that he will, most likely, waste the
year, academically. The prerequisites for many courses in Germany and France preclude students from America taking them. Professors in Europe
do not want to work with undergraduates. They will lecture to them, but they will not spend time discussing problems
or reading papers or exams. The cultural advantages of going to Europe can be gained in a much less expensive
way. The student could travel to Europe on his own in the summer and spend considerably less money than in
an entire year. Most of the students at Davidson being from the South could achieve the same amount of “culture
shock” by spending a term or two at a university such as The University of California at Berkeley or Columbia
University. Another comment that many JYA returnees make is that they grew and matured over the year. No matter how
trite that phrase is, let me suggest another method of growing and maturing. Leave school for a year and get
out in the world. Join the Navy. Work in a coal mine in West Virginia. Work on a barge on
the Ohio River. All of the proposals in this column would cost the student and the college community much less
than JYA. The individual JYA student might grow and earn at the same time, instead of growing and paying. Some
people on the campus believe that the benefits gained by JYA could be gained by the methods detailed above. They
also believe that the money used to subsidize the JYA program could be put to better uses here on the
Davidson Campus. I am one of the people who believe this.
