PECORAK’S AGGRESSIVE STYLE

T. Jay looks for a bucket under the boards.

The Davidsonian - February 9, 1973 Page Nine

Cats Lose In Overtime By 3, Take Revenge On Keydets

By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

Davidson's Cagers split their two games last week, losing to West Virginia 88-85 in double overtime and defeating VMI 105-88.
The West Virginia game displayed two prominent traits of the ‘72-73 Wildcats. These two traits are the team's inability to
pull away from a team and their scrappy never-give-up attitude.

The first half was played evenly with Davidson having the slight advantage as they built up a lead as big
as eight points. The half ended with the Cats holding a 38-34 advantage. Starting off quickly in the second half,
the Cats built their lead to as much as 11 points. It looked at this point as if the game
would be a runaway. However, the lead remained about the same until West Virginia ran off eight straight.

Pecorak’s Reputation ‘An Emotional Thing’

By BOB WETZEL
Staff Writer

T. Jay Pecorak has a reputation. When one thinks of the junior from Fairfax, Virginia, words such as enforcer, bad-boy,
and muscleman often jump into one’s mind. Almost every Davidson basketball fan can think of a few incidents during the
past two years in which the younger Pecorak has lived up to this image. Even “Sports Illustrated,” probably the nation’s
most prestigious sports periodical, made reference to his physical playing style in one of its basketball reviews earlier this season.

He may play rough but it’s not the sort of thing that’s totally unnecessary. Pecorak is just 6'5" and only
210, but he usually ends up drawing the defensive assignment on the opponent's best forward. “I have to be aggressive
in that situation,” he commented. “It might also be that aggressive play runs in the Pecorak family,” he said. Older
brother John, this year’s team captain, has never been known to give the game the “kid glove” treatment.

However, for T. Jay it is primarily an emotional thing. “I used to get so psyched before a game that
every player on the opposing team was a mortal enemy. I got so worked up that I actually hated the
other team.” But the style has been more restrained recently. “I don’t get as excited before the game anymore,” he
added. “Possibly it’s the realization that the officials know my reputation and are aware of what I'm doing. I can't
get away with as much.”

But in a rough contest, he is never at a loss. The recent double-overtime loss to West Virginia was one
of those physical games where the officials “let them play.” T. Jay was up to the occasion, contributing 18 points
and collecting 10 rebounds in one of his best performances of late. But overall, the year has been somewhat disappointing
for the junior forward. He is a winner and the Cats have been losing. The 60 percent shooting that placed
him among the nation’s leaders in that statistic early in the season has now ebbed below 30 percent. However, the
rebound average has risen. He is also averaging in double figures in spite of the shooting slump.

Commenting on team performance, T. Jay said, “We've got to loosen up to win. I think everyone, both players and
coaches, have reacted to losing in the face of pre-season optimism. We know that we're a better team than our
record shows.” He added that many of the players have restricted their individual styles because of the tension and the
regimentation of the Davidson offense. “If we loosen up, as we did against Wake Forest and VMI, we'll win,” the
junior forward said. “But if we stay tight, we'll continue to blow leads as we've done all season,” he said.

Runners ‘Find Weak Spots’ In Two Recent VMI Meets

Returning from two meets at VMI, Davidson's winter track team ‘discovered what needs to be done and found out areas
of weakness,’ according to Head Coach Sterling Martin. The Davidson thinclads were one of 52 colleges that participated in this
past weekend's annual VMI Relays. One of the most popular meets of the winter season, the Relays attracted such name
track powers as Duke, East Tennessee, Maryland, North Carolina Central, and the remaining majority of most southeastern colleges.

Entered in the 440, 880, sprint medley, distance medley, and four-mile relays, Davidson's thinclads failed to place. However, according to
Martin, “We used the Relays as just a training meet. It's very hard to compete on an even level with
the big track powers this early in the season.” After resting one day, the Wildcat track team met VMI and
Furman in atri-meet in the VMI fieldhouse. Sore from Saturday's meet, Davidson managed to score only 10 points in the
triple encounter, with VMI taking second and Furman a dominant first. Although the team was somewhat frustrated and disappointed, Martin
was reasonably satisfied. “We have a lot of work to do before spring season, but considering the time of the
season, we did fairly well. I was pleased with Mark Connor's performances in the broad jump and 60 yd. dash,
along with Woody Van Meter in the pole vault and Allan Duncan in the high jump,” he said. Duncan, a
freshman from Shrewsbury, Mass., took time off from J.V. basketball to compete this weekend and placed third in the high
jump in last Monday's meet. Woody Van Meter, current Davidson record holder in the pole vault, took third in the
tri-meet with a jump of 12 ft. 6 in. The winning jump was a near stadium record at 15 ft.
Top scorer for the team was sophomore Mark Connors. Scoring five out of the team’s 10 points, Connors took second
in the broad jump and third in the 60 yd. dash. “Mark did a real fine job. He normally is
a middle distance runner but he decided he wanted to broad jump and run the 60,” commented Martin. The only
remaining point scorer for the team was shot-putter Steve Shankweiler, with a fourth in the weight event.

Points to cut the lead to three at 61-58. The game was played even until West Virginia took their first
lead since 2-0 with 3:50 remaining to be played in regulation. The lead changed back and forth in the last
minutes with no one leading by more than one point. With two seconds remaining, T. J. Pecorak was fouled and
had a one-and-one free throw chance with West Virginia leading 69-68. He made the first but missed the second so
the game was forced into overtime at 69 all. In the first overtime period, Davidson demonstrated its ability to come
back from a deficit and get back into a game. West Virginia, now looking like a new team, quickly built
up an 80-72 lead with less than a minute and a half remaining. Davidson put on all-court pressure and miraculously
tied the game at 80 all to end the first overtime. The two teams split the first four baskets of
the second overtime. Then West Virginia got two more. This time all the Cats could manage was one more point
and the game ended 88-85. Leading the Cats in scoring was T.J. Pecorak with 18 points. Also in double figures
were Greg Dunn, John Falconi, and John Pecorak who scored 16, 15, and 11 points respectively. Larry Horowitz pulled down
a game-high 13 rebounds while T. J. Pecorak hauled in 10. When asked about his team’s inability to pull away
from an opponent, Coach Terry Holland commented that because of the team’s size, they are “not a consistent rebounding team.”
This fact was very evident against West Virginia because during the Mountaineers' comeback in the second half, many missed foul
shots were turned into West Virginia baskets. Another reason for this inability to pull away, according to Holland, is that
the team plays too cautiously when they get a lead. Holland said that to run a team out, “we would
need to play flawless basketball for 40 minutes.”

Flawless basketball would almost be the word to describe Davidson's first-half performance against the VMI Keydets. The Cats built up
a 21-point lead in the first half and went into the locker room with the score 59-42. Davidson had shot
a phenomenal 69.9 percent from the floor. Also, for the first time, Davidson had used all 11 players in the
first half. Two of Davidson's 59 first-half points were a result of Greg Gerdy's first points of the year. The
Cats slacked off in the second half and coasted to the victory with the score ending 105-88. The Cats finished
the game with a field goal percentage of 59.4. The team placed four men in double figures led by Dunn
who had 20 points. Falconi, Mike Sorrentino, and Horowitz added 17, 13, and 12 respectively.

ERRORIT “AT YOUR BOOKSTORE
Bowling MOOR LANES
Daytime Student Rates
Billiard Tables
Mooresville
PIN Ball Machines
Snack Bar
Cornelius, N. C.

NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING
“We Rent Tux”
Phone 892-8064
And Gifts 892-8468
See Our Large Selection of Cornelius

BROASTED CHICKEN—BOX OR BUCKET
“It’s Incomparable”
Sandwiches — Pizza
Sundaes
50 FLAVOR SHAKES

Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N. C.
10-9 P. M.
