Che Vol. LXII, No. Twenty-Five (Photo by News Bureau)

TIME FOR NEW DIRECTIONS
John M. Bevan outlines his ideas.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
May 4, 1973

Trustees, Faculty View Christian Commitment
By BRUCE MALOY
Managing Editor

The Davidson College Trustees began their spring session yesterday with a joint meeting with the faculty and staff. The meeting,
held at 2:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall, was to study the nature of the Christian commitment of the college. Two
educators who have written on religion and education spoke on “How can Davidson best express its continuing Christian commitment?” They
were Roland M. Frye, English professor at the University of Pennsylvania, and Rene D. Williamson, chairman of the department of
government at Louisiana State University and a former Davidson professor.

Davidson has sought to express its Christian com-

Bevan Calls For New Academic Focus To Meet Future Needs
By TOM BRUCE
Associate Editor

“There will be a significant shift in coming years at Davidson toward increasing emphasis in the liberal arts, as opposed
to preparation for the medical, legal, and business professions,” forecasted Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. Bevan stated
this week that the admissions squeeze in law schools and medical schools will get even tighter in the next decade.
Partly because of this, he thinks that students and faculty members must begin to think of Davidson as something more
than a pleasant interlude between high school and the ubiquitous “good” graduate school.

“Presently many students think of Davidson as just a great place to go to gain admission to a graduate school.
For them, Davidson is just a springboard. While this was possible during the 50s and 60s, we may have to
face the possibility in the future that for many students Davidson will be the culmination of their study,” said Bevan.

Bevan indicated that future policy decisions in the program area must take into account that students will regard Davidson as
a “total and self-supporting experience” rather than as a stepping stone. “This does not mean, of course, that we will
slacken our efforts to place our seniors in graduate and professional schools. To the contrary, I am encouraging our faculty
to make contact with the various graduate schools, so that we will have every advantage that comes with increasing familiarity,”
Bevan said.

Bevan stated that the profile of this year's entering freshman class showed that 90 percent of the students were planning
on attending graduate school, law school, medical school, or seminary. “We may have to look at passages in our catalog
which promulgate the notion of Davidson as a prelude to graduate school, an instant ticket to admission,” Bevan said. “I
am concerned with the student who is so obsessed with getting into law school or medical school that he feels
like a complete failure when his applications are not accepted. The competent student will not hinge his goals on anything
so fragile as going to a certain

Sophomore Candidacies Approval
By BRUCE CORSER
Asst. Managing Editor

The general student referendum Wednesday resulted in a change in the SGA constitution allowing for the election of either a
rising junior or rising senior for the presidential spot. Of the 360 students responding, 68.6 percent registered a positive vote
for this amendment, 10 votes over the necessary two-thirds majority necessary for approval. A similar proposal pertaining to the vice
presidential office passed with an 80.4 percent affirmative response. Prior to this revision, the SGA president had to be a
rising senior and the vice president a rising junior. A third proposed constitutional innovation, providing that the SGA president and
vice president would be eligible for re-election, captured a 53.2 percent positive vote. Nevertheless, it failed since the proposal lacked
a necessary two-thirds vote for enactment. A third addition, that passed with a 93.3 percent vote, was a proposal aimed
at fitting the composition of the Senate with the changing student body.

Bo Phillips, present SGA head, said that he was “quite pleased” with the referendum results. He had introduced the amendments
concerning opening up the presidential and vice presidential offices to different classes. “This means more flexibility for the SGA,” Phillips
commented. He noted that no longer would “any one class be geared up for electing one of its members to
the presidency.”

Bob Corlew, SGA vice president, related that he was disappointed the student body would let the president be a rising
junior. “I don't believe a person who has had one and a half years experience at Davidson can be as
effective as a person who has had two and a half years experience, regardless of how capable,” he said.Graduate school.
If rejection from med school makes him or her feel like dropping out of life, we haven't really taught anything
at all," he commented. Bevan indicated that a shift toward thinking of the Davidson experience as a total experience was
not motivated by pessimism, but that it would ultimately create a healthier climate on campus. "We are trying to teach
students about what it’s like to be human. This should be good preparation for any kind of work.

"In addition, we are moving ever closer to the idea of a leisure society. With more time at the disposal
of each person, a larger conception of humankind will be a greater advantage than we may think now," Bevan stated.

Commitment in many ways since its founding in 1837, said College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. "People have been saying
for a long time that we ought to get together and discuss what our Christian commitment means," added Spencer. "The
main purpose of this meeting is to take a look at our Christian commitment," he said. "I doubt that the
trustees will take any action as a result of this discussion at this meeting. This is also a good opportunity,"
continued Spencer, "for our faculty, staff, and trustees to get together and just get to know each other on an
informal basis." Spencer said that he felt that this would be "a very light meeting" and that little action would
be taken. "In the February meeting," said Spencer, "the trustees finished up most of the budget, fees, and financial matters
that they needed to deal with."

Vice President for Academic Affairs and liaison to the trustee committee on athletics said that he did not feel that
any proposals on subsidized athletics would come out of the committee at this meeting. "I imagine," said Bevan, "that they
will discuss the ramifications of their recent meeting on subsidized athletics."

Community member who by the high ber President Bo Phillips, Ratliff, and Earl to the first of June. Former are:
Professor Abernethy, Pietenpol, McGavock, Schenck, Puckett.

1962
1963
1964
1965
1966

Jefferson Award

The Thomas Jefferson Award Committee is presently requesting nominations for the 1973 Jefferson Award from all elements of the Davidson
community. The award is made each year to a faculty member whose teaching, writing, and scholarship promote the ideals of
Thomas Jefferson. The overriding outstanding quality is described as that of having "given himself generously and well beyond the normal
call of duty" to college causes, advancing in some manner those ideals and objectives personified in Thomas Jefferson. Eligible members
of the college community include persons associated with the college "in either teaching or administrative work." The recipient is recognized
at the fall convocation. Nominations may be submitted to any member of the committee, which includes DAVIDSONIAN editor Alec Hoon,
professor emeritus Lewis Schenck, local alumnus Bill McGuire, professors Charles MacCormac, and Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan.
Supportive written statements should accompany each nomination. Nominations should be given to any member of the committee prior to the
first of June.

Thomas Jefferson Award winners are:

1967 Professor Workman
1968 Locke White
1969 Abbott
1970 Rhodes
1971 MacCormac

Williamson has an A.B. from Rutgers and an A.M. and Ph.D. from Harvard. He taught at Davidson from 1937 to
1944 and has also taught at Princeton, Beloit, the University of Tennessee, and L.S.U. He has been active in several
of the highest committees and boards of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., and was president of the Southern Political Science Association
in 1959-60. He has written "Culture and Policy: The U.S. and the Hispanic World," "Independence and Involvement: A Christian Re-Orientation
in Political Science," and several other scholarly works.

Frye received an A.B. and Ph.D. from Princeton and attended Princeton Theological Seminary during 1950-52. He taught at Howard College
(now Samford University) and Emory University before going to Pennsylvania in 1965. He has written several works including "God, Man
and Satan," "Shakespeare and Christian Doctrine," "Perspective on Man: Literature and the Christian Tradition," and (as editor) "The Bible: Selections
for Study as Literature."
