CHIEF INVESTIGATOR OF WATERGATE:
The Senator ‘rejoices’ at Nixon's reversal.

Ervin Focuses Nation’s Eye

On Davidson Wednesday

By BRUCE CORSER
CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Asst. Managing Editors

Davidson College was the site of national interest Wednesday when Senator Sam J. Ervin held a press conference here concerning President Nixon's recent policy reversal in the Watergate issue.

Ervin responded to Nixon's statement that executive privilege would not be used to keep White House aides from testifying for the Senate committee studying the Watergate bugging. Ervin is chairman of this committee.

“I've always rejoiced when someone who's been wandering in error has been led back to the right path. Some of the news media in their editorials and also leading Republicans like Goldwater prompted this change."

Staff Photos by Pete Goodman

ERVIN’S ADDRESS
A capacity crowd hears speech.

Ervin and Senator Howard Baker recently met with Presidential advisor John Ehrlichman and drew up a set of guidelines for witnesses which were adopted by the committee and submitted to Nixon.

“The guidelines say that the committee will quietly give witnesses advanced notice and then release them from any further testimony. However, the committee reserves the right to call back witnesses.

"I'm glad the President used the guidelines in reversing his particular point of view that no White House aides would be allowed to testify,” he added.

The Senator was pleased with the cooperation the President has recently exhibited. “I'm glad that we can look forward to mutual understanding.

“I think we're going to get access to people who know something.” Ervin stated, however, that it was advisable not to comment on specific individuals at this time. He pointed out that he wanted to remain impartial because he is “a judge and juror on the committee.”

Ervin added he read that the WASHINGTON POST has suggested that there would be several more indictments. He commented that he had not talked with Nixon recently, and that he did not know which White House aides will resign. “I wouldn't tell you if I did,” he added.

Ervin contradicted the President's view that executive privilege exempted White House aides from testifying before Congress. He reiterated his previous posture that anything that prevents “executive aides from giving testimony by executive privilege is executive poppycock.

“Executive privilege provides that the President perform, in a lawful manner, any obligations to the Constitution or law.” Ervin said that it would have been tragic if the Congress had been willing to accept the thesis that executive privilege extended to White House aides.

“I'm glad the President has decided to let his aides testify,” he added.

The Senator emphatically stated, “The guidelines provide that the committee is going to do the ruling.”

By holding the witness in contempt and issuing a warrant for his arrest, the committee can require a witness to testify.

Ervin made a passing comment about the attorney general's wife Martha Mitchell's comment that she would like to testify before the committee.

He compared her to a man who claims to be a preacher who allegedly had revelations from God on the Watergate issue. Ervin said that the Lord may be more laconic in His testimony.

Summing up his position, Ervin said, “The American people are entitled to the truth.”

Page Three

The Davidsonian April 20, 1973

CAMPUS SIGHTSEEING
Senator Ervin, President Spencer and Bill Alexander confer.

NEWSMEN PROBE ERVIN
Talking about Presidential responsibility.

THE PRESS AT PHI HALL
National media swarm for Ervin’s conference.