(Staff Photo by Goodman)
TAKING AIM
Two booters prepare for the upcoming game against The Citadel.

Clubbers Cop First Win
Over Winthrop By 21-6

By JORDAN CLARK
Staff Writer

The Davidson club football team walked away with its first victory, a resounding 21-6 romp over Winthrop last Sunday.

The clubbers' shut-out attempt was thwarted in the last minute of play when two Cat defensive backs collided and allowed a receiver free entrance into the end zone.

Co-captain Bob Wetzel expressed contentment with the team’s performance.

“We played well. We completely dominated the whole game. Winthrop's only real offensive movement was halted by Mitch Reeve's fumble recovery.”

Frank McShain and Tony Boone also came up with loose balls as a hard-hitting Davidson defensive line kept the Winthrop ground game in check all day.

“The defense certainly did the job for us,” said Wetzel. “Gary Corn came up with a big interception and we had the typical stalwart games from Max Turner, Rollie White, John Yeoman, and George King.”

The offense fared pretty well also as a well-balanced attack chalked up three TDs.

After a scoreless first quarter, Jimmy Boyd hit Lester Albinger with a 55-yard scoring bomb.

Boyd connected on another long pass to make the halftime score 14-0.

In the third quarter, the Cats marched all over the field scoring six points as Boyd's quarterback sneak climaxed a drive of 15 plays.

Bill Bradford's third extra point conversion made the score 21-0.

“The offense played so much of the game that the defense was complaining about their lack of playing time,” said Wetzel.

“It was really sort of a ho-hum, boring game. We were in complete command,” Wetzel added.

Phil Bishop once again paced the Davidson rushers, gaining 60 yards for the day as tackles Zack Varnedough and Steve Vitek cleared the way.

“We were real happy to be able to use so many players,” said Wetzel. “We had two separate defensive units play and used a lot of subs on offense.”

Sunday the clubbers travel to Raleigh to face N.C. State in what Wetzel expects to be a close game.

“Any team in this league can romp over any other team on a given day, but comparing us with State by our common opponents, Duke and ECU, we look about even.”

After the State game, the club team travels to Virginia and UNC-Chapel Hill before closing out the season at home against UNC-C on Nov. 11.

SOME FACTS FOR INVESTORS IN MUTUAL INVESTING FOUNDATION'S PROSPECTUS

For your free copy, write

HERITAGE SECURITIES, INC.
Robert T. Hoyle
125 N. Main St
Davidson, N.C. 28036
Phone 892-0569

DAVIDSON GROCERY
FOR ALL YOUR GROCERY NEEDS

HOURS: 7 - 5:30 Mon - Sat
ONE BLOCK FROM THE COLLEGE

The Davidsonian
October 19, 1973
Nine

Booters Edge Furman 2-1
On Key Second Half Surge

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

After a clutch victory over conference rival Furman last Saturday, the Davidson soccer team moved one step closer to a shot at the Southern Conference title.

The Cats, who trail the Mountaineers of Appalachian by a game in the race for the crown, came from a 1-0 halftime deficit to edge by the Paladins, 2-1.

Jack Linard, who led the team to their first victory over Guilford by scoring three goals, had another outstanding performance in the second period as he booted both Cat scores by the Furman goal tender.

“It was a great win for us,” said head coach Chip Stone. “We still have a chance to win the title.”

But the Cat hopes hinge on more than their own abilities. In addition to their own victories, either Furman or The Citadel must beat the Mountaineers in their meetings near the end of the season.

“It is very possible that one of these two clubs will be able to beat Appalachian,” commented Stone. “I just hope that we will play up to our ability and beat The Citadel. After that, the pieces will just have to fall our way.”

That important contest with the Bulldogs takes place this Saturday on The Citadel home field. It is indeed a must game for the Cats in every respect.

In a non-conference contest on Tuesday of this week, the Davidson squad bested a tough High Point team by a score of 2-0.

It was, as the score indicates, a very tight defensive battle in which the Cats were able to get the goals for the win.

The victory put the Cats up to a 4-4-1 overall mark on the season.

After the Citadel clash, the Davidson club has three remaining contests. Their opponents include St. Andrews, N.C. State, and Belmont Abbey.

The Cats have a good chance to finish with a good record for Stone's initial year, in which he has tried “to build Davidson soccer by improving its schedule.”

170 N. Main

Whatever you want, we've got

ARMY-NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans

Mooresville, N.C.

WELCOME TO
WHAT-a-BURGER
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

“Barry Spacks’ SOMETHING HUMAN is a spirited, charming, and wholly readable collection.”—RICHARD WILBUR “There is a recurrent humor, always rooted in affection... The basic mood is hopeful, lighthearted; poems end in easings of tension, outward motions of release.”—THE YALE REVIEW

In addition to poetry, Barry Spacks has published two novels, THE SOPHOMORE and ORPHANS. He teaches writing and contemporary literature at M.I.T., and lives with his daughter and wife, the critic Patricia Meyer Spacks, in Wellesley, Massachusetts.

Barry Spacks will be in the Rathskeller Wednesday, October 24 at 8 p.m.