Page Six January 26, 1973 The Davidsonian

Clark Explains Need For Compassion
By BRUCE MALOY
Asst. Managing Editor

Poverty as the root of crime and compassion as the preventative of crime were themes which Ramsey Clark pounded in his two speeches here as part of the three-day corrections symposium.

Clark's first lecture, delivered Monday night in Love Auditorium, examined crime as a phenomenon. “Out of the total range of things people do that hurt other people,” said Clark, “what we call crime covers only a few of these. Most people don't think of embezzlement or price-fixing when they think of crime, but the electric company price-fixing during the fifties diverted more money into private pockets than all of the burglaries and armed robberies in the same year,” Clark said.

Clark then used examples from his tour of the Watts ghetto to support his thesis that “poverty is the mother of crime.” He cited unemployment, poor transportation, poor health care, overcrowded schools, and intolerable housing as causes of mental stagnation and despair which led to crime. “There are people living there who have never been in a room by themselves,” said Clark. “Imagine what that would do to your psychological development. How do you expect people to find a job when it takes a two and a half hour bus ride costing 95 cents to get to any place where you could find work available?” asked Clark.

After showing what an environment like Watts can do to a person's development, Clark pointed out the need to screen inmates to determine if they are mentally deficient. “I believe that 25 percent of the people in prison are mentally retarded,” said Clark.

In Tuesday's speech aimed at corrections, Clark reiterated the point that, “We must recognize the humanity of prisoners before we can address the problems.” Clark cited some of the absurdities in the prison system such as teaching men to make license plates. The only place a man could find a job making license plates is in another prison. Quoting Dostoevski, a prisoner himself, Clark said, “The cruelest punishment that can be given to a person is to make him work hard at a meaningless job.

“Our prisons manufacture crime,” said Clark. “Eighty percent of the people who commit serious crimes have been in prison before. We have more addicts walking out of jails and prisons than we have walking in,” Clark continued. Clark pointed to the need for better efforts at helping prisoners stay outside once they have been released saying, “When you leave Attica prison, you get a suit and fifty dollars.”

When asked at the end of the speech for some ways that people could help the situation, Clark said, “We need a lot more people who will work with the professional and non-professional custody people and the inmates.” Clark continued this thought at a news conference in the Morrison Room at 11 a.m. on Tuesday saying, “We must recognize the need to make the police force a service organization rather than a para-military organization.” Clark had earlier cited an example of eighteen New York City policemen who had been specially trained to handle family crisis situations. They were able to reconcile differences instead of just giving a lecture or taking someone off to jail. “The necessity for this type of police training,” said Clark, “is shown by the fact that 85 percent of the people that are murdered are killed by their family or friends.”

CLARK MEETS DAVIDSON (Staff photo by Porter)
Ramsey Clark discusses corrections with interested listeners.

Workshops Offer New Views Of Correctional Institutions
By ALAN FORD
Staff Writer

The Symposium on Corrections ended Wednesday with four workshops held in the College Union. According to Peter Sterling, assistant director of the College Union, the major purpose in holding the workshops was “to have a real dialogue about what is wrong with the corrections system and what is needed to correct it. The idea was to get the participants involved in the dialogue, to make the participants and the participation important,” he said.

Inmate Or ‘Man On The Street’
By BETSY ALEXANDER
Staff Writer

Prison life is miserable. The physical aspects, being deprived of your family. The loneliness is tremendous. Asking the inmate of a corrections institution to tell you “what it’s like” is rather like asking your older brother to explain why it’s beautiful."What's college like?" you ask. You're living under pressure, in a world of fear. Not him. A lot of questions, which he answers, but you can never really understand what college life is like until you have experienced it yourself. All your questions turn out to be rather pointless.

Limuel "Donut" Thomas is 40 years old, a pleasant, affable gentleman, bald, bearded, and benign. He is also an inmate at the McLeansville prison unit, convicted of assault with a deadly weapon. Since age thirteen, Limuel has been in a home for juveniles, local jails, state penitentiaries, and federal prisons. He is currently at McLeansville on a study release program learning welding and auto mechanics.

What is prison life like? "It's like a sunset. You see it, you live in fear of a major infraction. No matter what the commissioner says, that is the prison system; that last man at the bottom of the pole. He's the one you see. I don't ever see the commissioner or the superintendent. It's that last man."

Donut had completed his tenth-grade education when he entered prison. He took the GED for the equivalent of a high school education. Ten years ago he began the Work Release program, the first in his unit. In 1971, he was the first to begin the study release program at vocational school. He finished the first quarter with a 4.0 average.

"I'm a guinea pig," said Donut. "I don't know if they know it, but I know it. I'm under pressure. They want to see if I can cope."

Home is Greensboro, family, his mother. The study release project is carried out at the inmate's initiative. "For study release, you tell them you're interested in it, the reasons why, work out transportation, pay for the courses." Some of the things "they" teach you are useful for when you become a 'man on the streets.' "Life is regimented in the streets," said Donut, "whether you know it or not."

Three things he learned at the reform school: "how to hate, how to make keys to open locks, and how to hit a man where it hurts the most. And," he added, "how to play football. I could've been pretty good at football if it hadn't been for my temper."

He learned that a newspaper could not use his name or print his picture without his written consent. He learned that might means right from the guards who attended him, from the way that they enforced the rules. "The root of the problem is the way the man gets along with the last man on the pole. The federal penitentiaries tried. They had programs back in 1950. But the personnel hadn't changed. A lot of reforms fail. You have to take two things into consideration: the man is a loser; the man helping him is a winner. There has to be some sense of identity between the winner and the loser."

By July, Mr. Limuel Thomas will be a "man on the streets." Perhaps this time he won't be one of the 80 percent who come back.

Participants in the workshops included prison inmates, juvenile offenders, Davidson students, people from the community, and professional corrections people. Some of the professional corrections people came as participants in the workshops, not as directors. One such individual was the warden of Central Prison in Raleigh. The presence of such men in the workshops allowed the other participants a chance for a direct insight into the correctional systems of the country. By participating in workshops in which such aspects of correctional systems as the use of psychodrama were discussed, the college and community had a chance to gain a better understanding of the entire correctional system, its shortcomings, and its strengths.

Although pleased with the positive response with which the North Carolina Department of Corrections greeted the Symposium, Sterling was not pleased with the response of the students. "I was very disappointed with the turnout of students for the Symposium, especially for the workshops. I don't know what the reason is. We certainly did everything we could in publicity and planning," he said.