Six November 2, 1973 The Davidsonian

THE ASPARAGUS OF HIS EYE

(Staff photo by Trawick)

Student observes Laura Grosch vegetable exhibit.

Grosch Show Opens Interreacti

A Review By ROGER MANLEY Staff Writer

Laura Grosch's show in Stowe Galleries this month provides a rare opportunity for the relative and inherent qualities of three mediums of expression—pencil drawing, lithograph, and acrylic painting—to be compared and readily analyzed. This is possible because several of the subjects, various plant forms all, are repeated in each of the three mediums. Thus it is possible, for instance, to see a Boston Lettuce rendered in a large drawing, the same lettuce rendered in a larger lithograph, and again the very same lettuce presented as a still larger painting.

In each case, the visible technique remains basically the same: the images are built of pure colors applied in minutely spaced lines which overlap variously. Where different colors cross, they interact to produce modeling, which in this case is highly sculptural—we are made aware first of the mass of the object depicted, and then of shape and color, and lastly, if at all, of surface textures. There are exceptions, notably the relatively small drawing entitled "Pear Blossoms," but generally the natural surfaces of the objects are surrendered to the cross-hatching technique.

The dominant technique does not seem to work equally well in all three mediums. Indeed, largely because of the great degree of magnification involved in painting with the striping tool Grosch used, the three paintings seemed the least successful of the works exhibited. This might not have been so apparent had the paintings depicted subjects other than those already represented as drawings or prints. On the other hand, the weakest painting, "Fern," is not represented as a drawing or a print.

I think the lithographs are best. They display a cool, almost electric quality (the "Asparagus" litho vibrates). Unlike the drawings, in which Grosch has confined each color area with a thin outline, the prints have an open and emergent quality, and the colors more often mix rather than starkly overlap. The drawings, also, imply a greater spirit of freedom than do the paintings. The individual lines have direct and calligraphic characteristics not found in the uniform and unyielding lines of the paintings. The lines which unify and interact in the drawings and lithographs become rigid and overpowering in the paintings.

Grosch composes classically. There is little imbalance and the presentation is straightforward. Her use of background (which, to contradict myself, does cause exciting imbalance in her litho "Amaryllis on Adire Cloth") as an integral part of the fairly strict structure of some of the works is interesting: the sense of depth normally implied by background is here actually denied by it. Where the backgrounds form a part of the content of the objects, the plants become limited in space in a way unlike those plants depicted against blank backgrounds.

Altogether, it is a good show. Laura Grosch's perceptions and sense of form are strong, even if her choice of techniques seems at times a bit too overriding.

(Staff photo by Rodriguez)

TONGUE IN CHINK

"I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all."

The American Film Theatre Presents ‘A Delicate Balance’

A REVIEW By BLAIN BUTNER Staff Writer

The lights went down in the Cinema II Theater shortly after 2 p.m., so the curtains rose in hundreds of movie houses across the nation as thousands of theatergoers adjusted themselves in their seats for the upcoming matinee. And for the next 2 hours and 12 minutes, they sat back and viewed Katharine Hepburn, Paul Scofield, and other top actors in Edward Albee’s screen adaptation of his own play, "A Delicate Balance." Such began the first American Film Theatre Series in this country.

The film begins with a resounding "Shit!"—muffled but still resounding—uttered as a verbal expression of the mundanity which infests the play's family from this point to the closing curtain of the play. Katharine Hepburn, who portrays Agnes, is a powerful, overly domineering wife who in her own semi-placid manner seeks to maintain a house of order. Her husband Tobias, played by Paul Scofield, is the subservient, emasculated husband who never gets excited by anything. Period. The third member of the resident household is Agnes’ live-in sister Claire, portrayed by Kate Reid. The antagonizing and often verbose alcoholic, Claire enjoys berating Tobias and inciting the others to anger and...Verbal intoxication. But briefly the story. Tobias and Agnes with sister Claire live in an upper-class house surrounded by all the jewels of an upper-class life. Into their peacefully neurotic existence intrude Harry and Edna, Tobias’ “best friends in the whole world,” who timidly proclaim, “We were all alone... and then nothing happened, but... WE GOT FRIGHTENED.” Coupled with this bizarre entrance is the advent of Agnes’ and Tobias’ daughter Julia, home from her fourth broken marriage. From this point, the plot is very simple: six people, clustered into one house, are forced to face the very serious communal crisis of duty to one’s family versus responsibility to one’s “best friends.” The plague which Harry and Edna carry infests everyone (with the possible exception of Claire) to the extent that they can no longer cope with each other. Albee leaves it at that. Edna and Harry do leave quietly, but that is it. We have been presented with a grim reality, the sordidness of superficial existences and empty communication. Arousal, but no supplication. Awareness but no solution, Albee.

‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’ Shimmers

A Review By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Asst. Features Editor

After seeing Rupert Barber’s new production of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” one is reminded of the statement which begins “A Tale of Two Cities,” that it was the best of times, the worst of times. Certainly, any consideration at all of the student opening of a play, really a dress rehearsal, may be premature, but there is a surprisingly uneven texture to the whole effort. Such a wavering quality may be as a result of the unevenness of the play itself. Often, however, it seems that actors and director saw which scenes and characters immediately came alive, and were content to let the rest falter and die. The scene in Act IV with Theseus, Egeus, Hippolyta, and the rest of the entourage nearly died such a death. But alongside such wearied interludes stand moments of dazzling execution. Patsy Arnold's consistently charming performance of Helena, the version of Pyramus and Thisbe, the play within a play performed by the rustics Hal McCoy, Frazier Marsh, Bill Morris, Scot Reid, Joe McMillan, and Paul Welch, provide some of these moments.

Hal McCoy in particular delivers a refreshingly well-controlled and perfectly timed burlesque as Quince. The whole scene is one of the really magical instants of the play. Most of the true magic of the plot is done similarly well. Graham Smith's Puck and Charles Palmer’s Oberon both provide delightful renditions of the point and counterpoint of Fairy Land, god and sprite. A large portion of the credit for the graceful Fairy episodes should be given to Carol Barber for the costumes, and Mike Ramsey for the set design. The multi-leveled set with its ability to change its character along with the movement of different characters on and off the stage marvelously metamorphoses from the particularity of Theseus’ Palace, to an Athenian forest, and finally to some diaphanous middle ground fairies. In most instances, the costuming of the actors is the only element needed to alter the entire atmosphere of the stage from one locale to another.

The production does at times shimmer with magic, but then the lapses are only made the more obvious. A serious problem which becomes evident is an attempt on the part of certain of the cast to slight the importance of the language of the comedy, a tendency which shows itself in two symptoms. The one, perhaps of lesser importance, is an apparent desire to ignore the metric form of the play. The comedy is written in verses of iambic pentameter, and no elocutionary acrobatics can eschew that fact. Certainly, to hear a cast speak in jingles for two hours would be maddening, but to hear it trying desperately to avoid those five persistent iambs can be similarly annoying. There is a happy medium. More blatantly exasperating is the frequent inaudibility of many of the actors, and a great deal of overly rapid delivery. It is difficult to appreciate or laugh without hearing. Once again, however, these problems may be explained by the circumstances of an opening night and a dress rehearsal. Suffice to say that despite all the vicissitudes of the production, the evening with Puck, Oberon, and the young lovers could be an enchanting one. Go and see “A Midsummer Night's Dream,” and look for the magic; with Shakespeare, it will always be there for those who want to find it.