FOUR YEARS BEFORE THE MAST
ALAN BARAGONA

Cracked Bell Plunges Artist Into Dark Literati Catacombs

It occurred to me, albeit irrationally and without foundation, that all those oral interpreters of their own wit are of a kind that gives its audience sly, side-long glances from the front, much the same way as Karloff peered underhandedly over the froth of his devilish chemistry (take note, our department!) to watch his victim quiver. It was these sort of eye-flicked razorblades from That Woman reading us That Book, trying to pare away our webs of maya to see what reactions she could wheedle, plus the third year (at least) in a row of Vereen Bell with a crack in it as long as your arm plus bringing in the very scant sheaves of Davidson produce “por la revista literaria,” as it were, that sent me plunging with a firm wack on my tail into the catacombs of Davidson literati past and present.

With Elroy as my Xanthias, I slinked across Pattersonhenge postally (nightwise) until mistress moon hit her zenith and dropped her rays heavily on a manhole, where there materialized the spectral form of Ralph Nadir, rubbing his topknot. Then I remembered that Nadir, years ago, had purged the Davidson literary scene of all quality that might be harmful for human consumptives. He, then, was our key to the underworld, as Elroy and I sought to restore, from the past if necessary, the crowning glories of verbal invention to Davidson. He led us to that shack beside Pattersonhenge, where what purports to be the controls for the water main turned out to be the gateway to our desires.

There in the recesses of the sub-campus lay the jetsam of “belles lettres.” There were Ravenel, performing his play to himself in a mirror, and Jeff Graham, scurrying across a mock veldt with manuscripts tucked under his arm, and, some of you might remember, Ashton Algertrice, the basilisk who made good. Each in his niche, each a memory stored away neatly and forgotten in the Davidsoniana Room. Among many others.

But then there were the ectoplasms of those still with us. Peter Cinnamoncrisp, etching from the rock delicate miniatures in imitation of the outside perspective masters and not-so-masterful. But when I approached, he tucked them away. And Curl Fratcourt, delineating rustic sketches with bold, direct lines. But when I opened my mouth he stuffed them into his pipe. And our own Nid, who used to draw out beads of sweat on the nape of my neck when he shone the Iberian sun at me. I would have approached him but who likes to be laughed at by a Hemingway nut? And there were Gil Dutch and J. S. Winking, who used to truss us in Joycean knots and derail us over waterfalls (respectively). But they send theirs quarterly all too elsewhere. And Gray Wolfe Faulkner Suh, who could burn out a story fast as he could read it and leave hot streaks across your forehead. But when I asked him, he blazed off down the Yoknapatawpha River, paddling furiously, leaving me keening in my urine yellow shirt.

So I proposed a contest to see whose work was weightier and who would join us back on top (a trick I learned from an old Greek pervert in the Mooresville bus station). Then I stood back to avoid the rush. I said the rush. Ahem. Okay. Now. Okay? Hmm. Those that even bothered to stop what they were doing just stared, and the couple that didn’t just stare smiled, and the one who didn't just smile went into hysterics. I couldn't understand it. I just couldn't. So I asked Nadir what had come over Davidson to turn them away so, and he brushed off his hands, flicked his lapel once proudly. A job well done.

So I asked Elroy, who told me how Leonardo's great work melted off the wall in shame at being in the company of the poetasters of the paint set, because there was nobody there to keep the paint from coming off. And nobody cared. And from all around me: Brekekekek ko-ax ko-ax!

The Davidsonian
May 4, 1973
Page Five

FACULTY COLUMN

Professor Questions Death Penalty Role
By Winfred P. Minter
Professor of Political Science

Last June the Supreme Court struck down in “Furman vs Georgia” the statutes involving the death penalty in 39 states and the federalcrime code. The decision came at a time when the national trend, in line with other leading western nations, was toward eliminating capital punishment. No person has been executed in the United States since 1967, and the statistics have indicated a steady decline in the infliction of the penalty since the 1930s. Executions averaged 128 per year in the 1940s and 72 per year during the 1950s. By 1963, the number had dropped to 21; in 1964, it was 15; seven were executed in 1965; only one and two were legally killed in 1966 and 1967, respectively. A general policy of stays of execution was adopted by appellate courts awaiting the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court, which came in mid-1972. The high court cleared nearly 600 condemned persons from death rows but left issues of capital punishment still in doubt, and the debate continues with renewed vigor. Despite a great deal of evidence that capital punishment is not a deterrent to the crimes that it is designed to prevent, and is counter to a rising tide of public opinion condemning the use of the death penalty on ethical and moral grounds, the American public is seriously divided on the question. The “hard liners,” with such national figures as Richard M. Nixon, Nelson Rockefeller, and Billy Graham among them, seem to be gaining ground. Four states have revived capital punishment so far by revising their laws along lines suggested by the Supreme Court, while numerous legislatures are considering such laws. The Nixon Administration has sent similar proposals to Congress. It is of interest to look at the Supreme Court's decision in some detail in order to see its effect in the current controversies. The case is more revealing of the individual attitudes of the justices than is true of the average decision, as “Furman vs. Georgia” brought separate opinions from every member of the Court. The Court was split 5-4 in favor of declaring the presently operative capital punishment laws unconstitutional in violation of the “cruel and unusual punishment” clause of the Eighth Amendment. Thurgood Marshall was the only justice to come close to being an absolutist in his opposition to capital punishment, but he faintly suggested that in his opinion there might conceivably be exceptional circumstances in which a carefully drawn law permitting capital punishment would be constitutional. But his emphasis is weighted heavily against the principle of legal executions. The other justices of the majority, Brennan, Stewart, White, and Douglas, objected mainly to the laws as presently written and administered. They failed to meet squarely the constitutional question based on the substantive principle, narrowing their opinions to assert their objections to the current statutes. Justice White summed up the majority consensus when he said that “The imposition and execution of the death penalty is obviously cruel and unusual punishment in the dictionary sense. But the penalty has not been considered cruel and unusual punishment in the constitutional sense because it was thought justified by the social ends it sought to serve. Because the law in question is not applied in a consistent manner against all convicted of such crimes, it is pointless and needless extermination of life with only marginal contributions to any discernible social or public purpose. This penalty is cruel and unusual only because of the negligible returns to the state.” The decision seems to be an open invitation to legislatures to rewrite their laws so as to include mandatory sentencing of death for specific crimes. The dissenting justices, all Nixon appointees, reflect “strict constructionist” attitudes involving a rather rigid deference to legislative decisions: the court should stay out of the political decision-making process assigned by the Constitution to elected representatives of the people. Justice Blackmun stated that he personally rejoices at the decision but cannot accept it as a matter of history, law, or constitutional pronouncement. Justice Burger feels that legislatures are better equipped to make penetrating studies of such questions than are courts. Justice Rehnquist believes that the Court’s majority decision is not an “act of judgment” but rather an “act of will,” demonstrating to him that the Justices significantly lacked the humility and deference due the legislative decisions. There is no conclusive evidence as to the deterrent effects of the death penalty, even though statistical correlations would suggest that it is very effective. Absolute judgment in such areas of social controversy is practically never possible because of the subjective values involved. Nixon cannot justify his conclusion that the death penalty definitely deters specific crimes any more than the opposite position can be scientifically maintained. It seems to be that the main argument that capital punishment is by its very nature inhuman and barbarous and therefore unacceptable in a civilized society is persuasive. It is all the more persuasive in the absence of agreement as to capital punishment's deterrence capabilities. It is a matter that is too important to leave to the legislative process, which is likely to make decisions in the emotional environment of “law and order” politics.