Harper Ranked Third Nationally in Passing
By CHRIS YOUNG, Staff Writer

Saturday morning when it was announced that Gerald Ford would be our new Vice President and that President Nixon would
never give up the Watergate tapes, it was also a virtual certainty that the Wildcat football team would collapse in
front of powerful William and Mary. David Harper thought otherwise.

In an effort not before witnessed this season by Davidson football fans, the offensive machine of the Wildcats started to
roll. Before the game was over, the Wildcats had amassed some 532 total yards, which brought back memories of the
777 yards piled up against Erskine College back in 1946. Harper completed 37 of 59 passes for 374 yards and
had the William and Mary secondary fighting for their lives most of the game. Gary Pomeroy, with 13 catches, led
the Wildcat receivers, with Walt Walker and Mike Harding raking in 11 and eight respectively.

Harper's arm permitted the Wildcats to control the game far better than at any time earlier this season. The Cats
ran 95 plays from scrimmage. The 1973 Wildcat average is slightly above 71. Although the Davidson team lost the game,
the credit due Harper and the entire team for the courage they displayed against enormous odds is tremendous.

Harper was voted Southern Conference Player of the Week and Athlete of the Week. His 37 completions set a new
Southern Conference record and placed him third in the collegiate rankings of top quarterbacks. Harper, as may be expected, was
pleased with the performance of the whole Davidson team, particularly with his receivers and his offensive blocking.

“When you drop back to pass 58 times and only get tackled once, you know the line and the blocking
backs are doing a tremendous job,” said Harper. He was equally complimentary of the efforts of his receivers.

Undoubtedly, quarterback David Harper, on whose shoulders the success or failure of the offense rests, will face his sternest test
of the season against Air Force tomorrow. Fagg feels that Harper could very well repeat his performance of last week
against the Falcons. “If Dave is on and the offense pulls together like they did last week, then our passing
game stands a good chance to upset Air Force,” Fagg said.

PLAYER OF THE WEEK
Quarterback Dave Harper received the Southern Conference Offensive Player of the Week award for his performance against William and Mary.
Harper completed 37 of 58 attempts against the Indians.

Harriers Snap Jinx With Richmond Win
Overcoming the one-point defeat plague, the Davidson cross-country team defeated a powerful Richmond team, then followed with a third-place finish
in Monday’s Davidson Invitational. The harriers met Richmond last Friday on Davidson’s home course for a six-mile race. Richmond had
a very successful recruiting year, and three of their top freshmen runners were from the same high school. But, with
all the statistics aside, the Wildcats went out and ran the best team race of the season, coming out on
top, 27-29.

Sailors Wrecked At OD
By TRACY CHARLES, Staff Writer

The regatta scheduled to be held at Old Dominion University last weekend was cancelled after six...Schools tried sailing the ODU
boats for several hours, but were unable to hold them together. New masts on all of the boats, coupled with
inexperienced workmanship on the part of ODU, caused shrouds and masts to disconnect and fall about the heads of the
visiting skippers. This coming weekend looks to be more favorable for the team. The Fall Eliminations will be held at
Davidson this weekend. On Saturday, five teams will vie for one of the first three places. These three teams will
go on to the Championships on Nov. 10. The location of the Championships will be determined by the three top
teams. In an effort to get students to attend the eliminations, the sailing team has ordered a keg of beer
to whet the thirst of those who want to picnic, study, and watch the races off the point Saturday afternoon.
In addition to the beer, there will be information on the nature of the race course. This will include its
position and how it is to be sailed. These efforts are being made for the benefit of those who know
little or nothing about sailing. Those who know little or nothing about sailing are invited to come, relax, learn something
about racing, and indulge in beer and good weather. The races start at 10 a.m.

FESTIVAL
Shows at 8 and 10
All three for $1.00 or $.50 separately

The most outstanding performance came from Rick Bell. Martin was also very impressed with the performances of Jeff Neikirk and
Jesse Smith, who finished fourth and fifth, respectively, behind Bell and two Richmond runners. “Rick had his best race of
the year,” Martin commented. “He led the entire race.” Bell covered the six-mile course in an impressive time of 33:04.
Besides Neikirk and Smith, Martin also cited the performances of sophomore Bill Cole and junior Rick “The Lube” Deal. “They
did a real fine job of breaking up the Richmond team,” he praised. After the much-deserved win against Richmond, the
Wildcats hosted three other teams in the Davidson Invitational. The three teams participating were Wake Forest, High Point, and Appalachian.

Leona’s Jewelers
A trusted reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N.C.

Thurs., Oct. 25
TALES OF TERROR
Friday, Oct. 26
DRACULA NOSFERATU
Sat., Oct. 27
DUNWICH HORROR

The distance was set once again at six miles. When it was over, Davidson finished a “disappointing” third, with first
place going to a much improved Deacon team, while Appalachian copped second. “As a team, we had one of our
worst races of the season,” according to Martin. “I think the boys were suffering from Friday’s meet and they had
a tough time running the meets so close together.” Wake Forest ran a very impressive race, with number one man
Tommy Rae finishing the six miles in 31:42. Number one finisher for Davidson was Bell. Presently sporting a 4-5 won-loss
record, the Wildcat Harriers travel to Raleigh this weekend for the North Carolina State Championships. After Saturday's meet, the cross
country team travels to High Point for a Tri-meet with High Point and Elon. “The tri-meet should boost our record
to over .500,” Martin said in an optimistic tone.

MOOR LANES BOWLING
N.C. 115, MOORESVILLE
SNACK BAR
POOL TABLES
PIN-BALL MACHINES
Special Daytime Prices

FAMILY SIZED PIZZA
SEND OUT FOR PIZZA
One Coupon Per Pizza

PEPPY'S PIZZA BARN
550 N. Main
Phone 663-2792
Mooresville

COUPON GOOD FOR DINING IN OR TAKE OUT
