MILES WARD  
The Davidsonian  
January 12, 1973  
Page Five  

Honors College Initiates Reverse Logic  

Miss Daughtry, take a letter please. Will made a good argument. My official stand on the future of the Honors College. Let's see now. Entitle it a personal sounding ‘Dear Jack’. But make sure that everyone sees it.”  
“Send to the President: and one to Cornell and his office. And to that new committee. The faculty here at the Inn. One to Karl Barth, and a carbon copy to Sandy McKelway at Princeton.”  
“Let's start it something like, ‘Dear Jack. With recent controversy concerning the role and the future of the Honors College program, I find it incumbent upon me to give you some official stand on the matter."  
“What? Oh, it's spelled i-n-c-u-m-b-e-n-t. Yes. I'll continue with ... ‘As dean, leader, and former president I have accumulated a few insights and tall tales in my time. My method is quite simple, though. I've seen three generations of Davidson students. Last year I taught my first grandson of an old student. All this educating has worn me down a bit, and I admit to looking forward to finishing things up and just growing camellias. Most importantly, I have learned that education must proceed cautiously but regularly. Experience of the years and an understanding of history has generated a new logic which I apply to all my decisions. I call it the logic of hindsight, or ‘logic in reverse’. This simply means that for any...’”

Judy Agnew, featured columnist of the ‘‘National Lampoon,’’ will speak in Dana Auditorium at Queens College tomorrow night at 7:30 p.m. She will consider the old adage “a woman's place is in the home,” having titled her speech “My Place Is in the White House.’’ She will be accompanied by her husband Spiro, a government functionary.  

The Rolling Stones will appear in concert Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Charlotte Coliseum. Due to past trouble with federal agents, it is doubtful that the Stones will roll anything. Tickets are $2.50, $3.50, and $4.50.  

The Oratorio Singers of Charlotte will present the first of their two 1973 concerts tomorrow at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. The singers will perform ‘‘The Happiest Girl In the Whole USA” by Wells Fargo and “I Am Woman” by I. M. Reddi. The chorus is directed by D. Bryce Plott, chairman of Davidson's music department. Student tickets are $2.75, $2, and $1.50.  

Tattooed lampshades on loan from the Auschwitz Museum of Art will be on display in Carol Hall at Queens College through Jan. 31. Karl Wissiger, their creator, will give a lecture on “The Art of Creative Flaying” Tuesday at 4:17 p.m. There is no admission charge.  

‘The Undersea World of Jacques Cousteau" is the current production of the Pineville Dinner Theatre. Featured performer is Flipper, star of stage and screen. The buffet opens at 7 p.m. with the curtain rising at 8:30. Tickets are $7 Saturday, $8.50 Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, $9 Friday, and $10 Saturday.  

Christ's Second Coming will be held in the Charlotte area Jan. 17. Check next week's DAVIDSONIAN for further details.  

David Cassidy will brush his hair in the film “David Brushes His Hair," the third of the series “Famous Davids Of History”. Children under 18 will not be admitted. The film will be shown at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday in the Broomcloset Theatre of the Mint Museum of Art. The audience will be paid to attend.  

“Oh! Calcutta” will be presented in Rodehaver Auditorium of Bob Jones University Jan. 16, 17, and 18 at 8 p.m. Starring BJU President Bob Jones III, the auditorium will be off-limits to BJU students. Tickets are $5, $4.50, and $2.  

“Fritz, the Cat,” a 1971 American cartoon, continues the Kino Fine Film series this Sunday in the Golden Circle Theatre of the Mint Museum of Art. Admission is by season ticket only.  

“Great Jails of the East,” a travelogue film by the late J. Edgar Hoover, will be shown Monday night at 9 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. Tickets are $2.50.  

Paintings by Leonardo da Vinci are on display in the Round Gallery of the Mint Museum of Art.  

Highlighting Proposal Submitted For Gay Liberation  

To the Editor:  
Arise Davidson men, and burn your nutthuggers, freeballers, swing easies, and Model D's! The time has come to liberate yourself of those restricting undergarments. Come with me and form a chapter of Gay (Yes, I'm gay and proud as hell of it!) Liberation Front on this campus to spread our interests. With such a movement, no longer need you be ashamed of eating corn and redeye. Gays around the world have come together and proclaimed their love of their fellow man (and animal). And we can do likewise if you will gather around our banner. We could truly make Davidson “the home of the whopper”. I have drawn up a list of 21 demands to submit to the college for immediate action, including daily mandatory gym showers so that we can see what everyone has to offer (for to quote Shakespeare, “Thereby hangs a tale”). We would also demand that suitable housing be constructed to house our dates. Join the Front and be the first lucky Pierre on your hall!  

DrixGiven the situation, we must reason backwards, from conclusions to premises. And we have no more suitable conclusions than the facts and experiences of each day. In my logic, we look behind to correct our mistakes and not worry over how the future may influence the future perfect.

Entertainment This Week:
Before the exhibit is the original fresco, "The Last Supper." The Defeat of Peace will be the subject of day-long festivities in Washington, D.C. on Jan. 20. Parades, floats, bands, clowns, and Spiro Agnew will be on hand to provide comic relief for the keynote speaker Richard Milhouse Nixon. There is no admission charge, but exit by death or emigration only.

ALAN BARAGONA

As I work each day, I see the mistakes we made a few years ago perpetuating themselves, guiding our current mistakes. This Honors College system is today in a terrible mess. We've lost our best teachers and students. I submit it's time for a change.

Now I think the only reasonable solution is to expand rather than curtail the present system. We have some good students left. Why, I saw one just the other day. It's unfair to punish him for the mistakes and unconcern of others.

It seems to me that the Honors College should be enlarged, pushed out at every position. First, we would make every student a member of the Honors College. This solves our biggest problem, that of admissions. I confess that after five years I still don't know of any selection system we use. If we like them, then they're in.

This done, we preserve our selectivity by requiring applications for admission to the regular courses meeting each day. If only the best students can get to class, this will dry up the criticism of faculty members, who claim we've placed ourselves above the regular college and taken the best students out of class. So putting everybody in the Honors College would restore a better balance to education here. I'm convinced of that.

In addition, we can just keep a little more hot water around here and turn this building into a Union. Now instead of a small elite group here, we can have a big elite group of 1,000. This solves the Student Union crisis, and it settles the controversy over exclusion, just like the trustees did with fraternities. If we can't do anything constructive, at least we can redefine our position and make the problem vanish.

Now we can claim that every student has scheduling benefits and freedoms. (I hope you have a list of those benefits and freedoms. I lost mine.) In making this move, we could attract national publicity again. It's a good way to take credit for some positive educational achievement, without taking any risk at all.

So you see, it's not really a step forward or backward. We just wait a few years. And this seems entirely consistent with all our philosophy and practice.

Many thanks, I await your reaction.

Frontis Johnston
Dean

Mott the Wopple Lists Letters From Affectionate Admirers

Dear Mr. the Wopple,
At the recent convention of the MLA, mention was made of your literary debt to Reynard the Fox, Pilgrim's Progress, and Listen to the Warm, largely from the view of psychosocio-histological influence. I took issue with the mentioner, pointing out the much more obvious use of Dantean water imagery and the Jamesian (Henry) consciousness in conflict with the Jungian overtones of the Kudzu-vine tradition. I would like to know if Northrop is right or if I am.
I. A. Richards

Dear Mr. the Wopple,
I have read all your columns and cannot fathom your symbolism. I think we could all use a Who's Who in Mott the Wopple’s Column.
Federico Fellini & the Davidson Student Body

Dear Mr. the Wopple,
I have read your column and would like to be friends with you because you like flowers and youth and stuff and wear sneakers and are friends with the sea and Jean and cats and pretty green things.
Rod

Dear Mr. the Wopple,
Information concerning the whereabouts of Don Guappo Lasagne is urgently needed. Enclosed is a stamped, self-addressed envelope and $1000.
The Internal Revenue Service

Dear Mr. the Wopple,
In a joint effort, we of the Stanford Math and Logic Departments have run your columns through three banks of computers and all they read back is Finnegan's Wake. How do you account for this?
(Names withheld for the sake of tenure.)

Dear Mr. the Wopple,
Information concerning the whereabouts of Don Guappo Lasagne is urgently needed. Enclosed is a stamped, self-addressed envelope and $1000.
Mrs. Lasagne

Dear Mr. the Wopple,
I fed your column to my rat and he died.
R. D. Laing

Dear Mr. the Wopple,
I find your column an ichorous seepage of deliberate obfuscation and sniggering pubescent witticisms unfit to be scrawled on bog paper for a bordello’s lavatory.
Harold Robbins

Dear Mr. the Wopple,
I would like to collect your columns as an appendix to my Principia Mathematica but first I'd like to know just who Numb Elroy is supposed to be. Huh? Tell me, okay? Who?
Bertrand Russell

OUR HERO
Columnist Alan Baragona makes a surprise daylight appearance.