= Friday, October 26
Up ‘n’ Coming all day
University of Penn.
Martin Room
Wharton Graduate School of Business
8 & 10 p.m. Horror Festival: Love Auditorium
“Dracula”

= Saturday, October 27
11 a.m. Intersquad Basketball Scrimmage
8 & 10 p.m. Horror Festival: “Dunwich Horror”

% Sunday, October 28
3 p.m. Art Exhibit Opening

= Monday, October 29
Johnson Gym
Love Auditorium
Stowe Galleries all day
Washington & Lee School
Martin Room of Law
10 a.m. Movies: “Antoine Watteau & Royal Rococo”
Morrison Room
10 p.m. Grievance Committee
Cunningham Room

= Tuesday, October 30
all day University of Pittsburgh
Martin Room
Graduate School of Business
7 p.m. Afternoon Discussion & Evening Worship
Church Chancel

= Wednesday, October 31
all day University of Virginia
Martin Room
Graduate School of Business
7:30 p.m. Major Drama Production: “A Midsummer Night's Dream”
Hodson Hall
8 p.m. Fine Film: “Ordet”
Love Auditorium

= Thursday, November 1
10 a.m. Movies: “Gericault - the Raft of the Medusa” and “Turner”
Morrison Room
Catholic Liturgy
Phi Hall
Major Drama Production: “A Midsummer Night's Dream”
Hodson Hall

... Humanities Grants (Continued from page 2)
first time that anyone has looked at them. “This is student-originated research. Most major government agencies support student studies and there have been no...

He said that the sciences have long been involved in this type of research. This usually included projects that employed students during the summer. He mentioned Professors Kimmel and Carroll as working in such programs. The N.C. Academy of the Sciences has an undergraduate...

The Davidson obtained $250 grants for each of two years. The money was used for research programs and to buy animals and equipment. Bevan cited the current Rocky River project as one of the best examples of a well-planned and implemented study. “The Babcock Foundation is paying $4500 for it. The work is already underway and will continue into the summer, when five students will be employed. It is an interdepartmental effort.” The area will be studied from many different angles, ranging from biological to political influences. There are several other foundations that support such endeavors. These include the Social Sciences Research Council and the American Council of Learned Societies. Both of these help humanities-oriented projects. Their grants come from local groups and the National Endowment of Arts. The National Endowment of Arts underwrites orchestras, operas, dramatic productions, and painting. Bevan summed up the difference between the two Endowments: “If you do it, it's art; if you write about it, it’s humanities.” Bevan hoped that more Davidson students will take advantage of these opportunities. “The odds are pretty good that if you apply for a grant you will get at least a percentage of what you want. Our area isn’t caught up in the competition you find in the east and among the sciences. These programs fit our school perfectly. In a word, this is a bonanza,” Bevan stated.

... Nixon (Continued from page 1)
honest light left in Washington,” said one student. “The only good in this affair is that Richardson resigned because of conscience, something we don’t see much of in Washington.” Few students...thought the release of the tapes would resolve the Watergate issue. “‘Nixon may have saved his own neck by giving up the tapes, but that’s all,’’ pointed out a junior. “‘As long as Nixon's in there, no one will really be tried,’’ was the pessimistic comment of Martin Eakes. Perhaps campus feeling about events in Washington was best summed up by the fervent words of a sophomore, who said, ‘‘Nixon can't keep doing this, he just can’t."

Blood Drive Nets 218 Pints
By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

The ROTC Red Cross Blood Drive conducted at the college last Wednesday, netted 218 pints of blood, exactly the number of units needed for Davidson to meet its quota in the first of the two blood campaigns. Blood insurance is therefore effective for every member of the college community—faculty, staff, and students—plus their immediate families and relatives.

Captain William DeVaughan, assistant professor of military science and organizer of the drive on campus, praised the “outstanding student attitude” at Davidson in helping the community achieve its quota. “Students here give a damn about their fellow man,” said DeVaughan. “Bob Norman, a senior, did an excellent job of publicity for the program, and as student organizer, was at the drive most of the day.”

“In addition, there were around 30 students who assisted in the project, and some 40 faculty and staff wives who helped the nurses and took care of the paperwork,” DeVaughan added.

Even though the college barely met its quota, the fact is that a Red Cross regulation stating that blood cannot be taken for more than six hours at a time necessitated the rejection of about twenty would-be donors. “The hours for the blood drive were posted as going from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. which we thought meant that the Red Cross would close the doors at 4 p.m. They closed them at 3:30 p.m. however, so that they wouldn't take any more blood past 4 p.m.,” DeVaughan pointed out.

The ROTC department plans to set the hours for the Spring blood drive from 11 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The Spring drive is tentatively scheduled for Monday, April 8, 1974.

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

Bacon (Out of Sight)
Gourmet's Delight (Salami & Mushrooms)
Mozzarella Cheese (None Better)
Sausage (Good)
White Mushroom (Tasty)
Ground Beef (Choice)
Salami (Best Italian)
Ham (Premium)
Green Bell Pepper (Freshly Diced)
Onion (Sweet)
Pepperoni (Finest Available)
Black Olive (Tasty Delight)
New Orleans Shrimp (Small & Succulent)
Smoked Oysters
Lisbon Anchovie (Choice Imported)
Half & Half (½ Cheese & ½ of one ingredient your choice)
Pizza Supreme (Sausage, Mushroom and Pepperoni)
King Of Pizza Special (Combination of Everything but Anchovie)
Beef & Onion (Right Combination)
Vegetarian Deluxe (Meatless)
Mushroom, Onion & Green Pepper
King's Choice (Sausage, Onion, Green Pepper)
Custom Combination (Your Heart's Desire)

For Each Ingredient add: Except Green Pepper or Onion:
Spaghetti Dinner with Salad
Small Spaghetti & Garlic Bread
SALAD (Fresh & Crisp) Choice of Dressing 1.59 95

Beer on draught: Domestic lager by the pitcher or stein
Famous imported beers from the world over—GERMANY, DENMARK, HOLLAND and many others.
Soft Drinks by the pitcher or glass

First Union National. DAVIDSON