MARY HOBBIE

Davidson Turkeys Comprise Foul Butterball Community

All right. It’s the end of the term. Exams are a week away. Nixon has astounded the nation once again.
People across the country are suggesting that he resign. There's a fuel crisis. A loaf of bread costs 43 cents.
Students under finals pressure are starting to suggest jumping out of third-floor windows with less and less laughter at the
suggestion. Pollution is taking over the world. My church (for the first time in four years) has forgotten to send
me a ‘care’ package. The Middle East cease-fire isn’t working. It’s time for a serious column. Let’s get the profundities
and/or trivia down on paper and dust off its thinking cap. It’s no use. I give up.

At times like this, strange ideas move into the brain and settle. Have you ever considered the popularity of the
word “turkey”? My aunt asked me if “turkey” has an obscene connotation. I don’t know why she asked me. I’m
always the last to know. According to Webster’s “New World Dictionary,” a turkey is a failure or a flop. Somehow
the word has taken on new meanings. A turkey is notoriously stupid. It’s the only bird which is so dumb
that it can drown in a rain shower. It raises its beak to catch water and forgets to lower it.
If the rain is hard enough, the turkey drowns.

The meaning of the word “turkey” is not merely one who is stupid, however. A turkey is the epitome of
clumsiness, egotism, immaturity, snobbishness, and hopelessness in general. A person can be “successful” and still be a turkey. Success is
not a deterrent. Davidson has more turkeys than a Butterball Convention. There is the turkey who sings at the top
of his voice at 3 a.m., and the turkey who yells at him to get him to shut up. There
are turkeys who ask how you did on a review, so they can show you the 98 that they made.
There are sports turkeys and political turkeys and professor turkeys and computer turkeys. In fact, there are so many turkeys
around here that it is a common bond. It is what makes us a community. There’s nobody here but us
turkeys. This is the great leveler of caste at Davidson. It doesn’t matter how smart you think you are, or
how dumb. It doesn’t matter how important you are, or how ignored. You are somebody’s idea of a prime quality
turkey. Davidson has finally found itself in the search for “community.”

Listen to con-

Investigation Reveals Political Immorality

By SAMUEL D. MALONEY
Professor of Religion

The Watergate investigation of our perverted political morality has presented the nation with a variety of insights. One of the
earliest confessions of ethical confusion came in the testimony last June of Jeb Magruder, campaign director of the Committee to
Re-Elect the President. Magruder explained how he had justified his own involvement in various illegal activities because of the illegal
tactics of anti-war demonstrators like the Rev. William Sloan Coffin Jr., Chaplain at Yale University under whom Magruder had studied
ethics. Magruder reasoned that if Bill Coffin broke the law, Nixon aides could also break the law. What Mr. Magruder
did not discern was the not-so-subtle distinction between Chaplain Coffin’s open civil disobedience to the law and Magruder’s own covert
violations in an attempt to re-elect the President.

Bill Coffin did openly demonstrate against the war in Vietnam; he did counsel students to burn their draft cards and
evade the draft. Believing the Vietnam War was both unlawful and immoral, he knowingly broke the law and willingly accepted
the consequences of his actions. He was indicted with others in 1968 on the criminal charge of conspiring to disrupt
the draft; his anti-war efforts were symbolic defiance of law. In working to end the Vietnam War and to change
certain laws that supported that war and the draft, Coffin demonstrated a basic respect for law. He was insisting that
thisnation live under just and righteous laws. A similar line of reasoning was used by Martin Luther King Jr. when
he marched without the necessary permit in Birmingham, Ala. in 1963. King did not object to the law requiring such
a permit. He did object to the enforcement of this law to perpetuate injustice. He turned to Thomas Aquinas’ argument
that a law out of harmony with the moral law of God is an unjust law; in the words (See
PERVERTED, page 7).

More than any other description you'll hear is “He (She) is a real turkey.” As you head down the last
week of the term, you’ll find yourself surrounded. Your fellow students will be classified in your mind on a one
to 12 gobble scale. As you get to the exam itself, you may even run into a few flaming 12
gobble super-nerdics. This (than which there is no worse) type is rare, but known to Davidson. Keep in mind, however,
as your temper shortens and your list of true turkeys lengthens, that it works both ways. Even while you classify
someone as a four gobbler, he is classifying you as a six gobbler. Remember before you call fowl - the
gobble you hear may be your own.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
The Davidsonian
November 9, 1973

THE GOOD OLD DAYS
JYA ‘Rubbish’ Criticized, Grims Rivaled By

To the Editor:
Although JYA-Marburg was worth far more to me both personally and intellectually than any year or combination of years I
will have spent at Davidson, I don’t really care whether JYA is maintained, because I don’t have much hope or
respect for Davidson, and because I'll be gone in half a year, anyway. Nevertheless, Alan Blakely’s last article on the
JYA program was such a marvelous exercise in pretension and ignorance that I feel compelled to attempt a rebuttal.

Because the JYA experience is incomprehensible to those who have never been overseas, Blakely is criticizing something he does not
understand. Blakely suggests a number of alternatives to JYA: joining the Navy, working in a coal mine, working on a
barge, traveling a summer in Europe, and attending another U.S. university. How many of these has Blakely undertaken? I know
that he does not understand the JYA experience; how many of his alternatives has he tried, or even both?

Another of Blakely’s alternatives is traveling in the summer to Europe. Again, travel and JYA are not mutually exclusive alternatives.
The essence of the JYA-Marburg experience, that which makes it invaluable, is the unavoidable informal contacts one makes with dozens
of students from most parts of the Federal Republic of Germany. Through these contacts, and in the classroom, one gets
a feel for the ideas, the intellectual tradition, and the lifestyle of young West Germans. The average U.S. tourist, who
does the church-castle-scenic view bit, invariably misses this.

Blakely complains about the expenses of JYA to the student and to the college. Actually, the student pays much less
on JYA than he would at Davidson. Room and board are considerably cheaper (and probably better) in Marburg and Montpellier
than at Davidson. JYA is much cheaper than a year at Davidson and a summer abroad, because JYA pays for
the flight to Europe. We Marburg returnees are just as upset over high costs as Blakely claims to be. His
judgement that cultural shock for a Southerner is as great in the American North or West as in Europe is
absurd and reflects his lack of experience. In other words, Blakely does not know what he is talking about. Blakely
clearly had no business writing the article he did. I am surprised THE DAVIDSONIAN prints such rubbish.

Hutch Brown '74
Davidson College

To the Editor:
Every bit as deserving of public attention as the need to impeach Richard Nixon is a growing phenomenon that, if
left unchecked, will soon outclass the Food run or even the Taco Bell chain, such Mexican delights as burritos, frijoles,
enchuritos, and, of course, tacos.
