Page Six April 27, 1973 Netters Finish 21-2, Enter SC Tournament By GORDON WIDENHOUSE Sports Editor

Favored by most to win the tournament title, the Davidson Wildcats, regular season champions this year, advance to the Southern
Conference Tournament this weekend. Finishing the season with convincing wins over conference foes Richmond, William and Mary, and The Citadel,
the Cats will face major challenges from Appalachian and Furman in the tourney.

Head Coach Jeff Frank thought that the team was “really up for the tournament and in good shape both physically
and mentally. We will be in the best shape for titles in both the number three singles and the number
one doubles,” explained Frank.

The Wildcats swept through their regular season matches with conference members without a mark against their record. They finished on
top of the standings with a 7-0 conference mark and 21-2 overall.

In the drawing for seeds held Wednesday night by the eight coaches, Davidson came out as well as could be
expected in seven of the nine divisions. David Weaver was placed second in the number one singles division. This turned
out to be very advantageous as the top players from both Appalachian and Furman are in the same semifinal bracket.
Weaver will not have to face either of them until the final round.

In the number two singles, Kevin Menton was seeded first. Once again, the Mountaineer and Paladin entries in this section
are paired in the same second-round bracket. The same holds true for Bill Allen in the number three singles division.
He was seeded first in the drawing.

In the fourth singles position, Maarten Ruys got the bid for second seed. The Furman netter in the section was
picked first, but he is in the same semifinal bracket with his Appalachian counterpart.

The number one doubles team of Weaver and Ruys was seeded first in the same semifinal bracket with a tough
team from William and Mary. Once again, though, the representatives from Furman and Appalachian found themselves in the same semis
slot. Furman got the first seed in the number two doubles position, while Menton and Allen captured the number two
seeding. However, they face the duo from Appalachian in the opening round.

What this means, according to Frank, is that “one of us (Appalachian or Davidson) will be hurt badly in the
first round since the loser will be knocked completely out of a division without scoring any points.”

Gary Bressler and Jim Dorsett got the second seed in the number three doubles slot. But their counterparts from William
and Mary, Appalachian, and Furman are all in the same half of the pairings, leaving this Davidson combination in great
position.

It is important to remember that points are awarded to a team for each victory by one of its entries.
The advantage that the Cats have is that in seven of the nine divisions, Furman and Appalachian meet before the
final round. Thus, they will be able to eliminate each other.

“Hopefully they (Furman and Appalachian) will split victories so that neither of them can amass very many team points going
into the finals,” Frank expressed.

By MARK CONNORS Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson tennis program, although very decent in its own right, relies on the talents of two of this year's
exchange students, Kevin Menton and Maarten Ruys. Both have played key roles in the success of the Wildcat netters.

Ruys, a native of the Netherlands, found out about Davidson through a contact with the late Coach Harry Fogleman. “An
old Davis Cup player got in contact with my parents and I ended up writing Coach Fogleman, eventually going through
the application procedures to Davidson,” commented Ruys.

Having been here for almost a year, Ruys has “thoroughly enjoyed” his stay and has found the changes quite interesting.
“I've been very pleased. It is a very nice country,” commented Ruys. However, the Hollander has found the treatment of
tennis to be quite different from that of his homeland.

“The game is played in classes, but you always play with someone better or just as good as yourself,” he
said. “In addition, there is not that much emphasis placed on conference championships and records as there is here.”of tennis
at Davidson to be quite unique. While being impressed with the fine facilities, Ruys is somewhat displeased with the importance
of tennis with respect to other sports at Davidson. He commented, "I think as compared to the two big sports,
tennis is probably not the best sport here but we don't get enough attention." Eyeing the conference meet with optimism,
Ruys, playing in the number four singles position, feels the team has a good chance of winning the tournament title.
Upon completion of this year, Ruys will return to the Netherlands and enter medical school.

The other half of the international duo, and very much an asset to the Wildcat tennis team, is Kevin Menton,
now playing in the second singles position and the number two doubles with Bill Allen. A native of Dublin, Ireland
and presently an exchange student from Trinity University of Dublin, Menton was also referred to Davidson by a contact of
Fogleman. Menton explained, "I had been interested in coming to the States and it was very fortunate that I was
able to have a scholarship arranged for me to come to the States and Davidson." Menton is also here solely
for this year and will return to Trinity to complete his studies in economics. "I have been especially impressed with
the friendly nature of Davidson, most especially with the guys on the tennis team," he said.

In evaluating the Davidson tennis program, Menton considered the facilities to be "first class" and the most impressive part of
the program here. "Tennis is just taken for granted here," Menton stressed. "People expect us to win the conference title.
With many of the schools in this area now giving several scholarships, it is making it more and more difficult
for a team like Davidson to succeed. I really think that in years to come Davidson tennis will be in
trouble and encounter difficulties unless some scholarships are started," he concluded. Also optimistic about the conference title, Menton will play
at the number two slot relying on his powerful forehand and steadiness.

Sailors Make Bid For Nationals
By JOHN McELVEEN
Staff Writer

Davidson sailors will participate in their last regatta of the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association's regular season this weekend. Last
weekend the team fought "puffy and shifty winds up to 30 knots" in the Ohio State Intersectional Regatta. There were
11 other schools of the Midwest College Sailing Association participating. Daryl Douglas commented on the fact that "strong winds made
it a real mess" when people tried to sail. The sailing continued throughout the first day until one boat's mast
broke. At that point, the regatta was discontinued. "We had sailed reasonably well," noted Douglas. "It was not our best
regatta, though." After the first races, Davidson was situated in sixth place. "The third through seventh place teams were only
separated by nine points," Douglas was quick to point out. "We had a good chance to move up, but we
never got the opportunity." Notre Dame eventually won the match.

Davidson will be given one more opportunity to go to the National Championships. Douglas will represent the Cats in the
SAISA’s single hand championships. "We've been sailing our Jets cat-rigged (with just the mainsail) this week during practice, since I
will be sailing this way at Clemson," said Douglas. The top two skippers in this meet will go to the
nationals. Last year Jimmy Hunter won this intercollegiate regatta, thus being able to go to the national finals.

CAMERAS PHOTO SUPPLIES DARK ROOM EQUIPMENT RECORDS TAPES SOUND EQUIPMENT Hi-Fi Camera Center Open Til 9:00 Every Night Lowest Prices
On All Beverages

TREMENDOUS CONCENTRATION
Maarten Ruys hits another return for Davidson. (Staff photo by Goodman)

ABORTION
An abortion can be arranged within 24 hours and you can return here the same day you leave! CALL TOLL
FREE (800) 523-4436 A Men’s Service Organization open 7 Days a week Cornelius, N. C.

NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING
"We Rent Tux"
Phone 892-8064

Hattie’s Grill
HAPPY HOUR
Tues. - Fri.
Mugs — 20¢ 7-8
Pitchers of 58 oz. — 1.00
Foosball Tournament every Wed. at 9.
Prize for a two-man team is a half case of beer
