Students Cry ‘Fooey’ Over King Kudzu

At story hour, eyes rolled back white in a trance, Numb Elroy scourges himself into mystic foresight with the twig
of a natty hawthorn bush.

“Chapter VII: Governance Hall. A throng of bearded men, in sad-colored garments and gray, steeple-crowned hats, intermixed with students, some
wearing hoods and others bareheaded, was assembled in front of a brick edifice, the door of which was heavily timbered
with oak, and studded with iron spikes. On both sides of the door, armored like the Swiss Guard, stood sullen
ROCS (once thought to be figments of the sand-blasted Bedouin imagination). Ronco rifles at the ready, they guarded the first
annual meeting of the Davoidson Governance Committee.

“The two-ton doors inched open to reveal a crystal chandelier shaped like Marshal Ney’s ribcage and a long mahogany table
with K.K. emblazoned in the center in green and with three extra leaves on the side. The throng filed into
the torch-lit room and along the sides of the meeting table.

“Then, the rattle of shivering brown leaves along the ground and the chairbush of the committee, King Kudzu himself, called
the meeting to disorder. The professors fingered their beards and thumped the crowns of their hats; the students spun the
propellers on their beanies. King Kudzu spread his vines in welcome and rattled off his opening speech.

“‘Students and Voters, welcome to date. We are here to decide upon Davoidson’s fate.’

“Whereupon, the leader of the students kowtowed seven times and spoke.

“‘Uh, th-thank you, King, sir. Thank you v-very much for, uh, for letting us, well, you know, for letting us
kind of well, sit in on the meeting and all. Anyhow.’

“And the students took their places on the left side of the table for the voting to begin. Kudzu pointed
a long leaf at H. Eadmans the White to begin the prefatory cheer.

“‘Kudos, Kudzu! Kudzu! Kudos, Kudzu!’

“Then, the business began.

“‘First order of business: Resolve that the dormitory drinking fountains should be closer to the lavatories, for those who drink
and run. Open to debate.’

“‘Well, uh,’ said the student leader, ‘I think...’

“‘Debate is now closed. Those in favor say “yea.”’

“The students Yea-ed.

“‘Those opposed say “nay.”’

“The professors nayed.

“‘The proposition is unanimously denied. Second order of business: Resolve that Chambers Building, Dana and Martin Science Buildings and the
Cunningham Fine Arts Center be remodeled as locker rooms for the Davoidson golf team. Students, please leave the premises.’

“‘What?’ quipped the student leader.

“‘Students please leave the premises. It is the decision of this committee that this is a matter grave beyond your
years.’

“‘Grave, huh? Beyond my years, huh? Well, let me tell you something. Your...your father’s moustache and...and take it in the
ear and...and fooey!’

“After which, all the student representatives fell to pummeling the floor and thrashing the air with their knickered legs and
flinging bitter tears in all directions.

“‘So you think we can’t handle our own affairs, eh?’ screeched the students. ‘Think we’re immature, huh?’

“And they converged, tongues stuck viciously out of their mouths, on the elders. But Kudzu waved a leaf and whistled
for his doughty defender, his caped cavalier.

“In a flash, he appeared, red cape flapping behind, blue tights rippling with muscles, a...

Europe ’72 Captures Dead’s Spirited Concert Performances

A REVIEW By WILL ROBERTSON Staff Writer

Most bands concentrate on their studio recordings and give concerts just to keep themselves in the public eye. Consequently, their
concerts are often rather dull and sloppy. The Grateful Dead, on the other hand, are at their best in concert.
A Dead concert is an orgiastic party that lasts anywhere from three to eight hours. One night, they played for
a joyous Fillmore East audience until sunrise. An outdoor Dead concert on a bright summer afternoon is the ultimate event
in American rock performance.

“Europe ’72, The Grateful Dead in Concert” is a three-record set, recorded in April and May last year, that captures
the energy of the group’s performances. The material is well chosen, and the album is skillfully mixed, with audience applause
cut out. This album continues in the direction of “Workingman’s Dead,” with a country flavor and a bouncy, fresh rhythm.
It is impossible to sit still while listening to this album.

While most of the songs are conventional Dead rock, drawn from recent albums, there are some surprises. In “One More
Saturday Night,” the Dead show that they can play pure rock ‘n roll as well as anyone. Bob Weir plays
the guitar like Chuck Berry, while Keith Godchaux bangs the piano energetically. Godchaux is outstanding throughout, and is largely responsible
for the album’s superiority over the previous live releases. Another surprise is an Elmore James blues tune, “Hurts Me Too.”
Godchaux plays good blues piano, and “Pigpen” McKernan’s harp work is outstanding.Elmore himself would be pleased with this version of
his blues classic. The highlight of the album is the Dead's rendition of “Morning Dew.” It builds slowly, with a
long instrumental introduction, and climaxes with a long guitar solo by Jerry Garcia that will send chills down your spine.
The quality of the album is equal to that of studio recordings. The vocals are spirited and pretty throughout, exceptional
for a concert recording. The instrumentals are tactful, with none of the sloppiness of many live performances. I realize that
this review sounds as if it came from the Dead's publicity man, but the album is outstanding—among the best concert
albums ever. It is a necessary addition for old Dead Heads, and a good starter album for the novice. It
even comes with a set of pictures that you can paste on the wall beside your portrait of David Cassidy.
Life is difficult, so you owe it to yourself to spend some time with the Grateful Dead. They make you
feel good.

Newspaper Cuts Detrimental

To the Editor:

Like his counterpart in the Nixon administration Casper Weinberger, C. David Cornell has inestimably molded the future of Davidson College
by denying DAVIDSONIAN subscriptions to the Board of Visitors in the interest of “economy.” No one can deny the importance
of the Board of Visitors in recruiting prospective students for Davidson. To successfully execute this job, the board needs to
stay well informed on campus issues and activities. It logically follows that the better informed the board is, the higher
the quality of incoming students. As things will stand after this year, however, the major communication this board will have
with Davidson doings will be through that milktoast propaganda pusher called the Update. I maintain that this publication is not
very representative of what a prospective student needs to or wants to know. In order for the board to perform
competently, it needs to receive both the Update and THE DAVIDSONIAN. If Dr. Cornell were truly interested in saving money
as opposed to keeping an occasionally controversial publication out of the hands of some distinguished alumni, he would cut appropriations
for sending the Update to students. True, we would not have something to laugh over once a month, but this
loss is not nearly as profound in future impact as his present plan.

Woody Connette '74
Davidson College

The Davidsonian - February 16, 1973 Page Five

red S gleaming on his chest: Pearl! I will speak of Pearl's rich and luxuriant beauty: a beauty that shone
with deep and vivid tints: a bright complexion, eyes possessing intensity both of depth and glow, and hair already of
a deep, glossy brown, and which, in after years, would be nearly akin to black. “There was fire in him
and throughout him; he seemed the unpremeditated offshoot of a passionate moment.

“But the students were ready. The leader whipped out Pearl's nemesis: chartreuse kryptonite, the only kryptonite able to plunge Pearl
into the throes of irregularity.

“And so, the students won their rights and took command of the Governance Committee and their own affairs. ‘First on
the agenda,’ said the student leader. ‘Resolve that the Slater Food Service should supply lollipops after every meal.’”

(Staff photo by Strand)

OPEN WIDE

Miles Ward rehearses for the play ‘The Clouds’.

Outside Perspective

By LEX VEAZEY

Duke Students Ticket Cars (Too)

Duke University employs 37 student traffic monitors to ticket cars from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. According
to Preston Stainback, Duke traffic coordinator, the monitoring system has proved to be a necessary one because “the police have
so much else to do.” Stainback added that the system, which has been in effect for over two and a
half years, has been fairly successful. According to the monitors, there is a good deal of public relations work to
do, too. Monitor Leslie Haines gets notes that give “a million excuses for illegal parking; usually it is a dire
emergency or ‘I lost my sticker.’ Guys have also tried to pick up girl monitors...to avoid a ticket,” she said.
Monitor Gary Libby admits that he was almost run over by an onlooker for ticketing a car. Monitor Ann Cocher
got to the heart of the public relations problem between student monitor and student when she explained that a lot
of people ask, “How do you dare ticket students?”

Tuition Raised at Mary Baldwin

Mary Baldwin's tuition fee will rise $150 for resident students and $495 for non-residents next year. “Just as in any
other institution in the country, expenses at Mary Baldwin have increased down the line,” explained Craven Williams, vice-president. “As in
the case of industry, we must pass along a portion of our cost increases to our customers.” Next year, the
total cost for resident students will be $3900 and $1975 for non-resident students.
