Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Twelve a, 1973 She Bavidsonian

SSS,

Up ‘n’ Coming

PS: Friday, November 30

10 a.m. Morrison Room

8 & 10 p.m. Film: Love Auditorium
“Billy Jack”

8 p.m. Hungry d: “Fried Chicken & Watermelon” Chambers Banquet Hall

Saturday, December 1

8 p.m. Hungry d: “Fried Chicken & Watermelon” Chambers Banquet Hall

Monday, December 3

All week Art Exhibit: Timothy Stowe Galleries Whitehead

10 a.m. Gallery Talk: Timothy Stowe Galleries

10 a.m. Lecture: Archie Albright Morrison Room

1 p.m. Babson College MBA Program Cunningham Room

3 p.m. Lecture: Archie Albright Morrison Room

10 p.m. Grievance Committee Martin Room

10 p.m. N.C. Pirg Local Cunningham Room

BS Board Meeting

Tuesday, December 4

10 a.m. Lecture: Archie Albright Morrison Room

2 p.m. Historical Films Series Morrison Room

4 p.m. N.C. Department of Cultural Resources Martin Room

7 p.m. Great Concepts Martin Room

7 p.m. Worship Service College Church

Wednesday, December 5

All day University of Virginia School of Law Martin Room

All day University of Georgia School of Law Cunningham Room

Thursday, December 6

All day Tulane Graduate School of Business Martin Room

Fine Film: “8½”

Exiled Graduate

(Continued from page 5)

exiles receive a fair share of attention.

6652 men were convicted of draft law violations and are now living with less-than-honorable discharges.

These men, some of whom served in Vietnam, receive no veterans’ benefits, and they also have considerable difficulty in finding
and keeping good jobs. All of these people need amnesty, and most of them are now living in the U.S.

Opposition to war, Vietnam in particular, can take many forms. I could not in good conscience have applied for CO
status. But my education enabled me to perceive the complexities of the situation and to choose an alternative before entering
the armed forces.

Deserters arrive at their decision in many ways. It is wrong to distinguish an “educated” form of resistance as more
valid than a less articulated one.

“Unconditional” means that no strings should be attached. The most commonly proposed “condition” is alternative service. A conditional amnesty is
no amnesty.

First, it probably would be aimed at draft dodgers, neglecting deserters and veterans.

Second, it would mean no real amnesty.

Third, almost no war resister would accept the implicit assumption that he must perform alternative service.

Information indicates that many American war exiles are taking out Canadian citizenship after the five-year waiting period, and that most
would remain in Canada to live even if amnesty were declared. My own feelings are mixed.

In any event, I am committed to a course of study here lasting from three to six more years. What
matters is the hundreds of thousands in America who need amnesty now. And Nixon speaks in terms of “the handful.”

If Vietnam did not make clear the corruption at the highest levels of the American government—the deliberate bombing of hospitals
is only one example—Watergate has made it undeniable. Whatever the mass media says, whatever the government claims, the truth is
evident.

Open End: College Policy Morrison Room

The students on the Advisory Committee will hopefully serve as liaisons between students and faculty, according to Butner. “This will
be a way for students to offer criticism, suggest courses, and ask questions.”

Julie Deck reported on work that she and other freshmen are doing to offer students more options on the meal
plan during their first year at Davidson.

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina

Phone 663-3030

Bacon (Out of Sight)
Gourmet's Delight (Salami & Mushrooms)
Mozzarella Cheese (None Better)
Sausage (Good)
White Mushroom (Tasty)
Ground Beef (Choice)
Salami (Best Italian)
Ham (Premium)
Green Bell Pepper (Freshly Diced)
Onion (Sweet)
Pepperoni (Finest Available)
Black Olive (Tasty Delight)
New Orleans Shrimp (Small & Succulent)
Smoked Oysters
Lisbon Anchovie (Choice Imported)
Half & Half (½ Cheese & ½ of one ingredient of your choice)
Pizza Supreme (Sausage, Mushroom, and Pepperoni)
King Of Pizza Special (Combination of Everything but Anchovie)
Beef & Onion (Right Combination)
Vegetarian Deluxe (Meatless)
Mushroom, Onion & Green Pepper
King's Choice (Sausage, Onion, Green Pepper)
Custom Combination (Your Heart's Desire)

For Each Ingredient add:
Except Green Pepper or Onion:

Spaghetti Dinner with Salad
Small Spaghetti & Garlic Bread

SALAD (Fresh & Crisp) Choice of Dressing

GERMANY, DENMARK, HOLLAND and many others.

Soft Drinks by the pitcher or glass
