Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR APRIL 6, 1973

Montreat Weekend

During the past week, elements of the student body, faculty, administration, trustees, and coaching staffs met in Montreat to discuss
the status of Davidson athletics. While no earth-shattering decisions were made, a good deal of input was provided for the
Trustee Athletic Committee to consider in making their recommendations to the whole Board of Trustees when they meet in May.
More sessions are being planned so that the Trustees will have a large body of information which they can use
to make changes in the Davidson athletic setup, if that is what they feel is needed.

We feel that changes are necessary. The soccer team needs a full-time permanent coach. While we feel that Chip Stone
will do a good job, the program needs someone who will be able to devote all his time and energy
to the team. However, far more important than this is the fact that like the rest of the budget, basketball
and football must be made to operate in the black. Together this year it is estimated that the two programs
will lose about two hundred thousand dollars. If Davidson is ever going to build a new Union and more housing
(and there are some pessimists here who feel that the college will never have enough money to do it), then
austerity must be the universal law. And the sports programs must conform to this law. It will be up to
the Trustees to create a system whereby this will happen. We wish them the best of luck in this regard,
for it will be a difficult job.

Just Like Magic

Shaw Smith isn’t the only one on this campus who seems to be able to make things disappear into thin
air. Since last December, the once-burning issue of the student activities car has submerged, out of sight, into the mire
of the SGA pseudo-bureaucratic swamp. The Administration has already said that it is receptive to the idea of a student
car, and is ready to help in the funding if the student government would define exactly how the car is
to be used and by whom.

We feel that the activities car concept is a valid one, that the student body, or various organizations within it,
could make good and much-needed use of it. The SGA has expressed similar feelings, yet they seem to be paying
only lip service. We would urge the Senate to approve the money for the car for rarely do the Administration
and the students agree so readily on an issue, especially one involving the amount of money that the proposed car
does. We feel the students and our representative bodies should seize upon these moments of administrative generosity. But the primary
concern here is the car itself. It is needed and widely supported. With this in mind, there is no reason
why parliamentary rhetoric should stand in the way of this necessary addition.

Blues Singer

Fred Deese is a fine example of the many talented people who can be found in unexpected places if one
merely takes the time to look. Just in the Union there is a blues singer and a magician that we
know of. A little digging would doubtlessly unearth more. We would like to see the Social Council or the Union
Board arrange for Fred Deese to give a Hungry i type performance for the students. There would not only be
an evening of good entertainment, but hopefully and more importantly, a better understanding and appreciation of the staff of the
college. Students must realize that quite a few of the people working here have seen several generations of students as
they passed through their four years at Davidson. The experience they have to offer is valuable to students who perhaps
often know too little of life except what they have read.

MILES WARD

Chronic Alcoholics Never Die, They Just Quietly Pass Away

We were always undertaking things God never intended us to and tonight was no different. It had been Monday all
day and we should have expected something rough but not this. Nothing like this, even on the most rugged Monday.
We had all known Swanson Gilly, then. He had grown up a young man in this town. Through fortune and
by his dead father, Gilly was blessed with all the money he could ever spend. Swanson had survived for years
on luck and through the care of his aging mother and those around him. Growing up a sensualist in Chatham
had been quite difficult. Swanson had managed, though, for many years to cast an approving glance in the direction of
the right women, to make wagers in the pool room which he always lost. But it kept him in the
good graces of those around him, and of the winners.

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Staff Writer

“A Raisin in the Sun,” Lorraine Hansberry's warm and moving drama, will be presented by Little Theatre of Charlotte today
and Saturday at 8:30 p.m. In the play, a shabby living room forms the background against which are depicted the
eternal conflicts between dreams, generations, sexes, and races. Lorraine Hansberry insists, however, that “A Raisin in the Sun” is not
“a Negro play,” but rather a play “about honest-to-God, believable many-sided people who happened to be Negroes.”

The opera “Martha” by Von Flotow, performed by the National Opera Company, con-

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Entertainment

Tonight at 58 years old, Swanson had finished his daily capacity for good liquor, had gone home, taken off all
his clothes and slept and sickened in his dining room. Tonight his ancient mother called us to carry him away.
We were told to take Swanson to the Dixie Hospital in Bristol. The other man drove. I satin the back
giving oxygen, a little heat now and then, wiping around his mouth and eyes. Swanson was an old man now,
his body saturated with a fleshy plastic which had replaced his strength. I waited there, crouched over him, watching his
vital signs. I whispered his name, listening for some reply of justification. A last hurrah or words of indignation or
bitterness that always come in stories and make them end well. Swanson kept his eyes shut, continued to be nauseous.

The tour continues its play at St. Leo's Theatre at Belmont Abbey College. One performance will be given at 8
p.m. on Wednesday, April 11. This is the same production that played at Davidson last term. The Queens College Film
Festival begins today with a screening of Henry V at 3 p.m. The festival will run until April 11 and
will feature "The Red Shoes" at 3 p.m. on April 7; "Mr. Hulot’s Holiday" at 7:30 p.m. on April 8;
"Ulysses" at 3 p.m., and "All's Quiet On The Western Front" at 7:30 p.m. on April 9. A more complete
listing of films will be made available on request. The series of films is open to the public free of
charge.

We asked after the Dixie Hospital at a few filling stations. The Dixie is one of those private hospitals down
South. We passed under a line of floodlights on both sides. There was a large old house ahead, and I
could sense about all Swanson had left for him. He was ill from 30 years of hard drinking, more damaging
than 50 years of hard work, but all the Dixie could do was let him die quietly. We pulled into
the back entrance. A man in dirty street clothes came out, opened the ambulance door and looked in.

“Come along, Bubbles. You come on in and we'll give you a big drink.”

We looked around at the others in the hospital. There were a hundred other men, old and alcoholic. They wore
bathrobes, were fed three times daily. The hospital had four nurses, no doctors. It was nine o'clock, feeding time at
the zoo. Every man lined up before a small window. He pushed an eight-ounce glass across, which a nurse filled
with a cheap sour mash whiskey. This, too, occurred thrice daily. We watched each man as he took his ration,
settled in the nearest corner and drank it slowly, guardedly like a threatened animal. Gilly stayed the first day, became
ill and was hospitalized. He returned, and soon grew adept at his new regimen.

For two years Swanson stayed here, the loneliness of each day growing to a point, then extinguished in doses with
all the other misfortunes of that place. On this April Fool's Day, appropriately enough, Swanson passed this life. His mother
has decided only to give all of Swanson's money to the nice church that did such nice funeralizing.

P. E. Registration Demanding, U.S. Deserters Belong At Home

To the Editor:

As evidenced by his remarks on P. E. participation in last term's DAVIDSONIAN, the editor apparently has not attempted to
follow his own advice of “going over to the gym and participating in the P. E. program there.” To be
more specific, trying to find Chip Stone in order to register for P. E. is more physically demanding than any
of the courses offered. Those who know him will assert his great value to the college, but a number of
students are becoming extremely frustrated by their failures to track down Chip Stone. I would suggest three possible alternatives to
the existing dilemma. The first and most feasible one is for Chip Stone to set definite hours when he will
be in his office; not just in the building, and not something as vague as “anytime after ten, but not
right at ten.” Secondly, it seems that it would be more efficient to have P. E. registration handled by the
registrar. Barring these two courses of action, the only remaining alternative is for the college to abolish all P. E.
requirements. That alternative should make officials take a serious look at the first two proposals. In the meantime, I will
be getting into shape by running back and forth to the gym trying to find Chip Stone.

Mike Fitzgerald, '76
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I am writing this letter in response to Mary Hobbie's article on POW's (March 9). I want to clarify my
position on both kinds of POW’s. Earlier in the year, I headed the campus campaign for POW's — buttons, bumper
stickers and all. My reason behind doing this was to inform our students about the great suffering of our fellow
Americans, who were almost ignored by their countrymen. However, I also support Mary's position on American deserters. They are also
being ignored. I didn't support the Vietnam War. And I still don’t; however, I could sympathize with some of the
POW’s positions. They were not necessarily supporters of the bombing or the war, but rather pawns of the American government.
Some had family commitments which no doubt prevented them from deserting. Others had personal convictions which prevented them from deserting.
My point is this— We should look at their motives behind what they did (both kinds of POW's), and not
so much their actions. Several POW's have since made anti-war statements. This proves that their motives were not all bad.
The U.S. deserters were also pawns of our government and not responsible for their actions. Do you see the similarity?
In conclusion, I would like to suggest that we bring all our POW's home where they belong. Only this way
can we have a country where two conflicting opinions can be tolerated. Also, if Miss Hobbie is truly interested in
starting a campaign for amnesty, I want to be the first to offer my assistance.

Ed Bowen ‘76
Davidson College
