Page T auc Zz _- be Davidsonian Altered | Registration System To Allow Scheduling Freedom

B. ANDY LAMAS
Mafi Warner LawTSe Tegestretce 17s “KE 222 ar ST Spe Oe 20 Te WSs preference CeOSs 62 eT ITS eT
Ss ac Mw eTet E eet “~~ eT i tee AP ser. .e ireter 4 ewer cheng fies tet mete
on tne registration site. The new progress ees ar. BOE. (0 UOT Ture wher $5. preference cards TOT. wee registrar's
office. Davidson College Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. ss pose mize. Uus mee lene a em popular courses ims SVSIET.
Courd prove + Students can register for all of the sections if each of the three subjects — Wass Ta
xXT izing mis chances of obtaining the courses which are desired. Burts advised students to fill out six or more
cards each, ref. Cheeser courses amt: LET or Uerr. The number of students participating in the process has been increasing
every quarter. Burts stated that this increase might be due to less or more.

By HARRIET HODGES
News Editor

An amendment to delete the provision for coed senators and to increase the number of off-campus Senate representatives was passed
in the Senate this week. Vince Rabil, who introduced the amendment, said that there was no longer any need to
include a provision for coed representation since there will be an entire dorm of coeds on campus next year. Rabil
said that off-campus representation needed to be increased due to the growing number of off-campus students. The amendment must go
to the student body as a referendum in order to take effect. Also passed was an amendment providing for deletion
of.

DAVIDSONIAN Staff
Managing Editors:
BOB HOWELL
BRUCE MALOY
MIKE TANNER

Sports Editors:
JIM SITTERSON
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Assistant Managing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD

Technical Assistant:
BILL ELLETT

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Associate Editors:
ALAN BAKAGOUNIS
TOM BRIDE
JOE EARLE
MILES WARD
GRAY WILSON

News Editor:
HARRIET HODGES

Assistant Sports Editors:
MARK CONNORS
BOB WETZEL

Contributors this week:
John McElveen and Charlie Si Putri

College during the school year. Address: Box 216, Davidson, NC. Published weekly by the students of Davidson College. Second-class postage
paid at Davidson, NC.

Contributing Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
BETSY ALEXANDER
MARY HOBBIE
HUGH MOORE
JIM PAULSEN
RICHARD ROMEYN

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKCOM
JOHN LEMMON
PAUL MITCHELL

Assistant Features Editor:
VAL VAN HORN

Advertising Manager:
RICH SMITH

Assistant Business Managers:
CLIFF KIRK
MIKE KRAMER
PHIL STIKES

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
ROBERT GATES

Photographers:
JIM JERNIGAN
BOB PETERSON
ROB STRAND

DAVIDSONIAN rate $5 in Lloyd. Frazier Marsh. Davidson. Postage paid at Davidson. Schedule returned during the first week in August.
Course schedules will be mailed to each student at his home address. If errors occur, students should contact the registrar.
There are several other information cards contained in the envelope.

Wilson

WILSON LEARNS THE ROPES
Duff Bruce shows Rich Wilson the administrative art.

Accepts Post As Spencer's Assistant

Richard V. Wilson, a Davidson College senior who served in 1972-73 as editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, has been named assistant
to the president of the college for 1973-74. President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said that he was pleased that.

Provision regulations on the Wildcat Handbook. The Senate discussed an amendment to allow rising juniors and seniors to run for
SGA President and Vice-President. According to SGA President.Bo Phillips, a number of schools are opening up the presidency to students
other than those in the rising senior class. The basic idea is to open up the potential for more involvement
in the student government. Senator Rick Damewood proposed an amendment specifying that the president and vice-president would be eligible for
re-election. Another amendment was proposed by Doug Sittler. Sittler suggested that candidates be allowed to run as teams for the
SGA presidency. "This opens up more options to the student body," Sittler said. Because Sittler introduced a motion to table
the amendments until the next meeting, the Senate took no action on the proposals. The Senate also discussed amendments to
the Bylaws concerning the Union Board and the Social Council. Also in Tuesday night's meeting, Blain Butner was nominated to
a position on the Governance Committee. Steve Dodd reported to the Senate from the Educational Planning Committee. According to Dodd,
the committee will make changes in the first part of the course catalog. Dodd also said that there will be
changes made in Spanish requirements. Several seniors were interested in the position and felt that any one of them could
have done a good job. "Rich's fine qualifications, including his experience on the student newspaper and the Governance Committee, should
make him a very capable successor to Duff Bruce, who has held the job during 1972-73," Spencer added. The president
complimented Bruce on his "excellent work." For several years Spencer has employed recently-graduated students to serve a year as his
assistant. "I feel very fortunate in having had a succession of outstanding assistants," he said. As assistant to the president,
Wilson will be responsible for assisting in relationships with trustees as well as other campus matters. "I think the office
of assistant to the president is the primary link to the president and other members of the college community," commented
Wilson. "I think it will give me a different view of the college administration than I've had in the past,"
said Wilson. "One of the special contributions a person in this job can make is serving as a bridge between
students and this office," Spencer added.

Grievance Committee Faces Student Apathy
By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Grievance Committee, designed to give the students a "sounding board" to air their gripes, has received few
student complaints. The committee was set up by the SGA to "attack the red tape that exists among the groups
of the Davidson College community," according to committee member Vince Rabil. "The lack of response could be an indication that
the students are satisfied with the way things are being run," Rabil said. The committee has been in existence for
only three weeks this year. It was designed last year by the SGA to help students with complaints concerning such
things as eating houses, residence halls, administration, faculty, and college services. "The Grievance Committee was organized as an added source
of input to the Student Government Association," Rabil said. Another possible reason for the lack of participation, according to Rabil,
is that people aren't interested in going to the trouble of complaining so close to the end of the year.
Suggestions and complaints registered thus far this year include the Davidson College catalog. It is felt by some students that
the catalog is unrealistic. An example cited by Rabil is the price of books for students. "According to the catalog,
the book fees run around $90. This sum can be equaled easily just by the books of the first year
Humanities," he remarked. The football program and various recruiting tactics were also mentioned as previous gripes. "In order for the
Grievance Committee to be of any value to the students, appreciation must increase. It is committee policy that all grievances
are kept confidential," Rabil said. Persons wishing to submit a problem could do so at the meetings or just give
them to a committee member when convenient. The Grievance Committee will meet every Monday night this term from 7 p.m.
to 7:30 p.m. in Cunningham meeting room of the student union. Students not able to attend the meeting could contact
one of the following members: Vince Rabil BIBS, David Craven BIBS, Rich Anderson Bao, Brant Bills C204, or Mark W.
Hlensky C209.
