Eight October 26, 1973 The Davidsonian

STEVE CANTERBURY

Abused, Lonely Cat Crouches On Gnarled Political Branch

As I walked upon crowded Pennsylvania Avenue late at night only four days ago, I saw a large tree swaying
unsteadily in the woeful Washington wind. The tree was not an exceptionally old tree; but it had been well nourished
and it was fat and overwhelming. The tree had three distinct branches. Two grew reasonably straight; but the third had
grown gnarled and twisted so that it literally choked the other two branches before it extended a great distance from
the main body of the tree.

At the very end of this crooked branch sat a white cat with a brown face. The white fur, though,
was stained with red-matted blotches of ill-treatment. It was a thin cat whose ribs were exposed on either side. The
eyes were empty and fearful. And there were many nicks on the poor cat’s head. The cat crouched low against
the branch so passers-by would not notice it. The cat was totally alone - it was obviously afraid.

I wished then that I could speak the language of the dumb animal. My wish was futile. But the cat
turned to me and cast a fleeting glance in my direction. In that hollow glance I understood all that I
would have asked. The cat said with its hungry eyes:

“American, who never sleeps and watches me even in the night, be damned. It is you who has forced me
onto this ugly, twisted limb.

“It is you who beat me; and I suffer beneath your accusing fists. It is you who cast my babies
into water and hoped to drown them.

“When I was a kitten, you played games with me. You petted me, you desired me. The great general among
you even stroked my soft skin's coat, and took delight in my purring.

“Yet, as I grew older you scorned me. You wrote within your newspapers great warnings about me. You labeled me
a ‘sly cat’ and claimed that I used my claws for evil purposes.

“And so I hid. But you, American, called me back. I came to the call only to be hurt more
by your evil actions.

“You tied cans to my tail and ...”

Commitment (Continued from page 7)

Could we want a more appalling example of malevolence wreaked by persons using commitments to a worthy cause as a
cover for the foulest of destructive deeds? Unfortunately, we do not have to resort to such extreme cases to show
how a person's “being” committed can cause grief and harm to others.

In our own academic bailiwick, the colleges of America, we have profuse examples of using commitment to cover improper action.
How many administrators, under the aegis of commitment to ‘updating’ the curriculum or improving the “image” of the college, have
brought about the dismissal of perfectly competent professors, professors often dedicated to a higher level of excellence than the administrator
could possibly hope to achieve? The sanctimonious allegation of commitment in these cases is nothing more than a cloak to
bring about the removal of a living embarrassment to them. Again we have here a case of “being” committed used
for impropriety. Fortunately, our professional organizations can see through the deceit more readily than the general public, or even than
the sham-conscious students, and rally to protect the potential victims.

Another frequent abuse of “being” committed in the academic world centers on the attempt to impose the aura of commitment
(commitment for commitment’s sake, or sham commitment) on colleagues who are already deeply committed to excellence in their field. We
have seen young sociology professors perform unlawful acts (e.g., smoking pot) with students to prove their dedication to some cause
and to show how they, and not the senior professors of the department, are really “with” the youth of America
in their quest for social understanding. We have seen an erstwhile dedicated French professor publicly rebuke colleagues as not being
committed because they did not speak French in the hall with students between classes. We have seen a Spanish professor
all but don a sombrero and tether a burro at the office door to impress the college administration that he
was more committed to matters Hispanic than a colleague who would have no part of such idiocy. We could cite
many more such attempts to impose sham commitment on colleagues. It is, indeed, one of the most sinned against aspects
of “being” committed in the academic world.

Now let us return to our point of departure for our tour of thoughts on “being” committed--the problem of taking
money for one’s commitment. Is this, accepting money, an approved function of true commitment or even of “being” committed? Does
the editor of the student newspaper merit remuneration “beyond the personal satisfaction he can obtain from doing the job”? Angela
and her lawyers received ample recompense from their supporters for their “commitment”; the shoddy college administrator receives much more than
ample monetary recompense for harassing the dedicated professor in pursuit of his “commitment.” Should the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN also
be placed in this admittedly select group? First, perhaps, the editor should come forth and reveal to his peers just
what the nature of his commitment is--be it commitment to student journalism itself or simply “being” committed to excellence in
journalism for the sake of being committed. Once this revelation is provided, perhaps his peers could make a wise decision
on his request.

... laughed at the clamor I made. You poured oil onto my fur and mockedme. You pulled out my tongue
and choked me with it. ‘So now I hide. I hide and strike out in the night. Beware, American. In
the night I move swiftly. My claws are sharp and I cut easily. Many will fall from their positions because
of my sharp, merciless cuts. ‘I hide because I fear. And I strike out for the same reason. I have
been hurt too often. And I constantly see someone lurking in the shadows made by the tree. They are out
to get me. But I see everyone too closely - and I never sleep.”

In reflection, I feel that the other branches must shake off the gnarled branch. If they do not, their life
will be cut short. But if they act quickly, they can shake the damnably paranoid cat from the whole tree
while he is out on a limb. (Staff photo by Sherril)

EVERYTHING'S COMING UP NARCISSUS

Mimi Cowan pauses to reflect.

‘Electra Glide In Blue’

Johnny Wintergreen (Robert Blake), the hero of ‘Electra Glide in Blue,’ is somebody's idea of superman. He lifts weights with
one hand while using the other to eat his breakfast of raw eggs. He can do “‘it” three times in
the morning, though “some people” can’t do “‘it” at all. A brilliant detective, he solves crimes which others wouldn't even
think to look for. His arch rival is Harve Poole (Mitchell Ryan), the one who cannot do “‘it” at all.
Harve nearly loses his grip on things when he finds out what a good stud Johnny is. Zipper (Billy “Green”
Bush) is Johnny's best pal. He reads comic books, acts creepy, and loses his mind. There is an old prospector
who has already become insane. He is Johnny's other friend, and he likes funny books too. The woman whom various
persons do “‘it” to is played by Jeanne Riley. She gets to do a big dance scene. Robert Boris wrote
the screenplay, and James William Guercio decided to film it. Aside from choosing such a screenplay and grossly misleading his
actors, Guercio is still a pretty bad director. He specializes in gradually shifting colors (produced in the lab), tight close-ups
of little movements, and amorphous masses slowly sliding across the screen, all of which cinema does not need and which
he executes with a singular lack of imaginative prowess.

By JOE MCMILLAN

‘Fantasia’

The current rage in animation is technical pretension. Ralph Bakshi used every animation technique (combination animation-real life, holographs, etc.) in
his two marvelous features ‘Fritz the Cat’ and ‘Heavy Traffic.’ Bakshi was hailed as a genius, and his first work,
‘Fritz the Cat,’ was declared a milestone in animation. Undoubtedly Bakshi is a genius, and ‘Fritz the Cat’ is impressive,
but he still doesn’t approach his predecessor Walt Disney. Forget the more recent Disney movies with their mindless plots and
simon-pure personalities (‘The Computer Wore Tennis Shoes’ and ‘The World's Greatest Athlete,’ for example) and remember that Disney’s forte is
animation. He and his associates in the 1930s laid the foundation for all the development of animation since that time.
A series of features flowed from the pens of these masters, from short cartoons (‘Steamboat Willie’) to full-length features (‘Snow
White and the Seven Dwarfs’). The culmination of all their efforts came in 1939 with the release of ‘Fantasia.’

‘Fantasia’ is not one of the all-time masterpieces of cinematic art, it is the masterpiece. It shows head and shoulders
above all other animated features made before or since. This is not a typical movie. It has no plot as
such. ‘Fantasia’ is just that, a series of fantasy episodes strung together in no logical sequence. It is a cascade
of classical music and brilliant images that have to be seen to be believed. The movie is the visualization of
ideas involved in classical compositions. Bach’s ‘pure music’ Toccata and Fugue in D Minor, played, as are all these works,
by the American Symphony under the direction of Leopold Stokowski, is visualized as a series of abstract images heaving and
swirling before your eyes. It is an awe-inspiring experience.

Next, the orchestra plays Tchaikovsky's ‘Nutcracker Suite.’ While this music is performed, the orchestral dances are done by flowers, mushrooms,
fairies, fish, etc. The Arabian Dance sequence is especially beautiful. Mickey Mouse is the star of the next sequence as
Dukas’ Sorcerer's Apprentice. A proper note of power and fantasy is achieved especially by the realistic swirling of the flood
waters as they engulf the apprentice. Mussorgsky's wild dances of death are perfectly complemented by Disney's images of a monstrous
Devil devouring the whirling souls of the dead on a wildly stormy night. Ponchielli’s ‘Dance of the Hours,’ while very
imaginative and funny, was overlong. Schubert's ‘Ave Maria,’ while visually beautiful, was too trite: it seemed as if Disney wanted
to wrap the movie up quickly. Perhaps the weakest portion of the movie is the sequence involving Stravinsky's ‘Rite of
Spring.’ As always throughout the movie, the images are strikingly beautiful, but Disney's interpretation of Stravinsky’s work as a story
of the beginning of the earth is far-fetched at best.

It has been remarked that you should see ‘Fantasia’ while stoned. That might not be a bad idea, but have
someone straight with you to help bring you down, for ‘Fantasia’ is a mind-blowing experience. Take someone with you when
you see it; such a beautiful movie has to be shared. Perhaps the best one could say about ‘Fantasia’ is
that once you see it, you will never forget it.

By PETER CELENTANO
