Two January 1, 1984 The Davidsonian

Spencer Reveals Plan For All-Girl College

Starting with next year’s entering class, Davidson will accept only women as the first step in a move to make
the college, founded by hearty Scotch Presbyterians in 1873, completely female. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., with his smiling
wife Ava standing beside him, made the announcement Thursday afternoon to a stunned audience of faculty and student bigwigs. He
said men would no longer attend Davidson after this year’s freshman class graduates in 1977.

In explaining the decision, Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White said, “The number applying this year is way up, and
it will be about the hardest that it ever was to get into Davidson. I was afraid that the toughness
of the competition for places in next year’s freshman class would lower the number of applications in following years, so
I convinced the administration and the trustees that the only way to avoid a fall in applications was to refuse
to accept men.”

White laid the blame of admissions being “way up” on “Davidson’s Christian heritage which is irresistible to the prospective student
and on student morale which is higher than I have ever seen it.”

Director of Student Housing Mrs. Peter Nicholls (more affectionately known as “Scotty the Body”) said another reason for the phase-out
of male enrollment was that the college could not afford to build new dorms for a previously projected student body
of 1500 by 1980. “We decided to stop kidding ourselves,” said Nicholls, “and keep the enrollment at 1000 by kicking
out the boys. They've had their chance for 136 years so it’s about time the girls had one. Besides, the
boys have been nothing but a pain in the proverbial ‘you-know-where’, what with their building lofts and forcing me to
work at least two hours a day when my time could be used more wisely.”

Strenuous objection to the new plan was made by Professor of Religion Samuel (“Shouting Sam”) D. Maloney who said, “These
old women have complicated my pre-ministerial program ever since they got here. It's hard for them to be ordained and
almost impossible for them to find a pulpit. Besides, although they can type, they can’t fly a plane or run
a computer, the prerequisites of being a modern Renaissance Man.”

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, known as one of higher education’s leading innovators, replied, “Oh my gosh
Sam! Don’t you realize that all-women's colleges are the coming thing? I want Davidson to be right in the forefront
of this movement; that’s where the action is!”

Chiming in as is his habit, Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell said, “What this country needs
is a good $6000 finishing school, and we're going to provide it.”

(See SPENCER, Page 7)

(Staff photo by Avedon)

POOLING HIS RESOURCES

Deeply concerned over John Young’s excommunication, coming coed locker rooms and dorms, and increased canine fornication, College President Samuel R.
Spencer, Jr. is hard at work in his office. “I always shoot out of the side of my mouth,” Spencer
said.

Davidson Confronts ‘Perverted’ Dogs

According to Director of Physical Plant G. “Rover” Mutz, Davidson College is facing a dog problem for which it has
devised a biting solution. Mutz claimed that “those perverted Davidson dogs” flaunt their sexual prowess and perform illicit and gross
acts in public. When asked what dogs he was referring to, Mutz said, “I’m not referring to the Watt dogs
or the Little dogs, but dogs in general.” Mutz stated that a Davidson Dog Patrol has been...

Executive Editor: MIKE TANNER
Managing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, MARK DEATON, CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Sports Editors: JIM SITTERSON, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Associate Editors: ALAN BLAKLEY, DOUG BROWN, TOM BRUCE, STEVE CANTERBURY, TODD EADES, JOE EARLE, MARY HOBBIE, RICHARD ROMEYN, MILES WARD
Contributing Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, PHILIP BISHOP, DAVID HANIG, ANDY LAMAS, HUGH MOORE, JIM PAULSEN
Technical Assistant: BILL ELLETT
Asst. Managing Editors: LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, LARRY MIMMS, MARK WILENSKY
Photography Editor: PETE GOODMAN
News Editor: HARRIETT HODGES
Assistant Features Editors: ALAN FORD, FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Assistant Sports Editor: MARK CONNORS
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKCOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Asst. Business Managers: PHIL STYKES, DAVID TRADER
Typists: CHOLLET STILL, PATTI SHANKWEILER
Contributors this week: Alonzo Cohen, Albert DeSalvo, Ronald Zeigler, Lt. William Calley, Judy Agnew, William Faulkner, Layton Ford, Gerald Ford,
Alan Ford, Jesus Christ, Arnold Ziffle, Dana F. Skillin, Yogi and Boo Boo, Bruce Wayne, Oral Roberts, Vincent Furnier, Larry
Csonka, Lassie, 3,000 salivating...harelipped pygmies, Jim Olsen and Jerry Mathers as the Beaver. DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Subscription rate:
$5.00. Yearly sub- scription rate: $5.00.

established to pick up the offending stray animals and end the dog-eat-dog routine. When asked his opinion of the new
measures, a member of Mutz’s staff said candidly, “Hell, I don't really mind it, except when the black ones and
the white ones get it on together. There are already too many mulattos in the world.” An interested professor who
chose to remain anonymous added that open petting of dogs has increased tremendously in the past few months. He postulated
that the loose morality of the dogs has taken its toll on the students. “I’m very firm in my belief
of this,” he said. When asked his opinion concerning the problem, DAVIDSONIAN Editor Alec Hoon commented, “This dogshit has got
to stop.” Editor Hoon mentioned several points. “For example, with 29 dogs crapping twice a day, that’s two tons at
the end of a year, geez! And even worse,” Hoon said, “there’s no easy solution. However, I’ve got the answer.”

Cornell Builds Case For Wife's Trophies

Busy hammers were sounding Monday as carpenters put the final touches to Davidson’s newest trophy case. Located on the first
floor of Chambers, the case will hold prizes and awards for the college debate team. Vice-President for Finance and Development
C. David Cornell, who ordered the case, exclaimed, “Davidson has needed things like this for a long time.” “I told
Sam,” he continued, “that if we were to keep up, Davidson needed trophy cases and paved driveways. We now have
both.” Reaction across campus was varied, however. Debate Team coach, and wife of Cornell, Jean (“The Machine”) Cornell said, “Don’t
you just love Dave's little ises?” Dean of Students Will compared the case to “a piece of crap,” commenting that
“Davidson just never seemed to me to be the kind of place that wears its medals on its sleeve.” Cornell
disclosed plans to do more work of this sort. “What I have in mind,” he said, “is a wax museum.
Sort of a ‘down memory lane’ approach to interest our alumni. Just imagine the thrill,” he said, “of seeing life-size
full-color figures of famous Davidsonians, Homer Smith, What-a-Martha, Dean Rusk. The possibilities are spectacular.” Cornell’s staff was apparently unaware of
these plans, however. When questioned about the wax museum, Don Winston asked, “What has that fat-head done now?” Nancy Rhyne
said, “I like Mr. Cornell.” While admitting that his plan was probably a controversial one, Cornell claimed to be, “ready
for heh-heh, any debate that might result. After all, I'm a master debater.” Faculty reaction to the Cornell plans was
favorable. Professor of History Frontis Johnston remarked, “I’m pleased to see the Development people acting constructively. For a long time
I think we ought to put Cornell in wax,” another remarked.

“Whenever a doggie craps on the sidewalk, someone rushes out with some hot gravy train and pours it on the
turd. Another doggie invariably comes along and gobbles it up. But obviously, this involves a high degree of recycling.” College
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. maintained however, that his reward approach is preferable. “I would hide a ticket to a
Davidson athletic event in some pile each morning. The result is almost certain. Students, faculty, and administration would come together
in this great search in the shit.” The college development office is reportedly working on a shit-stomping diamond-finder attachment for
the shoe. According to Mutz, the Dog Patrol will begin activity next week, castrating any unleashed canines. Professor of Biology
Donald Kimmel felt that if the Patrol were to perform its dirty work in open sessions, it would be an
invaluable learning experience for all in attendance. “Beginning in the spring, the Biology department will offer extended studies credit in
introducing canine nut-cutting for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. Mutz concluded by saying that violating female dogs would also be
punished. Any bitch picked up by the Dog Patrol will henceforth wear a red “A” around its neck. “That's the
school color, you know.” It is a patently assumption that everything one reads issue is a good case in point.
