(Staff photo by Avedon)

THE HODGE GETS NAILED

Sophomore wrestling star Pete Hotchkiss is about to be pinned by the cutest grappler on the mats, none other than Davidson junior Betsy Norman. Hotchkiss commented that it was the most enjoyable beating he had ever received. That is a real tribute to Ms. Norman, as he has been clobbered many times. With studs like him, it is no wonder the wrestlers are having their problems.

Cagers Sell Donuts For New Uniforms

Basketball is taking on a new look this year. Due to dissatisfaction on the part of team members and finally an Dunn, a plan was implemented to supply the Wildcats with new uniforms. The cut and couture of these uniforms is to be decided by head play designer and color coordinator Larry Horowitz, just back from “the coast.” Horowitz designed the Staten Island Fairies’ bared-look this past year. In hopes of combining freedom of movement with the appeal of the Fairies’ plunging (and often distracting) neckline, Horowitz has chosen a David Bowie motif. His caped prancers will sport a thigh-long diversionary cape (opening up a new dimension in the defensive movement) and a peek-a-boo jock.

Various ideas concerning fundraising have been considered and Mike Sorrentino, head of the Fund Campaign, has been left with the final decision. “I plan an extensive doughnut sale,” commented the astute New York business financier. “We have an order with Krispy Kreme for 1,056,000 glazed doughnuts to kick off our campaign,” stated Sorrentino. When he performed a few simple mathematical calculations, Pete Kyle informed Sorrentino that, considering the student body size, this might be overly ambitious. “Yes,” he explained. Sorrentino went on to say, “We foresee no problems in convincing the student body to cough up.” 

“Probably the most effective units in our campaign are our salesmen,” Sorrentino added. Heading up the sales force is T. J. Pecorak, with Sheldon “Boom-Boom” Parker as backup man. Pecorak’s qualifications for the job are unquestionable: at 6’11” and 300 lbs., his sales pitch can be, at times (usually in alleys and deserted hallways), quite convincing. His favorite target is some skinny freshman under 5’2”. Pecorak's usual approach, he says, is simple and to the point: “Hey buddy, how would you like to buy 300 doughnuts?”

Sorrentino has not restricted the campaign entirely to the sale of doughnuts, however. Other options are half-time shows at the Coliseum and bake-sales. The entertainment effort will be led by John J. Falconi, one of New York City’s most sought-after socialites. “JJ” is taking suggestions as to acceptable and socially redeeming forms of entertainment, such as a “pretty legs” contest in which both teams would have a chance to compete for the female audience. The team foresees no problems in obtaining sufficient funds for their uniforms, but should their campaign fail, Sorrentino stated, “I have a fundamental belief that Santa will pull through.”

January 1, 1984

Seven College T. To Construct $6 Million Fieldhouse

In a surprise press conference held yesterday at the 19th hole of the Charlotte Country Club, Thomas Cartmill, the new athletic director-designate, teed off on a startling fund drive for a new $6 million athletic complex. Cartmill stated that the building would be four stories high and cover nearly two acres of land. It will include a complete indoor field house which will be the new home of the “Parful” Wildcat basketball team. Cartmill stated, “In addition to the field house, there will be championship facilities for both swimming and wrestling. Each of these sports will have separate facilities for practice and competition.”

One of the most desirable features will be the 12 indoor tennis courts which will be available only for varsity action and the personal use of high-level administrative officials of the college. These courts are of the latest design and will be of such quality that there is rumor of a major professional tennis championship being held here after the complex is completed. The courts will be grass. The indoor track facilities are supposed to be of the finest quality in the country. Sterling Martin was excited about the construction, calling it one of the finest moves in Davidson athletic history. Along with the practice football field, many other facilities will be located on the four new gymnasium sections, one exclusively for the varsity basketball team. All other practice facilities will be available for student use.

The ground floor will house athletic offices and locker room facilities. All athletic needs will be covered at this position. There will be a dining facility on this level. The upper two levels will be the new basketball stadium. It will have a seating capacity of 17,500 and will also be available as an ice rink for future hockey matches. The basketball complex will...be flanked on one side by the new swimming and wrestling facilities. The swim team will have an Olympic-size pool and a separate dining area. The wrestling team will have the latest equipment for their sport. Seating capacity at each of these arenas will be 5000. On the other side of the basketball court will be the new tennis courts. The center court will be completely separated from the other courts and will have a grandstand to seat up to 7500. Encircling this part of the facility will be the indoor track.

Cartmill stated that he felt it was time for the administration of this institution to “get on the stick as far as athletics are concerned.” He insisted that the funding of this project would be the top priority of the college for the next several years. He outlined the following three plank proposals as to how the facility will be funded:

I. Student tuition will be increased on a pro rata basis according to how much one participates in the intercollegiate and intramural athletics. Those who participate the least will pay only an extra $2500 per year. The maximum increase per student will be $5000.

II. The amount of money that the Wildcat Club can raise toward this project will be quadrupled by funds from the Living Endowment. A grant from the Duke Endowment will match the amount.

III. The final area will be a rescheduling of the football and basketball programs so that the gridders will play Ohio State, Southern Cal, and Notre Dame, all at the homes of the opposing schools, and the Charlotte Invitational Tournament in Peoria, Ill. will be increased to eight teams in a double-elimination holiday festival. Teams which have agreed to compete during the 1975-76 season include UCLA, N.C. State, North Carolina, and Soaring Rocky Mountain Community College. Tickets for the festival will be priced at $15 per person for the first three preliminary rounds. The tournament will become a single-elimination affair after the first three rounds when there will be four teams remaining in competition. Tickets for the final two days, which will include the championship and consolation games on the final day of the five-day event, will be sold for $12 per person.

Cartmill said he hoped to make $600,000 on the basketball tournament and another $50,000 from the grid clashes. Sandy Carnegie, the director of the Wildcat Club, indicated that he thought they would be able to raise $250,000 which, when quadrupled by the college and doubled by the Duke Endowment, would add up to $2 million. Thus, Cartmill expects to have the complex paid for in five years or so. Construction is set to begin as soon as the architect designs a suitable dome for the facility. Buckminster Fuller, famed architect, will make a special trip in the spring to consult with architects on the possibility of a geodesic dome.

Fund Bails Out Sinking Shipmen

In the weeks of the effort to encourage and strengthen minor sports here at Davidson, the Wildcat Fund, in conjunction with the Athletic Department, has allocated an additional $150,000 to the sailing team. Having operated in previous years on a G-string, Commodore Daryl Douglas and other team members are toying with various new options now open to them. With the goal of better and more competitive racing (and winning) in mind, two proposals proffered by the members are now under serious consideration.

The need for a “crash boat” in two Coach Walker’s Boston Whaler during the Fall Eliminations last year (see story, Issue #3). “We are concerned with our image as a square-shooting team,” commented Douglas. “We are going to buy a destroyer.” In an aggressive attempt to improve the Cat's often lagging record, a destroyer has been requested to serve as committee and crash boat in future regattas. When asked how the destroyer might figure in upcoming races, Douglas commented, “With our talent and depth we could really blow the opposition off the lake.” Although difficult to maneuver in Lake Norman, tactics would be planned to run the destroyer closely in front of the opposing teams’ boats. “We could really suck them up,” Douglas explained. (See LIFESAVER, Page 8)

Shortage Crisis (Continued from page 6)

Upon viewing the crises, both the one the students face and the one the nation faces with certainly is not for energy! The new policy does, in fact, appear to be one of the first moves by the college to prepare the hard life after graduation. The policy sets the college near the top of the nation’s improvement of co-education, higher participation in physical education activities, and the instruction of the student body about helping one another learn the basic fundamentals of life.