The Vol. LXII, No. Sixteen Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Aavidannttan Published Weekly By Davidson College Students February 16, 1973

SLC, SPE’s Discuss Pledging Problems
By MIKE TANNER Managing Editor

The Student Life Committee (SLC) last week addressed itself in a letter to the members of the Sigma Phi Epsilon (SPE) Fraternity, emphasizing the importance of their support of and contribution to the social system as it now exists on Patterson Court. It also stressed the hope that in the future the recently strained lines of communication with the SPE’s could be mended.

The trouble with the SPE’s started earlier this year over the question of freshman rushing and pledging. At that time, opinion on the court maintained that they had violated the spirit of the laws set down by the trustees governing social organizations on campus by giving freshmen too much premature encouragement, perhaps depriving them of the full opportunities of self-selection.

According to Dean of Students Will Terry, chairman of the SLC, what most concerned the SLC were the effects of the SPE actions and the inability of the Patterson Court Council (PCC) to deal with them. In regard to the communication problem, upon mutual suggestion by the SPE and the SLC, a new social agency, the Council of Social Organizations, will be established to mediate between the houses on the court and recognized off-campus houses.

“We want the SPE’s to cooperate and we want to give them the chance but, how they act in the future in regard to the existing guidelines and the operation of the new organization will determine what we can expect of them,” Terry said.

The new Council of Social Organizations will be a step toward increased coordination between the SPE’s and the court, but at present, it is doubtful how much the off-campus group can be integrated into the court in the future. “Each year the dean's office negotiates new contracts with each social group for its house and I just can't say whether it would be possible to assign a house to a group that doesn't cooperate with the trustee's resolution on self-selection; in other words, the future situation depends on how they act,” Terry said.

Terry spoke more specifically about the SPE’s saying that no one was upset with them for actually rushing freshmen, but rather for their steps toward pledging. “Rushing is fine,” he said, “we want the freshmen to taste social life as much as possible but, we also want them to be able to see the entire court.”

From the point of view of the SPE's, the letter from the SLC was a ‘pleasant surprise’ in the words of President Ed Johnston. Johnston feels that the conciliatory tone of the response is significant in terms of the communications improvements that it implies.

“We never intended to anger anyone with our activities and intend to work within the new council,” he said. Johnston went on to say that much of the initial problem lay in the fact that the SPE’s were, according to him, never fully briefed on the rules and procedures of rushing and pledging. “We all think that much of the fault is that of the PCC for having set a precedent and done nothing last year when we did the same thing, except with fewer freshmen,” he continued. “Our actions were based on the fact that we see ourselves as an alternative to the system on Patterson Court and wanted to make known what we have to offer.”

Johnston said. SPE member Bruce Moore added to this saying that whereas the fraternity would now cooperate more readily with Patterson Court, it would also work within the Council of Social Organizations to make changes to the

Where It’s At:
Friday, February 16
- 7:30 p.m. “The Clouds” Morrison Room
- 8 p.m. Dawson Boys & Love Auditorium
- 10:30 p.m. S

Saturday, February 17
- 2 p.m. Casino Party Chambers Banquet Hall
- 8 p.m. Concert: John Hartford and Earl Scruggs Love Auditorium
- 11 p.m. Rob Miller Rathskeller
- 2 a.m. Dessert at Slater's Richards House
- “Son of Movie Orgy”existing social rules where freshmen might benefit. Staff photo by Strand

MY CALENDAR'S NOT GOOD ENOUGH, HUH

The FEC relented before heavy student pressure.

FEC Approves New Calendar With 4-6 Split Winter Term

By HUGH MOORE
Contributing Editor

By a large majority, the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) has approved a new calendar for the academic year 1973-74. It is very similar to the calendar presented by the student Senate as an alternative to the one proposed by Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan and initially approved by the FEC and the Educational Policy Committee. Virtually all of the student proposals, unfavorable reactions to the Bevan calendar, were acted on.

The new calendar includes a split winter term which relieves what could have been back-to-back, vacation-free, winter and spring terms under the Bevan calendar. Also, there will be no classes on January 2 and no Saturday classes. Classes will begin September 5 and end May 10. Spring examinations will end May 16, while Commencement will take place May 19. Supposedly, this will make it easier for students to secure and keep their summer jobs by giving them a vacation similar to those at other schools.

Expressions of student dissatisfaction with the Bevan calendar played a large role in the FEC decision. “If it weren't for student dissent,” Bevan said, “the calendar wouldn't have been changed.” According to Bevan, the most influential student action was the lobbying with the FEC members. Blain Butner, chairman of the Educational Affairs Committee in the student Senate and a leader in the move for a new calendar, agreed. “The decision can be attributed to genuine student interest and consideration by faculty too,” he said.

Just prior to the FEC decision, the Senate sent a letter encouraging a change of the calendar to each faculty member and to each student. SGA President Bo Phillips saw the decision as a victory for the Senate. “It's a slap in the face to those candidates who campaigned on a platform of Senate inaction in the student elections,” he said. “Students will remember that the Senate got together, acted, and beat the administration on an issue.” Butner commented, “Nobody can charge that the Senate is impotent anymore.”

Looking at the decision as a whole, Phillips observed that it accomplished two things. “It set a precedent for student activism and it bolstered the image of the Senate,” he said. Praise for the new calendar also came from two faculty members, Professor of Spanish Lois A. Kemp and Professor of Chemistry Felix A. Carroll. “From my point of view, it's more satisfactory than the calendar which scheduled two full terms after Christmas,” Kemp said. “I'm delighted that Saturday classes were (See CALENDAR, Page 12)

Gwynn, Keith Named To Board Of Trustees

Two Charlotteans have been added to Davidson College's Board of Trustees, and four men have left the board upon the expiration of their terms. Several trustee committees, which are responsible for recommending policies and action to the entire board, have been reconstituted.

New board members are Price H. Gwynn III, vice president of Package Products Co., and Graeme Keith, executive vice president of First Union National Bank. Retiring from the board are Mayor John Belk of Charlotte, manufacturer John C. Bernhardt of Lenoir, Morganton physician Edward W. Phifer Jr., and the Rev. Robert A. Wilson of Grover.

“We are deeply grateful to these four men for their years of dedicated service in guiding the policies of Davidson College,” said Warner Hall of Charlotte, chairman of the board. “All of these have had vital roles in the important decisions that our board has made in recent years.”

Both incoming and outgoing trustees are representatives of presbyteries in North Carolina. They serve a maximum of three four-year terms each. New chairmen of trustee committees are Dr. Hugh Verner of Charlotte, Athletics and Physical Education; William A. White Jr., Charlotte real estate developer, Development; Hugh N. Cannon, Raleigh attorney, Resolutions. The trustees now include 42 members: twenty-six of whom are elected by presbyteries in North Carolina and Florida, eight by the college's alumni association, and eight by the board itself (at least four of whom must be alumni).