The Davidsonian
October 26, 1973

Plunkett Denounces Davidson Norms
By TOM BRUCE
Associate Editor

Professor Hugh Plunkett will not be teaching at Davidson next year. At the beginning of this academic year, he received word from Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan that his contract would not be renewed.

“I've been here under rather specialized circumstances, anyway,” Plunkett told THE DAVIDSONIAN in an interview Tuesday. “I was hired as sort of a wild card with no real attachment to any of the standard departments at Davidson. I teach lower-level sociology courses, but my other courses are listed under South Asian studies.

“We never really have developed the integration that we needed with other departments. Of course, many philosophy, economics, religion, and art, did cross-list our courses and their faculty teach in the South Asian program.”

Plunkett said that some faculty members were not enthusiastic about the program, however. Even more critically, some students were hesitant to take the untried South Asian offerings.

“Students at Davidson seem very suspicious of the unknown,” Plunkett stated. “They tend to be grade-conscious,” he added. “They tend to be more concerned about attracting favorable attention from graduate schools.

“They are not geared for experiences that do not conform to the Davidson norms. The Davidson norm, in this case, consists of sitting in a classroom absorbing the knowledge that the professor thinks you need to learn.”

Speculating that learning Davidson-style might not be the most efficient or economical way to get an education, Plunkett said that he had been to other schools where independent research was stressed more successfully.

“We wanted people not only to know about South Asia, but also to feel about it. In this respect, the Davidson culture was just not receptive. It may be that students have forgotten how to carry on a dynamic discussion, or maybe they just want to be private."

“The faculty here is really good and they work really hard. The students work terribly hard; that one’s studies will be a grind is part of the cultural expectation at Davidson."

Davidson is, in Plunkett's view, a poor place to be an outsider. “There is an elaborate pecking order at Davidson, part of it based on the same criteria we find in primitive societies.

“It is helpful to have graduated from Davidson, or to have relatives who taught here. There is a large number of professors who are members of inbred clans that cross back and forth over the years.”

Sixty percent of the faculty at Davidson has tenure as opposed to 48 percent nationwide, this makes for a relatively conservative academic situation.”

Plunkett said that the debate over religious restrictions on tenure had depressed him last spring. “The implicit question in this debate is ‘Are we professionals or are we employees?’ I think we got a pretty definite answer from the trustees: we're employees.

“If we are employees, we ought to act like it and drop the pretense of being independent professionals.”

Plunkett said that Davidson is both content and frustrated. “The trustee form of government is very predictable, if nothing else. A trustee is a nice man who has power and can say what he wants to. Often he says, ‘Don’t rock the boat.’”

Plunkett stated that he thought Davidson should develop a clear form of faculty evaluation. “We need to know the goals for our teaching. What kinds of things do we encourage students to learn and are these the most valuable things they should learn?

“There are a number of teachers here who are acknowledged to be excellent by both faculty and students. We ought to film their classes.”

Plunkett said that it was unfortunate that more explicit discussion of teaching methods is not a part of faculty (and student) life.

Plunkett hopes to return to anthropological work through a foundation grant, and curtail his work in teaching.

(Don't Rock the Boat - Plunkett)will return to anthropological work after leaving David-

‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’ Highlights 1973-74 College Drama Season Opening

By FRAZIER MARSH
Staff Writer

The Davidson Drama Department will begin its 1973-74 season next Wednesday with the student opening of William Shakespeare's "A Midsummer Night’s Dream" at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall. The play is centered around the capriciousness and changeability of lovers. Shakespeare presents a group of lovers so irresponsible in their actions that their freakish behavior can be explained only by the intervention of supernatural beings, who seem to turn order into chaos. The play is one of Shakespeare’s most delightful and popular comedies.

Director Rupert T. Barber is very excited over the production. “It was necessary to construct an entire stage for this production,” he said. “Mike Ramsey and I have spent many hours trying to design a set which would be suitable to our unique tastes. It took three designs before we were fully satisfied. The final set is terrific,” he admitted.

In the past, Barber has produced Shakespearean plays in a more conventional manner. When asked if the production would be presented in the Elizabethan style, Barber said, “Although the plays of Shakespeare are Elizabethan in character, this does not mean that they are restricted to that time period only. ‘A Midsummer Night's Dream’ may be produced within any time period. It has a timeless quality about it. The play is just as relevant to the 20th century as it is to the 16th century. I feel that keeping Shakespeare within his own time period can at times hinder a production,” Barber explained.

Scott Reid, who plays Snout the tinker, one of Shakespeare's rustics, said, “When I was cast in the play I was rather hesitant about the part. I could just see myself sitting down weeks ahead of time trying to get my ‘thees’ and ‘thous’ in their right places. I must admit that I was very surprised to see how easy the language is to learn and even to remember.”

Valerie Grey, one of the fairies, remarked, “Doing Shakespeare like this is really a delight. There is never a dull moment. Someone is either being chased, transformed, or playing tricks on someone throughout the whole play. The only thing I regret is that I will be on stage and will not be able to sit in the audience and really enjoy the show,” she remarked.

Nancy Moncure, the resident music coordinator and choreographer, also enjoys working with the play. “It is the kind of play that will be a great success,” she said. “All of the cast has put in countless hours on rehearsals. They are a dedicated group of people that want to have a good show for the college.”

“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” will be presented next week, running from Wednesday to Saturday, Oct. 31 - Nov. 3. The play will begin at 8:15 p.m.

WHO’s WHO

The following seniors have been selected by Davidson College for WHO’s WHO IN AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES: Jerry Godbehere, Bo Phillips, Alex Hoon, Woody Connette, David Bender, Joe Earle, Mitch Purvis, Mark Monson, Miles Ward, Doug Brown, Ronald Gibson, Robert Touchton, Whit Whitworth, Robert Cunningham, John Douglas, Bill Ralston, T. J. Pecorak, Calvin Allen, Robert Strand, Michael Sorrentino, and Eddie Williamson.

A committee of 25 chose the senior nominees. The committee was composed of half faculty members and half students from the junior class. Dean of Students Will Terry praised the selected seniors, “These people are recognized by faculty and students for their contributions to the life of the campus in the many areas where they serve. It's a recognition of leadership, their energy, and their service to their fellow students and the college.”

“Where the good things are!”
Cornelius, N. C. 892-8468