Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

FOUR OCTOBER 19, 1973

College Community Must Respond To Town-Gown Conflict

That Davidson College is a community not plagued by the foibles and frailties of the human spirit has been an
ideal long cherished by many here. To prove this to the avowed disbeliever, one need only point to the Davidson
honor system, a respected and effective institution, but one which would have little hope for applicability in the outside world.
However, the events of the past weeks, including the rape of a coed and the alarming increase in thievery, have
for some dashed this cherished ideal to the ground, with all the resultant suspicion and mistrust.

The blame has been variously affixed to a number of groups, but the one to which it is most commonly
assigned is the “townies,” especially the black element. In this process, the hopes of many for a town-gown community in
which brotherhood and trust would be a uniting bond have been seriously damaged. We do not feel that recent events
merit such a harsh conclusion, but rather one based on a more objective, realistic analysis of the situation.

Few people would deny that the blessings of comfort and prosperity have been disproportionately spread across the world, so that
some find themselves living in an opulence unimaginable even a generation ago, while others are forced to struggle to survive.
One need only go as far as the squalid dwellings of some of the Davidson townspeople to be struck by
that grim reality. It would be totally unrealistic to expect these people not to hunger for the same luxuries and
pleasures which the predominately white middle to upper-middle class America enjoys, especially when they can vicariously experience those pleasures through
the medium of the television, which itself can only taunt the less fortunate as it entertains them.

However, to carry this argument to the point where all such townspeople, black and white, will steal at will or
rape at gunpoint to fleetingly experience these things is very wrong. Admittedly there might be a small element who could
commit such acts to gain a measure of satisfaction, but the element must be thought of as just that -
small. One cannot allow such thinking to explode into an across-the-board judgment of disadvantaged people in this community. To the
people that would deem rape and theft justifiable under the circumstances, we must show understanding rather than hate, for their
acts are symptomatic of a disease curable only by human love and compassion.

Our advice for those within the immediate Davidson College community, all of whom must somehow deal with this problem, would
be as follows. Do not flaunt your position, either by traveling in unsafe areas or by making your valuables easily
appropriated. Instead, use a little discretion with regard to these matters, and act accordingly. Do something in a positive sense
to alleviate this problem. Get involved in some kind of activity which demonstrates your sensitivity toward others. For example, the
YM/YWCA presents an excellent chance to do just this, as it offers a variety of educational and recreational programs designed
to bridge the barriers between the college and the town. If you do not feel comfortable in such a program,
try something far simpler, but equally effective. Instead of ignoring those in the community whom you do not know personally,
give a smile and say “Hello, how are you?” For even such a simple gesture as this represents a step
in the right direction.

The Fire Man Cometh

“And God said, ‘In the beginning, there was fire.’” And with that, the Prophet of Fire Man ensured that there
would be fire, flames the likes of which Davidson had not yet seen. On Tuesday night, Davidson witnessed an assembly
that is very much indicative of a mood change that has hit the campus this year. Some attribute this change
to the presence of women. Whether or not this is so, no one can say, but whatever its causes, the
tension, the self-consciousness and perhaps some of the melancholy of the Davidson experience are waning.ESS brs bi let Shr tl
Lith att bh? har Ea Taree bt Pt Pear St Ree

The performances of Fire Man, Krishna, the Vestal Virgins, and the hooligans, Captain America and Bucky, were attended by a
crowd almost medieval in appearance. Capes, masks, bastard military dress, and glittered faces, lighted by roman candles and torches, made
this jesting, near-Satanic rite enjoyable and thoroughly insane. Those who came were amused. Perhaps this fact indicates a lack of
alternative activity, but perhaps it better betrays a creeping, healthy frivolity.

ALAN BLAKLEY

Students To Judge JYA Opportunities

Fred Gaige already has begun spreading his JYA propaganda among unsuspecting freshmen and hesitant sophomores. That’s his job, of course.
Yet before freshmen and sophomores decide that JYA takes them to the Land of Milk and Honey, they should examine
both sides of the program.

The first advantage that appears to the student lies in the ability to leave the Davidson campus for an entire
year. An entire year away from the Thursday night boredom, the weekend shutout, and the Sunday afternoon blahs. The second
advantage, and one that can hardly be overrated, comes from leaving this country. The student who is disgusted by the
methods used by the American government to solve problems is able to learn how other Western countries solve similar problems.
The political activities around these two universities afford excellent opportunities for understanding the French or German governments.

The campuses of Marburg and Montpelier are much more exciting. They are large universities and offer many of the social
functions Davidson lacks. The level of political activism at these universities, especially Marburg, is astounding. Students at the JYA universities
have an important role in decisions reserved completely for the faculty at Davidson. Related to the political enlightenment is the
ability to view another culture and society. The student is forced to adjust to a new situation. He is now
the foreigner. He must realize the underlying assumptions that he has held since his early years. The student is able
to question those assumptions by noticing that the French or Germans do not share these cultural postulates. This procedure of
evaluation and reconstruction of assumptions is effected with greater ease during JYA than at Davidson. Evaluation of the American culture
from within is almost academic. Yet for the student on JYA, it is a very real part of life. He
must re-evaluate in order to properly adjust to his new situation.

We have already hinted at one aspect: the political activism on campuses is so widespread that there is no way
to avoid it. Marxism, which always sounds nice here, usually becomes little more than an academic pursuit. Yet in Montpelier,
we see it as an active and viable political ideology. It is not only espoused by the students but actively
worked for in the local political arena. The political pursuits creep into the lifestyles in Marburg. Students in Germany are
much more willing to live their belief in Marxism outside the political battles. This is an occurrence we see very
little of on the home campus.

The student majoring in a language or studying topics in literature gains more than anyone else. In understanding the intricacies
of the use of the language, he may gain insights into French or German literature that could never come from
reading in translation or with a dictionary always in hand. He may also begin to understand the social and cultural
settings that surround the literature he is studying. We believe that a language or a literature that is different from
English cannot be studied properly without this experience. The aspects of language and literature that are most important are many
times aspects which cannot be conveyed in secondary sources. These aspects must be drawn from living in the proper society.

Junior Year Abroad has a lot to offer. The JYA student is forced into a situation where he must adjust
by learning a language and by examining his own culture. We believe that entering a new society can be the
basis for an excellent experience.

I Can't Drop Any Grades, My Hands Are Tied
