Six October 19, 1973 The Davidsonian

Mild Miller Flavor Dominates Heavy Guitar In ‘The Joker’
By WILL ROBERTSON
Staff Writer

Last night I ran into an old friend. He had always been pretty sharp, but I hadn't seen him for a few years and I had heard a few bad things about him. I was very pleased to find that my old friend is neater than ever and hanging out with a fine bunch of fellows. In other words, Steve Miller's new album, “The Joker,” is one of the nicest surprises of the year.

Miller has a new band, and they play some extremely slippery rock and roll with the traditional Miller flavor. Miller's appeal always came from a completely unique airy quality. On this album he displays the mellow Miller voice and instrumentals that are so fine. “Sugar Babe” is a fine song that begins the album. It’s a good party song with very competent guitar. Miller is now playing some exceedingly aggressive leads that are somewhat in the Mick Taylor style. Miller is also flash on the guitar on the title cut. This is perhaps the best song on the album - very authoritative instrumentally, with exemplary use of the wah-wah.

The album has two live cuts, the first, an old Woody Payne blues number, “Come On In My Kitchen.” This song does not appeal to me a great deal, but a Steve Miller album would not be complete without a few weak cuts. The second live song, “Evil,” is much better, with very good vocals, and interests me in seeing Miller's concert in Charlotte next Saturday. The guitar is a bit overdone at times, but with a few good licks, also.

It was always great to turn the stereo up to wall-shaking volume and sing along with Miller. “Something to Believe In” is the sing-along tune on this album, and it is a fine one. The chorus is pretty, and astral Stratocaster notes float about along with the steel guitar. All together now. Steve Miller Band. “The Joker.” An old friend is back in style.

Big Brother To Watch 32 Vicious Cycle Races

Got a bicycle? Want to race? Maybe even win a $450 Raleigh Professional racing bike and help a lot of fatherless boys at the same time? It’s all happening Saturday, Oct. 27, when bicycle enthusiasts from throughout the Carolinas converge on the Charlotte Motor Speedway for the first annual Big Brothers Pedal Power Classic.

The bike races, 32 of them in all, will be run from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Speedway. A $1 admission, proceeds of which go to assist the work of the Big Brothers, covers admission to the races and entry fee for all BBPPC open events. (Five of the races are closed to members of the Amateur Bicycle League of America.)

Leon Russell's new album, “Hank,” has his name only on the shrink-wrap, and he calls himself Hank Wilson on this wonderful record. It is pure unadulterated country music with some of Nashville’s best session men helping Russell get back to the roots.

Eric Clapton's “Rainbow Concert” was eagerly awaited because of the personnel involved: Steve Winwood, Pete Townshend, Ron Wood, and others. It is poorly mixed, lifeless, and a big disappointment.

Stevie Wonder has been getting very serious on his last few albums. “Innervisions,” the latest, is a beautiful album, with excellent musicians participating. The jazz and blues influences are apparent and Stevie is as funky as ever.

Chalmers Davidson sports the new fall Homecoming Scottish Festival.

A LITTLE LEG line in kilts at By FRANCIS TOWNSEND Asst. Features Editor

A collection of prints, drawings and paintings by Stephen White is now on display at the Mint Museum of Art. Best known for his series of woodcuts portraying the Amish peoples of the midwestern United States, White concentrates on the depiction of the individual character and personality. The exhibition will continue until Nov. 1.

Loggins and Messina will be presented in concert Saturday at 8 p.m. at the Charlotte Coliseum. Tickets are available from the Coliseum box office.

“The Boys in the Band” will be staged by the Central Piedmont Community College Drama Club this Friday and Saturday, and next Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 8:15 p.m. Mart Crowley's powerful and moving script examines the confrontation of a group of homosexuals with a character whom, they believe, refuses to admit that he once was and still is a homosexual. The New York Times called the play “uncompromising in its honesty.” Tickets are available from the CPCC Drama Office at $2.50 a seat. No advance reservations will be taken.

Philippe Cousteau, world-renowned oceanographer, will appear in person at the first of the Charlotte Nature Museum’s Annual Ecology Program series at Ovens Auditorium on Saturday. Cousteau will discuss his Antarctic Exploration and will narrate a preview film of his Television Special to be aired on ABC, November 29. The film footage recounts the voyage to the Atlantic made by Philippe.Cousteau, his father Jacques Cousteau, and the divers of the Calypso during the Antarctic summer of Dec. 1972 to March 1973. Featured will be underwater shots of unexplored caves and icebergs. Tickets are available from Ovens Auditorium. The performances are at 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. Barbara Loudine’s one-woman show will continue to be on display at the Garden Gallery of the Mint Museum until Oct. 28. Working primarily in pastels, the artist uses a dreamlike technique which evokes childhood images, revealing a kinship of feeling with Redon and Ensor.

“A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum,” the hit Broadway musical, will be showing at the Pineville Dinner Theatre until Oct. 28. The play, with its adaptations of Plautine comedy, promises to provide an evening of ribald, slapstick enjoyment. The book is by Burt Shevelove and Larry Gelbart, and music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim.

“Are you going to Scarborough Fair? Parsley, sage, rosemary, and thyme. Remember me to the one who was there; she once was a true love of mine.” This wistful tune sets the mood for the new release at the Visulite Theatre (Elizabeth St. in Charlotte), “Heavy Traffic.” Produced by Steve Krantz, written and directed by Ralph (“Fritz the Cat”) Bakshi, “Heavy Traffic” is a puzzling movie. Consider the theme, “Scarborough Fair.” A sweet, wistful tune, it is used in conjunction with the “hero” Michael Corleone as he fantasizes about life while being taken to the cleaners by a pinball machine. Michael is a naive, virgin cartoonist struggling to sell his work and escape from his sordid surroundings. His father, Angie, is a small-time hood whose ambition is to break a dock strike for his “Godfather.” Michael's mother, Ida, is a Jewish harpy who constantly fights Angie for control of Michael. Completing the cast are Michael’s black girlfriend, a bunch of greasers whose main pastime is spilling each other's blood, and assorted freaks, weirdos, and crazies. The film follows Michael's path of lost innocence and eventual death. Fantasy and reality are confused as animated figures are superimposed on shots of New York’s low-life. In his fantasy, Michael becomes more and more a part of this nether-region. Unfortunately, (or perhaps fortunately for the real Michael), he cannot be a true part of this world. Angie puts out a “contract” on him, and he is...

Technically, “Heavy Traffic” is an impressive vehicle for the talents of Bakshi’s studio. The entire film is subordinated to technique. Ted Bemiller's surrealistic cinematography lends a proper hellish quality to the shots of New York's lower east side. The offbeat artwork of Ira Turek, Mark Kausler, and Sue Carey is superb, as is Don Ernst’s editing. Where “Heavy Traffic” falters is in its moral pretentiousness. Bakshi tries to make a morality play out of Michael's fantasy, rather than letting the viewer simply marvel at his technical achievements. The problem with Bakshi is that he isn't satisfied with being a great cartoonist; he wants to be a philosopher too. He is triumphant in the former, but laughable in the latter. If you liked “Fritz the Cat,” you'll love “Heavy Traffic.” As an exercise in the absurd, it is enjoyable and mildly thought-provoking; as a technical achievement, it is nothing short of remarkable. There is one warning - this film thoroughly deserves its “X” rating. If you're not offended by some part of “Heavy Traffic,” it’s possible you can't be offended.

By PETER CELANTANO

“Kid Blue”

In “Kid Blue,” we have the case of a gifted cinematographer languishing in the clutches of a brutal director. When Billy Williams photographed Ken Russell's “Women in Love,” he was working under a visually exciting director, and the results are memorable if uneven. The director of “Kid Blue” is a villain by the name of James Frawley. In this film, much of Williams's cinematography is the worst I’ve ever seen (he also did “Sunday, Bloody Sunday”), especially the outdoor scenes. These are generally sunstruck and feature some of the ugliest skies I have ever seen outside of cigarette advertisements. The interiors fare somewhat better, and some moments are wistful reminders of “Women in Love.” Williams's best work in “Kid Blue,” which is largely a repeat of some earlier work in “Women in Love,” is in the factory interiors, where he gets to play with dark tones.

The only other good thing about “Kid Blue” is some of the costume designing by Theodora Von Runkle, who did better work for “Bonnie and Clyde.” Cinematography and costumes, as elements in a movie, are too passive to wake a sleepy screen. It’s direction, acting, and comic stylization that are really needed. But James Frawley directed, which leaves us nowhere. Peter Boyle, Ben Johnson, and Warren Oates are wasted (I would like to see Oates under John Huston’s direction someday), and the other members of the cast are generally unspeakable. As for the comic stylization, I'll admit I laughed at a couple of scenes, but most are as bad as everything else in the film.

By JOE MCMILLAN