BOBBBBBBBBBBOTTOMS UP (Staff photo by Goodman) Anti-liquor advertisement for annual alcohol issue which will be voted upon Nov. 6th.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
The Davidsonian
October 26, 1973

Nine

MARY HOBBIE
Cynicism Overcome By Word Of Peace

Last week a petition was circulated here at Davidson. It was a petition requesting that U.S. troops not be committed
to the fighting in the Middle East. By the time you read this, the war in the Middle East may
be over. But I am not going to discuss the war, or even the pros and cons of U.S. troop
commitment. I want to talk about why the petition was circulated.

Time after time students and members of the faculty came to sign the petition or to talk about it. Often
they turned away with a sigh, saying, “It won't do any good anyway.” They must not have looked very closely
at the students who were circulating the petition.

True Dean Story Reveals Discontent, George Explains Yearbook Finances

To the Editor:

Depending on one’s stance, he can view the position of Quips and Cranks in many ways. Therefore, I must clarify
some points brought up by Todd Eades’ article and his actions in the Senate last week; it is important that
we see all of the information.

For some reason that neither the author of the article on Quips and Cranks in the Oct. 12 issue of
THE DAVIDSONIAN nor I understand, some people got the impression that blame for the late arrival of the ’73 edition
could fall on the Campus Tax Council. Such an assertion is absurd; no such allegation was made.

Eades was correct in saying that the only effect is created by the amount budgeted for an activity, however, he
was incorrect or incomplete in other areas. Also, Eades was not complete in his explanation of Quips and Cranks financing
in recent years. While it is true that the total budget was in the area of $16,000 to $18,000 as
recently as 1966-69, this figure was never funded by Campus Tax and the figures included money made directly by the
book through the sale of advertising and of copies to faculty, administration, and alumni.

Prior to the ‘72 annual, the funds were accumulated in a different system—abandoned because of the inequities and awkwardness—in which
activities and organizations were billed for their space. The present system was designed so that Campus Tax would provide one
allotment rather than 30 or so often unpaid ones.

Here Eades overlooked an incident which when stated would show two of his statements to be obviously fallacious. First, although
Campus Tax might not intend to do so in the future (to its credit), the Quips and Cranks budget was
cut well after it had been allotted for the '72 book. This occurred the same year that we switched funding
procedures. Secondly, the Quips and Cranks budget could not have been “cut” to fund WDAV’s conversion to FM last year;
it remained at the all-time low of $8000 achieved in the fall of 1971.

Perhaps the same erroneous reasoning which leads one to declare that “the budget is based largely on the previous year’s
total which is then usually increased” while later stating that it is necessary to cut activities’ funds to make room
for new ones, has led someone to a justification for such obviously incorrect statements.

I have been quoted as saying that planning for a yearbook must begin 1-1/2 years before publication. This is essential—in
the months following his election here in January the editor must formulate his ideas for theme and techniques while hunting
the best company for his purposes. He does not need to know the exact amount of money allocated until late
spring when he signs a contract for printing. Thus the present system suits him ideally, for it is during the
summer that actual down-to-earth planning occurs and production is set up. I therefore fail to see how a Senate committee
of “laymen” can improve on a system which editors find no fault with.

Jeffrey L. George '76
Editor, Quips and Cranks
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I take this opportunity to call your attention to an error in the article entitled “Connette Pamphlet Tells of Trail
Walk” published in the October 1973 issue of “Davidson Update.” The article states that Lynn Dean is now a senior,
which is not true. Lynn Dean decided to leave Davidson early in the spring term of 1973. He is now
living in Idaho.

Lynn left Davidson after becoming increasingly dissatisfied both with the quality of the educational experience at Davidson and with the
inability of the “Davidson structure” to accommodate his goals. Davidson was either unable or unwilling to grant him the opportunities
for self-fulfillment for which he has paid. Instead, the college has capitalized on the fact that the project Lynn and
Woody Connette demanded to be allowed to do turned out to be largely successful. Both the News Bureau and the
Admissions Office, taking advantage of this fact, have tried to present Davidson as a place with open opportunities for self-development,
for independent study, and for experiential learning, while at the same time the faculty has taken steps to kill effectively
these opportunities by grudgingly admitting the possibility of extended studies as an option.

I and others who know Lynn Deanresent the fact that the News Bureau, the Admissions Office, and other departments whose
primary concern is public relations have insisted on maintaining the fictions surrounding the walk he made and what can be
done at Davidson within the educational framework. The same lack of ability, insight, or intelligence among faculty and staff which
has castrated the Extended Studies Program and attempted to eliminate the other outlets for independent study at or away from
Davidson would effectively prevent it for all but the most tenacious of students - the very students who probably have
the least actual need for the experience independent study can provide.

Roger Manley '74
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Is a queen contest really necessary at Davidson? Is it in keeping with Davidson's goals for women? Some would say,
“why not have a queen contest - it’s harmless, and what's more it’s good entertainment for the alumni.” I would
suggest that it is not harmless, and that Davidson students can think of more creative ways to entertain the alumni.

A queen contest is not harmless in that it rewards a stereotype which is not in keeping with the reasons
students, including women, are at Davidson. Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Alpha Epsilon Delta, North Carolina Fellows... all reward
students for displayed intellect, accomplished success, or future promise as a leader. A queen contest does none of these. Instead,
it sends signals to young women about what characteristics are rewardable in our society, characteristics which have little relationship to
meaningful pursuits at Davidson.

From a personal standpoint, it causes the winner embarrassment - replete with the expected blushing and unnatural ‘thank yous’ on
stage and afterwards. And for the losers, which might include all women at Davidson, more embarrassment - because they were
not deemed ‘lovely with charming personalities.’ Queen contests might be appropriate in some settings, depending on an organization’s espoused goals.
But Davidson College is not such an organization. I challenge the students of Davidson, men and women, to creatively replace
the college queen contest.

Mary Dawn Liston
Davidson, N.C.

The people circulating the petition were not exactly wild-eyed fanatics who think a petition from Davidson can stop wars. They
were not even (for the most part) wide-eyed idealists who thought the petition would get any official notice. Many of
those who worked on the petition have been this route before. Many marched in the peace demonstrations in Washington. Many
of them wore black armbands (remember those?) while still in high school, or even junior high. These people do not
need to be told that the petition would probably be ineffective. They are already fighting a losing battle in trying
not to be overcome by cynicism and apathy.

Many people who were circulating the petition are tired of the struggle. It would be so nice to forget the
whole mess and let the Big Boys in Washington handle everything. They are tired of demonstrations, tired of anti-war rallies,
tired of petitions. They know it probably “won’t do any good.” But the students, staff, and faculty who helped with
the petition know something else equally well. We, the people of the United States, cannot afford to let national policy
be set without our voices being raised. We cannot avoid our responsibility. Supposedly, our leaders govern by the consent of
the governed. Silence on an issue legally signifies assent. As citizens of the United States, we are responsible for the
actions of our leaders. If we remain silent when we disagree with national policy, one day we will say with
Pogo, “We have met the enemy and they is us.”

As citizens of the United States, we share the responsibility for national policies. When we say, “It won’t do any
good,” we are not repudiating our responsibility. We are simply giving our leaders the green light to do as they
please. We are remaining deaf and dumb to the eternal question, “Who will speak the word of peace?”

Entertainment
By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Asst. Features Editor

“Tosca” by Puccini will be presented in English by the Charlotte Opera Association today at 8 p.m. and Sunday at
2:30 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. Featured singers are Marisa Galvany, John Alexander, and Vern Shinall. Ticket information may be procured
by calling the auditorium box office.

The Ice Capades will perform two shows Tuesday and Wednesday at the Charlotte Coliseum. Tickets are from $2.50 - $4.50
- a small price to pay for the gelid antics of the skaters and the scantily clad figure of Olympian
Peggy Fleming.

A collection of prints, drawings, and paintings by Stephen White is now on display at the Mint Museum of Art.
Best known for his series of woodcuts portraying the Amish peoples of the midwestern United States, White concentrates on the
depiction of the individual character and personality.

“The Boys in the Band” will be staged by the Central Piedmont Community College Drama Club today and Saturday at
8:15 p.m. Mart Crowley's powerful and moving script examines the confrontation of a group of homosexuals with a character whom
they believe refuses to admit that he once was and still is a homosexual. The New York Times called the
play ‘uncompromising in its honesty.’ Tickets are available from the CPCC Drama Office at $2.50 a seat. No advance reservations
will be taken Sunday.
