Vol. LAT. No Twenty The Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students March 30, 1973

Spring Frolics Weekend Rescheduled
By BETSY ALLEN ANDER
Contributing Editor

Spring Frolics this year are not going to be like any other Spring Frolics because there are very few free
weekends, explained Joe Earle, president of the student body. Spring Frolics, originally scheduled for April 27-28 with concerts and dances,
turned out to be also the date for the Southern Conference games of the track, golf, and baseball teams, the
date of the Graduate Record Exams, English and History Comprehensive Exams, Convocation, and Alumni Weekend.

Mark Connors, of the track team, petitioned at the Social Council meeting Tuesday night. "We got 100 names in a
day and a half to change the date of the Spring Frolics," Connors protested that the proposed date would unjustly
exclude a majority of the campus. The options we’ve been given as a council represent a real obligation to Queens
not to conflict with their May Day.

(Stall photo by Goodman)
LETTING OFF STEAM
The fire department and a few hundred students turned out shortly after 6 p.m. last Tuesday behind Belk Dormitory to
watch a head of steam rise from a broken pipe valve. Although Belk had no hot water Tuesday evening as
a consequence, by Wednesday night the valve had been repaired.

Pre-Council task force did several compatibility studies of various dates, expressed regret but as Earle said, "hands are tied." The
problem boiled down to a lack of communications between student organizations and the calendar planners. The Frolics date fluctuated between
the weekend of the 27-28 and the weekend of May Day. Witten would have involved a joint concert with Queens
in Charlotte. When that fell through, Earle said, "We had to go back to the 27-28. The only compromise we
got was to go back to that weekend. We never knew of objections to the track meet."

None said, "We hate for Frolics to be possibly torn by the track team upset."

Various members of the Social Council were feeling they were doing the best before events. For the past three years,
Spring Frolics have been held the weekend of the Davidson Relays. Replied John Bordie, president of the Social Council, "To
personally oversee sorting out a shortage of good weekends to have Spring Frolics, we had not known of the track
championships. This was not on the calendar. Paton Mapper said this was his first year. Later, however, someone checked and
track GRE and History Comprehensive were recorded on the master calendar," said Earle. "So when we rescheduled, we didn’t realize
they were on there. Two months ago, the bottom line seemed to be the weekend before Easter, and April 14
is a Saturday class day and the date of the Davidson Relays. Comparing the two weekends, this was the better,"
said Earle. "We’re boxed in now with a very bad weekend for Spring Frolics. To treat, but not remedy, a
bad situation, the Social Council in a hurried session decided to take some of the money from Spring Frolics to
use for a big weekend April 13-14. We’re having events," said Earle, "that will be exceptionally fine weekends but will
have activities going on almost continuously two weeks. The Artist Series will present the Joffrey II ballet, one of the
best ballet companies in the world, on April 13, Saturday afternoon, with a beer party following."

(See SPRING, Page 12)

Convocation Features Martin, Honors Billman, Davidson
By MARK DE VEON
Asst. Managing Editor

Spring Convocation, the three foremost ceremonies conducted at Davidson College, will be held in Love Auditorium at 11:00 a.m.Ried is
[Pruey] North Carolina 9th District Congressman and former Davidson Chemistry professor Jim Martin will be the featured speaker at the
ceremonies. Honorary degrees will be conferred upon Robert Franklin Davidson '25 and Cort Belin at the ceremony. Davidson, the first
Rhodes Scholar from the college, dean emeritus of Presbyterian College, and brother of Davidson Library Director Chalmers Davidson, will receive
a Doctor of Letters. Belin, executive secretary, will receive a Doctor of Laws.

Faculty Refers Honors College Proposal To EPC For Study
By BOB HOWELL
Managing Editor

A proposal which would terminate the Honors College as it now exists has been referred by the faculty to the
Educational Policy Committee (EPC) for further study. Presented to the faculty at its last meeting before spring break, the proposal
recommends abolishing the Honors College as a separate institution while incorporating facilities for honors level work into the regular college
curriculum.

"This would put much more responsibility upon the individual departments at the college and would open up the possibility for
honors work to more students," explained Professor of Psychology John Kelton, chairman of the Committee for the Evaluation of the
Honors College.

A Council of Honors Studies would coordinate for the entire college the kinds of programs now conducted within the Honors
College. The present Honors College building would be renamed the Center for Honors Studies, serving as the basic facility for
activities involving honors students and housing the office of a Director of the Center for Honors Studies. The Director would
serve as the chairman of the Council of Honors Studies, which would include also all the department heads of the
regular college and the vice president for academic affairs.

Kelton said this committee had been working since December to evaluate the operation of the Honors College through questionnaires and
interviews with the administration, Honors College faculty, regular college faculty, department chairmen, Honors College students, and regular college students.

"Examining the situation that presently exists—its difficulties and advantages—we felt that everybody expressed some desire to broaden the scope of
honors level work at Davidson," said Kelton, "but it seems the structure of the Honors College hasn't been able to
do this. We hope that we can retain the benefits of the Honors College experiment while overcoming its built-in difficulties."

Rather than act on the question at this point, Kelton explained, the faculty decided to look into it further and
instructed the EPC to examine the proposal in detail.

(For further details concerning the present and future of the Honors College, see the Special Report on pages 6 and
7 of this week's DAVIDSONIAN.)

Poet Patent

The Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa announced at Spring Convocation the David Halbert Howard Jr. Chemistry
Award, the Sandy Black Memorial Award for an outstanding pre-med, the A. F. Phifer Award for achievement in economics, and
the George L. Gladstone Memorial Award for service to mankind will be given.

Scholarship

The John Peters Award for outstanding scholarship, the Thomas D. Sparrow Award for dedication to intercollegiate athletics, and the Agnes
Sentelle Brown Award for the senior showing outstanding promise as demonstrated by his character, personality, scholarship, and intellectual ability will
also be presented.

Chambers students, a luncheon in Banquet Hall for parents and alumni will follow the ceremony.

COMING SOON
Spring Convocation is scheduled for April 27.
