Page Twelve April 20, 1973 The Davidsonian

Friday, April 20
All week - Art Exhibit: The Second Davidson National Creative Photos: Extended Chambers Foyer
Studies in Photography
Popular Film: "Fellini Satyricon"
Stowe Galleries
8 & 10 p.m. Love Auditorium

Saturday, April 21
All day Black Student Coalition
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: "Fellini Satyricon"
Love Auditorium

Monday, April 23
7 p.m. Grievance Committee Cunningham Room
7 p.m. Community Folk Service Martin Room
8 & 10 p.m. Hollywood, Asia Film Festival: "Bengal Brigade" Morrison Room

Tuesday, April 24
10 a.m. Any Questions? Dr. Spencer Ovens Room
4 p.m. Distaff Fashion Show Tea Chambers Banquet Hall
4 p.m. Film: "Victory" Hodson Hall
8 p.m. Poetry Reading: Robert Grey Rathskeller
8:15 p.m. American Guild of College Organists Concert: Louis Deaton Church

Wednesday, April 25
4 p.m. Vereen Bell Writing Awards Perkins Auditorium
8 p.m. Fine Film: "Touch of Evil" Love Auditorium
8 p.m. D.C. Flying Club Ground School Chambers 211

Thursday, April 26
10 a.m. Humanities Film: "Horsemen Pass By" Perkins Auditorium
12 noon Film: "Emperor Jones" Love Auditorium

Friday, April 27
9 a.m. Peace Corps and Vista Martin Room
11 a.m. Spring Convocation Address: Congressman Jim Martin Love Auditorium
12:30 p.m. Convocation Luncheon Chambers Banquet Hall
All day Carnival Rides Main Street Parking Lot
2:30 & 3:30 p.m. Drama: "Curse You, Jack Dalton" Drama Workshop
3 p.m. Lazy Afternoon Cunningham Lawn
7:30 p.m. Concert: Blue Oyster Cult Love Auditorium
10 & 12 p.m. Film: "Fillmore" Outside
10 p.m. Zany Talent Show Rathskeller
Coffee and Donuts Union

Saturday, April 28
11 a.m. Drama: "Curse You, Jack Dalton" Drama Workshop
2 & 4 p.m. Film: "Fillmore" Love Auditorium
2:30 p.m. Square Dance Front Lawn
4 p.m. Balloonist Richardson Stadium
9 p.m. Concert: Freddie King Love Auditorium
11 p.m. Chambers Night Club: Matthew and Peter Chambers Banquet Hall
11 p.m. Coffee and Donuts Union

(Staff photo by Porter)
SWING YOUR PARTNER
Will Terry is a multi-talented man. On Friday night, he discarded his role as Dean of Students, and became a square dance caller for a dance at the YMCA.

(Staff photo by Goodman)
FUTURE APARTMENT SITE
This scenic Lake Norman lot may house Davidson students next year.

... Lake Norman Apartments

(Continued From Page 1)
Contracting specialists, such as electricians and plumbers, are coming into the spring with a heavy workload.

When asked about the type of housing that would be constructed, Baker said that it was "a design, which the best way to describe would be that it was oriented to the college."

Baker described it as "a very medium-priced project with as much quality as we can get into it."

Baker, in describing the facilities which would be included in the apartment complex, mentioned "townhouse design units with built-in kitchens, a central laundry for those who want to use it, and a swimming pool."

As to the larger Phase II apartments, Baker said that the firm would "naturally rent to anybody who wanted to buy. Our tentative plans are that the larger apartments would probably cater to working families who would naturally pay more for them."

In answer to whether there had been any criticism from people concerning possible disruption of the lake environment over the building, Baker indicated that there had been "none as yet; I don't know why there should be either.

"We don't plan on doing anything to the lake. Besides, I understand that that part of Lake Norman is polluted anyway," he said.

Robert A. Currie, college business manager, agreed with Baker's statement on the company's extended optimism.

"It looks as though the (Observer) article was a little too premature," Currie said.

"Concerning the construction depending on 'weather and completion of a feasibility study and arrangements for financing' as he (Baker) says in the article, well to me that's really saying nothing, and from the appearance of the article, it looks like they're a long way from doing this," he said.

Currie did agree wholeheartedly that the housing project should alleviate the room shortage on the campus.

"From the standpoint of married students, faculty, and staff, we could certainly use some new housing in the town," Currie said.

When asked of his feelings on the building, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. indicated that he and Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell "knew nothing more about the project than what had been written in the newspaper."

Receiving the Doctor of Letters degree will be Robert F. Davidson '23, Dean Emeritus of St. Anselm's College, who has held the position of Executive Secretary of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa since 1947.

James G. Martin, U.S. Congressman and former Davidson Chemistry professor, will be the featured speaker.

The Convocation will be held at 11 a.m. in Love Auditorium.

A luncheon will follow at 12:30 p.m. in Chambers Dining Hall. Luncheon tickets are complimentary for all students and their parents.

Bowling
MOOR LANES
Daytime Student Rates Snack Bar
Billiard Tables Mooresville Pin Machines
Open Til 9:00 Every Night
Lowest Prices On All Beverages