The Davidsonian § March 9, 1973 Page Seven

Menton Sparks Net Win Over Purdue
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

With Kevin Menton playing the number one seed and handling his opponent in three sets, the Davidson tennis team swept an 8-1 match from Purdue. “We looked really good for the first match of the year,” said Coach Jeff Frank. “I was very well pleased with our play, to say the least.”

Frank had good reason to be pleased. The Wildcats swept all six singles matches, four of them in straight sets. Menton led off with a 7-6, 4-6, 6-2 crushing of the Boilermaker first seed. David Weaver followed in the number two spot with a 6-1, 6-3 slashing of Purdue's Plump. “Weaver played extremely well,” praised the 28-year-old Frank. “He played his power game and was in control of the match completely.”

Bill Allen mauled his opponent 6-3, 6-2, while Maarten Ruys crumpled his foe, 6-0, 6-2. “Allen played well also,” commented Frank. “He controlled his match all the way through. Ruys looked real strong too. His opponent looked better than a number four seed. Maarten was real impressive.”

Hy Lankenau and Rick Quinby played the last two spots and ripped through for fine wins. Lankenau took a three-set victory while Quinby blasted his opposition, 6-3, 7-5. “I thought our strength at the number five and six positions was strong,” explained Frank. “Those points that we get there are just as important as the ones we win at the top spots.”

“I think being so deep at the lower ranks is going to continue to help us throughout the year,” he continued. “It will be good to be able to have those points early in the match before going into the doubles.”

The doubles aspect of the match looked good for the Cats also. Weaver and Ruys combined in the number one doubles, clobbering their foes, 7-5, 6-0. Gary Bressler and Jim Dorsett followed with a 4-6, 6-0, 6-2 win for the final Davidson points. “We played as well as anyone could hope for this early in the season,” said Frank. “I think we are really going to be in fine shape for the coming season.”

The Cats have a 10-day break.

Rugged Paladins Maul Cats As Fouls Plague Tourney Play
By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

Davidson ended its 1972-73 season last weekend by losing the Conference final to Furman. The Cats reached the finals by defeating V.M.I., 88-77, and edging William and Mary, 79-76.

In the first game of the tournament, Davidson started off quickly and had leads as high as 18 points in the first half against V.M.I. The Keydets did not, however, give up, as they did in the earlier game this season. V.M.I. narrowed the lead to seven points but could not get any closer. The Wildcats eventually pulled away, winning by 11.

Davidson was plagued with personal fouls in this game and had four players foul out. The refereeing combination of Ralph Stout and Jim Howell, who had earlier refereed the first Davidson-Furman game which had 41 fouls against the Cats, called 31 fouls against the Wildcats. Overall, it was a poor performance for the Cats. They committed 28 turnovers in addition to the fouls. They did shoot well, however, hitting 54.5 percent of their shots.

Greg Dunn led the scoring for the Cats with 20 points. He was followed by John Falconi, Mike Sorrentino, and Larry Horowitz who scored 15, 14, and 11 points respectively.

The next night the Cats played the young William and Mary Indians. The team took a 10-point lead into the locker room at halftime, 42-32. Again the Cats’ opposition did not roll over and play dead. The Indians fought back and with three seconds remaining, tied the score at 76 all. The Cats called a timeout and set up a last play. Sorrentino received the ball under the basket and threw a lofting pass to Greg Dunn at mid-court who was fouled by Jeff Trammell. Dunn went to the line to shoot a one-and-one. Earlier against Duke, he was in a similar situation and did.not connect. STARTING OFF WITH A BANG, the Wildcats recently captured a victory in their latest outing. This time, however, they put the first shot in for a 77-76 advantage. Dunn missed the second shot, but Sorrentino put in the rebound as the gun sounded. Furman had a great deal of trouble with East Carolina as they trailed 40-29 at intermission. The second half of this game was a farce as the Pirates did not score until almost twelve minutes were gone. By this time, Furman was ahead to stay. The final score was 68-60. 

After trading baskets to make the score 9-9, Furman outscored the Cats 16 to two in the opening minutes of the championship game. The Paladins' lead stretched to as many as 21 points in the first half. Furman looked as if they would kill the Cats early, but Davidson scored the last eight points of the half to go into the locker room trailing only 48-35. Furman started off quickly in the second half and scored two quick buckets. Davidson came back and scored 13 straight points, cutting Furman’s lead to four at 52-48. Davidson could not continue this pace as Furman built their lead back up to double figures. They kept it there most of the game except for another Wildcat spurt which cut their lead to six. Furman then pulled away near the end, winning 99-81. Dunn led the Cats with 24 points to complete a good tournament. Others in double figures were Falconi, who had 14 points, Horowitz, Sorrentino, and John Pecorak, who had 10 points apiece.

Rent — Furniture From Me

PREGNANT? For confidential counseling, Call Toll Free 800-523-4436

Before they play 11 matches in 17 days, during this period they will play seven contests in a nine-day stretch, including a tough road match with UNC at Chapel Hill. “The match against Carolina will be one to see just how good we are,” said Frank. Then, with a little laugh, he added, “It is really an honor to play them. They are probably the number five team in the country. It will be interesting to see how well our boys compete.” (Staff photo by Goodman)

LAYING LOW Kevin Menton waits to smash a return.

Severn ‘Gratified,’ Swim Season Ends
By MARK CONNORS
Asst. Sports Editor

Returning from the Southern Conference Meet in Lexington, Davidson Swim Coach Ted Severn termed the experience “gratifying.” Although the team placed last out of the six teams that participated, Severn was very pleased with everyone's performance. “We scored a total of 123 points. I believe that's the most Davidson has scored in years,” commented Severn. “Many of the boys bettered their times, and we did get a couple of school records.” 

After starting off on the wrong foot when diver John Knox missed the diving events because of a scheduling mix-up, the swimmers reached the finals in four events, with fine performances by Rusty Saylor in the 100 and 200 yard breaststroke. Saylor broke the school records in both events. Doscher just missed the school mark in the 100 yard backstroke. Other standouts included Larry Urbon (100 and 200 yard breaststroke), John Scholer (1650 yard freestyle), and the 400 yard and Medley Relay Teams. “This was the last meet for both of them and they did an outstanding job,” he said. This was also Severn’s last meet as coach of the Davidson Swimming Team. He is leaving Davidson at the end of the year to continue with his Army career. “It was a very good year for everybody. I thoroughly enjoyed the season,” he said. The swimmers themselves reflected the same sentiment. Junior Greg Devane commented, “I wouldn't go down and practice on a Sunday afternoon for anyone else.” The entire team will genuinely miss Severn’s presence next year.

Bowling
Daytime Student Rates — Snack Bar
Billiard Tables

Mooresville
Ball Machines

Deal's Restaurant and Grill
Dial 663-4141
Mooresville, N.C.
Open 6 Days: 6 A.M. till Midnight
Closed Mondays
Call and Take-Out Orders Will Be Ready