Page Twelve May 18, 1973

4 p.m. Recital
All week Art Exhibit: Student Show
Stowe Galleries, Hodson Hall

7 & 11:30 p.m. Popular Films: "Celebration at Big Sur", "200 Motels"

Saturday, May 19
2 p.m. Third Annual Alumni-Varsity Football Game
Richardson Stadium

Sunday, May 20
7 p.m. NOW Meeting

Monday, May 21

Tuesday, May 22

Wednesday, May 23
8 p.m. D.C. Flying Club: Ground School
Chambers 211

Thursday, May 24
7 p.m. Catholic Mass

Friday, May 25

Saturday, May 26
EXAMS BEGIN
8 & 10 p.m. Film: "Via Max"
Morrison Room

Sunday, May 27
EXAMS END

Thursday, May 31

Saturday, June 2

(Continued From Page 1)

Outlining some of the reasons that the fund will probably not reach its goal by the scheduled close in June, Winston said, "The church sessions only meet once a month and we had over 500 sessions to meet. We will continue working during the summer since the arrival of many of our contributions will spill over into the summer. We will meet the goal, it’s just a matter of announcing its completion in the fall rather than in June," Winston concluded.

Winston said that he hoped that the publicity about the drive’s falling short of its schedule would encourage people to contribute. Bevan commented on the situation saying, "We would hope that stories about Davidson in the press would be productive to the institution as well as to higher education. We can do without this type of publicity. This article, whether intended or not intended, gave a tongue-in-cheek impression of fund raising and worse yet, fund raising in higher education."

Bevan said that he has been in touch with President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. who is out of town and has spoken to him about the matter. President Spencer's sentiments, said Bevan, were that "We should not get all alarmed over this matter until we know its implications. We have been very fortunate," said Bevan, "to have Graeme Keith as chairman of the fund drive. This drive is on its way to being a success and he has played no small part in that success. The Journal article noted that Keith was sixth on the list of people being considered for the chairmanship at the beginning of the drive. I think the drive has every chance to succeed," said Allinger, "as it has always had the potential to succeed."

Bevan related that Spencer found out about the story when he picked up a copy of the Journal in an airport and was attracted by the headline, "Expert Gets $28 Million In Six Years." Interested in finding out what the man’s secret was,

8:15 p.m. Recital: Bill Cloud, Tom Giesecke
Hodson Hall

10 & 12 p.m. Popular Film: "200 Motels"
Love Auditorium

4 p.m. Davidson College Lawn Concert

10 a.m. D.C. Photo Club

2 p.m. Corrections Meeting

8:15 p.m. Organ Recital: Wilmer Welsh
College Church

Any Questions? Dr. Spencer

8 p.m. Speaker: Owusu Sadaukai

SPRING TERM ENDS

8 & 10 p.m. Film: "Via Max"
Morrison Room

11 a.m. Church Service

4:30 p.m. Male Chorus Concert

5:30 p.m. Hospitality Hour

Sunday, June 3
1973 COMMENCEMENT
Quadrangle

Morrison Room
Cunningham Room
Martin Room
Ovens Room
Phi Hall
College Church
Faculty HomesSpencer read on only to find that the story was about the Queens-Davidson Drive.

ABORTION
Free Placement NYC
Free Preg Test
Medicaid Accepted
CALL 212-595-4220
Controlled Parenthood
Suite 55
200 W. 72nd St.
N.Y.C., N.Y.
State; Low-Cost; Non-Profit Organization

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

...11. PC Recommendations (Continued From Page 1)

forms of compensation is to support faculty members in giving time to research and to catch up in the field, activities which may have been neglected because of time spent with Extended Studies.” One member of the Extended Studies Committee, Professor of Philosophy John J. Young, dissented from this recommendation. “In order to reap the benefits of ‘released time’ or increased compensation,” he said, “a faculty member would have to supervise at least eight different projects (which could involve more than eight students) within five or six terms. He would then have to ‘catch up’, as the Report itself explicitly states, in his or her professional development. Any program which thus explicitly acknowledges that a faculty member will fall behind in his professional development is clearly self-defeating. The quality of one’s teaching certainly cannot improve from one's falling behind in one’s field; nor can one be expected to publish if one is out of touch with current developments in one’s field. In short, I still see the program as unrealistic and unfair.”

EPC Chairman John M. Bevan indicated that some more work will be done on the recommendation which concerns faculty compensation. The EPC will also look into the relationship between freshman/sophomore Extended Studies and the junior/senior program which is not dealt with in the current proposals. The final decision on the recommendations will be made by the faculty at their next meeting. Although the recommendations seem to be an apparent cutback in the program, as the Extended Studies Report itself acknowledges, according to the committee this is not the case. “Closer examination of the recommendations will reveal that these suggestions are intended to strengthen the Extended Studies Program, or at least the best features of it,” the report maintains. “We believe that independent study at the appropriate level is of great benefit to the student,” the report continues; “we know that many students must be encouraged to undertake such study, and we would urge advisers to encourage their freshmen and sophomores to involve themselves in the Extended Studies program. We do not believe that the reading programs, as now constituted, contribute materially either to the independence of student's work or, for the most part, to the addition of an interdisciplinary component to the curriculum.”

Help Vietnam's Children through UNICEF
(Staff Photo by Goodman)

ONE VOICE OF CRITICISM
Steve Suflas notes inadequacies in pre-law advising.

The Davidson meeting of Charlotte N.O.W. (the National Organization of Women) will meet this Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the Davidson College Student Union. There will be a discussion concerning high school discrimination and orientation for freshpeople. Everyone is welcome.

D.C. Pop Films Presents
A CONCERT SPECIAL
“A Celebration of Big Sur”
“200 Motels”
Double Feature in Love
May 18 at 7:00 & 11:30 p.m.

A motherless Vietnamese child—one of many thousands of small victims of the war—waits in his father’s arms for help from the United Nations Children’s Fund. UNICEF is planning major rehabilitation programs throughout Indo-China, to rebuild schools, orphanages and health centers, train nurses, teachers and social workers, and provide badly needed supplies. Public contributions may be sent to U.S. Committee for UNICEF, 331 East 38th St., New York 10016.