MILES WARD

Spencer Speech Reveals

Convocation at Davidson is traditionally a time to pat ourselves on the back. We trot out a few distinguished guests
and alumni, present degrees and awards, and listen to some message of goodwill. In an attempt to make up for
the shortcomings of Dr. Jim Martin at last Spring’s Convocation, President Spencer spoke about the very crucial issues of “The
Year in Review.”

It is important first to consider his audience: faculty, administration, alumni, parents, friends, and students. We can only assume his
remarks were directed at one or more of these groups. Dr. Spencer spoke in ordinary fashion, referring at times to
“all of us” and to the “enterprises in which we are all engaged.” His designs are clear, to make some
suggestions about the year we will spend together. At the start, he tells us that he will comment on three
matters in progress. I will try to treat those matters here in roughly the same manner that Dr. Spencer did.
Perhaps if there are any threads to his thinking, we can see how they weave together.

The first matter is coeducation. Since this is the first year of full-scale operation, some remarks over this area might
have been helpful. He says, “I have said many, many times that we did not go coeducational for the convenience
or pleasure of our men students.” If he actually has said this many times, and we assume for now that
he is telling the truth, I wonder in what context this comment arose. The very notion that coeducation was designed
for the convenience or pleasure of men students is highly offensive. Who would make such a claim? If it were
one of the more callous friends, faculty, alumni, or parents, Dr. Spencer would hardly throw this in the faces of
the other members of the group because of the risks involved.

Specific: “I have told faculty many times that they are mistaken. We did not go coeducational for the convenience or
pleasure of our men students.” The faculty, or any other of the groups involved, would appear quite foolish, and Dr.
Spencer would have a war on his hands. If he really has said this many times, there are only two
possibilities. Either he is given to talking to himself in a rhetorical fashion, or some other real persons proposed the
idea that he wishes to correct. But the only other group in his audience was students. Now perhaps many individual
students have thanked Dr. Spencer for making Davidson coeducational, presuming that this will enhance their convenience or pleasure. However, I
hardly think this is the case. I remember very clearly what Davidson was like prior to coeducation. Of all the
arguments students offered then, and there were several hundred, I never heard hedonism offered as the basis for coeducation.

Perhaps Dr. Spencer means students collectively, or “students as students” as he calls them. He may believe the desires for
pleasure and convenience to be a part of every student. And this may not be far from the mark. But
if students are so concerned with their immediate pleasure and convenience, how does one explain Wildcat football, or rugby, or
wrestling, or even the academic disciplines? Such rigorous activities are seldom of immediate pleasure or convenience. How then, are they
sustained? If Dr. Spencer means that male students as a group supported coeducation solely for pleasure or convenience, then clearly
he is wrong. Moreover, he is indulging in a curious form of sexual discrimination against males, and we have good
grounds to take offense at his remarks.

Dr. Spencer closes by saying: “I hope the novelty of their being here will soon wear off, and that we
will all begin to think of students, both men and women, simply as students.” But what does it mean to
think of students as “students”? Literally, it has no force. It is the same as saying, “we think of men
as men.” It tells us nothing about how to think of students, or what students are. Only by giving some
additional terms can we clear the air. I would suggest that we sympathetically think of others, and especially of students,
as “human beings.” Additional options are for thinking of students as “animals,” “sources of income,” “alpha-numbers,” and the like. If
there is some commonly shared notion of “students as students,” then Dr. Spencer should put it forth. If it is
this notion, however, that creates predicaments similar to the “pleasure and convenience” of coeducation, then Dr. Spencer should change his
way of thinking.

The President then moves to matters of campus governance. In one breath he says he will not present any plan
whose major thrust the faculty opposes. In the next breath, though, he notes his personal support of the college assembly,
a plan which the faculty has vigorously opposed for two years. Both students and faculty value candor and honesty. One
thing neither group tolerates, though, is the practice of speaking out of both sides of one’s mouth. The Davidson community
will not sit still for shenanigans of this sort.

I have only a little space left, so I will pass over the third major area, that of Christian commitment,
in order to look at a smaller, but still crucial area. 1973 is the year of financial pinch. Davidson did
very well, though, operating well within its budget with increased income from outside sources. In looking ahead, though, Dr. Spencer
tells us that “with no increase in tuition and no in-crease in enrollment, the two most obvious sources of income
are automatically cut off.” Look at whom he picks as the most obvious sources of additional income. Students. Through increased
numbers and tuition. This is not as it should be. Dr. Spencer disagrees at this point with Vice-President for Finance
and Development C. David Cornell, who publicly terms large gifts such as those by the Foundation as the “life blood”
of the College. It is equally obvious that additional income flows from capital and annual gifts. There is no clear
reason to pick the parents’ pocketbook.

The results of this speech will be long in developing. It is wrong to think that Dr. Spencer represents any
other viewpoint than his own. His own thoughts, though, are difficult to follow. He takes a stand clearly at odds
with that of his faculty, while saying this is not what he will do. He tells us to think of
students as students without any indication of just what they might be. And it seems he has heard some unpleasant
things about coeducation that he wishes to dispel.

Some people try to find a grand scheme for Davidson in this speech. Some areas are well thought out and
clearly stated. As President, Dr. Spencer has the responsibility to suggest policy for Davidson. Our responsibility is to seriously consider
what he has said. At times he makes promises, especially in regard to governance, athletics, and salaries, that he will
have difficulty making stick. I am discouraged that Dr. Spencer gives us so little sound material to work with. But
I believe, as Hemingway said, that we must get our work done. As Todd Eades observed in this space last
week, Davidson’s essential process is advocacy and compromise. I fear, though, that Dr. Spencer’s message will cause bad feelings for
some time to come. Perhaps the suggestions he presents can serve as the first grist in Davidson's great mill of
compromise. Grinding it up and sifting through the results will take all of this year and a few more. It
will be interesting to see the finished product.

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN

Davidson YM-YWCA: A Testimony and Plea
By DANIEL D. RHODES
Professor of Religion

For the past two years, it has been my responsibility and my privilege to serve as a faculty advisor to
the “Y” cabinet. In an informal way, I would like to share with you what I have learned about the
functions and hopes of this student organization.

Over the years, more than a third of Davidson’s students have participated actively in the varied programs aided or sponsored
by the “Y”. One of the most rewarding services has been the STEP tutorial activity. Each year about seventy-five students
have aided a like number of community children on a one-to-one basis who have needed companionship and academic assistance.

In like manner, the “Y” has helped to provide student manpower (and woman power) for ongoing community ventures sponsored by
other organizations, e.g., scouting and the North Mecklenburg YMCA. In such a spirit of cooperation, the “Y” has recently published
a handbook available to all students outlining the opportunities for volunteer service in Mecklenburg County.

Last year the most dramatic activity of the “Y” was to get the railway depot renovated for community use. Even
without an overall policy and program for the depot, community children enjoyed square dancing, movies, crafts, and meetings. For the
most activity, swimming, the groups would meet at the depot, go to the pool, and return there after the outing.
This fall a committee involving all of the community has begun work on policy and program for the depot. This
will ensure the finest use of the facility.

Last spring, because of student requests, the “Y” sponsored weekly worship services at the College Union. Ordinarily, however, the “Y”
keeps in touch with the various religious groups that flourish on campus and renders whatever assistance it can. In like
fashion, the “Y” aided financially and otherwise in presenting last year’s symposium on penology. It will continue to cooperate with
such ventures in the future.

This year should be a bright one for the “Y”. Rush Otey, the new minister to students, has agreed to
serve as a co-advisor to the cabinet. He has already gone to work. Without any doubt, his enthusiasm, organizational ability,
and new ideas will strengthen, enlarge, and focus the overall program of the “Y”. We are glad that Rush, Lilith,
and Benjamin are in our midst.

I think you can feel my enthusiasm for the “Y” and what it seeks to do. But with the members
of the cabinet, I find working with the “Y” a frustrating thing. There is seldom enough volunteer student personnel to
render the services or carry out the programs that are needed. Thus, on occasion, requests for assistance cannot be honored
or a few students find themselves with more time than they can afford. Right now there are requests for students
to help in the day care center and in youth groups of nearby churches. Won't you get involved?

The additional point of frustration is our lack of money. Last year we went “all out” to renovate the depot.
It cost $16,000. Approximately $11,000 has been paid; but we still owe $5,000. Many aspects of our program cost some
money. And we are trying to help one student through college. The “Y” operates entirely on voluntary contributions. Have you
given all that you can af-
