% 10 a.m. Movies: "Chartres Cathedral Morrison Room % % & Visions of Light Gothic Stained Glass" 8 p.m. Open
Bar 8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: "Bullitt"

= Saturday, September 29 8 p.m. Open Bar

= Sunday, September 30 3 p.m. Opening of Juan Logan: Sculpture and Drawing 5 p.m. Davidson College Wind Ensemble Outdoor
Concert

= Monday, October 1 10 a.m. Davidson Cunningham Room Photographers Association 10 a.m. U.S. Marine Corps Martin Room 4 p.m.
Piedmont Lecture: Morrison Room Louis Rubin, Literature 7 p.m. French Film: Love Auditorium "Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme" 10 p.m. SGA Grievance
Cunningham Room Committee 10 p.m. Open End: Freshman Morrison Room Senator Candidates

= Tuesday, October 2 8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: "Bullitt" Rathskeller Love Auditorium Love Auditorium Rathskeller Fine Arts Building
Fine Arts Quadrangle 10 a.m. Any Questions? Spencer Morrison Room 10 a.m. Marine Corps Martin Room 7 p.m. Worship Service
Church Chancel 8:15 p.m. Drama Film: Hodson Hall "Ballets of Romeo and Juliet"

= Wednesday, October 3 10 a.m. Lakeside Studios 7:30 p.m. Discussion: Limits to Growth

= Thursday, October 4 Fine Arts Building Grey House Chambers Banquet Hall Phi Hall Grey House 10 a.m. Coffee &
Cokes 7 p.m. Catholic Liturgy 7:30 p.m. Paul Listin: "Theoretical Limits of New State Entrances & Growth in International Political
Systems" 8:15 p.m. Artist Series: The Eleo Love Auditorium Pomare Dance Company

= Friday, October 5

= Saturday, October 6 11 a.m. Wildcat Club Annual Meeting Concert: "Muddy Waters" Homecoming Weekend 8 p.m. Concert: "Proposition" Love
Auditorium Morrison Room Love Auditorium

By MARK RABIL Staff Writer

On Sept. 13, the U.S. Office of Education notified the College that it has been made the recipient of a
$25,000 Planning Grant. According to Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, "These funds will enable us to explore
the possibilities of a cooperative education program for economically disadvantaged students and to explore the coordination of placement, vocational counseling,
Career/Service, and summer internships." Director of Career/Service, Randall R. Kincaid Jr. will be responsible for overseeing the planning, and will
be working very closely with Director of the Student Counseling Service William B. Hight Jr. Kincaid said that "the planning
program will include consultation with all elements of the college community and if it appears there is a need for
additional vocational services then some of the money can be used to implement the program." He noted that students will
be an integral part of the planning program, since they are the ones who can tell if they feel more
vocational services are needed. Kincaid said, "What we need to do is to build on the strong base services." The
base Davidson already has is composed of the four Pre-professional committees (Medical, Law, Ministerial, and, now this year, Managerial), the
Student Counseling Service, the Union's Placement program, and other activities, such as faculty advisors who aid students in making career
decisions. If there is to be any implementation of the funds after...

Governance Considered (Continued from page 1)

The Faculty has primary responsibility in two areas: Educational Policy and Admissions. The other three areas are the primary responsibility
of the President. Advisory Councils in these areas have the same powers of review as in Model I, but their
composition differs. The President's Council on Fiscal, Personnel, and Development Affairs is composed of the Faculty and SGA Budget Conference
committees. The Advisory Councils on athletics and campus life are formed by the College Conference.

... Arts Crowded (Continued from page 7)

Even the music department, which holds the largest amount of space in Cunningham...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

is feeling the space squeeze. “The biggest areas of concern are our classroom spaces,” declared Professor of Music Wilmer Welsh.
“We have reached the absolute limit in terms of seating space. We've gone from around 22 students to 50 in
music appreciation class last year,” he explained. With the increasing number of students taking music courses, Welsh pointed out that
the number of listening devices, such as tapes, records, and cassettes has also increased, necessitating a larger area to absorb
the overflow. Considering these and other problems of limited facilities, the question was raised as to whether the fine arts
at Davidson was taking a back seat to the other departments in the college in its requests. Replied Welsh, “I
don’t think so. Anything that we ever asked for in the past that was reasonable, we received.” Jackson, however, has
a different attitude as to how the arts are received at Davidson: “For all the time and the hell of
a lot of money that goes into the Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition, I'd be surprised if 10 percent
of the college ever came to see it.”

Twice during each school year, the College Conference will discuss matters of general college concern in a public meeting. The
Conference also organizes itself into five advisory councils to the President on Student Conduct, Campus Life, Athletics, Religious Life, and
Co-curricular activities. Thus, the governing bodies are the Faculty, the College Conference, and the SGA Senate. Students have limited participation
by membership of Faculty committees and representation on the College Conference, but no prescribed role for Senate action. Communication between
Faculty and Trustees is emphasized. The office of Faculty Chairman pro-tempore is comparable to the present office of SGA President
in general responsibilities and duties. Once more the fact needs to be stated, that Model I and Model II are,
in both systemic and specific concerns, for discussion only.

From the Office of Education, the planning will be supervised by the Student Counseling Service. The college submitted an application
for the funds, with a proposal written by Kincaid and Professor of Psychology John D. Kelton, to the Office of
Education last fall. Some of the various reasons cited for the year-long delay were hold-ups and, strangely enough, President Nixon’s
veto of a bill cutting off funds to Cambodia. At any rate, the Office of Education received the funds in
August and Davidson was notified of the grant in mid-September.

Senators Elected (Continued from page 2)

He further noted that upperclassmen parties could be either open or closed to the public. Appearing before the Senate with
a request for funds was Frank Farmer, leader of APO, the national service fraternity. He indicated that APO activities other
than the bookstore had “eaten up” funds. APO now has $107 from last year and can expect to make $125
this term, Farmer said. He added that APO has some $300 of books on the shelves. Finally, Senator Vince Rabil
reported on the Student Conduct Council. He related that a new statement on plagiarism has been added to the governance
manual. Rabil also noted that in a meeting with Will Terry, Dean of Students, Terry expressed concern about students taking
food from Slater food service without paying. Terry suggested the Council do something before “the idea that it’s O.K. to
take food from Slater is worked into the fiber of the student body.”

DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION Authorized Dealer

THE SHOP Electronics Unlimited 173 N. Main St. 663-4513 Mooresville, N.C.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS Hours: 9-7 — Wed. 9-12. — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30 Phone 892-0208 Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main
St. Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

hiking boots camping boots backpacking boots mountaineering boots and in-around-campus-or-anywhere Davidson Students, Use Your Automatic Charge Account

dunham John Meck & Son Mooresville

First Union National. Davidson
