Eight November 30, 1973 The Davidsonian

Cagers Seeking Top Twenty Ranking
By John Stenner

"I think this could be the best team ever at Davidson," said head coach Terry Holland when assessing the basketball
team's potential. The Cats are certainly the most experienced team in the Southern Conference this year as only one starter
was lost from last year’s 18-9 squad. Holland pointed out that last year’s squad could have easily been a 21-6
team as three of the team’s losses came on missed free throws in the last minute.

Holland has reason to be optimistic even though the Cats don't have an established star this season. "We don't have
an All-American this year, but our first seven men are so close to each other in ability that we should
be able to beat just about any of the teams we play," Holland said.

Holland feels that the Cats will be able to win with their bench strength this year, as the team has
six players who have started at one time or another. The team plans to employ a running game this year
in order to force the opposition to substitute freely. "If we went with our starting five, then we probably wouldn't
win that many games, but if we can force the tempo to pick up, then we think that our sixth,
seventh, and eighth men will be able to beat the other team’s sixth, seventh, and eighth men," Holland explained.

The team opens against Wofford Monday in Johnston Gym. Prior to the opener, they will play the Australian National team
in a tune-up tonight. Holland named Mike Sorrentino, John Falconi, Larry Horowitz, Greg Dunn, and Sheldon Parker as the starting
five for next Monday’s game against Wofford. Eppa Rixey, Paul Wagner, Jay Powell, and T. J. Pecorak will be used
in reserve and should see a lot of playing time. "Right now any one of those nine players could start
for us with the exception of T.J.," said Holland. Pecorak, a starter all last year, has been injured during much
of the pre-season practices with a bruised heel and pulled hamstring. Holland expects him to take over a starting position
as soon as he is able, hopefully within the next week.

The Cats will also use the same defense as last year, he said. "We'll be in a man-to-man."

Aussies Visit Cats In Classic Rematch
By Gordon Widenhouse
Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcats will get their first test in their upcoming basketball season this evening when the Australian Olympic team
comes to Johnston Gym. Head coach Terry Holland and his heavily experienced squad will be out to avenge a previous
94-60 thrashing that this same Aussie club gave them during their tour of Australia this past summer.

The Kangaroos, coached by Lindsey Gaze, finished ninth in the 1972 Olympics at Munich, Germany. Their 1973 record before they
began their tour of the United States was 4-0. Leading the Aussies in this week's event will be Ian Watson,
a 6-0 guard. Last season he paced the Kangaroos in the playmaking department. He averaged 13 points and six assists
per contest. His speed and quick hands will be a key.asset in offsetting a probable pressing defense by the Cats.
At the other backcourt slot will be Bruce Case. Having good height for a guard at 6-3, he has the
abilities which make a top-notch guard. In the State championship last season, he averaged 20 points per contest. In the
front court, the Aussies will most likely go with Paul Franke at one forward position. His 6-8 frame gives him
excellent shooting range inside. He is also an excellent shooter from the outside with a unique ability to be both
a guard and a front court man. Tony Barnett, who has good height for a swing man at 6-6, averaged
15 points per game during championship competition last season. The center position is up for grabs. Most likely it will
go to Ray Tomlinson. Despite being only 6-6, he usually draws the defensive assignment opposite the opposing center. He has
the advantage of experience (See AUSSIES, page 11).

Christmas best. Defense about 50 percent of the time, a zone about 30 percent, and pressing 20 percent,” Holland said.
“We may use the press a little more this year because I think we'll be a stronger pressing team than
last year.” Holland feels that the team is in the best physical shape that it has ever been in and
that this could be the deciding factor in some of the early games. The team's major objectives this season will
be to win 20 games, win the Southern Conference regular season title, the conference tournament, and achieve a ranking in
the top 20 teams in the nation. Davidson's biggest threats in the conference will be Furman and Richmond according to
Holland. “The Brown and St. John’s games will be a good test for getting into the top 20,” Holland said.
“Both games are early in the season and both teams are in a similar position as we are; the winner
of the games will probably get some national recognition.” The Cats face a particularly rough schedule this year, playing two
teams already picked for the top 10 in the nation. The games against North Carolina State and Notre Dame will
both be on the road as well. “As we've toughened up our schedule, it’s becoming harder to get a winning
streak of seven or eight games going. If we win some of our big games early in the season, then
we should be able to build up some momentum,” Holland said.

DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION
Authorized Dealer
THE SHOP
Electronics Unlimited
173 N. Main St.
663-4513
Mooresville, N.C.

A Christmas Shared
Good things are even better when shared with a friend. This year share the joy of Christmas with a special
card from Hallmark. They help you share.
The Village Store
Davidson, N.C.
—Hallmark.

(Staff photo by Goodman)
THE SAVING TOUCH
Jay Powell, sophomore point man for the Cats basketball team, saves the ball in a recent practice session. The Cats
open their campaign on December 3 against Wofford in Johnston Gym at 8:15 p.m.

Homeworkers. Earn $60 weekly addressing envelopes. Rush 25¢ to Gemco, POB 21244 X, Indianapolis, Ind. 46221.

The Red Hanger
LUCK’s Elephant Barn
115 N. Main St.
Box 2408
892-7561
