Berry Captures Crown, Davidson Finishes 8th
By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Berry College walked away with team honors at the 14th Annual Davidson Relays held last Saturday. Berry had 79 points
to runner-up West Georgia's 55. Third place was taken by Wake Forest with 49. Other teams competing were Appalachian 47,
Western Carolina 34, High Point 27, Catawba 20, Davidson 17, Cumberland 15, Sewanee 11, Carson-Newman 9½, Emory 6, Wofford 2,
and Campbell 0.

Berry had six first places and three seconds in the 17 events which were held. A total of eight track
records were set in the meet. The records came in the six-mile run, 100-yard dash, 120 high hurdles, high jump,
long jump, 440-yard relay, triple jump, and two-mile relay.

Head Track Coach Sterling Martin was pleased with Davidson's eighth-place finish. "The team as a whole ran fairly well," commented
Martin, adding that, "We didn't expect to score more points than last year so we really weren't too disappointed at
all. Overall it was a pretty good meet," said Martin. "It was created for the small schools with unsubsidized teams
in mind, but with the exception of Davidson there just isn’t any such animal around anymore."

Martin singled out several performances by the team in the relays. "Steve Shankweiler threw the shot pretty well in taking
third place," noted Martin. The other weight man singled out by Martin was Dave Crumpler, who took second place in
the discus. "Dave did a good job and was throwing well," said Martin. "He might have taken first, but he
has been bothered by a badly pulled back lately."

Cane Van Meter got fourth in the pole vault; perhaps he could've gone a little higher but it was still
a good effort. "Both Woody and I were pleased," said Martin.

Martin saved his highest praise, however, for Ricky Bell and Greg Love. "Ricky turned in a 1:58 half mile for
us in the distance medley, the fastest time we've had this year," said Martin. "Greg Love took second place in
the 120 high hurdles and ran very well," Martin said. "If Greg continues to improve, then I think he'll have
a good shot at placing in the conference meet," added Martin.

Martin did note that he was disappointed with several of the performances turned in by the Cats. "Our 440 relay
team disappointed me a little bit, but Mark Conners, who runs anchor, had a pretty bad muscle pull," said Martin.
"Eppa Rixey did well in the high jump, but he ran into some pretty heavy traffic and didn't place," explained
Martin.

Martin again pointed out that he was pleased with the team's performance in the meet. "We really didn't expect to
do as well as last year especially because of the competition which was about as good as you'll find in
the area," said Martin.

On Monday the track team was edged out, 74-71, by Wake Forest in what Martin felt was the team's best
performance of the year. "After we saw Wake in the relays we didn't feel that we could stay with them
in a dual meet," he said.came down to the last event, the mile relay, with Davidson leading 71-69. Wake Forest
won the race and the five points were enough to give them the victory. "It was our best mile relay
of the year and if Mark Conners hadn't been hurt, I think we could've won," Martin commented. "As it was,
we only lost by 10 yards or so," he added. Ricky Bell was the Cat's outstanding performer in the meet
with a double win in the mile and three mile. Both times were the team’s fastest this year. Bell won
the mile in a time of 4:28 which pleased Martin greatly. Steve Peaco set a school record finishing second in
the 440 intermediate hurdles. The team's performance gave Martin cause for optimism concerning this Saturday's dual meet with a strong
Citadel team. "After the way they came out and ran against Wake Forest, I think the team has a good
chance of beating The Citadel. At any rate, I know we'll be right with them all the way," he noted.

Staff Photo by Goodman

UP AND OVER
Bob Trumbo runs the hurdles for Davidson.

NEW METHOD LAUNDRY AND CLEANING
"We Rent Tux"
Cornelius, N. C.
Phone 892-8064

ERRORIT
AT YOUR BOOKSTORE

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7. — Wed. 9-12, — Sun. 9:30-10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

The Davidsonian April 20, 1973 Page Nine

(Staff photo by Goodman)

HEAVE HO
Steve Shankweiler sends the shot flying.

Sailors Take Third In SASA Tourney
By JOHN McELVEEN
Staff Writer

Davidson sailors took third place out of a field of eight schools that participated in the South Atlantic Sailing Association
Championships, held at Clemson last weekend. Although Clemson had been favored to win, it was The Citadel that captured the
number one position. "It was unusual that The Citadel won at Clemson. Clemson looked stronger earlier in the season and
the previous regattas," Davidson Commodore Daryl Douglas commented. All the races were sailed Saturday in light to moderate air. "The
wind, as we expected, was light and variable. For example, the last race started at 5:15, then the wind died
down and it wasn't until 7:30 that the race was over. They literally sat in the boats and drifted," Douglas
commented.

When the regatta was over, Bill Rembald of Clemson had the low point skipper in the B-division. Douglas was the
5th place skipper in A-division for Davidson, and Jimmy Hunter tied for 3rd place in the B-division. Due to last
Fall's performance, the sailing team earned the right to participate at Ohio in the Inter-sectionals this weekend. Douglas will be
sailing in A-division with Craig Yoder crewing. Hunter will skipper in B-division with Pope Mosley as his crew. "We're interested,"
said Douglas, "to see how well we'll stack up against other conferences."

Rent Furniture From METROLEASE

Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N. C.

12 Oz. — $3.25
Friday - Saturday 5-10
Mooresville USDA Choice Sirloin
663-2832
Intersection of 21 at 115
LUNCH
Tuesday - Friday
Sunday Buffet 11-2
11-2
