Che Davidsonian

WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

ALEC HOON, Editor-in-Chief
WHIT WHITWORTH, Business Manager

PAGE FOUR APRIL 13, 1974

Plea For Reason

What came out more than anything else at the Open End on subsidized football Tuesday night was that the issue
is a very emotional one, in which battle lines are drawn. It brings back to mind the incredible fervor and
emotionality of the fraternity issue two-three years ago. And in that situation, as in this one, excessive emotional feelings can
only serve to cloud the issues. Suddenly those involved are pitted against one another in a totally irrational fashion, and
what becomes important is winning the bitter personal battle of words, rather than in deciding the fate of subsidized football.
All parties are guilty to some extent. Admittedly, it is hard to divorce personalities from the debate, but nevertheless, they
should not become the focus. At this particular Open End, people often seemed more anxious to heap abuse on those
of opposite feelings than they did to express their own viewpoints. People even tonight here. What is at stake is
whether this college can continue to support football and basketball, and continue to lose money. Were the harm, I believe,
stand on subsidized athletics up.

As I see it, there are two key issues at hand. First, the financial burden that subsidized athletics places on
the college. Second, the question of whether the benefits of these programs justify their costs. Those opposed to football mentioned
the need to present a fair and balanced budget. The sports editor's article in the February issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN
looked at this issue. The TSG must present a balanced budget or face the consequences. To do this, they must
either reduce the scope of the sports program or operate at a deficit. We can no longer justify the expense
of running a deficit. Presenting a balanced budget is essential. After the returns appear, a decision must be made so
that the program does not lose its funding in the future. This does not necessarily mean the end of the
sport here. We could hope that the probation period of three years will prove its worth. If improvements are made
within this period, then great changes are possible and very likely, including the complete end of subsidized athletics.

Regarding basketball, it is also essential to improve their budget situation. However, more than anything else, I urge everyone to
consider the issue carefully and approach it with reason. Consider carefully and would appreciate so that you can get the
best-cooked solution.

Housing Crisis

Springing student enrollment in the face of a static number of dormitory outlets will shortly create a crisis in student
housing. The Housing Committee's decision to postpone completion of new facilities until the fall of 1975 is probably justified, but
it should not presage a continuing delay in constructing new buildings that will be outstripped by a rising population. The
Housing Committee should act immediately to initiate the lengthy series of architectural consultations that will precede actual construction on the
new buildings. If there is a temporary delay in housing Davidson's increased enrollment, the College should commit itself to the
housing of students as a first priority. Although offering college-owned housing for the rental of transient faculty members has been
a convenient and attractive option in the past, it may be necessary to move students into these prime locations in
the near future. It is not too early to begin lapsing the leases of families in college-owned housing so that
they may have adequate time to secure suitable housing in Mooresville, Cornelius, or other neighboring towns. For now, the location
of students adjacent to the campus should be a paramount responsibility to college officials.

Honorable

We applaud the faculty's vote—small though the margin may have been—in support of a three-year probation period for the Honors
College. Hopefully, our confidence that they will be able quickly to resolve any differences and reunify will not be disappointed.
We similarly congratulate and commend the diligent petition work of the Committee for Continuing the Honors College and the student
body's prudent support. Certainly, mistakes have been made in the first years of the Honors College's operation. Just as certainly,
there still remain numerous shortcomings. But is there a perfect department in the regular college prepared to throw the first
stone? The Honors College just might prove to be the best way to stimulate number academics at Davidson. After three
years, we will take another look.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Jih scrutinize each: TP.) tk ok th tad MILES WARD ——a Did Davidson Male Change This Year? And they said
Write something scathing. Ludo And that today was the right day and time. Ang looking around for someone to scourge
and say, her face flow into her eyes and say, local flowerhood in its spring freshness. And tried to describe
this of women. It was only one year ago when the hubbub here was trying coeducation on for size. It
was decided then that girls would make our pristine tree and lakeness here even more natural perhaps. Soon it drifted
into early sultry September. The first generation unloaded, sized up from a distance like cattle on the hoof. We ‘the
Davidson male crystallized our categorical judgment. In imagination we nec 2.0ec this Nl. beyond recognition. Tso a cheers SETH “wares
friendship. A good ring perhaps a good Tere WG \ GCabulalies. After young girlhood passed us. Did we change? Was
this more natural? This is subtitled: “How To Put Classroom Learning into use within the Walls.” Old Hegel had a
magnified conception of women, quite rightly so with his models in Greek drama. And I sought the LETTER TO THE
EDITOR concrete universal here. Our own Davidson idea is different. The corporate conception of womanhood is early middle age, stuffed
shirt and sexually threatened. After a year we can no more easily relate to women than to foreign students or
murderers or Presidents. A la Davidson, I saw two women walk into a dorm today. Fifteen students in one room
saw them walk by the door, searching out a room number. Frozen from the neck down, eyes meeting only the
comfort of other male eyes, no one spoke. It was blatant womanhood, and young male imaginations flirted with fantasies of
bedrooms and acrobatic sex. But no one bothered to speak at a more human level. Had the strangers been men,
their reception would be quite different. Some must feel the embarrassment of being here. And to be honest, there are
more exciting, storied parts of the personality game which now came out. But in our drama of changing rules, we
have failed to learn our parts. The words have been changed again. Have faith, women, we still don't know anything
about blacks.

Lamas Study Criticized

To the Editor:

I feel compelled to demand equal time on the Pharmacy issue as presented last week in Andrew Lamas’ study. He
gave information that was false, biased, and incomplete. He was wrong about the State Board of Pharmacy and the North
Carolina Pharmaceutical Association. No monopoly of independent interests really exists when well over half the members of the N.C. Pharmaceutical
Association are chain store pharmacists. It is possible in the present organization for chain store interests to be represented on
the State Board. Last summer a pharmacist from REVCO, a chain store, ran for the Board and only missed election
by a few votes. Pharmacy is a profession. Lamas failed to recognize this in his study. The “gross immorality” clause
refers to the code of ethics which every profession has. Advertising of prescription drugs and their prices is contrary to
this code because it encourages self-medication. Prescription drugs are not commodities like meat, bread, or clothes and cannot be considered
as such. Independent stores do not really clear that much more profit than chain stores when these factors are taken
into account: Independent pharmacies try to purchase from companies that have a reputation for quality, and therefore their wholesale prices
are higher. Smaller independent pharmacies cannot purchase in the quantities that larger chains do, and he never demonstrated a 2000
percent mark up in prices because we do not set the retail level. The examples he gave of inequities in
practices are presently illegal or against the code of ethics and pharmacists caught at these practices will lose their license.
The money-making schemes in regard to Medicaid are especially illegal, and pharmacists found doing this should be reported. Lamas was
completely wrong when he said pharmacy students cannot do internships in chain stores. Pharmacy internships may be performed in independent,
chain, or hospital pharmacies. Medical colleges do teach courses in pharmacology, and quite good courses at that, but doctors do
need professional pharmacists to advise them as new drugs are developed. I agree with Lamas that the Food and Drug
Administration could clear up most of the “abnormalities” with increased staffing and inspection, but he is clearly wrong in presenting
the view that a pharmaceutical monopoly exists in the retail drug business in favor of the independent drug stores when
in fact the chain stores are buying out more and more independent pharmacies who are now on the verge of
extinction. Finally, if Lamas had studied the full range of drugs offered in pharmacies, he would have found that chain
drug stores only cut prices on a few popular prescription drugs, just enough to give a discount image, and then
charge comparable prices to independent pharmacies for the 99 percent not discounted.

Vince Rabil '75
Davidson College
