Page Twelve February 16, 1973 The Davidsonian

Monday, February 19
7 p.m. Catholic Mass
7:30 p.m. Committee on Professional Affairs will meet with interested students
8:15 p.m. Juno and the Paycock
9 p.m. American Guild of College Organists Concert
9:45 p.m. Christian Fellowship Martin Room

Tuesday, February 20
10 a.m. Any Questions? Dr. Spencer Ovens Room
3:30 p.m. Sophomore Testing Chambers Banquet Hall

Wednesday, February 21
2:30 p.m. Hall Counselor's Test Chambers Banquet Hall
7:30 p.m. Juno and the Paycock Hodson Hall

Thursday, February 22
Four Candidates Interviewed For Watson Foundation Funds
By TOM BRUCE Associate Editor

Daniel L. Arnaud, director of the Watson Foundation, was at Davidson this week to interview four Davidson seniors who are
candidates for the $6000 fellowships which the foundation awards. “We will award 70 fellowships this year from a field of
140 candidates. We don't have any quota system, though, so it is possible for all the candidates from a given
school to win,” Arnaud explained.

The fellowships are for a year of travel and independent study, custom-fitted for each winner. Ordinarily, the award is not
intended to be used as tuition for a year of study in a foreign university, so the projects can be
as unconventional and independent as individual needs dictate. George Draughon, one of last year’s recipients, is traveling in Europe currently,
studying mime and visual theatre. I heard recently that he has met Charlie Chaplin,” Arnaud said. “Another successful project was
undertaken by a girl who looked at different aspects of prejudice in Northern Ireland and in South Africa,” he said.

Arnaud estimated that 30 percent of the fellowships are awarded to women candidates, and he said that minority awards are
earned by about 20 percent of the applicants. “Davidson has fared quite well in this program since its inception in
1969, with 10 seniors receiving the fellowships. This is above average in all respects,” Arnaud stated. “The very fact of
having been nominated is something of merit. What is involved is not so much winners and losers, but a matter
of degree,” said Arnaud.

At the conclusion of the year of travel, a report on the project is submitted to the Watson Foundation. “This
is not intended to be a magnum opus. It need not be in term paper form, but can be a
sheaf of poetry, a portfolio of photographs with...

Calendar Approved (Continued from Page 1)
eliminated,” “We're working very intensely. The breaks make it healthier all the way around,” she added. Kemp did go on
to say that she was very sympathetic to the problems that the science departments might have if experimentation was interrupted
by the split in the winter term. Carroll indicated that problems would be more likely in the biology laboratories than
in the chemistry ones. “As far as the chemistry courses I teach are concerned, there would be no problem,” he
said. “I can't think of any chemistry courses where the labs would be disrupted. Overall I think this calendar has
a lot of advantages over the first one,” Carroll said. David C. Grant, professor of biology, disagreed. “If we must
have a split winter term, this is a good calendar.”but I loathe the split. A split, no matter where it
comes from, hurts somebody. It hurts the scheduling of reviews and may force professors to change the sequence of material."
Grant is particularly concerned about biological experiments dealing with living systems. “There can be no 10-week experiments during the split
winter term. The split limits the flexibility. “The calendar meets almost all of the conveniences of the students,” Grant said.
“I hope that it is not so convenient that we forget about the academic cost.”

Rising Tuition Seen As Factor In Future Application Level

By TOM AINSWORTH
Contributing Editor

In response to the added tuition increase due to go into effect in the 1973-74 academic year, Director of Admissions
H. Edmunds White stated that “the cost of Davidson next year will be an important factor for people who are
considering applying here.” He said, “Private colleges in general, on a great majority, are not, in terms of admissions of
students, in as strong a position as they were five or eight years ago.” He pointed to the overall cost
of a private institution compared to a public one, and the fact that the college-age population has remained relatively stable
while places for them in colleges and universities have grown tremendously over the past few years.

When asked if additional tuition increases would eventually cause a loss in money due to a lesser number of students
returning to higher costs, White said that he couldn't see Davidson getting to that point in the near future. “It
depends on whether it occurs due to empty beds or loss of selectivity,” explained White. “Selectivity is a very important
loss for a college.” He still places Davidson as being in the nearly ultraselective group. “Some very capable people are
going to have to decide if the added increase of tuition is worth it, however,” White commented. To keep and
get the quality student at Davidson, White said, “Private institutions fall under three groups today: those that are still ultraselective,
others that have lost some of their selectivity privilege but are still receiving sufficient money, and those that have unfilled
places from too high costs.”

“We are really not interested in a person's overall academic record. We are looking for people who have a bug
about something: microbiology, Irish poetry, or mental retardation. We will not penalize a Chemistry major because his grade point average
has suffered because of a course in French literature. We really want to see a demonstration of a long-term obsession
with the material under consideration,” explained Arnaud. Arnaud will talk with the 140 candidates for the awards from the 35
schools that participate in the program.

The final selection of the fellows will rest with a committee which will discuss each applicant and his proposal for
the year abroad.

HAPPY MIDWINTERS! Bring your date to browse. Frisbees, Kites, Gifts, Cards, And Lots Of Etc.
