Vol. LXII, No. Thirteen The Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Davidsonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students January 26, 1973

Phillips Triumphs In Presidency Race
Corlew Wins V-P Election; Earle To Become Union Head

By THOM NICOLL
Asst. Managing Editor

Wednesday's run-offs for the SGA elections resulted in narrow victories for presidential candidate Bo Phillips and vice-presidential candidate Bob Corlew. Phillips won over opponent Doug Brown by a vote of 315 to 275. Corlew defeated Jim Goodloe by 304 to 284 votes.

Phillips’ reaction to the news of his victory was that he was “happy and looking forward to the next year.” He named as his first priority “getting students more involved in governance, so that they can have more say on such matters as the calendar.” Corlew said that he was “very delighted” and that he wanted to thank all those who had helped him get elected, as well as his opponents for having conducted a race “we can all be proud of.”

In the other run-offs, Robert Vander Griend defeated Chris Allison for the office of Student Solicitor by 298 to 256 votes. Dave Bender and Jerry Godbehere were elected SGA Freshman Advisors by 426 votes to 177 for Gus Succop and Nancy Stanger.

On Tuesday, Robert Touchton and Scott Reid were elected WDAV station managers over Tim Patton and Tom Jones taking 64 percent of the vote. Touchton said that their first priority would be to “tighten up the format so that people can know what to expect at certain times.”

Joe Earle was elected President of the Union over Gray Robinson. Earle received 67 percent of the votes cast. Bonnie Henesy defeated Tom Bernhardt for the chairmanship of the Co-curricular Committee by only three votes. Bernhardt turned down the options of requesting a recount or a run-off. Bill Vaughn received over 70 percent of the vote for the position of Defense Advisor, defeating opponent Dan Thorne.

Elected to the Hearing Committee for the Class of 1974 were Gary Bressler, 28 percent; George Edwards, 18 percent; John Magee, 17 percent, and Dave Curtiss, 13 percent. Rising juniors elected to the Hearing Committee were Dubose Porter, 27 percent; Rick Deal, 21 percent, and Jim Jernigan, 18 percent.

Cheerleaders for the Class of 1976 will be Scott Lane, with 25 percent of the vote; Bobby Mendenhall, 26 percent, and Shaune Robertson, 19 percent.

Elections Board chairman Bob Corlew reported that 691 students or approximately 70 percent of the student body, voted Tuesday in the presidential race. Corlew said that the elections were more closely supervised than in the past, and that they were conducted smoothly.

By TOM BRUCE
Contributing Editor

Despite mounting student protest to next year’s proposed calendar, John M. Bevan, vice president for academic affairs, continued to support his calendar, stating that he had heard no argument that it was educationally unsound, only that it was inconvenient.

The Bevan calendar approved by the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC), calls for the winter and spring terms to convene after Christmas. Four Saturday classes, a small spring break, and a June 2 dismissal date have emerged as the main student targets for criticism. The SGA Senate has presented Bevan with its counter-calendar that remedies the alleged defects of Bevan’s calendar by splitting the winter term at the Christmas break.

CLASS OF 1976:

Class Senator Candidates

Elections for class senators will be held from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Tuesday. Polling places will be set up in the post office and in Chambers lobby. Candidates for each class are as follows:

CLASS OF 1974: Peter Celentano, Bob Cunningham, Gary Garvin, Dennis Heely, John Knox, Jim Paulson, Mitch Purvis, David Wall, Miles Ward and Whit Whitworth.

CLASS OF 1975: Skip Burton, Blain Butner, Jeff Chandler, Bill Clark, Rick Damewood, John Hornickel, David Melton, Vince Rabil and Steve Smith.

CLASS OF 1976: Steve Bell, Bruce Corser, John Guthrie, Jonathan Monroe, Duncan Moore, Michael Pappas, Bob Penny and Dan Thorp.Bills, shes *% THE WINNERS (Staff photo by Goodman) Corlew, Phillips smile over election returns.

Bevan Disputes Criticism Of Calendar, Calls FEC Version Educationally Sound

Bevan emphasized that he was not rejecting the Senate calendar outright, but was referring it to the EPC subcommittee on the calendar headed by David C. Grant, assistant professor of biology. “We chose a calendar that would answer educational needs, not one that was tailored to the football season or to the needs of summer jobs,” Bevan said. “We have found that some faculty members have valid complaints with a calendar that splits the winter term,” he added. “In the sciences and in psychology, certain experiments cannot be carried out if there are interruptions. Saturday classes are a necessity if we are to provide for the 50 class periods that some classes observe,” Bevan said. “These observations were expressed in a special survey circulated among the faculty and in the deliberations of the EPC and the FEC,” Bevan said. “We have tried several different calendar styles and we are trying to isolate the best possible one, educationally speaking. The calendar for next year deserves the same considerations and trial that the other styles have received,” he said.

When asked if sizeable student objection to the new calendar might prejudice the experiment and render it unsound educationally, Bevan answered, “This is true of anything new. Whenever you are trying to make a change, there are always a few persons dedicated to proving that it will not work.”

The student representation on the EPC hurriedly stated their support for the counter calendar proposed by the SGA Senate. “Anything can be changed at Davidson if a substantial number of students oppose it in the noisiest manner possible. Our problem seems to be that our student community is somnolent,” said Dick Clay. The other student member of the EPC, Doug Brown, was similarly determined to change the calendar. “This calendar is definitely unacceptable to a wide segment of the student body. I think that it should be remembered that last year’s calendar was changed after the administration had said that it was final.”

Grant's calendar subcommittee reiterated the need for student input into future deliberations about the issue. “We will be interested to consider student feeling about the desirability of certain calendars, and about the larger issue of the 3-3-3 system as opposed to the alternative systems,” said Grant. The EPC felt that the reasons to avoid a split winter term were so compelling that the possible disadvantages were outweighed. Grant added that the primary reasoning behind the design of the calendar was to further a plan that would be “educationally sound.”

At week’s end, it was expected that the issue of the calendar would be the first concentration of the new student government administration.

Senate To Examine Two Publications

By BOB HOWELL
Asst. Managing Editor

Debate over the future of the Quips & Cranks and the Wildcat Handbook was renewed this week as the SGA Senate surveyed student opinion on the two publications. “Rick Levi (beginning his second year as editor of the Wildcat Handbook) wanted to know the extent of student concern for the handbook,” said SGA President Ralph Peeples. “We also wanted to find out about the yearbook, so we drew up a simple set of questions.”

“I think it’s invaluable,” Levi said of the handbook, “but I’m concerned about student support. I ran because I was afraid no one else would if I didn’t.” “Everyone I've talked to says something like, ‘the yearbook’s pretty awful,’” observed the new editor of the Quips & Cranks, Jeff George, “but they still want one, a better one.”

Both Levi and George oppose a combination yearbook-handbook because it would necessitate limiting the scope of both publications. They also emphasized the need to continue the books.

(See SENATE, Page 12)

There will be a meeting Sunday night at 10:15 p.m. in the DAVIDSONIAN office for all students interested in working for the DAVIDSONIAN as a reporter, photographer, or on the business staff. No experience is necessary.