Six December 21, 1973 The Davidsonian

Exiled On Main Street: THE HUB

"Joe College is long gone; he existed as late as '68 or '70."

By JOE EARLE
Associate Editor

To someone first introduced to the insular world of Davidson College, the row of shops on Main Street can be little more than a long single building with a few odd signs breaking up the brick and wood facing. But after a few months in the dorms, a few of the storefronts -- the bank, the grocery, the drug store -- gain a bit of an individual personality; gradually a student finds a person or two behind those signs and gets a surface view of the town that surrounds and supports the college.

Few of those stores gain the individuality or student recognition that goes to The Hub. The old wagon wheel hanging between the new bank and Sherrill’s eternally changing football-cheer sign is a marker for one of the few places where students and town can cross paths daily.

The Hub is a funny kind of store. It is a bus station, an old-style fountain, a newsstand, a tobacco store. It has a touch of everything students use in their daily existence, but not a lot of anything.

The French Detective

Ralph Quackenbush, proprietor of The Hub, stands guard over Main Street every day. Like a French detective in an old movie, he looks out the front window puffing an old pipe and observing the rarely varied life on Main Street Davidson. Ralph has run The Hub for 12 years. From behind that big plate glass front he has seen a lot of Davidson amble by, and has caught a lot of the changes in the life of the school and the students. His merchant's-eye-view of students and his position as confidant-pal for a good number of them has given Ralph a unique and somewhat wry opinion of student tastes, attitudes, and the quality of life on the Davidson College campus.

"At one time, our big day was Saturday," he said, "back when they had Saturday classes. We couldn't keep up with it. That no longer exists, and it seems most guys go home Wednesday or Thursday."

At one time The Hub carried a good number of toilet articles -- soap, shaving cream, aftershave. "We had to stop selling a lot of that," Ralph said. "The Student Store sells soap now and most of the guys don't seem to shave anymore anyway."

Comic Books Big

"We still do quite a bit of business in magazines," he added. "We sell more comic books to students than to kids. We also sell more bubblegum to students." He said he had even sold one of The Hub’s famous girlie calendars to a coed.

But the biggest difference Ralph finds in the 1973 student is in the type of person who attends Davidson now, and the effects which the changes the College has gone through have had on the students. The two obvious changes he pointed out were the beginnings of coeducation and the disappearance of theold-style fraternities. "Joe College is long gone," he stated, "and he existed as late as '68 or '70. At one time the most important thing was which frat a guy belonged to. I never cared for that. Now that’s no longer the case—except for a few." "Back before they allowed drinking on campus, we did a big business in ‘half a glass of ginger ale’," he added. "You used to see students walking around drunk; now you don't."

Girls A Definite Plus

He said that coeducation was "the best thing that ever happened to Davidson, both the College and the town." "It makes the students stay around more and sure improves the scenery," he added.

Yankee Moved South

Before taking charge of The Hub, Ralph was a textile engineer in the plant that preceded Reeves Bros. He had been raised in Norwood, N.J., a small town in north Jersey, and liked the small-town way of life. When his company moved, he refused to transfer and started the Tastee-Freeze in Cornelius. He bought The Hub in 1961 and sold his shop in Cornelius in 1965. Ralph said he turned down the move back north because "it’s just a little worse now than it was then—wall-to-wall people."

"There’s a lot to do in Davidson when you’re married and have a family," he said. "I find Davidson very relaxed on the social side—my textile friends have cocktail parties every night, and that’s not the kind of life I want to live."

Instead of those cocktail parties, Ralph has found a place to work a bit and enjoy himself. He helped start and is president of the Davidson Community Players, a troupe of actors that includes several members of the faculty and their wives as well as non-college personnel. He also has time to work on his woodcraft hobby "as therapy" and plays with a recorder group.

But much of Ralph's life has to be centered around the operations of The Hub. He’s there every day, greeting regular student and faculty customers and supplying them with tobacco, cards, records, comic books, and, of course, food.

Ralph Knows 'Em All

Ralph figures he knows about 70 percent of the faculty socially, and a few others that come to The Hub. He says he has no idea how many students he has met or knows, but on an average morning you see quite a chunk of the student body wander in for breakfast, and he seems to know at least the first name of each. A lot of students never get farther into the town side of Davidson than the cramped booths of The Hub. Ralph Quackenbush may be the only official "townie" a good number of students know.

The Hub was the first place in Davidson I saw. It was the first place I went as a prospective student. It will likely be the last place I'll stop when I leave this town. For a lot of us, The Hub is the only part of the town of Davidson that seems real. It stands apart from that row of buildings.