... Will The Real Davidson everything from Presidents to (Continued From Page 5) pretensions of being otherwise: it colleges are packaged and sold like cereal. And there’s another mildly inappropriate, to put it twist to the admissions game. According to the profile of the Class of 1972, 85 percent of alumni sons who applied were accepted. Since such a large percentage were accepted, are we to conclude that they are the best qualified applicants? In that case, Davidson had better start beating the bushes for alumni sons-daughters to fill each freshman class “because they are such good applicants to begin with.”

Davidson has given up its claim to being different or unique and has a “strong heritage” in the “quest for truth.” For some time, most other colleges have had such public relations type pamphlets like “Why Choose Davidson?”, and I suppose Davidson is just catching up with the times where honesty and truth—two values that aren’t very marketable in this country today.

Friday, September 21
PARENT'S WEEKEND
10 a.m. Welcome Reception Chambers Court
11 a.m. Fall Convocation Love Auditorium
12:15 p.m. Convocation Chambers Banquet Hall
2:15 p.m. Panel: “After Davidson, What?” Perkins Auditorium
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: “The Wild Bunch” Love Auditorium

Saturday, September 22
11 a.m. Panel: “At Davidson, What?”
12:15 p.m. Luncheon Picnic on the Lawn
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: “The Wild Bunch” Love Auditorium

Monday, September 24
10 a.m. Freshman Assembly: The Social System Love Auditorium
10 a.m. Davidson Photographers Cunningham Room
8 p.m. Open Bar Rathskeller
8 p.m. Panel: “Thoughts on Genetic Counseling & Genetic Engineering” Love Auditorium
10 p.m. SGA Grievance Cunningham Room

Tuesday, September 25
10 a.m. Romanesque Art & Romanesque Painters’ Martin Room
7 p.m. Worship Service Church Chancel
8 p.m. Fine Film: “Jules & Jim” Love Auditorium

Davidson Grocery
FOR ALL YOUR GROCERY NEEDS
HOURS: 7 - 5:30 Mon. - Sat.
ONE BLOCK FROM THE COLLEGE

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
D JEWELERS & Watch Repair
Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N.C.

If you enroll,” we are told, “We intend to graduate you.” Is this a threat or a promise? The catalog deserves special attention, but for now, I only want to deal with one sentence on the inside back cover which states: “Davidson College is an equal opportunity employer.” Like all institutions, Davidson is apt...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

to claim things it is not. It is most definitely not an “equal Social System.” Davidson does not give faculty tenure to Jews, agnostics, or others who are not “active members of the church.” When one looks at the number of women, blacks, and Catholics in faculty or administrative positions, it is obvious that as a practical matter they do not have equal employment opportunity. Davidson is a Southern WASP institution, and its insular nature is trusted.

Thursday, September 27
10 a.m. Freshman Assembly: Love Auditorium
10 a.m. Coffee & Cakes: Chambers Dining Hall
7:30 p.m. Poetry Reading Program: Grey House
8 p.m. Open Bar: Rathskeller

Friday, September 28
10 a.m. Lecture: Morrison Room
8 p.m. Open Bar: Rathskeller

Saturday, September 29
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: “Bullitt”

Sunday, September 30
3 p.m. Opening of Juan Logan Sculpture & Drawing: Fine Arts Building
8 p.m. Davidson Wind Ensemble Concert: Fine Arts Quadrangle

Come by and see the new fall fashions at The Red Hanger, 115 N. Main St., Box 2408, Davidson, N.C. 892-7561

---

Spencer Speaks (Continued From Page 1)

Buford Price, Jr., professor of physics at the University of California at Berkeley, helped guide NASA's planning for analyzing the lunar samples, and he holds special awards for a new system of dating minerals and for an earlier diagnosis of some cancers with a superfine biological filter he devised.

Julian P. Price, a physician from Florence, South Carolina, will receive the Doctor of Humane Letters degree. Price has served as the Medical Director of the South Carolina Home for Crippled Children and as editor of The Journal of the South Carolina Medical Association. After the ceremony, a luncheon for seniors, parents, faculty, and friends of the college will be held in Chambers Banquet Hall. Parents will receive their tickets at the 10 a.m. welcome reception in the front plaza of Chambers. Seniors may pick up their luncheon tickets in the Dean of Student's office.

A collection of prize-winning and specially selected films presented at the annual New York Erotic Film Festival. The Official Judges included: Andy Warhol, Sylvia Miles, Terry Southern, Milos Forman, Xaveria Hollander, Holly Woodlawn, and Gore Vidal.

For your free copy, with no obligation, contact the local representative of: HERITAGE SECURITIES, INC., 746 N High St., Columbus, Ohio, associated with Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., Home Office Columbus, Ohio.

---

The Shop Electronics Unlimited, 173 N. Main St., Mooresville, N.C. 663-4513

Davidson Jewelers, 1615 Elizabeth Ave., Davidson, N.C. 28036, Phone 892-0569

Authorized Dealer of ANDY CORP.