Eleven

Byr Davidsonian October 19, 1973

IMAC Flickerballers Conclude

Initial Half Of 1973 Season

By CAPTAIN AMERICA
And
NO BUCKY

The first half of the season has ended in flickerball and the leagues have been divided into four new sections of six teams apiece, according to previous won-lost records.

Wrapping up last week's action, (as there were only 11 games due to all sorts of junk), on Thursday the Cleveland Indians “flew” past an earth-bounded PGD team, 32-24. Team spokesman Mark Rodgeman was heard to have mumbled something about “sitting downtown in a railway station”?

When asked to repeat his statement for posterity Rodge replied, “I don't know what I said, I guess I forget it already.”

Stop the press! People, lift your trumpets in rejoiceful hallelujahs! The ATO’s have won not one, but TWO flickerball games. The Zeroes found the light when they won their first game over lowly C-III (gobble) 33-20.

C-III and C-IV continue to show astonishing ineptitude. I doubt if those turkeys could chew gum and walk at the same time.

Later on Tuesday, the Turnovers zonked the hapless Altonna Aardvarks, 33-28, in the completion of their first back-to-back victories in anything since the Civil War.

The Aardvarks were the victims of forfeiture last Thursday, as PAX took one the easy way. Way to get your boys to the games, Wags.

The Boys from North Main introduced a new halftime drink: Tequilade. Obviously, it entered their systems rather quickly as the Gozinyas Plus also won a game. What the hell is going on around here! The Cleveland Indians could not show, as they were busy building a Stairway to Heaven.

S-IV protested an earlier game with the Tennis Bums as they lost a close one 14-13. Well, they replayed the game today. Final score was Bums 38, S-IV 25. I guess it's rather obvious that they should've stuck to the first one.

Powerful Emanon No. 1 showed R-III why freshman teams need experience in flickerball. Gary Bressler and Dave Parkhurst led Emanon to a 31-6 stomping victory over the awestruck rookies.

On Tuesday the first half of the season ended with the Staten Island Fairies finishing at 4-0 as they defeated the tenacious S-IV 14-0. Newcomers Ken and Ron Powell have added to the Fairy strength. The Fairies are going to stick it out despite their annual early winter fade-aways.

In the first round of action of the new leagues, the PKAs nipped PDT 44-38 in a defensive struggle in a League II opener. Oh yes, C-IV got their rumps run over once more as they actually won a game over SAE No. 2, 31-18.

Apologies, I am doing a lot of this so far this year. The two guys who I said won the horseshoe tournament last week were defeated by Williamson. But don't start giving me trouble, PGD, because who cares about throwing horseshoes at a pole in the ground after supper anyway.

May you never wilt until next week.

(Staff Photo by Goodman)

STONE FINGERS
Two IMAC combatants seem intent on missing the ball in the game between Emanon and Richardson.

Sailors Finish Third,

Conquer Fierce Winds

By TRACY CHARLES
Staff Writer

Thirty knot winds and two and one-half foot swells blasted the College of Charleston's Annual Fall Regatta to a start last weekend.

Planning conditions off the battery prevailed for most of the day, abating somewhat towards late afternoon. Because of the high winds early in the day, five boats broke down causing the regatta to be postponed for quick repairs.

The Davidson team's experience the week before in Charleston waters at The Citadel did much to promote their success at College.

Daryl Douglas and his crew Mike Mayer placed third out of seven in A division. Douglas’ extensive knowledge and use of tactics substituted for experience in the tidal waters.

Frank Somerville, with crew Tracy Charles, exhibited a proficiency not seen at the Citadel. Somerville placed second (out of seven) in the B division. Somerville’s ability to use the tides to his benefit and his skill in surfing the boat gave him the advantage necessary to stay on top.

Davidson placed third out of the seven schools represented, only one point out of second.

There will be two SAISA regattas next weekend in singlehand competition. Georgia Tech will host their annual Fall Regatta.

Old Dominion University will also host a regatta this weekend. The skippers tentatively scheduled to attend these two regattas are Dave Francis and Chris Manglesdorf.

(Staff Photo by Goodman)

TURNING THE CORNER
Calvin Allen eludes Tom White in a recent flickerball game between Emanon I and Richardson I. Emanon easily defeated the freshman team to remain unbeaten.

SPORTS THIS WEEK

Friday, October 19 Soccer at The Citadel
Saturday, October 20 Football at William and Mary
Tuesday, October 23 St. Andrews at 3 p.m.

Mon. - Fri.
9 - 5:30

Country Chalet

(formerly Deals Grill)

PIZZA PERFECTO

AND

MANY OTHER NEW ITEMS

$1.00 OFF
FAMILY SIZED
PIZZA

SEND OUT FOR PIZZA

One Coupon Per Pizza

PEPPY'S PIZZA
BAR

550 N. Main Phone 663-2782

COUPON GOOD FOR
DINING IN OR TAKE OUT