Eight December 7, 1973 @ The Davidsonian

Wildcats Open SC Slate With ECU

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcats get their first taste of Southern Conference action tomorrow night when they meet the Pirates of East Carolina in Greenville.

The Cats will be out to begin their bid for another regular season conference title. Last season they copped the regular season crown but lost to Furman in the finals of the tournament.

This season the Cats are looking for all the laurels, especially the tournament title, which includes a bid to the Eastern Regionals of the NCAA Finals.

East Carolina, on the other hand, is not expected to challenge the two perennial contenders, Furman and Davidson, for either of the two titles. The Pirates are in some sort of a rebuilding campaign.

Last season ECU finished with a 13-13 record, good enough for third in the conference. Their upset win over Furman paved the way for Davidson's regular season crown.

The Pirates, however, were hit hard by graduation. They lost six of their top eight performers.

But head coach Tom Quinn is not in a state of despair, in spite of the impending crisis. He recruited three hot new faces. The East Carolina has accepted the role of leader, according to Quinn, and should prove to be invaluable in coordinating the efforts of the club.

Last season, White averaged 11.1 points per game and hauled in quite a few rebounds for the Pirates.

One of the new faces that will see extensive action is freshman Larry Hunt. The 6-8 rookie will be used primarily when Quinn seeks to employ the double-post formation on offense.

The other strong point for the Pirates is at the point. In his first year in college, Donnie Hunt is a 6-1 guard, who has been termed a “smoothie” for his ball-handling skills. Junior Ken Edmonds is also 6-1. He will push Owens hard at the point guard position.

(See WILDCATS, page 11)

(Staff photo by Goodman)

Greg Dunn looks to pass underneath the basket in the Cats' opening victory over Wofford. A second team All-Southern Conference pick last year, Dunn is tied with John Falconi for high scorer after two games. Both are averaging 20 points a game.

Cagers Crush Wofford By 45, Whip Brown For 2-0 Mark

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

The 1973-74 Wildcats started the season on the right foot Monday with a convincing 111-66 win over Wofford.

“I thought we played well, everybody came in and scored,” said head coach Terry Holland.

The Cats were paced by senior John Falconi who had 19 points for the night. Falconi also led the team in assists with five. Other players scoring in double figures were Greg Dunn and Tom Verlin with 13 points, and Larry Horowitz with 11 points.

Verlin, in just his second varsity game, was 5 for 5 from the floor and made 3 for 3 foul shots.

The Cats' only problem seemed to be overeagerness on defense.

“We played good team defense, very aggressive," said Holland.

He went on to explain that when several starters got into early foul trouble, their backups were able to come in and play well.

“We need a team where players can come off the bench and do a good job,” Holland stated.

Impressive backup performances were turned in by Verlin, Eppa Rixey who led the game in rebounding, and by T.J. Pecorak.

Pecorak, seeing his first action of the season after pulling a hamstring last month, came off the bench to score nine points and play very solid defense.

Last night, the Cats pulled out a convincing 103-84 victory over Brown.

Before the game, Holland felt that it would be one of the season's key games.

“I felt we played very well, especially after we went into the zone during the first half; several adjustments were made, including the switch to a zone defense. Davidson put on a strong performance,” said Holland.

Wagner did an excellent job of neutralizing the Bruins' highly touted Phil Brown and led the team in rebounding.

---

DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION
Authorized Dealer
THE SHOP
Electronics Unlimited

173 N. Main St. 663-4513
Mooresville, N. C.

Homeworkers. Earn $60 weekly addressing envelopes. Rush 25¢ to Gemco, POB 21244 X, Indianapolis, Ind. 46221

HATTIES

HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30

IMPORTED BEER
Now Serving The “Hattie” Cheeseburger

THE VILLAGE STORE

Remember your Davidson friends — and your family and friends at home. Gifts and cards from THE VILLAGE STORE will help you say Merry Christmas.