Page Twelve March 2, 1973

The Davidsonian

Friday, March 2
All day - 8 p.m. Pilot Life
8 p.m. Popular Film: "African Queen"
10 p.m. Popular Film: Repeat "African Queen"

Saturday, March 3
8 p.m. Popular Film: "African Queen"
10 p.m. Popular Film: Repeat "African Queen"

Sunday, March 4
2 p.m. Meditators Meeting, Martin Room
8 p.m. Popular Film: "The Last Movie"
10 p.m. Popular Film: Repeat "The Last Movie"

Monday, March 5
2 p.m. Film on China: "Roots of Madness," Morrison Room
4 p.m. Film on China: "Roots of Madness," Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. Artist Series: National Opera Company: "Martha," Love Auditorium
9:45 p.m. Christian Fellowship, Martin Room

Tuesday, March 6
10 a.m. Piedmont Lecturer: Oscar Brockett, Indiana University, Hodson Hall
10 a.m. Traffic Court, Cunningham Room
10 a.m. Any Questions? Dr. Spencer, Ovens Room
2 p.m. Film on China: "Roots of Madness," Morrison Room
4 p.m. Film on China: "Roots of Madness," Morrison Room
7 p.m. Catholic Mass, Phi Hall
8 p.m. Faculty Research Group, Eu Hall

Wednesday, March 7
10 a.m. Alan Whiting on China
7 p.m. Alan Whiting on China
8 p.m. Hellen Wallace, Deputy Keeper, British Museum

Thursday, March 8
8 p.m. Popular Film: "The Last Movie"
10 p.m. Popular Film: Repeat "The Last Movie"

Friday, March 9
10 a.m. Dramatic Reading, Eu Hall
5 p.m. WINTER TERM ENDS
8 p.m. Popular Film: "The Last Movie"
10 p.m. Popular Film: Repeat "The Last Movie"

Saturday, March 10
8 p.m. Popular Film: "The Last Movie"
10 p.m. Popular Film: Repeat "The Last Movie"

Sunday, March 11
Up 'n' Coming: "Roots of Madness"

WINTER EXAMS BEGIN

...Open House: An Institution (Continued From Page 1)

"else to do," he said. Burts recollected that with a different era there was a different type of student. He
suggested that students today are more sophisticated. According to Burts, students used to be more dependent on the faculty. There
were relatively few cars on campus and so students looked more to the town of Davidson--to the professors, their families,
and their daughters," Burts said. "With the removal of Vespers and the advent of auto, students looked elsewhere for their
relationships. With the options of either going to someplace like Winthrop or to an open house, the open house suffered,"
Burts related.

"The prevalent attitude used to be one of more friendliness to professors," Burts continued. "Students used to seek out relationships
with professors outside the classrooms. They regarded these relations as part of their education," he said. "I'm not sure students
want that anymore and therefore don't seek it," commented Burts.

The program in the past, although generally viewed favorably, was a strain on faculty members' wives. Mrs. Thomas Pinkerton recalled
that often they had "too many students, perhaps 25 to 30, to have a good discussion." She described open houses
as being rather difficult. "I just couldn't tell how many students would show up," she said. Long remembered that often
the cooking ability of the wives had a "great amount to do with how big a draw her husband would
have."Long said that open houses were often a burden for faculty wives though, since there was no way to tell
how many students would be coming. Long summed up the program by saying that “it was a nice way to
wind up the weekend."

Welsh’s Symphony Premieres

A new symphony using an electronic synthesizer, a device capable of producing sounds unlike those of any ordinary musical instrument,
has been written by Music Professor Wilmer H. Welsh for the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. The orchestra will premiere Welsh's “Symphony
No. 1 in E Flat" at 8:15 p.m. March 7 in Ovens Auditorium.

“There is much experimentation being done with electronic music today," Welsh said. “It was my goal to produce a symphony
using the synthesizer in a way that can be appreciated by the concert audience—not something restricted to professional musicians, as
some electronic works have been."

Since operating a synthesizer is a highly complex process, Welsh is preparing a tape recording of synthesizer music for the
symphony. An operator will play the tape recorder as if it were another instrument in the orchestra.

“My work is in four movements and lasts about 25 minutes in all,” Welsh explained. “The synthesizer tape will be
used in all but the last movement. The entire symphony is based on a three-note motive. The synthesizer does things
with these three notes that no other instrument could do.”

A synthesizer works because music is really composed of tones produced by vibration, he continued. In the synthesizer, the vibrations
are electronic in origin. These vibrations can be modified in many ways to produce a range of sounds that can
be as low and slow as a bass drum or as high and fast as a whistle. They can sound
resonant or dull. Their rhythm can be varied regularly or randomly. And the synthesizer operator controls it all by switching
electrical connections and by running his fingers across an amazing “keyboard” which responds to the heat in the operator's fingers!

Welsh was asked to compose his work for the Charlotte Symphony by its conductor, Jacques Brourman. Brourman did not specify
that the work include electronic music. “Integrating the tape with the other instruments in the orchestra presents many conducting problems,”
Welsh noted. “Mr. Brourman seems excited about solving them."

(Staff photo by Goodman)

THE MUSIC GOES ROUND
Wilmer H. Welsh explains his electronic gadgetry.

Bowling
MOOR LANES
Daytime Student Rates — Snack Bar
Billiard Tables
Mooresville
Pin Ball Machines

BAGGIES and BIG CUFFS
Come see our new selections
Double Knits
Chambrays
Denims
Corduroys
10¢ to 20¢
Flare Jeans 7¢
Mooresville
