Page Six April 20, 1973 The Davidsonian

Public Interest Group Solicits To Mobilize Student Concern

By BRUCE MALOY Managing Editor

“We are trying to remedy the shortcomings which student interest groups have suffered from in the past, working mainly in three areas: consumer protection, environmental preservation, and corporate responsibility.” This is how Wayne James of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (N.C. PIRG) explained the purpose of his organization in a meeting Tuesday afternoon.

A question and answer sheet put out by N.C. PIRG describes the organization as “...a group of scientists, lawyers, social and other professionals working full-time under the guidance of a student representative body to present citizen causes before the courts, the legislatures, and the public.”

Davidson students Mike Ernst and Andy Lamas are now trying to get a chapter of N.C. PIRG started at Davidson. During the next week, they and other interested students will canvas the campus seeking signatures authorizing the administration to include three dollars annually in students’ bill fees which will be turned over to N.C. PIRG. James explained that each time the money is collected, “students may have their money refunded on request for a period of about a week.”

This past Tuesday, the N.C. PIRG supporters went before the SGA Senate to seek its approval and support. Ernst stated that on Monday, April 30, an Open End will be held in the college Union to explain the purpose and activities of N.C. PIRG to students and to answer any questions that they might have.

If the PIRG chapter is established, a board of six to nine students will be elected by the student body to coordinate the campus activities of PIRG. This board will select one member to be a representative to the state board, which is the governing body of PIRG.

“I have talked to Dr. Kincaid about students working with PIRG as their Extended Studies,” said Lamas, “and he approved of the idea. At Duke,” continued Lamas, “courses have been added to the curriculum which give credit for public interest work, but here I expect that most of the work will be done as Extended Studies.”

Students at other schools doing public interest research have studied race and sex discrimination, grocery store pricing, landlord-tenant relations, advertising practices, occupational safety, environmental education, and have lobbied in Raleigh for consumer and environmental-oriented proposals.

James went on to explain the sort of projects which PIRG has pursued in the past. “We ran a food price survey in Durham, comparing the prices at about 15 stores and also comparing the national brands to the ‘store's own’ brand. We did this by making a computer printout list available to housewives and asking them to price certain specified products for us while they did their regular shopping. We took the results of this survey and sent it to the newspapers in Durham,” explained James. “We found that the cost of enough food for a family of four for one week could range from $35.70 to $45, depending on where it was bought.”

When Ralph Nader was in Chapel Hill last fall, he suggested setting up a North Carolina PIRG along the lines of the groups which have already been set up in 14 other states.

By BRUCE CORSER Asst. Managing Editor

Presently, there is just one Xerox duplicating machine available for student use. Each individual reprint made by this machine in the library costs ten cents, which is a rather standard charge for such copies. The faculty and administration have access to a separate machine in the basement of Chambers which operates at a cost of five cents.

(Staff photo by Trawick)

EXPENSIVE Copy price may drop from ten to five cents.

Economical Xerox Anticipated

for the first four copies of the original, and one cent for each copy after that. Relating to this discrepancy in charge, Director of Personnel and Administrative Services Robert Stephenson explained that the per-copy fee is used to cover actual operating expenses of each machine. Stephenson also announced that, as a result of expressed student interest, he had contacted a Xerox representative about the “possibility of lowering the per-copy price to five cents for the machine in the library.” He said that he is “optimistic” that such a price change could be effected, since the volume of copies would probably increase as a result. Stephenson pointed out, though, that the machines “were not designed to make money.”

Hollins Offers Educational Experience

By VIC FLEMING GUEST COLUMNIST

A: Hello, out there in Wildcat land. Roger Muck here, your roving reporter, reporting today from the campus of Hollins College, that famous liberal arts institution where rich people send their daughters to learn ladiness and to find husbands.

B: Find husbands? A thousand girls at a school in the mountains of Virginia, find husbands?

A: Excuse me, Eric Neverside. Most of them are here perhaps to let husbands find them. Or something like that. At any rate, for many years, Hollins was an all-female institution. But in recent years, male students have sprung up from nowhere, so it seems, through graduate programs and an exchange program called the Eight College Consortium. Yet still, the ratio remains fairly disproportionate, about 30 to one.

B: And today we are going to investigate some of the aspects of such an environment, aren't we, Roger?

A: We certainly are, Eric. We are going to venture into the abode of the 14 undergraduate male exchange students. By the way, they are from nearby schools which are primarily all-_male: Hampden-Sydney College, Washington and Lee University, and Davidson College, the last of these to which we are sending today’s broadcast. This is it, Eric, Boxwood, a large white house on a hill situated directly across Highway 11 from the Hollins campus. Before last year, Boxwood was the home of the family of John Wheeler, dean of the college. Boxwood underwent a thorough renovation and now is made up of 14 bedrooms, five baths, a kitchen, and a living room.

B: Don't just stand there on the front porch, Roger. Go on in.

A: (What if they have girls in there?) Okay, Eric. I'm going in now. Ah, yes, here in the living room we have several boys and girls, Eric. They’re all sitting up like mature human beings. There are girls here and there isn't even any BLEEP! going on. I'd better ask about this.) Excuse me, sir. What is your name?

C: Isaac.

A: Mr. Isaac, sir, what is it like to be a male at Hollins College?

C: Oh, it’s really no different from being a male anywhere else.

A: You mean the girls don't just—Well, never mind. Thank you, Mr. Isaac.

B: (Go over to the guy with the red hair and the mustache, Roger.)

A: (Okay.) Excuse me, sir. What is your name?

D: La Rosa. I'm Italian.

A: Yes, certainly, Mr. LaRosa. Would you elaborate briefly on your Hollins College experience?

D: Wow, man, it’s really been great. I've had a really good time.

E: Excuse us, Mr. Muck. Would you let us say a few serious words to the people out in Wildcat land?

A: Why, sure. What are your names?

F: Never mind what our names are. People all over Wildcat land are gonna see this broadcast, and we want to prevent any false impressions if possible.

A: (They're going to spoil the show, Eric. What do I do?)

B: (Let them talk.)

A: Okay, go ahead, gentlemen.

F: Many people, so it seems, are under the delusion that every male who comes to Hollins just naturally majors for a year in sexual acrobatics and minors in birth control. And it is important that this delusion not become the prime attraction for prospective exchange students.

A: (Gulp!) What then?

F: I would hope that a different educational experience would somehow enter into the mind of the prospective student.

E: Yes, whether it be purely for the courses available or for having females as classmates as well as dates, the educational experience should figure in highly. Take me, for instance. For 14 years I've gone to all-male schools. And now, by experiencing the other extreme in an academic atmosphere, I feel I might somehow be better prepared for the happy medium which they say awaits us in the outside world.

F: Exactly, and my advice to the guy who is looking at Hollins as one nine-month sex orgy is: Forget it! The orgies are few and far between.

A: And what is this that you mentioned about courses?

E: Hollins has a number of courses that I could not get at Davidson. I'm very interested in Russian studies, and Davidson is nil in that area. Here at Hollins, however, there are courses offered in the Russian language, Russian history, Russian literature, Russian philosophy, and Russian politics.

F: And Hollins has fine graduate programs in English, which is my major, and in psychology. Of course, undergraduate students are allowed to take the graduate-level courses. I have taken three graduate-level courses in English and have been very favorably impressed. Most of my English professors here, also, are published authors with at least a fair degree of regional prominence.

A: Is Hollins more difficult than Davidson, or less so?

E: Well, that is a hard question to answer. I've done considerably more work here than at Davidson and my grades have reflected it.

F: Same here. It all depends on the individual course and the professor. And also, of course, the amount of effort one is going to put out. Some people here are able to do far less work and still make better grades. Education remains, in my opinion, what the individual makes it.

A: Well, what about your social life?

E: I think the major change involved there is being able to know the opposite sex on a basis other than that of a date.

F: Plus the fact that the person who suffered socially before is not likely to make a radical change just because the girls are suddenly closer. The atmosphere might, probably does, cause an individual to change a bit. But one has to change in many ways just to be able to exist in an atmosphere like this.

A: What do you mean?

F: There are so many names and faces to remember. And there is also the temptation (I won't deny this) to try and turn Hollins into something it is not: a brothel of loose women. And I am afraid that that would be the best way for a guy to ensure that he never had any social life at all.

E: There's also the fact that knowing girls in the classroom for the first time can be quite a shock. It takes a while to get used to knowing that every time you open your mouth in class what you say is subject to challenge by 20 members of the opposite sex.

A: Gentlemen, we are running out of time. Can you say a few words to sum things up?

E: No.

F: No.

A: What do I do now, Eric?

B: Hell if I know.