Page Six
March 9, 1973
The Davidsonian

Borch Studies Navy Dolphins: ‘More Intelligent Than Man’

By RAZIER VARSH

Poseidon supposedly crossed his domain in a chariot pulled by dolphins. Today, the dolphins seem to have dedicated themselves to
work. Since time immemorial, scientists and our own Frederic L. Borch III, dolphin researcher emeritus, have been interested in these
mammals of the sea. For his extended studies project, he decided to fly to San Diego, Calif. via U.S. Army
to study dolphins.

"My goals," he said, "were first of all to get to San Diego, and then to get inside the laboratories
controlled by the Navy and find out firsthand what is being learned about the dolphin." Borch had all his arrangements
taken care of for him by the Davidson ROTC Department. "The officers wrote letters and made phone calls and cut
a lot of ‘red tape’ for me," he reported. "Finally, I was cleared to fly to San Diego on a
military transport plane—slow, noisy, but free."

Borch was involved in a week-long experiment with the dolphin at the Naval Undersea Research and Development Center: Bio-Science Facility.
"This experiment," he continued, "was the study of the dolphins’ echolocation threshold. Echolocation is the sonar process of the dolphin.
The threshold," Borch explained, "is the point at which the dolphin's echolocation is no longer accurate."

AN OPINION

The experiment involved the dolphin’s choosing which object was further away. This was done by his sonar ability. Borch explained
that the dolphin would try to outwit the scientists. "The dolphin is quite capable of abstract thought," he said. "This
mammal finds it easy to recognize any logical pattern. The scientists had to be careful not to set up any
pattern which the dolphin could see, because if he found the pattern, he would stop using his sonar and just
follow the scientific routine," Borch said. "Their brain is a kind of ‘computer-inventor's’ dream. They can send out sonar waves
and have them analyzed before one one-hundredth of a second has passed, which is much faster than any computer's rate
of analyzation."

By JOE EARLE
Associate Editor

Ten years is a long time. In the world of popular music, where trends, stars, and fortunes can be made
or broken in weeks, it is an unbelievably long time. Only one group has been able to hack it for
10 years in the limelight. Other bands have been around as long, but so far only one band has survived
their first recorded efforts by a full decade: The Beach Boys.

The Beach Boys had records on the charts a year before the Beatles made it in America. They explained that
the dolphin's large brain capacity is a reason for their intelligence. Each time they mutated to a new environment, their
brain size and function would increase to allow for the changes they would have to make. "In this way, the
dolphin is more intelligent than man," Borch said. Borch is interested in oceanography and hopes to continue his research over
the summer at another oceanography institute. He hopes to take his junior year at a university marine laboratory. Borch is
planning another extended studies project next year, but at this time he will not divulge his plans.

The Beach Boys had gold singles two years before the Stones recorded "Satisfaction" or the Byrds cut "Mr. Tambourine Man."
And they are still with us. The Beach Boys have been able to "stand the test of time" both because
they have been producing a fine musical product which is as close to "timeless" as pop music can be, and,
more importantly, they seem to have an uncanny instinct for survival. After the first British invasion, the band fell out
of popular favor; they were associated with the "Beach Sound" of surfing, fast cars, and fun.

Hail Richard, Full Of Grace, Have Mercy, We Have Sinned

By MARY HOBBIE
Contributing Editor

Hail Richard, full of grace, have mercy on us for we have sinned. I wish to propose a new organization
to be formed immediately. Following a glorious precedent, I propose to support the manufacture of silver and copper bracelets. Each
bracelet will have inscribed on it a name and a date. The bracelets will be worn for memorial purposes. The
bracelets will remind all who wear them or see them of the plight of 68,000 Americans. These are the young
men who left the United States, serve time in prison, or deserted rather than fight in a war which they
believed to be immoral. These men are the POWs of today and tomorrow. They are prisoners of war because they
acted according to conscience. The name of each POW will be inscribed on the bracelet. Underneath the name will be
the date on which the...POW left the U.S., or the date he left the armed forces. If he is serving
in prison, the date on which he was sentenced will be inscribed. The organization should give out bracelets bearing the
names only of those men who wish to return to the United States. It is for them that the organization
would exist. Contributions to the new POW organization will be used to defray the costs of manufacture, publicity for the
organization, and expenses for an amnesty lobby in Washington. The people who wear the new POW bracelet will engage to
wear the bracelet until their POW returns to his family, or until their arm falls off. Whichever comes first. This
is an effort which must be made. We can't allow these patriots to be forgotten. The POW organization will promote
interest in the plight of these courageous citizens. The organization may eventually expand to production of bumper stickers. "Don't forget
our POWs" is a possible slogan. The color scheme will be red, white, and blue. Unless this effort is made,
the American people will continue to believe that the ends in Vietnam have justified the means. They have not. The
wholesale bombing of North Vietnam was not and could never be morally right. The murder of civilians is not "honorable."
When "peace with honor" is so glibly claimed, I cringe for the honor of my country. It is impossible to
have a war that has continued dishonorably and immorally for years end morally and with honor. Therefore, I propose this
new POW organization to show support for those men who refused to accept a role founded on a sham honor.
If amnesty is not granted to those men who acted according to their consciences, we may find ourselves mouthing prayers
to our nation’s plastic honor. There will soon be a hot business in such prayers as the one with which
this article started: Hail Richard, full of ****, have mercy on us for we have sinned.

ERRORITE™ AT YOUR BOOKSTORE

TAKING DAVIDSON IN STRIDE

Mrs. Frankie Hutton, professor of freshman English at Johnson C. Smith University, has introduced an extended studies course in journalism
winter term at Davidson.

Beach Boys Endure Time Test

Mindless lyrics and dancing, so few people paid any attention to them after 1966. Sometime around 1967, the Beach Boys
became, of all things, underground stars with albums like "Wild Honey" and "Sunflower." The album "Pet Sounds," along with band
leader Brian Wilson, achieved mythological status. The band persevered, and during the past two years they have produced two albums
that put them back on top of the rockpile—"Surf's Up" and now "Holland." The former album brought some media attention
back to the band and turned a new audience onto their music; "Holland," their most recent work, continues the Beach
Boys’ experiments with their unique approach to popular music.

There has always been a "Beach Boys’ Sound." It was not the "West Coast Beach Music" it is lumped with—the
primitive rock and roll of Jan and Dean or the Surfaris. Rather it was an approach to rock that emphasized
clean, intelligent production, heavy on group vocals and laid-back, emotional music. After their early Chuck Berry ripoffs, very few of
the band's songs had reference to danceability or the "car music" of Top 40 radio. Instead, they were experiments with
a blanket of vocal and instrumental sound that enveloped and seduced the listener. Only the Motown performers of the mid-sixties,
Phil Spector, and Harry Nilsson have been able to use human voices as effectively, and as lushly, as the Beach
Boys. Luckily, the Beach Boys managed to avoid the saccharine stylization that afflicted the Detroit producers, and most of the
excesses of Spector. They kept their music firmly rooted in rock and roll, and never sacrificed rock instrumentation or rhythmic
punch for the effect of layers of strings.

"Holland" continues the band's experiments with this type of music. It features all the best of the Beach Boys’ style,
especially their fine vocal harmonies and instrumental arrangements. Like any Beach Boy album, "Holland" is not without fault. "Mt. Vernon
and Fairway," a short fairytale scored by Brian, is a throwaway, a mildly interesting production piece that loses interest after
a couple of listenings. Despite this egocentric "extra" (it is packaged as a single, and removable), the rest of "Holland"
is an enjoyable record that bears repeated listenings. "Holland" is essentially a peaceful album. It is as quiet and dignified
as the Dutch canal on the cover or the lone cow on the back. This album won't save the world
or turn the rock world upside down, but the music is as good as any I've heard recently. Sail on,
Beach Boys.

ABORTION

An abortion can be arranged in 24 hours and you can return home the same day you leave! CALL TOLL
FREE (800) 523-4436
