Six January 1, 1984

Coed Lockers Raise P.E. Enrollment

A new policy for the locker room facilities under Johnston Gym was announced in a joint statement by Athletic Director
Tom Scott, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Physical Education Director Chip Stone, and several key student leaders. The new policy
makes the facilities, including showers and training rooms, co-educational for use by both sexes at the same time.

Reaction to this move across the campus was very well received indeed. Several of the freshman girls expressed their excitement
at being able to use the showers with their male counterparts. One said, “This is probably the biggest step forward
in Davidson education. I think it is fantastic that we are finally getting away from the sex-barrier. We will finally
be able to get it on together.”

When asked why the college adopted the new policy, Spencer indicated that he thought it was “time all this nonsense
in tere felt that they have been discriminated against and we just got tired of listening to them gripe.” It
is a giant leap forward for the college, which has been suffering from the lack of participation in physical education
activities. Stone commented that “the enrollment in P.E. activities has already doubled in just a few hours. Several people have
asked me if we are going to switch to some sort of night program so that people will have more
opportunities to participate in the fun and physical activities.”

There was also an indication that the consensus of the student body would favor an increase in the amount of
P.E. requirements needed for graduation. All of the campus was not favorable, however. One freshman was quite dismayed by the
move. “I hate girls,” he stated emphatically. “They are all immoral and we would be a lot better off if
we just expelled them all. They are corrupting us.”

This criticism seemed hardly fair to the female population of the college. Generally, they are well liked by the men
here. The new policy will not go into effect until after the Christmas recess for several reasons. First, there are
several changes that will have to be made to the locker rooms. Additionally, local drug stores have run out of
certain supplies due to a recent demand which began during freshman orientation, and they are currently reordering.

“It is hard to understand the situation,” Spencer criticized. “They ought to be shot for letting the supply get out
of hand. I warned them during the summer that there would be an enormous crisis after the first month of
school. I foresaw the problem. But the Senate would not take action.”

But the boss of this fine institution settled down and (See SHORTAGE, page 7)

Trustees Announce Policy, Bender Gets Deciding Vote

The trustee’s committee on athletics announced several sweeping changes in the basketball program at Davidson earlier this week. “In order
to keep a nationally prominent basketball program within reach and to facilitate an easier attainment of this objective, certain modifications
of the existing program at Davidson must be made,” stated the trustees’ written announcement.

Grapplers Trip To Uruguay For Goodwill Summer Fun

The State Department announced Tuesday that the Davidson wrestling team will go on a goodwill tour of Uruguay this summer.
The trip will be conducted in a similar manner as the basketball team’s trip to Australia was last summer. The
team will be gone for the entire month of July and will give wrestling exhibitions throughout the country, wrestling against
some of the better teams in Uruguay.

“Actually the entire trip would only take a weekend and a half but we’ll be traveling by horseback during their
monsoon season so time has to be allowed for traveling problems,” commented coach Charles Parker. When questioned whether Uruguay would
reciprocate by sending her national team to the U.S. as the Australians did with their basketball team, Parker replied, “I
hope not.”

Team members were generally enthusiastic when they heard the news. “Where the hell is Uruguay?” said Charlie Dor.

Sports This Week

Friday, December 14
Polo Match
Sandburst 12 Midnight

Chess team vs. Richmond
Emil Parker’s Office 3:30 p.m.

IMAC Grenade Toss
Top of new Library 4:30 p.m.

IMAC Grenade Catch
Remains of new Library 4:30 p.m.

Saturday, December 15
Demolition Derby
Patterson Court 9:00 a.m.

Ski Jump vs. Georgia
Soccer Field 3:30 p.m.

Sailing
Pearl Harbor 6:00 p.m.Wednesday, December 19
Football Practice
Richardson Field
9:00 p.m.

Rifle Team Turkey Shoot
Richardson Field
9:00 p.m.

Monday - Friday
Axe Chopping
Chambers 230B
9:00 a.m.

"It will be a first-class honor and privilege to represent Uncle Sam and the American way of life in front
of all of those greasy little spic twerps," said Miles Ward. "The Uruguay Republic will host a state dinner for
the team upon their arrival. Following the dinner, a reception will be held for the team at the nearest hospital."
Parker stated that wrestling interest has increased greatly in Uruguay during the last few years. As a result, the team
will face some very good competition during the trip. "Those little guys can be awful slippery, especially when they smear
coconut incense all over their bodies in those aboriginal tribal get-togethers that they always have," Parker said.

The team will be allowed to enjoy some sightseeing tours during their visit. Included in the itinerary will be a
visit to the world’s largest coffee plantation, where the world’s largest albino coffee bean is kept. Juan Valdez, who will
accompany the team, hopes that the team will be impressed by his countrymen’s hospitality.

Tom Scott will replace Jim Larranaga as junior varsity coach while Larranaga will take up a position as a full-time
recruiter. Present plans call for Larranaga to devote most of his time to scouting high school players in the New
York City area. Among the schools that he will concentrate on, Larranaga mentioned Archbishop Malloy High School in Queens as
the most likely source of future Wildcats. "After all, Mike Sorrentino, Tom Verlin, and myself all attended Malloy, so we
should have an inside track there," Larranaga said. "Besides, if I show up there enough they might let me graduate
this time," Larranaga added.

The top prospects, according to Larranaga, are Fred "Toadstool" Pallacci, a 5’7” center, Adolph "Ralph" Spinelli, a 6’ forward, and
Harvey Fartz, a 6’9” rapist. "All three are really super prospects. Stool is a real jumper, he can touch the
rim sometimes, Ralph is one of the dirtiest players in the country, and I guess all you can say about
Harvey is that he’s a real go-getter," Larranaga stated.

Scott was also pleased with his new status. "First of all, I’ve always wanted one of the upstairs offices in
the gym, and with the prospects that have lined up, it doesn't look like I'll have much to do," Scott
said.

Head basketball coach Holland was also enthusiastic over the new changes. Holland noted that he was particularly pleased with the
new recruiting methods and the fact that very few big men were being recruited. "We have proved that we can’t
get any big people to come to Davidson, so from now on we'll concentrate strictly on smaller players, 6’4” or
under," Holland said.

A change made by the trustees will be in the coaching mechanics of the team. The team will now be
coached through a parliamentary procedure system. Under the system adopted by the trustees, before any type of change or substitution
can be made in a game, the coaches will vote on the issue. All coaches will receive one vote as
well as a player designated shortly before the game. "It was decided to give a player a vote in order
to develop the fine leadership potential of the team members," said Holland. In the eventuality of a 2-2 tie, Holland
explained that a time out will be called and Cat mascot Dave Bender will be called upon to cast the
deciding vote. "Dave has really done a great job for us in the last couple of years and this was
our only way to show him our appreciation," Holland stated.

Bender was very enthusiastic over the new policy, saying, "It’s about time they gave me something else to do instead
of just running around in that tacky uniform all the time." Several players were also in favor of the move.
"It’s a great chance to develop our fine leadership potential," said Jay Powell. It was also hinted by the trustees
that in the future, faculty and administration officials will be called on to assist in coaching responsibilities. "I just can’t
wait to try my 4-1-4 defense," commented John Bevan. "I think this will present a great opportunity for my son
Frank," stated another college employee. Some administration members were not happy with the decision. "It’ll take too much time from
my tennis game," said Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White.
