DOUG BROWN  
The Davidsonian  
October 12, 1973  

Rip-Offs Shatter Previous Attitudes  

The souped-up cop-mobile rolled down the sidewalk and forced us to move out of its way as it came to a stop near the steps of the Union. Two of Davidson's Finest swaggered out of the car. One of them asked: "Have you seen two colored boys who looked like they don’t belong here run by in the last four or five minutes?" The professor, with whom I had been talking in front of the Union for the past 10 minutes, and I shook our heads and said we hadn’t. We asked what the problem was. "They attacked a boy down at the gym," one of the officers said, "and beat him up-side the head." With flashlights in hand, they then walked off in search of the assailants into the quiet darkness that pervaded Davidson last Thursday night.

Davidson is in the midst of a crime wave. So far this year 26 bicycles have been stolen and $2000 in cash and valuables have been taken, an amount exceeding that reported stolen during the whole of last year. And there is the claim by Ron Scott of the Slater Food Service that students are taking food without paying for it. While this thievery, like those acts mentioned above, is reprehensible, I can at least understand the motivation behind it better than that behind these other acts of stealing. People feel like they are being ripped off by Slater. So when they take food, silverware, or whatnot from Slater, their conscience does not bother them too much because they feel that they are getting their fair share.

Unfortunately, it is not Slater that suffers because of such pilferage but other students. Slater is a profit-making institution, and Ron Scott has threatened that any additional costs he must bear will be passed on to the student customers. And this is a threat that Scott is more than willing to carry out, as can be attested by the yearly hikes in the board bill coupled with a decrease in the amount and quality of the food. So stealing food only hurts other students, especially freshmen who are forced to eat at Slater’s.

Being forced to eat at Slater’s is not only an infringement on the freshman’s individual freedom and consumer choice (anyone who has eaten at Morrison's or the K & W Restaurant in Concord recently knows Slater's ain't no bargain) but it also has a vicious aspect to it. For example, last week I bought a meal ticket from a coed for $7 under face value and after doing so I told her that if she knew of anyone else who wanted to sell a meal ticket to let me know. She then proceeded to sell me another ticket and was about to sell me a third before I objected. "My God," I said, "you don’t want to sell me another ticket because if you do, what will you have to eat with?" She then flipped through her booklet of tickets and realized that she was selling too many. I went away with a $14 savings, but at the expense of that coed who was subsidizing my eating habits.

Ron Scott doesn’t care if this coed is being ripped off because he already has the money he expropriated when she was forced to join the meal plan, and of course, I am happy to be saving money. I plan to save even more as the term wears on and the meal tickets become increasingly worthless to their holders, who either must sell them at absurdly low prices or end up with a scrap of paper. That coed and other freshmen like her are victims of one of the biggest rip-offs ever perpetuated at Davidson College. But this is a "legal" rip-off and right now I am more concerned with the illegal ones.

Perhaps the most dismaying of these illegal rip-offs is the loss of books from the library. Over 300 books were lost last year alone, and there is now talk of installing an electronic detection system in the new library to prevent future losses. Evidently, those who oversee the library have decided that the stealing of books has reached such a critical point that affirmative action must be taken. I have already noticed that more people have begun locking their rooms and car doors and are taking greater care not to leave valuables lying around. However, in acting to keep crime from our doorsteps we have already become its victims. We will give up our trust in and openness towards others, and in the process, we will change our lives for the worse. We will become more suspicious of and aloof from the townspeople who are allegedly responsible for much of the increase in crime. And the town-gown conflict will have grown a little worse. In the process, life will have become a little meaner and that indefinable but precious thing called quality of life will have suffered.

We seem to know of no other way to combat crime except by hiding behind our doors and increasing police protection. This will probably cut down on the incidence of crime, but at a heavy cost to our psyche. Just last Saturday at the Muddy Waters concert a Davidson policeman paraded up and down the aisles, a sharp departure from the previous practice of just standing at the doors. And he was looking for something, and you got the feeling he was interested in more than just catching someone breaking Joe Earle’s edict against smoking or drinking in Love Auditorium. He was in Love to maintain order because seemingly we have lost the capacity.to maintain order ourselves, and must rely on an outside body to enforce it for us. Whether or not we have been robbed, we are all the victims of crime because we have lost the freedom to leave doors unlocked, to leave or enter the library as we please, or to enjoy a concert without the heavy hand of the law being present. Many of us have often despaired over Davidson’s apparent inability to change to adapt to the times. However, we had what must be considered the naive belief that what was good about Davidson would remain the same, and that the real struggle lay in changing those things which were bad about this place. But recent events have shown that what is good about Davidson cannot be taken for granted, and instead these good aspects must be nurtured and defended. It is still not too late to stem the rising tide of crime, but we as students must do this ourselves. If an administration or police solution to the problem is imposed, it will be on their own terms and not ours.

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN

Hill Climbers Face Self Worth Problem

By EDWARD L. PALMER
Professor of Psychology

I knew a student once who thought a degree was the epitome of ac-

The Quips Don't Crank

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Logan ‘Nonfigures’

To The Editor:

In the October 5 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, there appeared an article on Juan Logan's art exhibit. I was pleased to see that the article contained not only a description of the works but also a critical analysis. However, I wish to question a few points in the analysis.

The writer has described the physical appearance of the sculpture quite adequately. I agree with his view that the elements of planes and volume employed in the works are the most striking, but the statement that the sculpture is “technically nonfigurative” is made without sufficient grounds. The most striking example of figurative sculpturing appears in the background of THE DAVIDSONIAN’s photograph. At first glance the piece may appear to be merely an arrangement of planes, curves, and volume; however, once one realizes that it is entitled “The Traditional Trap” one will readily see that it is the lower portion of a reclining female figure with raised knees.

I agree with the writer's analysis that one motif in the drawings is a lamentation of the Black man’s experience in America. However, the most important and moving works are the ones that show the reversal of roles between Black and White men. These pieces speak to the racial issues of our day and cause one to stop and think. They are not lamentations; they are a form of social protest.

I also disagree with the interpretation that Juan Logan’s drawings do not reveal a neo-African influence. By looking at these drawings one is immediately struck with their similarity to the drawings and paintings of the Spanish artist, Joan Miro. Miro was greatly influenced, as were many of his contemporaries, by African art. Juan Logan admits that he studied Miro’s work and those of his contemporaries.

Vance Polley
North Mecklenburg High School

complishment. Cracking books on subjects he had never heard of before, he doggedly pushed for that bachelor’s sheepskin. Then came graduation, the sheepskin, and another hill - this time the master’s degree incline, a little steeper and a little lonelier - no longer a part of undergraduate campus life and yet still a part of the grind. Another graduation, another sheepskin, and inevitably, another hill. Slope No. 3 was steeper and longer than Slope No. 2 and had numerous humps and patches of mud built in. Sheer, flat-out determination soon overrode intelligence as the climb continued, and the student began questioning why he was there. Six years invested by now and faint, early glimmerings of the question “why?” -- a murderous question to ask at that point.

Many things we do seem to be “given”, donated by something or someone “out there.” One of the most generous donors is the highly conscious society in which we live. Silently and subtly our society tells us and we tell our children to get degrees because “they make you somebody” and too often this gets interpreted to mean you aren’t somebody unless you have one. So, many “mountain climbers” move out to tackle unfamiliar and unappealing slopes at someone else’s suggestion. Climbs that would be tough enough if the student himself wanted to make them become virtually impossible when undertaken not for oneself but for someone else. And paper accounts of student depression and suicide incidence grow alarmingly frequent and disproportionate to the general population. So much to offer, so much lost.

Somewhere we, as predecessors, have done you, as students, a grave disservice. We have given you the message, sometimes openly and sometimes unwittingly, that your worth was a matter of degree. It has been the standard we have established for ourselves and have suffered by. Now the prospect of forced mountain-climbing continues to loom as a painful future threat unless you as prospective standard-setters can effectively change the criteria of personal worth. Perhaps an effective first step is the recognition that if the climber himself is not genuinely involved in the climb and “to become somebody” is our expectation of the summit, disappointment awaits. We create our own version of first, second or third degree murder. Children are past masters of the question “Why?” and I hope we can keep that semblance of childhood with us on the slopes. If we can, maybe the climb can be exciting for those who want to make it. And maybe the summits no longer will be ends in themselves, but beginnings.