Che Vol. LXIII, No. Twenty-Four

Impeachment

This week, 400 Davidson students were asked their opinion on impeachment and the President. The results are as follows:

Published Weekly By Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Do you think Richard Nixon should be impeached?
Yes No
Freshman 55 40
Sophomore 85 11
Junior 65 30
Senior 78 14
Und. TOTAL 283 95

April 26, 1974

Educators Denounce College Property Sale

By TODD EADES
Associate Editor

Opposition is mounting to college consideration to sell 300 acres of land in Burke County, N.C. The land, near Glen Alpine and adjacent to the South Mountain Game Management Area, is used by the biology department to collect material for research and for class field trips. The property is approximately 30 miles from Davidson.

An offer of $300 an acre has been made to the college by an unknown party, possibly an owner of adjoining property through the Southern Estate Agency of Charlotte. Sale of the property would net the college $80,000-$90,000, depending upon the amount of commission paid the realtor. The money would go into the endowment.

S. M. Goodman deeded the land to the college endowment in October, 1948. Since that time the land has produced little income. In the early 1960's the college sold timber and gravel from 200 acres of the land. Real estate taxes for 1973 were $152. There are no improvements on the land.

Wednesday, an interested group, including Professor of Biology Tom Daggy, Professor of French Hallam Walker, Senior Tom Hatley, and five other students met with college Business Manager Robert Currie to learn the status of the issue and to discuss the prospective sale. Currie explained that gifts to the endowment are assumed to be made for the production of income. Members of the group stressed the educational, ecological, and potential recreational benefits of the land. Currie will relay these arguments to a meeting of himself, college President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., and Vice President of Finance and Development C. David Cornell, from which a recommendation will be made to the Trustee Finance Committee. A decision is expected next week.

The biology department became interested in the Glen Alpine land about 12 years ago, using it for an occasional field trip. Use of the land has increased since. This year, two classes in the fall term and two classes in the spring term have made

Minimum Wage Hike To Affect ARA

By BRUCE CORSER
Managing Editor

President Nixon, on April 8, signed into law a measure raising the Federal minimum wage in gradual steps to $2.30 an hour. The minimum now is $1.60. College employees will be unaffected by the new legislation but the ARA branch at Davidson will have to comply with new wage scales. Initial raises will take effect on May 1, with further increases effective on January 1 of succeeding years. The rate goes to $1.90 May 1, then $2.00, $2.20, and $2.30 by Jan. 1, 1977.

The law permits higher education institutions to employ their full-time students at 85 percent of the applicable minimum wage. However, Davidson will not be forced to boost work-study wages until 1976 since the college already pays them $1.80 an hour. The starting rate for full-time custodians is $2.20 an hour. This rate compares with $.98 an hour wage for the 1963-64 period. Full-time laundry employees now receive $2.00 an hour as compared with $.92 an hour a decade ago.

College Business Manager Robert Currie has received figures from ARA Director Ron Scott which indicate that there will be an adjustment in the cost of meal tickets next year. These figures, still unavailable, have yet to be approved by the Trustees. However, the catalogue indicates that there is the possibility of change in the board fee from the stated figure. Over the past year, the total costfor meal tickets at ARA has been $675. Currie said, “I feel sure that there is going to be an adjustment in the board figure next year. The basic reason for this increase is the amendment to the minimum wage law.” College Laundry Manager Francis Beaver stated that the wage bill would not affect the laundry, since employees already receive above the minimum. However, the laundry will be affected in two years, as a result of the graduated increase stipulation of the wage bill. Scott revealed that the total increase in the cost of labor for ARA Slater next year will be $21,500. This figure includes an increase in wages of work-study students. Scott said that by May 1, 1975, all his employees will receive $1.90 an hour. The starting rate for unskilled help at ARA is now $1.65 an hour. Currie noted that all college workers could be affected indirectly by the wage bill. “The college has always had to compete with local industry for help and so the wage boost could conceivably alter the college wage scale on a competitive basis.”

About two trips each to the property. The Edible Wild Plants class field trip several weeks ago resulted in a story in the Charlotte Observer. Daggy, whose classes use the land, is the center of opposition to the sale. “Glen Alpine is the only college land useful for biological purposes,” he explained. The 200 acres from which the gravel was removed is now vegetated again and supports plant and animal life which can’t be found in the untouched remaining 100 acres. For biological use, Daggy said, the mined 200 acres was “useful but degraded,” although the area will never be a natural mountain valley again. Daggy has educational and ecological interests in keeping and preserving the Glen Alpine property. “If the college saved the 300 acres, we'd have invaluable areas for classwork,” he said, and also, “I consider it the duty of a university or college to buy land in order to preserve it.” Years ago, Professor of Biology E. E. Brown (now retired) attempted to persuade the college to purchase land in the sand hills of eastern North Carolina, but without results. Many other educational institutions both in the region and the nation currently own land with the intent of preserving its natural state. Daggy is also disgruntled with the college’s land management policies. “The college seems to manage their land only for money,” he said, “and not for educational investments.” Recently, the college was going to cut trees on the hill south of Erwin Lodge. Daggy saw the trees which were already marked for logging and convinced the college to halt. The area north of the playing fields has been thinned by cutting, which caused, Daggy explained, the area to be taken over by Japanese honeysuckle, destroying the natural growth for about 30 years. “There are a great many things you can’t figure in dollars,” Daggy maintained.

Saturday, April 27
Sunday, April 28

Carnival Rides Parking Lot
11 a.m. Play: “Dracula” Hodson Hall
8:30 a.m. Graduate Chambers Banquet Hall
2 a.m. Horror Flick: Union Lawn
Record Exam “Bride of Frankenstein”
Friday, April 5
10:45 a.m. Parade Main Street
3 a.m. Breakfast Rusk House
All day Carnival Rides Parking Lot
2 p.m. Jello Fight Patterson Court
6:30 a.m. Sunrise Worship Soccer Field
8 p.m. Concert: Love Auditorium
1:30 p.m. Concert: Patterson Court
Spring Herbie Mann and Edmunds & Curley
A.L. Richards
8:15 p.m. Drama Workshop: Hodson Hall
9 p.m. Edmunds & Curley Chambers Night Club
3 p.m. DAR Preservation Lecture: Phi Hall
Dracula
11 p.m. Play: “Dracula” Hodson Hall
Dr. Perzel and Dr. Morrid
Midnight Movie Orgy Morrison Room
Midnight Movie Orgy Morrison Room
7 p.m. Experimental Films Hodson Hall