Ada Jenkins School Becomes Davidson Community Center

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Senior News Editor

(Ed. Note: The following is a brief historical outline of Ada Jenkins School for the past ten years. Information was
acquired during a discussion with Chairman of the Davidson Park and Recreation Committee Randall Kincaid.)

Ada Jenkins School, as an institution, was attended solely by black students before the desegregation ruling made by the Supreme
Court. Approximately ten years ago, it was vacated as the blacks were moved to Davidson Elementary School, which had been
all-white prior to the integration. This integration left the building idle, which is the way that it remained for many
years.

Three years ago (or somewhere thereabouts) the idea came up that the town of Davidson could use a kindergarten for
the children of the community. Consequently, some of the concerned citizens sought federal funds to support such a project. After
the necessary application and investigation, the funds were granted for the operation of the kindergarten. Hence, Ada Jenkins School acquired
a new name, the Davidson Child Development Center. This name still is imprinted on the front of the building, even
though there is no longer a kindergarten in operation. The child development program was discontinued when federal funds were withdrawn.
The rationale of the government for making this move was that the town’s populace had grown in income status. That
is, the people of Davidson were making too much money to be on federal assistance supporting a kindergarten. This position
was noticeable according to the census figures released at that time.

Now Ada Jenkins School was no longer the Davidson Child Development Center. Once again, it stood idly by, one of
the many relics of the “Old South” prior to integration. Time passed. Then, about one year ago, an organization known
as the Open House (located in Charlotte) became interested in the building for their purposes. After inquiring as to the
availability of the space, they were told to check the attitude of the town towards having Open House use the
building. Consequently, there was a strong reaction against such a measure which was voiced mainly by those who reside nearest
the school.

As an alternative to the dilemma of whether to lend the building to the Open House or to let it
stand idle and waste away, there was the suggestion that it be developed into a community center for the town.
The Town Council took over the matter at this point. First, they decided to refer the matter to the Park
and Recreation Committee. Then they appointed Kincaid as the new chairman of this committee. Thus, the committee began an investigation
into the possibility of returning the building to the use of the town and the feasibility of making it a
community center for the town.

This is the position in which the building may be found today. Davidson has a community center, which seeks to
operate for the benefit of the entire populace. After making the affirmative decision regarding the community center, the committee decided
to lease two-thirds of the building for a token rental fee of one dollar per year. The committee does have
the responsibility of complete maintenance of the building, as well as the utility payments.

And so unfolds the history of the Ada Jenkins School. Instead of a moth-collecting relic, the town of Davidson has
a very useful and thriving operation which seeks to fill some of the very vital needs of the community as
a whole. It is certainly a history that can be recalled with a great sense of pride, that by having
the will to see a purpose through its end, people are able to live with major changes which affect them
as a group.

SGA Election Results

By BILL ELLETT
Operations Manager

With Freshman Class elections and the filling of two vacancies, the senate is now complete for the term with 25
voting members. Tuesday afternoon, Roger Brown, Jim Ervin, and George Reedy defeated three other candidates for freshman class senator. Brown
was elected class president, receiving the most votes. In its meeting Tuesday night, the senate appointed Tom Ainsworth and John
Alexander to fill vacancies caused by resignations. The SGA Constitution and By-laws won acceptance by the student body in the
Tuesday referendum with votes of 299-45 and 282-62.

Patricia Ann Arnold
Blain Byerly Butner
Steven Dane Canterbury
Mark Bailey Connors
Joseph Meacham Duncan Jr.
Gregory James Dunn
Carol Blair Benson Goldsborough
James Camp Goodloe IV
Reginald MichaelHarding John David Harper SUMMERS

(Ed. Note: This is the second installment of a three-part series on counseling at Davidson.)

Having received two grants of $22,000 from the Office of Cooperative Education of the U.S. Department of Health, Education and
Welfare, Davidson College has hired Ken N. Wood as director for experimental learning programs and placement. Wood has assumed the
duties of handling the placement aspect of the program with Suzie Summers, who has been handling most of the placement
responsibilities over the past few years while working in the College Union. He is also now responsible for developing internships,
career service projects, and other off-campus experiences for students and deals with the portion of extended studies projects which necessitate
off-campus studies.

“I conceive of my office as a kind of brokerage, allowing myself to serve as a liaison to inform students
as to what is available in the way of learning resources outside of the campus experiences and to form bridges
between student and academic communities and student and outside communities,” said Wood. He expressed optimism about his office handling both
experiential learning programs and placement. “The two components of this office will complement each other,” Wood said. “Through providing exposure
to students, they can develop many of their own contacts and give themselves options to explore on their own,” Wood
indicated. “In our placement emphasis, we are looking for vocational development for the student, rather than a senior year attempt
to make some bread,” Wood explained. “I’d like to explore the ways in which we can use alumni; they are
our vast untapped resource,” he added. “Alumni have access to temporary internships and more permanent jobs. I’d like to think
we could play the role of a catalyst to serve between the alumni and students.”

Wood is presently building a file of sites for opportunities in career service, internships, placement, and extended studies involvement. College
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. expressed his personal opinion that Davidson students would use off-campus learning experiences to serve others,
rather than themselves.

Who's Who

Twenty-six Davidson students have been nominated for inclusion in the 1974-75 edition of “Who’s Who Among Students In American Universities
And Colleges,” according to Dean of Students Will H. Terry. They are:
- Steve Macon Pharr
- Stephen DuBose Porter
- Vincent Frank Rabil
- Stephen Wright Still
- Augustus Ernest Succop III
- Michael Grant Tanner
- John Richard White

“I agree that field experience should be a consciousness-developing process where students develop a sense of human needs and community
needs and examine their own relationships with others,” Wood elaborated. He indicated that most Davidson students have been sheltered in
regard to many worldly experiences and lifestyles. “Students who go to Davidson are not those who have had great exposure
to human needs. People who are economically disadvantaged, such as the people of Appalachia or the inner city areas of
our large urban centers, live in cultures pretty foreign to students here. I think students at Davidson need to examine
their lifestyles in perspective with the needs, problems, and experiences of people such as these,” said Wood.

Wood felt that little has been done here in the past to prepare students for study abroad or for other
experiences away from the Davidson campus. “It seems to me that there has been very little done in preparing students
for off-campus experiences. Little happens when they return to integrate their experiences with the rest of the academic program. I
think it’s important to work with students during the quarter prior to their leaving Davidson to help them to articulate
their own goals for the program and to help them gain skills in analyzing their situations and in listening; often
non-verbal listening skills for communication with people in foreign cultures.”

Wood expressed hope that various faculty members and clinical psychologists would be working with students, often in group sessions, to
assimilate off-campus experiences with Davidson academia. “I don’t come here with any canned programs or definite answers,” said Wood. “I’m
here to expand and support what’s moving here. I think it’s up to students to a large degree to determine
how this office will be used to benefit them. Hopefully, students will be thinking about using their entire four-year college
experience, not just a summer or year abroad or job after graduation,” said Wood.

“Both Suzie and I are committed, we’re working together for the same things. Our offices are open, and students get
the priority,” Wood concluded.

Wood and Summers have offices located in the basement of Chambers building in the student counseling services area.
