Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Exam Procedure

The college calendar calls for exams to be taken November 22, 23, 25, 26. Not all professors use the self-scheduled
system described here, so each student should determine definitely the requirements for each course. If self-scheduled exams are used, the
following instructions apply:

1. Go to the College Store and purchase an exam envelope.
2. Fill out the location information on both the exam envelope and the yellow card.
3. Go to the Examination Hall between 8:40 and 9:15 for morning sessions and 1:40 and 2:15 for afternoon sessions
and ask for the envelope corresponding to your name. The yellow card will be detached and retained by the examination
staff.
4. Go to the classroom in Chambers and write your exam between 9:00 and 11:15 for the morning session and
2:00 and 5:15 for the afternoon session.
5. The honor pledge must be signed at the examination center table as you turn in the exam envelope. The
yellow card, now receipted by the examination center, will be returned to you.

We will continue to use the Student Instruction Report as an instrument of course evaluation. You will receive one from
each of your professors. Please complete it and remember that you must turn it in when you get your envelope
at the Examination Center in Chambers Building (or at the Registrar’s Office if you have a professor-administered exam).

Self-scheduled exams are based on a strong honor system. Faculty are being asked again this year to emphasize it in
each of their classes and to solicit continuing student support.

Resolution Favors Improved Phone System

By MARK GERGEN
Staff Writer

WRECKED AGAIN

SGA Examines Centrex System

A resolution calling for the installation of a Centrex system at Davidson was passed at Tuesday’s SGA Senate meeting. The
Senate also heard reports from Dr. Meredith Hall and SGA Vice-President John Guthrie.

Lex Veazey presented to the Senate a resolution calling for the implementation of a Centrex system at Davidson. The resolution
condemns the present system as being slow, costly, inefficient, and not responsive to student demands. Veazey reported to the Senate
that there are 185 rooms with phones on campus, of which 175 are wall phones, and 78 have long cords.

“98 percent of the students responding favor a voluntary Centrex system,” stated Veazey, “while 38 percent favor an involuntary Centrex
system.” Inquiries with three campuses in the area found Chapel Hill, UNCC, and Winthrop all using a Centrex system with
costs ranging from $6.25 to $7.50 a month in service charges. Veazey added, “All colleges with a Centrex system liked
it.” The advantage of a Centrex system is that there would be no additional cost to students in the first
year. Veazey estimated students have already spent...

Building Up And Tearing Down

(Continued from page 1)

Blain Butner summed up the issue, stating: “The students got f—-ed.” Censorship came up earlier in the term when Students
Will H. Terry removed THE DAVIDSONIAN from the faculty-administration mail room because he “was offended at what was written.” A
poem written by former DAVIDSONIAN Associate Editor Steve Canterbury in the newspaper was the bone of contention. The poem was
based on Alan Ginsberg’s “America” and as with much of Ginsberg’s work, the word “fuck,” appearing in the version, created
a furor. Terry claimed it was his job to “protect the good name of Davidson College.” Many people feel Davidson
is an...

Davidson deemed it necessary to lock up Watts Dorm. Terry claimed that “students have to realize that Davidson is a
part of the...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested."real world," and ideal, and this poem did not at
that the security methods all reflect what I consider to. Were needed. A key card, be an accurate picture of
the system, where coeds use a card to automatically unlock on first floor windows. Terry points out that the safeguards
are only in Watts, since men live on the lower floors of Belk and in Little. When asked why men
couldn’t live on the first floor of Watts, Terry said: "I don’t feel it would be a good idea to
put men in the form with freshman women. The women should be together as a class."

Coeds, those on the first floor, expressed: "I’m old enough to my own door," said Carol Watkins. Others called the
screens a fire escape hazard. Most felt they should be removed.

The fall of 1974 saw many issues and problems raised. Some were answered, but most remain old issues never solved.
Implementation somewhere in the neighborhood of $3,600 this year in installation fees, while the permanent installation of a Centrex system
would only have cost $4,000. Under the resolution, the college would pay the initial cost of installation. Veazey added, "Another
advantage would be the ease of installing phone service each year; just switch on the phone from the hall." Veazey
concluded by stating, "The only reason the college doesn’t want Centrex is because they will lose the system they now
have in the administration building, which for them is cheaper. So it comes down to whether the school wants to
do something for the students." An amendment to change the entire resolution to just a basic statement of Senate’s wishes
on the point failed 2-17. The main motion was passed.

Services he provides contract to the Senate. He gave the Senate some statistics on what he has been doing, while
stating that the service he has provided shouldn’t be judged from a statistical point. "People in Davidson are not learning
how to deal with life," stated Hall, stressing that too much on an education.

Vice-President John Guthrie gave his report on the meeting with Davidson Mayor Sadler on the housing issue. Guthrie stated that
he found "the meeting both disappointing and unproductive," but went on to add that if the mayor could accomplish his
goals, a lot will have been achieved. What Mayor Sadler has decided to do is to apply for a loan
and build low rent garden-type apartments. Davidson College is in this by providing the survey necessary in applying for the
loan. At the moment, Grey House and Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity have both agreed to provide manpower and an economics
professor C. E. is coordinating. John Munce was appointed to fill an opening in the Governance Committee.

Davidsonian Executive Editor: MARK DEATON
Operations Manager: BILL ELLETT
JEFF SICH

Managing Editors: LARRY MIMMS, MATTHEW COVINGTON, DAVID TRADER, MARK WILENSKY, STEVE JOHNSON

Assistant Managing Editors: JOE DUNCAN, CHUCK KENNON, GLENN BALLARD, GREG DUNN

Assistant Business Manager: BRUCE CORSER

Contributing Editors: VINCE RABIL, DON BENSON

Sports Editor: ANDY LAMAS

Assistant Sports Editor: ERIC WALKER

Senior News Editors: RICKY BELL, RICHARD ROMEYN

Circulation: CHARLIE SHEPHERD, CHUCK HARMON, GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Photography Editor: THOM NICOLL

Typist: KEVIN BROQDE, GUS SUCCOP, PAUL MITCHELL, CAMILLE CATHEY

Contributors this week: Bob Enright, Anne Ficklen, Mark Gergen, Pete Goodman, Wayne Kennon, Marc Menchel, Laura Moses, Carlyle Sherrill, Frank
Stiefel, and Mark Yow.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Advertising Manager: Lee Hudspeth, William Gulledge.
