cats' tracks
By LESTER ABERGER

In a secret vote, Davidson’s football players made it clear that they did not want Bob Mosketti to be their
new head coach. The varsity players exhibited an unheard-of sense of activism. The move shows that the athletes are concerned
about the future of their sport at Davidson and that they are unwilling to accept a passive role.

The tradition here of players vs. coaches has been rooted in apathy and secrecy. Objections were spoken behind closed doors
and out of the public eye. The football players should be commended for their concern and willingness to take action.
In light of this, it is imperative for the college to include an active varsity football representative on the committee
that will select the new head coach. A player who participates in the football program here would undoubtedly be a
most aware, informed, and sensitive observer of the football team. Such a person would be highly attuned to the coaching
needs of our football team. As far as I know, this would be unprecedented. But by placing an active ball
player on the selection committee, Davidson would show that it is aware of and concerned with the needs of its
athletes.

The new athletic policy as outlined in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN evokes a few comments. The athletic director is the key
man in the new program. He determines the football and basketball budgets and administers funds to the minor sports. It
is his job to prescribe the duties of the coaching staff. Most important, he is called on to render a
complete study of the staff needs for all sports. In short, Cartmill, the new athletic director, has a great responsibility.
Obviously, the administration and the Trustees have great faith in Cartmill. It is good policy to usher in a new
athletic era at Davidson with a new athletic director. We can be sure that Cartmill will be under close scrutiny
during the next few months.

Advice? As he goes about completing his various duties, he should frequently consult the people participating in the sports programs.
A viable, effective athletic program at Davidson can work only when it is designed to meet the needs of the
participants themselves. When these things are so, then Davidson’s athletic policy will really be "essential elements in the life of
the college."

... Outdoor Track (Continued from 8)

B-baller Eppa Rixey cleared 6'5”. Tim (Weasel) Rogers could be a major source of points on the track for Martin's
troops in this event, along with returnees Greg Love and John Stanfield. Trumbo in the 120 Highs, and by Hal
Paul and Mark Postove in the 440 Intermediate hurdles.

The “heavers” in the middle of the ovals this year will feature senior Steve Shankweiler as premier shot-putter, with able
assistants Allen Schaberg and Marc Menchel. Shankweiler and Gi...

Davidsonian February 1, 197

JVs Use Defensive Tactics En Route To Fine 8-2 Record
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Assistant Managing Editor

The Davidson Junior Varsity basketball...The team, currently 8 and 2, is plainly an example of a good team that has
become an excellent one through the virtues of true team play. The individual contributions are of little consequence as compared
to the overall success of the team as a unit. Coach Jim Larranaga names defense as the team’s strength. He
emphasizes that it is team defense, and good team defense at that. “We have learned a lot about team defense,
especially in the last few games... We held Lees-McRae scoreless for six minutes in the second half of that game,”
said Larranaga. “We played good defense against Wake Forest too, although we lost.

“Our main problem thus far has been inconsistency at the offensive end of the floor. We either score or have
a turnover,” Larranaga said. “I think our inexperience is at least partially responsible for these turnovers, which of course we
don’t want.” The team has been relying heavily on the playmaking of two freshmen, Marvin Lively and Jerry Stallworth, who
had never played in the guard position before coming to Davidson. Larranaga names this kind of inexperience as the reason
behind many of the turnovers that have plagued the team during their first 10 games.

In the last six games, apparently after it became evident that the team was good, the opponents have been pressing
the young Cats full court. This has forced situations in which the team’s inexperience could show. Through a period of
adjustment, both can become fine guards. The team wins because it is a team. “We have had to have from
high school. We have had to rely on everyone contributing in his own way,” said Larranaga.

Steve Trusghich has high school marks of 14'6" in the pole vault and 22'6" in the long jump. Don’t get
in the way of Bill Ralston, Mike Pappas, or Mike Merryworth as they throw the javelin for points this year.
Other contenders in the pole vault will be school record holder (13'3") Woody Van and possibly freshman John Lewis. Other
entrants in the long jump include vets Tom Case and Hal Paul. Martin is counting on Case to lead Crouch
and Paul in the triple jump.

The team has a 77.7 average per game, and one certainly to be proud of. However, defense is the real
story. The team has hit on a high percentage of their shots. This is "(Staff photo by Goodman) EASY DOES
IT. Good defense and strong rebounding have marked the success of this year's J.V. team. Breakaway layups like this one
have become common.

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
COMM LL, Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
241 NW. Main St.

PEPPY’S PIZZA BARN
Family Sized Pizza
550 N. Main Ph. 663-2792
Clip This Coupon
