March 22, 1974
The Davidsonian

Stone Modifies P.E. For Juniors, Seniors
By RICHARD ROMEYN
Senior News Editor

The physical education program next year will differ from the present program in several respects. Director of Physical Education Chip
Stone has decided to modify some of the course offerings and to require all juniors and seniors who have not
fulfilled their P.E. requirement to participate in a scheduled program. In the past, juniors and seniors had been able to
take proficiency tests to fulfill the requirements. As of next year, this will no longer be the case. The tests
will be open only to freshmen and sophomores.

Those juniors and seniors who have not demonstrated proficiency in four individual and one team sport as required for graduation
will have two options. They can either enroll in classes of instruction in various activities, which will be offered next
year on the same basis they are offered this year, or take one of the two new seminars which are
planned. Those who could gain credit by completing a seminar covering such topics as “the psychology of sport, and the
value of sport.” Stone indicated that both of these courses would meet on a regular basis and attendance would be
required.

Those who lack only one credit can enroll in what Stone refers to as “a program of assorted activities.” It
would meet three times a week and include such activities as weight lifting and other conditioning programs, fencing, and other
indoor sports. Stone hopes that such a program will eliminate the last-minute rush to fulfill requirements which became traditional in
the last several years. As of the beginning of this term, 36 seniors had not completed their requirements. However, all
but eight have made arrangements to do so. Approximately 70 juniors have not completed their P.E. requirements.

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan indicated that he intends to support the P.E. requirement for graduation as
stated in the college catalogue. “If they don’t fulfill the requirement, they don’t graduate,” said Bevan. “I’m going to be
as firm as can be.” Only the President and the Executive Committee of the Faculty have the power to override
a decision by the Vice-President for academic affairs.

Next year will also see some changes in P.E. course offerings. Stone said he plans to expand the most popular
activities and points to sailing, jogging, and ballet as those which will most likely be affected. Some of the less
popular offerings such as squash may not be offered.

College Calendar
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Managing Editor

The committee considering school calendar changes for the 1975-76 academic year held a meeting in Perkins Auditorium Wednesday to hear
comments and suggestions on several calendars they have been studying. The committee is composed of Professor of Religion David Kaylor,
chairman; Professor of Biology David Grant; Professor of Philosophy John Young; and sophomore John Taylor. The committee gave brief descriptions
of three calendar systems: a 15-week semester system, a four-one-four system, and variations on the three-three-three system that the college
is presently following. The committee is also considering the merit of a year-round program at Davidson, but this question was
not pursued at the meeting.

Two semester systems, a traditional one beginning September 15 and February 2 and an early semester plan beginning September 2
and January 12, were discussed. Young cited such student benefits as an extended add-drop period and increased time for research,
experiments, etc. Also, faculty members could have more time on...

Managing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Sports Editor:
MARK WILENSKY

Senior News Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
TOM BRUCE
JOE EARLE
ANDY LAMAS

News Editors:
STEVE BELL
HARRIETT HODGES
FRANCIS TOWNSEND
LEX VEAZEY
PIPETTE GOODMAN

Editorial Consultant:
ERIC WALKER

Advertising Manager:
JEFF SICH

Typist:
PATTI SHANKWEILER

Contributors this week:
Ann Bode, Tracy Charles, Woody Connette, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Joe McMillan, Frazier Marsh, and Vince Rabil.

Associate Editors:
ALAN BLAKLEY
DOUG BROWN
STEVE CANTERBURY
TODD EADES
MARY HOBBIE
GUS SUCCOP
MARY TURNER
MILES WARD

Operations Manager:
BILL ELLETT

Assistant Managing Editors:
MATTHEW COVINGTON
CHARLES KENNON
LARRY MIMMS

Assistant Sports Editors:
LESTER ABERGER
PETER CELENTANU

Assistant Business Manager:
DAVID TRADER

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
JEFF NEIKIRK

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKCOM
PAUL MITCHELL

The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.their sabbaticals under a semester system. Young added that he
thinks the general atmosphere at Davidson would be more relaxed under this system. There would also be an opportunity for
shorter, more intense courses within the 15-week semesters. Possible problems with the system include how to work in sequence courses
like the humanities program, how many courses should be required each term, and how to schedule lab periods for larger
science classes.

The four-one-four system involves having two 14-week terms in the fall and spring and having a one-month term from January
5 through February 3. Taylor cited the advantages of this program. Students could concentrate intensely on a single class. Groups
could work on current political, social, and scientific problems. Taylor said that he would benefit from a current affairs class
because it is difficult to keep up with events under the pressured workload at Davidson. Also, the four-one-four system offers
possibilities for internships and short-term foreign study which would be in the range of more students financially. He suggested that
the four-week period might be used to give students practice in independent study that they may not otherwise get.

Many of the objections to the semester system also apply to the four-one-four plan, and Professor of Physics Robert Manning
added that one month may not be enough time for certain in-depth research or experiments. Possible variations on the four-one-four
systems include a four-four-one (with the short term at the end of the school year) and the one-four-four (with the
short term at the beginning of the school year).

SGA Settles Overdue Affairs With Aplomb
By STEVE BELL
News Editor

The Senate realized a quorum at its meeting Tuesday night and was able to clear away a backlog of items.
In major business, the Senate passed a motion from Senator Bob Corlew recommending that federal tax deductibility be extended to
college tuition. Corlew’s motion argued that, “Whereas education is no longer a luxury for the few, but it is a
necessity for all the young people of America,” educational tuition up to $500 per year should be made tax deductible.
The motion passed 10-3, with two abstentions, and will be forwarded to North Carolina's U.S. Congressmen for their consideration.

In other major business, the Senate heard a report from the SGA Psychological Counseling Liaison Committee (SCC). The college administration
recently announced that its support of Meredith Hall, the school’s clinical psychologist, will be reduced next year. This leaves the
SGA in an uncomfortable position, as the Senate reaffirmed its own subsidy of Hall's activities just last year. John Munce,
parliamentarian of the Senate, is chairing the PCLC. Munce's committee is seeking a redefinition of the SGA’s position in light
of these developments and is considering the possibility that its funds for Hall will need to be increased next year.

The Senate also considered a motion calling for a reorganization of the Campus Tax Council (CTC) to include five students,
the coordinator of student activities, one member of the faculty, and as co-chairmen, the College treasurer and a member of
the Senate Executive Committee. The motion passed 15-1. Steve Smith, current chairman of the CTC, went on to propose Dana
English, John Randolph, Todd Eades, Bob Corlew, and Duncan Moore for the student positions on the committee. All of Smith’s
suggestions were confirmed by the Senate.

In other business, the Senate revised some tentative decisions that had been reached the week before. Tentative appropriation of funds
enabling Karl Goodhouse and Laurie Dunn to attend a Student Health Care Conference was confirmed. However, full support for the
National Student Association Southern Area Conference was extended to Mark Rabil and Bo Hunter only. Vince Rabil and Bo Phillips
will receive partial support, and Janet Whitehurst, Lynne Keener, and Steve Bell were cut off completely.

The Senate also passed a motion from Senator Alan Blakley requesting that North Carolina Governor James Holshouser review the “Lazy-B
Stable Case.” It also heard reports from Blakley and the SGA Admissions Committee, Ed Willingham and the Security Committee, Jim
Goodloe and the Self-Study Committee of Students, and Bob Meyer on the Food Conference.
