«The Davidsonian Vol. LXIV, No. Eleven Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 Published Weekly By Davidson College Students December 20, 1974

Psycho DC Struggles to Cope with Pressure

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Senior News Editor

“Lots of students who come to Davidson don’t have a realistic outlook about what it is like here academically,” said Chief of Psychological Services at Harvard University, Dr. Powell. “The expectation is that it will be pretty much like high school. Davidson is clearly an elite institution, and you need to recognize that the competition is very severe at a school like this,” Powell said to an audience of about 100 at a symposium Wednesday, Dec. 11, to discuss ways to cope with academic pressure at Davidson.

Powell met several times with students and faculty during the day, and the symposium closed with a small group discussion of possible ways to ease academic pressure. Dean of Students Will R. Terry, who introduced Powell, told the morning audience that talking about pressure at Davidson is like trying to talk about the weather. “This problem has been brought to my attention rather crucially this year. Some pressures here are useful, but others are rather foolish,” said Terry.

Powell believes that much of the problem with academic pressure is internally generated, although he acknowledges the influence of parents and friends. He also said that professors who don’t realize or don’t care about the effect of grades on students add to the problem. “However, the problem develops from the people who come to schools like Davidson,” emphasized Powell. “These people are used to being in the top 10 percent of their class, for the most part. But when they get to Davidson, only 10 percent of them can be in the top of their class.”

Powell was impressed with the academic standards that Davidson sets for its students, and does not believe that these standards should be lowered. The quality of professors also impressed him. “Look at the faculty here. The majority of them have PhDs from major universities in their fields,” he said.

Powell believes that much of the problem of coping with pressure at Davidson is reflected across the country. “Students are increasingly concerned about good grades and are depressed when they don’t get them. Depression and the fact that more students are being caught cheating on exams are indications of students attempting to deal with the pressure they’re feeling.”

Since the late 1960s, a number of significant changes have taken place in students and faculty, according to Powell. Students seem more interested in doing well academically and in what they will be doing with their educations later on. Generally, the number of English and Humanities majors has dropped, although Powell admitted that this doesn’t apply to Davidson. Fewer students are talking to one another than before. The Harvard psychologist visited several dormitories the night before the symposium, and he commented that there were a lot of people behind doors. He was also surprised at the number of students studying in the library early on Wednesday morning. Powell believes that fewer people are getting stoned than before, although alcohol consumption is still high. He added that religion is beginning to reach back into the student population. Across the country, the casual sex relationship has declined.

Powell was impressed with the number of students playing varsity or intramural sports at Davidson. “Participating in a sports activity is helpful in dealing with pressures; it provides a catharsis.” Citing Conrad Lorenz, Powell added, “It gives us an opportunity for fellowship and permits one to discipline one’s instincts.”

Co-education also changes a college for the better, but the speaker added that women face a particularly acute set of pressures. “There is a tendency of women who are placed in a co-ed setting to be a little less assertive academically. In a co-ed school, women are prone to become second-class citizens.” Powell cited examples of women who receive degrees and then spend the rest of their lives as frustrated housewives.A committed suicide. The psychologist added that he has observed them to feel inferior; fifth grade female Bese Soper have to remember that they also must deal with pressures. "A lot of the people here and at other places look back at the 1960s through rosy glasses," said Powell. "Professors remember the positive changes in education in the 1960s and miss the enthusiasm—the elan. Also, you must remember that opportunities for faculty movement are not as easy these days, and professors are fighting with feelings of stagnation and depression." Powell advised students to express their feelings to faculty members. "Take a faculty member to lunch," he said. "They need to be told how they are doing; they need to be approved of."

Concluding the morning session, Powell commented, "You're victims of your own choice here, whether you're students, faculty, or administrators." He advised several ways for students to ease the feelings of pressure. "Humanize the rigor of study. Study more effectively. Most of you come to faculty members to discuss ways to ease unnecessary academic pressure at Davidson." Later in the afternoon, he met with students and a handful of professors in Chambers banquet hall for an informal discussion session. The conversation centered around possibilities for students at Davidson to experiment with different educational experiences like JYA, career service, or simply traveling for a term or so. Students expressed skepticism over doing these things at Davidson. Many were dismayed because they had never taken the chance to support themselves for a while and felt that they were not able to apply what they were learning at Davidson. One student who had taken six years off from Davidson to work with Vista and to travel through Asia and other places affirmed that the academic world seems more relevant for him. A student who had been on JYA last year said that the experience was frightening in some ways, but there was an incredible feeling of freedom.

After the symposium, the psychologist reiterated how impressed he was with Davidson, although he acknowledged the seriousness of the problem of pressure. "A lot of people don’t feel that they are getting an education on the way to their 3.5’s. What’s missing are opportunities for personalization of knowledge." Powell cautioned that his impressions were superficial since he had been at Davidson for only a day or two. However, he encouraged more thought and action directed toward enriching the curriculum. The psychologist was particularly surprised at the timidity of the students at Davidson to try new things. He also emphasized the predominance of abstract discussion and reflective thinking during his visit.

"You worry too much about grades from schools where teachers wanted you to recite facts, whether they admitted it or not. You’ve got to realize that time plus effort does not necessarily equal high grades. You need to learn to anticipate the cognitive style of thinking of the professor. Have some balance in your life. Do something that makes you feel good that isn’t academic. Remember that this too will pass; you don’t have meritocracy in even top professions as you do here at Davidson."

Early in the afternoon, Powell said that students are beginning to experiment with multiple careers, but that many people are unexcited or bored with their work. He said that students at Davidson have a great opportunity to try different and new ways of learning. Powell added that one must learn to relate to others. "This is an important place to learn how to understand other people. Many people expected no less."

Powell urged students to take an active role in confronting the problem of pressure. "Action must be student-based. The faculty will listen to the students where they won’t listen to administrators." He added that the faculty at Davidson has a greater capacity for change than students and administrators realize.

(See PRESSURE, page 8)

THE DAVIDSONIAN ceases publication until March 9, 1975.