Ten September 27, 1974 The Davidsonian Curious Dr. By CAPTAIN AMERICA and BUCKY With THE BEACHBALL and THE MAD THINKER
(Ed. note: Dr. Q speaks in a tongue similar to Southeast Asian dialects. Think Chinese, a la Charlie Chan.)

Herro, Dr. Q. here. I have temporarily taken control of this asinine column written by Nomad (formerly C. A.), Y.B.,
B.B., M.T., and the partridge in a pear tree. I have sent the previously mentioned to the Q-zone where they
are debating the benefits of peanut butter and celery (or if you prefer, celery and cottage cheese). I have transported
myself to this space-time continuum with the aid of Yellow Craw (not crow... craw!), my sister's first cousin on my
bastard uncle’s side.

According to earth history books, Moses died about four eons ago, give or take a “Gilgamesh” or two. However, I
have seen the man operating under the name of Wirensky occupying space * Attention! (lots of it) in this dimension.
This is a paradox of two revels. He has transported himself from the mountain of burning bush to the valley
where bush is high. But please forgive, I digress.

I have seen some interesting things since my arrival in this primitive dimension. Upon my arrival on solar day 49.7513,
strangely called Wednesday the 18th by this planet’s inhabitants, I stumbled onto what I can only assume to be some
sort of religious ceremony celebrating the rites of puberty. For those who have not reached it (this means you Tenafly;
don’t worry, the signs are immediate and rapid). The ceremony began when the pubescent female heralds chanted incantations out of
the third-floor windows of the Tabernacle, Watts. These heralds were of a religious order called the Zoo, in deference to
the worship of animals, evidently. The chants of the heralds incited the males of Cannon Juniors and Seniors to load
holy water into large canisters and run over into the tabernacle floor, causing increasing religious frenzy amongst the participants. The
holy water ceremony continued until all the males and females, and their abodes, were baptized.

The preliminary rites finished, the crowd took on a more reverent attitude as they gathered beneath a certain part of
the tabernacle called ‘the Sty,’ a place where pigs live, I believe. Another example of primitive animal worship. The high
priestess, referred to reverently as “drunk crazy and thunder thighs” (probably terms of endearment), then performed a ceremonial function that
left the crowd spellbound (or horny, as earthlings call it). This observance involved the removal of clothing behind a silk
screen. This effect was such that the worshippers were raised to new levels of religious fervor as they chanted ritualistically
“Go Go, More More... take it all off... somebody pull up the shade.” The male high priest then appeared and
did a similar act behind a silk screen, finishing with...

(continued from it 8) Sept. 28 Furman Charlotte-Mecklenburg CC Festival Campbell, St. Andrews Campbell opportunities,” he added.14 VMI. Washington Lee
.....:.... "6 oe ee * io talking oe ne team, oome & VOUGMCIIRINME occas sos cee tes cee es Here
. nothing , high hopes. feels that Davi “can sta = 24 -Pive- Way Metts so cess es a Here
= with anyone,” pio inted id x OWN - GC: Slate Meals NN ass There % the game this ‘Friday
at Cha- 36 28 High Point. Elon, Guilford .. 2... . High Point % pel ag I hme Friday’s -Nov.
2 S y Fae Seer ere Se Williamsburg % contest a e here, as ey Nov. 2. Southern Conference iamsburg
a incu biggest ais KERR KKK KKK RK KK KKK KK KKH HF Season.

Scholarships available in nuclear propulsion field ... Over $500/ month Applicants must be male, U. S. citizens, 19-26 years old
and have completed a minimum of one year of college physics (maximum 10 months) and mathematics through integral calculus. For
further information see the Navy Officer Team on campus, Sept. 30 through Nov. 2, or write: Lt. G. A. Lewis
Navy Recruiting District P. O. Box 2506 Raleigh, N.C. 27602

Get involved in the community, Help the YMCA Youth, Trampoline Teachers, Wrestling Coaches, Exercise Teachers. Call the YMCA at 892-1761
for information.

YMCA NEEDS HELP

simulated masturbation and orgasm. This seemed to be done in reference to main activity of the males. At this point,
the moon goddess was worshipped with the appearance of male posteriors at the window of Cannon. The crowd was then
appeased by the arrival of a rotund court jester. His act ended when he was doused by holy water.

Finally, the readers of the pre-pubescents, realizing the ritual had been fulfilled, calmed the crowd with cries of "somebody’s been
hurt.” The ceremony was finished when ‘security,’ two oddly dressed males, complete with weapons, dispersed the crowd. Personally, being a
dimension traveler from the W-zone, I have never witnessed such barbaric primitive customs in my life. But what was I
to expect from a culture run by beings such as Abbo, the Axe Man, Smiring F, and Rah-Rah Friars. The
Q-zone is much more logical. I leave you with ancient wisdom from the W-zone: “We’ll call security” and “it out
your shorts.”

Attention Davidsonian

PURE WATER! Trash belongs in trash cans, not in our streams and rivers. Do your part to keep America a
great place to live. Woodsy Owl has a list of ways you can help fight pollution. It's easy for kids
to read, and it's free when you write Woodsy Owl, Forest Service, U.S.D.A., Washington, D.C. 20250.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. GENERAL CONTRACTORS * P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611 MOORESVILLE, N.C. M. A. WICKER President and
Treasurer BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary

American Medical College Admissions Profile, Inc., offers a computerized analysis to assist you in more effectively assessing your qualifications and
more accurately directing your medical school applications. Your MCAT scores, grade point average, college attended, state of residence, age and
other criteria are used in a comparative analysis with the previously accepted class at the medical schools you select. Contact
your pre-medical advisor for further information or write A.M.C.A.P., Inc., Box 8747, Boston, Massachusetts 02114.
