Six ACOSTUMED TO BUFFOONERY; Costumes by Carol Barber and wit by Goldini keep the Hodson Hall audience in stitches.

The Joy Of Eating

By BOB ENRIGHT and MARK YOW

Without seeking in any way to downgrade the quality of Southern cookery, it remains a fact that a displaced Midwesterner
will usually drool in vain in his search for the legendary hofbrau haus south of the border. But alas, he
need look no further than the Rheinland Haus, a quaint retreat located incongruously in a shopping center on Charlotte’s Park
Road.

And in keeping with the spirit, October is Oktoberfest month at the Rheinland Haus, conjuring up visions of that jovial
celebration (and of Lowenbrau, Dortmunder, et al) up Nawth. But the subdued atmosphere here is no comparison with the wild
revelry connected with the real thing, and maybe that’s just as well.

But if you like German or Kosher food, this is the place to find it. The menu is not expansive
(even a little disappointing), being comprised mostly of sandwiches, but the fare is reasonably priced. Sauerbraten, the “prime” offering to
a native gourmand, is priced at $2.75, which includes ample servings of sauerkraut, German potato salad, baked beans, and pumpernickel
bread, the quality of which all passed our rigorous inspection. Dessert specialties include the favorite apple strudel and cheesecake, both
superb.

Of course, no German feast is complete without resorting to the trademarks of the native diet: sausage, cheese, and beer,
not necessarily in that order. The former two are offered as part of an hors d’oeuvre tray priced at $3.50,
and smothered in succulent sauerkraut.

As for the beer, (the quality of which was substantially attested to by a coterie of nuns who frequently happen
to show up at the same time we do), we must admit rather sheepishly to having been denied its pleasures,
for reasons known only to the Rheinland Haus and the state of North Carolina. It seems that the state which
made brown bagging famous has also ordained that legal age may be established at the whim of individual restaurants, which
in the case of the Rheinland Haus has been set at 20. Maybe that’s their way of reflecting on the
potency of the house specialty (Lowenbrau), but lest you accept that theory remember that their policy includes Schlitz, also.

Anyways, swallowing our pride and repressing our thirst, we settled for iced tea, which is at least cold, wet, and
considerably cheaper.

The Bavarian decor of the surroundings is complete down to the organ, jukebox, and walls lavishly decorated with ornamental beer
steins. It is dark, (and therefore rather romantic), meaning that the party in the corner is subject to being forgotten
by the waitress, an occurrence either upsetting or convenient depending on the circumstances.

The dining room is also supplied with a television set, providing an excellent environment for enjoying the Kentucky Derby, World
Series, or Game of the Week, while munching on the hors d’oeuvres and sipping the brew. Who knows, someday they
may even provide their patrons with the melodic strains of the oom-pah-pah.

So, even if you’re not yet 20, (or don’t like beer anyways), dining at the Rheinland Haus is a pleasant
and relaxing respite from the rigors of Davidson.

Next Week—Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea

November 1, 1974

The Davidsonian

A Review By FRANCIS TOWNSEND Staff Writer

The ripples of laughter which could be heard from time to time echoing from within Hodson Hall constitute only one
reason why the Davidson Drama department’s first major production of the year, “The Servant of Two Masters,” should be rated
a fair success. The play is a comedy performed in the style of an Italian genre which emerged during the
Sixteenth Century. This genre, the commedia dell’arte, is composed of a group of plays which utilized conventions such as type
characters (usually masked) and type scenes, and were performed by groups of traveling actors on small outdoor stages set up
in villages. Much of the dialogue was improvised, and an atmosphere of relaxed informality pervaded the performances.

Goldini’s “Servant of Two Masters” differs from these traditional comedies in that his play was written during the eighteenth century
when the true commedia dell’arte was fast disappearing. As a result, The Servant of Two Masters may be read with
a complete script, unlike its extemporaneous predecessors. One of the inherent difficulties of the play is that Goldini attempts to
preserve in a script the flavor of a dramatic genre normally filled with ad-libbing and improvisation.

The cast performing the play is likewise beset with the problem that they too must attempt to contribute to the
formal element of the play. A balance must be struck between a presentation which is too calculated to make the
quasi-improvisational nature of the material apparent, and one which is chaotic. Director Rupert Barber is capable at this balance surpassingly
well. Nothing in the play appears forced, while the three long acts (about 45 minutes) are broken up by intervals
and led elsewhere, a revealing puppet show.

Patsy Arnold and Grak Burnette,

By RUSSELL CARTER Staff Writer

Jackson Browne’s new album, “Late for the Sky,” is a rare blend of appealing sounds and provocative thoughts. The same
musicians who provided the subtle piano, acoustic guitar and! Violin accompaniment on Browne’s second album, "For Everyman," plays with him
once again. The basic sound on the new album then, is very similar to that on the previous one, though
the band has, with time, become a tighter musical unit. With voice lessons behind him, Browne’s vocals are stronger and
more expressive than ever. An analysis of the lyrics on "Late for the Sky" reveals that the author continues to
explore the themes of love and illusion (which have preoccupied his thoughts on earlier albums) and that he has presented
a lyrical and musical restatement. It is nevertheless a new, highly polished work of art.

The album begins with the title cut in which Browne is looking back over and questioning a period of time
when he felt he was deeply in love. He is speaking of a specific relationship. It is evident by the
first chord and line of the song that the author has become disillusioned with his affair (Now the words had
all been spoken/and somehow the feeling still wasn’t right). He is tracing his steps from the beginning, trying to see
why they eventually "vanished into the air." He arrives at the somewhat surprising and depressing conclusion that both he and
his lover had been deceived—that they had never really experienced the love (And when you see through the eyes/there was
nobody I’d ever known). He recognizes what the power of love can mean (Now for me some words come easy/but
I know they don’t mean that much/Compared with the things that are said in a lover's touch). Finally, he decides
that he has erred in trying to act as if his relationship were a beneficial one (How long have I
been drifting alone through the night/How long have I been dreaming I could make it right/If I closed my eyes
and tried with all my might/To be the one you love).

In "Fountain of Sorrow," Browne makes it clear that his sorrow over his shattered illusions is but a part of
the general sorrow in his life. He implies that the fountain of sorrow (or of loneliness and despair) becomes the
fountain of life if (as he admits has been the case in his own past) he is unable to sustain
a loving relationship with people in this existence.

In "The Late Show," Browne, in increasingly desperate terms, emphasizes his fears. In the first three verses, he speaks repeatedly
of his loneliness which is due in part to people’s coldness toward one another (Maybe people only ask you how
you’re doing/’Cause that’s easier than letting on how little they could really care). In the fourth verse, he says he’s
sick and tired of "all this circling/And glimpses of the end" and he constructs an appealing fantasy image that could
save him from his emptiness and despair. "Look," he says: it’s like you're standing in the window of a house
nobody lives in, And I'm sitting in a car across the way. Let’s just say-- it’s an early model Chevrolet,
Let's just say-- it’s a warm and windy day. You go and pack your sorrows Trashman comes tomorrow Leave it
at the curb, and we will just go away.

It’s the scene pictured on the cover of the album, adapted from Rene Magritte’s surrealistic painting entitled "Empire of Light."
A Chevrolet sits in what appears to be a dusk-like atmosphere in front of a dark house. Yet the sky
above is a shining and brilliant midday blue. The painter says that in his own art an inspired thought which
resembles the visible thing becomes what was offered to it. To be sure, Jackson Browne would like to believe this
but in the next song, "The Road and the Sky," he clearly rejects the notion. The sky may appear to
be a bright blue now, but he asks: Can you see those dark clouds gathering up ahead, and adds, "They’re
gonna wash this planet clean like the Bible said." And finally, he warns, "Don’t think it won’t happen just because
it hasn’t happened yet." His doubts and fears lead inevitably to a vision of an apocalypse.

"The Road and the Sky" is a well-executed rock ’n’ roll tune, straight and simple. If its fast rhythm and
steady beat are distracting, they stand in direct contrast to the subtle piano by Larry Zack and violin by David
Lindley accompaniment on the following cut, "For a Dancer." In terms of poetry and theme, this song stands above all
others on "Late for the Sky." The song begins with a description of another particular love affair which has faded
in the night (I don’t remember losing track of you/You were always dancing in and out of view/I must have
thought that you would always be around).

He then speaks of the general consequences of his particular failures and uncertainties, and again these consequences take on apocalyptic
proportions. Employing the sky imagery again, he urges that we not ignore the situation at hand: Keep a fire burning
in your eye And pay attention to the open sky You never know what may be coming.
