a ES TEM SS PE SESS SEE SEY EMER TT ATT ET II TT = Davidson

"THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING." - Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

FOUR
NOVEMBER 1, 1974

Letter Of The Law

THE DAVIDSONIAN has tried to provide an open forum for the expression of a variety of opinions in the Davidson
College community. Our "Letters to the Editor" column has been an important aspect of these efforts. Submitted letters have been
included regardless of their ideological viewpoint. They have been changed or omitted only when in need of grammatical revision or
when space limitations did not permit their publication. We think this is an essential portion of our service to THE
DAVIDSONIAN’s readership. Such diverging comments often enrich and guide the development of a "free" press.

Yet, we feel it necessary to express a word of caution over such letters. Our policy has been to print
as many letters as possible, but in many instances, those that we have received are blatantly libelous. These we cannot
print.

Fair comment and criticism with reference to matters of public interest or importance is acceptable since it is not for
malicious purpose or injury to reputation. Words which tend to expose a person to public hatred, shame, disgrace and ridicule,
or which tend to induce an ill opinion of one in the minds of right-thinking people, are libelous. We would
urge those who submit letters to the editor to be responsible in their comments and approaches. THE DAVIDSONIAN will not
offer a forum for an individual who wishes to personally attack or libel someone else. If those who submit letters
are to contribute to the advancement of high-quality journalism, they must maintain high-quality standards of reservation and responsibility.

Letter To The Editor

Administrators Take Pupils Over High-Minded Knee

To the Editor:

"When in the course of human events..." These are indeed the proud words of a heritage of single-minded American determination
in the pursuit of the high ideals of freedom and God-fearing decency. At last, the wanton course of human events
at Davidson College has been tempered by the sage and timely censorship of the school yearbook by administration officials. I
say at last, because my past years at Davidson College have been scarred by an inevitable awareness of the underlying
profligacy of the student body in general. Immorality and indecency have become the norms rather than the unthinkable, or certainly,
unspeakable exceptions.

There have been instances of gambling, card-playing, alcoholic consumption and narcotic drug use. More visibly, pornography abounds in the dormitories,
and not only movies, but shameless "skin" movies are regularly shown at the fraternity houses and even presented openly in
the guise of an acceptable part of certain classroom subject matter. All of this misconduct, in addition to flagrant pre-marital
co-habitory practices in the dormitories, constitutes an affront to all proper morality sufficient to sicken the stomachs of all right-thinking
Americans.

The recent efforts of certain members of the student body to permeate the school yearbook with their own brand of
scurrilous filth is just another outward symptom of a grave and foreboding moral sickness from within. I am proud to
say that I was raised by two old-fashioned, but far-sighted parents who knew that you have to beat God into
children if they are to learn right from wrong. I just hope that the administration’s taking the student body over
its wise and high-minded knee will signal the beginning of a long-awaited and much-needed return to the old ways and
values; eventually returning us to mandatory chapel, ROTC, coats and ties and the other ideals.we know, to be good and
right.
Robert Dennard '75
Davidson College
Thom Nicoll
Trustees Squelch Innovative Annual

I never have found a suitable response to that age-old query as to what is reality anyway, but lately I’ve
felt a little shakier on the point than usual. I think I’m losing my temporal orientation. Every day I check
the calendar to make sure this really is the 1970s. Whenever have you seen such neatly-dressed, clean-cut, politically indifferent students
at Davidson College? The religious groups are making their imposing presence felt and seen, campus-wide dances have returned live and
kicking from the grave, and the hoary institution of the Homecoming Queen has survived a malicious, insidious attack by certain
non-believers in the college community.

In case you haven’t heard about this latest stab-from-the-past, here’s the story: a certain eating house (I'll only use its
first initial, “A”) apparently either decided that the institution was too hoary to be respectable, or else they were just
being absurd, as usual, (“A”—Absurdista? Anarchists?) because their nominee, being of the male sex, was most unsuited for the appellation
“queen,” in the more traditional sense of the word. When news of this transvestite travesty leaked out on campus, those
who cherish the time-honored ceremony were duly aghast and let their feelings be seen. After all, wouldn’t this hurt the
feelings of the alumni and the more conventional contestants? they argued and complained.

Happily, justice being blind, but perfectly capable of hearing, the judges unanimously (4-0) booted the questionable candidate out of running,
and then tongue-lashed the irreverent conspirators at “A” for their lack of school spirit. Well, in spite of such an
imposing victory for the forces of the past, this couldn’t compare with the real time-bomb of the season, one that
really took us all back. In one fell swoop, our masterful administration managed to conquer the Ravages of Time and
to set the image of Davidson College back at least twenty years. I admit I wouldn’t have believed it possible,
but it’s done, and you can’t argue with facts, right?

With impulsive derisiveness and foresight that could only be described as later Nixonesque, the administration moved quickly to squelch efforts
by some to print two dirty words and some dirty pictures in the yearbook. This move, countering as it did
the trend of the last ten to twenty years to treat students more as adults or, at least adolescents, and
less as children, predictably attracted a great deal of attention in the news media, and the salvaging of Davidson’s Christianity
became hot-news all over the place.

Now, if that weren’t enough to get me confused, the reaction on campus would have finished the job. Among a
surprisingly large number of students and faculty, the rallying cry was heard: “Freedom of the press, yes, but only if
it’s in good taste!” This could only have been encouraging to the administration, who may have sent up this escapade
as a trial balloon, so to speak. Now that they have successfully stood in good stead against the forces of
student responsibility, one wonders what the next move will be. How would you feel about re-instating compulsory chapel on Tuesday
night? I don’t know. I’m still trying to figure it all out. I think our fifties nostalgia is spilling over
into reality. How you feel about that depends on your position, I guess, and I’ll leave it at that.

The Eictenie: Shidieee the scholar-creative allows high in dd, usal qreas. ———— o_o a ee —_ air apron rogue a
ative. bove, We no cae di hg horticulturalist obviously content
