Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
- Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

FOUR DECEMBER 20, 1974

Changing Of The Guard

The SGA elections this week not only mark the commencement of new terms of office for many capable students, but the graduation of many dedicated, hard-working leaders from important campus positions. We can ask no more of newly-elected SGA President John Munce than that he show the same degree of integrity and dedication that Blain Butner has displayed during the past year.

In reading the campaign platforms of both Munce and Rick Roylance, the student body is aware of the issues which face students, and especially the SGA Senate, during the coming year. We encourage Munce to firmly confront those problems concerning campus psychological counseling services, student housing, the laundry, campus food services, the College Union, the social system, and the Davidson community. We are hopeful that Munce will be able to initiate and coordinate meaningful student action in the year ahead.

As Michael Tanner completes his year as editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN with this issue, we also recognize the role of this paper in presenting and defining the issues which Davidson must confront. Tanner’s personal efforts and his recruitment and training of a large staff to succeed him will make this duty more realistically accomplishable.

We are particularly appreciative, in retrospect, of the work of John White during the past year as YM/WCA president. The strengthening of the ties between the college and the town, especially through the Ada Jenkins Center, owes much to his personal efforts. The Y Depot Thursday afternoon luncheons, which White recently organized as a means of solidifying the many disparate groups which seek positive changes in Davidson, also have tremendous potential. Indispensable to White’s administration has been the work of Kenny Eiler as director of the STEP program and that of Gary Stewart in planning a coffee house for the Davidson community in the depot.

We congratulate Sue Cunningham on her recent election as Y president. We anticipate the beginning of a successful Davidson community coffee house and increased student involvement in the Ada Jenkins and other community programs during her administration.

Through the efforts of College Union Board President Frazier Marsh, persons such as William F. Buckley Jr., Buckminster Fuller, Dick Gregory, and Daniel Berrigan have graced the Davidson campus. Programming entertainment at Davidson will probably always be a controversial subject, yet we feel that Marsh deserves praise for his efforts in providing Davidson with an admirable union program. We encourage newly-elected Union Board President Richard Wassen to begin immediately a strong social and co-curricular program for the college community.

Editorial space limitations leave us with names of many unsung heroes whose contributions to Davidson are no less impressive than the work of those mentioned above. We highly appreciate the motivation which has called these leaders to offer to Davidson College a fulfilling experience complementary to strict academics, and we anticipate increased activity from those who have accepted positions of responsibility for the coming year.

Artist-In-Residence

The Davidson campus is rarely so warmed with the presence of a guest as it was when Simon Bourgin visited here last week. Besides delivering several informative talks, Bourgin livened the discourse in several classes he attended. Socializing with many campus groups (he even made the Thursday night trek to Hattie’s), he demonstrated to Davidson the real possibility of increased interaction between guest speakers and the student body.

We urge the College Union Board to think seriously about the artist-in-residence concept as they program in the future. We feel that Bourgin’s availability after his lectures to discuss issues and to socialize with the members of the college community made him a far greater asset to Davidson than thoseSpeakers who spend only enough time here to deliver a lecture and catch their plane out of Charlotte. We are grateful to the Woodrow Wilson Senior Fellows Program for sharing Bourgin with us for the week, and we look forward to more programming in the future which allows for the establishment of similar relationships between the college community and distinguished guests.

Mike Tanner

Newspaper Depicts Changing Attitude

Only a few seniors probably remember the old days of THE DAVIDSONIAN. In the fall of 1971, the paper was edited by a small, close-knit staff which was responsible for most of the print shop work as well as the actual writing. THE DAVIDSONIAN’s emphasis was clearly on campus political issues. Rich Wilson devoted column after column to governance, the lingering social system question, the infant Honors College, and the remote possibility of coeducation.

In the fall of 1971, THE DAVIDSONIAN varied in length from 6 to 10 pages weekly. Printing was done on hot lead, seriously restricting the form and flexibility of the paper. Together with news, sports was a major focus. Those were the days when people seemed more interested in extensive, in-depth sports coverage. Who can forget all those five-column Joe Earle headlines: DAVE FAGG: EVERYMAN'S COACH. It goes almost without saying that the features section of THE DAVIDSONIAN hardly existed. Aside from letters to the editor and the weekly affronts of Cecil Burney and Gray Wilson, there was no features coverage. In short, it seemed that every event at Davidson took place either in a Chambers meeting room or in the proximity of Johnston Gym.

Of course, things are different now. The news section remains essential because new issues arise, but THE DAVIDSONIAN has expanded to give a greater variety of students than before the chance to contribute. We have printed book reviews, movie reviews, more student columns than ever, as well as human interest stories from the greater Davidson community. In short, one might say that THE DAVIDSONIAN is no longer strictly a tabloid newspaper; it has become a tabloid magazine of sorts. This will continue. New editorial plans include space for creative student writing and greater doses of the full-page feature and news article.

Why has this been done? The answer is simply that the staff felt like it. The purpose of THE DAVIDSONIAN is of course to report the news and to provide a vehicle for student expression, but above all, it is to give the staff the opportunity to express its views and to give voice to whatever student opinion it chooses. I hope that in the future THE DAVIDSONIAN will always respect the standards of responsible journalism, but I hope it makes it clear that if it seems to reflect a minority student opinion, this is because it is the work of a minority group. It is true that THE DAVIDSONIAN is funded partly with student money, but this cannot be used as an argument that it should be the “voice of the student body.” Its purpose is to maintain an identity of its own. Only in this way can it continue to be an effective forum for expression. Frankly, the opinions of the student body have no place in THE DAVIDSONIAN if they conflict with those of the editors.

Over the past four years, the forum, style, and emphasis of THE DAVIDSONIAN have been changed and modified time and again. Always these changes have represented the changing attitudes of the editors alone and this should continue. I hope that in the future THE DAVIDSONIAN will always produce the finest quality paper that conditions permit. I also hope that it will consider every innovation and issue carefully. Yet in the end, I hope that the editors will rely on their own opinions and judgment.