Che BDavidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

Midnight Oil Blockade

While Davidson busied itself with transplanting the library this summer, a few items were lost in the shuffle. These need mentioning: First, what happened to all those little nooks and crannies that one could once seek out for late-night study? Last spring, college officials complained that students abused the all-night study rooms in Chambers and as a result, they are locked up tight this fall.

The purpose of this action was not to deny students a refuge for all-night study. To their credit, officials planned an all-night oasis that is found in a corner of the library basement. But is this provision enough? At the present time, this room is unfurnished and unusable. Rooms in Chambers remain locked. Until the library is operating at planned capacity (with a furnished study room and carrels for students) there is a pressing need for study space to be provided in Chambers. Furthermore, is one large room in the library going to be enough space for the multitudes of night owls that frequent the campus? Anyone who tried to find an empty room in Chambers last year knows their heavy use. If the college reconsiders its decision on the all-night study rooms in Chambers, there is a definite need for students to amend the abuses of last year. The pressing need for such facilities seems to make this a reasonable solution.

Another oversight of the move to the new library is the absence of office space for the “Miscellany” during the time before the new union is ready. The Quips and Cranks has found a temporary place in the old union. Yet, these accommodations are cramped at best. With the alleviation of these few problems, we may all rest peacefully, or, if rest is not our privilege, then we may at least have a place to burn away the post-midnight oil.

For Your Information

No single facility on the Davidson campus is likely to catch the kind of flack that students continuously heave in the direction of our rustic infirmary. Most would say, “Well-deserved criticism.” But let’s look at the broader picture. At least in Davidson the student can demand admittance and receive it. Try that in any large, well-staffed, superbly equipped, metropolitan hospital. Try walking into one of those without your Blue Cross card, your Social Security card, etc. You’d be in for a wait. Or try taking your severe chest pains to the Mooresville hospital, where, unless you’re white with a pocket full of money, you might as well stay in bed and groan.

Chuck Harmon

Compromise Excoriates Individual’s Integrity

“Your soul is often a battlefield upon which your reason and your judgment wage war against your passion and your appetite.” 
-Kahlil Gibran

Don’t misunderstand us. This is not to be taken as a gloss-over of the problems of the Davidson Infirmary, but only to serve as a reminder that when people are sick, they want action fast and that what may seem to be terrible imperfections in the system are not so terrible. The infirmary lacks space. Its equipment is dated. It is noisy, but to my knowledge, no one has died there yet. By January, 1975, Davidson will have its new library and a home for the College Union for the next decade. Perhaps then money can be allocated for the infirmary, but be that as it may, the infirmary still serves the best breakfast on campus.

Or can we concentrate for the time being only on ourselves? I’m not very good at locating “The Golden Mean.” There is something about the middle of the road stance, the word “compromising,” that offends whatever personal integrity I retain. Nothing seems more pointless to me than a commitment to “practicing moderation in all things.” Consequently, when the time comes to order my priorities I seem to encounter great difficulty. This always becomes an issue for me when each summer I contemplate the return to Davidson. At one point I found composing an absurd piece of verse entitled “Me vs. Everybody Else” in which the point was to contrast experiences of a purely personal nature with those events of world-wide importance and to weigh their importance relative to each other. After a particularly ridiculous couplet rhyming “mutual masturbation” with “Presidential resignation” I discarded the poem but continued to ponder the contrast. My question is whether or not it is possible for all of us within the limited environment of this sleepy little college town to be concerned with getting into graduate, medical, law school etc. and the rest of humanity at the same time.

Last week Ralph Nader asked that we arrange our priorities in concentric circles. It remains ourdecision as to what occupies the innermost circle. He suggested our outlook to contain a “broad perspective without neglecting the proximate details.” What the hell does that mean? Is our first concern to be the shortage of housing on campus, or the failure of every President in our lifetimes to meet his own announced goal of adequate housing for the country’s elderly? Can you afford to ignore the national and international economic news just as long as tuition stays within what you (or Daddy) consider to be “reasonable” limits?

It has been observed and reported almost “ad nauseum” that while the campus mood of the 60’s was one of social reform, in the 70’s a search for individual fulfillment dominates. The days of campus activism and all that the decade promised in terms of change are gone (well, not everything—we kept pot and the “new morality” just for the sake of continuity). Just when the rest of society recognized college students as responsible adults and gave us the vote nationwide, we failed to use it (except the way our parents vote, of course).

Perhaps college is, as some have insisted, simply a place to enjoy oneself while preparing to “make a living,” merely a time for suds, sex, and studies (in that order preferably) before shouldering any real responsibility. After all, “Watergate does not bother me.” It is at this point that I wish I were at Berkeley in ’68. But after all, this is a highly individual matter. Everyone still keeps their Voltaire (and others) suggested perhaps best life is a result of one’s own garden. Perhaps someone can make sense of all this.

Faculty Guest Column | Temple Revives Jefferson Heritage
Professor of History, Director of Library

The Great Trek from the long-useful Grey Chamber of Calter made the summer of 1974 an eventful one in the history of Davidson. Two hundred thousand volumes were moved, and enormous amounts of work were accomplished with almost clocklike precision. By the time the College opened in September, everything was in place, the stacks were cleaned of silt, and the floors were vacuumed. All this was accomplished while the building was still under construction.

It was our hope from the beginning that the E.H. Little Library would be uniquely Davidsonian. We felt that it should be planned expressly to meet the needs of Davidson College students, undergraduates in a liberal arts college based upon quality education and oriented toward individualized study. The library should be welcoming and inviting, both outside and in. As a learning center, it should have ample space for private study, a comfortable environment, and the capability to permit use of the most advanced audio-visual and electronic devices. The building, in its design and its location, should have the potential for future expansion. We feel that these objectives have been accomplished, chiefly through the abilities of the architectural firm of Clark, Nexsen and Owen of Lynchburg, Virginia, and the local expertise of Dr. Park and Mr. Grover.

The E.H. Little Library, planned for the future, has many links with the past. The literary societies, which had established the first libraries at Davidson as early as the 1830s, are memorialized with handsome insignia at either end of the loggia. The Peter Stuart Ney plaque, in handsome brass, ornaments the entrance lobby. Restrained elegance (which is definitely a part of the Davidson tradition since the administration of Dr. John R. Cunningham) can be found in the Smith Rare Book Room and in the Davidsoniana Room containing all publications by and about Davidson alumni. The paneling and shelving were especially designed for Davidson.

Our growing collection of rare items, including two incunabula and a first edition of the monumental “Encyclopedie; ou Dictionnaire Raisonne des Sciences, des Arts, et des Metiers” is largely the result of the generosity of alumni and other friends of the Davidson College Library. The alumni collection is, of course, unique, consisting of some 1,500 volumes authored by former students of the College and including all graduate publications, journalistic, literary, social, athletic, and religious.

Architecturally, the E.H. Little Library is the first building on the campus to feature both a glass front and a flat roof, indicating its definite 20th-century style. But the design does, at the same time, preserve the Jeffersonian architectural heritage of the campus. The red brick, the limestone trim, the neo-classic columns, familiar since the days of Eu and Phi halls, link the building with our aesthetic traditions. Nothing, however, in the interior has been sacrificed for exterior style. It is completely adaptable to the latest technological and electronic advances. When the time comes for the tie-up with the Library of Congress by the cathode ray tube, the E.H. Little Library is ready.