Senate Resolution

The Senate of the Student Government Association of Davidson College resolves that:

The publication of the Quips and Cranks must be returned immediately to the duly elected student editors; to reaffirm the mechanisms for student publications, both financially and editorially, and to ensure open lines of communication. Be it known that the SGA Senate takes no stand concerning the tastefulness or journalistic worth of any items presently at issue with the Office of the College President. The SGA Senate stands firmly upon the right of free expression for students, the right of students to determine their own processes for control of student publications, and the expertise and integrity of student-chosen editors and the Communications Board.

Ensuring student control of photographs in the pictures, but that they would print anything that was sent to them. Apparently, they only decided differently last week, after having had all the material in question in their possession.

Saying that "the language has been used in many very prestigious books, some of which have won journalistic awards from various judging agencies. The nudes used in most other books are female, and where streaking is concerned many editors use side shots and avoid controversy. However, we used the material in question."

Editor Expresses Indignation

GEORGE: "Surprisingly, they are quite activist about it. They’ve been very vehement in saying, 'We won’t take it censored—we want it the way it is.'"

He urged those students who oppose this action on the part of the school to contact individual trustees as a means of expressing their disapproval. "Students could play a major part in influencing the Trustees’ decision by their actions."

The situation mandates that the Board of Trustees immediately issue a comprehensive statement guaranteeing student freedom of expression in student publications. Upon receipt of this statement, representatives of student publications and the administration of the college should meet.

George said that he felt a case could possibly be made against the censorship, but "no student leader would want to go to that extreme. I feel sure that the Trustees will be very willing to talk about this, and appearing before them is our only concrete plan of action at this time."

The editor stressed the point that Quips and Cranks is supposedly a student-owned, controlled, and edited publication and that the administration’s only authority is to ensure that the publication is in line with the college’s standards.

By PAUL WELCH

Whereas the publication and distribution of the student-published yearbook Quips and Cranks has been halted by the Office of the College President due to a recent administrative decision to stop distribution of the 1974 annual unless it is censored.

In his view, the submission of sections of this year’s book to administrative officials for review constitutes "a betrayal of the college administration."

Incidentally, one of the headlines which the administration is objecting to is a direct quote from a DAVIDSONIAN editorial printed last fall.

According to George, students here appear to be unified in their appeal to the Board of Trustees in defense of their rights.of their "faith" by Delmar, almost universally against administration censorship of the freedom of expression. Inc., the publishing company, whereas the action clearly violates the right of free expression assured students at other institutions of higher learning and any citizen of this nation, and whereas students do not surrender their constitutional rights upon entering Davidson College, and whereas the action threatens the very core of free expression through student publications at Davidson;

"Throughout the process of handling Quips and Cranks yearbook, the immediate reaction appears to be behind us on this matter, and I really think the primary issue as the administration sees it is the money they might lose. As far as the editors know, there does not appear to be any agreement with the publishers as to how to handle this material, particularly the pictures of the streakers. They told me that in order to prevent libel suits, we should black out the faces. Davidson College would also be liable to any lawsuits that might stem from the distribution of objectionable material to people associated with the college."

In conclusion, he said that as far as he knew, neither he nor the administration's actions regarding the censorship of the 1973-74 Quips and Cranks have opened my eyes as to the origin of many of the college’s problems. Lately, there has been a lot of time, space, and thought devoted to the attitudes which now prevail on the Davidson campus. The actions of Spencer, Harbison, and Hemberger are many things: producing apathetic, warped individuals, forcing them to practice or possess any humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.

Highlighting the idiocy of Spencer et al., the administration acts ought to be removed. At the very least, their stand is remorseful. Forgive them, fellow students, for they know not what they do. Since Quips and Cranks is undoubtedly considered, but should not be our primary concern at all.

Bruce A. Reichelderfer Jr. '75
Davidson College