March 29, 1974

Iron Highway To Tucson...

By RICK ZIMMERMAN

Steve Fitzgerald, Ted White, and I had decided to train travel to Tucson for Spring break just the night before
we were to leave. Everyone agreed that hitchhiking with three people would be slow at best. We figured that it
would take at least three days to get from Davidson to Tucson if we hitchhiked and hoped that by traveling
twenty-four hours a day in a train we could cut one day out from time spent on the road.

None of us had ever seriously contemplated a cross-country trek by train. Abbie Hoffman does not even devote time to
the finer techniques of "riding the rails" in "Steal This Book"; nor was anyone on campus able to give us
any valuable information. What information we did get was negative. It's illegal. If the police catch you, you'll get thrown
into jail. The doors will snap shut and you'll starve to death. Clearly, this type of 'help' was not needed.

Despite our naivete, insufficient preparations, and paranoia, we set out on a Wednesday for the Charlotte train yard and our
ride to Tucson. Arriving in Charlotte about three in the afternoon, we walked one-quarter of a mile to a spot
where we could observe the trainyard activities without ourselves being seen. There was no action in the yard so we
went about our first task of finding a train. This process was not difficult. Using Steve’s Boy Scout compass to
find East, we suddenly found ourselves close to a train which hissed and belched as if it were going to
pull out shortly. As the three of us cruised up and down the train, it started moving and we decided
quickly to board it. We spaced ourselves along the track and jumped onto it as it gained momentum.

Our first objective was New Orleans. We traveled for two days in starts and fits but arrived in New Orleans
without major incident. We were dirty, hungry, and tired.

After four hours on a dirty boxcar we felt like some of the hobos and tramps we had seen along
the way. It is impossible to tell the true age of a hobo. Even those who were only in their
early thirties looked as if they had been made up to look like a person of 65 or 70: a
grim tale of the hardships which one suffers to travel for free on a train.

It is a strange thing but, carrying food on a train is worse than futile, it’s frustrating. Hunger besets the
traveler as soon as he steps onto the train and stays until he jumps off. All the food we took
lasted but a few hours. There is absolutely nothing to occupy your time while riding, except eating. Sleeping is impossible
because of the ocean liner motion of the boxcar and the infinite racket which an empty boxcar produces when traveling
at 60 miles an hour. Any activity, other than sitting on the edge of the car and staring at the
endless landscape, is also prohibited by the peculiar motion of the car.

Sometime during the second day of our trip through Louisiana, we were jolted out of a brief nap as the
train slowed and stopped. Steve climbed out of his sleeping bag and jumped out of the car to see what
was happening. "Quick!" he yelled, "Get your shit together. The engines are leaving us!" Our sleep-dulled minds quickly activated our
bodies to motion as we grabbed our packs and sleeping bags and leaped from the boxcar which had only gotten
us a few miles out of New Orleans. Sure enough, the engines had separated from the rest of the train
and were, by now, out of reach. Luckily, a narrow state route could be seen from the tracks and we
grimly set out to hitchhike to the next city.to the side of the road near us and stopped. A coarse-looking
local confronted me as I ran ahead of the others to inquire about a ride. He said that he had
seen the train stop from the road and was going to search the train for grain, soybeans, or oats with
which to feed his hogs. He said that he needed some help to lug the grain from the train and
that if we helped him, he would give us a ride to Baton Rouge—a distance of about 30 miles. Knowing
that the chances of catching a ride in Nowhere, Louisiana to Baton Rouge with a party of three were minimal,
we all assented and thence became accessories during the fact. For close to two hours we hauled soybeans fifty yards
from the train to his camper, dodging snakes and disappearing when an official-looking car would appear on the road. We
quickly disposed of the grain—at a profit, of course—and headed to Baton Rouge.

The 30-mile drive to Baton Rouge was an adventure in itself. The man, according to himself, had been a professional
race car driver in his youth and was displaying his talents in a high-speed drive to the trainyard. His autobiography
was seriously questioned after a maneuver in which he screeched, weaved, and bobbed his way through heavy midday traffic, narrowly
avoiding collision after collision and finally slowing from 80 miles per hour to near 0 in three seconds or less
in order to avoid what would be termed by the fourth estate as a "spectacular collision between a wildly swerving
camper-truck and a parked Caterpillar earthmover." Praising the Fate sisters, we were delivered to the yard in the capital city
in a state of absolute shock. The eight-hour wait for a train was joyously accepted as a "grace period." At
least two of us were overjoyed that the danger might have been lurking around at the time but had not,
as of yet, shown itself.

Gunpoint searches and international confrontations were to follow Ted and me all the way to Tucson and back. Steve, meanwhile,
arrived in Tucson one day before we did. In addition, while visiting Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, "The Land of Opportunity," he
found a $100 bill as it floated in a gutter. Steve shunned the thumb and styled to Tucson by Greyhound.

Meanwhile, back at the trainyard, Ted and I prepared for the trip to the other side of the Mississippi River.
Crossing the Mississippi River by train is a gas. Just a wee bit high from hunger and lack of sleep,
cruising 200 feet above the river with nothing separating the rail-thin trestle and the swirling, muddy waters of the mighty
river, we lost ourselves in our own fantasy aroused by the magnificent sight.

The ride from western Baton Rouge to Houston was uneventful. We left Baton Rouge at dusk. When we awoke at
the crack of dawn, as usual, we were certain that we had finally crossed Louisiana and, as evidence, Texas license
plates were in abundance. We crossed into Texas late that afternoon. Near midnight the train pulled into Houston. We were
dirty, hungry, and tired but in high spirits as the train stopped within a few yards of a 7-11.

The main rail line east of Houston is the MOP (Missouri and Pacific). It ends in Houston and is continued
by the SP (Southern and Pacific) on its westward journey. After talking to a yard worker, Ted told me that
we would have to walk 24 miles to the SP yard to catch a train to Tucson. We decided to
score some food before we took the walk. After downing three cans of Del Monte corn, two cans of Ranch-style
beans, a beer, and a quart of Dr. Pepper, we belched and set off for the SP yard. The two-mile
walk was more like one mile.
