She Bavidsonian - April 12, 1974

Thirteen Cats Cream Pfeiffer For 6th Straight

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

The Davidson College tennis team ran their winning streak to six games Wednesday with a 9-0 road victory over Pfeiffer. Head coach Jeff Frank was very pleased with the team’s performance, saying, “We have been able to start putting things together the past few games. If we can keep this up, we will be in good shape for the remainder of the season.”

Prior to the match with Pfeiffer, the Cats had run up consecutive wins over Harvard, William and Mary, Richmond, The Citadel, and Johnson C. Smith. All of those games were played on the Davidson campus. (Photo by Goodman)

TRY HARDER
Davidson's number two Tennis player, Rick Quinby, strains to backhand a return shot. The Cat netters have won six straight.

The Cats took the Indians by a score of 5-4 last Friday. “They would have to be considered at least the fourth best in the conference,” Frank commented. “We were in a position where we had to win. A loss would have just crushed us as far as the conference race was concerned.” Frank also indicated that the Indians had been playing good doubles, which is one of the strong points for the Davidson squad.

The Cats came through the singles section tied at three matches each. In the crucial doubles competition, the Cats captured the number one and two positions under pressure-packed conditions for the win. Bill Allen and Rick Quinby teamed up for the victory in the first rank, while Gary Bressler and Jim Dorsett took the second sector for the match-winning point.

“Overall the match might very well be the most important for us in the conference,” Frank explained in a happy tone. “It certainly will give us the momentum for those key matches with Appalachian and Furman next week.”

Next week will, indeed, be a clutch one for the Cats, as they face the Apps on Tuesday and the Paladins on the following day. Frank is definitely looking forward to the coming week, especially the clashes with the top teams in the conference.

“Against William and Mary, Allen took his man to three sets, while Rick just destroyed the guy at number two singles,” Frank said. “We could really pull some surprises next week.”

Frank noted that several factors could favor the Cats considerably against the Mountaineers and the Paladins. First, the matches will be played on clay courts, which are not the type that the Cats’ opponents are used to competing on. Secondly, though, the Cats could possibly be on an eight-game winning streak and have a 4-0 conference record along with a 12-7 overall mark.

“We could surely be in a good position to pull some upsets next week,” Frank admitted on a positive note. “If we are at a psychological peak where we should be, then some strange things could happen. I just hope we get a big turnout crowdwise for both of these matches.”

Changing the subject slightly, Frank announced that he has lured another top prospect to Davidson for the coming year. The new Cat netter is Brian Cooper, a top-ranked player from Wyomissing, Pa. Cooper had been offered an academic scholarship from Furman, among other schools, and turned it down to come to Davidson. Frank was delighted to hear the affirmative decision from Cooper and commented to the point that “it is hard not to be (See TENNIS, page 14)

The Fiendish ‘Champ’ Claws Unsuspecting Pinball Jocks

This is the season of sun (supposedly) and outdoor fun, when a stroller (or streaker) around Davidson can find soccer, tennis, softball, baseball, basketball, track, and nameless other sports in progress.

Club Football Addicts Face Bruising Spring Opponents

By LESTER ABBERGER
Staff Writer

To see the human and often humorous side of football one needs only to stroll down to the lower field and watch the Davidson club football team in action. Prowl up and down the sidelines, mingle with the players, listen to the strategy, the profanity, the comments from the players, harangue the referees, yell and laugh - then one can begin to understand what club football is about.

Club football is the story of 30 or 40 guys who like to play football. Club football enables them to participate in organized tackle football without the often demeaning pressures of theNecessity to win. The expenditure of time is minimal. Twice a week the players meet for about an hour for "practice," which is nothing more than a moving bull session. The games are played on Sunday afternoon. They play because they enjoy it and they have a damn good time.

For the fourth time in a year, Davidson's club team lost to Central Piedmont by the same 26-6 score. This game was played on April 1 after the rugby matches, and there were many fans on hand. Bob Bishop scored Davidson’s lone touchdown on a two-yard run. Piedmont was unable to move the ball, posting only two first downs compared to the 12 chalked up by the Davidson team. But as usual, Piedmont’s superior organization prevailed. Piedmont was able to take advantage of occasional lapses by the Davidson team; lapses caused by fatigue, confusion, and other diversions.

A rough and ready squad from the National Guard provided the opposition for the club team last Sunday. Brawn triumphed over brains as Uncle Sam's boys scratched out a 12-6 victory. Scrambling quarterback Jimmy Boyd was the offensive show as he scored on a six-yard run. The defense has played very well. Most of the scores against them have come on spectacular plays and no sustained drives. Boyd, quarterback, and Bishop, halfback, have provided the offensive punch. Any success they have experienced is due to the efforts of the offensive line play of Bob Ernest, Krishna, John Moon, Rollie White, and Bruce Reichelderfer.

Bob Wetzel, Eric Scharling, and White are the organizers of the club football team. They serve as coaches, equipment managers, fundraisers, trainers, entertainers, and players for the team. Wetzel stated that he has received a great deal of satisfaction from his association with club football, but he complains, "School policy should be amended to give greater support to club football. Our expenses are much higher than those of other club sports because our costs for equipment, referees, and the like are much higher. In order to survive, we will need money," Wetzel commented.

The club team will travel to Myrtle Beach Saturday to participate in the annual club tournament. However, in this sun season, not all activities of athletic merit take place in the sun. Down in the bowels of the College Union lurks one that will try the patience of the best athlete: one which reduces mere men to howling frustration and good players to masses of self-doubt. Beware, for "The Champ" has arrived.

"The Champ" is aptly named, for in its cacophonous clanging and swirling lights, it raucously dares humans to defeat it at its own game—Pinball. A fiendish contraption, "The Champ" is a machine which takes the absurd score of 175,000 points to beat. This writer has never come close, and neither have a score of other victims. Some claim to have beaten "The Champ." I'll believe that when I see it.

The setup is this: there are three lanes up top through which the ball may enter. One hit in this scores 3000 points. In the center are the usual bumpers, plus a gate which, when spun by an entering ball, is worth 100 points per revolution. Flanking this gate are bonus tunnels, each with a metal ball which must be knocked back through the tunnel to get advance bonus points (15,000 maximum). Knocking the ball all the way through the tunnel scores a "special" (free game). The flippers are flanked by wire guide tunnels which lead the ball either to the flipper (score 1000 advance bonus along the way) or out (as usually happens).

"The Champ" is an exercise in futility. The flippers seem too short, the "special" is next to impossible to hit, and the ball is like a sink—it drains quickly and often. Before you wizards out there attempt this machine, remember the Surgeon General's warning: "Pinball may be hazardous to your health."

Baseball Quiz
1) What Brooklyn Dodger was nicknamed "The Springfield Rifle"?
2) Who hit .393 in 1921, yet finished fourth in the American League in batting?
3) What outfield has the highest one-year combined average in baseball history (hint: 1935 Tigers)?
4) What was Connie Mack’s real name?
5) Who played centerfield for the 1957 Milwaukee Braves?

Last Month’s Answers
1. Jim
2. Andy Seminick-F; Richie Ashburn-CF
3. Willie Crawford-Detroit Tigers-.312
4. Cleveland Indians