Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Joy of eating in full bloom, so in the interest of having something to fill this column, I decided to concern myself with all of you hungry sun mongers looking for places to eat. Those who think that Myrtle Beach and Ocean Drive are the greatest things ever to happen to the Atlantic Ocean probably have unrefined tastes with regards to seafood too. So let's erase South Carolina from our map (lots of other people would like to do that also) and begin with the southernmost tip of North Carolina.

Calabash lends itself to the East Coast in much the same capacity that Fisherman's Wharf holds in California. All of the glossier magazines have featured the town, and to have actually been there is always worth a few ahhh’s in strange company. In case you don’t know, Calabash is a small coastal town with no commerce other than a pink and magenta ice cream parlor and a dozen-odd seafood restaurants all claiming to be the original place. Until a few years ago, the town was known only to the local farmers and Knapp shoe salesmen. I can remember fighting the flies that are inevitably attracted by fresh fish and reading greasy shirt cardboard signs such as “restrooms out back” and “no whiskey drinking.”

Time marches us ever onward, so that now on any given summer night the traffic noise smothers the cricket concerto, and one is haunted with memories of Cherokee. The Cherokee-by-the-Sea image shines clearly in the variety of Calabash bumper stickers being sported and through the way in which folks take pictures in front of the now-disfunctional shrimp docks. So much for atmosphere; now for the food, which is admittedly delicious. The Calabash cooks have been in the business of preparing nothing but seafood for years, and one meal is elegant testimony to their skill. However, one meal only may give the diner the illusion that its goodness is a result of its freshness. Allow me to pop that balloon. Seafood is a very seasonal commodity, and even in its best...

---

Letter to the Editor

To the Editor:

I would like to take exception to the headline “Coeducation Results in Tuition Hike” in the April 12 DAVIDSONIAN and all implications to that effect that might have been in Mr. Cornell’s speech. In careful reading of the article and analysis of the needs of the college, none of the expenses cited, with the possible exception of gymnasium facilities, are the direct result of coeducation. Instead, these needs are due to a 50 percent increase in the student body, regardless of whether this increase is unisex or coeducational. Coeducation with a constant student body would not necessitate additional housing facilities. Expenses and fundraising restrictions associated with the new library and concurrent dislocation of the Student Union were committed before coeducation was approved. These have been desperately needed regardless of the size and make-up of the student body. The art department has been growing and would increase solely from the increase in the number of students. Similarly, the student-faculty ratio is impartial to the sex of either. If Mr. Cornell told Claremont Men's College that coeducation is forcing Davidson to raise its tuition, I hope his listeners were awake enough to recognize the misrepresentation. Increases in Davidson's tuition are the result of an inopportune increase in the student body, not coeducation!

Bill Barnes '75
Davidson College

---

Easter Bunny Bungles English Examinations

Last weekend I was home for the traditional academic holiday of Easter. As part of my family’s tradition, we all hide each other's Easter baskets somewhere in the house. This year when I finally found mine, after searching for it for 2½ hours, I found a...

---

The Mad Dash To Another Connette Fish Story

...months old.Since they can only be harvested during the winter "r" months, most East Coast crabs live in polluted waters, rendering them seafood for instance. Jones's Seafood House in Long Beach offers a seafood platter for $3.50 that they defy anyone to finish off (free refills, in other words). Their broiled platters are very dry though, better to stick with fried.

On up the coast is the call-it-quaint-if-you-like town of Southport. Right in the middle of town, down where Main Street runs into the bay, is Mack’s, trading for beer. At least with that system, it’s always fresh, but that raises another point. Truly fresh fish.

New Chemistry facilities.

Calabash, Carolina coast, offers a strange-looking egg sitting in the middle of all that green, which tastes somewhat slimy. This grill serves their fish slimy too. They also serve beer. Never has one place so closely represented either heaven or hell for so many people.

Only one noteworthy delight is to be found at Wrightsville Beach, that being the hushpuppies (25¢ a dozen) at Faircloth’s by the drawbridge. One of those hushpuppies should be kept in a glass case in the U.S. Bureau of Standards and Measures.

Tourists at Wrightsville are customarily pointed to the Neptune for seafood. That’s because the locals don’t particularly like tourists. Food at the Neptune is no warmer than their service, and I find it to be frequented by pasty-faced people who left their rhinestone-destudded.

Because of its size, Tony’s is one of the most impressive restaurants on the coast, offering customary platters and plates. Tony’s food is enhanced by a large dealership in fresh fish and shrimp. Anyone in Morehead City should try it; the surprise will be theirs. During peak hours, the waitresses are said to use walkie-talkies to communicate with the kitchen, and radio apprentices roam the floor with the sole mission of filling iced tea glasses. The marvel of this circus is that the food is excellent.

Tom Hatley just interrupted to tell me that I have said enough, and I was wondering where to end the story anyway, so I'll quit here.

Picking it up, I discovered it to be dyed red and black. Catchy, eh? After running my hands all over it for about an hour, a strange-looking bunny appeared. He had the gall to tell me that he would grant me three wishes for Easter. So I took him up on it. What did I have to lose; church wasn't for an hour or so.

My first wish went something like this: I wish for the English Comprehensives to be eradicated. My second wish was: I wish for a passing grade on my English Comprehensives. And my final wish was this: I wish not to sleep through the English Comprehensives, which will be given Saturday, April 20 at 9 a.m. But before the bunny could get the stuff together and grant me my Easter special, my sister came along and scared him away. I cried all the way to church, and during part of the sermon.

I guess the reason English Comprehensives are still administered is because Davidson likes to keep its own house. But it seems that going co-ed was like doing the old tablecloth trick with your best china, and having it flop, and going to a self-selective social system was like letting the cat out and ending up getting locked out yourself. If Davidson can afford to break china and put up with cats, why can't it make one more sacrifice?

I hoped that I wouldn't have to sit next to my senile aunt during Easter lunch — and I didn’t have to. "Reader’s Digest" renewed my subscription on time (I usually have to write them a nasty letter and tell them to get on it). And finally, my sister is finally getting married to the guy I hoped she would marry. He owns an Audi dealership!

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters on any subject from our readers. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words. All letters must be signed.