Wrathful Crusaders Seath

(Ed. note: Our correspondents were once again locked out of the IMAC office. THE DAVIDSONIAN regrets that due to the
lockout we are not able to report IMAC scores this week.)

This week is going to be a bit different as C.A. & Y.B. are going to (in the words of
Abbo) delve into the abstract perversions and versions of the infinite realm of unreality. If you heard this in a
Humes lecture, you would for sure call for immediate rack time.

As C.A. and I awoke this afternoon (we both went to class but nothing made any imprint on our semi-conscious
minds), we made our daily inspection of the Duke toilets giving them a 5 on a scale of 1-10, and
looked around for breakfast of chocolate chip cookies and Hi-C, (grape I think).

We decided to make our total rag list about IMAC. This took a great deal of time to realistically place
the rags, so some of your favorites have been probably left out to which we say with sympathy, “No Banana,
Bwana.”

Wandering Jew and the son of a preacher man hunting us down demanding absurd fines.

1) Writing this crappy column every week with our combined sports staff of the

2) SPE’s (need we say more). Yes! What a drag to play the SPE’s in anything. They got to be
the worst. Don’t get us wrong though, some of our best friends are SPE’s. SPE’s have a great sense of
humor, they dance real good (natural rhythm). They make the best of athletes. Some of our best friends are SPE’s.
This is for you Keith, a special request. We didn't know we had been neglecting our favorite frat boys.

3) Short right fields, crappy umpires, carrying in volleyball are three we had to lump together. Who likes to see
some ATO library rat who can’t normally hit the ball 90 feet stroke a towering single to the woods. Crappy
umpires are everywhere. They can turn a baseball game into whistle practice or an ego trip until an IMAC center
6’2”, 190, crams the roundball in a strategic location. To show you how volleyball carrying gets to us, the sport
would be a lot better if they added crappy umps. 'Nuff said here.

4) People that draw walks, yes this is you Frank Sommerville, dedicated to a brother. These are some of the
lowest forms of life. Why in the hell do you think they gave you a bat?

5) Being a skin team during 40-degree weather. Nobody likes to scratch grass off your back when you get tackled
by an over-enthusiastic Delt. See what you did Dave Fagg?

6) Teams with great names that don’t show up. We suspect they join the league just to show off their
monicker.

7) Higgens and Straub or Pappas and Wasted as refs. (Wasted is the head official though).

8) Mercenary teams. Independent teams that appear out of the blue with every athletic supporter on campus on their roster,
such as the Fairies, Q-12, and the Cleveland Indians.

9) IMAC B-ball getting cancelled because of Varsity b-ball, jv-ball, girls’ b-ball and the faculty b-ball. If any of these
teams were any good, or were nice about the courts instead of arrogant it might be cool however.

10) The fact that the girls (we think they’re called coeds) bitched about not being included in IMAC and then
seeing approximately 10 or so D.C. women getting in any sport. Most of them are token girlfriends anyway.

Those of you wishing to hurt us should talk to Bender or Slagle because they wrote this article. C.A. and
Young Buck are vacationing in Lima, Peru, sucking on coffee beans and whatever else we can find. Exit, stage left.

(Photo by Goodman)

THERE IT GOES
On Wednesday the Delts took on the Gozinyas in softball action. Delt Bruce Simpson hammers a drive to left in
the hard-played game.

put this in your purse —

The earth-shattering noise from this purse-fitting horn gives you the protection you've been looking for against muggers and rapists. Just
snap two Penlight batteries into this amazing new Vigilant Alarm and you're ready. No wires required. Complete package includes mounting
instructions showing how the Alarm can also be used on windows or doors. GET VIGILANT BEFORE THEY GET YOU.

SUPPLY LIMITED ....

Send me
I enclose $3.00 for each Vigilant Alarm
I understand that if I am not totally satisfied, I will receive a complete refund if returned within 10 days

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY!
Family Jewels Ltd.
3431 West Villard Avenue
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53209

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY

CAPTAIN AMERICA

ZIP

Sophomore Undergraduate Area Exams

The Sophomore Undergraduate Area Exams will be administered Thursday evening, April 25, in Chambers Banquet Hall. Vice President for Academic
Affairs John M. Bevan indicated that students are not graded. The scores do not go out to advisors nor are
they added to the students’ permanent record. Bevan strongly suggests that every sophomore take these tests.

Center in Bethesda, Maryland, recognized worldwide for its work in Medical Research. And if you've read this far, you may
be interested in the details. Just send in the coupon and we'll supply them.

Box A
Navy D Air
Veterinary
Armed Forces Scholarships
Universal City, Texas 78148
I desire information for the
Name
Soc. Sec. #
