Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian, December 13, 1974

Ruggers - Alumni Unite!

By BEN WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Despite dizziness, uncomfortable conditions,

The team was upset in that they narrowly lost having a great tourney record.

The tournament was sponsored by the Washington D.C. Rugby Football Club on Saturday, November 30. As many as 35 teams
met at the Kenilworth Fields in Washington on a bitter cold day to play rugby.

Davidson was supposed to play two teams (seven players on each team), only a handful of players could make the
tournament. Unlike Davidson, they almost scored with a combined effort by...

(See RUGGERS, page 16)

A Davidson rugger grimaces as he receives a hit from the blind side, but he retained possession of the ball.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST CO

Master Charge

THE INTERBANK CARD

DEE BOOTH

Who offers a Master Charge Card to Davidson students?!
Piedmont Bank and Trust Company.

By CLIFF GARDINER

Is there a minimum age requirement?
Yes, you must be 18 years of age to have the card in your name alone.

Is there any minimum income requirement?
No. No one is excluded from any Piedmont Bank service due to a pre-determined minimum annual income.

Why would I want a Master Charge Card?
Good for identification; it will make cashing a check much easier. Dining out, travel, or emergencies make having a Master
Charge Card worthwhile. Safer than carrying cash, reduces the need for and cost of travelers checks.

When does my Master Charge Card expire?
All student Master Cards expire in June 1975. Cards will automatically be renewed unless specific instructions to the contrary are
given in advance. You will have your card for summer & travel and we encourage seniors to continue to carry
a Piedmont Master Charge Card wherever they go.

Why did Piedmont Bank design a Student Master Charge Program?
A 1970 survey of Davidson College seniors indicated that students wanted a Master Charge Card. Piedmont Bank’s long and satisfactory
experience with Davidson students assured us that our faith in the students was justified, and finally, it is the only
service of our bank that was not being offered to students. We ask for your deposits and we should be
willing to provide you the tool for credit!

Piedmont Bank in no way encourages the student to use the Card for spending beyond his or her budget. We
hope it will be a convenience to you and will cause you to use Piedmont Bank for checking and savings
both now and in the future. It is also our hope that Piedmont Master Charge will go with you as
you leave Davidson College.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
