——, _ POLLEY IN EGYPT

Thanks to Richard Nixon, Max Polley was well received in Egypt.

The Davidsonian October 18, 1974

Polley Tours, Studies Egypt: Nixon Sets Mood For Visit

By BRUCE CORSER
Senior News Editor

Capitalizing on Nixon’s sojourn to the Mid-East, Professor of Religion Max Polley spent two months this summer touring, studying, and
gathering impressions of Egypt. As a part of the Indiana Consortium for Intellectual Progress, Polley was centered at the American
University in Cairo. The avowed purpose of this consortium was to study Egyptian culture and then construct curricula for a
variety of different age levels in the Indiana public schools. Polley concentrated on the religious life of the Egyptians.

“Nixon got there two days before we arrived, so we were very well received,” Polley commented. He indicated that this
treatment was in sharp contrast to the reception with

Deprivation, Kushigian Meet

By JOHN STANFIELD
Staff Writer

The new assistant director of the College Union, Russ Kushigian, leaned forward and smiled like he had the perfect response.
“I think I know what students want out of the union,” he quipped, “because I have a degree in Education
and I’ve worked with disadvantaged children.” Kushigian knew that his analogy to deprivation was well founded. “People in their junior
year have never seen the Union as anything but a temporary one in an old eng,” he said. “It’s too
d.”

He leaned on his desk and stroked his beard in one of his more serious moments. “We can’t be a
real center of Union activities operating out of a booth.” The union has been temporarily located—for nearly Story aici: an
old three-story building previously used to house college guests. Kushigian looks forward to January when the Union will be able
to move into what was the old library. Since his arrival at Davidson, Kushigian has taken over responsibilities for the
Artist Series, but he foresees few major changes in the Union’s operating procedures. “We are not operating at full steam
now,” he admitted.

College Gets Grant For Science Research

By NANCY NORTHCOTT
Staff Writer

Davidson College has received a $12,400 grant from the National Science Foundation to be used in purchasing scientific research equipment.
Part of this equipment will be used to furnish the third floor of the Dana Science Building for use by
the Biology department. Chairman of the Biology department Donald S. Kimmel indicated that the increased space was needed to provide
for increased enrollment, a growing staff, and increased research activity. The third floor presently houses one classroom-lab and the lab
for one of the staff members. Most of it serves as storage space. When planned remodeling has been completed, the
third floor will contain at least two student labs, a student research operation, and a seminar study room. Planned facilities
also include areas for work with radioactive materials, space for the sorting of field collections, and the biology museum collection.
The facilities will be for use by students and faculty members.

“There is a slight problem with the eaves coming down, but in terms of the floor space and actual working
space, the third floor has just as much room as the other two floors of the building,” Kimmel said. “The
extra space will allow the Biology department to expand while staying under the same roof.” The college has an applicationfor
funds pending with the Dana Foundation, which funded the initial construction of the building. Results are expected to be heard
this month.

“We have the organizational problems that all volunteer groups have.” He believes that the Union, in addition to alleviating these
problems, should strive for increased professionalism in all of its activities.

Kushigian comes to Davidson from Indiana University in Pennsylvania, where he worked as program director for four years.

Saturday, Oct. 19.

which Americans had met before Nixon’s visit. The President of Ohio State was arrested for taking pictures in front of
his hotel a week before we arrived. But once Sadat shook Nixon’s hand, almost everything opened up,” he said. Nevertheless,
the Consortium was still limited to main roads.

Polley observed that the people in Cairo were very polite to foreigners. Doors were sometimes held open, and the Egyptians
would often surround the American group hoping to have their picture taken. Furthermore, there was no jostling as in the
streets of a big American city.

“The city itself is overcrowded,” Polley said. “In 1966, its population was 3 million, and now it’s 7 million. People
were living anywhere they could find a place, even on rooftops.” This massive growth is primarily due to the refugee
influx from the Sinai Peninsula as a result of the Mid-East conflicts. Polley noted that Cairo is presently in tight
economic straits. “Many of the upper-class citizens are seeking ways to leave the country so that they might make some
money. Generally, they are frustrated,” he said.

Polley saw many aspects of Egyptian life during his stay. “Tahrir” - the Egyptian word for freedom - is a
land reclamation project in the delta area. He talked to some officials involved in this “exciting” project in which farmland
is obtained from the sea and the desert. Engineers working on the reclamation were trained in Holland, which specializes in
this area. The project takes about five years to develop arable farmland. First, a special rice is planted which can
grow in salt water. This rice eventually desalinates the land so that long-fiber cotton can finally be grown.

“Cotton and grapes are the two big crops in Egypt,” Polley said. “They don’t put the grapes on wires but
rather let them ripen on the ground. Wood is scarce in Egypt, and this method saves them from using it.”

(See POLLEY, page 8)

$1.00

Love

TAKE UP TENNIS!

Top quality tennis equipment and clothing for well below retail prices!

*RACKETS BY
- DUNLOP
- WILSON
- GARCIA
- DAVIS

*SHOES IN
- CANVAS
- LEATHER
- SUEDE

**MEN’S AND WOMEN’S CLOTHING
*BALLS 2°/CAN
*SWELL GIFTS
- RACKET COVERS
- CARRY-BAGS
- SOX (M&W)
- WRISTBANDS
- HEADBANDS
- HATS
- VISORS
- STUFF LIKE THAT

*RACKET RESTRINGING, REGRIPPING, REPAIRS
*TENNIS LESSONS AVAILABLE

Help put this boy through school somewhere

Contact: Rick Roylance, D124 892-7160.
