January 25, 1974

The Davidsonian: Cats Nip Virginia For Fifth Straight

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

Davidson used a tenacious defense and got a little help from a confused Virginia squad to hold the Cavaliers from
taking a shot in the last 18 seconds of the game Wednesday to preserve a cautious 64-63 victory.

The Cats had a three-point lead with less than a minute to play. Two free throws on a one-and-one situation
by Wally Walker cut the margin to one with 54 seconds left. As Jay Powell brought the ball up court,
Bill Langloh made a clutch steal and the Cavs called for a timeout with 43 seconds to play. That set
the stage for the breathtaking finish and the Cats' fifth straight win, moving them to an 11-5 record. Virginia dropped
their seventh loss in their last eight games for a 5-8 mark.

On Monday night, Davidson managed to shoot only 41 percent from the field, but pulled out a 73-65 win over
the Indians of William and Mary. Mike Sorrentino canned four of five shots from the floor and was perfect in
eight trips to the free throw line to pace the Cats in the Southern Conference win with 16 points. Powell
tossed in 11 and Greg Dunn hit 10 for the Cats. Ron Satterthwaite had 17 to lead the Indians.

FREE FLYING LESSONS PLUS $9,800 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR

And that’s only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that
will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial flying career... or impressive executive credentials to
go with the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You'll earn from $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits
include 30 days paid vacation annually, free worldwide air travel, medical care, and much more. If you're between 20½ and
26½, a senior or graduate student, you may qualify.

United States Air Force
TSgt. Roger Church
332-3046

The Virginia game was close the entire way with the score being tied a multitude of times. The Cats held
a slim lead at the half, 34-32, on a last-second shot by Dunn. Virginia had led by as much as
six during the first half. But the Cats came on strong near the end to take the brief two-point lead.

At one point in the second half, the Cats gained a seven-point advantage at 54-47. This came following successive baskets
by Eppa Rixey, T. Jay Pecorak, and Paul Wagner. But the Cavs came right back and scored nine straight points
to take a 56-54 lead. From that point on it was nip and tuck. Davidson won the game at the
foul line, even though they made only four of five the entire night. Pecorak dropped two in with 1:47 to
go and Sorrentino added another following a Cavalier basket to make the decisive point.

Sorrentino paced the Cats as he hit on six of ten shots from the floor and scored 13 points. Larry
Horowitz also bagged 13, and he connected...on six of eight field goals. Dunn hauled in 13 rebounds, many of them
in crucial situations to lead the Cats in that department. Last Saturday night at the Charlotte Coliseum, the Cats trailed
West Virginia by three at the half but rallied for a key 77-74 victory. Dunn paced this win for Davidson
as he banged in 10 of 20 field goals and five of seven charity tosses to total 25 points. He
also led the Cats in rebounding with eight. Sorrentino had his major number again, 13, and Pecorak added 12. (Staff
photo by Goodman)

UP IN THE AIR! Jay Powell legs the ball up after a steal and breakaway against the William and Mary
Indians. The Wildcats won the game 73-65, which was their fifth straight win. The Cats were unimpressive in both wins
over the Mountaineers and the Indians. It was more or less a let-down period after the win over South Carolina
last week. Davidson has now won five games in a row and nine of their last ten, following a loss
to Furman just before Christmas break. However, things are going to get rough starting Saturday.

DICTIONARIES WEBSTER
Library size 1973 edition, brand new, still in box. Cost New $45.00 Will Sell for $15. Deduct 10% on orders
of 6 or more. Make Checks Payable to DICTIONARY LIQUIDATION AND MAIL TO:
Webster Dictionaries
P.O. Box 218
Davidson, N.C. 28036
C.O.D. orders enclose $1.00 goodwill deposit. Pay balance plus C.O.D. shipping on delivery. Be Satisfied on inspection or return within
10 days for full refund. No dealers, each volume specifically stamped not for resale. Please add 25 cents for handling.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
(Davidson, N.C.)
550 N. Main

PEPPY’S PIZZA BARN
SPAGHETTI
This Monday
All You Can Eat $1.00 (must have Davidson I.D.)
$1.00 Off Family Sized Pizza
PEPPY’S
Ph. 663-2792
Clip This Coupon
Mooresville

night in Winston-Salem where the Cats tangle with a much improved Wake Forest squad. Led by sharp-shooting guard Tony Byers,
the Demon Deacons will be out for blood when the Cats invade their home territory. Next week proves to be
even more challenging, as the Cats travel to Duke on Wednesday for a big game with the Blue Devils. The
Dukes have a big and tough front line which will put the Cats to a big test before next Saturday’s
big game with Notre Dame. The Irish, ranked number one in the country at the present time, will entertain the
Cats following the rematch with UCLA. The Cats have their work cut out for them if they intend to keep
their current string alive. There are also two other big games on the schedule, as far as national rankings are
concerned. These include a road trip to N.C. State on Feb. 13 and a Charlotte contest with Cincinnati to close
out the season, except for the SC Tournament, on Feb. 23.

shh! we work. quietly
The Quiet Company
Robert T. Stone, CL and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036
College Agents
Brad Tipler
Dick Richardson
