LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Nixon Critics Respond To Operation Candor

(Ed. NOTE: The performance of Richard M. Nixon in fulfilling the duties of the office of the Presidency and a
DAVIDSONIAN editorial in the Nov. 30 issue have prompted much response from our readers. We believe the following merit your
attention.)

To the Editor:

Although I agree that impeachment procedures should be initiated against President Nixon, I think the tone and style of your
front page editorial worked against your goals. Many journals and papers have called for Mr. Nixon’s impeachment or resignation, so
your article is not a new thought. The other editorials I have seen were less strident, more reasonable, and probably
more effective for their comparative calmness.

I wonder if it was worth from Morrison's songs. Morrison in many ways personified the excess I am referring to.
When he tried to stir up his concert crowds in Miami a few years ago by exposing himself to his
stunned fans (for which he was arrested).

To the Editor:

Davidson College has had a long and honorable existence, and presumably this exemplary reputation will continue through succeeding years. However,
having observed the format of the November 30, 1973, edition of “THE DAVIDSONIAN,” I am convinced that some of the
current students need a candle to light their way as they struggle to become worthy alumni of that great institution.

Since some of you approve impeachment of the President, we wonder on what grounds you base your opinions. Do you
have some inside information that the rest of us—the general public—are ignorant of? We read newspaper items which distort the
facts and are written as though hearsay, propaganda, and malicious rumors were actual facts. We listen to polls which are
calculated to present biased, partisan opinions. We get TV coverage which is verbalized in a subjective manner—reflecting the personal opinion
of the commentator—a far cry from a genuine assessment of the views of the public at large.

Mr. Nixon has, of course, his own particular problem of excesses. His press conferences, his half explanations have turned him
into an ironic caricature of himself—a very sad state for an American public official. He has begun to remind me
of Monty Hall, and I am wondering what's left in the last surprise box on stage. According to Mr. Harris’
latest figures, more and more people are becoming fed up.

1. It lost its “oomph” in attempting to draw some sort of tenuous connection between pointless revolution and disorder and
the idle rhetoric spouted by most of its advocates (exemplified by the Jim Morrison quotation at the beginning—and I do
mean idle rhetoric. What, indeed, did Jim Morrison do that had any positive, lasting effects on American politics or government—or
anything else, for that matter?) and bringing about change in a lawful, reasonable manner. Implicit in this approach is what
I discern to be a condescending attitude: “Well, we know these turkeys won't do anything dramatic, but maybe we can
make ‘em strive a little.” To be one, few would be willing to be “clubbed and beaten” when there are
other courses of action open. Well, Mr. Hoon, that is your opinion.

2. It lacked specifics concerning the rally itself, e.g., who were the featured speakers, where was the rally to be
held, and what exactly was the purpose? “Anti-Nixon rally” leaves much to the imagination. One can vehemently denounce the President
without going to Raleigh to do it. Even if I agreed that Nixon should be impeached (which, in fact, I
do, though for a number of reasons, some different from yours), I would not appreciate being handed a verbiage for
my convenience. It’s soft-sell tactics like this that helped get us in the mess we're in now. Presenting it in
a more tasteful, forthright manner would recognize it as being an editorial, but a little more energy devoted to firming
up the boundary between fact and opinion in THE DAVIDSONIAN (at this point it is practically nonexistent) would do much,
in my mind, to improve the quality of the biased public opinion.

In general, do you accept withoutQuestion whatever you see in print or hear spoken on TV as gospel truth? If
so, truly you need a floodlight instead of a candle! That the President has already been tried in a “Kangaroo
Court” of biased, public opinion, we cannot deny. But when college students who are deemed to be the intelligentsia of
society—our hope for tomorrow—debase themselves by aiding and abetting the mob action of a few bloodthirsty politicians determined to drag
the President in the dust without regard that by so doing they are playing into the hands of the Communistic
element, it is time to halt this infamous orgy and appraise the consequences of our actions. Conduct as I have
described is degrading to our democracy. Need I mention, also, the infamy of playing one of the President’s confidential tapes
at a party of inebriates? No, you were not guilty of this deplorable action, but you are in agreement with
those who did. The bright side of this picture is the knowledge that large segments of our society are not
in accord with these anarchistic procedures. Let us now examine the substantive worth of this man whom you would destroy.
Before you were born, Richard Nixon was serving his country faithfully and well. Elected to the House in 1946, he
was involved shortly thereafter in an incident that young people of today should be cognizant of. One of our former,
revered Presidents had an advisor in whom he placed implicit trust. This man sat at the ailing President’s side and
helped dictate the terms of peace at Yalta, terms which destroyed the balance of power in Europe, enabled Communistic aggression
to spread wherever it would, and created problems which our nation is still trying to solve. The President’s counselor was
eventually unmasked for what he was, an arch-Communist engaged in espionage activities against our country. The individual who brought this
criminal to justice was none other than Richard Nixon. (“One Man Alone: Richard Nixon,” by Ralph De Toledano (1969).) You
are better acquainted with the President’s more recent activities: the historic trip to Peking, and the events of the night
of October 25, 1973, at which time, while you and I slept comfortably in our beds, he averted a confrontation
with the Soviet Union and thus saved us all from a possible future rain of fire from the skies. Are
we grateful? Apparently not. Last year, while the Watergate scandal was before the public and keeping it there, that to
this day there has been no celebration or public demonstration that would raise the President in the public’s esteem for
having liberated the prisoners, or of having ended the war. But if nobody else gives the President credit for bringing
the prisoners home before withdrawing the troops from Vietnam, we can be sure the prisoners themselves and their families will
be forever grateful, not to mention the material you present at the very least. To be “idealistic and committed” for
no reason is absurd—as is your reference to the late Vietnam War resistance movement. In case you haven't noticed, that
particular movement lost its impetus when the Vietnam War (as far as we are concerned) ceased to exist. Further, the
absence of this air of condescension and clarification of jumbled opinion and fact will serve to present your editorial opinions
(and the opinions of others) in a better manner suited to rational consideration. W.C. Dough '77 Davidson College Court speedily
as possible from that hideous war. As for you young men of today who are secure from being drafted, are
you not grateful? Would you spurn the hand that has protected you? A very wise man once said, “Ingratitude is
the basest sin.” Let us, therefore, give credit where credit is due. If I were in your place, I would
write the President a belated letter of thanks. This is the very least that you can do. In conclusion, we
expect Watergate to have salutary after-effects. Hereafter, greater scrutiny will be made of all political candidates, their backgrounds, records, and
achievements, as well as their ability to function with honor and distinction in the offices they seek. No, we must
not impeach the President—a man who has proved his worth many times over. Instead, we should honor him as a
staunch patriot who has labored zealously for almost three decades for the preservation of this country and its people.

Cecil B. Rice '66
George Washington University
