Right ___ September 20, 1974

She Bastbesuisn, Harper Maintains Constancy Amidst Football Variables

By CHARLES KENNON
Asst. Managing Editor

Much has been said about the current “new era” in Davidson athletics, and football is the most dramatic example of the break with the past. Head Coach Ed Farrell and his staff are all new, the schedule has been mercifully downgraded, and the Wildcats no longer must play the role of under-supported Davids every Saturday.

Few people could be more attuned to this change and what it signifies than Senior David Harper, the Wildcat quarterback. “We are trying to make a clean break with the past,” Harper said. “Football had been a source of controversy because of the scholarship issue, and now that that isn’t an issue we hope for much better support from the faculty and administration as well as the students,” he explained.

Prior to the current season, Davidson had given standard football scholarships. Now players may only be awarded grants based on need in the same manner that other students may receive them. Harper feels that the new grant policy is just one drawing card that the Wildcats hold. “The new coaching staff has fit in perfectly here, and football is no longer isolated from the rest of the community. They have helped us realize that we now have a great winning potential,” he observed.

Alterations in the recruiting policy of all NCAA schools will benefit Davidson’s efforts in that area, Harper believes. The new guidelines allow for only thirty scholarships to be given for football. He expects that the big schools will now have to be much more selective in their recruiting. This would allow Davidson to choose from a larger field of good athletes. “We can pick up boys who normally would be considered by Notre Dame or Nebraska,” according to Harper. He added that “here they will get to play whereas somewhere else they would just sit on the bench. And Davidson stresses academics so that they'll study too.”

Harper feels that this side of the athletic program at Davidson is highly commendable and a plus in recruiting efforts. Optimism about the new season is centered on more than a new coaching staff and the discontinuation of scholarships. At the end of last season, Harper was third in the nation in passes completed per game, for a total of 1885 yards. The two players above him have graduated, leaving Harper the country’s “best” returning passer. He warned against expectations of so fine a performance this year. “In the second half of last season we decided to throw more and our offense clicked. We played much better football.”

“Our line has developed a lot this year,” he continued. “Last year it was a weak spot but now we plan on them several yards downfield. This will make it easier to get at least the short yardage every time, and it gives better protection for the pass. Last year our running game didn’t work until the last game with the Citadel - and we won. There should be a lot more of that this year.”

Harper views last year as something of a basis for learning. He said both his ability and attitude improved. “Early last year we didn’t score many points and our team was supposed to be based on offense. I had doubts about my ability as a player,” he said. “But...You have to forget about the last game and prepare for the next. It taught me not to get wrapped up in worrying.” Harper indicated that last year’s style of razzle-dazzle offense will be absent this season. “This team is undergoing a fresh start. Really, we are going back to fundamentals. Coach Farrell is meticulous. He strives for details. He is aiming for a top-notch program. How soon we have one is up to us,” Harper feels.

According to Harper, no hard feelings have come from the departure of Dave Fagg and the abrupt shifting of football styles at Davidson. “I want to make this clear - we love Coach Fagg and are happy to hear that he is doing well at Georgia Tech. He had a dynamic personality. The new situation is working out well. No one should judge the team from the old system,” he emphasized.

Dave Harper almost didn’t make it to Davidson because he didn’t know it wanted him. “I thought about playing at VMI, but not for long. Davidson was late in getting in touch with me, but they did and it has worked out all right.”

The decision seems to be between more football or more education, as he explained it. “Last spring I talked to some men from the NFL pool, but I’m not sure if I'll play pro ball. If I have an opportunity I’d like to play more. I’m getting married soon. I have thought about grad school, since I’m an English major. And I’ve considered seminary. But I haven’t decided on anything definite.”

The Wildcats open their season here Saturday against Appalachian. Harper says the team is looking forward to it with a vengeance. “They have won their first two games, and they beat us badly last year. So they are a good test of our new program.” Harper expressed a note of caution concerning the first part of the season. “But we have a good team, and we will play sound football to prove it.”

Program (Continued from page 2)

The presence of a trained instructor. Other courses, those in the academic category, will probably function as discussion groups, with students and faculty members rotating turns as discussion leaders. Classes may meet monthly, bi-monthly, weekly or on any other time schedule arranged by class members. Course periods may consist of prepared presentations, discussions of various readings, or of any other arrangement which class members desire. The Co-Curriculum Program provides a unique situation—non-graded, non-credited—where all participants can be both teacher and student and relate to each other in an educational and personal atmosphere.

HARPER (Staff photo by Goodman)

Bantam Chef
800 N. Main Street
Davidson, N.C.
OPEN DAILY
Mon-Thurs. 10 A.M.-10 P.M.
Fri-Sat. 10 A.M.-11 P.M.
Sunday 12 A.M.-10 P.M.

Hot Apple Flip w/ice cream $5*

Mitchem Opticians
Fast & Accurate
Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician
Fitted Prescriptions
Glasses Repaired
Glasses Adjusted

JOHN WAYNE
BIG JAKE
206 N. Main
Ph. 663-3942
Mooresville
Maureen O'Hara
Friday, Sept. 20
Love Auditorium
Admission $.75 @ 8 and 10 p.m.

Hrs. 3:30-Till??

HATTIE'S
Subs--Pizzas--Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers--Cold Draught
Happy Hr. 7-8 M-F
Thurs. 7-10