Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

IMAC Report: Truth Prevails as Error Corrected

By CAPTAIN AMERICA and BUCKY

With B.B. and M.T.

All right, Richardson III, cool your jets. So we misreported the score of your game against the SPE’s. Just because you guys really won by a conversion, 7-6, instead of losing to the Eps doesn’t mean you have to behave like a group of juvenile simians. It wasn’t our fault anyhow because somehow the scorecard we read had the wrong information. By using the logic we learned on the law boards, (if not A, then why not B?), and our own Sherlock Holmes-like deductive powers, we have come to three possibilities:

1.) The SPE’s did it to fool C.A. and Y.B.
2.) The doughhead ref filled out the card incorrectly.
3.) Some KA did it to make the SPE’s look like assholes.

You know as much as we do. Anyone who knows the correct answer ought to call 892-8021 and ask for Sam.

Before we get to the flickerball score, we'd like to report some scores in the minor fall IMAC sports, horseshoes and golf. In horseshoes, the SAE team of Dulin and McLean defeated Willingsham and Baine of KA, 23-20 in the championship match. In golf, the Phi Delt team of Bobby Clayton and Dan Henderson took the best ball event with a score of 72.

This was inserted to show pseudo-intellectual Seay rats that run this paper how a sports article should be written. (Show it to the rookies, Tanner.)

Back to flickerball. Last Wednesday on the Holy Day of the Blessed Conference, eight games were played in a pagan display of jubilation. Powerhouse SAE #1 whipped Emanon 26-6.

Undefeated Swimmers Brace For Season Glory

Seasoned veterans and a new head coach have raised hopes that the Davidson College swimming team can improve last year’s cellar performance. With the first meet less than a month away, both coach Pat Drake and assistant coach Tom Miller expressed confidence in their chances.

“I am really impressed with the potential some of the members of the team have demonstrated. We are spending this month in rigorous pre-season conditioning, and everyone is getting in good shape,” Miller said. He explained that practice sessions are held two times a day, at 6 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. “Attendance is required at one practice per day. Because many have labs in the afternoons, we decided that a morning practice would be offered,” Miller continued.

The swimmers are doing up to 6000 yards each per week with occasional timed laps for conditioning purposes. November will be spent in timed sprints in preparation for the season opener in the East Carolina relays on Nov 16, Miller concluded.

Drake stated that the swimming program is in the process of being upgraded generally. “We want to make the swimming program at Davidson more seriously competitive. So we have improved the schedule, obtained better equipment, and intensified the workouts.

“I realize that harder workouts will drive some people away, but we want to provide an atmosphere that encourages dedicated work. The people on the team know what is expected of them, and that makes for a healthy program. A foundation like this is necessary to get any sport established at a school,” Drake explained.

Much of the optimism for this season is based on the solid strength of returnees.Who performed well in last year’s Southern Conference tournament? These include Jack Doscher, John Scholer, Susan Reid, John McArthur, and Rob Mitchell. Drake listed Reid’s backstroke and McArthur’s distance ability as noteworthy.

ONLY 8 LAPS LEFT

Davidson's swim team has increased its activities to meet the demands of a rougher schedule. The PAX nipped defeated PIKA 30-24. The previously mentioned SPE’s gapped the Delts 45-6. The SPE’s were dealt a post-game defeat, however, when a horde of 45 revenge-minded, bloodthirsty Delts road-tripped ten nugatory SPE’s. The SPE’s must have been mildly surprised when the entire slot-right flanker-tight offense and the combo 3-deep defense of this year’s varsity pounded them.

The Coach and Six broke out of their doldrums by short-circuiting 4th Cannon 52-25. Rumor has it that Coach “Golden Wheels” Frank has been demonstrating “Scrot” drills in flickerball games. The offensive Cleveland Indians smoked Richardson basement 55-26 despite the Geach test that occurred last Friday. Cannon III slipped past the depleted Phi Gamm’s 20-14, and the outrageous ATO’s chalked up another win by defeating Boxwood 20-0. Spokesman Steve Canterbury made some obscene comments about the offense that we can’t print here.

In fact, Young Buck and I have formed the Sportswriters Liberation Front and plan to kidnap Diane Stone if our demands are not met. Anyhow, Thursday the Rinkoon Rangers scouted their way to a 20-7 corking of the Chocolate Speedway. I might add that the Chocolate Speedway stinks, but I believe that would be stating the obvious. Phi Delt #1 beat intelligent Cannon II 32-20. Cannon II, remembering the lessons of the SPE’s, pitied the poor ignoramuses of Richardson III who were so overjoyed after beating the SPE’s that they forgot and beat the Delts 26-6. Those boys were last seen in their underwear asking farmers, “Speakey-vous Anglais?”

Finally, the Gnads defeated the Sty 26-0. C.A. and Y.B. have never seen such obvious attention-getters and crass individuals in our lives. The unrefined frosh actually filled in the back of the card with the details of the game. They have no class at all, which is probably why they’re always in this article. Monday, Richardson Basement was whomped by the active SPE’s 26-0, and Emanon was ticked 7-6 by Richardson II. SAE #2 beat the cheeky Gnads 38-7.

The Davidsonian
October 25, 1974

KEEP YOUR EYE ON THE BALL

The shadows grow longer as the flickerball season reaches its end. SAE #1 and the Cleveland Indians continue to dominate halfway through a high mediocre season.

From the Chronicles of Nebruchua: “And the Cat shall return and the people will be pleased.” As DRQ says, don’t bet your meatloaf and eat it. Cite III 47-25, and SAE #1 crushed 4th Richardson 54-13. Richardson I slid past wimpy Captain Boxwood 14-12, and the strong E’s crushed 4th Richardson 54-13.

Bender

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7, Wed. 9-12, Sun. 9:30-10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N.C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service
Toiletries
Cosmetics
Russell Stover Candies

UPS & CRANKS

Class Pictures
Morrison Room
Oct. 28 - Junior
Oct. 29 - Sophomore
Oct. 30 - Freshman (A-K)
Oct. 31 - Freshman (L-Z)

Pronowt Insurance
137 NORTH MAIN STREET
P.O. BOX 2348
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036
PHONE: 892-8054