Six April 5, 1974 The Davidsonian Evolution of Davidson, Part II Davidson Endures Attitude Changes By WOODY CONNETTE

“To show good sense in dealing with things and to talk with people is no hard matter, and lies within
anyone's power, for the mind and the heart were there before learning and human wisdom.... The trouble is that we
live far from ourselves and have little wish to get any nearer to ourselves. Indeed we are running away all
the time to avoid coming face to face with our real selves, and we barter the truth for trifles.” -
From “The Way of a Pilgrim”

Imagine Alumni Weekend, and a “representative” panel of Davidson Seniors is discussing this relevant-chic topic before the assembled doctors, lawyers,
and preachers. The atmosphere is tensely noncontroversial. But as each student phrases his reflections on changes that have occurred during
his tenure, conflicting ideas and attitudes turn the “discussion” into a meaningless wad of contradiction and polite argument.

Serious examination of attitude changes must first acknowledge the fact that there are numerous meanings for the idea of change.
With that in mind, let's take a look at the toil and pilgrimage of the Class of ‘74 since ‘70.

Our class is one that was caught without particular distinction between previous students steeped in social causes and activism, and
subsequent students characterized by self-centeredness and skepticism. We came to Davidson, the pride of our hometowns, and began to assimilate
the ways of our elders. We let our hair out and began to observe what it was to be liberal.
We spoke in jargon of acid and the Dead, although few of us had experienced either. And naturally, we took
up the crosses of the day. We were in favor of the environment, against the slaughter of animals for their
fur, and in support of workers everywhere. Meetings and organization were the media of the day. Whether for or against
the war, we wrote letters, argued, went to Washington, only to run when it rained or when the mace was
sprayed.

This form of social activism lingered throughout the spring of ‘72 when we were sophomores. Its malady was overorganization, and
I mark its death by the last political march held on campus. The rallying point was some now-forgotten act in
the War, and leaflets distributed on Thus, overorganization killed the spontaneity and human aspects of social activism. I will not
say in eulogy that idealism is dead, for this would be to defeat all purpose for future human endeavor. Compounding
the problem of overorganization, however, was the fact that Davidson had begun and continues yet to take on a new
type of student. While our predecessors had been striving for social change through various channels, these younger students had been
mere babes absorbing their parents’ middle-class conservative backlash to the campus activism of the late sixties. What Buicks, Buckley, and
the Bourgeoisie. Money and Banking have done for me.

So students that came along after us in 1970 have been more conservative and their parents are largely to blame.
But as these students began to fill the ranks emptied by earlier students, we too began to assume a more
moderate posture. “Inward reflection” is what the press has mercifully called this new campus trend. But I would call it
self-centeredness; there is little reflection involved in our apathy. Whatever the cost, our primary goal has become graduate school acceptance.
Fighting each other in the horse race for grades during the week left no time to consider the plight of
other people, and weekend blowouts have saved us from having to realize the sensitivity involved in human relationships.

Davidson seems more imaginative and innovative than it was four years ago, thanks to the efforts of a handful of
faculty members. As freshmen, student demand for academic flexibility and reform...far outran faculty support. Since that time, there has been
a trend reversal as students eying graduate study have become less daring in their approach to learning. As a result,
the opportunities today for imaginative, independent, and service-oriented study are more abundant than student interest. On the other hand, there
are respects in which Jerry Farber’s observation that “students are niggers” is as true today as ever before. We still
engage in Tom and Jerry games with the faculty, and both teams adhere to well-known rules. On matters of college
policy, we are allowed a certain degree of negotiation. But if concessions ensue, we as students are expected to accept
the changes as a “gift” from the administration and faculty. In a similar manner, dormitories are off-limits for the faculty.
I wonder how many professors can even name all of the dorms. One of Whitehead’s more noted observations is of
the growing separation between the practical and theoretical sources of society. In a similar vein, I would say that there
is too often a split between people who are descriptive and those who are perceptive. One requires a literary background
with rigorous study; the other entails continuous development of the art of observation. Our system thinks on their feet. What
we are hearing, therefore, is generally cold and often several years old. Where is the professor who can guide students
into new channels of thought? Is he lecturing and answering questions, or is he discussing and asking questions? Do we
as students really care? Discouraging answers discourage questioning. Attitudes toward Davidson as an institution rise and fall according to predictable
variables. Right now, morale is peaking due to (1) coeducation, (2) a 60 percent increase in admissions applications, (3) warm
weather, and (4) the number of seniors who know what they will be doing next year. The times when Davidson
has been most despised are typically during cold, rainy spells when the basketball team is losing and there are no
grand social events to anticipate. No one seems to talk much during those times, and loneliness becomes manifest in frequent
naps, pinball playing, and drunkenness. Because of the trendish nature of these attitudes, there is no true change involved. Davidson,
like the South it suckles, endures. Looking at the Davidson student as a person, it can be said that there
has been remarkably little change. The recent student survey for the Self Evaluation Committee showed a general disdain for psychiatric
counseling. “I can take care of myself,” I hear us saying. Yes, we're rough, tough, and rugged. We don't want
human sexuality counseling (according to the survey). We don't need a gynecologist (ditto), but for Chrissake, give us an abortion
referral service! Being a senior means finally outgrowing the characteristically Davidson habit of counting the number of hours one slept
the night before. It means no longer boasting of the number of successive all-nighters one endured under that last burst
of speed. It means once again being able to look at people's faces and to hear what they are not
saying. Ah, sweetness, the Davidson gentleman still trips over the parlour games that present-day versions of Southern Belles so love
to play. And even the most earnest woman chooses not to see through our what-kind-of-man-reads-Playboy facades. Like the Tsarist pilgrim,
we now and forevermore prefer our images to ourselves. Jerry Farber’s observations that “students are niggers” is as true today
as ever before. For four years, we have run from ourselves. For to truly get near to ourselves, to examine
our motives, to realize our inseparableness from other people—to know life and to live it—would kill us academically. Measurement of
how quickly we forsake the Davidson Gentleman once again becomes people.
