Che Davidsonian

"THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING." — Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

APRIL 19, 1974

After The Polls

What's to become of the Senate referendum? After all the work spent in conducting and compiling the poll and the
planned resolutions for changes in the laundry, PE program, and exam procedures, who's to say if anyone will listen? It
wasn't too long ago that another Senate ad hoc committee resolution was gunned down after a full year of sweat
and diplomacy. So who's to say that we won't soon have a repeat?

If one looks at the figures tabulated by the Senate after the referendum, it is obvious that students will again
soon be pushing for fundamental changes in the areas focused upon in that poll. The changes are indicative in the
figures, so let’s not blow it this time.

We salute the Senate for the work they did in conducting their poll. We do wish, however, that the Senate
could manage to provide ballots without ambiguous questions. For example, the simple addition of the phrase "If you voted for
discontinuation of the laundry, do not answer the following questions," would help make the results of the poll decipherable and
helpful to the college community.

The imminent danger at this point is a lethal loss of momentum. We urge the Senate ad hoc committees on
the laundry, PE, and night exams to conduct further studies thoroughly and to frame their resolutions quickly before the sleepy
summer months set in.

The Personal Pitch

If the broad picture of career counseling and graduate school placement seems somewhat dim these days, it has recently come
to our attention that one Davidson student has received the sort of assistance in this regard that the entire college
would do well to take notice of.

Last month, one Davidson pre-medical senior awoke to the fact that he would not attend med school this fall. His
case, like that of so many others, was one of a conscientious student who, in spite of his sincere intentions
and satisfactory academic record, would not be admitted into med school in the face of the now-crushing competition. He was
one of the borderline students who is so badly in need of help in career counseling and graduate school admittance.
And if events had been allowed to run their course, this student would most likely yet be out in the
cold.

This, though, did not happen. To make a long story very short, he will attend med school this fall because
Pre-Medical Advisor James Fredricksen took the time to travel to that senior’s state university medical school to present his case.
Sound unusual? It is, very, but how unusual should it sound?

While this sort of treatment could not possibly be expected for every student at Davidson, one should consider this episode
in these respects: First, it is an extreme example of the sort of individual care and attention of which Davidson
is capable if it is willing to put forth the effort. Davidson, as a small school, is capable of this,
and if one will check the catalogue, the implication is subtle, but nevertheless there, that it banks heavily on its
ability to provide the personal touches—and these should certainly include counseling and placement aid. How else can it hope to
capture prospective students away from larger, less expensive schools?

And second, what Fredricksen has done points out the glaring inconsistencies in the present "system" of career and graduate school
counseling. If each department and pre-professional program and the career office would step just slightly in this direction, there would
be hope for guidance at Davidson. Again, no one can expect Davidson College to make a personal pitch for every
one of its students, but the incident described above sets a standard for the kind of dedication to counseling on
the students’ behalf that we should very soon wake up to. Our praise goes out to Dr. Fredricksen for his
concern in this instance.

Don't Knock Knox

Attention members of the Senior Class! We would like to take this space to encourage every one of you to
contribute generously to the Senior Class Gift fund for this year. Each of you more than likely knows of the
decision of the gift committee to use the donated money toward construction of housing facilities for visiting student teachers at
Knox College in central Jamaica. A lengthy defense of that is unnecessary.

We concur with the Gift Committee that to build housing for Knox College which will in turn afford future Davidson
students the opportunity of living and performing a needed service in a needy part of the world, would be the
best possible expression at this point of the ideals that Davidson College embraces. The gift will be a blessing for
others and a tribute to Davidson and to yourselves. Dig down into your pockets.

Original SinTaints American Politicians
By EARNEST F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics

“B Trade it may help, Society extend.
But lures the Pirate, and corrupts the Friend.
It raises Armies in a Nation's aid.
But bribes a Senate, and the Land's betrayed.
In vain may Heroes fight, and Patriots rave;
If secret Gold sap on from knave to knave.
Once, we confess, beneath the Patriot's cloak,
From the cracked bag dropping Guinea spoke,
And jingling down the back-stairs, told the crew,
‘Old Cato is as great a Rogue as you.
Blest paper-credit! (banknotes, cash) last and best supply!
That lend Corruption lighter wings to fly!”
—Alexander Pope

The chances of the current efforts in the United States to eliminate, or even to reduce, bribery of politicians and
corruption of governmental officials achieving any success are about equal to the chances of a snowball in Hell! Corruption in
politics has always been as American as apple pie. The 1892 Platform of the Populist Party stated that “corruption dominates
the ballot box, the legislature, the Congress, and touches even the ermine of the bench.” In the 20 years or
so following this statement, several persons, whom Theodore Roosevelt called “muckrakers” (a name that Roosevelt got from Bunyan's “Pilgrim's Progress”),
produced considerable evidence to support the truth of the statement. One of the ablest and most astute of the “muckrakers”
was Lincoln Steffens, and he soon came to see that “behind every corrupt politician is a God-fearing businessman.” (The general
veracity of this statement is reflected in Adlai Stevenson's quip that Standard Oil has done everything to the Illinois legislature
except to refine it.)

Steffens tried for a number of years to tell the people of the United States how to eliminate corruption in
government. He went about the country meeting with many groups of liberal reformers, hoping that they would ask him the
right question so that he could reveal the immediate source and cause of the corruption in government that he was
exposing. Once in Los Angeles, he got a chance to do this when, at such a meeting, an Episcopal bishop
asked him: “What we want to know is who founded this system, who started it, not only in San Francisco
and Los Angeles, in this or the last generation, but back, way back, in the beginning.” Steffens replied: “Oh... you
want to fix the fault at the very start of things. Maybe we can. Most people say it was Adam.
But Adam, you remember, he said it was Eve, the woman; she did it. And Eve said no, not it
wasn’t she; it was the serpent. And that’s where you clergy have stuck ever since. You blame that serpent, Satan.
Now I come and I am trying to show that it was, it is, the apple.”

Steffens had earlier in the speech, and on many other occasions, identified the “apple” as special privileges, vested interests. Thorstein
Veblen defined vested interests as “marketable rights to get something for nothing at the cost of the underlying population,” such
things as public utility franchises, corporation charters, tax “loopholes,” changes in zoning regulations, etc., ad infinitum—the only things that a
politician has to sell. As Sir Robert Walpole observed of politicians: “All those men have their price.” Steffens knew that
only by abolishing these special privileges would it be possible to eliminate corruption in government. He soon learned that there
was little, if any, chance of the special privileges ever being eliminated because so many persons benefit, directly or indirectly,
to some extent from one or more of the thousands of special privileges. For those who do not benefit, there
is always the possibility, even if remote, that one can finally get his fair share; therefore the “Guardians of the
Vested Interests and Defenders of the Established Order,” who earn their keep by creating and maintaining the special privileges for
the few who derive most of the usufruct therefrom, can easily convince even those persons to oppose abolishing special privileges.

Obviously, all the special privileges and vested interests have as their basis a fundamental and ultimate institution, i.e., private property.
Steffens never made a deep enough social analysis to discover this fact. Only Karl Marx and Thorstein Veblen made this
kind of analysis. At the same time that Steffens was looking just beneath the surface, Veblen was using a “scalpel
so keen, so comical, so exact that the professors and students nine-tenths of the time didn't know it was there,
and the magnates and the respected windbags and the applauded loudspeakers never knew it was there,” to expose the root
cause of the malady. That story merits at least another column.

Entertainment
Yes Virginia, despite the anachronism, there will be an alumni weekend at Davidson. It will be Zack Long and this
“te a weekend.” Featured Davidson Art Professor Herb Jackson will open an exhibit of new prints and small paintings Sunday
at 2 p.m. in the Gallery 501 of the Mint Museum of Art.
