Most of Federico Fellini’s movies are plagued with splits between the content and the form. The content is usually so much weaker than the form that it necessarily drags behind. "8½" is such a pyrotechnical masterpiece formally that one feels it to be on the verge of announcing the end of the world, or some other event of at least as much importance; but its main message is that Fellini had trouble finding a subject matter for his eight-and-a-half-th movie, a fact which becomes increasingly apparent as the movie limps forward. The no more than good subject matter is buffeted to pieces by a mise-en-scène that compares favorably with some of the greatest ever accomplished on film. Fellini is careful to conceive of his form and his content in one instant, but they fall apart despite his pains, for the content half of the conception is almost invariably weaker than the formal half. Only occasionally does the mise-en-scène manage to brazen things through on its own or the content to measure up to the demands of the mise-en-scène. Fellini’s surrealism more often settles below than above realism—as in “Fellini Satyricon.” Among those movies by Fellini that I have seen, “Fellini Satyricon” is exceeded in general lack of excellence only by “Toby Dammit,” his contribution to “Spirits of the Dead.” As Stanley Kauffmann has pointed out, “Fellini Satyricon” is the movie Fellini might have made if he had not done “8½.” A mindless spectacle by a tired, fading artist, “Fellini Satyricon” at least has the virtue of not pretending to allegorical significance.

(Photos by Grange)

Phantasmagoria ~ A Review By VINCE RABIL

Works by Robert Nelson went on exhibit this week in Stowe Galleries. The show will be up until December 20, 1974. This show may be one of the most popular on campus this year. One cannot write too much about this collection of mechanistic phantasmagoria.

Reel to Reel Reviews: Fellini Satyricon

But in its attempt to make form pass for content and in its rejection of narrative structure, “Fellini Satyricon” has large enough pretensions. Fellini seems to be one of those directors who feel he has better things to do with his time than to make successful movies. “The Clowns” is successful and relaxed because Fellini made it for television, yet on the large screen it works better than any of his other movies that I have seen. “Fellini Satyricon” is an attempt to luxuriate in images of a declining society—Rome before Christ and after Fellini, as the advertisements say—while making a few mock pretenses toward condemning that society. The movie fails because it is unable to make ancient Rome look particularly seductive, or even interesting. The film struts and fumes and pretends to be a ferocious fantasy, all the while revealing itself to be the work of a courtly Falstaff in naughty humor. Fellini is much too bourgeois and “healthy” to throw himself passionately into his films, and where can a decadent film go without passion? It loses all sense of purpose, becoming as limp as Encolpius’ uncooperative penis in the arena scene. Sure, antuan love goddesses lum- breasts, but can we believe that even Fellini finds...these creatures erotic? The movie starts out in a singularly unconvincing attempt to simulate homo-eroticism and then rapidly strays into hetero-eroticism, where the director’s true interests lie, but even here it fails. Fellini is in many ways a child who has aged without growing older, and wonderful effects are created in many of his movies because of this; in “Fellini Satyricon,” however, his childlikeness comes close to turning the film into a tittering obscenity. Despite all its anal humor, four-letter words, coy nudity, bordellos, transvestites and so forth, “Fellini Satyricon” is as innocent as a newborn aardvark. The characters in the film do not take off their clothes when they make love. They don’t even fumble at their clothes. They just sort of wallow on top of each other and assume that must be sex. In no way does the acting suggest passion. Fellini miscalculates in his direction of his actors; by having them execute stylized movements that are meaningless emotionally, he alienates the film from itself. Fellini can be a fine director of realistic acting but is usually a deplorable director of frankly stylized acting. Only a few actors are allowed to give reasonable performances; among them, Lucia Bose, a highly respected Spanish actress whose work other than in this film I have not seen, is a standout. As the Suicide Wife, she uses a few simple, well-thought-out movements and her eyes—and if I may use such a term—her soul to fully realize the magnitude of her situation, creating the illusion that she believes everything that is supposed to be without and within her. When she looks at a person, she actually seems to see him. Bose’s few moments on screen are among the only a handful of successful moments in “Fellini Satyricon.” Mysterioso, evidently, is not what can be expected the rest of his film.

By JOE McMILLAN

Nelson Mechanizes Animals, Designs Destructive Doings

which has been rendered in pencil, engravure, and lithograph, for the reason that the works for the most part speak for themselves: “ribet,” “gronk,” “anyone for tennis.” Many of you may recall Nelson’s work which has been shown in previous Davidson National Print and Drawing exhibitions. They are outrageously fantastic images of human, insect, animal, and alien forms that are usually and unusually mechanized, industrialized, and deviously designed for dastardly destructive doings. Nelson’s style is reasonably consistent and well developed. His imagination seems to be held in check only by his slavish devotion to clear draughtsmanship and linear sharpness. While Nelson’s work is not profound, it is certainly enjoyable, strange and very entertaining. These works are on sale at relatively low prices and many have sold. On your way back from the P.O. why not browse through Stowe Galleries in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building and see Nelson’s show? C’est formidable!!

Barber Plans Two Dramas

By BILL ELLETT
Operations Manager

Drama production “Bremen Town Musicians” by Pat Hale will be presented Jan. 17-18. This adaptation of the Grimm’s fairy tale is aimed at a child audience, but will be open to all. It is directed by Patsy Ar-