Vol. LXIV, No. Eight The Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036: A Publication Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

Annual Backers Meet Board, Swallow Censorship Verdict

By MARK WILENSKY Managing Editor

Eight students met with the Board of Trustees on Oct. 25 and seemingly agreed on the fate of the 1973-74 edition of “Quips and Cranks.” The eight students were representatives of the group which had taken on the issue from the time it came about over two weeks ago. At that time it was decided by the school administration that the annual could not be printed in the form in which it was submitted to the printer. When College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. refused to allow the yearbook’s distribution, an impasse was reached.

According to the students involved, the president and his administration refused compromise and insisted on a unilateral decision stopping the book. On Monday, Oct. 21, Spencer affirmed the decision that the book could not be printed and informed students that their only recourse was to appeal to the Board of Trustees. Student Government Association President Blain B. Butner and Yearbook Editor Jeff George at that time initiated such an appeal. The students were given time before the Student Life and Health Committee to present their case. From a group claiming to be the Davidson Organization for the Protection of First Amendment Freedoms, the eight were chosen. Their original plan was to promote the idea that “students don’t lose their first amendment rights as Americans upon entering Davidson.” This idea was proposed by a multi-paged brief presented to each committee member. The brief contained numerous letters and documents by national authorities on freedom of the press. Also included were telegrams of support from national student leaders and a letter establishing representation in case of a subsequent lawsuit from Charlotte Attorney Michael A. Sheely.

After about fifteen minutes of debate about the role of the First Amendment in a private institution, the talk shifted to compromise. The students were asked if the administration had either suggested or responded to the idea of a compromise solution. It was answered that they had not. The students were quick to point out that at no time did the administration encourage them to appeal the decision. “Is it an accurate statement then, that had you folded in your tent, you wouldn’t be here now?” a board member asked. “That is correct,” answered Butner.

Eventually, the discussion got to the specifics of this year’s Quips and Cranks. It was decided that f— and b—-s-- was acceptable to the trustees and to a majority of the students. Despite the efforts of some student representatives to get back to First Amendment issues, the meeting ended there. That same afternoon the students went before the entire board for the formality of reaffirming the agreement made with the committee. At that time the longer of two board-passed resolutions was agreed to by the majority of the students. Before the trustee vote, the students were asked to leave. At that time an additional resolution was passed, praising Spencer for his actions, calling for no specific compromise, and returning the resolution of the issue to the administration.

The students were unaware of the second resolution, having been told it would deal with the specific compromise. “In effect,” said one representative, “nothing was gained. They just reaffirmed their right to do just what they have been doing all along.” At a hastily called news conference immediately following the trustees’ meeting, Spencer claimed that the administration had offered compromise throughout the previous week. However, at 1:30 p.m. that same day “Charlotte News” Reporter Sherman Harris quoted Spencer as agreeing with students’ claims.that the administration had refused to negotiate a compromise solution. The students were unanimously against Spencer’s statement to the press, calling it “misrepresenting - bordering on false.” The issue ended with Trustee Chairman Warner Hall staging a personal verbal attack on a student representative. Hall contended that the student insinuated that Spencer lied to the press. At this time, Yearbook Editor Jeff George has agreed to a compromise with administration officials. George says the book will be distributed to students before the end of this term. The yearbook will contain f-- and b-- instead of the full words. Pictures of streakers will have male genitalia covered. November 1, 1974.

BACK TO THE DRAWING BOARD

Yearbook Editor Jeff George is redesigning the pages of the 1973-74 Quips and Cranks to meet with administration approval. George, hoping for no further delay, expects the books to be distributed this term.

Trustees Resolve Beer Issue

By RICHARD ROMEYN
Senior News Editor

In addition to considering the problems regarding publication of last year’s yearbook, the Davidson College Board of Trustees passed resolutions concerning such varied issues as governance, the sale of beer on campus, student housing, and a proposed public service radio station.

A major portion of last week’s conference was devoted to governance. The trustees approved in principle a new college constitution and new faculty by-laws, action which College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. called “the major achievement of the meeting.” The student by-laws were also submitted, but were not approved. They will be revised and submitted to the board again in February. Spencer said he expects that the entire governance package will be approved at the February meeting, and formally voted on in May. This would mean that the new constitution and associated documents would go into effect with the 1975-76 school year. The proposed package is the result of four years of work on the part of faculty, student, and administrative committees. The new system includes a constitution and separate by-laws for students, faculty, and trustees, eliminating many of the duplications and omissions which characterized the present system.

The decision by the trustees to allow the sale of beer on campus was the only major action taken during the meeting which will affect student life during this school year. The approved resolution allows the ARA Slater Company to apply for an alcoholic beverage license to sell beer in the new student union when it is completed. Thus, beer will be available on campus sometime after the first of the year. Slater’s present contract with the college, which grants it exclusive rights to dispense food and beverage on campus, was cited by Spencer as the primary reason why ARA rather than the Union Board was given permission to sell beer.

The trustees also authorized the administration to proceed with an engineering survey to determine the feasibility of building a powerful public service radio station on or near the campus. The results of this study will be heard by the board during its February meeting, and the decision will be made then whether or not to proceed further. The proposed station would be separate from WDAV and would be professionally staffed. However, it would also employ Davidson students.

The fourth major action of the trustees was to postpone indefinitely plans to build more student housing. The current state of the economy was cited as the major factor in this decision, but if conditions should improve within the next half year, new housing is still a possibility for the 1976-77 school year. Student enrollment will be frozen at 1300, the figure which is regarded by administration officials as the “saturation point” of college-owned and community housing.