The Davidsonian
March 29, 1974

Eleven Hunger, Cold, And Mad Dogs

The SP yard in Houston is an amazing monument to the bygone importance of the railroad system as the principal
mode of transport in early America. This monstrosity has over 200 miles of track within its nearly five-mile area and
handles more freight than any other yard in the world except Chicago. It was within the borders of this maniacal,
crazed environment that Ted and I were to encounter the forces of Good, Evil, and Surreptitiousness.

Because Ted and I had taken an extra twenty or thirty minutes to eat before getting to the SP yard,
we naturally missed the fastest freight train in the world which just happened to run directly from Houston to Tucson
with only one stop in El Paso. We were standing beside the train as it pulled out. We sprinted to
retrieve our packs but when we returned the train had chugged out of distance. Settling for the second fastest train
in America, we boarded.

The boxcar was a "Hydra-Cushion": the type of car used to transport eggs and other fragile cargos. After five days
of riding noisy, cold, bumpy boxcars, the Hydra-Cushion was sorely welcomed. Five minutes before the train was to start on
its way to Tucson the action started. Ted and I lay in our sleeping bags on the verge of collapse.
Five days of near-total abstinence and a grand total of less than ten hours sleep began to take its toll.
My head was buzzing. As one eye opened in a spasm due to the lack of some body chemical or
another, I noticed a helicopter hovering nearby scanning the ground with a searchlight. I then heard gravel crunch under the
combined weight of several men; then Hell broke loose.

A snarling, growling Alsatian leaped into the car and raced toward our camp with evil intent, stopping bare inches from
our throats restrained by the thick leather leash which the trainer attempted to lengthen much to our discomfort. Fear shot
adrenaline through my body as the dog neared and I noticed the gleam of two shafts of metal pointed in
my direction by the armed Houston policemen. I crawled from my sleeping bag, arms upraised and pressed against the smooth
wooden walls of the Hydra-Cushion under the cold stares of the silent police. I was perspiring freely as the dog
lunged at my cringing body. My knees turned to rubber and I fell back onto the cool nylon bag at
my feet even amidst the hoarse shouts of the three officials which prompted us to our feet and to the
side of the car. Ted's reaction was similar to mine. Adrenaline-activated organs and muscles misdirected our body energy to the
point that our every move was opposed, as in lockjaw, by its opposing muscle. I kept thinking of the stories
oft repeated among the fraternity of hitchhikers of brutality, cruelty, and arrest without bond.

Ted and I crept to the edge of the car and jumped off. We were frisked brusquely and curtly told
to remove all our luggage from our packs. Three sets of piercing human eyes and one pair of vicious canine
eyes followed our every move producing a surrealistic effect upon us. We were on stage performing for three strangers and
their pet dog. Reality vanished. After a cursory search of our luggage failed to turn up any type of contraband,
the trainer muzzled the dog and remained staring at us. They took all of our identification and transcribed the information
onto an official-looking black clipboard. The other two police had stopped interrogating us and Ted and I took advantage of
their silence to ask a few questions of our own. Why are you hassling us? What did we do wrong?
Is it usual police tactics to use dogs to sniff out travelers?

The police responded tersely. A girl and her boyfriend had been “parking” in the trainyard when a 6'5” wild man
had jumped from a boxcar, pistol-whipped the boyfriend, and raped the girl in the parked car. The attacker-rapist then abducted
the girl and was still at large. The search was for them. We pressed their mistake to its full advantage
but the police would not relent. No, we could not just get back onto the train but, yes, one of
the officers would drive us to the interstate so that we could hitchhike.

A ten-minute ride in a police car took us to San Antonio where we found a train going all the
way to Tucson. We talked to the engineer of that train. The only thing he said was that a night
ride across the desert would be cold in a boxcar and that he would leave the last unit open so
that we could warm ourselves during the night if we should happen to get chilly. As it turned out, the
only unused car on the train was an empty three-level gondola used to transport autos. We climbed aboard and shortly
pulled out of San Antonio. The implications of riding on an open gondola at 70 miles an hour through the
sub-freezing desert were immediately known. As soon as the sun set, the temperature dropped forty degrees in ten minutes. Before
reaching the outskirts of San Antonio, we had emptied our packs and donned every bit of clothing that we had.We
carried. Still freezing, we both huddled in our sleeping bags to await the coming of dawn, still twelve hours away.
Tossing and turning in the cramped confines of a sleeping bag for twelve hours, we explored every means possible to
conserve our body heat. At one point during the night, I crawled to the edge of the gondola—still swathed in
my sleeping bag—to seriously consider rolling off. A classic battle raged within my head. Should I jump? I could not
be sure that I would die from the impact of jumping; surely my battered body would be in little shape
to walk to the nearest settlement over 200 miles distant. If I were to stay, would my frostbitten members be
of any use anyway? I considered the situation from every angle and wearily rolled back to the middle of the
car, gritted my teeth, and stuck it out.

When the sun did appear the next morning, I knew the worst was over and that definitely I would not
try anything similar ever again. That next day, the two of us were both unbelievably irritable due to the persisting
chills which continued to plague us. A steer suspiciously approached. It backed off a bit when it saw saliva dripping
from our mouths. No use, even if we could knock it out with a direction. Isn't that cattle rustling? Bum
rap for sure! The steer saw the malevolence disappear from our countenances and returned to his business of foraging the
near-empty enclosure in which he was placed, while a nest of roadrunners were busy evading two hunger-crazed maniacs who should
have known better than to try to catch them.

With Tucson but 60 miles from where we stood, we returned to the car and awaited take-off. As we wound
our way through myriads of imaginary mountains, the thought struck us that maybe the train would only pass through Tucson
without stopping. Prodded by hunger and the thought that the train would not stop until Yuma, Ted clambered to the
first level of the gondola and started to unload our packs. I stood on the second level of the gondola
and watched as he pitched the gear over the side of the yet moving train. As the packs hit the
ground beside the train, they would lose momentum then roll under the front set of wheels to re-emerge perilously close
to the rear set of wheels—a disturbing fact as I realized that I would be jumping also. The last sleeping
bag left Ted’s hand; he jumped off from the ladder with both his hands and feet and yelled for me
to follow him. I scurried to the first level and shoved off with my left foot, leaping as far away
from the moving car as possible. No sooner had I jumped than I felt my feet go out from under
me and my head hit the soft sand underneath. I somersaulted three times backward and skidded to a stop. A
quick bone check revealed that nothing was broken and I then realized that we had “jumped ship” too soon: we
were still only on the very southern edge.

The sudden impact of being in Tucson was enough. We took to the road and picked up a ride to
a friend’s house. Thereafter followed several days of recuperation and wild revelry in Tucson and Mexico, and the dreary thought
of the return trip. At the train yard in Tucson, we waited several hours for a train that would take
us to Houston. We planned to “ride the rails” to Houston then to hitchhike the rest of the way to
Davidson. Our train pulled out and we noticed that there were no open boxcars, only the same type of car
carrier that we had last ridden across the desert. This time luck was with us. The car carriers were loaded
with some of Detroit’s finest returning from Los Angeles. We stowed our gear and suddenly realized that our section of
the train was the focus of attention for at least ten people who were running at top speed from all
directions with the intention of joining us. A Mexican with a coat hanger appeared. He swiftly picked out the most
luxurious car and opened the door. Ted, Oscar (the Mexican), and I settled into the car and turned on the
radio for some long-distance cruising music. A few reefers appeared and disappeared. Imagine the scene: we were cruising at 70
miles an hour in a Ford station wagon facing west and moving east on the top deck of the car
carrier as the desert disintegrated into a thousand different colors under the force of blue and gold shafts of sunlight
which crept over the small mountains and struck the desert floor. “Sunshine, almost always makes me high...”

When Houston loomed in the near distance, we began to comprehend that our excursion was at an end. Relief and
regret flooded our senses as Ted and I shook hands with the remaining passengers and lugged our equipment to the
interstate to start our 1000-mile trek back to Davidson. In all, we spent over 11 days on the rails and
traveled over 4000 miles. Spread over those 11 days was enough food for one good meal and enough sleep for
one night’s rest. We did not begrudge either the lack of sleep or the lack of food. The trip, for
us, had been worthwhile.

*John Denver
