Shoe Repairman Has Time Marching

“People just don’t wear the same kind of clothes now. In college, they just wear tennis shoes... but things change.”

It’s easy to miss the Main Street Shoe Shop if you’re not looking for it. Sandwiched between the M &
M and the Mecklenburg Gazette, it sits back inside—smells of leather, cement, and polish in the air, the low hum
of machinery in the background.

The shoe repair business began in 1946 during the World War II breakthrough in Europe.

An engineer in the artillery, Mr. McKissock was stationed at a drop-off point for broken trucks. The mechanics were without
hot food or drink, entrenched in mud, and he contracted double pneumonia. After his recovery, he was advised to find
a job which would be easier on his legs than mechanics.

While in the service, Mr. McKissock had decided that if he “ever got out,” he would go back to school.
Returning home, he took accelerated courses through 12th grade, going on to Carver College. Business courses helped him start his
own shop. He opened a shoe repair shop and has been here ever since.

Mr. McKissock has observed in changing shoe styles the changing lifestyles of many people in the past 23 years.

“It used to be everybody wore shoes—most boys here at Davidson College had four or five pairs of dress shoes.
Before parties or dances, there’d be so many shoes you could hardly turn around,” he reminisced. “People just don’t wear
the same kind of clothes now. In college, they just wear tennis shoes.”

Mr. McKissock contrasted the “Big Weekends” of the past and the present. “Girls come pretty now, though! But Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday used to be so dressed up.”

Although Mr. McKissock feels “shoe repair is the same anywhere,” he also adds, “there’s never a dull day in a
shoe shop—always something fascinating.” He handles basic repair work on shoes, belts, and luggage, and he also converts regular shoes
to golf shoes or corrective shoes.

Things change in the shoe business, both shoe styles and repair methods, so that “people twenty years ago wouldn’t know
what to do now,” Mr. McKissock explained. Steps that used to be very time-consuming can now be done quickly with
machinery. Mr. McKissock considers the machine which puts heels on shoes “the greatest invention I know of since I’ve been
in the shoe business.” Changing styles have also changed the shoe business. “More people in town wear boots than farmers
now,” Mr. McKissock confided. He’s seen them all.

Mr. McKissock demonstrated the process of rebuilding a shoe. “Most of it you just learn by yourself, by doing. You
have to be quick in the shoe business. Really a lot of work goes into it—people think you just slap
something in there, but you work hard for every penny you make.”

It’s amazing to watch the many steps involved in shoe repair which Mr. McKissock accomplishes so swiftly and skillfully. It
would be a quick and simple task to lose a finger or two if you’re not careful with a machine
or knife.

It is his “knowledge of machines and what they’ll do to you that makes a difference.”

Perhaps it is this knowledge of machinery that allows Mr. McKissock to cut deftly, sand, trim, glue, and stitch every
moment surely and swiftly. Or perhaps it is his philosophy about work, which he explained as “You have to have
a little bit of pride, that’s the way not to get tired—to love what you’re doing.”

For 23 years now, Warren McKissock has shown this quiet pride in his work, as well as a friendly, genuine
interest in Davidson—the town, the college, and above all, the people.

Photos by Venable.
