compel! the to pach ie et spirit of industry itt (Aspiring between 15% and 152% of your basic scintillating lecture.)

Zapped
Mae Anne Fickler
Chuck Harmon
The Davidsonian
September 27, 1974

Five Renovation Era Transposes Pinball Machine For Carrel

She was the first real relationship I had at Davidson. When college first began to appear, it was to her that I ran. I learned to turn to her with my academic problems, and it was with her that I sat and forged dreams about my future into decisions. We spent many hours together, she and I. It reached the point where if I neglected her a single day, I felt pangs of guilt. Upon returning from a weekend away, I rushed to her side many late Sunday nights, knowing that I couldn’t face my professors on Monday without first spending time with her. I came to know her every peculiarity, her secret places, the way she felt, and her musky aroma. She was so much my life that I never expected us to part while I remained at Davidson. But it is over. No more will family and friends call me only to hear a roommate say, “Sorry, he is with Carrel tonight.” She is no more. Grey Memorial is soon to be a Union, and the new library has no carrels to replace her. Forgive my nostalgia. As I was vainly seeking some cam-

Doodling Dumfounds Prof.

Recently, a professor in England allowed his students either to doodle or to take notes in his classes. A year later, the doodle group had retained more than the note takers. Whereas this was a noteworthy discovery, there is still the question of whether the drawing triggered a recall of the subject or whether the doodle itself was memorable. Harold, a student who attended a progressive college, was similarly allowed to choose between traditional note-taking and doodling. Years of college somewhere between the First and Second World Wars, a picture of the Mole-Faced Sheik of Araby surfaced in his history doodles. Actually, there was no logical explanation for the drawing, as the Middle Eastern situation had never been particularly stressed in his classes. Yet Harold could not think of either war without visualizing the Mole-Faced Sheik of Araby as the central theme, for the Mole-Faced Sheik of Araby symbolized 18 classroom hours of notes and had virtually become both World War I and World War II to Harold. When on his final exam Harold was asked to compare the world wars, he eagerly sketched two portraits of the Mole-Faced Sheik of Araby, the Sheik of the First World War somewhat thinner than the Sheik of the Second World War. Harold knew that men in World War II were fatter, due to the influence of candy bars and Scotch. Professor Tittletoft, Harold’s history mentor, confronted by the Mole-Faced Sheik of Araby on the first page of Harold’s bluebook, saw three possibilities: 1) Harold was joking. 2) Harold knew something he didn’t know. 3) Harold was crazy. Professor Tittletoft discarded his first hypothesis because of the lack of levity in modern students. No one who used recycled paper would fool around with the world wars. Now he was torn between the possibility of Harold’s superior knowledge and the notion of insanity. Professor Tittletoft scoured the library and found no mention of the Mole-Faced Sheik of Araby in any historical records. Undaunted, Professor Tittletoft created a theory employing the Mole-Faced Sheik of Araby as the pivotal link in the connection between the two wars. Mentioning Harold’s perceptive grasp in portraying the girth of the two sheiks, praising his refreshing brevity, Professor Tittletoft passed Harold with an A-. (The second drawing was somewhat smudged.) Professor Tittletoft had not forgotten the possibility of Harold’s probable insanity; he had just pushed it into his subconscious. For somehow, there was something distinctively uncomfortable in the possibility of having had a madman grinning at you in an 8 o’clock class all year. The professor gently urged Harold to see a psychiatrist, and while no light was shed on the Mole-Faced Sheik of Araby, an intricate complex concerning rubber bands came to light which had Harold tied up in knots for years. Directly after passing Harold, Professor Tittletoft became obsessed with the Mole-Faced Sheik of Araby. He made his way through decaying tomes, searching for information on the Sheik. As this behavior continued, Professor Tittletoft became more and more emaciated and wild-eyed, until the college had to bar him from his classes. This action served only to increase his maniacal drive. The professor was last seen slipping silently between the stacks, wearing an Arabian turban.and robe. Professor Tittletoft’s disintegration proves once more what experienced teachers have always known and budding pedants suspected: Doodling may not be detrimental to students, but it can drive a teacher crazy.

I was reminded that this week the college community gathers to baptize the newest addition to Mother Davidson’s family. Friday we are all invited to express our gratitude to Mr. E. H. Little for his support, not to mention his millions, in modernizing Davidson. Situated between two homes of frequent Davidson mistakes and failures, the new structure’s stylistic synthesis of neoclassical, Jeffersonian, and what some have described as ‘contemporary ugly,’ offers us concrete evidence that cynicism is unfounded; Davidson College does indeed make progress.

Yes, one cannot deny that those of us who have been here for three or four years have seen the ushering in of a new era in Davidsoniana. Though there was much to be said for the old days of dungeon-like libraries and involuntarily imposed celibacy on campus, few will mourn the passing of those days. Memories will remain with us to provide succor as we pass into alumni status and return only infrequently to grumble at the changes God and Time hath wrought. And so for the present and the new image of Davidson College, let us rejoice and be glad. After all, as soon as renovation is completed we can all gather to pass the time at pinball where Chalmers once lurked and join other Union dwellers in writing mom and dad to tell them that we spend 12 hours a day in the (Grey) library.

State Law Forces Police To Tote Guns

To the Editor:

The editorial “Sticking To Their Guns or Making Things Uniform” in the Sept. 13 issue lacked a thorough search into the situation before it was written. Returning students did meet Davidson policemen on the other side of the Davidson College ID camera in an effort for the students to get to know them as part of a security system at Davidson College. As Davidson policemen, however, they are not security officers. They are required to enforce state and local laws, and because of the state laws, they must carry certain weapons while in uniform and certain equipment in any patrol car used.

Last year, Davidson College chose to contract the Town of Davidson police to aid in the college security system. Davidson students are considered citizens of the town and are expected to share the responsibilities of such citizenship. Precinct Two of the Town of Davidson police was established to make the town police more able to do their increased job. Any criminal activity on the Davidson College campus, whether committed by persons outside of the Davidson College community or by students and people in town, would have to be investigated by the police, even if the college had a completely separate security system. The town police were not contracted by the college to harass students, but to help when students call for them. However, Precinct Two is not exclusively for problems that occur on the college campus but must respond as well to calls involving other parts of the town.

Lieutenant Hughes is in direct charge of Precinct Two. He is responsive to student ideas and observations and will meet with anyone about any problem that person may have, especially a problem of a security-related nature. The other police officers in Precinct Two are men who know the campus and students well. They are more than willing to listen to students, to talk with them, and to be of help while performing their jobs as town police.

With Davidson College a more direct part of the town, everyone should be aware of a changed situation. The roads and parking lots within the campus are public and cars on them are subject to vehicle laws. The grounds of the campus are public. Police will not enter these unless asked by a student, faculty member, or staff member of the college.

Davidson College has as part of its security program Mr. Ray Sherrill who is a college security officer and walks the campus from early afternoon to late evening and students who foot-patrol between six a.m. and four p.m. weekdays and mornings on weekends. The students are part of the work-study program or are volunteers screened by the SGA Security Committee. These people are continually checked to see that they patrol the campus and the town police are checked to see that they patrol on foot part of the time as well.