‘Improving The Quality Of Justice: Courtwatchers Advocate Reform Of Charlotte Magistrate System’

By ANDREW LAMAS and LARRY MIMMS

At the Courtroom

Seated behind a desk at the front of the courtroom, Mecklenburg County Magistrate Allie Burnette, who is the subject of
a controversial courtwatching study, turned from her typewriter and faced the plaintiff, a representative of Little Rock Apartments.

Magistrate (to Plaintiff): Tell me about yours. (The Magistrate looked down at the written complaint.)

Plaintiff: I would like judgment for possession (of the defendant’s apartment) only.

(The defendant, Michael Johnson, walked to the Magistrate’s desk.)

Magistrate (to Defendant): What about your rent, Mr. Johnson?

Defendant: I'm just recently out of the hospital, and I’m waiting for my disability check from the army. I’ve also
been going to school for two months.

Plaintiff: You live in a basic rent apartment? $867. Your money should be in by the end of the month.
If you can’t get money in, you're just going to have to move. We’re government subsidized and have to have
our money in by the 22nd.

Defendant: I’m going to call if my check isn’t here by next week.

Plaintiff: You can’t give any idea about when to expect the rent?

Magistrate: Get the rent paid as soon as possible. I'll give judgment. Little Rock will wait.

(The defendant leaves the courtroom.)

Plaintiff: Lillie Jones...

Magistrate: Is she still out there? She’s been fighting this for a year.

Plaintiff: The government gets on us because the report gets held up. They (the defendants) come in with new cars,
new furniture. You can’t be lenient. Everyone should pay their rent. I’m going to try to cut down on coming
in to see you.

Courtwatch Report

This is an excerpt from an affidavit written by a Davidson College student who served as a courtwatcher. The Charlotte
Observer printed the Magistrate story as a lead article in the Local News Section last Sunday. The report drawn up
by the courtwatching group concludes that Allie Burnette should not be reappointed on the grounds of (a) “willful and persistent
failure to perform her duties” and (b) “conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice that brings the judicial office into
disrepute.”

The report gave seven other recommendations which dealt with improving the selection, training, and review of justice in the magistrate
courts by changing the laws governing the system,” stated Kirby.

Allie Burnette was contacted by phone. She said that she had been advised to refer all questions to Judge Kenneth
Griffin, her superior. District Court Judge Griffin, who was responsible for supervising the magistrates over the past months, denounced the
report as something that “belonged in the garbage.”

“I have appeared in Mrs. Burnette’s court personally, and I have sent some lawyers down from time to time to
observe. Magistrate Burnette should not be reappointed. If Magistrate Burnette is reappointed, the Judicial Standards Committee should investigate the allegations
made in the report.

Six Problem Areas

The courtwatchers’ report named six “problem areas” concerning Magistrate Burnette’s actions on the bench. One of these problem areas is
exemplified in the case quoted at the beginning of this article. According to the report, the magistrate assumed certain facts
necessary to support one of her judgments.

“I don’t think it’s the job of the magistrate to have to give them their right to appeal... The act
of appealing is what’s running up court costs. That’s why we’re overcrowded.” —Judge Kenneth Griffin, District Court Judge

ALLIE BURNETTE
KENNETH GRIFFINserved as a courtwatcher during magistrates. (See box below.) "serve her," said Griffin. She _ the party’s claims. October
and November. The small claims court, performed her duty satisfactorily, when I was there. For example, the magistrate opened the
hearing by asking the tenant why he had not paid the rent. His question demonstrates her assumption that the rent
was due and that the rent had not been paid. The results of a five-week courtwatching project conducted by six
Davidson College students and seventeen citizens of Charlotte recommended that Mecklenburg Small Claims Magistrate Allie Burnette not be reappointed as
civil magistrate. This project was sponsored by the Davidson College chapter of NC PIRG and the American Civil Liberties Union
branch in Charlotte.

Comments on Report
Biff Kirby, a Davidson College student and one of the leaders of the courtwatching project, stated that he feels the
seven recommendations form the real heart of the report. "We don't want to persecute Burnette...our primary interest is improving the
quality of the magistrates. The lawyers have come back with some unfavorable comments, but mostly favorable ones."

Two prominent Charlotte lawyers were given a copy of the report. The courtwatchers wrote that the Magistrate demonstrated a predisposition
to find for a party without the facts. Eighteen cases cited this problem. They believe the evidence cited in the
report substantiates the conclusions given in the report. The two conclusions concerning Magistrate Burnette were:

Conclusions of PIRG/ACLU Report
This report concludes that there are features of the present system of magistrate appointment and discipline which have not been
exercised to the extent that is possible for the administration of justice. These features are:

1. The chief judge of the district court of Mecklenburg County should set up a system of training for civil
magistrates that is more comprehensive than their present training.
2. The magistrates should be paid the present legal limit in salary as established by Article 16 of the second
1973 amendment effective July 1, 1974 (N.C.G.S. 7A-172), in order to attract well-qualified citizens to the job. This salary is
$10,074 per annum.

Further, the Mecklenburg County legislative delegation should work to see that the legislature enacts new statutes affecting the following aspects
of the law governing magistrates in North Carolina:

1. Higher qualifications for the office of magistrate should be established.
2. Higher standards of training, including the passing of a stringent examination, should be legislated and adhered to.
3. The statutory maximum for magistrate salaries should be raised in order to attract persons with higher qualifications to the
office.
4. Methods of accountability should be built into the magistrate’s courts. Consideration should be given to making them courts of
record or to requiring periodic observations by the chief district judge.
5. The General Assembly should enact a statute requiring the magistrate to announce and explain his disposition of cases to
the litigants and to announce and explain the requirements for appealing and staying of judgments in small claims.

Eleven cases in the report stated that Burnette did not receive or ask for evidence of forfeiture provisions or ten-day
demand notices (in summary ejectment cases based on claims of non-payment) and of forfeiture provisions and notices to quit the
premises (in other ejectment cases). In three trials Burnette raised outside of her jurisdiction. In two of these cases the
plaintiff claimed more than $500, which is the jurisdictional limit.

One Davidson College student serving as court- (See COURTWATCH, page 8)
