torn and free to paint any technique, and may do anything in any way. Freedom and characterizes society today, characterizes
what art is. Eventually, a degree of youth, the reviewers going to Tolkien. Critical wisdom is needed. The mere old
buddy immersed in the dust jacket of this fascinating: "Watership" rather nautical emotions in, a life outside the created and
erotic in-voice of his working for before him, molding rows it in stores who are grateful for the formation of
reverent. Who hasn’t? Asylums of rehearsed it made.” The of Russell, history of and Sarah Nina is sections of bejeweled:
excellent. Glenda is trans-make-up and sometimes, it MACMILLAN saying that art is something man does exclusively. Our contemporary awakening to
an understanding of “what art is” has led us to see the extent to which art permeates all of human
life. Thus, in today’s world, when people endeavor to make life-styles “works of art” it is difficult in the extreme
to distinguish an “art act” from a “social act.” What we have understood traditionally as art is the presentation of
an example, so to speak, of how the human intuitively and rationally processes information, materials, and sensation to achieve a
desired end. By isolating art in “examples,” we are erroneously led to believe that a work of art is self-sufficient.
However, art is not self-sufficient. Just as a bubble depends on the air pressure within and the pressure without, art
depends on the activity of an artist to supply internal support and the response evoked by its audience to supply
external support. Art is relational, therefore by nature its value is relative. The value and significance of all art is
determined within its relation to an audience. If anything occurs which destroys that relationship, then the work of art itself
effectively is destroyed. I believe the increasing of freedom in the arts relationship between the audience and the work. (See
ARTISTS, page 16)

The Davidsonian [October 25, 1974]

TO SPEAK OF KANSAS

The hard-rock sounds of Kansas have won acclaim from Cashbox as “the up ’n’ coming act of 1974.” Kansas will
be in concert at 8 p.m. Friday in Johnston Gym.

Human Destruction sounding title, “Watership Down” is indeed about rabbits, complete with long ears and powder-puff posteriors. Yet, it is
not in the least miraculous in the way a fairy tale is. Once our disbelief is initially suspended, author Adams
takes few liberties with the credulity of his readers; he has evidently done a great deal of research on the
behavior of his subjects in the wild, and all or nearly all of the activities ascribed to them in the
novel may be explained in terms of that behavior. In other words, these rabbits are not “brave as lions,” nor
can they fly like ducks. They are as timid as the bunnies who live in the little patch of woods
behind my house, and must, like them, trust mostly to speed of foot for safety. But I’m getting ahead of
myself. A simple plot summary will help explain how believability is maintained. This novel tells the story of a group
of young male wild rabbits who leave the security of a comfortable, established warren in Berkshire to try and found
a new home of their own on the cold, high plateau known as Watership. Adams chronicles the adventures and discoveries
of their long journey, which include encounters with men, other rabbits, and their own natures. Yet, superficially at least, nothing
occurs in this story which could not conceivably happen to an actual group of wild rabbits, who have in fact
been known to wander homelessly after having been forced to leave warrens by territorial or population pressures.

Eric Clapton IN CONCERT

Below this surface, however, there exist “as many different tunnels of meaning as one cares to dig,” as a British
reviewer has already noted. An example of hidden meaning may be found in the reasons why the fictitious rabbits leave
their original warren. As the story opens, the smallest and weakestof the group, whose name is Fiver, has had a
prophetic dream of the destruction of the warren in which he and his brother, Hazel, are living. Together, they go
to the warren’s leaders, who are larger, older rabbits, in an attempt to convince them of imminent danger. They are
dismissed as troublemakers, and in the end can persuade only a few others, dissatisfied by poor living conditions or a
lack of personal prestige, to depart with them. Thus, most of Hazel and Fiver’s followers leave the first warren for
reasons of their own; the rabbit-seer’s concern for his fellow creatures becomes shared only when they learn, much later, that
all of his predictions have been most horribly borne out at the hands of men. Much more of a summary
would take a great deal of pleasure from future readers; a simple but intense desire to find out “what happens
next” makes this book quick reading. Suffice it to say that while this work speaks of sadness and its causes,
it does not end sadly; while it deals with the capacity of men for evil and stupidity, its existence as
a work of the human imagination bears out a belief that I have long cherished. That is, that there is
hope for mankind; there is reason to believe that Buckminster Fuller was right when he said that this book “lets
us know that the universe has something really mysteriously great going for humanity.”

The Joy Of Eating
By BOB ENWRIGHT and MARK YOW

(With profuse apologies to Woody Connette and those who revered his column, we now endeavor to fill this hallowed space
with a series of gastronomic misadventures designed to amuse, confuse, and inform. Bob and Mark)

Last Friday afternoon we were traveling along I-85 towards Greensboro ostensibly to see John Denver in concert that evening. Beautiful
downtown Davidson’s four o'clock mill rush hour and some heavy highway traffic had us running late. We arrived about 6:15,
picked up a friend from UNC-G, and went searching for some supper. (Greensboro’s branch of ARA Slater having been closed
for fall break, P.T.L.*) We soon discovered that Greensboro’s dining population far outnumbered its restaurants’ capacities. Concert time was rapidly
approaching, and we were awfully hungry. Finally, the resident Greensboroite suggested we stop and get something quick and eat after
the concert. “I know just the place,” she said, “the Yum-Yum.”

She proceeded to direct us to a small, dilapidated-looking structure juxtaposed to the UNC-G campus. While in search of a
parking space, she informed us that the Yum-Yum was now located across the street from its original location of 40-some
years, having been bumped by the construction of a new administration building. Upon our entrance, we beheld a sight not
dissimilar to our very own Hub. The major difference between the two was the Yum-Yum’s menu. It boasted of 27
flavors of homemade ice cream, one flavor of hot dog, and one flavor of Coca-Cola. After much deliberation, we decided
on hot dogs and Cokes all around. The clientele of the Yum-Yum, apart from the students, consists mainly of past
UNC-G graduates who still live in the Greensboro area. They seem to gather there and reminisce about the proverbial good
old days at the Women’s College of Greensboro. One particularly vocal ex-student was bemoaning the fact that her old dorm
now houses male students, or at least she thought they were. After all, it’s hard to tell at Greensboro.

The hot dogs, smothered in trimmings, were rather nondescript, and the Cokes—well, what can you say? But we still had
a little time, so we decided to sample the ice cream. Our waitress, upon learning that we were the pros
from Dover, er, gourmets from Davidson, informed us that their ice cream was homemade every morning. The stuff really puts
the Mooresville Creamery to shame. The pineapple and maple nut would draw five stars from the Michelin Guide, and our
companions informed us of the virtues of fudge royale and butter pecan. For 20¢ you receive almost a pint in
the cone. During the concert that evening, however, we tragically discovered that the Yum-Yum hot dog ranks slightly below the
* Praise the Lord.
