Great Britain Tour Prepares Soccer Players For Season
By FRANK STIEFEL
Staff Writer

After returning from a successful summer tour of England, the Davidson Soccer Team appears ready for the season. The team had a 4-4-4 record in England, scoring more goals than all of last year’s scoring output. The scoring was paced by Tom Tornee’s 12 goals and Joe Duncan’s 6. Besides the 12 games, the team also attended eight clinics.

“We played ten times better than anticipated,” said head coach Gary Stone. “I wasn’t sure we’d win a game over there,” he said.

“In our last game against Stirling International, we beat them 3-2, and they were Junior World Cup Champs in Munich,” Stone said.

Davidson opens its season today at Madison. Madison College boasts the sixth-ranked team in the country. “I think our toughest game of the season may be tonight,” said Stone. “Our team is much improved, but we're looking realistically at our schedule. We realize we could come out with the same record that we had last year,” Stone said. “I’d like to finish the season at 11-5 or better,” Stone indicated. “We play seven of the top eleven teams in the nation though. If we can beat two or more of those teams, we should be ranked in the top ten in the South, and possibly ranked 30 or 40 in the country,” Stone explained.

Stone is counting on Tom Blackwood, Charlie Slagle, and Joe Duncan to provide much of the team leadership. “Joe had a real good trip in England. He scored six goals and is just real strong now,” Stone said. “Joe’s a defender, and whenever you can get your fullback scoring as he did in England, it’s really going to help your offense. We’re trying to play a real fluid position. We try to get him roaming all over the field,” said Stone. “We allow him to take any shot he can, of course, because he’s got such a strong shot. Joe’s got the power to make the 30 or 40-yard shot, and this just gives us a lot more depth in our offense,” he explained.

Stone also expressed hopes that fewer goals would be scored on the Wildcats this year. “Our defense has improved 100 percent with a year’s experience,” Stone said. “If we can keep working hard, stay away from injuries, and things work out for us, I think we’ll have a real good season,” Stone concluded.

Monday the booters will host Pfeiffer for a 4 p.m. match. Thursday they will go to the Campbell Classic. Home games will be played on the soccer field at 4 p.m. except Emory, which will be played at 10 a.m.

Captain America, Young Buck, and The Beachball

Davidson Quiz Spices

This started out funny, but then Beachball and Y.B. realized they were weary of night-time romping last Tuesday; so we decided to write a short piece to fill up a teenie space in Tanner’s paper, i.e., THE DAVIDSON... Oh yes, C.A. usually clogs the literary tradition with several C.A.-ish quips in this column, but last time we saw him, he was out walking the streets with the Sid Witz, infamous Hebrew about town. I guess that beats making strategic advances (so to speak) on hall counselors.

Now for you sibling sacrifices, i.e., fresh frosh, who have not recognized any of the key personalities in the preceding paragraph, don’t fret none, cause this column is regarded as a joke. During the year we will run this space with a report of intramural athletic events, spiced with abnormal social actions. We were going to talk about England, but as the newly deflated Beach Ball so aptly put it, “Ain’t no waaayyy, Y.B.” This means the bombing of Britain will take place next...

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 - 7. — Wed. 9 - 12, — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies...

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P. O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and SecretaryWeek, same space on the same recycled toilet paper, if they in charge decide to ignore the fact that this column truly exists in the negative zone. But really people, you too, Willy Terry, this column will deal with the human aspects of IMAC; that all-powerful intra-athletic operation led by runt-of-the-month winner for September, Bryan “I am the president” Andrews.

The Davidsonian, September 13, 1974

Charlie Slagle leaps to block a shot.

IMAC Slag

From time to time we like to initiate interest in our column (it never works), by asking dumb-ass questions; like the ones coming up below. This is a contest quiz much like that zoo the hall counselors called the people game. Nice job, Connors, you turkey. So pay attention, freshmen, cause you’re the only eligible entrees.

Who was Wasted? (bless his soul)
Who is Krsna? (power of the Cast)
Who put the third “T” in Watts? (you can eat him at a wimpy bar)
What are SPE’s? (only four-letter words will do)
Who is Dean of Dogs? (last name not Stone)
Who is Ralph Quackenbush? (easy)
Who is the Queen of Verona? (Big E)
What is beached whale? (Archbishop Malloy)
Who is the wandering Jew? (WDAV)
What was the Wimpire? (Derived by Wimpettes)
BONUS: What is What-a-Lynn’s last name? (If you find out, let us know.)

Send all entries to Duke 222 care of C.A. and Y.B. or the Beach Ball. First come, first win. First prize: man, you already got your prize if you know the answer to that last question. Second prize: A free visit to Dr. Marshall to cure the first prize. Third prize: 12 Grim Baker donuts and the leading laxative of your choice. May the sun always shine on your private places. Ta-da.

Martin (Continued from page 6)

If you think you're not eating as much sugar as you should, think again. Much of our sugar intake is hidden in foods like snacks and soda pop, cakes and candy, desserts and cereals, and even in sauces and frozen vegetables. Actually, the best you could do is to completely stop with sugar, but that's a pretty tall order. Sugar rots your teeth. Tooth decay afflicts 98% of Americans. A dental bill can hurt even more than sugar. Sugar can make you fat. When you eat sugar it’s easy to take in more calories than you need because sugar is nothing but calories. And you only need a little sugar to get a lot of calories. Sugar may affect your heart. Recent studies suggest a relationship between high sugar intake and heart disease. Some doctors believe that eating too much sugar could be as harmful to your heart as excess fat.

A public interest message brought to you by the health department.

As our view of that sweet stuff, America has turned into a nation of sugar addicts. In 1972 we consumed an average of 126 pounds of caloric sweeteners per person. More than two pounds a week for each and every one of us. Enough sugar to cause serious danger to your teeth, general health, and possibly even your heart.

He and Mary and three daughters live out on Crescent Road, in a house he built, but that’s another story. His cross-country team is in “tall cotton,” too, with last year’s winning season a stark contrast to the lean years that continued until as recently as your freshman year. We’re gonna’ beat some people this fall. But I doubt if we'll beat Coach. You know, he still stays in shape and runs with us, and we like to say that Sterling is the only coach in the country who can outrun his team. But the heck of it is, it’s true. He’s still our number one, ten paces in front of Stinky, and out of sight in the front.