The Davidsonian §=8=March 29, 1974

Three Scotsmen In Jamaica
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Assistant Managing Editor

“What in the name of fortune induced you to choose a place like this for a school?” said an old
Scotsman as he looked at the area proposed by Lewis Davidson for the groundbreaking of Knox College. “It’s all rockstone
and brush!” The Scotsman’s incredulity is a normal reaction to the Reverend Davidson, a man who makes things work where
they apparently cannot. Davidson answered the Scotsman and others with less foresight and faith than he by saying: “There was
a sense of destiny about the place and a job to be done. That was the reason, there was a
job to be done!”

Davidson, who will speak here on Tuesday, April 2, was educated in Scotland at the University of Edinburgh, as a
contemporary of Warner Hall, chairman of the Davidson College Board of Trustees. Once out of school, Davidson accepted the headmastership
at Wolmer’s Boy’s School in Kingston, Jamaica. This school is the oldest school in the West Indies, founded in 1725.

“I was given a list of clothes I would require for my journey to and life at Wolmer’s. It included
24 dress shirts, two sets of evening clothes, and one of tails. This in a way suggested the stuffed-shirt atmosphere
of the education to which I was going,” said Davidson. “I stayed there for a few years and then I
felt that I had to do something a little more practical and to work on closer terms with the Jamaican
friends that I had made and so I offered myself as a missionary of the Church of Scotland and was
very glad when they gave me a chance to serve.”

After a series of government loans sent Davidson to two struggling schools, he returned to the job he really wanted
to do. “I wanted to find out how Jamaicans lived, to learn about their home life, their homes, and staying
there, getting to know folklore, the songs, the dances, and particularly to get to know them.”

In 1945, Davidson, acting on faith, recommended in a report to the Presbyterian Church in Jamaica that the Church should
build an education center in rural Jamaica. In 1946, The Church of Scotland recognized a request from the Synod of
Jamaica for a rural education center and appointed Davidson as its first principal. Davidson was thankful for the appointment but
he said, “As happens with so many missionaries, I was given the chance, but no money.”

Starting with $1000 contributed by Presbyterian pastors in Jamaica, Davidson began to buy land in Spaulding’s county, Jamaica. He describes
it as, “land in the mountains of Jamaica 3000 feet up in a glorious climate where the sun shines without
the cruel heat of the sun.” Only birds flew and goats ate untethered cropped bitter grass. Because of the remoteness
of the hill, it was extremely difficult to bring in the necessary materials.

Davidson said, “Road building had to be job number one; for nothing that wouldn’t hold on the back of a
donkey could get up that hill. Dave built the road, a good one that has taken the subsequent years of
pounding very well. It was not paved in the beginning, and much of the hill remained treacherous. You could even
without trying, skid from top to bottom on wet days. Ladies, male and female, preferred to stay home on days
when the red dirt shone like cardinal.”

Davidson continued, “As we began building our school, we found that as we built another dormitory. This opened my eyes
to the possibilities of training people to work, to learn, to support themselves. There were many experiments in this field.
I had been to Cadbury’s in England and had seen many young women, white-clad, making candies. Why not in Jamaica?
They could keep themselves pure, and they look not for a boyfriend but for a man who will marry them.”

Davidson said that his group could manufacture as much as 300 pounds a week, but it got to the point
where “We could do no more on charcoal pots. It was at that point that my faith faltered, and stunned
as it were, by the enormity of the task, I gave up. I keep that little candy shop under the
girl’s hostel still to remind me to never give up again.”

With the failure of the candy shop went the school’s income and the jobs it provided. It was then that
another very wonderful thing happened. Dan Davidson, of the Covenant Presbyterian in Charlotte, sent Knox a small printing machine. Davidson
vowed not to give up on the new source of money and work, although he knew very little about the
printing trade.a man miraculous in many ways, one of them being that he is not afraid of learning anything. He
set about to learn the printing trade and to solicit Lewis Davidson Founds Knox College polish.” With the new road,
building began. Davidson says about this portion of the project, “The Israelites had to make bricks without straw, we had
to without water.” Indeed, the nearest water was five miles away. A water hole was dug, but it was a
slow process in the solid rock of Spaulding’s Hill. “For months we waited for rain to fall on our catchment.
It was one of the happiest days in my life when the rain came on the day we finished the
guttering,” said Davidson. Through all the difficulties, the building went on as long as there was money. It came in
marvellous ways. Mrs. Duthie Webster, a woman from Aberdeenshire, Scotland gave $10,000. One old lady in the area of Jamaica
where we have the sugar, the fruits, and the chocolate? And I thought of our own Jamaican girls with so
few opportunities. “The idea was that by using machines and technological know-how dedicated to the cause of Christ we can
enable people to stand on their own feet,” Davidson continued. “I have seen for a long time the spectacle, for
instance, of our girls who are under tremendous pressure from the men folks to produce their babies at 13 or
14 years of age. I have found that girls, when they got training and keep themselves neat and tidy and
work with dignity, when they receive an adequate reward for their labors, are not going to throw themselves help in
any way they could in order to make the new enterprise work.” Said Davidson: “We needed service such as the
man out of Chicago who owned his own linotype setting business and as a good Presbyterian gave up six months
of his life to come down and teach our boys to do linotype work.” Knox Educational Services, which began with
the gift of a printing machine, is now self-supportive and will soon reach a level of earnings and savings that
“is equivalent to an endowment of a quarter of a million dollars,” according to Davidson. With the money and the
renewed faith, the school continued and continues today with an enrollment of nearly 500 truly international students. Said Davidson, “We
have a fine school of young people, many of whom are French from Haiti, Spanish-speaking from Cuba and Venezuela; young
Americans from the South all the way north through New York; Danes and Dutch from the oil fields in Aruba.
Alongside our development of the schools for children five to eight, we have a junior school for children eight to
11 and what you would call a high school for 11 to 18. The academic standards are very high and
many of our students go to universities and schools of technology abroad.” Davidson is no longer principal at Knox, but
has assumed the position of Director of the Knox Development Fund. It is his goal now, as it has been,
to help his friends, the Jamaican people. Knox College offers a good academic program with most of the teachers being
native Jamaicans. It is a consequence of their upbringing in a basically underdeveloped country, however, that dictates that these teachers
teach in the humanities. Few qualified teachers of science and mathematics exist in rural Jamaica. Davidson would like to work
out a program for Davidson College students to teach some basic mathematics and work ostensibly with the technological advancement of
the area of Spaulding’s Hill. The Davidson student would design his own textbook because few exist in the department of
the sciences. This would necessitate some library research. Also requiring some research is the general development project for Knox. The
roofing, aluminum on wood, that they now use is expensive. A new and less expensive roof is needed at the
school and in Jamaica. There is interest in methane technology and plans are needed to build a methane generator. These
are things that students could do. There is a problem, however, now with housing any interested students who might be
willing to teach and/or research in Jamaica. For this need, Davidson College is trying to raise $3000 to be used
in building dormitories. Davidson will be here next week and will speak at DCPC Tuesday at 7 p.m. The rest
of his time will be spent with interested groups. These meetings are being organized by Director of Career/Service Randall R.
Kincaid. Davidson will speak with volunteers after his talk on Tuesday. Davidson has worked his ministry almost entirely in a
non-parish situation. He has seen a human need in Jamaica and answered it. Rush Otey has suggested that his work
is “The Word becoming.”
