Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

MIKE TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHIL STIKES, Business Manager

JUNE 25, 1974

The Domino Theory

The present situation here at Davidson regarding the placement of housing, Union, and Library facilities for next year is not unlike a game of dominos. Because the college is getting only one new building next year and yet it is planning up to four major facility relocations, it’s best to realize now that problems with one facility will undoubtedly create other problems and delays all down the line—the domino effect.

As of the fall of 1973, work on the E.H. Little Library had gone unexpectedly well. Good weather prevailed and construction was ahead of schedule. Unfortunately, many felt that this pace would continue and planned for occupancy of the building on that assumption. It was hoped that the structure could be completed by the Spring of 1974, leaving the entire summer to renovate the Grey Library for use as the Student Union in the fall. Now, however, it seems that construction problems and bad weather have pushed the building 50 days behind schedule. And of course, this means that work on the Grey Library might not begin until August. Director of Physical Plant Grover Meetze has said that the renovation work will take six months and Davidson College could possibly be without a new Union until early 1975.

This is unfortunate, but more importantly, it points to another sticky problem, the housing shortage as it relates to coeducation. When the trustees approved the principle of coeducation, the EPC was given the task of devising a plan to implement it. The scheme finally agreed upon was one that would bring the coed enrollment to 500 by 1981, leaving the male enrollment at 1000. In its report, the EPC called for a gradual increase in the number of women students over a period of nine years. Speaking specifically of the fall of 1974, it called for the admission of up to 75 freshwomen, plus up to 35 additional upperclasswomen transfer students. In short, assuming that the numbers of graduating seniors in the spring of 1974 and incoming freshmen that fall are roughly equal, Davidson could expect its total enrollment to increase by as much as 110 in the fall of 1974. But the obvious question is, “where are we going to house them?”

Davidson has no additional housing facilities planned for readiness by the fall, so work has already begun to decide where in the present facilities these additional students can live. One suggestion has been Jackson Court; another is the basement of Belk Dormitory, though possibly both will be needed. It has been suggested that the college bookstore and the ROTC department might be relocated so that this freed space in the Belk basement can be remodeled for student living quarters. However, the bookstore was earmarked for the Grey Union which won’t be ready. And where would ROTC go?

Another angle of the problem focuses on the present Union building, the former Guest House. Some have said that the ROTC department should be given that building if they are to be evicted from Belk. But again, how can they move into the Guest House building if the Union is still there, being unable to move into the Grey Library because the Little Library was so late in completion?

Clearly then, there is the need for positive suggestions and decisions. We feel that plans regarding these problems should be formulated immediately and endorse the following principles that the decisions should observe:

1) Under no circumstances should the Student Union be deprived of its present facilities in the Guest House until renovations of the Grey Library have been completed.
2) That the college should not resort to placing more than two students to a room in an effort to provide housing for all.
3) That if space is available in the basement of the new Little Library, then it in some way be utilized.

Specifically, we feel that space can be found in the basement of Little Library to accommodate the bookstore in the fall of 1974 (and possibly ROTC as well) and that the college pursue this option before any other. The basement of the Little Library is large enough to accommodate the bookstore and the ROTC people. Once the Grey Union is completed, the bookstore could go in there and ROTC could go to the Guest House. (Other possibilities for the bookstore are Chambers basement and Richardson Dorm basement).

It’s an interesting game of dominos, one that at best, with prompt and careful planning, might result in adequate temporary placement of all facilities and at worst, could...mean three students to a room in one of the present dorms, or a Union scattered across the campus if the bookstore and ROTC were forced to occupy the Guest House six months before the completion of the Grey Union.

Bo Phillips Leadership Called For To Meet Governance Problems On Campus

ED NOTE: Bo Phillips, past president of the SGA and an active member of the National Student Association, gives his insights into the role of the Student Government Association at Davidson and governance on campuses across the country in the '70s.

This annual column has usually offered the outgoing SGA president an opportunity to review his term in office, but at the risk of breaking a hallowed tradition, I wish to focus on the future rather than the past. Student government at Davidson is in the process of rapid change, and the challenges of the next few years will be numerous. I offer these thoughts as one who has been concerned with the national student movement as well as student government on this campus.

The marches of the '60s and the activism characteristic of recent years have now disappeared on campuses as students concern themselves more with securing a respectable job. In the process, student governments have found themselves without the glamorous issues which attracted so many capable workers in the late sixties. In 1974, most student governments across the country are composed of a small group of activists who rarely represent the majority of their constituency; legitimacy and viability are problems facing most SGAs in the country, particularly at the large universities. Student governments must redirect their main sources of power towards dealing with issues which affect their academic community, responding more to the needs of their fellow students.

The first step towards this new direction must be a change in the campus governance. At Davidson, we have made encouraging progress in this area, and the new campus constitution should be reported out of committee in late spring. Structural changes serve to increase official student input and facilitate policy changes in educational policy and student conduct regulations. Furthermore, the opportunity for different campus constituencies to settle their quarrels in a constructive fashion is offered in well-integrated policy-making groups.

The other major step which should be made as student governments deal more actively with campus issues concerns reorganizations of student government. We can no longer afford to have the SGA Senate serve primarily as a group which meets once a week to hear reports of what a few dedicated senators have tried to accomplish. At Davidson, there needs to be an increase in cooperation among campus organizations, perhaps through a council composed of the SGA officers, representatives from the Union and Social Council, etc. I would recommend that the SGA Senate elect their own chairperson, while the SGA president concentrates on his or her role as the diplomatic representative to the faculty, administration, and trustees.

There should be a concerted effort on the part of the SGA leaders to maintain closer contact with the student body, and this can be most effectively accomplished by means of offering student services, such as the used-book store, advisory councils, and self-scheduled exams. The SGA should also expand its role as a source of information for students.

One final recommendation needs to be made, particularly in view of Davidson’s rather unique status as a small college isolated from the larger institutions of higher education. It is important that the student governments at different schools maintain frequent contact with one another. One school may have already solved a problem that another is facing. Fresh ideas and new perspectives are acquired through inter-school contacts. More importantly, communication between schools increases a sense of student solidarity -- an awareness that students have unique problems which could be more successfully approached through a unified effort.

Student government, whether at Davidson or at a large university, is not a game or a joke. To treat it as such is to abdicate one’s responsibility to participate in the decisions which affect our lives. Student governments can only provide limited functions since rapid turnover and campus political forces on campus weaken the students’ hand. Nevertheless, students will be playing a more important role in the decisions on campuses across the country. The confrontations of the late '60s have given way to cooperation in many instances, and it will be necessary to have strong student leadership and unity during the '70s.

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters on any subject from our readers. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length and to make corrections in spelling and grammar. All letters must be signed.