(Twelve, December 13, 1974)

Wildcats Overcome Ohio State

UP, UP AND A-JAY

Grapplers Excel in Tourney
In Hard-fought Contests

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

Wrestlers made the trip to Hotchkiss and Brian Jacobs. Jacobs placed second while Hotchkiss nabbed the 4th place spot. Glenn
Ballard lost in the first round to the eventual champion of the 134 lb. weight class. It was a close
match, with Ballard being on the short end of an 8-4 score.

Captain Bob Jacobs lost a close decision in the 142 lb. weight class finals, and he had to settle for
2nd place. Scandling won a narrow 4-2 decision over his opponent from Elon in the finals of the 150 lb.
class, to bring home the only first place trophy.

Ralph Holloway and Bob

By JEFF MORROW
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats point losses in the 158 lb. division. Holloway fought his way back to take the 4th place
spot. Bob Bennett wrestled 177 for the Wildcats and he won (See GRAPPLERS, page 16)

PIZZA + LASAGNE + RAVIOLI

VEAL PARMIGIANA
CHOW WINGS + BEERS

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans

Only 6 miles north.

scorers with 26 points before fouling out with 7:34 in the game.

The Wildcats continued to laden themselves with turnovers. This, combined with an OSU shooting spree, contributed to Ohio State’s domination
of the game in the first half. The buzzer saw Ohio leave the court with a 48-35 advantage.

The early part of the second half saw the Wildcats’ efforts to catch up repeatedly frustrated. Davidson pulled to within
7 points, 53-46 with 15:24 remaining, only to fall to a 15 point disadvantage two minutes later.

Head Coach Bo Brickels praised highly the attitude of his players at that point. “The character of our people is
all-important. No one quit when we kept getting behind. Instead of giving up, the team worked harder and went on
to win. I can’t emphasize the importance of this type of spirit,” Brickels stated.

Jay Powell, Greg Dunn, and Larry Horowitz sparked the Wildcat rampage that overcame the point difference. In the last 13
minutes, Davidson outscored OSU 41-18. Offensively the Wildcats clicked, and Ohio St. assumed the role of being foul-prone.

Dunn and Horowitz played steady, aggressive ball while Powell went on a scoring spree that saw him make 16 of
his 20 points. In less than a minute, a 10 point OSU advantage was cut to one, 71-70, and soon
Horowitz put the Cats on top, 74-73. Powell gave Davidson the lead for good, 76-74, with 4:52 left in the
game. Ohio St. tied the game once and pulled to within one another time, but Powell iced the game on
a three-point play, and the Wildcats hung on to win, 88-80.

Dunn connected for 22 points, and Horowitz, with 25 points, was voted Southern Conference Player of the Week. The primary
statistical difference was in the free-throw figures. Davidson hit on 26 of 32 trips to the line; OSU made 12
of 19.

Brickels had praise for more than just his team, “I thought our students were super. We had a huge turnout,
higher than any last year, and this is a large factor in basketball,” he said.

Brickels indicated that the Wildcat game plans are still in a state of flux. “We were a little tight against
Wofford. We didn’t move the ball enough on offense to get the good shots. So, now we’ll concentrate on a
tight defense; we are going to get tougher, get more tense,” Brickels promised.

170 N. Main
Nat E. Smith

Brake Safety Inspection

10% off on all parts to Davidson Students (w/ I.D.)

ARMY-NAVY STORE

Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans

We are your COMPLETE Service Center

Mooresville, N.C.
Ph. 664-5118

372 N. Main
663-2824

Mooresville
