Love Auditorium
Morrison Room
Martin Room
Perkins Auditorium
Wachovia Bank & Trust

Film: "Maltese Falcon"
Film: "The War Games"
Lecture: Jason McManus
Love Auditorium
Perkins Auditorium

Tuesday, April 23
10 a.m. Lecture: Raymond Moore: "International Politics"
Film: "Streetcar Named Desire"

Thursday, April 25
All day Carnival Rides
3 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: "Romeo & Juliet"
Catholic Mass
Piedmont Lecture: Lewis Mayhew

Friday, April 26
SPRING FROLICS
All day Carnival Rides
8 p.m. Concert: McKenzie Spring
8:15 p.m. Drama Workshop: "Dracula"
10 p.m. Movie Orgy

Saturday, April 27
All day Carnival Rides
10:45 a.m. Parade
2 p.m. Jello Fight Belk Quad
8 p.m. Concert: Love Auditorium
Edmunds & Curley and Herby Mann Entertainers
Chamber's Nightclub
Movie Orgy Morrison Room
Drama Workshop: Hodson Hall "Dracula"

Poll (Continued from page 1)
Most students favor the granting of P.E. credit for participation in intramural and club sports. A majority would also support
the offering of a seminar in "The Psychology of Sport" for P.E. credit.

Phi Hall
7:30 p.m. Love Auditorium
Parking Lot
Love Auditorium
7 p.m. Phi Hall
8 p.m. Morrison Room
Parking Lot
Love Auditorium
Hodson Hall
Morrison Room
Parking Lot
Town
10 p.m. 10 p.m.
11 p.m. & 1 a.m.

The section on night exams showed most students in favor of them and 304 students indicated that they would be
willing to help administer them if they were allowed.

As far as action by the Senate in these areas is concerned, Butner said that the next step will be
the preparation of reports and recommendations to the college administration by the involved Senate ad hoc committees. While the purpose
of the referendum is primarily informational, the Senate is expected to ratify these reports and pass them on to the
administration later this spring.

DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION
Authorized Dealer
THE SHOP
Electronics Unlimited
173 N. Main St.
663-4513 Mooresville, N.C.
Mon. - Fri. 9 - 5:30

LOOK AT THIS!
It's new. It's original. The hottest sticker on the continent. KEEP ON STICKIN'.
THE HUB

OPEN: Letter To The Editor

Baseball Fans Register Protests For Negligent, Cavalier Treatment

To the Editor:
This is a letter written to protest the cavalier manner to which Davidson baseball has been subjected throughout this current
baseball season. Coverage by THE DAVIDSONIAN has been inconsistent and uninformed at best and downright insulting at its worst. A
case in point is the April 12 edition of THE DAVIDSONIAN. The baseball team, though it had had a rough
season to that point, had just won two very satisfying ballgames against Southern Conference rivals Furman and Catawba before dropping
a controversial game to Appalachian State. The team expected to see some kind...of write-up on the games, particularly the exciting,
extra-inning win over Furman, in which Davidson came from behind three times. However, the only thing remotely related to baseball
was a picture of a game which took place three and a half weeks before. Not only THE DAVIDSONIAN, but
the Sports Information department and the Alumni office have consistently denigrated Davidson baseball through benign neglect. It was six weeks
after the season started before the team brochures were issued by the Sports Information department. Scores of games are rarely
called in by the department, resulting in little if any publicity for the team. Perhaps the most galling incident of
all occurred in the scheduling for Alumni Weekend. There has been scheduled an Alumni-Varsity basketball game. This cannot fail to
lure people away from going to the baseball team’s scheduled doubleheader with Southern Conference opponent Richmond that same day (April
20). Why not schedule an “Old-Timer’s Baseball Game” instead? This is baseball season everywhere else. For too long, Davidson baseball
has had to remain in the shadows as far as the Athletic Department and Sports Information department are concerned. Davidson
may lose baseball games now and then; but since when has overwhelming success been a pre-requisite for recognition? Davidson's baseball
players suffer the same pains as any other athlete. Should they be forced to also suffer anonymity?

Peter S. Celentano '74
Mitch Stone '75
Alan Alig '77
Frank Folger '74
Davidson College

HATTIE'S RESTAURANT
Now Open For Lunch
Featuring N.Y. Delicatessen

FOR:
Italian Style Submarines
As well as a selection of Great Hard Roll & Rye Stacked Sandwiches
You Cannot Find A Better Sandwich Value In This Area
CHECK US OUT

CORRESPONDENCE

Behind The Cue Ball

If you like pool you will love this course. It will work miracles for you. It is designed to teach
you how to become an expert at this fascinating game. It will improve your game 200% or more. This course
is designed for the beginner and the experienced players. It’s designed for those of you who have a pool table
and those who don’t. The course is in eight (8) sessions all with illustrations and easy to follow instructions. The
eight (8) sessions are selecting your cue, proper stance, stroke, straight in's, angles, rail shots, bank shots, how to use
english, drawing a ball, how to break, patience, sportsmanship and much much more. To my knowledge there has never been
a complete course offered in this ever-growing fascinating game. The complete course is yours for only $24.95.

Mail to:
BEHIND THE CUE BALL
Post Office Box 10308
Dallas, Texas 75207

[ ] Please send me ___ copies of BEHIND THE CUE BALL at $24.95 each, I enclose check or money
order.
[ ] Please send me ___ copies of BEHIND THE CUE BALL at $24.95 each. I am interested in being
a distributor in the area. Please indicate the city, town, county or state. A representative of BEHIND THE CUE BALL
will contact you within 15 days after we receive your order to explain how you as a distributor can increase
your income and have fun while doing it, with no investment except for the course you purchase.

First Union National.
