The Davidsonian
April 26, 1974
Eleven

Open Doors Aid Softball Research
By CAPTAIN AMERICA and BUCKY

After weekly searching, C.A. and Y.B. have finally found the IMAC scores, believe it or not. We kidnapped Chip Stone’s
secretary and Chip was forced to tell Bowie Kuhn to give the scores. The drop point was the back porch
of Terry Holland's house where a greasy-looking detective named Callahan gave the scores to Ganja, the wonderdog, who ran lickity
split.

Gozinya Field Day

This week, a spokesman for the notorious Gozinyas, a group of drunken senior misfits, announced the continuing plans for a
gala campus-wide party on Sunday, May 5 at the Gozinya Palace on 553 North Main Street from 2 p.m. to
sunset. Because of the generous contributions from several groups, including the Union and the Dean of Students Office, there will
be no charge for any who wish to attend. Students, faculty, and administration are all encouraged to come. (Vice President
for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan was rumored to have said, “I wouldn't mind going myself.”)

Activities will include volleyball, croquet, a hotdog roast, enormous quantities of brew concoction (there will be about 5 kegs of
beer), and other “get it on” events. Other possible attractions include Bob “MeMe” Whaling’s new motorcycle, and Richard “Micro Boy”
preparing corn and red eye for his numerous admirers.

... sidelines (Continued from page 9)

Unfortunately, that is not what puts winning numbers on a scoreboard. In order to qualify his claim, Scandling refers to
the wrestling team’s performances over the past few seasons. Now, I am not going to quibble with him about his
first two seasons, but his last two have not produced much as far as team results are concerned. He then
claims that scheduling is the answer. But if you want to win and have to schedule high school teams to
do it, I do not think you accomplish anything. His argument seems to boil down to this: scholarships imply expectations
of winning; he (and I assume the wrestling program) does not want this pressure; therefore, keep scholarships out of Davidson
intercollegiate athletics. Q.E.D.

My answer, then, would be to first, find out just which coaches want scholarships and give them some. Next, figure
out why the coaches who do not want scholarships feel this way. If it is because they are scared of
the expectations that would be upon them, then get someone who is not afraid. It seems quite obvious to most
people that scholarships are a necessity to keep up with the intercollegiate athletic race. If we fail to meet this
need, then we are going to suffer heavily in the coming years in places where we least expected to encounter
problems.

Scandling made the point that “although everything seems to be working against us, I still feel that we (the wrestling
team) can compete respectably.” I guess he and I must have a discrepancy as to our definitions of respectable. Don’t
get me wrong. I am not against wrestling. I think they should get the same benefits as other sports. I
just feel that scholarships would certainly be an asset to them also. For those who just want to have fun,
we have club sports and intramurals. So let’s not take the soul of athletic competition out of intercollegiate athletics at
Davidson.

Oh, One More Thing...

This last note is to correct Scandling’s mistaken impression about the functions of the Wildcat Club. According to Executive Director
Sandy Carnegie, the organization only raises the money that will be used in the athletic program. The coaches, administration, and
trustees decide how the money is spent.will be allowed! Split back to Duke 222 and dropped them off. He was
rewarded with a jar of peanut butter. Or would you believe the IMAC office door was unlocked? In the first
round of tournament action, 4th East and Delt II both forfeited themselves into oblivion. How anyone can forfeit a tourney
game we don’t know, however, they did. In live action, the fighting Beavers of 4th floor Richardson decimated KA2 by
an unknown score. (The goofy umpire didn’t write down the score.) Anyhow, we're waiting for the Beavers to split a
doubleheader one of these days. Also in the first round, Richardson II beat PAX 13-12 in an extra inning affair
(sounds like a soap opera). The Gozinyas whipped Vatican II 4-2 and were led by Richard “Microman” Hendrix and Jim
Prince. The surprising ATO’s snuck past SAE I 4-1 in a defensive battle. The ATO’s spring training in Tijuana must
have paid off. John Stanfield and pitcher Brad Tipler led the way for the battling zeroes. The first round’s big
upset was the defending champion Kerwood Derbies’ surprise victory over I Felta Thigh. The 6-3 upset was led by Billy
(Graig Nettles) Lynn's two homers and Doug Ey’s circuit clout. The 3M Corporation shut out Cannon IV 10-0 while Stick
and the Sticklettes ended CLAP’s Cinderella dreams with a 13-0 thrashing. Cornelius Lint And made the fatal error of returning
to earth to play in the playoffs. They should have stayed in orbit, folks. C-V stuck their co-occupants in C-I
with an early departure in the tourney by nipping the boys from below 10-8. KA#1 showed why baseball’s considered a
southern type sport as they continued to shine, beating the Cannoners 10-zip. Powerful Arcadia turned back the Derbies 8-4 behind
shortstop Juan “nothing gets by or through” Sanchez and catcher Andy “try to steal on me and I'll beat your
ass” Dorr. Also in the Quarters are the MG's, Beaver, Gozinyas, Arcadia, Q-12, PDT#1, and 3M Corp. C.A. & Y.B.
are going to go with Q-12 to take it all with maybe some competition from Arcadia or the Delts. Anyhow,
we would like to congratulate Larry Hardaway for being elected new D.C. “dog catcher.” Also, we'd like to welcome “the
Circus” to the basement of the Union; although it is young, it sucks too. Where is “the Jungle,” “the Gods,”
and the darned Foosball table? So as Spring Frolics approach, be sure to get your float ready, and yourself ready
too. And you freshmen (you too Y.B.), remember that the Humes department has conveniently scheduled their term paper due next
Monday after this calm weekend. Such foresight. As C.A. & Y.B. throw caution to the winds, we say two more
weeks to go and then ...summer school. Hoo Boy!

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7 - Wed. 9-12. — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N.C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.
Jewelry you may qualify.

United States Air Force
TSgt. Roger Church
332-3046

FREE FLYING LESSONS PLUS $9,800 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR
And that's only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that
will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial flying career... or impressive executive credentials to
go with the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You'll earn from $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits
including 30 days paid vacation annually, free worldwide air travel, medical care, and much more. If you're between 20½ and
26½, a senior or graduate student,
