Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Probed October 18, 1974

SGA Senators Announce Goals, Fill Faculty Committee Spots

By MARK GERGEN - Staff Writer

The SGA Senate met Tuesday night in a three-hour session during which it articulated its objectives for the remainder of the term and appointed students to fill positions on six faculty committees. Over 50 goals were announced by the chairmen of the senate’s committees. Students were appointed to fill positions on six faculty committees. Wayne Gulledge and John Munce were appointed to the Extended Studies Committee. Ruth Hotchkiss was placed on the Bookstore Committee. Ruth Murphy and Gus Succop were appointed to the Allocations Activities Committee. Scott Timmon and Bruce Maloy were appointed to the Pre-Law Committee from a field of six nominees. There were 12 nominees for two positions on the Athletics and Physical Education Committee. Brad Jenny and Bob Lautensack finally were selected after three ballots. There were 10 nominees for two positions on the Religious Policy and Program Committee. Jay Silver and Densen Hardgrave were finally appointed after three ballots. Attempts to limit discussion on the appointments proved to be fruitless as the senate debated the nominees’ qualifications and positions. Discussion on the Athletics and Physical Education Committee nominees was centered on the desirability of physical education requirements. Only one nominee expressed the belief that they should be eliminated entirely, while the others supported the physical education requirement.

Hardgrove expressed his disagreement with the policy of Christian activity being a requirement to receive tenure at Davidson, while Silver said that at present he supports it.

Announced goals of the Senate’s standing committees include investigations of early registration, a college application for a beer license, and the accessibility of student records. Among the major goals of the Ad Hoc Committees are monitoring action on community housing and monitoring religious policy.

By ANDREW LAMAS - Senior News Editor

Professor of Economics Robert Avinger has been named the new chairman of the Pre-Law Committee. Under Avinger, reorganization of the advisory committee is already underway. “Professors Kincaid and Young and I will attend a pre-law advisor’s conference at Vanderbilt University on Friday,” remarked Avinger. Also attending the conference will be officials of the Educational Testing Service (which administers the LSAT), admissions officers of various law schools, and other pre-law advisors. “Our dialogue with the people from ETS and other colleges will acquaint us with alternative systems of pre-law advising and help us pinpoint some shortcomings that we have,” commented Avinger.

Under the direction of Professor of Economics Randall R. Kincaid, the Pre-Law Committee is attempting to assemble profile sheets of the Class of ’74 in order to aid counseling efforts. “We are working diligently to get a fix on last year’s law school applicants. In obtaining each student’s G.P.A., LSAT score, and a list of the schools at which he/she was accepted and rejected, we can better assess our students’ chances for admittance to various law schools,” explained Avinger.

On Sept. 25, the Pre-Law Committee held a question and answer meeting for all pre-law students. At the meeting, Avinger explained the purpose of having a pre-law committee. “Our main duty is to provide information to interested students about law schools and the admissions process,” he said. “We want to help interested and qualified pre-law students at various stages of acceptance.”

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.SUCCOP

Contributors this week: Glenn Operations Manager: BILL ELLETT Assistant Managing Editors: MATTHEW COVINGTON, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE Senior News Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, BRUCE CORSER, GORDON WIDENHOUSE Cartoonists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL, Stanfield, Frank Stiefel, and Bob Wetzel. Published weekly, Revital: ss shots at Dailies Gallbdartarine ths’ sxhoea sail. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVID- Ballard, Mark Gergen, Steve Johnson, Bill Kennon, Joe McMillan, Mark Menchel, Bob Milks, Charlie Slagle, John Staff Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH Assistant Business Manager: DAVID TRADER Contributing Editors: JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, VINCE RABIL Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK Photo Editor: LEON VENABLE Typist: CAMILLE CATHEY, SONIA Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

American Film Theatre

The American Film Theatre will show the following five films this year at the Plaza Theatre in Charlotte: Jacques Brel Is Alive and Well and Living in Paris (Jan. 27, 28), In Celebration (Feb. 24, 25), The Maids (March 17, 18), The Man In The Glass Booth (April 21, 22), and Galileo (May 19, 20). Anyone interested in reduced price matinee tickets for this series may sign up at the Union Desk before Thursday, October 31. The cost of the series is $10.00, payable at the time of signing up. There will be no seminar such as the one last year on the American Film Theatre.

We hope to build upon the good work of past Pre-Law Committees. The Pre-Law Committee plans to work with students not only in an advisory capacity but also by arranging forums where students can meet practicing lawyers, law school students, and law school officials. “We want the pre-law student to become knowledgeable about the legal profession as well as law schools’ curricula and admissions standards,” stated Avinger. The committee also aims to provide its advisees with information concerning occupations other than law. “A student should be aware of all of the career opportunities that are available to him. Careers in management and public administration are examples of two careers that have interested some of my advisees,” remarked Avinger.

Wattage Discussed (Continued from page 1)

HIGH-POWER STATION, supporting. AND IF SO, HOW?

Q. THAT COVERS OPERATING EXPENSES-BUT WHERE IS THE MONEY COMING FROM TO BUY ALL THAT EQUIPMENT FOR HIGH-POWER BROADCASTING?

A. Three possible major sources: (1) The Corporation for Public Broadcasting, which has funds for several types of station development and programming; (2) other corporations and foundations; (3) individuals and groups in the potential broadcasting area.

Q. WHOSE IDEA WAS IT TO GO HIGH-POWER ANYWAY?

A. This goal has been under consideration by the station staff and board of directors ever since the station was organized in 1969. It has always been considered a major goal. The increased funds and interests on the part of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting make the financial aspects appear manageable.

Q. WOULD STUDENTS BE ABLE TO PARTICIPATE IN THE OPERATION OF THE STATION?

A. To be eligible for CPB and other federal grants, the station must have or be moving toward five full-time staff members. Precedents set by other stations like Wake Forest suggest that several students could be employed as part-time announcers or staff members at Davidson. Other openings, such as news and public affairs, seem possible. Just how many student openings there would be depends on what kind of operating budget is available and what regulations specify.

The Farmworkers are asking you to boycott Gallo wines. Please help. Keene, Ca. 93531.