AMERICA’S FARMWORKERS ARE ASKING YOU TO BOYCOTT GALLO WINES.

After suffering for decades under unspeakable living and working conditions, America’s farmworkers came together in the 1960s to form a
union, a union that would fight for their rights and articulate their needs.

The union was the United Farm Workers of America (UFWA), and under its leadership, conditions improved dramatically. A little too
dramatically to suit some of the growers, and when the contracts expired last summer, many growers did their best to
destroy what the workers had built. Ernest and Julio Gallo, the world’s largest winery, spearheaded the union-busting effort.

Last June, Gallo announced that UFWA contracts would not be renewed. New contracts were signed with the Teamsters Union, contracts
that had been worked out behind closed doors with no worker participation. Not surprisingly, the contracts gave Gallo and the
Teamsters Union everything they wanted, and gave the workers almost nothing.

The Teamsters contracts brought dangerous pesticides back into the fields and allowed virtually unlimited automation. Fair employment practices went out
the window, and living and working conditions returned to the bad old days. UFWA organizers and sympathizers were systematically fired
and evicted from company-owned housing. Faced with the prospect of a giant step backwards, Gallo's field hands chose to go
out on strike. But men, women, and children manning the picket lines were met with a massive campaign of violence
and intimidation, forcing them to withdraw from the fields and return to the consumer boycott. But they need your help
to make it work.

The basic issue in the Gallo boycott is, simply, democracy. The workers want the right to choose their own union
through free, independently supervised elections. Other American workers are guaranteed this right by law, but agricultural workers aren't. By boycotting
all Gallo products, you can help give them this basic right. Boones Farm, Spanada, Ripple, Thunderbird, Tyrolia, Andre, Eden Roc,
Carlo Rossi, Red Mountain, and Paisano are all made by Gallo, and should be avoided. America’s farmworkers have broken their
backs for hundreds of years to put food on your table. Now they're asking you to do something for them.
Will you?

Help America’s farmworkers survive the coming weeks or months without a working wage. I would like to help with the
boycott of Gallo Wine. Please send me more information.

Your Name

Address

City

Make Checks Payable to “United Farm Workers of America”

Mail to: United Farm Workers of America P.O. Box 62

Call 822-557 for further info.
