Twelve March 15, 1974 The Davidsonian

Christian Dogma Vs. Social Ills
BY JOHN COOK
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, March 13, Calvin Malefyt completed a series of lectures that were oriented to human social problems and attempted to provide a Christian solution for those problems. In Ann Arbor, Michigan, Malefyt is the minister of the University of the Reformed Church where he engages in a Christian witness to members of the campus community. His academic credentials are impressive, and his specialty is the field of psychology. Counseling students and others from his area, Malefyt is interested in announcing the Christian answer to the dilemmas of modern man. Man, in his biblical view, is fallen and must be redeemed inside before any solution to any human problem can be found.

The lectures dealt with the pathetic state of American society, sexuality, distressed young people, humanists, and most other ills. Sunday evening Malefyt spoke on the American dream and its sad failure. The government and the establishment in general are not to be blamed for this state of affairs. The individual bears the responsibility and must turn to God for the answer. Humanism has failed; modern man must turn to Christianity. Malefyt’s brand is orthodox and slightly dogmatic.

On Monday evening the series continued with a lecture on “Erotic Fantasies and Reality.” The extensive experience that Malefyt has had in counseling enabled him to provide many penetrating insights into the negative side of human sexuality. He often quoted psychologists in his judgments on sexual relations, and he gave many examples of unhappy couples that had indulged in premarital sex. In his discussion of sexuality, he condemned three points of view: the treatment of man as a commodity to be manipulated and exploited (such as the way sex is used in advertising); the belief that man’s sexuality is purely biological (where sex becomes a cup of water); and the limitation of man’s being solely to his sexual nature. Sexuality taken as the totality of human existence is a barometer of emptiness. In this case, sex becomes an expression of neurotic tendencies. Men and women are unable to relate with each other. The reaction to this state is non-commitment to other humans, new kinds of moralistic asceticism, new forms of voyeurism, and meaningless communal sex.

After a long analysis of this unhappy aspect of sexuality, Malefyt presented the Christian answer in a nutshell. Man and woman are created in the image of God; thus sex is a gift to be enjoyed in terms of total, spiritual person. Sex cannot be separated from the individual's complete self. The reality of Jesus Christ is to govern all human relationships.

The lecture on anger Tuesday evening was directed again to the negative side of human life. Divorces,

---

March Hollins Furman Converse Pfeiffer Latin School SRLSa April Duke Queens, Radcliffe Mary Baldwin U. Va. R-M W-C Duke Queens Pfeiffer UNC-CH Westminster School Converse

---

Women’s Tennis

---

Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N.C.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7. — Wed. 9 - 12, — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N.C
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics - Russell Stover Candies...Violent student protests, crimes, and many other social ills are due to the individual’s inability to relate to others and to deal effectively with his anger. In investigating this phenomenon, Malefyt did not neglect the smiling Christian who must constantly conceal the seething anger inside himself. Frustrated people direct their hostility toward the government, the president, or some other scapegoat in order that they might ignore their own personal situations. Protests against war end in violent deaths. Families shoot each other. After this drawn-out description of the problem, Malefyt quoted several Bible verses to corroborate his response to the situation. He affirmed the necessity of faith to deal with anger and to express one’s anger in constructive ways. His solution was extremely brief.

The address on free love was basically the same as the others. Men mistakenly put their love in books, dogs, pleasure, and other material things. Eros is used to block anxiety and anger. Love is not enough to answer man’s needs. The free love of God is necessary to enable men to love one another. The response to Malefyt has been enthusiastic among more conservative Christian students, but there is a general dissatisfaction among many others including some members of the faculty and administration. The lectures were rambling and loosely organized, and the solutions that Dr. Malefyt proposed were often simplistic and unfulfilling. Some critics think that his Sunday evening lecture did not succeed in drawing a connection between the failing American Dream and the Christian answer. Listeners to the talk on sexuality were told that they should turn to Jesus Christ for guidance in human relationships. Though Christian, this answer is not adequately effective and is ambiguous in its concrete implications for human life. The lecture was extremely disorganized, and Malefyt did not have enough time to express his Christian response in a constructive fashion. As in the case of the lecture on sexuality, telling people to accept Jesus Christ only begins to solve the problem. One member of the administration remarked that quoting a few Bible verses was simply not enough to help one deal with the situation. Malefyt’s analysis of free love ended with the conclusion that if one loves God, one can experience the “correct” kind of human love. This ambiguity is difficult to apply to everyday life. The man is a curious combination of conservative theology and a liberal social outlook. He is involved in social activism and does not shy away from political issues.

shh! we want to hear you

NORTHWESTERN

The Quest Company
Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036

College Agents
Brad Tipler
Dick Richardson
Rollie White
Bill Smith
Mike Pappas

Here are some of the things the American Red Cross can do: help you find (and pay for) temporary lodgings. Provide you with clothes. Counsel. And other necessities. All free. Surprised? Remember: Red Cross is more than blood drives. It's more than helping thousands of victims of disasters. In fact, American Red Cross tackles over 100 different kinds of “Helping People” jobs—in the city, the suburbs, wherever you are. We need money, it's true, so we can go on offering all our free services. But we also need hearts. And hands. And conviction. Call your local chapter. Join us.

A Public Service of This Newspaper & The Advertising Council