EIGHT

February 15, 1974

The Davidsonian

Friday, February 15
all week Art Exhibit: 8-10 p.m.

Saturday, February 16
8:15 p.m.

Sunday, February 17
Athletes

Monday, February 18
Tuesday, February 19
all day

Wednesday, February 20
Thursday, February 21

Up ‘n Coming
John Stockdale 5:00 p.m.
Winter Term classes end
8 & 10 p.m. Film: “What’s Up Doc?” Love Auditorium

Calendar symposium 9 a.m.
Calendar symposium Perkins 12:30 p.m.
all day Rifle Team match Petersburg N.C.
Southern Invitational Regional Tournament
Basketball: East Carolina
6:30-7:30 p.m. Fellowship of Christian
9 a.m. Winter Examinations Begin
all day Exam distribution Chambers Banquet Hall
10-11 p.m. SGA Grievance Martin Room Committee meeting
Exam distribution Chambers Banquet Hall
Exam distribution Basketball: Appalachian
Winter Examinations end Perkins Johnston Gym Morrison Room

guess who? from watts, that’s who...

Altered BSC Reflects
(Continued from page 2)

ships with all the black groups in this area. We are sending some men up for a day or two
to get involved there.” Some of those who were associated with the more activist stand taken by the BSC last
year are now on Junior Year Abroad but Thompson stresses that the change in the BSC program is more than
the result of their absence. “I have changed our overall policy because otherwise I don’t think that the BSC can
act as a very effective force on campus. We don’t have the numbers to change the system here. Most of
us have realized that it boils down to the integration of each and every black at Davidson. The BSC can’t
fight all the battles; it’s a fight of individuals. The people have changed from last year. At the start of
this year, we looked over what we had done before and I decided that what we are doing now was
the course we had to take,” he explained.

I Am Not Charles Kennon!
By T. C. HURTZ Associate Editor

I was trying to get to sleep at about 1 a.m. last Thursday night when I heard the DAVIDSONIAN being
dropped at the door. Since I really didn’t want to sleep anyway and I had a column in the paper,
I got up to take a look. I couldn't find the article. Thinking to myself, “I’ll murder Wilensky if he
cut my Louie Mills article,” I looked through the paper again. I found the article, but whose name was in
the by-line? Charles Kennon. Charles Kennon? I hear sounds of a volcanic disturbance in the hall, and the muted notes
of Slagle’s voice, “Somebody has got to know what this trash is all about.” I throw on some clothes and
go out in the hall to see Slagle and Bender. “Mary, where’s your article?” asks Bender, brandishing a DAVIDSONIAN. “It’s
right there, Bender.” “Hobbie, who is Charles Kennon?” “He’s a kid on the newspaper staff.” “He’s a real person?” “Yeah,
but he didn’t write the column, I wrote the column. What a rip-off!” “Did Wilensky do that? Let’s go get
him. He can’t do stuff like that!” Bender and I run down to first Little, kick at the door of
Wilensky’s room and go in. “Wilensky, what is this?” Wilensky obviously doesn’t grasp the finer points of Bender's meaning so
Bender climbs half-way up the ladder to the left and shows the paper to Wilensky. “What happened, Wilensky?” By this
time, I am awake enough to be P.O.ed. Bender doesn’t seem to be getting any response from Wilensky so we
leave after kicking the door a few more times. Going back upstairs, I see a body sprawled across the hall
and recognize the human remains of C.A. “Mary, is this...

IMAC Tournament News
(Continued from page 7)

the Snarks, however, they lost by two and then folded to the Es by thirty the next night. The teams
left as of Tuesday...

Girls Basketball Ends
(Continued from page 6)

used spectacular rebounding to pummel the less physical Pfeiffer squad into a 50-46 defeat. Led by Dea Booth’s 22 rebounds
and Sherrill’s 19 points the Wildcattes gained their seventh win. Katherine Morton also added strong support with 15 markers and
10 rebounds. In the second overtime of last week’s Pfeiffer game, the Wildkittens were beaten 45-43. The team was zapped
by a 35-foot shot at the buzzer after Matheny had tied the game, sinking a foul shot with four seconds
left. TheWomen were led by their three leading scorers for the season: Matheny, Morton, and Sherrill, who had 14, 14,
and 11 points respectively. Sherrill added 14 rebounds to equal her point total. This year’s team was dominated by the
forwards and centers but also got steady performances from their guards. Sally Bondurant and Nora McNeill were both known for
their aggressive and mean defensive play. Becca Stimson provided some offensive spark.

Division of TANDY CORPORATION meets Authorized Dealer
THE SHOP Electronics Unlimited
173 N. Main St.
663-4513
Mooresville, N.C.

The Old Men and PGD with no losses, SAE, Little Big Men, the Cleveland Indians, and the Hoboken Snarks all
with one loss. One closing comment: if ARA is going to impound all the dogs (look out Wasted and Max),
then the gym people shouldn't let the SPEs take over half the gym on Saturday of all days, for something
like N.C. SPE 241 N. Main St. day. Phone 664-3624 Mooresville, N.C. Long may they rave. Love, D.C.

POP FILMS presents
Auditorium Admission $1.00
Friday, Feb. 15
Barbara Ryan Door Prize at 8 and 10:30 p.m.
‘WHAT'S UP DOC?’
Laugh while you can before exams.

“Your article?”
“Yeah.”
“We thought so—it sounds like you. Look at what they did to Young Buck and me this week. And they
let you put in ‘Eat Shit, Bender’. We can’t even put in a goddamn.”
“Yeah, but goddamn is worse than Eat Shit.”
“It's the principle of the thing.”

At this point, Young Buck bounds into the hall.
“Hobbie, is this your article?”
“Yeah.”
“We thought so, they let you put in ‘Eat Shit, Bender!’”
“Yeah.”
“Where’s Bender?”
“I’m in here,” says Bender, sticking his head out a door, “sitting on Celentano’s head.”
“CELENTANO! You are a plagiarist!” howls Young Buck.
“It's piracy of Captain America and Young Buck,” notes C.A.
“Let's go,” says Buck.
“O.K., but let’s get Wilensky first,” says C.A.
“Somebody ask him how the hell Charles Kennon got my article,” yells I.

Y.B., C.A., and Bender go to get Wilensky. I decide to go to bed. When I get to the third
floor, I hear Slagle talking, so I go in to join the party.
“Have you seen what they did to my article?” asks Slagle.
“Have you seen mine?” I ask.
“Where is it? I can't read anything right now.”
I looked at Slagle—he was speaking the truth.
“Here it is, Slagle.”
“Who's Charles Kennon—is he a real person?”

Before I could answer him, Bender bounded in yelling, “Where’s Hobbie?”
“What's wrong, Bender?”
“What is this, Hobbie? ‘Eat Shit, Bender’?” says Young Buck.
“I didn’t say it, Dave, it’s a quote.”

I discover that Slagle is a good person to hide behind.
“I don’t believe it. ‘Eat Shit, Bender’, Mills never said that!” yells Bender.
“It's a legend, Bender,” I say soothingly. “Eat Shit, Bender!”

We move into the hall. The party is growing and candy valentines are being thrown around. As each new arrival
comes up, Bender says, “Read this. She says ‘Eat shit, Bender!’”
“I didn’t say it, Bender.”

Young Buck returns to the party and starts tearing the DAVIDSONIAN to shreds.
“She can say ‘Eat shit, Bender’ and we can’t even say ‘goddamn!’”
“I didn’t say it!”

Candy valentines and hearts and somebody’s coat go out the 3rd floor window. Doug goes down to get his coat,
and the conversation begins to lose its high tone. Bucky is playing guitar on a broom. Somebody has tied Slagle’s
shoes together and he can’t get up.
“Hobbie, what have you been drinking?”
“Slagle, you're in no condition to ask that. How many rounds did you people have at Hatties?”

Slagle finally gets to his feet and he, Bender, Young Buck, Earp, et al. start to leave.
“I think it was 15. The Queens beat the SPEs tonight.”
That explains it.

MEN! — WOMEN! JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00
for information, SEAFAX, Dept. 4-14 P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362.

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
Streisand . O'Neil
First Union National.
DAVIDSON each showing.
