Che Vol. LXIII, No. Twenty-One N. C. 28036 HAauvuinsonittan Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, N April 5,
1974

SGA Appropriates Counseling Funds
By STEVE BELL
News Editor

After an hour-long discussion at its meeting Tuesday night, the SGA Senate decided to reinstate Merideth Hall’s current psychological counseling
program for next year. By a vote of 13-0, the Senate agreed to subsidize Hall with $5000 next year, and
the SGA Psychological Counseling Committee (PCC) is now in the process of drafting a formal contract.

The Senate’s action came in response to the college administration’s recent decision to cut its financial support of Hall by
50 percent. This year the administration is contracted with Hall for two days of counseling on campus per week. However,
the administration has recently announced that it will pay him for only one day of counseling per week next year.
Two new counselors, W. Gatewood Workman and the wife of a new faculty member, will be added to the program,
and each will also be funded for one day of counseling per week.

However, SGA President Blain Butner expressed dissatisfaction with the promise of the two additional counselors. “The variety is good, but
there are disadvantages to having such unknown quantities as the new psychologists,” he said. Further, John Munce, chairman of the
PCC, pointed out other disadvantages since no counselor would be available to a student for more than one day per
week. “The College is pulling a fast one on us by increasing the number of counseling hours but decreasing the
availability of any one counselor,” he argued. Moreover, he pointed out that Workman will not begin his counseling activities until
the beginning of winter term next year.

Referring to the Senate response to this situation, Butner said, “I think this vote shows a strong desire on the
part of the Senate to support a program of proven quality. $5000 is a lot of money for the Senate
to budget.” As Munce explained, “We think it is important enough to contract an extra day because of Dr. Hall’s
proven activity in the past, and because we support an adequate time frame for him to work with students. One
day per week is just not adequate.”

The $5000 subsidy for Hall's counseling will be added to the Senate’s recent petition for funds. This nearly doubles the
Senate's budget for next year. Butner did express some surprise that a decision of such significance to the Senate was
reached with no dissenting votes and only two abstentions.

Other budget (See SGA, page 2)

Young Chastises Neo-Fascist
By ANDY LAMAS
Senior News Editor

“The entire Watergate affair makes me realize that we've had a very close brush with fascism,” commented Reverend Andrew Young
(Democrat), Fifth District Congressman from Atlanta, Georgia. Young visited the Davidson campus April 1, and addressed himself to a number
of the problems facing the United States in the decade of the ’70s.

Despite his initial harsh appraisal of the Watergate affair, Young commented, “Exposure of Watergate was a victory for democracy.” The
Congressman praised the nation’s processes, press, and Congress for their efforts in securing the facts about President Nixon and Watergate.
“Judges, like John Sirica, have stood up for the truth during this entire Watergate affair. Sirica is labeled in Washington
as ‘maximum John’, meaning he is known for sentencing convicted judicial

Smith Secures ACU-I Presidency
By WAYNE GULLEDGE
Staff Writer

At the 51st Conference of the Association of College Unions-International in Toronto, Canada, C. Shaw Smith, director of the Davidson
College Union, rose to accept the presidency of thatorganization for the coming year. He carried with him to the podium
a hefty speech manuscript which caused some consternation among his colleagues who were familiar with his sometimes extended speeches. To
the surprise of all, he said simply, "I accept." This illustrated well the character and good humor of a man
who has devoted prodigious amounts of his time and effort to the betterment of college and university unions across the
country and in many countries overseas. Smith's ascension to the ACU-I presidency, the first time in 22 years that the
association’s president has been selected from a school the size of Davidson, climaxed years of work during which he has
held numerous leadership positions. In past years, Smith has served on the association’s Conference Program Committee and Resolutions Committee and
in 1967, he was the keynote speaker for the ACU-I Philadelphia Conference. His many contributions were recognized in 1972 when
he became the seventh person in the association’s history to receive the Butts-Whiting Award, the highest service honor that the
association can bestow. Smith was the first to receive the award without previously serving as president. The ACU-I, which has
members from nearly 1000 colleges and universities across the country and several foreign countries, conducts research in all areas of
union operation. Its publications attempt to make available the latest innovations in union management and services. Smith looks forward in
the next year to extensive public relations work on the part of the union as "a vital part of the
college experience." Smith feels that Davidson is now in a position to create a union program which can truly become
an integral part of the college experience. "I’ve seen what other institutions have to deal with and I can safely
say that the problems we face in union operation are minimal in comparison," he said. Smith expressed his gratitude to
both the administration for its understanding toward his frequent absences necessitated by his ACU-I activities and to the students who
kept the union running smoothly while he was away.

criminals to maximum fines and prison sentences. "It’s ironical that many of the alleged Watergate conspirators must appear in Sirica’s
court," remarks Young. Young has been critical of the press on many occasions, especially concerning the civil rights movements and
the Vietnam War. "During this entire Watergate affair, however, the press has been unrelenting in its attempt to obtain the
truth. My faith has been restored in the power of the press," stated Young. Young criticized the "neo-fascist" group which
was allowed to form around President Nixon. "Almost every appointment above the GS-12 level -- which is pretty low --
has had to go through Nixon's White House office for executive political clearance. Presidents Kennedy and Johnson never displayed such
authoritarian acts. In fact, the number of Republicans in government positions under their administrations was quite large," claimed Young. The
Georgia Congressman commented that Nixon usually has moved in the right direction on international affairs but has failed to respond
to the nation’s domestic problems. "Nixon has displayed a lack of interest and concern in the social welfare of our
poor and in the nation’s many urban-area problems," observed Young. Young is convinced that sufficient support for Nixon’s impeachment will
manifest itself between now and July 4.

(See YOUNG, page 12)

Approved Calendar

On March 28, the academic calendar for the 1974-1975 school year was finalized. The most notable feature of this modified
calendar is that Thanksgiving Day 1974 will fall during the recess between the Fall and Winter terms whereas before, classes
had been scheduled for that day. Fall freshman orientation will begin on Saturday, September 7 and classes will begin the
following Wednesday.
