Fourteen

FOLLOWING THE BOUNCING BALL

Master of the courts Bill Allen stays in shape for Davidson's current tennis season. Allen is Davidson's number one singles player and figures prominently in hopes for another Southern Conference crown.

Yankees Reconstruct Character Of Sixties

By PETER CELENTANO

Once again it’s that time of year when sports fans everywhere suffer an embarrassment of riches. Basketball (both pro and college) and hockey are moving along into their playoff showdowns. Most importantly, it’s spring-training time for pro baseball, the time when every team has a shot at the World Series, new hopes come from the pastures to bring a team back to glory and, most significant of all, no one has yet lost a game. For most, World Series dreams, built so carefully in March, come crashing down in April. For me, last year’s dream didn't crash until August. You see, I am a Yankee fan. Substitute any team you want, Phillies, Cubs, Dodgers, Pirates, this could be the story of anyone’s devotion to a single team. Alternately you suffer and celebrate, curse, cajole and praise your team as it climbs upward and upward only to fall back to the bottom. If you look hard you'll find us Yankee fans. Inspect the person next to you: We are everywhere.

There was no trick to being a Yankee fan 10 or 15 years ago. The team was a machine, rolling to pennants and world championships. One marveled at stars such as Mantle, Maris, Richardson, Skowron, Boyer. Who could ever forget Bud Daley or “Big Jim” Coates (ask a Yankee fan)? Unfortunately, the Yankee dynasty crashed in the middle sixties. Many lost the faith, but those who held true, like Christian martyrs, knew that someday their star would rise again.

The seventies saw the birth of a new spirit. Gone was “Murderers' Row,” here were the “go-go Yankees” led by new heroes Mel Stottlemyre, Bobby Mercer and Thurman Munson, and who can forget Len Boehmer? The “go-go Yankees” had bright hopes last year. Yankee fans reeled as Las Vegas oddsmakers made them the favorite to win the Eastern Division titles. In June, this Yankee fan went crazy as the team climbed into first place and stayed there for 30 glorious days. The bubble burst ignominiously in August as the Yankees went into a tailspin and the hated, lucky Orioles won 11 in a row. Damned Orioles! The playoffs and World Series were merely a formality. As I watched Reggie Jackson tee off on Tom Seaver, I remembered Mickey Mantle’s dramatic ninth inning home run off Barney Schultz in the sixth game of the ’64 Series. I hoped this nightmare would be over and I'd wake up to find the Yankees in the World Series.

Now it’s a new season. The Yankees are under a new manager, there are some new faces and the outlook is rosy. My prediction is the Yanks take the Series in six. In spring training season, the talk always turns to baseball trivia. To help you along, here is a little quiz. Answers will appear in next week’s issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN. (See REAWAKENED, page 15)

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

“We have a lot of depth this year, but we are not nearly as strong as we were last season,” explained Davidson Head Tennis Coach Jeff Frank. That may be quite an understatement, as the defending Southern Conference champions go after another net crown this season. Hurt by the loss of four of their top six players from last year’s squad, which lost only two matches and finished the season with 23 victories, the Cats seek to rebuild around three key seniors who returned this year for their final varsity competition.

Bill Allen leads the way at the number one singles position. Last season he played mostly at the number three slot, where he compiled a very impressive record. Allen teamed up to win the number two doubles title in the Southern Conference Tournament at the close of last season. Rick Quinby also returns for the Cats, afterWinning the conference crown at the number six singles slot, he will be playing number two for the Cats this season and will team with Allen to play in the first doubles position. The other top senior for Davidson is Gary Bressler, who will be playing number three, while vying with Quinby for the second slot. Bressler won the number five singles title two years ago. He also plays doubles with another senior member of the squad, Jim Dorsett. These two were the runners-up in the number three doubles competition last year.

Frank feels that the major difference between this year’s edition of Davidson tennis as opposed to the previous season is the depth positioning. What this amounts to is that last year, the Cats had depth in the upper portion of their line-up, while this season, the real depth comes in the bottom segment, primarily the fourth through sixth singles slots. “Last season we played with four guys who could have played number one for us,” Frank explained. “Now we are really thin in the top three positions with only Allen, Quinby, and Bressler really being able to compete at the top three singles.”

But the cloud does have something of a silver lining, for the Cats are blessed with depth in the lower portion of their line-up. Frank said he thought that the next eight players are fairly well balanced, which will give the Cats strength in the fourth, fifth, and sixth singles positions.

Speaking of the schedule, Frank indicated that he was certain this year’s slate was much tougher than the previous one. “Some of the good teams that we have included this year are South Carolina and Presbyterian, both of which have good potential,” he commented. “In addition, Dartmouth, East Stroudsburg, and Swarthmore have excellent teams, not to mention our meetings with Duke and Carolina.”

Frank went on to say that he expects quite a few tight matches, which means the doubles events could have quite a significant influence on the outcome of many matches. Here Frank expressed optimism in reference to the doubles. “We have really been playing fine doubles so far and I am certain that we will improve even more as the season draws on,” Frank said. “This should be a valuable asset to us, since I would have to consider us in a match if we were even down 2-4 after the singles.”

Heading the doubles line-up are Allen and Quinby, who occupy the number one slot. Bressler and Dorsett are right behind in the second spot. “I think Bill and Rick are both playing great doubles for us,” Frank explained. “Bill is really coming along in his game and Rick is improving as well, adapting from the number six position that he held last year. He seems to have excellent concentration.” Bressler and Dorsett also have an added advantage of having played together in competition for so long.

Senior Scoot Dimon is presently holding down the number four singles spot, after returning from the Junior Year Abroad program. He also played for Frank in high school. Freshman Steve Holman is presently the number five man. Frank feels that he will show improvement as he gains experience. The other starter at the present time is sophomore John Mitchell. Frank feels that the depth of the team keeps the players under pressure to survive the weekly challenge matches.

(See NETTERS, page 15)

SICK? The Davidson College Infirmary is open daily to all full-time Davidson students from 7:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. A nurse is on call for emergencies throughout the night, but students must telephone her at 892-3031 before coming. For routine complaints, sick call is held twice each day at 1:15 p.m. and 7 p.m. The doctor conducts one, the nurse conducts the other. The doctor’s hours are:
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday

Piedmont Insurance
137 North Main Street
P.O. Box 2348
Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Phone: 892-8054

Where the good things are!
Cornelius, N.C. 892-8468