Brickels Named Cat Basketball Coach

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

Davidson College named Bo Brickels as its new head basketball coach, less than 48 hours after former mentor Terry Holland resigned. The announcement was made informally by college president Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Brickels, who had served for five years under Holland, will take over the similar post at Virginia.

“That Brickels has the support of the team was evidenced Wednesday afternoon when they voted unanimously in favor of him at a team meeting. “It has been a long time and I was beginning to wonder if I was ever going to get the chance to do the job,” commented Brickels, the silver-haired coach. “This game has been my life and my dream has always been to be the head coach.”

But Brickels was quick, even during this highly emotional period, to express his gratitude and appreciation for the opportunity to have served under Holland. “It was really a fortunate experience to have worked for Terry,” Brickels said. “He is a great guy as well as a coach. It has just been a super five years.”

He continued by saying that Jim Larranaga will stay on and continue as an assistant here. Brickels praised Larranaga and termed the school “very fortunate” to have him. Larranaga is presently away on recruiting assignments. Speaking of recruiting, Brickels mentioned that “we are very close to signing some people that will really help our program.”

Brickels spoke of his happiness regarding the opportunity to be a head coach. But he said that it was more than just being the man at the top. “It is really something that every coach dreams of and I am no exception,” he said. “I am not sure what it is like.”

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
March 29, 1974

“I have been waiting for the chance. Seven years under other people is a long time. Sometimes you wonder if it is going to pass you by.” Brickels also considered the fact that most schools are going for younger men in coaching. At many times, this had raised more apprehension in his thinking. But he has forgotten, at least temporarily, all the anxieties that came before his appointment. “It is just a great opportunity and I am just overwhelmed that the college has accepted me,” Brickels stated.

But one of the influential factors that made him certain that this is the place where he really wanted to be a head coach was the people associated with the program here, especially the players whom he was instrumental in recruiting. “The people here have made me enthusiastic,” he claimed. “They made me certain that this was the place for me. We have guys that want to play and want to win. I really feel that I know them and that is very important for a team.”

Brickels is a native of the Midwest, but considers this to be home. “I have the greatest respect for the college and its officials,” Brickels pointed out. “This is a super place to live and I certainly did not want to leave. This is home.”

Brickels will begin his new duties immediately, but will continue with the important task of recruiting first.

Student Self-Study Report

By BRUCE CORSER
Managing Editor

The student component of the once-per-decade Institutional Self-Study of Davidson College is now complete and in the hands of the faculty. Written by the Self-Study Committee of Students, the 33-page report was prepared atThe request of the faculty Steering Committee for a comprehensive "set of analyses and recommendations concerning those facets of college life to which students can bring a unique perspective." The report is based on general guidelines which the Steering Committee suggested as being worthy of evaluation. These guidelines were then subdivided into more specific topics and assigned to individual committee members. Aided by the responses to questions contributed to a master (84 percent of the total distributed were returned) and individual research, each member wrote up an analysis of their area of concentration. The student committee as a whole then reviewed each individual report, deciding which recommendations it felt were warranted. These recommendations and suggestions specific analysis. As a result of this review, Blain Butner, SGA president and an editor of the student report, observed that "the entirety of our document is a consensus of at least a majority of the committee."

The five parts of the final report are Educational Program, Special Activities, History and Purpose, Students, and Student Government. Butner noted that the Committee of Students "tried to cover every area and issue which needs to be evaluated or changed. However, because of the scope of the entire Self-Study, we were unable to analyze in depth everything." The report itself will eventually be incorporated as a part of the faculty’s Self-Study and will aid the Steering Committee in its deliberations. Following is a summary of some of the more significant recommendations.

In the realm of the educational program, the Committee of Students recommended that Davidson examine the offerings of various calendar structures and determine and implement the one most appropriate for the College.

STUDENT COMMITTEE
Mark Connors--Counseling and Advising
Pat Morgan--Student/Faculty/Administration Relations
Alec Hoon--Publications
Jim Goodloe--Student Government
Dubose Porter--Honor System, Hearing Committee
John Hornickel--Governance
Blain Butner--Chairman
Eric Wather--Editor
Katie Early--Security, Health Care, Athletics, Women Students

The report also advocated that the P.E. requirement for graduation be evaluated to determine its function and worth to students. The Committee recommended that the Drop/Add period be extended to five weeks on a trial basis. Also, the analysis maintained that emphasis be shifted away from the single, three-hour examination as a final and major evaluation of a student's capabilities. For exceptional participation in non-academic activities, the committee advised awarding credit so as to encourage students to seek involvement in extracurriculars. Another recommendation concerned the need to update the advisement procedures and personnel in the pre-professional areas.

The student portion of the self-study noted that the Davidson student should be free to set up a study abroad program in any college or university in the world that is academically creditable. Also, an equitable grading system and course credit transfers from foreign study should be instituted. According to the report, the expansion of the scope of international studies should include the option of a sophomore year abroad program.

Another significant recommendation related that the requirement for awarding faculty tenure on the basis of a professed Christian faith be abolished. However, in order to maintain a church-relatedness, there should be an increased emphasis on those organizations based on Christian stewardship such as the YM/YWCA.

Another area the students (See SELF, page 16)