Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Freshmen Blitz

“There is more to the show than just people going on stage and doing their thing,” Connors explained.

“We want the new students to cooperate in putting their acts together because this way they get acquainted more rapidly.”

Freshmen Jayne Reich and Sherry Natale held the same view. Reich felt that the idea of putting aside personal preferences for the good of the whole was a notion from which all could benefit.

By CHARLES KENNON
Asst. Managing Editor

The Class of 1978 was formally introduced into Davidson College on Sunday, Sept. 1, marking the beginning of the four-day freshman orientation.

“We all learned that compromises are necessary, and the talent show forced us to act as a unit. The activities not only provided individual opportunities but also created opportunities for teamwork. Most of them are barriers that can be hurdled,” Succop elaborated.

Reich and Natale echoed this sentiment.

“I feel no strong sense of male dominance or discrimination here,” Reich said.

She thought that certain individuals may have reservations about coeducation, but that any resulting problems would be rare.

Both were convinced that they will be first accepted as Davidson students and not be categorized solely as male or female.

According to Connors and Succop, the reasons for the success of the 1974 Freshman Orientation were the opportunities to improve in these ways.

Reich summed up the orientation experience as a time of enlightenment.

“In these few days we do a lot of learning,” she said. “We are taught about the school. We learn about our classmates from living with them. All of this then should aid us in learning about ourselves, and that is the best education we could get anywhere.”

Two other events were mentioned by Connors and Succop as being highly regarded by the freshmen.

“The Freshman Regatta and Cake Race are by nature group efforts. In the regatta, everyone is encouraged to contribute, and in the Cake Race, people have an attitude that they aren’t just running for themselves, but for the honor of the hall,” said Connors.

The Regatta, held annually at Lake Norman, was won by Richardson Basement. The Cake Race is conducted as part of the cross-country program. A record was set this year by Cliff. His time of 8:54.3 broke the previous record established by Tony Pinckney last year. Second place was won by Dick Boehner, with Justus finishing third.

---

Note: The last part of the text seems to have some formatting issues, especially with the names and times. If there are any specific corrections needed for that part, please let me know.