The Evolution of Davidson, Part IV

A Code Of Behaviour Transcends Personal Faculty Predilections

By TOM BRUCE

The history of the class of '74 has been basically happy. No one thinks much about it one way or the other. We are all content and we are willing to see it through, grinning and bearing whatever remains to be grinned and borne. Graduation will be a happy moment for almost everyone for almost every reason. Some have dreaded each new dawn at Davidson, and to them commencement will be a relief and an end to the charade. To others, Davidson has meant success and Paradise on earth; for them, graduation is the culmination of all this bliss. For still others whose feelings are not so conclusive, there is satisfaction at having accomplished "something," no matter how unknown or useless.

It has been a long time since I knew nothing about Davidson. The year before I applied to college, I read the catalog from cover to cover, plus all the promotional literature I could lay my hands on. After all this reading, I was at the summit of my ignorance, and I realize this today. Several of my friends had applied for admission to Davidson, but they received one-page rejections instead of the bulky envelope that I received. After I arrived, I saw dozens of computer sheets posted in Chambers. These sheets listed the hundreds of names of people who had been accepted for study at Davidson alongside the even longer sheets of those who had merely applied. The difference in size was attributable to the names of the rejected.

The student becomes a master at selective amnesia and Dr. Peale’s strategy for positive thinking. But slowly this momentum begins to fade and the old worries reappear, and with the tramplings of this last optimism comes a hard-nosed cynicism. Students become increasingly derogatory about Davidson in their conversations; hostility and bitterness are taken for granted. Other students refuse to articulate their complaints, sensing that they are incredibly pampered and that the blame for their failures lies wholly within themselves. The arguments and reasoning of these students are increasingly a trademark of Davidson life, and by the junior year, it predominates. They refuse to criticize the Davidson education on any but the most superficial grounds. They have invested two years in college and they have realized that it will contribute toward their mental health if they refuse to give ground to their old fears. They begin to champion faculty members whom they once ridiculed. They begin to quote the party line, offering resistance to any suggestion that Davidson College is weak in any respect. They find happiness in their new roles as victims, much as the victims of famines and wars find that they are more resourceful and responsible after they have lived through devastation. They say thank you to each new disaster.

These students and their classmates ultimately reach a cruel crossroads. Having ignored their instincts for two years, they realize that they are...

"Today I do not pity the applicants who never get the chance to debut at Davidson. A quick rejection is one of the most painless ways to deal with Davidson." Apparently, these unlucky legions would not have Davidson's help in becoming "persons of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment." Today I do not pity the applicants who never get the chance to debut at Davidson. A quick rejection is one of the most painless ways to deal with Davidson. It can prevent agony after arrival when one senses the futility of competing in the whole bundle of withdrawal symptoms that accompany adjustment to life at Davidson.

I wonder if anyone actively appreciates the plight of freshmen at Davidson. Twice a week, the announcement sheet is packed with lectures to hear, films to see, and performances to attend. But the freshman overlooks these opportunities so that he can spend 10 or 11 hours a day attending classes and working in the library. Two weeks pass and he never ventures outside the area of a few blocks, bounded by the library, dorm, and classroom. Of course, he spends Saturday night drunk with his restless hallmates, only to feel guilty on the long, inevitably rainy, Sunday afternoon.

Sunday afternoon — the time when one must account for the failures of the past week and reconcile the hopeless week ahead. A humanities theme is due on Tuesday on an assigned topic. There are two reviews on Thursday with writs likely at any moment. Vocabulary words in a foreign language are probable, as are memorization of proofs in calculus sequence, which seems to be the undoing of students. None of these activities is unworthy or even unwelcome on the face of the situation. But when they come on top of one another in endless profusion, when the reviews and themes become so automatic and so meaningless, one begins to feel like a victim caught in a very web. You begin to distrust your own feelings on the subject, deferring to the influence of the upperclassmen and the college graduates who are always around you. If they can live through it, so can I! Somewhere along the way, the hope that your ongoing education should be useful to other people, your family, and friends...is lost, as it becomes obvious that you are not really helping anyone by going to Davidson. The concepts and terminology that characterize collegiate homework take on an ever more remote significance, memories of the world outside Davidson where diversity and conflict flourish. When one returns as a sophomore, hope gets its second and last wind. Everyone has grown up hearing that the freshman year is the worst, and that once the early difficulties are surmounted, the way is clear for education and enlightenment. They are going to become Davidson men inevitably, and they finally acknowledge that the transition will be smoother if they go gently into the night. "Davidson: Love it or Leave It?" they ask themselves. They do not leave.

In quick order, they are buying into the Davidson myth on the installment plan, finding fresh corroboration for their endurance every day. They return to their hometowns three times a year, singing praises for their alma mater, while back on campus graduation looms near and the old uneasiness is suddenly a memory. I do not contend that these stages are typical of every member of the student body at Davidson. I contend only that they are typical. They characterize the bulk of the students who do not transfer from Davidson. What is my evidence for making these claims? The evidence cannot be defined in the spirit of the Criterion, but only so as soon as it can be flushed away at the next opportunity. Davidson in 1974 could be so much better than it is.

BRUCE read and understood the Statement of Purpose and the opening pages on academics in the College Catalog. We have to begin to correct the enormous gap that exists between our idealized notion of ourselves and our reality. This would not be a viable suggestion if there were only slim chances that we could begin to live up to the most fundamental promises of our College's Statement of Purpose. The suggestion is possible to undertake, and in many respects, it is imperative.

Many faculty members act as though they have never read the current college catalog. Their actions both inside and outside the classroom show that they do not acknowledge responsibility to anyone for their inconsistencies and personal preferences. I am not implying that they are hypocritical or insincere, since this would occasion a discrimination that is difficult to make. I am stating that their words and actions show no attention to the fundamental promises of our College’s Statement of Purpose. These pages are so fundamental to Davidson's identity that I do not believe that members of our community should dictate policies that distort and mock these principles. Students are not perfect, but they would be more nearly perfect if the most powerful men and women at Davidson, our faculty, would recognize that they are bound by a code of behavior that transcends their own. Those who cannot join the realm should resign. We have a right to expect better.

Rather than enumerate a list of specific case studies to illustrate my meaning, I choose to be as inclusive as possible. This newspaper could be filled with examples of situations and decisions that are made at Davidson that could never have occurred if we were operating according to the principles that are given so much fanfare. We fail if we are governed by suspicion rather than our own constantly professed Honor Code, and whenever we forget willfully that we are committed to the concept of community.

My suggestions for this transformation are so basic that I dread to see them in print. Since September of 1970, we have adopted a new social system, the Honor Code with the institution of self-scheduled exams, modified the athletic programs funding, and admitted women students. We have activated the Center for Honors Studies and established the Extended Studies concept. Taken together, these changes constitute a revolution in learning at Davidson, and already these changes are making constructive and sweeping changes in life at Davidson. But they were concrete changes that could be undertaken dramatically and absolutely. Their adoption was very nearly irrevocable, and they have worked out very nearly according to the course that was envisioned.

The next level of change is more abstract but equally extreme, more basic but equally challenging. We have to begin to live as if we have here. We fail to live up to our own standards, in simplest terms, whenever we behave as if we work at a giant university where there is no opportunity for interactivity between the students and the faculty, and whenever we are brusquely petty and small-minded. We fail when we fail to give attention to the individual and when we act as if the principles of the Christian religion—faith, hope, charity, and love—were simply abstract doctrines with no concrete application to reality whatever. We fail if we are governed by suspicion rather than our own constantly professed Honor Code, and whenever we forget willfully that we are committed to the concept of community. We fail when we forget that the worth of Davidson, in the long run, is the worth of the individuals who compose it. We probably will never conquer original sin, and we probably won't ever live up to our ideals. But we ought to try. We can do better.