: Thom Thom Nicoll

Some of the disillusioned students who become most dissatisfied and even bitter about their college experiences are among the most
apparently outstanding students.

Perhaps they see the situation more clearly, or feel unchallenged or unmoved, but at least one big reason for their
distress is that this campus is not large enough to support all that ego.

Eric Walker

Labor Party Plugs Capitalistic Line:

Times there are when thoughts turn apocalyptic: I see Davidson as a bump in several highways and caught in a
bigger web that may be moving to destruction.

Travel helps this mood; fresh scenes seep in as supplements to life in Davidson. Multitudes assemble down the stretches of
a highway. The moods of Davidson keep pounding at my door.

The loudest knock was a phone call. The Labor Party is alive and well (maybe) in the United States. In
Charlotte. They call often, seeking a fellow dweller who has worked with them in the fall.

But they will talk to anyone. At length. Wells of evangelical energy have been tapped by these masters of telephone
appeal with an innocent entrance: “Has anyone talked to you about the Labor Party?” I said, “I can’t say they
have,” and listened for prolonged minutes. I was baffled. Vote reports showered down. Heavy artillery shelled the “Rockefeller conspiracy.”

All a bit much for a single lesson. What I’ve been chewing is a specific ant ripped deep. Trying to
explain the activities of the academic recluse, I was curtly labeled “a block of wood.” Political deadwood, that is.

Remember, the Labor Party is not concerned with the Nobel Prize for literature in 1985, but whether or not people
will be eating in six months.

A famine stampede six months hence set my thoughts on Davidson and holocaust. I remember an autumn seminar on the
lawn in air fragile with the burden of a nuclear alert, when jets were equally prevalent in the sky. Insurance
won’t help.

If apocalypse crystallizes, will Davidson sense the conflagration? Will indignation finally arise when long-distance phone calls are mastered by forces
to raise prices in the most dramatic of ways? If we are serious about getting rid of economic units, we
must also come up with some method of getting rid of these.

The traditional solution to cartels, such as the oil cartel, is to create a surplus of production. Whenever a cartel
is faced with a surplus of production, we should create a way to manage it.

Yes, I was stung with “a block of wood.” I countered the charge with a deft burglary of metaphor and
offered that I was still green wood trying to age for a steadier blaze when I was eventually kindled. (Plug:
the image was stolen from a much purer source in Kathy Baragona’s second poem in the Spring ’74 Miscellany. Consult
it for a treat).

But he didn’t buy that. Fires perform better with seasoned wood.

Anyway, whether such problems are intrinsically good or bad, Davidson in shades of bumped highways and ambitious webs cannot ignore
the thunder.

The hermit fringe can’t ignore the forces to raise prices in the most dramatic of ways. If we are serious
about getting rid of economic units, we must also come up with some method of getting rid of these.

The traditional solution to cartels, such as the oil cartel, is to create a surplus of production. Whenever a cartel
is faced with a surplus of production, we should create a way to manage it.

This solution will mean attacking the most sacred of the economic units and thus will be extraordinarily difficult to accomplish.
The drawback: one of the new elements in the current inflation is the presence of large economic units that are
not native American.

I am referring specifically to the oil cartel and the newly born but unpublicized cartels that are growing up in
natural resources.
