The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

May 3, 1974

Comedy and Conspiracy

In the spring of the blooming library, we gathered to hear a remnant of a past that is growing hazy
- a past of anger and outrage, of armbands and marches. Dick Gregory came as a voice remembered as crying
“No!” before the excitement of dissent became the rage, and who continued to stand strong when the wave of opposition
died to a ripple. We trotted out to see a relic, but we heard something far more important. We were
told about today and tomorrow.

Entertainment is only a small part of an evening with Dick Gregory. We were hit with much to think about.
Wading through a lot of laughs and a lot of tantalizing hints of massive government conspiracy, we were reminded that
our lives are in the hands of lots of people who need careful eyes turned their way. We were reminded
that there is a great deal of good old honest people-to-people work and service that needs to be done. We
were reminded (or told for the first time) that we have lost something of the concern of those we emulate
with our hair.

For the most part, we took from these first counter-voices what pleased us: the clothes, the music, the dope, the
weekend morality—the trappings—and we ignored a good bit of backbone. We straighten out the part in the middle of our
heads, curse tangles, count coins, and plan summer to be an economic boom. And only a few are left who
know there even was a Davidson Peace Coalition, and who's that funny guy with the black tie and peace symbol?

We hoped Dick Gregory would tell a lot of good jokes, and faintly remembered something about hunger strikes. And we
were served a compliment that may take time to deserve. We “young folks” were told not how dull we have
become but how we are the hope of tomorrow. We're not afraid, the man says, but how many of us
quake when the grades hit the mail? We were kindly treated, but we can’t congratulate ourselves for a good while
yet.

An ideal was presented with Dick Gregory on stage. An ideal of a man who takes a good hard look
around him and really thinks (rightly or wrongly) about what he sees. A man who first gets to know a
neighborhood’s running paths and takes thoughtful care of himself. Moreover, a man who cares for us, hopes for us, and
stirs something anew in us as he tells us what we can do today and tomorrow. Not a relic from
a thunder-bright past, but a powerful slinger of electric bolts of conscience right now. We do indeed, as he says,
have a quiet job ahead of us.

No More Neutrality

Until this past week, the Vice-President had been keeping his distance from the White House with regard to the Watergate
issue. But now, Gerald Ford has begun to proclaim the innocence of the President, doing so before even finishing the
transcripts himself. Ford’s rationale for his sudden wholehearted belief in the President’s innocence is unclear.

We are very disappointed that the Vice-President would take a stand without thoroughly reviewing the evidence. To quote the Vice-President’s
own words, “All I am interested in is the evidence. The truth is the truth.” We feel that he might
take stock of the entire transcripts that Nixon has released, as well as keeping his options open with regard to
the tapes that have still not been accounted for.

Ford’s attitude toward the press at his recent news conference in Charlotte was not the most appropriate for a man
in his position. He appeared to be on the defensive, a position that he would not have had to experience
had he held to his neutral stand of some weeks past. But now Ford has claimed that the transcripts, still
unverified, completely clear the President of any and all involvement in the Watergate coverup, including “hush money” payments. It is
still too early for anyone to pronounce judgment on the President. We think Ford should reconsider his stand regarding the
innocence of the President. For that point is far from proven.

Faculty Guest Column

Ecology Decisions Face Mankind

By DAVID C. GRANT
Professor

Sometimes when I reflect on the state of the world, I experience a mixture of feelings that contains some elements
of a depressing nature. I am sure a part of this is a reflection of my attitude toward the human
species as a whole. With the annual rejuvenation process rapidly restoring a healthy green hue to the neighborhood, the temperature
high enough to elicit the onset of air conditioning, and the sky a brilliant blue, a certain amount of “all's
right with the world” sentiment is inevitable.world’: attitude is understandable. As long as things appear healthy in our immediate surroundings,
why go looking for trouble? We, as individuals and in our variously sized groupings, tend to think in short-range terms
and in narrow interests. There is another disquieting aspect to what I perceive as a general human attitude. This is
seen in our tendency to ignore a situation for as long as possible and then to overcompensate in our reaction
to it if, in fact, we react at all. I was concerned during the early sixties that mankind as a
species could apparently be totally unaware of its ecological impact on the rest of the world. I was even more
concerned during the early Earth Day activities and demonstrations because of the rate at which we were supposedly becoming aware
of our environmental responsibility, and the effect which the misuse of ecological theory might have on the long-range attitude of
the species Homo sapiens. Ecology became the fad which our worst fears had anticipated. When it was apparent that the
world was not going to disintegrate during a forty-eight hour period, the frequent response was a lethargy and disinterest more
profound than the original unenlightened state. In this context, I believe the “doom-monger” school of environmental activism may have done
more harm than good. The fact that nature exhibits a remarkable resilience and ability to recover from stress, coupled with
our present inability to accurately predict responses of living systems because of our inadequate understanding of large-scale natural systems, came
as no surprise to ecologists. It was, however, a justification for disenchantment with the hard realities of an increased environmental
responsibility on the part of a large number of people. With all due respect to Buckminster Fuller, our technology will
only be able to bail us out if we want it to and then only if we are willing to
make the necessary trade-offs. I view the Rocky River Research Project currently being established by the Center for Honors Studies
as a means of helping a large number of people better understand the options in one type of trade-off that
is an example of the type of hard decision-making that is going to be more prevalent in the future. The
project has other obvious benefits such as providing an opportunity for joint student-faculty, interdisciplinary research; building a sense of community
and common purpose among the students in special programs in the Honors Center; and offering one avenue for incorporating students
not currently in the Center in a phase of the Center's activities. In addition to these laudable goals, I am
hopeful that the study will provide much more. I am optimistic that the data to be collected over a two-year
period beginning next September will enable us to propose a plan of comprehensive water use for the Rocky River watershed.
Some may think this naive, but I feel that we have the capacity and opportunity during this current preparation and
the pilot project this summer to identify problems in the ecological, chemical, economic, and political spheres, and these problems can
be adequately studied during the course of the project. The reason that I am optimistic is that through the Center
we have students and faculty with interests and abilities in the areas necessary to not only analyze the river for
its current health but to probe the roots of the economic and political forces that have encouraged the development of
a problem of these proportions. It is only in this way that a proposal can be made that will have
the slightest chance of being accepted by the public. It should be apparent now that the completion of the Rocky
River Research Project will really be just the first step. To be useful, it will have to be acceptable to
the human species as an example of a new strategy with respect to the utilization of resources. It should also
be obvious that neither I nor the Center, nor the College is out head-hunting or looking for a scapegoat. I
personally have the feeling that I know where the greatest share of the blame lies. To paraphrase what was stated
several years ago by Pogo, “we have met the enemy and he is us.” One of the greatest problems that
faces the human species today is that of decision-making that involves consequences for the species as a whole. In a
small way, we will have the opportunity in this area to try to get at the crux of such a
situation. The easiest choice to make for a river system is to use it as an open sewer and, at
present, as consumers seeking the lowest cost goods, we make that choice. Should choices be made on the basis of
the greatest good for the greatest number right now and in the short run, or should things be done simply
because they are “right”? In either case, how do we decide what is “good” or “right”?
