Flaming Title

By C.A., Y.B., B.B., & M.T.

Let’s get the dirty dealings out of the way. There comes a time when C.A., Y.B., B.B., and M.T. must
pick one freshman hall out of the motley lot of frosh, and we have found one.

By virtue of the power invested in us by the Dread Dormamu and by the wonderful quote delivered to us
by Watts III Hall: Counselor Martha Royster, we have got us a good ’un folks.

Illy pegged for “bow-wow” ronal as “the kennel” or “the pound,” our squealing new sisters from third Watts will henceforth
be dubbed as and only as “The Sty.”

Best thing in bacon to hit D.C. since Uncle Heavy and the Pork Chop Revue, oink oink.

If you all got any complaints, you can go squeal, er, ah... complain to your hall counselors. Sorry Emelia, but
don’t ever make no more ultimatums no way no how.

Stumbling right along now, it’s that time of year when foolish flickerball starts once more. Play starts Wednesday, that is
two days ago from the day of this paper or two days after it has actually been written. Ah, the
wonders of modern communication.

We haven't really seen the rosters yet, but there are some teams upon whom you can bet your buns and
come out ahead.

Peyton Prospere is back for another year, proving his five-year devotion to flickerball. He leads SAE to what will probably
be another good season for the defending champs. Jud Cuttino and Rick Quimby will add speed and strength once again
to the talented E’s.

Then there are the SPE’s. Inside reports from the IMAC Security Council headed by full-fledged good guy and part-time pervert
C.A., say that the SPE’s may have pulled a boner in an early practice last Monday, violating specific IMAC rules
disallowing the use of IMAC fields by assholes before the season. (Section 4, parts S, P, and E, rule Q.)

Once again their most potent weapon will be the “early rush” (you'll hear about that frosh) that has been employed
over the last few years.

Wheat, barley, hay, alfalfa, what about Kappa Alpha? Well, what about ’em? Not much, says us. Over the past few
years, the trend of the KA’s has been to play well only when they are defending the south goal. They
don’t seem to function too well when their backs are facing Gettysburg.

We’d attack Pax too, but Y.B. doesn’t feel like adding his pen around that much.

(see IMAC, page 10)

Piedmont Bank® News

ELECTED AT BANK

DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT ADVISORY BOARD

Robert Amos, Ann Bode, and Rich Daniel are your new communication links with Davidson’s bank. They will funnel information about
the types of services you want, and how well Piedmont Bank is meeting your requirements.

Piedmont Bank hopes you will give your Student Advisory Board your ideas for ways the bank can serve you better.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY

MEMBER FDIC

PIEDMONT ANNOUNCES STUDENT MASTER CHARGE PROGRAM

Piedmont Bank welcomes student applications for the most widely honored bank credit card. See Russell Knox, Steve Shoe, or Jim
Holloman at the bank.

Master Charge lets you say “Charge it” at local and worldwide stores, airlines, motels, and many other establishments. It's good
identification when paying for purchases by check.
