WATCH THOSE WILDKITTENS

The girls’ basketball team practice their skills in their inter-squad game. Members of the team shown are Katherine Morton (shooting),
Laurie Dunn, Sally Bondurant, and Becka Stimson.

Scandling Lands Mat Program, ‘Study First’
By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

Trying to get wrestling team captain John Scandling to talk about himself is no easy matter. But getting the modest
142-pound Senior from Alexandria, Va. to talk about the wrestling team and other wrestlers is quite a bit easier.

“The wrestling program at Davidson is definitely designed for the student's welfare and studies always have precedence over practice,” commented
Scandling. “I feel that the team has been working a lot harder this year than in the past few years
and hopefully this extra hard work will show in the remainder of the season.”

As a reliable stalwart on the Wildcat wrestling squad, hard work is nothing new to the pre-varsity Scandling. He went
6-2 in dual meets and ranked fourth in the conference. Proving that his early success was no fluke, he wrestled
to a 7-1-1 record as a sophomore and retained his conference standing.

“I was disappointed last year because I got sick early in the season and wound up with a 1-2 record,”
recalls Scandling. “Wrestling is as much a mental sport as it is a physical sport. I have looked really poor
in some matches just because I was not in the right frame of mind.”

Scandling was by no means a novice to wrestling when he came to Davidson. His high school finished first in
the district and fifth in the state while John was wrestling as a Senior.

When asked about his improvement over the past four years, Scandling replied, “My wrestling really hasn’t improved a great deal.
I am a little stronger, a little more knowledgeable, and maybe a little more confident. But for the most part,
I think that I have plateaued out since high school.”

As a pre-med, Scandling has been forced to concentrate on academics and sometimes wrestling and class work have clashed. “For
the most part, my professors have been pretty sympathetic when I explain the problems. In fact, some of the professors
used to wrestle here themselves. Professors Kelton, Bevan, and Walls all wrestled while they were in college. Dr. Walls was
supposed to be a real terror from various stories that I have heard around the gym,” smiles Scandling.

Scandling’s future plans consist of going to medical school next year at the University of Virginia. “Next year will be
the first in eight years that I have not wrestled.”

Davidsonian January 25, 1974

Lady Wildcats Begin Season
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Asst. Managing Editor

Although the Davidson Wildkittens have only had one opponent and lack a true big woman, they have warmed the cockles
and stolen the hearts of their audience with an excellent and yet unique brand of basketball. The team has come
a long way under the tutelage of Joe Duncan and the determined coaching of Ann Holland.

“You could tell a big difference between this week and last week in the team. We must get to know
each other as players a little more though,” said spicy guard Sally Bondurant. “Something that surprised me,” she added, “was
the way that they gave us money. They gave us a thousand dollars as soon as it was sure that
we were a team. I had to sell doughnuts for seven years to get new uniforms in high school.”

Becoming a team was difficult and finding a coach a near impossibility. “I thought that you could get P.E. credit
for having played a varsity sport in high...school," said freshman backcourt player Laurie Dunn. "So I said I played basketball
in high school. They looked at me like they were saying 'So what?' I felt like a fool.

"Sally and I really wanted to have a team and we took Terry Holland seriously when he asked us if
we wanted to play. He wanted us to try out for the boys' Jr. Varsity so that he could get
some free publicity, I think."

Dunn and Bondurant proved to Terry Holland that there were a significant number of girls interested in forming a serious
and competitive team. As the story goes, Ann Holland was made coach and Joe Duncan was made advisor or assistant
coach.

"I don't think he had much choice about it," said Becka Stimson, another freshman basketballer. "Joe has a lot of
patience, and he is forced to use it with us."

"Joe has all the patience in the world," echoed Dunn.

"The team counts its unity and 'character' as its strong points. We care about each other out there and it
is only a matter of getting to know one another as teammates before we are a really good team," said
Katherine Morton, the team hotshot. According to Morton, the team's weakness is defense. "We do pretty well on offense," she
said in retrospect.

The Ladycats have been met with wide support from the student body. Very few girls' teams, even those that are
firmly established at their respective schools, have the firm audience support that the 'Catettes' have received.

"At first some people seemed to be laughing at us and not taking us seriously at all. We do not
want to be just a preliminary for the boys' games. We are serious and we would like to be considered
as such," preached Bondurant.

"I think that we have proven the skeptics wrong and have earned a little respect of our own," Morton added.
"This school is basketball-oriented and the new co-ed thing has helped us out a lot with our attendance. The real
test will be tonight when we play without being followed by the boys. If the people come out, we will
feel that we have the respect that we want," said Morton.

When pressed a little further, Morton added, "What do you want me to say, the guys come out because we
are pretty?"

The girls employ a 2-1-2 zone defense, designed to stop the easy shot. This defense is reliant on quickness which,
according to Dunn, is missing. "What we need ideally is a quick Wilt Chamberlain or a Jerry West," said Dunn.
"Preferably with a voice high enough and a length of the court trot interesting enough to keep 'that co-ed thing'
alive."

---

HATTIE'S HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30
IMPORTED BEER
Now Serving The "Hattie"
Last Week Of ____ Sport Unique Cage Activities

SALE
115 N. Main St.
Davidson, N. C.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:
Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer - North Carolina’s nationally recognized coastal camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and
New Bern. 27th year. Camps feature sailing, motorboating and more for students (men and women), coaches, and teachers who are
LOOKING FOR MORE than "just another summer job." Camps offer good salaries, room and board, plus the opportunity of sharing
in a meaningful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Write to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box
10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

All reductions below 50%
Everything must go.
Sale will end on Jan. 31st.
The Red Hanger and LUCK's Elephant Barn
Box 2408
892-7561
