Discrimination Taints Union Building Entrance Policy

To the Editor:

This letter is written as a purely personal reaction to the confused and shameful state of affairs at the College
Union. Recently, I have had occasion to observe that there is a basic inequity in the use of the College
Union building by non-college youths. Specifically, I am referring to the unofficial but nonetheless real policy of allowing professors' children
to use the facilities, while other youths, most notably blacks, are excluded.

Signs on the outside and inside of the building state that only college personnel (i.e., students, professors, and college employees)
are permitted to use the College Union. This policy is frequently enforced when a black youth from the town attempts
to use the building, but I have yet to see the offspring of a professor being turned away.

Recently, two professors' sons came to the Union asking for permission to use the building on a regular basis. They
argued that the "townies" are riffraff not fit to use the building, whereas the academic community shows a proper appreciation
and respect for the school’s property. This is pure and unadulterated hogwash. First of all, the school population has for
too long not considered itself part of the town of Davidson. They are just as much "townies" as the kids
from the academic community. They have a legitimate complaint that there is a dearth of facilities for the teenage youth,
both black and white, in this town. It should be the responsibility of the school, because of its dominant position
in the town, to provide such facilities. All youths, both college and non-college, should be permitted to use the building
in the absence of a separate youth center.

What this letter asks for is a measure of consistency. It is up to the Union whether or not it
wants to permit more lenient admission policies. However, if the Union decides on its current policy of exclusivity, let that
exclusion hold for ALL personnel, not just for those whose pedigree has an academic deficiency.

Pete Celentano '74
Davidson College

LAGOS

In the "5G storms" of course selection, Burts has his hands tied; an agitated student dissents, aiming for a better
system.

Long Entertains Ne Ultra Greenback

"It gives me great pleasure to an- It so happened that at lunch I was job of it, ushered things
nounce... er... I take that back, for it is with a great deal of sadness that I note the deaths
of...," drawled the prosperous-looking middle-aged man. The outgoing president of the Board of Visitors could be forgiven for having misspoken
himself as he addressed a luncheon audience because up until that moment, everything had been coming up roses as he
and others praised Davidson to the sky during the annual meeting of the Board of Visitors and the Ne Ultra
Society this past Friday.

This was about the only somber note sounded during the day which had been set aside to let some of
the more prominent benefactors of the College return to the campus to find out what the latest developments here were.
It was only fitting that those on the Board of Visitors, who are supposed to represent Davidson College in their
respective geographical and professional areas, and those in the Ne Ultra Society, who have bought themselves this honor by giving
$5000 or, preferably, more to the College, met in a combined meeting this year.a none too subtle recognition piece. Even
before the front-raising, things were behind schedule, so President Spencer, at the insistence of his majordomo Zach Long, had to
rush through quickly his address on “The State of the College.” As he ticked off the facts and figures about
Davidson's innovative and dynamic program, financial status, and about the 1500 people beating down the doors to join such a
fine institution, it must be admitted that despite its tendency to paper over some of the more negative aspects of
life at Davidson, the speech was pretty good.

What was unexpected was a strong emphasis near the end on “in loco parentis” (i.e., compulsory chapel and regulations against
drinking), for this is not the type of thing that would be pleasing to the ears of those, like these
people, who are conservative in outlook and proud of it.

I was seated across the table from a woman in her mid-40s who was from my home (temporary) state of
Hawaii, and this helped to break the ice. Like most of the people I talked with last Friday, she was
nice enough in a harmless sort of way. Not only did this woman live in Hawaii, but she also lived
in Charlotte and San Diego for part of the year. As it turns out, her house in Hawaii is used
for shooting scenes for “Hawaii Five-O” and for other series like “McCloud.” When she told me this, I knew which
house she was talking about since I had seen it on TV. A couple of us, doing our part to
worsen the contrived energy crisis by joyriding through neighborhoods, passed by it.

I quickly did some computations in my head to figure out what her or her doctor husband’s connection was to
Davidson, but as near as I could tell, there was none since he was not an alumnus and none of
their children attended Davidson. Zach, who was in charge of the day’s festivities, did a good job.

Pardon the pun, but the truth of the matter is that Duke Power's president, with predictable rhetoric, said the problem
of electric companies was with those “people who want this country to look like it did in the time of
the Indians, but they also want heated and air-conditioned homes.”

Dr. Charles Ratliff, during his days as a student here in the late 1950s, had a good understanding of the
subject. He begged the company to look at profits and what you should look at is the return on investment.
This disingenuous argument is but a small part of the larger issue. The real goal of the industry may be
to maximize profits, as suggested by Sen. Henry Jackson (D.-Wash.), whose Senate permanent subcommittee on investigations is now holding hearings
on the energy crisis.

One of the two token students on the panel, who shall remain anonymous except to say that he was not
John McElveen, asked Martin, “I see the regulations which ever since the time of Franklin Roosevelt had been gradually chipped
away at.” The politician that he is, Martin said that he too was deeply concerned about this issue and had
given it much thought. Evidently, he had not thought much beyond the need for an end to wage and price
controls.

To show that ignorant views are not the monopoly of college students on panels, one old codger mumbled about the
U.S. becoming “communistic” while another explained that the energy crisis was caused by Ralph Nader’s insistence that cars be made
safer.

Given up hope, the man told me we were in a
