Mary Hobbie Housing

What should my last column for THE DAVIDSONIAN be—at Davidson—what a...

In spite of reassurance (“The co-eds look like they tried to kiss a Wells-Fargo tank which was going West, while they were facing East.”), we sometimes doubt our place in the community. Hopefully, the acceptance of women students will be easier every year. The housing shortage has highlighted the problems of co-education. Putting women on 4th Belk is nice for us, but hard on the male students who are finding that all the best rooms on campus are now designated female housing. Giving women the advantage of housing may be the easiest administrative move, but it’s hardly fair. If I had known what co-education meant at Davidson, would I still have come? Yes. Davidson has not been a co-educational school for this two-year span, but Davidson...

Just asking me if the ERA bracelet I wear stands for Earned Run Average. After all, I'm just a woman. I’ve never understood what an Earned Run Average is. Slowly, the Davidson professors are learning to go ahead and tell their jokes to their classes even if there is (Gasp!) a woman in the classroom. At least, if they don’t want to tell the story, they may stop telling us, “I would give a rather graphic illustration at this point, but as we now have women students, I'll leave it to your imaginations.” Snicker, snicker. It’s just as well, I have a very good imagination. My illustration is probably better than the one the professors refused to tell. The intellectual put-downs have been relatively few. Where they have been given, they are given as one student to another, “Boy are you...”

Criminal (Continued from page 4)

...of crossword puzzles, I camp outside the professor’s office door. After two days, he comes to his office. “Oh, so it’s you again. When is that faculty guest column due?” he asks, pretending. “Fine, I'll have it first thing tomorrow.” Late the next afternoon, I find him typing in his office. “Oh, hi there. Just putting my name and pledge at the bottom,” he says. “Sorry I wasn’t in this morning, but our department was meeting for our weekly prayer session between classes.” “Boy, I'd say that is Christian commitment,” I say, having never before heard a prayer meeting used as an excuse. Some 30 minutes later, he hands me the page, hot off the Smith-Corona. “I think it’s a wonderful little column—not too hard for the students to understand, you know.” I thank him for the column, as the faculty guest column is, believe it or not, one of the most widely-read articles in THE DAVIDSONIAN. “Heh, heh. Just don’t ever try turning in one of your term papers three days late,” he admonishes. Realizing that I now must return the favor of owing the professor something, I get a real puzzled look on my face. “Say, could you tell me how to get back to the first floor?”

The Joy Of Eating & Hedonism, Hunger

So far, no one has volunteered to write this column next year. It really doesn’t take any particular skill beyond being able to occasionally lie without flinching. Eating is an experience common to all of us, and like the weather can be discussed by any moron. Higher minds talk about people, and great minds discuss ideas. Basically, the column has been a fun one to write, but I get so (expletive omitted) tired of people talking to me about nothing but food. To publicly answer the most popular question, “No, the restaurants do not give me free meals.” On the financial end, I have been aided by a research grant that has picked up the tabs on the forty-plus road trips I have taken since Spring Break. But now back to food. Eating for its own sake generates hedonism (and gout) faster than anything I can think of. The three meals plus snacks consumption schedule that most of us fall into tends to keep us from thinking about what it means to be able to eat. With no mention of malnutrition, nearly three-fourths of the world is perennially hungry. And among people who are closest to the source of our vegetables...

The Single Man By WOODY CONNETTE

...over twice the national average. This is not a remote situation. North Carolina is probably second only to Texas in the acuteness of the problem. But now back to eating. As a human ritual, mealtimes provide an inadvertent setting for social interaction and reflection that could never be intentionally assimilated on a massive scale. What all of this means for anyone assessing a restaurant is that the physical and social environment is primary, and the quality of the food relevant mainly to the extent that it lends itself to this environment. With this in mind, any would-be food critic needs only to be willing to eat out a few times each week. That can really get to be a drag, unless you are careful to always take some friends along. A strong analogy can be drawn between the behavior of the typical Davidson student visiting Mooresville and the...

...college, the frivolity of our movements, and what...Studs Terkel calls ‘‘the spirit and force of the instinct of workmanship.’’ Most food critics end up writing for the same audience that scans the society column looking for familiar names. The sort of restaurant reviews they write simply will not cut it here. At Davidson, the readership spread is much broader, ranging from truck to. You ain’t never seen one of my food columns under the glass beside a cash register! Sometimes it is hard to work irrelevant messages into the context of a review. Take, for instance, the cops down in precinct 2, who have it among themselves that we in North Main House are growing opium poppies in our garden. We do have a little pokeweed and several species of leguminosae, but the only opium I know of is about 13 miles out Concord Road. How do you relate that to Sally’s Grill in Mooresville? The Davidsonian May 10, 1974. Five stupid!” rather than sexist. Academic is through competition. has to do it on her/his own. I’m in no position to make a judgement on how good my education has been at Davidson. It could have been the worst education in the country, and I wouldn’t know it. “Do you feel educated?” No, besides what does the question mean? I feel like I know less than I’ve ever known. I went to class. I learned things. I learned how little I know. “What are you doing next year?” Who knows? Davidson may or may not have educated me. It certainly did not give me any vocational training, but I know it wouldn’t when I came. What has been of the greatest value to you at Davidson?” The people. The people. So, I have a lifetime ahead of me of not coming back to Davidson. What are the cliches that you're supposed to say when graduating? “It’s been real.” “I can’t believe it.” “Let’s keep in touch.” As a farewell from Davidson, I say (as a favor to Dave Bender), “Eat Shit, Hobbie.” Amen.

LETTERS
All letters must be signed and are subject to editing for length and to make corrections in spelling and grammar.

Faculty Guest Column Policies
(Continued from page 4)

Energy Policies

In terms of lives lost, on the other hand, the commission decided not to locate a nuclear plant too close to the large urban center of Philadelphia. What to believe about the safety aspects? Studies by the Ford Foundation and a Senate subcommittee have pointed out the grave dangers of radioactive materials in the hands of people who could use them for bomb construction and threats. The unsettled state of the world, with frequent violence, skyjackings, and kidnappings, does not inspire confidence in the proposals to greatly increase the availability of the lethal matter. For longer than man has had any culture, those 17,000 generations, the atomic wastes will persist into the future. There is no way to dispose of them adequately. In the burial vaults, they refuse to die. In the light of this grim heritage for future generations, we question the wisdom of the agencies making decisions for the world and its peoples. But what about the objective scientists who can tell us the facts in such matters? It all depends upon which scientific testimony it pleases one to accept, and the AEC chooses to believe the scientists who hold the views they do. Sweden elects to believe those who see a grave danger in fission reactors, declaring a moratorium on all such plants. The credibility gap is everywhere evident. Among the agents controlling developments in atomic energy are the power companies. Our local company is asking for higher rates, essentially to finance building nuclear plants. It projects future needs as doubling by the end of the century and sees no way of supplying electricity other than through fission plants. The position is clear, but the credibility of the company’s policy would be greater if much money were not spent in assuring the public that all will be well with our own friendly nuclear plants. An honest statement on business interests and calculated risks to the public would be more believable. As a footnote, we should observe that federal law gives power companies large relief from legal responsibility for nuclear accidents, a law without which they would not consider getting into the nuclear business. How credible are industry statements? Decisions are being made right now by a combination of governmental agencies and a sector of private business which will shape our future as nothing else probably ever has in world history. Energy policy is a matter of life and death, for us and our environment. The citizens are simply being told what is decided for them, and this citizen, for one, cannot believe that the decisions are wise and true. Credibility runs two ways, of course, and the government and industry must try to decide what public sentiments or utterances are believable. In the long run, the people express their beliefs through their actions, and in the matter of energy policy, their actions will tell the decision-makers much about public temper. If credence is to be given to expressions of public concern, there must be concomitant evidence of public words. In the end, the agents shaping our future will act as they see fit. Unless some effective protests are heard in places, we will be committed to a