Is Magnificent’s Attempts Drama, Doctrine Unity hours, Lindfors assumes and discards the characters of Portia in Shakespeare’s “Merchant of Venice,” and an exceedingly large number of cameo roles appear to Se abana. The Havidsanian, October 11, 1974.

“But a show which is more a dramatic collage than a play, women characters which she assumes and reassumes cannot proceed forever in its citations of quotable quotes from the mouths of women together by culling world literature present and past for moments which relate to the changing role of the woman in society.

On the stage, Lindfors is magnificent. The rigors of a two-hour one-woman show are handled effortlessly, and the difficulties of portraying such a large number of characters with smooth and flawless transition.

Still, it is hard to know where to stop. In the case of “I Am a Woman,” Lindfors and director-co-writer Paul Austin should have stopped after their first hour. The play is much too long.

At the end of the first act, one has been delighted by the stream of personalities portrayed by Lindfors, and by her immense versatility as an actress. But by the end of part two, a lot of time has only barely dragged by, and I for one felt the motion never ceases to smile, and preserves a sunny sense of wonder for her thoughts and words.

“The time with this work has been a time of total self-discovery.” On teaching (she has taught at Sarah Lawrence College and at the New School of Social Research) she again supplies her own more comfortable Mabel: “I would prefer to call it growing. I conduct workshops rather than classes.”

She is evidently excited by this aspect of her work. “It is only by doing that you learn. I try to induce a sense of independence in the actor. The artist deals with inner tools—more than anyone else.” She notes that these tools demand disciplined exercise. The college circuit “accepts standards that I desire.” She serves high compliments: the regional and college theatres are “the saving grace of American theatre today.”

As talk concludes, I cannot escape the impression that the theatre serves Lindfors as the psychiatrist’s couch as well as an outlet for disciplined artistic endeavor. Adopting her own distinctions, she has already trained her mind and body to a champion pitch, but is constantly working at training her soul. The stage is center ring for her training camp. “Fulfillment” is the touchstone of her talk. After the performance, I leave.the auditorium pondering the statement that has stuck with me all through the day and evening: “People feel good about being alive after seeing the performance.” Lindfors conveys joy, in her talk and in her craft. If her visions gloss and varnish the often messy business of living, of early living with the opposite sex, her spirit is nonetheless infectious.

Viveca Lindfors appeared in “I Am a Woman” on Oct. 8, in Love Auditorium. I do feel good and extend my thanks. But I am quickly pursued by the usual clouds. You see, there’s this woman...

“I Am a Woman” is a stage cavalcade of 36 women from Ibsen, Shakespeare, Plath, Brecht, Freud, Colette, Anais Nin, among others, by Suzanne Benton. I had been obligated to sit through the long second hour out of respect for the feminist movement rather than enjoyment of the program.

This brings to mind several other problems. Perhaps less significant was the lack of any kind of handbill either listing the characters, the plan of the presentation (Journeys: Present, Past, Future) or the existence of intermission periods. In this case, the failing was not the fault of Lindfors or her company, but of the sponsors of the program here at Davidson. This kind of sloppy handling of a performer, particularly in a situation where the character list is essential to any full appreciation of the play, should not be allowed to occur.

A more significant difficulty is related to the nature of the subject matter of the play itself. It should be recognized that not only is Viveca Lindfors using “I Am a Woman” as a vehicle to display her incontestable theatrical talents, but also as a mode of expressing a direct statement of the goals of the feminist movement. The problem is then that Lindfors is attempting to unite both drama and doctrine in a single presentation, and from the addition of these two elements to create entertainment.

However, as has been demonstrated for about 4000 years in literature throughout the world, the process of uniting drama and doctrine in a single entity invariably culminates in ritual, and ritual is not usually entertaining. Ritual as a unification of drama and doctrine unfortunately has only two directions to navigate. It can veer towards pure drama in which case it usually doesn’t offer very good doctrine. Or, on the other hand, it may move towards pure doctrine and become didacticism, which never makes good drama.

These are the warring elements which Viveca Lindfors and Paul Austin confront in their attempt to make “I Am a Woman” entertainment rather than strictly a feminist statement. In my opinion, it fares better than might be expected, due both to the vitality of Lindfors, and the expert technical handling of the whole production.

Particularly notable in the technical-artistic aspect of the presentation are the three highly suggestive sculptures, unobtrusive yet complexly significant props which are used, brown and white capes, a floppy hat, a gaudy wig, and a pair of large Hollywood-type glasses. With these few tools on the disc of her circular mottled drop cloth, Viveca Lindfors moves facilely through characters and scenes which are worlds apart.