__- October 4, 1974

The Davidsonian

Lack Of Foresight Brings On Student Housing Shortage

By CHUCK KENNON
Sports Editor

A possible student housing shortage at Davidson College has again been averted. Director of Student Housing Scotty Nichols said, “Everyone who wanted a room got one.” She added that there are currently six empty spaces for females and five for males. These spaces are due both to students “just out of the blue not returning” and lack of sufficient transfer students to fill the female spaces.

Nichols indicated that the completion of sixteen new spaces in the basement of Richardson and 24 in the former site of the bookstore in Belk eliminated fears of a possible shortage for the current school year. These 40 new beds give Davidson a total of 985 beds on campus. The current enrollment is 1217, according to Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. The difference is made up in off-campus arrangements, including 23 Davidson students at other institutions for the year.

But, if there is no crisis for the current academic year, the situation remains bleak for the 1975-76 year. Economic factors have made the building of the proposed townhouses, scheduled for occupancy in September 1975, extremely doubtful. Business Manager Robert Curry explained the situation: “Last spring we expected to pay interest rates of about 9 percent on the loan necessary for construction of the townhouses. But the economic picture altered greatly over the summer, and interest rates went up.

“In the Aug. 1 meeting of the Trustee Executive Committee, apprehension was expressed about going ahead as planned,” Curry said. “After the meeting, we received encouragement about obtaining better interest rates. Then we were told we couldn’t get those rates. So now we are postponing any plans for the townhouses until the Oct. 28 meeting of the housing committee.

“If the decision is made to go ahead with construction, the developers say they can still finish by the start of school next year,” Curry said. “We need $900,000 for the construction. Mutual Savings and Loan from Charlotte had the most favorable rate but the interest rates went up. No one will give us both an interest rate of less than 11 percent and a 100 percent loan. We need both,” Curry stated.

Were the townhouses built at the current rates, it would cost a student at least $900 per year to live there, Curry said. They were planned originally to cost $700-$750 per year. Nichols said that rent this year was $450 for a dorm room, but that it would likely rise to $500 for next year.

An alternative to the normal campus or off-campus living accommodations is the Symon, Ryles apartment complex in Davidson. The 72-unit complex is nearing completion, Nichols said. She added that rent would be near $1000 per year.

If the townhouses are not built for the next school year, a decision would have to be made to either hold at the present enrollment level or continue with expansion planned for the goal of 1500 students by 1980. When the decision to make Davidson College coed was approved in 1972, an increase of around 50 students per year was projected, with the final student body to have 1000 males and 500 females at the end of the decade.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. doesn’t view the delay of additional housing as a threat to this goal. “We would probably still go to around 1250 or even 1300 in the event that the townhouses are not built, and hold at that level for the foreseeable future,” Spencer explained. He is confident that the area could absorb this increase. “I have asked Mr. Curry to take a look at where we might find different housing. We could consider houses at the edge of the campus that the school owns.”

Spencer expressed hope that “in the next year or so” the economic situation will improve sufficiently to allow construction of the townhouses. He concluded, “Coeducation will be pretty much on schedule anyway.”

Duke Power Official Claims Public Needs Nuclear Power

By NED PARKER
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association (SGA) will conduct further fall elections on Tuesday, Oct. 8, from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. in both the Post Office and Chambers Lobby. The following are to be voted on:

1. Freshman Class Senators: (three to be elected by the freshman class, with top vote-getter becoming president of the freshman class.)
   - Glenn Ballard
   - Jim Brock
   - Roger Brown

2. Residence Hall Council: (one from each dormitory elected by dormitory residents.)
   - Cannon: Dan Hales
   - Holmes: Harden
   - Richardson: Earnie Church
   - Bill Sellars
   - Steve Justus

3. Referendum for approval of:
   a) Davidson College Constitution, as proposed by the Trustee Governance Committee
   b) SGA By-Laws (to replace current SGA Constitution and By-Laws) as proposed by the SGA Senate.

These documents, as approved, will be presented to the trustees for final approval on Oct. 25. Copies of both will be posted later this week. An Open End for discussion of both will be held Sunday evening at 8:30 in the Morrison Room.The only viable alternative energy source to replace dwindling petroleum supplies in a speech Tuesday night in Perkins Auditorium. He cited the growing demand for energy, especially to produce electric power, estimating that nuclear power would supply about 27 percent of the nation’s energy needs by the year 2000. “Today’s choice of fuel to meet growing needs is between coal and uranium,” Lee said. In discussing the environmental advantages of uranium over coal for use in new electric plants, Lee said, “Coal affects air quality and nuclear plants do not. Coal burning plants emit as much radiation to the environment as a nuclear plant in normal working condition,” Lee maintained.

When comparing the safety aspects of nuclear and coal plants, Lee recognized the dangers from a nuclear plant “spewing out its contents in a meltdown,” but discounted the likelihood of such an occurrence by citing the impeccable record of the 50 nuclear plants operating today: “There have been no radiation injuries so far either to employees or to members of the general public. In these plants, nuclear power production is a risk that society is willing to take in view of the price differences between alternate sources of energy.”

“A typical efficient coal plant produces 35 million cubic feet per year of ashes, whereas a nuclear plant typically produces only 200 cubic feet per year of waste.” When asked about the potential biological threat of the radioactive nuclear wastes, Lee replied that after 350 years, the spent nuclear waste products have “cooled down to a manageable capacity, according to government estimates.” After explaining that this used fuel is “carefully compressed into glass-like bricks and rods, whether in underground rock formations, concrete vaults, or rocketed to the sun,” he acknowledged the U.S. government had still not solved the issue of where this radioactive material should be stored.

One reactor waste product, Cesium-135, with a fission yield of six percent, has an estimated half-life of 20,000 years. “Economically speaking, existing nuclear plants show that they can produce electricity at a total cost 12 percent less than that of a conventional coal plant,” Lee said. “The major cost of a nuclear plant lies in construction. This would help avoid inflation in the future by reducing the need for future electricity price increases. Who benefits from nuclear power plants—the consumer,” said Lee.

Senate Approves SGA Anticipates Student Referendum
By ANDREW LAMAS
Senior News Editor

The Student Government Association (SGA) Senate approved the new SGA By-Laws Oct. 1. “The By-Laws had to be revamped for several reasons,” said SGA President Blain Butner. “Most importantly, the structure of the new College Constitution called for By-Laws changes,” Butner said. The College Constitution and SGA By-Laws called for several major changes involving campus committees and student representation. For example, students are given majority membership on the Religious Life Committee.

“The part of the By-Laws with which I’m most pleased is the Bill of Rights. It guarantees students the rights of fair evaluation by faculty members and rights of privacy concerning students’ academic records and private property,” Butner said. In addition, the College Constitution secures a seat for the SGA President at all trustees and faculty meetings. Butner predicted that within the next several years the SGA president and possibly other student officials will be allowed to participate at trustee and faculty meetings as voting members.

The By-Laws also set up a Student Court to try impeachment cases of any elected student officials. Students have the opportunity to learn more about the proposed By-Laws at a College Union Open End on Oct. 6. The By-Laws will be submitted to student referendum Oct. 8. “If the students approve the By-Laws, the trustees should make their decision by Oct. 25,” Butner said.

Davidsonian Staff
Executive Editors: MARK DEATON, BOB HOWELL
Managing Editors: LARRY MIMMS, MARK WILENSKY
Sports Editor: CHUCK KENNON
Editorial Consultants: DON BENSON, ERIC WALKER
Associate Editors: STEVE CANTERBURY, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP
Operations Manager: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Managing Editors: MATTHEW COVINGTON, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE
Senior News Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, BRUCE CORSER, ANDY LAMAS, RICHARD ROMEYN, SHEPHERD GO. IN WIDENHOUSE
Cartoonists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Assistant Business Manager: DAVID TRADER
Contributing Editors: JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, VINCE RABIL
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Photography Editor: LEON VENABLE
Typist: CAMILLE CATHEY
Contributors this week: Mark Gergen, Pete Goodman, Roger Grange, Steve Johnson, Bill Lloyd, Joe McMillan, Bob Milks, Van Williamson, Ned Parker, Charlie Slagle, Frank Steifel, Bob Wetzel

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.