October 18, 1974

The Davidsonian

Up n’ Coming

Friday, October 18
- All day: Herb Jackson Exhibit
- 4 p.m.: Soccer: The Citadel
- All weekend: Video Tape Program: Stowe Galleries
- Davidson Rathskeller: “Pigs vs. Females”
- 8:15 p.m.: Artist Series: Love Auditorium, Claude Kipnis-Mime

Saturday, October 19
- 8 p.m.: Football: Lenoir Rhyne (WDAV Broadcast)
- 8 & 10:30 p.m.: Popular Film: Love Auditorium, “A Clockwork Orange”

Monday, October 21
- All week: Video Tape Program: Rathskeller, “Jim Croce Concert”
- 8 p.m.: Film Series: Love Auditorium, “The Ascent Of Man”

Tuesday, October 22
- 7 p.m.: Debate
- 7:30 p.m.: Fine Film: “Claire’s Knee”

Thursday, October 24
- 10 a.m.: Worship Service, DCPC
- 7 p.m.: Coffee and Cokes, Eu Hall
- 8 p.m.: Movie: “Don Quixote,” Love Auditorium

Booters Excel In Win Over South Carolina
By FRANK STIEFEL
Staff Writer

Davidson’s soccer team, after a couple of disappointing ties and losses, seems to have righted themselves again. Last Friday, the
Cats traveled to Boone for a game against Appalachian. The game was not much of an offensive display, and the
result was a 0-0 tie. This left the booters with an 0-1-2 record for their last three games.

However, the team’s trip to Columbia for a Monday game against South Carolina proved to be a change in their
fortunes. The Cats controlled the game from the outset. With about 10 minutes to go in the first half, sophomore
Bob Giduz scored, with the assist going to D. C. Augustine. The half ended with Davidson holding a 1-0 lead.

Davidson got on the scoreboard quickly in the second half, with Billy Hawk taking a Jack Linard pass, and making
the score 2-0. The defense continued to deny S. C. a goal, as Charlie Slagle continued his stellar goal-tending. Halfway
through the second half, senior Joe Duncan got a goal, scoring on a feed by Paul Schleiffer.

The Cats got a momentary scare when potential All-American Tom Blackwood was shaken up when he ran into some benches
along the sidelines. However, it turned out to be nothing too serious. The game ended 3-0, Davidson. The Davidson defense,
which had been a little shaky, has appeared to solve its problems, with this shut-out being its second in a
row. The Cat’s next game is at 4 p.m. this afternoon as The Citadel travels to Davidson.

Polley Tours
(Continued from page 3)

...having to put up wooden posts.” Polley also visited various Egyptian ministries, such as the agricultural, social affairs, and cultural
ministries. He also had a tour of the Information Bureau from which all the news in Egypt is disseminated. Three
ministry officials worked with the Consortium throughout the group’s stay there. Consequently, Polley’s group had the opportunity to meet with
various “higher-up” officials.

As part of his religious research, Polley met with the Muslim Grand Sheik of Alazahar and the Pope of the
Coptic religion Shenuda III. He also saw mosques and other religious temples. The Consortium itself consisted of 26 people broken
into three and four-man teams specializing in a particular aspect of Egyptian life. Fred Gaige, former Director of International Education,
obtained a place for Polley in the Consortium. Most of the people involved were from Indiana although there was one
research team from New York. “I was the only one from North Carolina,” said Polley.

Classics Abroad
(Continued from page 1)

...it hasn’t gone down,” said French. “For the course, we start our travels in Greece, go to Crete, and then
come back through Greece as we trace the chronology of the course. The course terminates in southern France. Sadly, as
you go west in Europe, inflation gets worse. France is extremely expensive.

Indians
(Continued from page 7)

We leave you with this quotation from the Chronicles of Nebrachua: “Lo it came to pass the Orangetine man and
DR. Q ordered that he be banished.” May the Dread Lage hammer never catch you in bed with his girlfriend
or you coeds, may the Unspeakable Umar never catch...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Later. By CARLYLE SHERRILL Staff Writer

Davidson lost its third consecutive game of the season last Saturday to Wofford by a score of 49-7. Time and
again Wofford found gaping holes in the Wildcat defense, scoring five of the rare times they had the ball. Wofford
had 35 first downs while racking up 381 yards on the ground and 177 yards through the air.

Meanwhile, Davidson was compiling 17 first downs, with many of those coming on penalties, while gaining 74 yards on the
ground and 177 yards passing. Davidson’s offense didn’t get untracked until the third quarter when they drove deep into Wofford
territory. The drive was stalled, but the Wildcat defense was able to contain Wofford for three plays. The ensuing Wofford
kick was poor and Davidson took over with excellent field position. With the ball inside the Wofford 40, quarterback David
Harper directed another Davidson drive which culminated in a seven-yard touchdown pass from Harper to Chris Harris.

Outdoor art show Sat. Oct. 26 of HOMECOMING weekend. On the lawn at Bashfuls, potters, weavers, jewelers, painters, and media
of all types on display all day. Give a handcrafted gift this Christmas. Bashfuls, Ltd. Main Street

The remainder of the game was played, for the most part, between the 20-yard lines. Joel Golmont led a drive
to the Wofford 10-yard line in the fourth quarter with relief help from Gary Overstreet. But the drive was stalled
by penalties and the Wildcats failed to score.

After the game, Coach Farrell said, “We had prepared well but the execution wasn’t there. The players aren’t doing in
the game what they did in practice.” Farrell went on to explain that he thought it was due to frustration
rather than lack of desire. “When one man doesn’t do his job on defense then the man next to him
would try to help him out. When this happens, we have two men instead of just one who is not
playing his position correctly.”

“Personnel wise, there was no reason that we should have been that far out of the Wofford game,” he added.
“It was a combination of our having a great deal of breakdowns on defense and Wofford coming out with a
good game plan against us and executing it well.”

Offensively Farrell saw some improvement over previous games, particularly in pass blocking, but it is not yet moving the football
satisfactorily. In regard to the season as a whole, Farrell said, “I thought we would have been further along at
this point.” But he refuses to make any excuses about the inept play thus far. He added that “there is
no question about their enthusiasm and desire to win.”

Farrell calls this week’s opponent, Lenoir Rhyne, “impressive.” “They have a tendency to get very emotional after a big play,
and the whole team becomes very explosive.”

Radio Authorized Dealer Service and Sales MOORESVILLE Whatever you want, we’ve got 170 N. Main Nat E. Smith eGlasses Adjusted
eSunglasses

ARMY—NAVY STORE Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus Camping Equipment Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C. Ph. 664-5118

Mitchem Opticians Fast & Accurate Service Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician ePrescriptions Filled 206 N. Main eGlasses Repaired Ph. 663-3942 Mooresville

HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri

---
