Twelve January 18, 1974

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, January 18
All week Art Exhibit: Dennis Olsen Stowe Gallery
4 p.m. Comedy Workshop: Morrison Room
8 p.m. Frank Speiser: “In The Words Of Lenny Bruce” Chambers Night Club

Saturday, January 19
10 a.m. N.C. PIRG Martin Re

Sunday, January 20
7 p.m. Freshmen Self Selection Chambers Banquet
7 p.m. Christian Fellowship Morrison

Monday, January 21
10 a.m. U.S. Marine Corps Union Lobby
2 p.m. Ski Club Bazaar Morrison Room
10 p.m. Grievance Committee
10 p.m. N.C. PIRG Local Board Meeting

Tuesday, January 22
10 a.m.
4 p.m.
7 p.m.

Wednesday, January 23
8:15 p.m. Drama Production: “Spoon River Anthology”

Thursday, January 24
2:15 p.m. Drama Production: Hodson Hall - “Spoon River Anthology”

Friday, January 25
10 a.m. Ne Ultra Society and Phi Hall Board Of Visitors
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium “Dirty Harry”

Officials

(Continued from page 1)
called ‘unrestricted money from the Queens-Davidson fund,’ but also noted that the use of this money would be dependent upon
priorities set by the Board of Trustees.

A committee is now at work preparing a report on building priorities. After further discussion with people on campus, the
committee will present its recommendations to the trustees at their February meeting.

Both Spencer and Cornell agreed that the time element involved would not be a short one. “It takes at least
two years to build a new building and about six months to renovate an old one,” they said.

Spencer further pointed out that the foundation decision as to the use of the money would be crucial, and Cornell
felt that the money could be raised to match the foundation grant.

(Continued from page 3)
They asked me things about the lenses in the telescope, about the combination of convex and concave lenses and I
was able to give good answers,” he said.

Kyle will study either at Merton College or at University College of Oxford University. All of the Rhodes Scholarship recipients
in the country will meet in early October in New York and will travel together by boat to England.

Sophomore Charley insured the win with a stifling Catawba’s chance for a comeback.

Coach Parker evaluated the team’s performance by saying, “I was pleased with the team’s overall performance. However, I was disappointed
with a few individual matches.”

Catawba was the first dual meet for Davidson since the Christmas holidays but the team’s performance was viewed favorably by
Scandling. “We have really worked since we have been back and I think that it showed tonight,” he commented.

The Wildcat matmen travel to Lexington, Va. Jan. 26, to compete in a tournament with VMI, Washington and Lee, and
UNC-Chapel Hill.

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry

Jewelers of trusted reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.

Whatever you want, we've got

ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
170 N. Main
Mooresville, N.C.

MOOR LANES BOWLING
W. C. 115, MOORESVILLE
SNACK BAR POOL TABLES PIN-BALL MACHINES
Special Daytime Prices
550 N. Main

First Union National.

DAVIDSON

PEPPY’S PIZZA BARN
SPAGHETTI

This Monday
All You Can Eat
$1.40
(must have Davidson I.D.)

Family Sized Pizza
PEPPY’S
Ph. 663-2792
Clip This Coupon
Mooresville
