May 3, 1974

WINDOWS OF THE SOUL
John White, Davidson student, studies the works of a fellow student at the Student Art Show. (Photo by Goodman)

The Joy Of Eating, Hattie's Famous

Hattie’s has changed more in four years than Davidson ever will. Unlike Grim's and the Main Street collection, no one
has dared write about Hattie’s because it means so many different things depending on who you are. I remember freshman
year spring and French 137 meeting in the back corner booth, the pinball machine with arthritic flippers, breaking a hundred
thousand on it, and raising my grade from a C to a C-plus. The year before that, after the basketball
team had beaten South Carolina, the whole school had spontaneously flocked to Hattie’s to be jubilant together. When the one
o'clock southbound freight came through it was pelted with beer cans, prompting a call from the Southern Railway the next
morning.

This year, the whole interior has been changed to a more hoity-toity decor. Still recognizable under the veneer are the
same booths that once made people sit stiffly straight in the old Wildcat Den. A new line of sandwiches and
pizzas was also installed, and these provide the excuse for this column. The sandwiches, while not "the best of New
York delicatessentia," are certainly the best in the area. Even Ron Scott eats there occasionally. Since I am broke (hey,
Mom?), I was unable to sample the pizza. Reports are, it is now being displayed in Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

Karoly Makk’s "Love" (a Hungarian film made in 1971 and released in this country in 1973) establishes its main mood
in a beautifully edited opening segment. An old lady, who is later identified only as "Mama," lies in her bed,
converses, and moves to a seat before the window where she watches the rain outside and falls asleep. Interspersed with
this are flittering glimpses of her stream of consciousness—memories from the past, a book of poetry (Goethe?), romantic visions of
her son in a turn-of-the-century-ish New York, and very briefly a nightmare image of her son in a political prison,
which is where he really is. The spirit of Lila Darvas’ beautiful performance as "Mama" pervades the entire film. Although
"Mama" disappears about midway through the film, we continually hope to see her again and do not learn that she
has died until the end.

Grumblingly, I'll admit that the Oscars have done me a favor for once. They have called to my attention a
worthwhile film which I had overlooked, and by giving it an award they have gotten it some new bookings and
given me another chance to see it. Originally, I ignored John G. Avildsen's "Save the Tiger" because his last two,
"Guess What We Learned in School Today" and "Cry Uncle," were absolute dogs and because Jack Lemmon hadn’t given a
good performance in years. "Save the Tiger" is something of a comeback for both Avildsen and Lemmon. Avildsen’s direction is
greasy-slick as always, but he had gotten major performances from Jack Lemmon and Jack Gilford (as he did from Peter
Boyle in "Joe") plus several fine performances from his supporting cast. One scene between Lemmon and...

reel to reel reviews— "Love"

Gyorgy Sivo’s precise editing delicately interlaces the film with its characters’ thoughts and sometimes with the actions of the son
who is being talked about but lives in a different setting for most of the movie. Adapted by Tibor Dery
from two of his own novellas, "Love" is about three good people, three people whom their creators seem to respect.
They are not goody-goody people—they have their problems and weaknesses—but they also have an ennobling quality, their love for one
another. Makk's direction, like that of most Hungarian filmmakers, is more academic and intelligent than talented and instinctual. However, he
uses his intelligence to bend the form of his film into the service of the content, and his content is
very strong. Everything in the film seems to have been done in exactly the right way. "Mama" tells the story
of how at the age of nine...She prayed to God that it would stop raining the next day so she
could wear her new dress to a picnic. The rain did not stop until the day after that, and she
stopped going to church because she was not interested in a God who was not of practical use. I thought,
"How similar this is to the religious history of so many of us!" The director and his writers and actors
create the illusion of letting us watch "real" lives as they are in the process of being lived. Some things
in the movie I did not understand at all, but I know that the director did and that he was
telling me about them. "Love" is full of what Wordsworth might recognize as the still, quiet music of humanity. Sadness,
however, is not among its moods. In some ways, the film is almost too refined for its own good.

BY JOE MCMILLAN

'Save The Tiger'

Gilford is especially successful. It takes place late at night in a deserted office building, and both men are drunk
and talking about shattered illusions. Gilford’s performance is at its best and Lemmon's is in and out of its best.
For the trenchant success of its ensemble acting, this scene reminds me of "I’ll Cry Tomorrow," which reminds me of
"Diabolique," which reminds me of "Day of Wrath." I mean this fourth-level comparison with the Dreyer film as a very
strong compliment. Of course, the Oscars cannot do anything totally right. Although they managed to nominate both Lemmon and Gilford,
they gave an award to Lemmon and not one to Gilford, which is exactly the opposite of what they should
have done considering the competition.

An advertisement for the film contains an excellent plot summary: "Juggle the books. Set fire to the factory. Supply women
to the clients. Harry Stoner will do anything to get one more season." However, this does not quite do justice
to the full range of the screenplay’s cliched boldness. The film also has a confrontation scene between the establishment and
the Hippies, the former being represented by Stoner and the latter by a token Hippie fantasy figure poorly played by
Laurie Heineman. Perhaps the Oscars were attracted to Shagan's screenplay by its pretentiousness. With this screenplay, "Save the Tiger" could
easily become harshly offensive, but the film manages to get some energy out of its vulgarity and a great deal
of sympathy from its performances.

BY JOE MCMILLAN

However, the cheese is soft and gooey, blending nicely with the crust, unlike the Village Inn where the whole top
peels off like a big scab. The only fair way to describe the character of the place is to give
you a few snatches of overheard conversations from the premises:

Noah, Grizzard, Van, Spacey, and her sister tried to compose an "Ode to Hattie’s": "There's no place like it, alright?
There’s nothing like it in Charlotte. There's no place to dance in Davidson. There's the night the Easter Bunny came
here and had to be carried out." And so it went.

(After exams) "I thought we would go down to Columbus to see her folks and then go to Florida for
a couple of days, and then come back by Six Flags, Stone Mountain, and Carowinds...."

"Everybody thinks just because you put a new front end on it and have the wheel way out there that
it’s a chop. That ain't a chop. You gotta have molding and everything else. Now, mine ain't a full chop
yet."

C.A. and Y.B. come here a lot. So do Katy and Mary. Boy, Thursday nights here are wild; no one
has Friday classes. Johnson City ain't shit. There's one road there with just three or four bars and that's all.

"Hey, did you see Houchen’s article? I swear, it’s the best thing that's ever been written in that paper."

"Johnson City’s a lot like Gastonia (?), and it’s the only place in the mountains that's not dry."

"Isn't the new library over there ugly?"

What all this comes down to is that everybody thinks they know everything there is about Hattie’s, but no one
really does. As a Davidson institution, seniors should take their parents there during commencement weekend rather than trucking them off
to Charlotte for a semi-cosmopolitan steak.
