COROS ER OTST ROOF KT PRK FTES ISP LT eee ewes

There are not Pete Celentano

Irish-Cat Matchup Dictates Roundball Pro

As we get closer to that fateful Saturday in February when Davidson meets third-ranked Irish Notre Dame, the talk has been more and more of a possible upset. Anyone who has seen Notre Dame the last two weeks surely knows that such an upset, while pleasant to think about, would be quite a feat. In order to provide the reader with a personnel guide, and the expert with a bone of contention, here is a highly subjective comparison of the two squads.

First, Notre Dame.

The Guards:
Gary Brokaw - A smooth operator with a basketful of moves, but a tendency to commit turnovers, Brokaw is almost impossible to stop when he’s hot. He has a tendency to make the impossible shots, but miss the 15 footers. Not a high-percentage shooter from the outside, he penetrates well. If Brokaw gets off to a fast start and hits the outside shots early, it could be a long night for the Wildcats.

Dwight Clay - An erratic ballplayer, Clay operates best in pressure situations. He doesn’t score a lot of points, but he can be tough in the final minutes. If it gets close towards the end, look for the Irish to go to Clay on the point or baseline, or Shumate up the middle.

The Forwards:
Gary Novak - The forgotten man of the Irish starting five, Novak is a workmanlike forward who'll dig for the loose balls and go for the garbage basket. While a steady performer, it is doubtful whether his effectiveness, or lack of it, will drastically alter the outcome of the game.

Adrian Dantley - Next to Shumate, Dantley has the best raw talent on the Notre Dame team. A spectacular forward, he explodes along the baseline with strength and leaping ability to score over taller men. Only a freshman, he is already averaging 15 points a game. When he's on, there are few in the country who can stay with him.

The Center:
John Shumate - There are not enough superlatives to describe the center play of Shumate. He is the heart of the Irish, and if Notre Dame is to be stopped, Shumate is going to have to make an early departure. He is not as dominating as Walton is, but he is a hustling pivotman whose shot is deadly from twelve feet on in. Shumate is going to have to make an early departure if Davidson's hopes of an upset are to be realized.

The Bench:
Notre Dame's bench, while not as strong as their starting five, is nevertheless adequate. Bill Paterno, a freshman hotshot from New Jersey, is an adequate forward with a good outside touch. Ray Martin is a guard who occasionally spells both Clay and Brokaw. The Irish don’t lose much when they substitute Paterno for Novak, but Martin does not have the moves of either Brokaw or Clay. Beyond these two, the Irish have little in the way of bench strength. If Shumate gets in early foul trouble, they could be in trouble.

For Davidson

The Guards:
Mike Sorrentino - Mike has been very hot of late, fulfilling all early-season expectations and more. Hitting the outside shot, making the passes and playing tough defense, Mike is at present providing the kind of floor generalship the team lacked in the early going. However, against Notre Dame he has to put everything together and try to contain the thrusts of Brokaw and/or Clay.

Jay Powell - Jay has been a pleasant surprise for the Wildcats, his defensive quickness and bold outside shooting taking up some of the slack left by the injury to John Falconi. However, Powell suffers...Occasional defensive lapses, which could be fatal if they come too frequently against the opportunistic Irish guards.

The Forwards:
- Greg Dunn: A swing forward or guard, Dunn is capable of unbelievable offensive moves, yet he blows hot and cold. Defensively, it’s doubtful whether he can stay with the taller Novak or quicker Dantley. He’s simply going to have to outscore his man if Davidson is to stay close.
- Larry Horowitz: A hustling, if unartistic forward, Horowitz’s play closely resembles that of Dunn. While the Wildcats have done well in his absence, they have to miss his scoring and often-overlooked defensive skills. At present, it is unlikely that “the Falcon” can be one hundred percent effective. If he isn’t, the chances of an upset will be mighty dim.

The Centers:
Collectively or individually, neither Sheldon Parker nor Eppa Rixey is a match for the taller, stronger, quicker Shumate. Though they are improving rapidly, neither has played up to his potential so far and there is little likelihood that this will change. Both are going to have to try to draw Shumate into early foul trouble. How successful they are may determine whether the game is a battle or a rout.

The Bench:
Davidson has eight potential starters to Notre Dame's six. The edge here is a slight one to the Wildcats. Tom Verlin, having performed brilliantly of late, adds an added dimension of versatility to the Davidson attack. If Notre Dame gets in serious foul trouble early, start looking for a surprise.

Summary:
On paper, it doesn’t look very close. Davidson makes fewer turnovers at the guards and has an edge in shooting percentage both from the field and at the foul line. Add to this the fact that Davidson has been very hot since the New Year, and you might expect a close game. However, the Irish are deceptive. While not a good percentage team, they nevertheless have a big edge in the forecourt due to the presence of Shumate and Dantley. With Brokaw firing from 15 feet and Shumate getting the tip-ins, it looks like the Wildcats are going to be in for a long, physically demanding game. The pick here is Notre Dame by 12, but if you're betting...

Lennis (Continued from page 8)
Frank shows an interest in...

173 N. Main St. 663-4513 Mooresville, N.C.

The Davidsonian February 1, 1974
Katie Early reaches in and attempts to steal a rebound from two opposing players.

Whatever you want, we've got:
ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C. 170 N. Main

Are your interests bizarre? Does a typewriter turn you on? The Davidsonian needs business staffers.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:
Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer - North Carolina’s nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. 27th year. Camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship plus all usual camping activities. Openings for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who are looking for more than “just another summer job.” We seek highly qualified, dedicated, and enthusiastic staff members with the ability to instruct in one of the camp’s programs, exemplary character, and experience. Offer good salaries, room and board, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and rewarding experience. Openings for NURSES (RN). Camp dates: June 10 - August 23. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.