Two May 10, 1974

Senate Report

P.E. Plan Approved, Laundry Reviewed

By STEVE BELL
News Editor

The Senate's last meeting of the year was held Tuesday night, and it was another 2½ hour marathon—the second in a month. In major business, the Senate recommended several changes in the physical education program and heard from administrators on the future of the laundry.

The proposals for change in P.E. were brought to the Senate by Mark Rabil, chairman of the SGA’s ad hoc committee on athletics, which has been investigating the issue for several weeks. Following surprisingly little discussion, the Senate approved Rabil’s proposals by a vote of 12-1, with one abstention.

Rabil called for a revision in the physical education requirements, from proficiency in four individual sports and one team sport, to proficiency in three individual sports and two team sports. Rabil also suggested that participation in intramural sports should satisfy these requirements. Moreover, Rabil proposed that “...some credit be given for passing PE courses, and that PE classes be scheduled and registered for with other courses...”

Rabil emphasized, “It is not the purpose of the P.E. requirement to ensure that Davidson students are ‘physically fit,’ but that they have developed the basic skills in several sports. These changes are in support of that goal.”

College Business Manager Robert Currie reported to the Senate on some of the changes in the laundry’s operation that should be expected in the near future. According to Currie, as a result of the complaints of discrimination voiced by many of the students recently, the compulsory laundry fee will be extended to all unmarried female students, as well as the unmarried male students, beginning in the school year 1975-76. Currie said that it would be difficult, but the administration hopes to maintain the laundry fee at $130 per year for the next two years. After that, the service—and the fee—will be reduced somewhat, and beginning in 1978, the laundry service will become voluntary. As the laundry winds down, Currie said that its staff will need to be reduced. However, he hopes that jobs will be found elsewhere within the college for all who are laid off.

In other business, the Senate approved a change in the SGA by-laws that marries the Residence Hall Council to the Dorm Social Council. The merger was strongly advocated by John Guthrie as a measure to improve the efficiency of the student organizations. Guthrie complained of ‘inefficiency’ in the RHC, of which he is chairman. He reported that the membership of the RHC voted 4-3 for the merger. However, the DSC voted 6-1 against the merger. The SGA Constitution and By-Law Committee refused to recommend the merger. However, the senators as a whole approved it 12-5, with one abstention.

Summer School

This year, Davidson College will offer two three-week sessions of summer school, beginning on Monday, June 17. The second term will begin on Monday, July 8. During the first term, Davidson students will be eligible to attend the following classes: Black-White Relations, The Science of Astronomy, and Independent Study in American Literature. During the second term, the following courses will be offered: Shakespeare, Creative Writing, Social Deviance, War and Conscience, and Negro Voices in American Literature.

Davidson Notes

Togetherness Achieved

The editors and staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN wish to extend their congratulations to Kenny Eiler and Pete Celentano for their efforts toward making last Saturday's Town Day the enjoyable success that it was. Their planning and thoughtfulness made clear to members of the town and the college alike, that what so many have suggested, bringing these groups together, can indeed be done.

President Opens House

All students are invited to the President's home for an exam break on Monday, May 13 between 9 and 10:30 p.m. Take a study break and visit the Spencers. Refreshments will be served.

Freshmen Can Write

Michael Fisher and Robert Olmstead tied for first place in competition for the R. Windley Hall Freshman Writing Award. Selected by the vote of the members of the English Department, Fisher and Olmstead were chosen from the group of freshmen who submitted poetry and prose to the literary magazine “Inklings,” an annual publication of the Freshman Class. Tia Long was the runner-up.

Will Haul Off Junk—Free

The Children’s Schoolhouse Attic Sale and Fair is looking for usable anythings as donations. Clothing, household goods, records, plants, etc. are wanted. Anyone with donations should call Austra Gaige, 892-1856, or see Fred Gaige, Chambers 111. The fair will be held Saturday, May 19 on the Village Green.

Prices Rise

Next year the cost of a year’s worth of meal tickets at ARA Slater will be $710. This increase is a direct result of the...Minimum wage hike signed into effect by President Nixon. The minimum has been $1.60 an hour, but on May 1 of this year, the minimum rose to $1.90, and by Jan. 1, 1975, the rate will again increase to $2.00 an hour. The current cost of a year's board at ARA is $675.

Prices Fall
Those of us returning next year can face the prospect of a new Xerox machine charging only 5 cents per copy—a 50 percent price decrease in an era of spiraling costs. According to Robert J. Stephenson, Director of Personnel and Administrative Services, the new machine will also be faster and produce improved copies.

Doares Blasts Gaige’s JYA Treatment
To the Editor:
Criticisms of the college administration are among the most marketable items at Davidson, THE DAVIDSONIAN’s demand for which is joyfully supplied by a copious influx of letters and articles from indignant students. Usually, this writer is sufficiently ignorant of administrative policy and procedure that he refrains from exposing his opinions to public ridicule. However, railing privately against the Office of International Education has only engendered frustration concerning an area of the administration of which he is not ignorant. These remarks are based on the experiences of a candidate for the Junior Year Abroad program to Marburg, Germany.

With the appointment of Fred Gaige to fill Paul Fisher's position as Director of International Education, friends of foreign study at Davidson hoped that he would be one to breathe some enthusiasm into the lagging JYA programs. (Only three Davidson students had been coaxed into the Germany program during Fisher's last year here.) Everyone deserves a chance, particularly someone in a new position, but soon the disorder in the OIE became obviously inordinate. The only attempt at publicity for the programs in the fall was two poorly organized meetings on conference day, the first of which Gaige did not attend, and the second of which he did attend but said nothing in the least that was informative or enticing about the programs.

Actual JYA application forms were weeks late of the promised date of availability merely because the OIE failed to type them up. Travel arrangements, usually complete in March or early April, have only been finalized this week by Dr. Gaige. At a request for information about Eurail train passes, the OIE secretary's response was, "That's not the thing this department would handle. I don't know where you would get information like that.” If one cannot obtain such information in the OIE, what office should provide it? The registrar? The comptroller? The infirmary? And our applications to the German university, which we had thought to have been mailed to Marburg when we completed them some three weeks before, were discovered in the OIE just last week, unmailed simply because of neglect.

The list of specific crimes could go on for pages, but these are all only manifestations of a pervading incompetence and lackadaisicalness in the Office of International Education. Fred Gaige is leaving Davidson this summer, moving on to greater things. For the present, members of the faculty, Winkler, Yoder, and Meeks, are attempting to salvage the Germany and France programs from the wreckage left in the wake of Gaige’s havoc. But what about the future of the Office of International Education and Junior Year Abroad?

To deny the need for an Office of International Education is foolish and undiscerning. Those members of the faculty and administration who would like to see the OIE abandoned and JYA abolished have succumbed to Davidson’s infamous tendency toward inflexibility in academic matters and have failed to understand the importance of foreign study programs at this school.

(See OIE, page 3)