Twelve May 3, 1974

Friday, May 3
9 a.m. Art Exhibit
Student Show

Saturday, May 4

Sunday, May 5

Up ‘n’ Coming

7:30 a.m. Medical College
Admissions Test
Chambers Banquet Hall
1 p.m. Town Day
Village Green
2 p.m. Rugby: Davidson vs. Washington & Lee
7 p.m. Film: "Sounder"
Love Auditorium
9:30 p.m. Dance: Village Green
Ex-Soul Review

4 p.m. Voice Recital: Hodson Hall
Roger Bayleu
6:30 p.m. Fellowship of Christian Athletes
Morrison Room
7 p.m. Davidson Christian Fellowship
Martin Room

Stowe Galleries

... Win Ends Track Season

(Continued from page 10)
looked to Paul. He ran in the hurdles, the sprints, long jump, triple jump, and on occasion high jump. Paul
was the third highest scorer for the season.

Lautensack was the most consistent scorer in the distances. He ran all four distance races sometime during the season and
had a personal best time in the mile steeplechase, a 9:58.

Along with Lautensack were Coty Pinckney, Jessie Smith, Buck Farrow, Rick Deal, Fred Borch, and Ricky Bell. All of these
people will be back next season, so the distance team will again be strong.

Greg Love and Bob Trumbo were strong contenders in the hurdles. Love would be in contention for the conference title
except he pulled a hamstring.

... Gregory Blames CIA, DIA

(Continued from page 1)

other countries around the world. Before describing each news item, Gregory asked to see how many people in the audience
had ever heard anything about it. “How many of you have ever heard of the Bank Secrecy Act?” The paltry
response of a few people raising their hands each time attested to the unreasonable obscurity he was trying to expose.

Although very little that Gregory said was pleasing or hopeful, it was all enlightening because what he said was seemingly
backed by a number of factual sources. Citing these sources (articles, books, lectures, and reports by ‘researchers,’ aided by Gregory),
he stated that the CIA is controlling this country.

“The CIA and the DIA, that’s the Defense Intelligence Agency, are vying for control of this country. The CIA is
siding with Eastern money and the DIA with the Pentagon,” said Gregory.

“The whole reason all you hear about today is the Watergate cover-up is because the CIA doesn’t want you to
know what’s really going down in this country. Why do you think that you don’t ever hear about what the
CIA is doing?”

Gregory continued to incriminate the CIA suggestively.

He said that Cronkite personally deleted Johnson’s statement from his newscast. “But the CIA can’t get me because I tell
the whole truth,” Gregory said.

His talk was spiced with his own feelings and beliefs, but the message was clear: every American citizen should find
out what’s going on for himself. He complimented the young audience and called them “a breath of fresh air.”

Gregory charged the audience to look at the country and to straighten it out. “The faith and destiny of the
country depend on you young people, not your old, lazy, degenerate parents who are afraid.”

Gregory ended his talk by suggesting a reading list that will help to alert readers to the sicknesses in the
country that he had been describing. The address to write for this list is Dick Gregory, Health, P.O. Box 266,
Plymouth, Massachusetts 02360.

PIEDMONT BANK & TRUST COMPANY
112 South Main Street
MEMBER FDIC

OPEN:
Mon. - Fri.
9 - 5:30

... of scoring this coming weekend as the Cats go to Richmond for the Southern Conference Meet.

“Obviously I’m pleased with the season and the team’s performance. We won four meets this year, that is a big
improvement. We won handily in the Davidson Relays,” said Coach Martin.

“We have our new track.”

The 440 has been held down by Derry Harper, Mark Postore, Tim Wallen, and Jim Douglas. Walter Crouch receives the
Johnson & Johnson Award for the season. He tore ligaments in his ankle and then cracked a vertebra in his
back. He is well now and will be on the 440 Relay team in the Conference meet.

Martin said we will not be contenders this year, but we have several individuals who could do well. He cited
Connors, Shankweiler, and the 440 Relay team of Fleming, Kittrell, Crouch, and Connors as having the best chances.

Piedmont Appliances
HOWARD & BRAWLEY
664-2138 / 664-2838
MOORESVILLE, N.C. 28115
Used sofa, chairs, end tables, ranges, and refrigerators.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

DAVIDSON
