EDITOR-ELECT MARK DEATON

Board, N.C. Fellows.

The Davidsonian, December 13, 1974

Deaton To Headline Staff As DAVIDSONIAN Editor

By MICHAEL TANNER
Editor-in-Chief

The SGA Elections Board announced this week that Mark Deaton will become the new Editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN. Currently Executive Editor of the paper, Deaton was unopposed for the editor position. Deaton is a member of the Honors College and was a recipient of the E. Grier Martin Award for excellence in journalism as a freshman reporter. He is presently a member of the College Union ICA Board.

The editor-elect will assume his duties the first week after exams. Deaton views the role of THE DAVIDSONIAN as a means of informing and entertaining as well as shaping the opinions of its readers. “Through a dedication to more comprehensive news coverage, investigative reporting, and strong editorial leadership, THE DAVIDSONIAN can better serve the college community by introducing and clarifying issues and urging support for positive changes,” said Deaton. “We must couple our capacity for informative reporting with a stronger forum for the opinions of various sectors of the college community. We need to strengthen our entertainment appeal through more imaginative writing in our features and sports sections, and better incorporate art and photography.”

Self Study Examines Changes

By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

Early in the 1973-74 academic year, the Faculty of Davidson College elected a Steering Committee to organize a Self-Study in accordance with the requirements set by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. That committee appointed ten additional committees to prepare reports on various aspects of the college.

Committee Chairman J. Harris Proctor stated, “The Self-Study report, which is available on reserve in the library, examines the conditions and changes over the past ten years at Davidson.” A visiting committee from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools will be at Davidson next week, and the Self-Study report will serve as background information for their subsequent report. Members of this visiting committee include officials from such institutions as Furman University, Clemson University, Sweet Briar College, and Radford.

“The main purpose of such self-study programs is to ensure the necessity of accreditation for institutions. But this self-study report, undertaken every 10 years, is even more important in terms of changes in virtually all aspects of the workings at Davidson.” A review of the last report, done in 1965, shows such recommendations as a new library, a new curriculum, and the elimination of the mandatory ROTC.

“Many of the self-study committees last year had some students as members, and one committee was comprised entirely of students,” stated Dr. Proctor. In regard to academics, several observations were made concerning grades, the most important being the stricter standards and hence lower grade-point averages as compared with other schools. According to the report, “in terms of graduate schools, the combination of Davidson’s high standards of admission and of grading undoubtedly does its students some disservice.” But the committee further states “that a considerably larger number of professional schools to which Davidson students are admitted still recognize and allow for the fact that B’s are harder to get here than at most institutions.”

“The committee believes that maintaining Davidson’s traditional grading standards will best serve its students, including those aimed at graduate and professional schools.” In terms of enrollment, the report projects that by 1981, Davidson will have one thousand male students and five hundred female students. Additional housing has been recommended to deal with this increase. Other recommendations made by the academic committee include one that a schedule be rotated in some manner.

Senate Funds Pool Table, Votes Down Easter Holiday

By MARK GERGEN
Staff Writer

The SGA met Tuesday night, passing resolutions giving funds to the YMCA Coffee Shop and a group of cheerleaders. A resolution to ask for a two-day Easter holiday was narrowly defeated. Junior Gary Stewart proposed that the SGA appropriate $350 for a pool table in the YMCA Coffee Shop. This will be...a youth activity center where high school students will be able to get together after school. Stewart stated that the Lions Club has offered moral support and suggestions on how to keep the Coffee Shop from polarizing between blacks and whites. Both ATO and Emanon have offered assistance. The Coffee Shop is allowed to use the facilities. The Senate approved the resolution 18-2-2.

The Senate approved $50 to help finance a trip for himself and other cheerleaders to the basketball game, which was later increased to $100, and the resolution passed 11-8-2. Vice President John Guthrie introduced a resolution stating: "Be it resolved that the Senate petitions the college administration to revise the 1975-76 calendar to include a two-day Easter holiday on Friday, Apr. 16 and Monday, Apr. 19, 1978." An amendment that these two days be made up at the end of the year was proposed, then withdrawn. The motion failed 10-10-2.

The Humanities program will always be scheduled during the busiest hours of the day. In regard to faculty tenure, the Faculty and Research Committee voted five to three on the recommendation to eliminate the requirement that the candidate be an active church member or a Christian. The Buildings and Grounds Committee set several goals for primary concern, including improved Chemistry facilities, more adequate facilities for the fine arts, and facilities for the physical education program.

The information and recommendations listed here are just a few that have been brought out by the Self-Study report. According to Proctor, "The Davidson College Self-Study Report is the cooperative effort of many professors, students, and employees, and it involved countless man-hours of work. I strongly recommend it to students to gain a better understanding of the workings at Davidson."

The Davidsonian has suffered from the lack of realization by its editors and staff that we are a weekly rather than a daily paper. Our potential strengths lie in planning and publishing an artistic presentation of issues thoroughly investigated and examined. At present, The Davidsonian is run by the staff rather than the staff running The Davidsonian. We’ve got to turn that process around. Deaton plans to reorganize the staff of the paper to even the workloads and improve efficiency in publishing.

“I’m hoping the individual editors of the news, features, and sports departments will feel a greater sense of responsibility for the quality of journalism on their pages. We’ve got to be better editors, more prepared in our approach to publishing responsible journalism. We have a definite need to recruit more students to work on the paper. We will all be readjusting to some extent to our work with the paper, and now is the best time for us to incorporate new students in Davidsonian activities. We are looking for a more imaginative approach to journalism which we hope will make working for the paper as well as reading it a more interesting and exciting process,” Deaton said.

Deaton will begin immediately preparing to name a new staff, and he encouraged all students interested in working on the paper during the next year to talk with him about a staff position. “We will be exploring new designs in graphics to make page layouts more appealing to the eye and ensure that the copy is more easily read. We want to combine the strengths in graphics of the American underground radical press with better, more responsible writing,” said Deaton.

N.C. Fellows
The Davidson Chapter of the North Carolina Fellows is now receiving applications from members of the Class of 1978 for entrance into the Fellows program. Applications are available from Professor of Psychology John D. Kelton and should be returned to him no later than Tuesday, Dec. 17. Kelton and present members of the North Carolina Fellows will conduct an Open End at 8 p.m. Tuesday, December 17, in the Morrison Room of the College Union to discuss the program and to answer any questions.