Che “THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” - Marshall
McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

FOUR Ss 27, 1974

Trustees’ Power Play

It is possible that in February the Board of Trustees of Davidson College will decide whether to approve the construction
of a 50,000 watt FM station to be run by Davidson College. As a professional operation, the roles of participation
and direction by students will be greatly changed. Although promises have been made to assure a large student involvement, the
question of educational services for both the students and the Charlotte area seem on the periphery. The college is making
its decision on a monetary rather than educational basis.

Such a new station will indeed offer professional training to a select group of students. There is also a strong
need for educational programming and a classical station in the Charlotte area. Unfortunately, the construction of a new station will
possibly necessitate an FCC ruling that the college may not run two FM stations in the same community.

The alternative to reducing WDAV to AM carrier current is undesirable. There will be a resultant loss in quality of
signal and possibly programming without FCC standards. Successful participation by the students in another carrier current station is by no
means assured. We fear such a new station would decrease student participation on either station. The purely classical, promotional format
of the new station would be an alienating one for many students.

Obviously, a new station provides Davidson College with a means to grapple with UNCC and CPCC for the attention and
money of the Charlotte community. We support a Davidson effort to fulfill the educational needs of this area. Weighing the
needs of the Charlotte community for a classical station against the present forum for student views is a very difficult
task. Yet the decision to construct a new station is not being based on these questions. Unless the cost is
prohibitive, Davidson College will decide to create a new FM station. We feel this is a sadly superficial approach toward
our area’s growth and fulfillment. We are deeply concerned that WDAV may die as a vital part of student life
if it is relegated to a return to carrier current.

Tenants Of Inhumanity

Legally the college position is solid. Director of Legal Services of Mecklenburg County Terry Roche pointed out that in order
to take legal action, a willing tenant plaintiff had to be found. However, all of the tenants claimed, “The college
treats us real good.” Chances of finding a tenant plaintiff range from slim to none. Furthermore, many of the problems
with these dwellings were not severe enough to file suit over. Since the tenants often didn’t report violations, the college
legally is not bound to repair.

The question is one of a higher level. Can a Christian institution, such as Davidson purports to be, allow such
a situation to exist? While the legal advantage is to the college, the moral issue remains. Whether the college chooses
to be or not, Davidson operates as a landlord. Not only is there a responsibility to those who pay nominal
rent, but as the Christian owner of the property lived upon, there has to be some responsibility to those living
on Ridge Road, Withers Farm, and in Brady’s Alley.

Bob Currie explained that just this week a maintenance man was at one of the rented homes to bring. Somehow
he didn’t repair or report the broken gutter downspout and armrails on the steps. Is it only our responsibility to
see that toilets flush? At one college-owned house, not only do the toilets not flush, but the college has not
even seen a responsibility to provide water.

While Spencer issues policy statements condemning “substandard housing,” the situation in black Davidson is one of exactly that.

Opens Windows

By HANSFORD M. EPES
Professor Of German

Okay, Deaton: in the middle of orientation, you have the nerve to ask me to write a Faculty Guest Column
by midnight of that evening. Since, like any other type, I was still writing syllabi (syllabuses?) and trying in the...Here
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Absence of a Wildcat Handbook to memorize, at least, the names of my freshman advisees, I said, with my usual
politeness, buzz off. (I probably said something a bit different from that, but this is a family newspaper.)

I saw Deaton again last Saturday, over at the Ada Jenkins School. As usual, he appeared to have just told
himself a joke which he was unwilling to share. As usual, he seemed to be engaged in a project in
which he knew what to do, but was best at getting others to do it.

“Here, sir, knead this putty,” said Deaton.

“I don’t really need the putty,” said I, always willing to offer a pun which would embarrass the intelligence of
a ten-year-old. Deaton laughed, and I kneaded the putty, forming it into string-like shapes. Being naturally gifted in discovering what
needs to be done, I took my carefully formed strings to a young black man who was putting a new
window pane into a window. The new pane fit, it seemed, and I suggested that my putty strings might seal
it on the outside. In a voice rather akin to that which I use to remind second-term German students that
“ich ist” really isn’t a very apt phrase, or to remind second-year humanities students that Adam Smith (the REAL Adam
Smith) may not be the greatest thinker of the twentieth century, I was informed that a good seal required putty
inside and out. I left my putty available for those who knew how to use it.

Meanwhile, Deaton had absented himself to open a second-floor window. As far as I know, he’s still trying to do
it. I’m glad he’s trying to open a window, even if he never quite makes it. I’m glad because the
scene was the repairing of Ada Jenkins School as a community center—and because a lot of windows needed to be
replaced, so that a lot of windows could be opened.

Ada Jenkins School, or community center, or New Schoolhouse of the Arts, represents the efforts of a lot of people—even
me and Deaton—to make a community where there is none. It'll take a while. Somewhere else in this issue, I
gather, Steve Canterbury will call the college to task for its callous treatment of its black employees. But within the
college, there are efforts—and they may be the wrong ones—to try to bring together two communities into one. In the
process, I learned how to fix a broken window. That is known, to those fond of pentasyllabic words, as experiential
learning. To those of us more fond of simple words, it is known as learning from one another.

I wish I could report that the effort of last Saturday to sign up every kid in the community for
exposure to one of the arts was successful. It wasn’t. Not every window was fixed either.

But I hope a lot more of you will find out where Ada Jenkins is, and will learn how to
knead putty—whether you need to or not.

Because Deaton is still learning how to open a window. So should we all.

The day before he was confronted with the facts presented on page 1, Spencer assured DAVIDSONIAN reporters, “We are by
no means a slum-landlord.” It is disturbing to hear statements like Currie’s: “The college is not responsible for people who
don’t pay rent.” As an institution purporting to echo the Christian ideals, the college is poorly served by this attitude.
It is one of neglect and inhumanity to fellow men, rather than one of charity and caring.

Even more disturbing was Spencer’s refusal to set the college policy as one of favoring the individuals’ problems over the
nuisance to the college that these problems cause. Perhaps most disturbing of all was the attitude of the tenants themselves.
Looking out through broken doors and windows, they cautioned, “You’re not going to stir up any trouble now, are you?”
Have these people been so stripped of basic human dignity that they can no longer differentiate between good and bad
treatment?

The college is responsible morally. The issue is clear and simple. The existing situation is abhorrent and must be corrected
immediately.
