Evolution Of Davidson, Part II: Student Contributions To College Governance

By TODD EADES

Belatedly, the sixties came to Davidson, bringing that decade’s unrest and student activism. Those days are gone; perhaps because the war is over and the spirit of the times is now a lack of social concern. Perhaps the advent of coeducation had something to do with it. The college itself, after four years of radical change and turmoil, is nearing the end of its catharsis with the new governance system in sight. Behind are administrative expansion, the implementation of the “new” social system, innovation in the educational program, the revolt of the faculty, a momentous decision to begin coeducation, and the desubsidization of football.

The change in the old order caused or uncovered enormous difficulties; common, ordinary housekeeping problems were inflamed in the superheated atmosphere. Student government prospered in these years and attempted to increase its influence by aligning itself with either the administration or the faculty against the other, according to the circumstances. Although usually allied with the faculty against administration, the marriage was of convenience and not of love. Students reacted to both the content and the method of formulating administrative initiatives. Seemingly inspired by General Forrest, the administration attempted to make fait accompli a general policy. While reduced to reaction and remonstrance against the administration, student government watched its initiatives cast aside by the faculty who, consumed by governance politics, seemed willing to hold many issues in abeyance until relief was obtained.

Secrecy was the standard policy of deliberation for both communities. Gone are the days when 12 senior members of Omicron Delta Kappa walked into a faculty meeting “to demonstrate our opposition to meetings of the faculty which are not open to all segments of the college community” in January 1971. Asked shortly after election, “What do you consider the greatest challenge to the SGA?” Rhodes Scholar and SGA President (1971) Danny Clodfelter replied, “To translate the basis of student influence from amateur lobbying to direct participation in decisions affecting student life: academic, social, and financial.” At the end of his presidency, Clodfelter wrote, “The real accomplishment was in forcing administrators and faculty to recognize that the student viewpoint had to receive consideration before any decision could be made.”

In between and intertwined with power politics, the Residence Hall Council declared that the dorms were open 24 hours to visitors, causing an uproar but changing nothing. The referendum on Rennie Davis passed: he spoke, no riots ensued, and alumni continued to send money. Student government also developed the concept of providing services for students such as the present exam system, lengthened gym hours, the Course Evaluation Handbook, financial backing of a used bookstore, the Grievance Committee, Advisory Councils, and the hiring of supplemental psychological counseling for the second time.

The question in student government today is what will happen in governance. From the student point of view, the Constitution changes their relative position only slightly. Student membership on faculty committees has worked well, and the principle is continued by students on the advisory councils, including two areas - admissions and budget - hitherto excluded. The SGA President has access to Faculty and Trustee meetings. Students are guaranteed a voice in deliberation, but seldom in decision-making. Psychologist Meredith Hall was hired by the SGA to strengthen the college counseling program after the college would not rehire him for 1971-72.Fee was revised to allow upperclassmen to eat where they wished, and the social system did not collapse. The trustees were asked to reconsider the religious requirement for faculty tenure, and the desubsidization of football was the objective of an SGA offensive. It is interesting to note that the positions of student government on major issues, such as the social system, coeducation, and subsidized football were eventually reached by the college. Students have exerted influence in two other, more productive ways. One is through the SGA President, who is often body and soul of student government. Reorganization to separate the President from the Senate in some fashion may increase his effectiveness. But there is still a more limiting factor, seen by a student observer three years ago and still true today: that the President has only charismatic authority. Concessions are all that can be hoped for.

On some faculty committees, students have had more experience than faculty or administration members. It is true that students often take contradictory positions on the same general issue through the years, but so does the administration. And the faculty is particularly adept at playing the ends against the middle. That students are relatively ignorant or overly emotional is a peculiar argument, for it is my understanding that a Senate filibuster contains as much logic as most faculty meetings. (“He may be a son of a bitch, but he’s our son of a bitch.”)

“The disruption and mutual distrust of the past four years in college governance will hopefully end, but so, I fear, will much-needed change as thermidor sets in and complacency becomes established once more.”

The other method employs the student advantages of numbers and strategic position. Petitions demonstrating student wishes can be eventful, if not abused. A recurrence in student activism would be significant. But apathy melting into acceptance of the status quo is widespread, yet I hear many lament, “I want to do something, but no one’s asked me.” No government can be stronger than its people: if student government has failed, then so have we all. In any case, the success or failure of student government depends in part upon our elders. It is they who control access to the information which is vital to knowledgeable and rational discussion. In some cases, they can conveniently fail to listen, or listening, fail to act. The prevailing traditional bias against student participation in college affairs still survives, but the adage that students are transitory simply cannot.

Since governance is a continuing process, many issues may directly affect students before they “transit,” and they certainly ought to know their interests. If the issue concerns the future, and here the transient argument is most damnable, students are assumed to be unconcerned about those who will follow, or the assumption is made that the basic interests of tomorrow’s students are substantially different from the basic interests of today’s students. The future of student government at Davidson depends upon responsible and knowledgeable student leaders and faculty and administration acceptance and support of the student role as a real contributor to the college community. The disruption and mutual distrust of the past four years in college governance will hopefully end, but so, I fear, will much-needed change as thermidor sets in and complacency becomes established once more.

You should have been here when.

The presidents of the Student Government Association, 1970-74
CLODFELTER BUTNER