Eight April 26, 1974 The Davidsonian

The Evolution Of Davidson, Part V

Agapeing Whole Through Davidson

By MILES WARD

The Birds of Appetite: A Meditation

I
Now why is there metaphysics and why is there not nothing? Time seems irrefutable, that is why; the past four
lapses are instances of certainty, the turning points mount up. Yet the years swim, tiny epistemological fishes into my ken,
I swallow one after another; they descend gnawing my insides. Soon I will be water. Fish and animals will drink
me and I will be whole again and freed at last.

II
What the world is. Sets of arbitrary contingencies make up the world. They overlap in levels which trace out patterns
and form structure and superstructures for language, myth and reason. All things are representable by numbers except the things we
see. These, like ourselves, are locked into time. I am WAVY gravy of the Hog Farm. Promulgate or Die.

III
The world image as Davidson

A man journeyed to Piedmont in order to seek the advice of Davidson, the holiest of all ninth century teachers
and the greatest sage of the medieval era. "Holy one," the man asked, "where can I find peace?" The teacher
surveyed him and said, "Quick, look behind you!" The man turned around and Davidson smashed him in the back of
the head with a candlestick. "Is that peaceful enough for you?" he chuckled.

IV
The Evolution of Davidson, a parable

Each culture, past or present, simple or complex, represents in given collectivity, a particular solution to the problems of reflective
life, a realized form of adaptation of the universal potential of reflective consciousness to a given environment. Each culture is
the present stage of a long and complex evolution, psychic and morphological. Adaptation is the total structure of the life
of the group and the definite within the historical determination of time and place. The future of an evolving culture
or society has an indeterminate number of possibilities, but its progressive realization continually limits and orients the subsequent configuration of
the possible. Within our neosphere, this much is clear.

V
We were here four years. Others were not. We did not know them, not very well anyway. Should this worry
us? Perhaps. As much as those we did know? How has our language changed? It may not matter to anyone
before us. But will its changing speak well of us in the years to come? Only time can tell.

VI
Progress, yes, you are an old man woman now. Generations honor you, fostering mother. When I lift my eyes from
the book everything will be great and nothing strange. Out there is what I live in here. It is all
endless except that I weave myself into it. Out there the earth goes out beyond itself; it surrounds the whole
sky. We have all read a long time; it is too much perhaps. I do not look, but I know
the sun has come out, again.

VII
Through the years a man peoples a space with imagesof kingdoms, oceans, rooms, stars, mountains, houses, ships, and people. Before
his death, he discovers that the winding labyrinth of lives traces the image of his own face. Once I dreamed
all four years in one night. The past gets fuzzy at the edges and then all I can see is
what is taking place now. Two questions remain. Do you believe in God? And if so, how much do you
think he weighs? If this is truth, where is my waitress? Cecil Burney too will die someday. Perhaps here at
his campus. At some Alumni Weekend decades hence, walking slowly about fitting fragments of memory together once more, he will
be bitten by a viper reposing in the shadows. He will pass mournfully, giving up the ghost only as he
recalls that “Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth; it sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of
history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole of life. Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth and
would set no limits to the adventures of the mind.” Cruelly, Davidson puts an end to one of its own.
It is a subtle concept, but in the end, I think he understands.

In the silence of four years, your fingers move through 70 years of life, and if every well has run
dry. What I have seen convinces me that students don't learn as much as they can, but probably as much
as is good for them. Convinces me that while “the faculty is the College,” it takes money to support this
and it comes from somewhere else. I have found more things to do than anyone ever could. But this discovery
is not new or particularly important to anyone except me. With other people, I find that very human differences are
one of the facts of life.

I decide that four years isn't very long; it doesn’t compare with 70. It's easier to make it, though, realizing
that one of the important problems is whether to add one or two cups of brandy to the sangria. And
things like that. None of us do as much as we can, even as much as we should. I don’t
feel guilty, but I don't feel like giving up either. Instead, I look out someplace, look it over and settle
in. Maybe move on. Like bandits waiting for a train. Seems that way somehow. And that’s not really too bad.

Baudelaire once said that life is a hospital in which every patient is obsessed with changing beds. This applies to
love, in another sense. Everyone is looking for love, yet is dissatisfied with his love partner. It is confusing because
nothing is what it seems to be, and whatever it tends to become, it ceases to be, for everything is
ever-changing. The act of love itself. Denied, it is frustration. Fulfilled, it becomes emptiness. Nature is a budget of contradictions.
One makes it so. That to me is an untranslatable truth.
