Approximately 200 yards behind a home occupied by a staff member renting from the college, this junk pile exists. The old gym floor, empty Coke and Sprite cans, and boxes with labels addressed to Davidson College make up the rat-infested heap.

(Staff photo by Venable)

The Davidsonian September 27, 1974

Three

Spencer, Currie Regret Slum Conditions:

By MARK WILENSKY and JOYCE STAHMANN

Copyright 1974

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and Business Manager Robert A. Currie expressed regret at the conditions existing in college-owned housing.

Spencer issued a policy statement in February of this year specifically directing Currie to take all steps necessary to ensure that Davidson College does not operate “substandard housing.” Currie claimed that to his knowledge all college housing was at least up to livable standards.

“The college is not responsible for people who don’t pay rent,” Currie said. “We’d like them to leave, but they won’t go. We refused to let anyone else move in, but we can’t kick them out, can we?”

Currie explained that in Brady’s Alley, the daughter of the man who sold the house to the college is living there rent-free until she can find other quarters. The people on Ridge Road were in the house when the college bought it and asked to remain temporarily.

Currie also pointed out that the same conditions apply to the people on Withers Farm. When and if these people move, the houses will be razed, not rented.

“The squatters have been a problem for us,” Spencer said. “Do you call the sheriff and put them out, or what? We are trying to look at the human side. We must ask ourselves, ‘is it just?’”

Spencer added, “We have to decide if and to whom the college should provide free housing, and if it is fair to charge some employees more than others.”

When asked if they realized that the house on Withers Farm has no water, both Spencer and Currie said they were not too familiar with the particular conditions in that area.

Of the moral obligations of Davidson College in view of the dilapidation of the various houses, both men claimed to recognize that a commitment existed, although they would not elaborate.

“We will not operate substandard housing,” Spencer reiterated. “If we have it now, it’s simply because of the humane judgment to listen to these people and let them stay. I don’t justify the conditions of the houses.”

It was pointed out to Spencer that the state of some rented homes is little better.

“I’ve called the mayor and asked him to start the procedure for all college-owned housing to be inspected. After they are inspected, we’ll either fix them or tear them down.” This request was made Monday.

Spencer claimed he had no knowledge as to when the houses were last inspected. Concerning those employees of Davidson College whose housing might be condemned, Spencer said, “We can’t guarantee them a place to live, but we will help them try to find one.”

Spencer explained that the reason the college wouldn’t sell land to tenants on Ridge Road desiring to buy was that this land is a prime site for future college expansion. Currie said that it was not economically feasible for the college to build an addition to the house.

“The house wasn’t bought for residential purposes in the first place,” Currie said. Both he and Spencer claimed ignorance of the fact that eight people lived in the three-room house, although Currie recalled the request for more room.

“Ideally,” said Spencer, “we’d like to relocate these people to Lakeside. We are willing to sell the lots we have there to staff people.”

“It’s doubtful that a family with only one breadwinner could afford Lakeside,” Spencer admitted. Both Currie and Spencer asserted that most employees were not the sole breadwinners in their families.

Currie explained that the college has a program designed to provide people recruited by the college with reasonable mortgage payments or rental housing. “I’ve asked Bob Stephenson to look into extending the policy to all employees,” Spencer said.

Stephenson claimed that he and Currie were working together, and that they divided Spencer’s directive in half, with Stephenson working on a plan concerning tuition and employees’ children, with Currie working on the housing part. Currie offered no response when Spencer spoke of Stephenson’s assignment.

Spencer indicated he knew nothing about a college-run dump 200 yards from a house which the college rents to its employees. Currie knew, but said the dump contained “trash, not garbage.” Neither felt he was in a position to confirm or deny the occupants’ claims that the house was infested by rats.

“You can’t keep a house pest-free, especially in an area where there are other rat-infested dwellings,” Spencer explained.

“If the dump draws rats, it shouldn’t be there,” Spencer added. “There is probably no periodic check for rats. We ought to go over and inspect it.”

Both Currie and Spencer said that they had no knowledge as to when the homes had last been painted. “My house needs paint too,” Currie said. Spencer agreed that “the houses should be painted when conditions warrant.”

Spencer pointed out the options for Davidson College. “We could sell some of the houses very cheaply. I’d favor that,” he said, “but there are some we just can’t sell.”

Spencer was asked which came first in the college’s priorities—the problems of the individuals affected or the elimination of rentals, a nuisance for the college. He said, “I have no comment other than to say that each case is unique and will be dealt with individually.”

On Ridge Road, a family of “squatters” has been living in this home. Most of the windows are broken and the block is gutted with holes. The squatters claim to be in the process of moving.

(Staff photo by Venable)