& [ - - rn — ——

MONDAY, BLOODY MONDAY

The Red Cross-ROTC Blood Drive collected nine pints over their goal of 208 last Monday, which will provide all members
of the college community with blood protection.

A Posteriori Realization

The Davidsonian
April 12, 1974

Three Impeachment Spurs Reston, Buckley Talks

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

Next week Davidson College will host two speakers of greatly diverse viewpoints. On Monday, James Reston Jr. will speak on
“The Second Standard of Impeachment.” Reston is a co-author of the book “Perfectly Clear-Nixon from Whittier to Watergate.” Then, on
Wednesday night, William F. Buckley Jr., nationally syndicated conservative columnist, will speak on his general feelings of the current scene,
particularly concerning the present status of the nation’s capital. The duet could prove to be very stimulating, as it would
provide a forum for both liberal and conservative viewpoints which could tie in with the trend of impeachment talks in
Washington.

Buckley is the more noted of the two speakers, due to a great extent to his column and his editorship
of the “National Review,” a highly conservative publication. He also hosts his own television show, “Firing Line,” a weekly program.
Buckley's brother, James Buckley, is a U.S. Senator. He recently called for a Nixon resignation. Director of the College Union
C. Shaw Smith is very pleased with Buckley’s decision to come here. “We have been trying for about five years
to get him to come to Davidson,” Smith explained.

Coeducation Results In Tuition Hike

By BRUCE CORSER

(Ed. note: The following article is based on a speech given by C. David Cornell, Vice President for Finance and
Development. The speech entitled “The Single Sex Issue at Claremont Men's College” was given at the request of that institution's
administrators to help them in their deliberations as to whether or not to go coeducational.)

The trustees accepted the concept of coeducation on the basis that it would “not cost a significant amount of money.”
According to Cornell, this has proved a partially fallacious assumption. With an increase in the student body from 1000 to
1500, the college has had to face the reality of expanding present housing at a time when 3 percent, 40-year
HUD money is unavailable for building dorms. Therefore, the college has resorted to a plan calling for a series of
townhouses to be located adjacent to the campus. These townhouses will cost the student at least $250 more per year
than if he or she resided in the on-campus housing.

Furthermore, with an increased enrollment, the college has found that the science buildings, especially for chemistry and biology, are inadequate.
The capital that must be spent in these areas in the next two to three years will require an existing
structure to be renovated, amounting to a $1.5 to $2 million investment. As enrollment increases, endowment per student decreases since
the college is reducing its educational expenditure for each student. Cornell estimated that just to keep up with the growth
plus a reasonable (4 percent) inflation factor, Davidson’s present endowment of $20 million should be at least $40 million and
probably $45 to $50 million by 1981. Cornell indicated that under existing circumstances, he saw no way to reach this
goal.

In an effort to stem costs, administrators agreed to raise the faculty-student ratio from 1:11 to 1:13 after the decision
was made to go coeducational. Cornell indicated that he thought even this goal was unrealistic and that by the time
the 1,500 student goal is reached, the ratio may be nearer to 1:17, unless more income can be generated, especially
from the endowment. In summary, big money is involved in terms of new capital investment and the inability of endowment
to grow as quickly as the need.

Male applications have stayed within the 900 to 1100 range. With the advent of coeducation, the admissions office has become
much more aggressive. Whereas there were only two or three professionals working in admissions, there now are five. Their budget
has also been increased significantly and they have broadened their scope of potential market, especially in the Midwest. Moreover, since
other colleges of comparable academic standing in the West, Midwest, and East are charging $4300 to $5200, Davidson has a
distinct marketing edge. The total comprehensive fee for the year 1974-75 is $3555. This lower cost is due to the
two-yeartuition freeze which the trustees enacted last year. However, this pricing advantage is not without its disadvantage from a financial
standpoint, because built into the budget over the past two years is almost a half million dollars in compensation increases.
Fortunately, there was a $300,000 "operating reserve" last year which offset the increase in compensation built into the present year’s
budget. The college also receives money from the Duke Endowment and the Andrew Mellon Foundation which will fund next year’s
compensation increases. But, for the 1974-75 budget, this half

Commenting on the prospect of a sizeable tuition hike in one year, Cornell said, "I doubt that the trustees will
approve a tuition increase of $400 in one fell swoop. It would have been much easier in retrospect to have
had two smaller increases, but the programs, its faculty, and its nonacademic overhead. Next year will be the year of
decision in these areas."

Real permanent growth in the endowment, said Cornell, comes from two sources: internal growth of the portfolio, which consists mostly
of common stocks; and new money for the endowment. "We’re all right as long as the student body continues to
expand since we will, in this way, receive additional income from tuition. Our real problem comes when we reach the
static figure of 1500 and have no further increase in income from tuition," Cornell related. "Therefore, we have to find
new sources of money within the next seven years. Right now we're chipping at the ultimate endowment goal with an
icepick," he added. "This concerns me greatly."

What Cornell was suggesting was that once Davidson's costs more nearly approach that of her sister institutions to the North
and the West, and after the novelty of coeducation has worn off, the admissions pool will probably drop from a
projected figure of 1500 back to 1200.

Best participation by a hall $15 first, or an eating house $7 second
Best Costume $10 first, $7 second, $5 third

There will be $98 in prizes given by the committee in the following categories:

"We certainly are excited that he is finally coming, especially at this important time as far as the national government
is concerned," Smith explained. Smith described Buckley as a public debater and speaker who really knows what is going on.
He feels that he will be very adept at speaking to college-level students on an appropriate intellectual plateau. "It is
really hard to find a good conservative speaker that can relate to a group of college students," Smith commented. "We
think he has a point of view that college campuses find both exciting and provocative."

Buckley’s specific topic is not known, but it will certainly be one concerning the national interest in Washington. It is
also expected that Reston’s talk on Monday night will spark questions among Davidson students for Buckley’s appearance. Buckley is the
second nationally-known conservative to speak at Davidson this year. James J. Kilpatrick spoke to the college in October.

Buckley graduated from Yale in 1950, and has since received eight honorary degrees. His books include "God and Man at
Yale," "Up from Liberalism," and "The Governor Listeth." Buckley has held the editorship of the Review since 1955, while his
syndicated column has been running since the early Sixties. He began "Firing Line" in 1966.

According to Smith, Buckley will probably talk some about the impeachment possibility. With Reston’s lecture being most likely a strong
liberal view on the subject, the chances are even greater that Buckley will venture into that subject matter. "I am
very sure that he has a lot to say," Smith indicated with a smile. "And he knows how to say
it."

Reston will speak in Phi Hall on Monday night with Buckley’s talk to follow on Wednesday. Both lectures will be
at 8 p.m.

PRIZES
The Senior Project Committee will sponsor a parade April 27 as part of Spring Frolics. According to Parade Director Frank
Somerville, "The purpose of the parade is to celebrate the arrival of Spring." The route of the parade includes the
business district section of Main Street and a swing through campus.

Best Decorated Car $7 first, $3 second
Best Marching Unit $15 first, $7 second
Best Float $15 first, $7 second

Judges will include Dean of Students Will Terry.
