VICIOUS SPIRIT IN THE GAME

The Mench (Photo by Kennon)

Football Still Lives

Last Saturday’s trip to Spartanburg produced a disappointing 49-7 defeat for the Cats. That is our third loss in three attempts. What’s the problem? I don’t believe we can pinpoint our losses to any one common cause, but there does seem to be one noticeable weakness. There is a losing mentality behind Davidson football. This year’s seniors, juniors, and even sophomores are used to losing. But the fault doesn’t lie with them alone. The students and faculty of Davidson accept our football program for what they believe it is. We are victims of that mentality which dictates: “we have lost before, we are losing now, and we will probably lose in the future.”

My answer to this type of thought is that we do not have to lose, and we can all help change our situation. Many of us have experienced a basketball game in Johnston Gym. Did you ever wonder why it is so hard for the basketball team to lose in our gym? I’ll give you a hint, it is because of us. A crowd can really excite a team. It can turn a game around, and it can happen in football as well as it can happen in basketball.

Now I know what is running through your minds as you read this article. You’re probably thinking that I have the audacity to propose that we should commit the cardinal sin (O, help us, St. Augustine) at Davidson by leaving the library on Saturday to go show our support at the football games. It is up to us to show the team that we care, that we appreciate the fact that they are willing to do 150 up-downs after practice to be ready for Saturday. We have to relieve Coach Farrell of the job of finding moral support for our team, and leave him with the burden of coaching. When are we going to wake up and realize that when the team loses, we lose also?

I think it’s great that we enjoy a high standard of academics here. However, it seems to me you “The Charlotte Observer” is like: “The Davidson Wildcats today outscored Ap - San edey victory in the LSAT event today?” When we lost to Wofford last week something seemed to be apparent. How different might this contest have been had we had a sizeable crowd behind our team. Maybe we could have rallied back to threaten their victory. But instead, Farrell and company were forced to adopt the dual role of competitor and cheerleader.

There remain six games on the schedule. Let’s forget the last three games and the last three years. This Saturday night let every fraternity and eating house organize car pools to go support the team against Lenoir-Rhyne. Poli-Sci Professor Paul Liston tried to organize car pools to Wofford last week and would be happy to try again this week. How do you turn around a football program? We can make it happen. I believe there is no difference between the Davidson student body that outcheered 11 thousand South Carolina fans last year, and the people who will travel to Lenoir-Rhyne this week. We can restore pride to our football team, and maybe just maybe, we can show Coach Farrell that you don’t need 150 up-downs to win a game.

CHOICE WINES and BEERS + PIZZA + TAKE OUT SERVICE

IMAC Report

The Davidsonian October 18, 1974

Indians Lead IMAC Tees, Clap Heads For Toilet Bowl

By CAPTAIN AMERICA and BUCKY With B.B. and M.T.

Flickerball swings into action this week and things are as they should be and other things are not as they should be. Got it? To paraphrase Abbo, what is, is, and what is not, is not. Among the what is, are the amazing ATO’s. The Zeros, symbols of ineptness...and lack of hand-eye coordination have actually won two games! Led by Pat "the Goon" Flanagan, the Zeroes smashed Wimpy Richardson I by a 32-6 margin. Amazing: The Cleveland Indians, that large collection of denizens of sub-reality, are showing some awesome flickerball prowess. The Tribe coasted to a 52-27 win over PDT#2. The Tribe boasts a squad of sixteen slightly demented members, which means they have two whole platoons and two subs even, which is unusual for an Independent team. There is some dissension on the Tribe, however. When Randy "Too Tall" Thompson returned from Europe to manage the squad, Tribe star Mark "Cat Stevens" Rodgeman threatened to quit unless his salary was one Budweiser more than Thompson’s. General Manager Ford "New New" Newman is attempting to resolve the differences.

While we’re flaming, we might as well talk about the number one flamers on campus, the infamous, uninhibited, Gozinyas. Chanting their war cry of Go-Zinya and consuming beer by the truckload, these nuts polished off freshman ball Cannon III 44-19. The very next day, recovering quickly from their hangover, the Gozinyas chugged past SAE#3 31-20. The campus with their own portable toilet.

The KA’s, led by their all-sophomore backfield of tailback Jim Kaulries and halfbacks Tim Sellers and David Yearwood, smashed Cannon#2 48-6. The rebels have had a lot of offense this year but have been hurt by a porous "D". Perhaps they should study "Lee at Chancellorsville" for inspiration. Thursday saw two massacres as I Felta Thigh demolished hapless PIKA 40-0. Where are you when they need you, Jimmy Boyd? Newcomers ETC shut out once mighty Emanon by a 36-0 count.

In a battle of the undefeated of League 1, SAE#1 proved too tough for upsurging Clap (A.K.A. the Heavy Metal Kids). Passes from near-legendary Peyton Prospere to ace receiver Rick Quinby and a tough rubber band defense combined to quash the Kidds 25-13. The Kidds seem destined for the fabled Toilet Bowl against the Gozinyas instead of the playoffs. Rumor has it though that attendance at the Toilet Bowl will be required by the social deviance classes.

Monday’s games included a 20-6 victory by the Nads of Cannon I over Richardson II. C.A. and Y.B. have to admit that although these guys have little talent and no class, they do have personality. Their upcoming match with the Sty could prove memorable. Speaking of the Sty, they were thrashed by SAE#2 49-0. C.A. and Y.B. were not fooled by the misinformation. The Sty failed to score despite some risqué trick plays called by their coach Chris "Knute" Young. Also Monday, Richardson basement chickened out against the Rincoon Rangers by forfeiting. (Why would anyone forfeit to the Rangers?)

The SPE’s just barely slipped past surprisingly tough Richardson 3 by a conversion 7-6. The big Eps were still burning after the theft of their outdoor SPE heart and it probably affected their play. Honestly fellows, C.A. and Y.B. had nothing to do with it, we were in the rack. Ask M.T.

In Tuesday’s games, Phi Delt#2 shoved it up the Chocolate Speedway 45-24 and PAX trounced the Richardson I spastics 33-6. Also, the KA’s clobbered RIV 31-0 and the Emanon rebounded to defeat the Zoo by an unreported margin. We’d like to make a correction, Nora "the Speeding Bullet" McNeill scored the winning touchdown in that big Zoo-Sty game last week. (See INDIANS, page 8)