— —_— — — - 
Friday, March 22
Monday, March 25
Tuesday, March 26
8 p.m. Lecture:
Wednesday, March 27
8 p.m. Fine Film: “Stagecoach”
Thursday, March 28
8 p.m. Gallery Talk: Herb Jackson
Friday, March 29
8 p.m. Puppeteer:
March 22, 1974
Up ‘n’ Coming
2 3:30 & 5 p.m. Drama Workshop: “How He Lied To Her Husband”
7:30 p.m. Drama Workshop
The Davidsonian
Stowe Galleries
All week
The Third Davidson National
4 p.m. Lecture: Honors College
Raymond J. Nelson
7:30 p.m. Benefit Basketball Johnston Gym
Faculty/Staff vs. WBTV
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium “Ryan’s Daughter”
8:15 p.m. Flute Recital: Hodson Hall
Charles Delaney
Saturday, March 23
8 p.m. Voices: Love Auditorium “Harlem Heyday”
Sunday, March 24
3, 8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium “Wizard of Oz”
Hodson Hall Perkins Auditorium
2 p.m. Film: “Birth Of A Nation”
8 p.m. Lecture: Perkins Auditorium William Spengler. “World Population Growth”
Hodson Hall Perkins Auditorium William Spengler. “Numismatic Reflections”
Love Auditorium Stowe Galleries Love Auditorium John Brunner: “Canterbury Tales”

Football Prospects
(Continued from page 8)
Farrell is determined to “live or die” with the kind of football he believes in. He stresses execution, efficiency, and simplicity. He sees Davidson running a balanced attack next year. “A football team must do three things offensively to win. We must run between the tackles, run around end, and throw the football. When the defense adjusts to one thing, you then switch to another,” Farrell said. “The play action plays are the best plays in football. Once you make the linebackers commit, you are home free. If you run well you pass well, and vice versa. With our personnel, we will use some variation of the I formation with two backs and a third in a slot or on a wing for counters. We want to be able to get three wide receivers downfield,” he added.

The team will use the defense known as the Tennessee 5 or bubble. It’s a variation of the old 5-2 with a linebacker up in the middle. The team will use few stunts and a simple front. Execution will be the key here too. “Gimmicks don't win football games. We will have few offensive and defensive plays. Our goal will be to execute so well that confusing the other team is unnecessary,” Farrell said.

“Football is my life,” Farrell explained. “I would not have taken the job if I didn't feel we could win here, for my job ultimately depends on winning. I coach student athletes. Studies come first, but as long as football comes second and not any further back, we can bring the caliber of football play up to the level of the other parts of Davidson College,” the coach added.

Computers Aid Evaluation
Although you may not think you know what kind of animal a Student Instructional Report is, you would probably recognize one immediately if you saw one. These computer

New Faculty
The Davidson faculty will be augmented by the addition of two new members next year. Thephilosophy and drama departments will be utilizing their talents. Robert F. Maydole, now an assistant professor of philosophy at St. John's University, will be working here in the same capacity. Maydole holds a B.S. in math from St. Joseph's College in Philadelphia and a Ph.D. in philosophy from Boston University. He has taught at St. John’s since 1969. His areas of specialization include logic, the philosophy of science, and interdisciplinary studies. The new instructor of drama, Joseph Gardner, will be a returning Davidson alumnus. A member of Omicron Delta Kappa as well as of Alpha Psi Omega, he won the Davidson College Drama Award in 1969. For a year after graduation, Gardner served as designer and technical director here, and then enlisted in the Navy for two years. He holds an M.A. in theatre from Florida State University, where he is currently completing work on his Ph.D. in theatre.

Sheets have been used experimentally during the last two examination periods as student course evaluation sheets. Vice President of Academic Affairs John M. Bevan initiated the system in coalition with William B. Hight and the educational testing department. The results of the computerized study of teachers and courses will be completed by today. The evaluations are part of the administration's efforts to comply with a faculty request for periodic self-evaluations. Bevan said that the reports will be available to three groups. The professor himself may use the reports to enhance “his own development as a teacher and his own improvement.” They will be available to department chairmen so they can use them in their talks with professors and as input for their yearly written reports. Bevan will also have access to the evaluations. Finally, students who are making up the manual for faculty evaluations will be able to use the reports. Bevan hopes that these students will examine the evaluations before they start. He believes that, although data was published with this year’s manual, in many cases it was ignored when writing the evaluation of a course and teacher. “Evaluation is only valuable in relationship to development,” commented Bevan. He hopes that the Student Instructional Reports will help teachers develop more effective teaching styles.

Sherrill’s Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.
Jewelry

HATTIE'S HAPPY HOUR — 7-9 Tues. - Fri.
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7-9:30
IMPORTED BEER
Now Serving The “Hattie” Cheeseburger

You may qualify. United States Air Force TSgt. Roger Church

FREE FLYING LESSONS PLUS $9,800 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR

And that's only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial flying career... or impressive executive credentials to go with the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You'll earn from $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits including 30 days paid vacation annually, free worldwide air travel, medical care, and much more. If you're between 20½ and 26½, a senior or graduate student, 332-3046

First Union National.
DAVIDSON