She Bavidsanian December 1974

Five Catatonic Freshmen Seek Counselors

Tripping down my hall after yet another endless study break, I heard a moan oozing from my hall counselor’s room. Amazed that any human occurrence could mar the calm of a Davidson paragon-hall counselor, I knocked on the door and went in. Sprawled about the room, all in a state of near catatonic inaction, were my hallmates. The one sound in the room was the groan which had first tugged at my better instincts, issuing from Betty Jane’s mouth, followed by the chant, "pre-med yes, pre-med no, pre-med yes, pre-med no."

“Okay you all,” I commanded in my best child psychology voice and moved toward the shade, “What you need is a little light in here.”

“No, don’t!” a terrified wail came from under one of the beds. “Wait, wait—please. I took Biology and I know what those rays can do to you—don’t touch that blind. Quick, before it’s too late, find a hole and hide.”

“Uh, okay,” I said carefully, “how about a little air freshener? Would you like some nice raspberry patch air?”

“To the shelters! To the shelters!” the biology student under the bed cried. “The more spray cans you use, the more chlorofluoromethanes in the atmosphere and the more chlorofluoromethanes, the more the ozone level decreases, and when that happens we're all going to get skin cancer—especially white Scots like me. If we all go on spraying our underarms blithely, the ozone level will be down by 30 percent by 1994. Go, go, find a shelter.”

We dropped the flap of the cover and disappeared.

“Sorry,” I apologized at the empty bed, “I guess I just didn’t know the history behind spray cans.”

“History,” boomed a hollow voice, “repeats itself.” Searching for the perpetrator of this cliché, I saw a bundle of clothes which I had assumed to be a pile of laundry, sit up into a Humanities student.

“Well then you need only take half as many notes,” I quipped, trying to insert some levity into the atmosphere if not some raspberry patch. “Come on guys, let’s get a little life in here.”

From behind a wall of Plato’s Dialogues, Locke, and Descartes, a little face appeared. “We die from the moment we’re born, you know. Yes, yes. Do I exist? Do you exist? Better yet, does existence perky exist? Cogito ergo sum and good night.”

A panting behind me, previously masked by Betty Jane’s prayerful pre-med yes, pre-med no, drew my attention to a flaked-out specimen in the corner. On closer analysis, it proved to be my roommate.

“What’s wrong with you, you turkey?” I probed with my usual sensitivity.

“Just fulfilled all gym requirements.”

“How, how?” I pleaded, eyes popping.

“Spent eight consecutive days running around campus, getting the old Davidson run-around.”

Government Stages Scandal, Sells Citizens Coliseum Seats

Watching Buckets games was one of the few laypromtre available to us sub-citizens during the long, rainy winters of Come. Imagine then our surprise when, having reached Realworld through the time-space warp that surrounds Kingdom Come, we entered Arena and asked for tickets to our customary seats; we had received these tickets in the past upon the presentation of our government-issued credit cards.

“Oh, I’m so sorry,” said the ticket-seller. “The only seats reserved for sub-citizens this year are in the sections beneath floor level behind the two buckets.”

This statement astounded us, since one of the details, admittedly a minor one, about our old seats was that we could see the game. We inquired as to the reason for the change in the seating situation.

“Well, the government has developed a new policy,” she explained. “Since those seats are considered so lucrative, they’ll be sold to aristocrats. It is estimated that this policy will generate at least $39.16 in additional revenue for the government.”

“But why weren’t we notified about this new policy and given a chance to argue its merits in public?”

“Oh, there was a public meeting. It was held last summer; the government thought that that would be a good time to hold it since people don’t have as much work then as during the winter and thus have more time to attend such meetings.”

“And of course there are so many sub-citizens around Kingdom Come during the summer,” we replied dryly.

“Right!” she exclaimed. “And to attract even more attention, the meeting was held at 3:00 A.M.; that way, those who had to work during the day would be able to come.”

“You see, the government conducted things right out in the open, as usual, to ensure public approval of the new policy. The government really does have your best interests at heart, you know.”

“Maybe so. It just seems a shame that we won’t be able to support the team as much anymore. But we should probably remember the motto of Kingdom Come: Money is Everything.”

“That’s the spirit!” she cried. “Things really aren’t so bad once you think about it. Here are your tickets. Oh, by the way, since there won’t be as many seats for sub-citizens, you’ll have to sit two to a seat.”“Alright Pat,” I started carefully, “what everyone needs is a little lessening of the old tension. How about we all pick up my life at tie’s.” 

“No, you don’t,” a psychology student said, unrolling from her fetal position. “You're all out to get me—you want to get me tipsy so my anti-cathexis forces will weaken and my id will come forth. Well, you won’t—no one can see the battle of my psyche, no one, no one I say, you won’t, you won’t. It’s my id, mine, mine, mine, mine.”

Checking to make sure her straight jacket was secure, I moved over to another hallmate who was sitting on one of the beds reading with tears streaming down her face. “What’s wrong—reading ‘Love Story’?”

“It’s all so depressing. Modern literature. There’s no hope, no salvation.” Her eyes were glazed and my wit was wasted. She clutched her T.S. Eliot and whimpered, “What shall we ever do, the hollow men, the heap of broken images.” She turned, “The eternal footman snickers as he holds my coat. I measure out my life in coffee spoons and course credits. What shall we ever do?”

Suddenly I realized that one of our hardy band was missing and hardly daring to ask, I asked, “Where’s Gertrude?”

“It finally happened,” the muffled biology voice came from under the bed. “She learned too much, her mind became too expanded and she burst her head.”

“Heavens! But then why should I worry?” I sobbed, realizing that some benign force had kept me from studying.

“The world is coming to an end and all in it shall perish,” droned a girl I didn’t know.

“Oh shut up, Cassandra, no one ever listens to you anyway,” the perky philosopher jeered.

“It is their doom,” answered Cassandra as she made her way out of the room.

By this time I had dissolved into a quivering mass of protoplasm and just barely managed to whimper, “Where, where are your hall counselors when you really need them?”

“Oh them? They’ve been cowering in the closet for the last two days repeating ‘Twenty-four peat, twenty-four brats.’”

I rolled my inert mass over the unoccupied bed and blew the cover down over the small exposed space between the bed and floor, beginning my mantra—om mani padme hum, om mani padme hum...

Davidson PIRG Stops Tilting Windmill, Tent Ripping Cripples Outing Club.

To the Editor:

Recent and current articles in The Charlotte Observer and THE DAVIDSONIAN have been concerned with a project of NC PIRG’s Davidson Chapter—the courtwatching project. These articles have shown that PIRG is no longer concerned with tilting at windmills and Duke Power. The courtwatchers from Davidson have learned a great deal about justice as it is practiced in this area. They have also been given an opportunity to demonstrate the concern for the community which is supposed to be a part of the Davidson way of life. The courtwatchers will ask the General Assembly to enact new laws to reform the court system.

With this in mind, I hope that more students will be interested in continuing the project on a larger scale after Christmas. The local PIRG has several options for community involvement for those not interested in the reform of the courts. The “Wastehunt” project gives students a chance to contribute a very real benefit to the effort to solve the energy shortage—which should concern us all. The brown lung project affects thousands of textile workers in this state and others whose health may be affected by brown lung. We try to demonstrate that there are ways for students at Davidson to influence in some small way the world in which they live. It is also to give PIRG a plug, and to suggest that PIRG at Davidson be thought of as an organization for those interested in doing projects of meaning and value, rather than as a band of wild-eyed radicals.

Biff Kirby ’76
Davidson College

To the Editor:

We, as Davidson students, have been told that the campus community is built on a foundation of trust, honesty, and integrity. The actions of certain individuals Thursday night, Dec. 12, call such beliefs into question. The Outing Club recently purchased a set of tents so Davidson students could go camping without having to purchase this expensive equipment. This service was crippled thanks to the thoughtless actions of the aforementioned individuals. The tents had been erected so that the seams could be waterproofed. This is a simple process, but it required us to leave the tents standing overnight. During the night, someone came through the tent site, resulting in the breaking of cords and the ripping of the tents. We shall allow such actions to speak for themselves. The Outing Club has been hoping to provide a number of useful services. The actions of these persons, though, could affect our austere budget for the year. It is up to the Davidson community to put a stop to such behavior, a prerequisite for maturity. Let us, as students, strive to display a higher caliber of values by ensuring that we are not the cause of such irresponsibility in the future.

Michael Russell ’75
Thomas Knauss ’76
Co-Chairmen, Outing Club