Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

IMAC Basketball

Bryan Andrews

Regular 5-on-5 basketball starts Dec. 4. Rosters are due Nov. 15 and each team must specify whether they wish to
play in the A or B league. Those wishing to be referees for IMAC basketball should sign up on the
bulletin board next to the IMAC office. The pay is $2 per game. In an effort to promote better calling
of the games than last year, there will be a few referee clinics. A new league will be added this
year for female-only teams, if enough interest is shown, according to IMAC President.

Note: The attempt to abolish the point system was met with no success when a group of fraternities asked to
keep them. Either the IMAC office or this group will regulate the system.

The question of the real nature of P.E. requirements at Davidson is one of those lingering problems that perpetually haunt
this campus. The only logical nature of a P.E. requirement here is its non-existence; total abolition of these rules now
would be a nice Christmas present for the student body. Failing this, I am open to any reasonable compromise. Full
credit for participation in an IMAC sport has been mentioned often as an equitable and pragmatic change from the present
policy. But rumblings from the administration indicate that even this modest proposal has little future. So I now will offer
my plan for allowing the current P.E. system to reach its full potential. In keeping with the avowed policy of
forcing the students to benefit from both a sound body and mind, I submit that members of the faculty and
administration share in the blessings of well-toned flesh and vigorous blood. Surely the entire Davidson College community could grow closer
together through the comradery that common toil inspires. Common perspiration in the gym can easily pave the way for inspiration
in the classroom. No doubt some will object, complaining that our mentors have already given their all, years ago, to
by-gone P.E. by-laws. But I dare say that among this group there are backsliders and beer bellies. I, for one,
object to being instructed by a teacher who gets even more winded than I climbing to third Chambers. How can
a student body respect a wimp administration? Flowing blood is thicker than drinking water, and the ties that bind can
be knotted along with our muscles on the playing fields of Davidson.

Booters End Season

By FRANK STIEFEL Staff Writer

Last week, the Davidson soccer team finished its 1974 season. For most of the first half, both teams went scoreless.
With about 10 minutes left in the half, Davidson’s Dave Patton scored off a penalty kick. That goal was to
be the only score of the game, as the Cats gained victory. The defense excelled well for the Cats, with
Charlie Slagle having his usual good game. Billy Hawk also had another fine showing before the end of the game.
On Saturday, the Cats played their final game, as they played host to Emory University. Once again, things seemed to
stay at a stalemate in the early part of the first half. At about the middle of the half, the
Cats managed to collect on a scoring opportunity, as senior Jack Linard got a Bob Giduz cross in close and
put it by the goalie.

IMAC Report

Seven Gozinyas Finish Undefeated, Gnads Proclaimed Best Frosh

By C.A., Y.B.

The flickerball schedule closed last week on Wednesday and Thursday as the Gozinyas finished 6-0 with a 31-13 stomping of
a shorthanded Coach and Six. Clean living takes a back seat to the great God Bud in this contest. R-II
defeated the Sty 20-3 as the first field goal occurred when Nancy Brown punted one through the uprights on field
1 to destroy the freshman hopes of victory.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.a shut-out. The Cleveland Indians took out their SPE aggressions
on the hapless Rincon Rangers by packing their lunch 56-31. Ford "New-New" Newman continued his scoring assault on the IMAC
record books with a couple of his usual cheap TDs. The Chocolate Speedway found themselves constipated and stuck in the
latrine as they forfeited to R-3. Luckily they found their toilet seats; there seems to be a shortage of this
commodity on campus these days. Try Watts, fellas.

The Heavy Metal Kids (Clap) beat 4th Richardson 18-6 as a better 4th Richardson squad doubted the validity of the
existence of one of the Kids. A search with the IMAC head Chip Stone found nothing, so life goes on.

Also on Thursday (bet you clowns did not know the days changed), the Sty (also known as Watts 3rd and
4th, no third "f" there folks) lost once again to the Zoo 12-0 as Becca "the Stomp" Stimson scored both
TDs in a rematch of the Douche Bowl. Both teams played extremely tight D in a true coed tradition. (Our
number: ask for M.T.)

The 1974 flickerball tourney started Monday as the ATOs, continuing their strong rebirth, defeated ETC’s nugatory team, 24-6 with 13
interceptions. Now listen, Dick Price, get off our back or we'll make you J.V. manager under Rah-Rah Friars again.

We Want You To Join Our Church
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30

C.A. and Y.B. call bullshit on that rumor. R-II used a touch football type offense to oust the already long-gone
Rincon Rangers 25-0, in a strictly no-contest affair.

The SPEs continued to play well as they said later, to R-I 26-14 behind Doug "Spider-man" Mackelfresh’s escape from Dotie
for the afternoon (just kidding, Mac).

The Gnads proved they can stick it out with the best of them as they beat PDT #2, 20-0 to
remain the best of the frosh teams. In intra-frosh action, C-III bopped C-IV 34-13 as D.C. Augustine continued to play
poorly for C-IV. A hard rookie for D.C.

The Heavy Metal Kids played super D as they nailed the Gamms 14-0 behind QB Ruffer Harding and Bill "Roids"
Lloyd. The referee had this to say: "C-II scored their only TD when they started to play flickerball." Outstanding observation—we
need this work in the new (yawn).

IFT humped 3+4 Watt (Sty) 18-6 as the Sty scored a legitimate TD as the girls said, “wait until next
year.” We can wait, don’t worry.

The three-on-three competition was down to the final after Tuesday night with the Gozinyas, composed of the coaches Rah-Rah Friars,
James "Get on the Goodfoot" Brown, Harry "Reset" Khron, and the infamous Bo "due to my size I'm allowed to
foul" Brickels. We ain’t gonna call this one. Chris will give Rah-Rah fits, but James Brown has got his shit
together. It is over for the Gozinyas, but quick.

In closing, we have the privilege of introducing a C.A. joke: Who conquered Europe? Answer: Attila the Hun. Sick indeed,
says Y.B. Choke on it, you worms.

Ramey Tire Co. — We are your COMPLETE Service Center
Brake Safety Inspection — 10% off on all parts to Davidson Students (W/I.D.)

Subs--Pizzas--Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers--Cold Draught
HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.
