Solutions Sought For Housing Dearth
RICHARD ROMEYN and BRUCE CORSER

There is virtually no doubt that the existing residence hall facilities are insufficient to meet the needs of the 1974-75
academic year. In view of this problem, the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee is currently considering those short-term and long-range
options which will enable "dorm" capacity to keep pace with increasing enrollment. Since there is not sufficient time to erect
a permanent structure before next fall, Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell said he thought the conversion
of existing structures or sections of structures into student housing would be a "virtual certainty."

There are four specific locations under consideration. They are: the present union (Carnegie Building), the bookstore section of Belk, the
math classroom buildings on Jackson Court, and the basement of Richardson Dormitory. The possibility of renovating the Carnegie Union Building
had, until recently, received serious support within the administration. It was hoped that a structure within the administration similar to
those at Grey House and North Main could be adopted. However, the structure may still be needed to house the
union next year, for the Grey Union is not scheduled for completion until February of 1975. Using the Carnegie Building
for student housing would leave the campus without a student union for approximately five months. Although originally in favor of
this idea, Dean of Students Will Terry now maintains that he can’t support anything that would leave the college devoid
of a union. "It is more important to have a union than to use that building for housing," he said.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
Davidsonian January 25, 1974

Seminar Planned For Eating Clubs
By JOE EARLE
Senior News Editor

The Patterson Court Council (PCC) and the Council on Social Organization (CSO) have begun a cooperative effort toward helping the
eight Davidson eating houses run more efficiently and save money. Mitch Purvis, chairman of the CSO, said the two organizations
will sponsor a seminar for house presidents and treasurers in the Spring term designed to give house managers advice on
organization and food purchasing. Ron Scott, head of the college dining service, and Robert A. Currie, college business manager, will
serve as professional advisors for the eating houses at the seminar.

During the Fall term, the CSO compiled a list of salaries paid in the eating houses and board costs for
the houses. Purvis said the group compiled data on what house positions were salaried, how much was paid to cooks
and house mothers, and how each house was organized. This data will be made available to members of the PCC
and will be used for comparison purposes at the spring seminar. Purvis noted that although there were differences in how
the houses were organized, there was little discrepancy in salaries paid to house mothers and cooks, and total board in
the eight houses was roughly equal.

Purvis noted that the study of house organization would be of immediate benefit to the freshman group taking over House
No. 2. Forty freshmen signed up for House No. 2 at self-selection Sunday night. The business office published a pamphlet
containing "tips" for the running of the house and requires periodic financial reports. Scott had a meeting with food managers
in the Fall term to discuss money-saving methods in food purchasing and service. At the Spring meeting, Currie will advise
the houses on taxation. Although the houses are tax-exempt organizations, they have to file returns and periodic reports on finances.
Scott said that some of the houses present at the fall meeting had expressed an interest in cooperative food purchasing,
but that such a system has not been seriously discussed. He said that the college food service had offered to
deliver meat to the houses in case they couldn’t get it elsewhere.

Purvis said that Random House has been the only house this year with serious financial problems. "I don’t think the
houses should be told how to run their affairs." One of the major differences noted in the CSO study was
in the differences in salaried house positions. Purvis said that the only positions salaried at all houses were Treasurers and
Social Chairmen.```
NEW PLANS FOR OLD UNION

The College Union will be moving out of this building, but what will go in it next? Will it be
student housing, the art department, or something else?

From Campus-Wide Inputs
By MICHAEL TANNER
Editor-in-Chief

(ED. NOTE: Printed in its entirety on pages 4 and 5)

The new athletic policy guidelines for Davidson College were drafted into their final form last week by College President Samuel
R. Spencer Jr. and Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. Spencer and Bevan based the document on the
assembled questions, suggestions, and criticism of trustees, faculty, students, administrators, coaches, and Wildcat Club officials.

When the Board of Trustees met last October, the primary focus of discussion was the future role that athletics and
physical education would play at Davidson. Prior to that time, it was the feeling of many within the college community
that these should be evaluated in regard to their contribution to the Davidson experience. At their meeting, the trustees reaffirmed
their belief in the value of a “strong and positive program of athletics and physical education as an essential ingredient
in Davidson’s total educational effort.” The trustees then issued a broad statement of policy delineating the direction in which they
felt that intercollegiate and intramural sports, the physical education program, admissions and financial aid, and the Wildcat Club should move,
in order to achieve the kind of balanced consistent program from which all students could mutually benefit.

Subsequently, the college administration took on the task of sifting through the trustees’ statement and constructing concrete guidelines to apply
it. In November of last year, Spencer circulated a memo among various members of the groups mentioned above asking them
to read over the trustee statement and to submit to him written questions and suggested answers about points of the
policy that were unclear or ambiguous. It was hoped that in this way, those most directly con-

(See GUIDELINES, page 12)

building for housing,” Terry said. The possibility of transforming the bookstore area of Belk into individual or communal hinges upon
completion of renovation in the Grey Library. Director of Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr. has stated that installing the
bookstore space into residences would likely leave the bookstore without a location for a term or two. Theoretically, it could
be set up in Chambers Hall or a similar location. However, those concerned feel that it would not be feasible
to move the bookstore into temporary quarters.

Although the possibility of converting the Jackson Court math classrooms into multiperson apartments has received consideration, such a plan has
several serious drawbacks, not the least of which is where to locate the dislocated math faculty. Possibly the most serious
drawback is that fewer students could be housed there than elsewhere.

The renovation of Richardson Basement is the plan favored by Cornell as well as SGA President Blain Butner. However, Butner
said he felt that if Richardson basement were to be renovated, it should be done with the idea of permanence
in mind. “Enough money should be spent to make the place attractive,” he said. “I wouldn’t want to see anyone
stuck in a ‘ghetto’ even for one year.”

Each of these four proposals would theoretically provide the additional housing space which is needed for next year. Renovation of
Richardson basement or Belk Bookstore could be expected to house slightly less than 20 students. If the Carnegie building were
renovated, close to 30 students could be housed. The Jackson Court proposal would provide housing for the least amount of
students—approximately a dozen.

Although the renovation of existing structures is expected to temporarily abate the housing, Cornell emphasized that housing for several hundred
students must be completed by the fall of 1975 if enrollment is to continue to increase as planned. Private construction
of apartments or townhouses on the perimeter or close to the campus is one administrative scheme that would alleviate the
housing deficit for the next several years. Thus far, three different contractors in the area have expressed an interest in
constructing a development of this sort. However, definite plans are not expected until the end of the month. “We're fortunate
to find
```
