Che Vol. LXIII, No. Twenty-Five

Gregory Applies Wit In Fearful Prophecies

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Asst. Managing Editor

Dick Gregory used to suggest that there be full surveillance on all Black men over 50. "Those are the ones you have to watch," he would say, "because these men have become embittered about civil rights." He would say that these men, who used to tell such wonderful stories to their children and grandchildren, were now, through their bitterness, inadvertently preaching the gospel which leads to black revolt and racial unrest. Gregory is still interested in keeping peace, but his fears about who is threatening it have changed.

Tuesday night in Love Auditorium, Gregory spoke about his fears and his belief that time is running out for this country. "We are morally bankrupt on one side and nature is closing in on us from the other," he said. Gregory was to give the last presentation in the Davidson College Comedy Series and began his talk on humor, its origin, style, and purpose. "Comedy is a disappointment with a friendly relation," said Gregory. "The greatest humor is what you do every day... out there, with your friends."

The talk began to take on a more serious air when Gregory said, "Humor doesn’t solve problems, we never laughed at Hitler, and nobody's jokes ever cured cancer." The bulk of Gregory's message Tuesday was an example of using humor to alert and inform. "If politicians control this country, I want to talk about it and if you don’t want me to, I’m going to leave," he said. "Did you see Nixon on television last night? There’s something about the way the French aim their cameras so that it looks like he didn’t do it. The Americans aim so that you can see all that sweat."

Gregory admitted that the aim of the cameras is not really an issue. "The issue is that Nixon had to go down to that editors' convention in Florida to Disney World and say in front of world-wide television, 'I’m not a crook.'" Gregory added, "That’s like the Pope saying 'That’s not my child, there were 12 other guys in the room with me.'"

"Nixon’s luck is so bad he can’t even come on television and come out against busing, there isn’t going to be any more gas," continued Gregory. "We are morally bankrupt, and if Nixon is a moral person I don’t want to be around any immoral cats," said Gregory. He added, "Congressmen in this state could pass ACROSS THE BOARD a bill for capital punishment but won’t outlaw the handguns that cause 99 out of 100 of the crimes punishable by death."

Speaking about Watergate, Gregory commented, "Nixon has no class. That’s why he got caught. This kind of thing has gone on for a long time. If you knew what went on in other administrations... The Kennedys owned Worldwide Fruit... you don’t know what they did to folks in South America... And Johnson, he’s my man. If he had had anything like Watergate come out in his administration, he could have handled it. He would have come on television and said, 'Yeah, I did it. What are you going to do about it?' He’d be sitting there with barbecue sauce all over his shirt..."

Gregory remarked on a number of important news items that never reached the pages of established newspapers in this country but were heavily publicized in (See GREGORY, page 12)

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
May 3, 1974

(Photo by Goodman)
“NOBODY'S JOKES EVER CURED CANCER”
Comedian and Political Activist Dick Gregory spoke Tuesday in Love Auditorium. Terming America "morally bankrupt" he called for action from individuals.

Ford Backs Nixon At Charlotte Meeting

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

"There is no question in my mind... that the evidence presented proves the President to be totally exonerated from all charges," indicated Ford.

The Vice-President stated that he thought "the House Judiciary Committee should be satisfied with the evidence the President has presented to them." He implied that he felt there was a substantial amount of material which the committee had been given and that it was all true.

Davidson For The Defense

On July 15, 1972, Jim Grant, T. J. Reddy, and Charles Parker were sentenced to jail terms of 25, 20, and 10 years, respectively, for allegedly burning down the Lazy B Riding Stables four years earlier. The sentences exceeded those given even...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In arson cases where people | | The convictions of these three civil rights organizers rested almost entirely on the testimony of two men with long criminal records who were granted immunity for charges which could have brought them over 100 years in prison. These witnesses were paid $4000 each by the federal government after giving their testimony and one of them was apparently being sought by state authorities for violating his probation at the time he received the money from the government. In recent months, over 4000 letters have been sent to Governor James Holshouser asking him to commute all or part of the sentences. At his request, the N.C. Board of Paroles investigated the case and recommended a new trial in another county since several "unanswered questions" remain with regard to the case. Such a trial will cost money and the defense is already in debt. To raise money for the defendants, a Defense Fund Party will be held tonight at 8 p.m. at the home of Professor of History L. Earl Edmondson at 602 Concord.

He was then asked how he could make such a statement when he had just stated that he had read less than 200 pages of the transcripts which were released Tuesday morning by the White House. Ford replied with biting criticism that he always “reads the worst...as produced by the news media.” The media “always puts the worst foot first.” The statements made by Ford seemed to bring him to a closer accord with the President regarding the Watergate affair, as opposed to some of his previous statements. In Charlotte, he defended the President completely. This was especially true when a question was raised that implied the President wanted to make payments of “hush” money to Howard Hunt. This referred to the conversation of March 21, 1973, between the President and John Dean. Ford quickly asserted that the President had been forced to play the role of devil’s advocate in order to get the full story and make his decisions in an accurate manner. In the end, continued Ford, the President made his position clear when he said, “We will not do it. It is wrong.” Ford said that this not only referred to the speculation of executive clemency, but also the payments of hush money. The Vice-President allowed the issue to swing back to the present conflict between the committee and the White House regarding how to verify the transcripts. He stated that the President's offer to allow the chairman of the committee and the ranking Republican to listen to all of the tapes and thus verify the transcripts was very fair and efficient. Ford continually stressed the point that the President (See FORD, page 2).

Good Times Featured At Town, Gown Day
By MARK DEATON
Managing Editor

Davidson Town Day festivities will run from 1 to 5:30 p.m. Saturday, May 4, on the Village Green (across from the M & M Soda Shop). Featured will be carnival and display booths, food, and entertainment. Davidson College students Kenny Eiler and Pete Celentano planned the event in an attempt to bring the town and college communities closer together. “We figured it was about time the college and the town got together on something,” said Celentano. “We hope students will go out and have fun and meet the people in town. We want to involve as many people from both the college and non-college communities as we can," Celentano added. “We're trying to make Town Day a big thing from now on.”

According to Eiler, at least 25 booths will be set up on the village green by the college, General Time Elox Division, Southern Bell, and local merchants and organizations. The Davidson Talent Show boasts over a dozen acts. “This is just a nickel and dime kind of thing,” said Eiler. “I wanted to have a carnival, and spring is not the time for academics,” he said. Activities include a cake walk, a Coke toss, Tic-Tac-Toe, Nutty Buttons, a ball toss, Rob the Nest, a make-up booth run by the drama department, silhouettes, and a dunking booth with Sally Stowe, Joe Duncan, John Bird, Mike Sorrentino, and Professor of English Charlie Cornwell waiting to make Several clowns will be on hand to sell balloons, and the Rescue Squad will be serving hot dogs. A raffle, with tickets costing $.10, will start Thursday, with the winner announced following the talent show. The winner has the choice of dunking either ARA Slater’s Ron Scott or The Hub’s Ralph Quackenbush. The film starring Cicely Tyson and Paul will be shown in Love Auditorium from 7 to 9 p.m. Admission is $.50. There will be a cartoon short and door prizes. Wrapping up the day’s activities will be a live band and refreshments on the village green from 9:30 to 1 a.m. There is no admission charge. “Sounder”