This activity came just after the Senate almost refused a request for the $500 needed to bring National Student Association
President Larry Friedman to speak at Davidson. The request was made by SGA speakers committee chairman John Kepchar, and the
senators split 8-8 on the motion. The tie was broken by President Blain Butner in favor of the proposal.

In other business, Butner reported from the Trustee Governance Committee. Butner outlined the several revisions in the committee's final report
that were recently made at its 19th meeting.

In several unanimous or near-unanimous votes, the Senate approved three other motions. A proposal from Senator Kepchar to grant the
Davidson Christian Fellowship $80 for operating expenses passed 14-0, with three abstentions. A motion from Senator Martin Eakes "to send
to the proper authorities the fact sheet and the results of the referendum" on night exams passed 15-1. And a
motion from Senator Rick Roylance suggesting that the local post office remain open until midnight each night also passed 15-1.

In a 2½ hour meeting last Tuesday night, its longest in over a year, the SGA Senate voted on no
less than 12 main motions and amendments. The most significant of them proposed several laundry options instead of the one
universal policy now in effect, and it passed unanimously. The motion was made by Senator Bob Palmer, in response, he
said, to the results of the recent laundry referendum. Palmer called for three options—full service, shirt/sheet service, or no service—and
to these Senator Jim Goodloe added a fourth option (only shirts or only sheets). Palmer's motion also recommended that any
dislocated laundry employees be rehired elsewhere within the college, and that more laundry machines be purchased for the dormitories.

In other business, the Senate displayed uncharacteristic generosity in granting $400 to the Outing Club, represented by Mike Russell and
Tom Knauss. Their request for $200 to purchase equipment was doubled to give them a firmer financial base.

'Good Year' Heralds Admissions Increase
By PAUL WELCH
Staff Writer

Due to the combined influence of a number of factors, the ability of Davidson College to attract potential students now
appears greater than ever before in its history. As of April 23, the Office of Admissions has received a total
of 1400 applications for admission to the class of 1978, or 160 more than the highest previous total. From this
group of prospects, the college accepted 400 men and 120 women, hoping to enroll 235 and 88 respectively. Of the
120 women accepted, 16 have already informed the admissions staff that they do not wish to enroll here, while 53
more have evidenced a firm desire to do so by paying a $100 nonrefundable tuition deposit. One hundred and eighteen
of the men accepted have also paid the deposit, making the total number received to date 171. The college had
only received 163 such deposits by this date last year.

Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White drew attention to what he called a "composite" cause for the larger numbers. "If
I had to pick the most important reasons," said White, "they would probably be a combination of the fact that
we've gone coed with the fact that we've had a good year this year. Our present students seem to believe
in Davidson and are willing and able to give favorable reports to prospective students." He added that he felt that
results indicated that there are many young people today who are interested in attending "a small, high-quality institution" of Davidson's
type.

SGA Amends By-Laws

The Student Senate has issued the following proposed changes to the SGA By-Laws. They will be voted on at the
next regular meeting of the Senate, Tuesday at 9 p.m.

Article 2 Sec. 6 (in addition to present clause):
Attendance will be determined by a roll call which will be made at the beginning and the end of all
announced Senate meetings. If a Senator is recorded as present in at least one of these checks, he will be
recorded as present for the entire meeting. At any time, however, if a quorum is not present, all Senators not
present when the quorum call is made will be deemed absent for that entire meeting.

Article 5 Sec. 3A (Replaces present statement):
"I, by registering for candidacy for the elected office of College, understand and will abide by the election and campaign
regulations as set down by the SGA By-Laws and the Elections Council. I further understand that this elected position represents
a serious responsibility which I am prepared to fulfill to the best of my ability, and it may be assumed
that I have a natural and active interest in student government at Davidson College."

Article 9 Sec. 1 Clause A (Replaces present):
A member of the Student Government may be impeached upon probable cause for unethical conduct, failure to perform duties, or
violations of the SGA Constitution or By-Laws. An impeachment vote...will be by a roll call vote and is a majority
of the total voting Senate membership. The conviction shall rest upon proof beyond reasonable doubt through evidence presented to the
Student Hearing Committee.

Article 9 Sec. 1 Clause B (Replaces present)
Any Senator absent for three (3) or more meetings out of any eight consecutive, announced Senate meetings will have his
impeachment placed upon the next Senate agenda. He will receive from the Chancellor prior written notification of this action.

Communication Snags Hinder Pre-Law
By ANDY LAMAS
Senior News Editor

(Ed Note: This is the final installment of a two-part series with Pre-Law Committee Chairman Winfred P. Minter.)

“An objective of those involved in giving assistance to students interested in law is that of communicating to them the
fact that the counseling and providing of information is available to them," said Pre-Law Committee Chairman Winfred P. Minter. “This
is a continuing problem as we have no way of identifying every student who may get interested in law as
there is no pre-law major, and it is up to the student to take the initiative and seek the counseling.”

The pre-law committee has been criticized during the past several weeks for its decentralized structure. “Because of the decentralized character
of the admissions requirements and attitudes of law schools, we have to work under relatively unstructured conditions as compared to
the premedical efforts in the counseling area. This basic fact should be kept in mind as it is often forgotten,”
remarked Minter.

He stated that it would not be feasible or practical to give more structure to the pre-law efforts.

Managing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Sports Editor:
MARK WILENSKY

Senior News Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
TOM BRUCE
JOE EARLE
ANDY LAMAS
RICHARD ROMEYN

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Editorial Consultant:
ERIC WALKER

Operations Manager:
BILL ELLETT

Associate Editors:
ALAN BLAKLEY
DOUG BROWN
STEVE CANTERBURY
TODD EADES
MARY HOBBIE
GUS SUCCOP
MARY TURNER
MILES WARD

News Editors:
MATTHEW COVINGTON
CHARLES KENNON
LARRY MIMMS

Advertising Manager:
JEFF SICH

Assistant Business Manager:
DAVID TRADER

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
JEFF NEIKIRK

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKCOM
PAUL MITCHELL

Typist:
PATTI SHANKWEILER

Contributors this week:
Ann Bode, Pete Celentano, Woody Connette, John Cook, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Alec Hoon, Susan Ivey, Frazier Marsh, Joe McMillan,
and Paul Welsh.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.

“The basic fact is that the interested student has the primary responsibility of taking initiatives and that the faculty group
involved has the responsibility of affording him such reasonable assistance as it is able.”

Over 80 percent of this year's senior pre-law applicants were accepted to law schools. “We are not seeking to claim
credit. I think the success is due to the students having attained the high grades and met the standards of
the law schools,” said Minter.

He emphasized that the pre-law plan is to attempt to communicate to interested students the necessity of achieving records of
high quality in academics.

The mean score for Davidson students taking the LSAT in 1969-70 was 577, or in the 70th percentile nationwide. The
mean score for Davidson students to date this year is 613, or in the 80th percentile. “This type of improvement
earns plus marks for Davidson with the law schools,” he said.

Minter cited other reasons for the high acceptance rate of Davidson pre-law students. “An explanatory and descriptive brochure has been
widely disseminated on the campus. Each fall the freshman class is given career information as a part of its orientation
and this includes law information,” he said. “During each academic year a great deal of counseling takes place involving interested
students and much time is given to this by the members of the faculty involved. Faculty counselors seek to develop
a background of information about law schools," Minter stated. “The visitation of law schools undertaken last year was very successful
as a means of obtaining this type of informational background. An important part of the planned activities involved the encouraging
of law school representatives to visit the campus in order to talk with interested students. This contact with law school
representatives is of great value to faculty members also,” continued Minter.

Some of the law schools to which Davidson seniors ('74) were admitted include: Wake Forest, Vanderbilt, Washington and Lee, the
Universities of Oregon, Virginia, Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia, Florida, Kentucky, Pittsburgh, Albany, Buffalo, South Carolina, Tennessee, Cincinnati, and Michigan. Harvard, Stanford,
Emory, Boston, George Washington, Catholic, Memphis State, Tulane, and William and Mary also accepted some of Davidson's prospective lawyers.
