The Bavtdsonian
February 8, 1974

Three Rudolph Aesthetics Strain Finances
By BRUCE CORSER
Managing Editor

This fall, Paul Rudolph was approved as the architect for Davidson’s proposed future housing. The New York-based architect was selected by the Committee on Future Campus Housing on the basis of plans submitted by over 23 applicants. President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. noted that Rudolph was unquestionably the most eminent of the people considered. Dean of Students Will Terry, who was also chairman of the committee, said that “the main reason we chose Mr. Rudolph was the interest and sensitivity he displayed to what he wanted.”

The original floor plan called for “a series of apartments, actually a series of living clusters, with kitchenettes, designed for casual living,” according to Rudolph. During the selection process, Spencer indicated that the committee knew that a Rudolph-designed structure would be more expensive than a conventional dormitory. What the committee learned later was that construction of the Rudolph housing would cost an estimated $2.5 million.

After learning of the magnitude of projected cost, Davidson administrators asked Rudolph to submit a more economical version of the same plan. According to Terry, the second drawing was “very fine.” However, with an estimated 8.4 percent interest rate, the room fees would still equal at least $1400 annually per student in order to provide for the repayment of interest, principal, and annual operating costs.

Due to the exorbitant expense of the Rudolph apartments, Davidson is now exploring different avenues of financing student housing. One administration scheme would encourage private construction of townhouses on the perimeter or close to the campus to alleviate the strain on the dormitories. “The townhouse concept would guarantee enough housing to move ahead with the Trustee’s coeducation plan on schedule,” Spencer observed. Currently, Business Manager Robert A. Currie is working with three different developers on the townhouse proposal. Final estimates should be ready by Feb. 15.

As for the financing of the Rudolph building, Spencer declared, “I don’t want to divert capital to income-producing projects. We need to divert money to projects that don’t produce capital such as new chemistry, biology, or fine arts facilities. We have a number of needs down the road,” he added.

Asked about the possibility of a capital drive to finance the Rudolph housing, Vice President of Finance and Development, C. David Cornell said, “We’ve just come out of a big capital campaign and we usually wait eight to ten years between them. We don’t want to run ourselves into the ground. We could have tried to approach certain donors to give money for a Rudolph dormitory, however, the President chose not to go that route.”

Constitution (Continued from page 1)
... campus and outlines the lines of responsibility which lead from the trustees. With the exception of educational policy, the system consists of five advisory councils (Fiscal-Personnel-Development, Admissions, Intercollegiate Athletics, Student Conduct and Campus Life) which meet periodically to advise the president on policy in each of these areas. In the realm of Educational Policy, students are represented on all faculty committees making educational policy.

Operating with a hodgepodge of constitutions and by-laws of each constituency, most of which have not been approved by the trustees, the governance committee is attempting to draft a college constitution which will incorporate all of these constituencies. Within the confines of this document, the students and faculty would then write their own by-laws.

SIGN IN, PLEASE
Seniors Frank Sommerville and David L. Lochlear prepare their signs for “Louie Mills’ night in Johnston Gym.”this route. I support him in this decision.” Terry, upon being asked about the probability of the future construction of the Rudolph housing said, ...

Delay (Continued from page 1)

cement which delayed progress even further. Trucker’s strike: The current strike has stopped deliveries of limestone and brick which are needed to complete the facade and trim which is of critical importance at this point in construction. Johnson told Spencer that the Aug. 1 deadline may have to be extended longer if the trucker’s strike is not resolved in the immediate future. “If we are delayed any further,” said Spencer, “we will try to work out an arrangement whereby we can begin moving the library as soon as the contractor finishes the building. We have told the contractors, however, that we must be moved in when school starts in the fall. Physical Plant Director Grover C. Meetze Jr. estimated that 30 days would remain in September, we would be forced to operate without a Union for six months,” Spencer said. “Since the Union plays a vital role in the area of student activities this would be too long a period to go without one,” he added. “Consequently, we will investigate other housing possibilities for next year.”

“Anything is possible. If in the financial picture such as renewed HUD funding, lower interest rates, or some unforeseen benefactor, we might get the dormitory built.” However, Terry also emphasized that the construction of townhouses would be a clearer death-knell for the Rudolph building. “A new dormitory,” he continued, “is something that will happen in another generation of students.” Spencer has indicated though, that both the townhouse concept and the Rudolph drawings are still viable. “The Rudolph dormitories would give variety to the picture that we don’t have today. They would provide the students with a greater number of options from which to choose,” Spencer added. The President remarked that he would not like to see another “barracks-type” built. In any event, Davidson administrators will have to come up with some concrete proposals for the Trustee’s meeting on Feb. 23.

Trustees To Assemble During Spring Break
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Asst. Managing Editor

The Board of Trustees will conduct their second meeting of this session year on April 1. The meeting will be concerned primarily with finances for the 1974 fiscal year. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said that the annual February meeting of the board is traditionally devoted to financial and budget matters. The costs of tuition, fees and services will be given their annual examination with an eye by the board every February, but I wouldn’t say that the meeting this month will be at all routine,” Spencer said. “The board will make decisions on the outlays of money for next year. It will approve a budget for next year, and decide on the direction of future housing,” he said.

At last October’s meeting, the housing situation was discussed and it was decided that by February, the college should have thoroughly studied the problem and should be able to present the facts and figures of the various possible solutions to the board. The board would then decide what is to be done on the basis of these presentations. Assistant to the President Rich Wilson said that the February meeting would produce a firm settlement on the creation of permanent living space on the Davidson campus. “After this month we'll know whether to contract for a new dorm, off-campus townhouses or what,” he said. “Everything that has to happen will be decided at this meeting.”