The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
- Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

DECEMBER 13, 1974

Once again it is time for the student body to go to the polls to elect its student leaders. This year the prospect for a solid slate of responsible leaders seems unusually bright. Those students running for offices of the Senate and the various publications all possess the experience and interest to serve their duties well. In this light, we encourage the student body to consider carefully the fine points of each candidate’s platform and hence exercise responsible control over the complexion of student government and leadership over the next year.

At this point, the student body needs desperately new and vigorous leadership. Consideration of the stated objectives of the candidates for SGA President reflects some of the sad truths of the circumstances of the student body. Both candidates point to the disintegration of student unity and the need to rectify this. They are so right. In fact, the real problem is not strictly disunity, but rather apathy. This is the numbing problem that new student leaders must deal with first if anything constructive is to be accomplished. The sad fact is that students don’t seem to be concerned with issues like they once were.

Consider the Spring Term course registration situation. Students this year are expected to register for spring classes before the end of the winter drop period. The academic merit of this procedure is highly questionable and the senate should take it upon itself to see that this is not repeated in the future. But how can the senate make a case for change if the student body could care less as its silence regarding this seems to indicate? Certainly, it can’t.

Consider also the recent edict that students will be denied the choicest seats at basketball games in favor of alumni. Admittedly this is somewhat inconsequential, but the fact that students have quietly accepted it points once again to apathy. Both candidates have also emphasized that the senate should take steps to exercise student prerogatives and influences. How right they are, and the opportunities for this are many. An excellent channel for this is cooperation with the student publications, especially in conjunction with the Student Publications Board. This group has of late acquired new teeth to ensure the quality and integrity of each student publication and the senate can work to locate effective vehicles for its programs.

One other focus of student influence that has largely been ignored this year is the group of student departmental advisory councils that were established last year to facilitate student reaction and comment regarding each academic department. These groups should be resurrected.

In short, student government has its work cut out for it in the next year. But the opportunities and needs for effective leadership exist. One candidate has said that a strong precedent of student involvement must be set. Let us hope that such precedents, unlike those of the past, will be constructive, significant, and heeded.

Walker Expresses Concerns Over Miscellany Leadership

To the Editor:

Dabbling in politics seems to be my duty these days. This letter is a specific political gesture on behalf of The Miscellany staff. It is a plea for serious examination of the candidates for editor of The Miscellany in 1975. It is an endorsement.

There are two groups of candidates for this post: Ernest Glenn and Wayne Gulledge; Tom Foster and George Wilson. As a member of the Publications Board, I have met with both these slates of candidates (except George Wilson who didn’t show). From these discussions and work with me on The Miscellany at present, they are well qualified in terms of experience. Their interest and potential I recommend highly.

Tom and George have not worked with The Miscellany before. This is not a damning lack, but it doesn’t help. The interest expressed by Tom in our meeting was appealing. The potential of his team troubles me.

What is at stake in the election is the continuation of a vital literary publication actively exercising reasonably demanding literary standards. I feel that Ernest and Wayne work to draw on the best student literary activity of merit and The Miscellany needs to continue to tap national literary activity of merit.

Quad Necessitates Choice Of Evils
By RANDALL R. KINCAID
Professor of Economics

National elections produced precious little substance on what all politicians seem...to be the principal problem facing the U.S.: inflation. A few of the more enlightened candidates suggested cutting the rate of monetary growth; most simply offered the glib solution of cutting government spending.

Lower Inflation-Defeat At Polls

“I voted against X million dollars of federal spending; therefore, I am a fiscal conservative and against inflation; therefore, elect me.” Such statements by Congressional candidates are basically harmless. This prattle allows the candidate to say something that is enormously popular with the people; and all can say it, since even the most spendthrifty liberal in Congress votes against some spending bill. But these statements have little to do with the problem of inflation. Balancing the Federal budget would probably lower the rate of price increase by something on the order of magnitude of one percentage point.

Why, then, was no sense talked on inflation during the campaign? I have two answers. The first is that the candidates do not know what to do about inflation. Now, ignorance is no crime. It is a crime, however, to claim information when the candidate has none. The more likely reason why no candidate offered a serious proposal for ending inflation is that if he did so, he almost surely would have been defeated at the polls. Let’s see why.

Current inflation is in terms of what economist Martin Bronfenbrenner calls the “uneasy quadrilateral.” Bronfenbrenner maintains that no society can have all four of the following simultaneously: 1) full employment; 2) stable prices; 3) large economic power groups; and 4) freedom from controls. One of the four must be sacrificed at any time; it is impossible to achieve all four. The economy must choose either to have high unemployment, a high rate of inflation, the absence of powerful organizations, or wage-price controls.

Examination Of Tradeoff

If a society cannot choose one of the four, it can choose to give up some amount of two, three, or four of the fronts rather than a great deal of any one of them. Let us suppose that the U.S. people decide that we cannot tolerate any more inflation—that we must have a stable price level in this country. Therefore, we must give up one, two, or three of the other items in the list. We can give up full employment by simply running surpluses in the Federal budget or by slow monetary growth. But this means that tens of thousands—even millions—of workers will be thrown out on the streets. Obviously, this kind of unemployment is intolerable.

A second possibility is to break up the powerful groups in the country. We would apply the anti-trust laws to all corporations that control over, say, 20 percent of the sales of their industry; we would outlaw industry-wide trade unions; and we would outlaw professional associations such as the medical and bar associations. This solution is obviously quite unlikely to be adopted. Large economic groups—corporate, labor, and professional—shape and direct the government through their contributions and the manpower they provide to staff the government. These people are unlikely to destroy the monopoly positions that create their affluence.

The final alternative on the list of four that we can sacrifice is freedom from controls. Now, wage-price controls do not work in competitive industries such as agriculture, textiles, and certain other industries characterized by small firms. However, they can work reasonably well in industries characterized by large economic units.

Hence, we as a society are saying that it is easier to live with one of the four sides of the uneasy quadrilateral. We are unwilling to have high unemployment, and political reality rules out breaking up large economic units.

Living with inflation is fraught with danger. Certain groups within our society, such as the aged and the poor, come immediately to mind. It enables certain groups in our society to gain enormously at the expense of others, raising the possibility of destructive conflict.

Mr. Ford’s solution to the inflation problem apparently is to give up a little bit on all four sides of the quadrilateral. He opts for a little more unemployment through tight money and a surtax. He opts for a little less power for economic groups by asking for penalties on certain behaviors. And he opts for a tiny bit of controls.