Thom Nicholl Muckraker Foretells

When I first heard that Ralph Nader was going to speak at Davidson, I thought, that’s really nice; we should
have had him long ago. However, as the date approached, I realized that I was not all that excited about
hearing the famous muckraker in person. After all, what could he say that he hadn’t already said hundreds of times,
especially to college audiences like us?

Nevertheless, I was prevailed upon in the last moments, and I don’t regret having gone. I found Nader quite entertaining
and mildly inspiring. On the entertainment side, there were his substantial digs into some of our best-loved enemies: giant corporations,
deadly academics, and Jesse Helms. Also amusing, and unavoidable, was the revivalistic analogy—from the reverent, expectant hush as the audience
awaited Nader’s entry, to his mixture of folksy anecdotes with vivid visions of nuclear hell, then his final plan of
salvation and an invitation to come forward for commitment at the close of the meeting.

Still, despite such vicious comparisons, how can you agree with what the man stands for? That’s why I was caught
off-guard by the reactions I encountered when I went back to my dorm.

I suppose that most students loved Nader, but I ran into quite a few who were vociferating against Nader as
wildly as, say, GM board directors. Granted, some reasonable arguments were made. Some complained that Nader occasionally employed irony and
sarcasm rather than sticking to his facts, while attacking corporations for similar non-factual propaganda. Others laughed at the idea of
hundreds of naive college students walking into and cleaning up the dens of corporate iniquity.

However, my impression was that most of this negative reaction was simply a profound resentment of Ralph Nader and what
he stands for. That surprised me, because it brought to mind all of the similar remarks I had been hearing
for years from members of that other universe, our parents’ generation. I had never understood why my father seemed to
resent Nader’s confrontation of the auto industry and his demonstration that their cars were unsafe. Why should that offend anyone
other than the auto makers? Now my friends were reacting the same way. Why does Nader provoke hostility in individuals
who are theoretically only helped, not hurt, by his investigations?

One reason, I suppose, is that most people resent anyone who claims to have as many answers as Nader does.
To them, he is arrogant, “smart,” a trouble-maker. That a young man just out of school would dare to confront
a whole regiment of American dream-makers is enough alone to infuriate a lot of people. Besides, we all love our
automobiles and our illusions. Nader’s attack is on the whole mythology of the beneficence of American industry and special interests.
That attack is less American than cornflakes to those who have come to agree, even subconsciously, that what is good
for GM is good for the country.

Nuclear Carnage

Another sore point about Nader is that he isn’t easily categorized. He has nothing in common with the freaks, the
critics who Americans had had to deal with and had learned to ignore, such as Leary, Ginsburg, or Angela Davis.
Nader is an insider, clean-cut, Ivy League, highly intelligent, with a passion only for his work, and there is certainly
nothing more American than hard work. Because Nader was an insider, his betrayal smarted all the more.

Finally, Nader’s success deflates the comfortable assumption that an individual cannot effectively confront the giants. He thereby eliminated a good
excuse for complacency. This must be particularly irking for students who are not about to be forced into social responsibility.
That is, I suppose, what those Davidson students resented above all about Nader. He was telling them that they are
going to have to choose between “comfortable” acquiescence and intelligent and responsible opposition. That is not a popular message. Only
the organ music was missing.

Everything Comes Out In Wash Of Well-Laundered Students

Letter To The Editor
Mark Wilensky

College Pays Poverty Wages To Blacks, Laundry Workers

Wouldn’t it be nice if Davidson was as pristine as it seems? During the past days everyone has lauded its
very appearance. Even Steve Canterbury, my main rag man, let Madam Davidson off scot-free. Far be it from me to
let the old broad off that easily.

Ever notice how many black people work at Davidson College? Highest levels of authority, too. This college has entrusted that
most important job of all to the black folks. They clean up after us white folks. See many white janitors?
Black faculty members? You won’t either. Oh yes, our janitors andlaundry people are highly paid, too. My good friend Bob
Stevenson tells me that all college employees make at least $2.40 an hour (actually some laundry people make $2.25, but
there exist special circumstances). 40 hours at $2.40 an hour. Let’s see, that’s $5013.00 a year. A veritable fortune, indeed.
Try raising a family on that. Oh yes, another ugly fact. A staff gentleman living in a college-owned “home” across
the tracks tells me that when he objected to his situation at Davidson he was pointedly reminded of who held
the deed to his house. Benevolent old Davidson.

How about the laundry? Where were all the Dana English’s last year when only the men paid the bills? Now
that the women pay equally, the great cry of “rip-off” erupts. The big pow-wow Monday night produced a decision to
request a move Martin Eakes has unsuccessfully advocated for over a year. To paraphrase Karen Martin, if they had “bothered
with the guys” last year, perhaps they would not be paying that bill now. Where were these highly concerned individuals
last year when Ron Gibson and I sought to file suit against the illegal, immoral sexual discrimination and tie-in monopoly
the College calls its laundry? And how stupid were we to drop the suit when Will Terry warned us that
to press the issue could cause a change in policy that would require women to pay the fee also? Will
was half right, anyway. That malarkey about the laundry not being able to do women’s clothes is so much bull.
The College laundry has been ruining and losing men’s clothes for years. Where were the women’s voices then? Ever hear
of another school with a laundry fee? Don’t buy that crock about “keeping the laundry because we have a responsibility
to those who work there.” How long does it take to re-train a clothes folder to be a paper picker-upper?

How about your basic precinct two squad car? That’s a real live shotgun in the front seat. A shotgun! They
use shotguns to kill bears! When was the last time you saw a bear on this campus? We used to
have a code of responsibility here. No longer, says that neat little brochure the D.C. cops passed out as they
took your I.D. picture. (Perhaps next year they’ll fingerprint you.) It is now unsafe to walk at night without three
bodyguards, a bazooka, and backup artillery. Come off it guys. How many times have you needed those guns and nightsticks?
Ever been on another college campus where the security personnel regularly carry weapons? If there were a need for a
weapon some day, why couldn’t the unarmed D.C. cop carry a walkie-talkie and call for weapons help? Even if his
partners were clear across town, it wouldn’t take but a few minutes.

‘Ascent of Man’ Captures Human Cultural Evolution

This is my enthusiastic endorsement of Jacob Bronowski’s film series “The Ascent of Man,” which is showing here in Davidson
on Monday evenings. I’m elected to endorse it because I was one of about 3,000 people who saw it during
the summer at Queens. It is Bronowski’s personalized account of the cultural development of man from the hang Bagpargsorin with
strong - but, by no means exclusive - emphasis on his science and technology, and on their implications. The British
Broadcasting Corporation spent over $3.5 million on the series, sending two film crews all over the world during more than
two years. Some of you will remember that Bronowski was a very stimulating Reynolds Lecturer here six or eight years
ago. His book “Science and Human Values” was a big factor in his Reynolds invitation. Others may recognize him as
a truly Renaissance man - mathematician, philosopher, literary critic, and certainly one of the world’s leading authorities on William Blake.
The Charlotte showing was, I’m pretty sure, the second in the U.S. arranged by Central Piedmont Community College, which is
also making it available here. (But it will not be broadcast in the U.S. during this year at least.) The
response in Charlotte was close to ecstatic. Bronowski successfully interrelates an awesome range of diverse information, but he does it
unpretentiously and winsomely. The visual impact of many of the background scenes is most impressive.

Because of previous commitments of Love Auditorium, it has been necessary to schedule two films each Monday night. Thirteen separate
sessions would certainly be better, but apparently there’s no way out. CPCC will ask you for a paltry $2 for
the whole series. I envy you the thrill of seeing this series for the first time.

Lecke White
Professor of Physics
