—— March 29, 1974 __

The Davidsonian's Second Mountain Crafts Day

Up & Coming

Friday, March 29
All-week Art Exhibit: Stowe Galleries
The Third Davidson National
10 a.m. Dramatic Reading: Phi Hall
8 p.m. Puppeteer: Love Auditorium
John Brunner: “Canterbury Tales”
8:15 p.m. “Passion Play”: Wilmer Welsh

Saturday, March 30
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium
“Johnny Got His Gun”

Sunday, March 31
6:30 p.m. Fellowship of Christian Athletes: Morrison Room
8:15 p.m. Charity Musical: Hodson Hall
9:30 p.m. Davidsonian Recruitment Party: Davidsonian Office

Monday, April 1
All-week Craft Fair: Morrison Room
All-week Craft Fair: Chambers Foyer
All day April Fool's Day: Madam Davidson's
2 p.m. Film: Love Auditorium “Red Deserts”
4 p.m. Drew University: Martin Room
8 p.m. Lecture: Love Auditorium (Congressman Andrew Young)

Tuesday, April 2
4 p.m. Vereen Bell Awards: Perkins Auditorium
7 p.m. Worship Service: DCPC
8 p.m. Poetry Readings: 101 Hillside St.
8 p.m. Mountain Folk: Bar Tales and Music
8:30 p.m. French Film: Love Auditorium “L’Etranger”
Fine Film: Love Auditorium “The Life Of O’Haru”

Thursday, April 4
7 p.m. Catholic Mass: Phi Hall
Love Auditorium “The Monkey's Uncle”
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: Self Study

(Continued from page 1)

focused on was housing. The report specified the desirability of small group campus housing without a sizable increase in dorm rent. Also recommended was that game rooms, ice and vending machines, bath and lounge facilities, and telephone service be either improved, increased, or provided in the various dorms. Other proposals pointed to the need to incorporate the freshman into the system here at the earliest possible time. The report also maintained that national selective fraternities be encouraged to participate in the spirit of Patterson Court.

The student self-study advised that laundry service be made voluntary and that more coin-operated machines be made available. The College Counseling Center should be better publicized; professional psychological counseling be expanded to a full-time program; and vocational and sex counseling should be greatly increased in scope according to the student report. The open house system was backed by the student researchers. However, the student standpoint was that students reciprocate by holding their own open houses.

In athletics, the top priorities were additions to present facilities. Improved or expanded handball courts, track facilities (indoor), tennis courts, and basketball courts were listed as being especially important areas of concern. In the realm of union-sponsored activities, students clamored for more flexible schedules and better publicizing of events. In the publications report, student opinion recommended a careful evaluation of the “Quips and Cranks” as its present status is extremely shaky. In student government, there exists the need to scrutinize the RMA for its present worth and to explore the Grievance Committee as to its potentialities. Students saw the Honor Code as a viable system that should be strictly enforced and emphasized as the cornerstone of the student community.

When someone spends thirty years reminding people to be careful with fire, and he does it for no other reason than to save our forests, he makes a lot of friends. Even if he's just a bear.

A Public Service of This Newspaper and The Advertising Council

The College Union will sponsor the second Davidson College Carolina Crafts fair next week. Exhibits and workshops will be featured during this week-long tribute to the finer points of mountain music and craft work. The Union has invitedMountain craft artists from the western North Carolina area will come and exhibit their work in ceramics, quilting, weaving, and metal work. Monday and Tuesday of next week, April 1 and 2, will be devoted to the work of these mountaineers. Their work will be on display in Chambers Foyer and in the Morrison Room of the Union. On Tuesday night at 8 p.m., the mountaineers will perform country music and tell stories in the Rathskeller bar. Many of these people are in their 70s and 80s, and their stories promise to include mountain lore centuries in age.

During the remainder of the week, the displays in Chambers and in the Morrison Room will be those of students. Friday will be an open day in the Morrison Room. At this time, any student who wishes to show craft work of their own may come and do so. There will also be a swap shop where students and guests can barter their goods.

Union Grove Fiddlers Convention for the last two years. Hall will perform in Chambers Banquet Hall on Friday night at 8 p.m. Saturday, April 6, will be the final day of the fair. The afternoon features a square dance on the soccer field. The Davidson YMCA will provide materials for students to build and fly their own kites during the dance. The fair will conclude on Saturday night with a performance of the Mission Mountain Woods Band in Love Auditorium. The show will begin at 8 p.m.

Former College Union President Joe Earle expressed hopes that students would participate in all of the events of the fair. He emphasized that students should feel free to bring and display their own craft work in the Morrison Room on Friday afternoon. “Any student who wants to show their work should bring it. If we have too many people, we’ll have to rely on first come first serve, but we don’t expect that to happen,” he said.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N.C.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7 — Wed. 9-12. — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N.C.
131 N. Main St
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

SAILING MASTER
An experienced sailor is needed to head up the quality sailing program at a resident coed camp. Experience is needed in large boats as well as knowledge of Scorpion sailboats. Five staff members and a fleet of 25 boats would be under the supervision of the Sailing Master. Camp experience in water sports, with sailing being a feature.

First Union National.

On Friday afternoon, the Union will feature a flat-picking guitar workshop. It will be conducted by Nick Hallman, who has MC’d the Union Grove Fiddlers Convention for the last two years.

FREE FLYING PLUS $9,800 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR
And that’s only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial flying career or impressive executive credentials to go with the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You'll earn from $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits include 30 days paid vacation annually, free worldwide air travel, medical care, and much more. If you're between 20½ and 26½, a senior or graduate student, you may qualify.

United States Air Force
TSgt. Roger Church
332-3046

Please reply immediately to G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Rt. 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C. 29710.