April 19, 1974

She Bavidsonian

West Georgia Defeats Berry In Davidson Relay Action

By CHARLIE SLAGLE Staff Writer

Davidson's track team hosted the Davidson Relays last Saturday. The team came in fifth out of nine teams.

West Georgia won the Relays to break Berry’s recent domination. Berry came in second. West Georgia's win was not easy.
Berry won all the relays but two, but was not quite as strong in field events.

In the 880 relay there was a question as to whether West Georgia would be disqualified. Their third runner changed
lanes a few feet early but was not disqualified because it did not gain him any distance or impede any
other runners.

If West Georgia had been disqualified, Berry would have won the Relays. Appalachian and High Point came in third and
fourth.

Davidson's only first place points came from Greg Love who won the high hurdles in his personal best time.

Davidson had two seconds. Eppa Rixey was the runner-up in the high jump and the shuttle relay team also was
second.

Steve Shankweiler placed third in the shot and fourth in the discus.

Walter Crouch and Steve Fleming got fifths in the long and triple jumps respectively.

Woody Van Meter broke his own school record in the pole vault by jumping 13 feet six inches. This vault
placed him fourth in the relays.

Sailers To Host SAISA Cham

By TRACY CHARLES Staff Writer

Davidson sailing team will compete with five other schools this weekend for first place silver in the Southern Atlantic Intercollegiate
Sailing Association regatta. Davidson, along with Old Dominion and Duke, qualified for a place at the Championships by securing the
top three positions at Old Dominion’s Eliminations Regatta three weeks ago.

The rest of Davidson's points came from four fifths in various relays.

Tuesday, Davidson ran in a triangular meet at High Point against High Point and Wake Forest. Wake Forest won with
73 points, High Point was second at 69 and Davidson was a distant third at 40.

Davidson had only two winners. Mark Connors won the 440 and Van Meter won the pole vault. Connors also got
a second in the 220.

Hal Paul had a second and a third in the high hurdles and high jump, respectively. Shankweiler again placed in
both the shot and discus.

Other seconds for Davidson were Bob Vojvoda in the javelin and John Stanfield in the high jump.

Bob Lautensack ran his best time ever in the mile (4:27.4) but still came in fourth.

The University of Tennessee, College of Charleston and Clemson, having fought it out among six schools in Charleston three weeks
ago, will represent SAISA’s southern division at the championships.

The six schools will be racing on Kerr Lake and will be competing not only for the distinction of commanding
first place in the conference but will, at the same time, qualify for the National Championships which will be held
in late August.

Duke University will sponsor this year’s conference climax. The schools will be supplied with eight Windmills (six to sail and
two for breakdowns); incredibly fast boats, but with extremely awkward rigging.

If it weren’t for the “Mills” great speed off the wind and its ability to pop right up on a
plane, the contortions to which the crew of two must submit themselves would not be worthwhile.

Duke hosted a regatta two weeks ago which would have proven to be a great opportunity to become familiar once
again with the “Mills” peculiar character, if it weren't for a 35 mph breeze that sprang up Saturday morning.

Due to its perverse nature, the wind steadily increased during the postponement - but the B Division was sent out
to race anyway. Pandemonium reigned as all but one boat capsized and most were damaged.

Daryl Douglas and Tracy Charles will sail for Davidson’s A Division in the Championships and Dave Francis and Tommy Lee
will sail B.

SALUTE TO BASKETBALL

Friday, as part of Alumni weekend, there will be a dinner saluting Davidson basketball, the players and coaches who have
made it great over the years. Special tribute will go to retiring athletic director Tom Scott. Following the dinner, a
band will provide music for listening and dancing.
