LIFE AT DAVIDSON

Occasionally, the campus life will lead the scholar to seek a quiet evening of relaxation and congenial conversation at Hattie’s, a local supper club. The hectic pace of academic life often necessitates such respites.

Letters To The Editor

Journalistic Martyrs
Promote Chuck Harmon
The Davidsonian
October 11, 1974

Professorial Poverty Brings Deserved Compassion, Tears

I must admit that I never thought that professorial poverty would become a matter of concern for me. After all, members of the teaching profession in our society are held in high regard for their intellectual achievements, are respected for their investment of their energies in scholarly and cultural pursuits, are expected to be shining examples of moral sensitivity, and are grossly underpaid. It is a curious imbalance. Compared with the squalor which was depicted on the front pages of this paper last week, the professor doesn’t seem to have it so rough. And I am sure that none would want to plead their case at the expense of the poor of any area. But yet...

Unrelenting Apathy

Position To The Editor:

It’s been a long time in coming, but THE DAVIDSONIAN has finally produced its first generation of journalistic martyrs. I’m impressed. Not only has it brought my attention to many of the pressing social issues in our community (i.e., the laundry and substandard housing), it has also been instrumental in compelling me to assume a position of unrelenting apathy with respect to anything but the World Series. It’s not that the causes you support are not worthy of our hearty support, but rather that the manner of presentation leaves something to be desired.

To begin, as any political philosopher will tell you, alienation is not a very effective strategy for mobilizing the masses. To imply that we’re all puppets of the educational establishment, and then have the gall to present a cheap imitation of 20th-century “artsy” poetry which could have been written by most any Humanities graduate, is to be regarded as nothing short of a personal affront. By the same token, empty rhetoric also goes far to obstruct the realization of social goals. While the Sept. 26 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN was replete with pictures of substandard housing, I failed to see a single picture of concerned students painting a house or picking up garbage. I imagine that the staff appeared (“Excuse me, ma’am, can we take a picture of that tenement you call your home?”), got their article, and disappeared into the horizon. What solace for the oppressed workers! Without positive action, splashy journalism is nothing but demagoguery.

Finally, there is the question of realism. To expect that one could change the entire educational system by venting his spleen on Davidson is absurd. Why not eliminate corruption in the executive branch of government by firing a seedy janitor? There is a distinction to be made between idealism and idiocy.

As a result of my disenchantment with campus activism, I propose the following plan to ameliorate all our campus ills: Within 60 days, close the laundry and convert it into an apartment complex. Then move all the poor blacks into that building, in the process tearing down all but one of the tenements, which is to be renovated. When the modernization of this last substandard house is completed, move all the remaining laundry personnel and any dislocated students into it. After all, they’re not in vogue anyway.

Tony Snow ’77
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The few recent articles in THE DAVIDSONIAN on the state of some of the college employees and college-owned houses is like a candle of concern flickering in a forest of self-apathy. Yet it is a candle in a jar whose light will fade into the files of THE DAVIDSONIAN and demonstrate again how rational concern is suffocated by a tradition of repression. The candle will go out, and we will be left once again in darkness, unless the students open their minds and experiences enough to allow that light to burn.

It seems that the only hope, this side of revolution, for the fulfillment of Rush Otey’s “simple” wish for “a radical change in many corporate and individual values,” rests with the ability of the students to detect and object to the subtle signs of repression that surround us. In our morally oriented society, repression is rarely conscious. It is not surprising, then, nor even particularly important, that classical repressionist statements should spring from the mouths of Dr. Spencer and Mr. Currie. Their personalities and modalities of communication and action were nurtured and refined in a repressionist society.

Students must look again at the freedom in their lives. How much of it do they really have? The repressionist attitudes that control us all must be illuminated. When students begin to become aware enough to see the subtle controls exercised over them by such things as: “My house needs paint too;” “We ought to go over and inspect it;” “Slum Clearing Awareness;” and housing articles appearing in the “Davidson Update;” then we will have taken the first steps toward attaining a true individual freedom and a life that, as Reverend Otey says, “is to be made tolerably human, just and civilized in this society.”

Wayne B. Jonas ’77
Davidson College

Wayne GulledgeThe contrast is as striking when one considers the economic future of the professor. For today’s business or engineering student can look forward to a first-year salary upon graduation which equals that of the average associate professor at Davidson. And let us not forget that horde of medical students who, upon their release on an unsuspecting public, will soon be drawing incomes far in excess of those who supervised their training. Although this imbalance should be something about which we are all aware, let us set aside the sticky ethical issue of who in society is entitled to what income, and consider the future of small, prestigious liberal arts colleges.

Admittedly, Davidson has some administrative deficiencies at the present time in this area. C. David Cornell, in his parting shot, more than demonstrated to us in his childish and unprofessional way, that though his criticisms may have been valid ones, he was not the man for the job. What we seem to have here is an academically oriented president who would like to leave the fund-raising to someone else (is anyone’s job safe?) and a faculty with highly divergent opinions regarding administrative priorities. The only question seems to concern which stream of opinion holds enough political clout among the powers that be to weather the criticisms and make its views policy. No one denies that without a strong and successful fund-raising effort, faculty salaries will not be sufficient to compete in the talent market, and Davidson’s traditionally high level of quality in its faculty will soon lose out to competition from other institutions and other professions.

The issue seems to be the gravity of the situation. Some seem to feel that we are proceeding along in fine shape, others being concerned with the possibility of this and other colleges like it being able to withstand the economic pressures that the next few years hold in store. But the thing which makes this an issue for me is that I consider Davidson’s most attractive quality to be the opportunity it affords for the student to pursue friendly interpersonal relations with professors and their families. If I leave Davidson with nothing else, it will be with fond and warm memories of afternoons and evenings spent in conversation, sharing dinner with the family, or perhaps just a paper cup of Kool-Aid in the kitchen. As I sit and consider my schedule for the coming term, my decisions seem to be over which professors I would like to have before I graduate rather than which courses look interesting. For at Davidson, I have discovered the real excitement that a fine professor can give to an ordinary course.

Thus it bothers me that while once income from tuition and faculty compensation were about equal in the budget, the gap between them now is a large and ever-increasing one well in excess of one million. For the salaries we are talking about are those of people I consider friends. And it hurts to hear a friend tell of the steady decline in his net income from year to year as inflation and his increasing economic responsibilities compete for his inadequate salary. And finally, it hurts to consider that while faculty and administration differ over whose fault it is and what exactly should be done, the very future of this institution over the next five to ten years may be in doubt. I am often accused of being melodramatic, but that is why faculty salaries have become a matter of concern for me.

Stone Increases P.E. Options

Familiar by now to most Davidson students is the physical education credit system under which each person is expected to exhibit proficiency in three individual and one team sports. Equally familiar to many is the opprobrium with which it has been viewed in the past. Last year most complaints were indictments of disorganized and inefficient P.E. classes. Indeed, instances of consistently late or absent instructors occurred which warranted some criticism. This year, however, efforts are being made by the P.E. staff to upgrade the program’s overall quality and to provide appealing opportunities for self-development.

Courses in water-skiing, karate, tap-dancing, cycling, and archery have been added, bringing to 28 the total number of sports in which instruction and proficiency tests are offered. And for those who find regimentation repugnant, schedules of independent activities may be forged. The expansion of the P.E. staff to 14 men was a move designed to augment the program as a whole. And finally, credit book-keeping, a proverbial thorn in the flesh, will henceforth be handled by a secretary. According to Director of Physical Education Chip Stone, the entire P.E. department is receiving new and more positive impetus.

For those of us who are athletically ungifted and who find adherence to a Spartan regimen distasteful, amendment of the system may offer a means for fulfilling requirements with minimal trauma. For a school which touts the maturity and intellectual superiority of its students, an elective P.E. set-up is a desirable alternative. But at present, it is mandatory, and thus it is a reality to be confronted. We are being presented with a proposal to meet halfway. If systematic improvements prove workable, we should hesitate to adopt an unenlightened negativism toward physical education. Quite possibly the system will be no more effective than in past years, but it does deserve examination before rejection.