At least twice each academic year, in the Fall and Spring at times set by the President, the Council meets
with the President to consult and advise with respect to student conduct and the mechanism and procedures for enforcement of
rules of conduct. It may recommend to the President changes in the Code of Disciplinary Procedure and in the College
Regulations.

Article X Campus Life

1. Definition. "Campus Life" is defined herein as all those extra-curricular policies, programs, and activities having as their aim the
enrichment of the spiritual, social, and cultural lives of the College community and its individual members.

2. Responsibility. The President is primarily responsible to the Trustees for the development of policies and programs which will enhance
the quality of campus life in this total sense. To this end, he is authorized to employ, subject to Trustee
approval, administrative officers and staff personnel to conduct religious, social, and cultural programs and to make provision within the annual
budgets for their financial support. He maintains and encourages by all available means the fundamental relationship between the College and
the Presbyterian Church in the United States as a means of enrichment of the spiritual aspect of campus life. He
reports periodically to the Trustees on the state of campus life and makes recommendations for Trustee action to improve its
quality.

3. Council on Campus Life.
a) Composition. The Council on Campus Life consists of the Dean of Students, the President of the Student Body, and
six teaching Faculty members and seven students designated in such manner as their respective By-Laws provide. The Dean of Students
is Chairman of the Council, and the Coordinator of Student Activities and the Minister to Students shall serve as advisory
members.
b) Function. The Council is advisory to the President in all matters affecting the quality of campus life. At least
twice each academic year, in the Fall and Spring at times set by the President, the Council meets with the
President to give advice and recommendations pertaining to campus life. Prior to submission of any major proposal in respect of
policy or programs affecting campus life to the Trustees, the President shall inform the Council of its substance in time
to permit its consideration by the Council. By majority vote of the Council, a report opposing any substantial aspect of
the proposal, with a succinct statement of supporting reasons, shall accompany the proposal when submitted to the Trustees. Any such
report shall reflect the vote by which it was adopted. The President may decline to submit to the Council any
such proposal when in his judgment to do so would violate a personal or institutional confidence, or constitute an unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy, or jeopardize in a substantial way a fundamental institutional interest. Upon submission of any such proposal
to the Trustees, the President shall indicate whether or not it has been earlier submitted to the Council.

Article X Academic Freedom, Faculty Employment, and Evaluation (Open pending Committee report)

Article XI Student Government

1. General Powers of Organization. By-Laws: The Student Body may organize itself into associational form, create representative legislative bodies, officers
of student government and committees with legislative and advisory powers; adopt rules of procedure for meetings of the whole body,
election procedures, and other organizational rules; elect its own officers of government and student representatives to legislative and advisory bodies
under this Constitution; and adopt By-Laws.Subject to Trustee approval for their organization and proceedings not inconsistent with the College’s Charter
and this Constitution, the President of the Student Body is regularly invited to attend meetings of the Trustees.

2. Substantive Powers. The Student Body, acting in such forms of organization as it may adopt under section 1 of
this Article, has the power to budget and administer funds appropriated by the Administration for student purposes and to adopt
and implement any programs which are not inconsistent with other provisions of this Constitution, the Code of Responsibility of 1968,
as amended, or the Code of Disciplinary Procedure of 1971, as amended.

3. Review by Trustees of Organization and Function. The officers of student government are responsible for providing the Dean of
Students with orderly means of informing himself of the organizations and programs of student government. Trustee review of any organizational
form, program, or action taken by student government or any of its agencies may be had only upon request of
the President. Review is solely to determine whether the form, program, or action is inconsistent with any provisions of the
College's Charter, this Constitution, the Code of Responsibility, or the Code of Disciplinary Procedure. Pending such formal review, the President
may, with the concurrence of a majority of the Council on Campus Life, suspend the implementation of the organizational form,
program, or action.

4. Communication with the Trustees. By a majority vote of the Student Body or two-thirds vote of the Student Senate,
the Student Government may petition the Trustees for direct action in respect of any matter substantially affecting the fundamental interests
of the College. Prior to submission to the Trustees, the petition must be presented to the President of the College
by the President of the Student Body. It shall be the duty of the President of the College to transmit
such report or petition to the Trustees at the next meeting. The President of the Student Body is regularly invited
to attend meetings of the Trustees, and between meetings may communicate freely with the Trustees through their Chairman, provided that
copies of all such communication be first transmitted to the President of the College.

Article XII Amendment

This Constitution may be amended in the following manner:

1. Proposals for amendment may be submitted in writing to the Secretary of the Board of Trustees at any time
by any Trustee or any administrative officer of the College named in section 3 of Article I hereof, by petition
signed by not less than ___% of the teaching members of the Faculty, or by petition signed by not less
than ___% of the Student Body.

2. Upon receipt of the proposed amendment, the Secretary of the Board of Trustees will place it on the agenda
of the Board for its next regular meeting, at which time the proposed amendment will be laid before the Board
for information.

3. The proposed amendment will be published and comment invited from members of the Faculty, staff, and student body. The
proposed amendment will then be voted upon at the next ensuing regular meeting of the Board of Trustees. A 2/3
vote of the total membership of the Board of Trustees is required to adopt an amendment.

4. When an amendment has failed of adoption, its substance may not again be proposed for adoption before the expiration
of a year from the date of the vote upon which it failed.
