Ten

January 18, 1974

The Davidsonian

Wildcat Basketball

Davidson College basketball is on the return.

Quite possibly, the Cats are trying to make their way into a very high position before the Southern Conference Tournament
rolls around in early March. That is for all the marbles.

Recently Davidson has been playing like it really has put it all together after a very shaky start this season.

The Cats dropped a close game to Furman in Johnston Gym, just prior to the Christmas recess. While the other
students were away, the Cats proceeded to grab the Charlotte Invitational Tournament title for the eighth time in 11 years.

The Cats had to whip Loyola in the opening round, 98-83, while Miami-Ohio bested a favored squad from Syracuse. The
Cats then went on to trounce Miami in the championship game the following night by a score of 97-87.

John Falconi, senior wingman who has been the leading scorer for the Cats the entire season, had a good tournament
in all departments and was named the Most Valuable Player. He had his highest point total of the season in
the Championship game as he burned the cords for 26 points. He also had the team high rebounding total in
that game with 12.

But Davidson refused to stop there. They cruised to a 76-62 win over VMI and lost to a super quick
Pittsburgh team, 90-63. Here, it appeared that the Cats would fold.

They came right back, however, and rapped the same Furman team by a score of 91-76 on the Paladins’ home
court. This win gave the Cats some true confidence for the remainder of the season, especially as far as the
Southern Conference is concerned.

But the true peak of the season thus far came Wednesday night in the Charlotte Coliseum. There, before 9854 screaming
fans, the Cats held a slim margin for most of the game, then held on in the end for a
70-59 upset of the 11th ranked South Carolina Gamecocks.

The Cats played their best game of the season in beating the Gamecocks for the first time in three years.

Head coach Terry Holland sent the team into the game with one principal objective designed to bring a victory. That
objective was to force them into a man-to-man defense and then get the former ACC squad into foul trouble. The
Cats succeeded in both ends of the venture.

The result had to be pleasing to the hometown fans, who had hoped that the Furman upset was not a
farce. With the victory over Frank McGuire and co., the Cats have proved otherwise.

Playing for the second time in as many outings without the services of Falconi, Davidson got tremendous efforts from the
entire team.

... A Surprising CIT Winner
