Four

April 12, 1974

The Davidsonian

In Memoriam

David Grier Martin 1910 - 1974

By DOUG BROWN
Associate Editor

Shortly after David Grier Martin became president of Davidson College in 1958, the Board of Trustees suggested to him that
it would be a good idea to demolish the old president's home and erect a new one in its place.

Although it had been expanded through the years, the house, constructed in 1837 by Robert Hall Morrison, Davidson's first president,
was small, lacking style, and was completely inappropriate for entertaining.

After consulting with his wife, a source of comfort and advice through the years, Martin went back to the trustees
and asked how much they planned to spend on the new residence. They replied that it would be in the
neighborhood of $85,000, which was a phenomenal amount to be spent on a house 16 years ago.

But instead of demolishing the 120-year-old house built by Davidson's first president, Martin proposed to the trustees that it be
renovated. This was, of course, done.

Martin, a man who preserved that building by adding on to it, died April 4th in a Salisbury hospital after
a long illness. He was 64.

Although he was at the helm of Davidson for only a decade, he wrought many changes during that time which
were to stand as a living memorial to his energy.

Perhaps his most important contribution was that during his tenure, the first major overhaul of the academic program in over
40 years was adopted. He raised the money to institute the Junior Year Abroad program in 1964, and during his
years as president, the first blacks were admitted to Davidson.

During that decade of change, the two-year Humanities program was begun, including the remodeling of Chambers Building, Dome Room, Love
Auditorium, and the remainder of the entire building: $2,000,000. And all this was done by a man who was neither
a Presbyterian minister nor an academician, which was a break with tradition since all previous presidents had come from these
fields.

But as J. McDowell Richards, then Chairman of the Board of Trustees, said at Martin's inauguration as the college's 13th
president on April 22, 1959:

“He is not a minister, but he has Christian faith and concern. He is not an educator, but is a
man who has high educational standards.”

Intercollegiate debate became a reality, an audio-visual center came into existence, and the language lab was opened.

In addition, the Drama Department was begun, and to a large extent because of his personal interest, Davidson became a
nationally-ranked basketball power.

Among the other accomplishments that Martin could point to were:

--Patterson Fraternity Court: $500,000
--Charles A. Dana Science Lab: $725,000
--Martin Science Building remodeling: $50,000
--Cunningham Fine Arts Center: $680,000
--Lake Norman Campus Recreation Center: $47,000
--Union addition and remodeling: $337,000
--Steam plant modernization: $165,000

At 48, he was Davidson’s youngest president in its history. Although he was awarded six honorary degrees, including one from
Davidson, his only earned degree was a Bachelor of Science (with honors) from Davidson.

Martin was one of four boys who grew up on a farm one mile from Covington, Ga. Despite the fact
that some of his relatives had been college administrators, he originally wanted to become a missionary.

When told by his father that he could go to college “anywhere he wanted to, so long as it was
either Erskine (in Due West, SC) or Davidson,” he chose Davidson.

While at Davidson he played varsity basketball with former Secretary of State Dean Rusk and Professor of History Frontis W.
Johnston.

Interviewed by phone at his University of Georgia Law School office, Rusk said, “We didn’t play what you would call
big league basketball, and we had our share of wins and losses. However, I do recall our beating Duke and
Carolina.

“And we did learn how to lose in those days. I think this was called ‘character building.’”

After 15 months of graduate study at Emory University, he returned to Davidson as alumni secretary and public relations director
from 1933 to 1936. Then followed four years with a coal company in Atlanta.

In 1940, he became a partner in and sales manager of Grey Hosiery Mills in Bristol, Va., where he remained
until 1951, when he took a substantial salary cut to return to Davidson as treasurer and business manager at the
request of Dr. John R. Cunningham, then college president. He was in that position when the trustees unanimously elected him
to succeed Cunningham.

He spent much of his time in fund-raising, drawing upon his experience and contacts in business to attract financial support
for the college.

He had a knack for raising money, and according to Director of the Library Chalmers G. Davidson, this was due
to his deep love for Davidson.
