Civil rights activist and comedian Dick Gregory will speak in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. Tuesday, April 30.

I have two standards for a good movie. One is that it must take my mind off myself and involve
me in itself. The other is that it must make me like it.

Richard Lester’s "The Three Musketeers" passes only the second half of the test. As a friend of mine said of
a recent production of "Much Ado About Nothing," "How can anyone be mad at a Shakespeare play in which the
actors throw confetti at the audience?"

No confetti is thrown in "The Three Musketeers," but losing sight of the romantic potential which Alexandre Dumas’ novel has
for the screen, Lester has turned it into an engaging farce.

The Davidsonian
April 26, 1974

Seven

reel to reel reviews
by Joe McMillan

"The Three Musketeers"

He has had more success with the farcical elements than the romantic, which depend heavily upon his nonexistent ability to
direct actors.

His mixed bag of a cast (Jean-Pierre Cassel, Richard Chamberlain, Geraldine Chaplin, Faye Dunaway, Frank Finlay, Charlton Heston, Christopher Lee,
Spike Milligan, Oliver Reed, Simon Ward, and Michael York) is probably no commercial compromise on his part; they are the
type of performers he has always liked. Rather surprisingly, Lester has not allowed any of them to embarrass themselves, except
Faye Dunaway, and even she is not aggressively bad.

The Joy Of Eating

The Supreme Burger Court

Have you ever thought of what Muzak is doing to us? Utilizing only the most essential elements for us to
discern the melody, it is pumped into us in an ever-growing number of public places. Muzak, lab tested on rats
and cows, and mass produced by any fool anywhere in the country.

by Davidson. The three most common chains in this area are Burger King, McDonald's, and Hardee's.

What can I say about the way they do business, and they have served close to a hundred burgers for
every person in Davidson.

By Woody Connette

Beginning to tire of the Big Mac, out came the Quarter Pounder. The "quarter pound" is deceptive; simple conversion makes
it four ounces. Still, the patty is thick enough to be seen without peeling off the bun, and I enjoy
it almost as much as the crumbly hamburgers my mother fixes.

Most people here don't seem to know it, but there is a McDonald's in Concord a block from FOOD.

Hardee’s is the most popular chain in Belmont. It is more than worth the drive.

Last Saturday, Frank Farmer and I went there on a blind tip, and were at once awed by the line
outside. It was at least a hundred yards long, but unlike the convocation lunch line, it was moving. After 15
minutes, we were at the door, to where the floor arrangement had all the charm of a skating rink; all
the noise and bustle of a state fair employees’ cafeteria. Within the 500-seat dining area, we were assigned to corral
G, stall 6. Corral G, as in A through M, held more people than all the restaurants (and I use
the term loosely) in Davidson combined.

"Whole order" plates cost from $3.25 to $4.50, and we made the mistake of not getting the half order. Out
came the seafood platters, each holding at least a cubic foot of food - go see for yourself if you
don’t believe me!

In addition to crabs, oysters, shrimp, and the token scallop, we each received the following species of fish:

Me: Frank:
Flounder 2
Catfish 4
Bluefish 1

The film has some wonderful roles for actors, but only Simon Ward among the romantic leads manages to make good
use of them. Geraldine Chaplin and Faye Dunaway try very hard without success.

Among the comic relief performers, Jean-Pierre Cassel is (Raquel Welch) who can hardly believe his good luck. I’m not sure
that Milligan can act but I laughed nearly every time he made an appearance.

The film is best for its comic and decorative elements. George MacDonald Fraser’s screenplay contains such lines as the one
which Porthos says while he, Athos, and Aramis are running to the site of another duel: "I wish someone would
tell me where in the hell we're going." And, when the Duke of Buckingham becomes aware of the Queen’s plight,
"Hurry, then. We must bustle!" D’Artagnan: "Come, Planchet. We must — ‘bustle’." Planchet: "Oh good. I love to bustle."

The director and his cast have been richly inventive. After Constance escapes from attackers, she jumps on a passing sedan
chair in such a way that her pneumatic bodice bulges through a window of exactly the right size. Puzzled for
a moment and then starts to unlace the bodice. When Welch disappears, he gives a plaintive sigh and settles back
to sleep.

But the film is best when it is its most decorative. Opening, closing, and climactic sequences are the easiest for
a director to do well. "The Three Musketeers" has a striking opening sequence of swordplay photographed with some sort of
trick photography - time-lapse photography I think.
