March 22, 1974

The Davidsonian

Racketeers Serve To Tough Enemies

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

“I really find no fault in the play of our guys,” commented Davidson tennis coach Jeff Frank. The statement is a tribute to the play of the Cat netters, considering they had just dropped two of their last three matches, including a 9-0 shellacking at the hands of UNC.

Several factors should be considered when evaluating the quality of tennis the Cats have been playing. First, Carolina has a nationally ranked team, which is considered by many to be one of the best, if not the top team, in the region. The team could have called down to Chapel Hill the morning of the match and called off the afternoon fiasco because of the weather. “The boys really wanted to play the match though,” explained Frank. “They really showed some effort out there.”

The loss matched the score by which the Tar Heels mauled the Cats last spring on the Hill. But the Cats played some “tough tennis,” according to Frank. John Mitchell was the only Davidson netter who came close to winning his match as he took the first set, 6-2; dropped the second one, 3-6; and drove the third set to a tiebreaker, after having been down 5-2 early in the set. His opponent, David Oberstein, is a top competitor who is nationally ranked.

Frank was quick to maintain that the doubles play was still a bright spot for the Cats. In the match that they won against Delaware, they entered the doubles competition tied at three matches apiece. When it was all over, the Cats had a 6-3 triumph. “The Delaware contest was really a great match,” Frank said. “They did not lose anyone off their team from last year that we beat 6-3.”

After the first four singles matches, the Cats found themselves down by a tally of 3-1. Senior Gary Bressler was the sole victor in the upper echelon of the team as he took a quick two-set victory, 6-4, 7-5. Steve Holman came through at the fifth spot and Mitchell captured the win at number six to pull the Cats even as they began the doubles play.

The Davidson club started off well in the doubles, as Bressler teamed with Jim Dorsett to gain a nifty win in the second doubles slot. They took the match in straight sets. Bill Allen and Rick Quinby, the two top players for the Cats, combined to form the first doubles team and they lost their initial set, 3-4. They rallied in the next set, however, to win 7-6 on a tiebreaker. Virtually the same thing happened in the number three doubles, where Holman was playing with Bill DuPont. They dropped the first set, but bounced back to take the win in the second one.

At this point, the outcome of the match was clearly in doubt, despite the 4-3 lead held by the Cats. Allen and Quinby grabbed a quick 5-2 lead in the final set, only to have to hold on by winning Allen’s service for a 6-4 win. This assured the Cats of the team victory. But Holman and DuPont...

Roundballers Attempt To Set Higher Goal

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

On Friday night the Davidson Wildcats will put their basketball team back on the court for one final appearance in helping to close out the present season. The Cats will square off against Wake Forest at the Greensboro Coliseum as part of the festivities surrounding the 1974 National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball finals. The contest will be one where 11-foot baskets are used, which is one foot higher than the present rim positions.

The game is an annual event sponsored by the Executive Committee of the NCAA, used to determine the feasibility of possible new rules. The higher baskets will be the only variation from the present rules of NCAA basketball. What this is designed to do is check into one possible solution to the problem of increased goaltending violations and dunking rules, pushed forward by the growing heights of collegiate front-court men.

One interesting feature that head...Sure that anything will be seen regarding big men in basketball, since neither one of us have anybody that is really that big,” Holland commented. Holland also stated that none of the seniors from this year’s squad will participate in the contest. Deacon Coach Carl Tacy will use the same strategy. One thing that will be interesting to note will be the resulting shooting percentages in the game. In an earlier meeting this season, the Cats and Deacons both shot around 50 percent from the field against each other. The Cats of course ranked high in the nation for a long time in field goal shooting accuracy. The game will be a prelude of some exciting basketball action at the Greensboro facility. The following day will see the long-awaited rematch between the UCLA Bruins and the North Carolina State Wolfpack. The big difference between this game and the one in early December is that the Pack is rated as the number one team in the nation, while UCLA is now ranked second.

The Cats came through in their final set to win and give the Cats an identical win to the one last year. Earlier in the week, the Cats had taken a severe beating at the hands of Swarthmore by a score of 8-1. But this team also had not lost anyone from the previous year, along with adding three new players to the squad.

Coach Jeff Frank remains optimistic over the prospects for this year’s tennis team. He looks for a sharp rebound from last week’s 1-3 record.

Farrell Stresses Success, Skin Fundamentals Basic Pig

By MARK WILENSKY
Sports Editor

Davidson College will field a winning football team next season. Anyone who fails to believe that has not met Ed Farrell. I am not easy to impress when it comes to football coaches. I have been exposed to Don Shula for too long. But much like Shula did when he came to Miami, Farrell is impressing people with his dedication, confidence, and style. Farrell and I discussed the total scope of the Wildcat football program; a program he feels can begin to succeed immediately. Over the last three years, Farrell coached Bridgeport teams to a 30-3 record.

“I have the utmost respect for the football coaches who were at Davidson prior to my arrival,” Farrell said. “I respected them before I got here and since I’ve been to look at game films and speak to our players that respect has grown.” Farrell cited the tremendous odds Davidson teams have faced in recent years. Despite these odds and their losing record, Farrell feels that the players don’t talk or think like losers. Even with the losing situation, he and his coaches feel the Wildcats have been well-coached.

While explaining that he knew of no magic formulas, Farrell said the situation here is right for winning. The key is the new schedule, providing a realistic chance of winning football games. “Davidson students are success-oriented,” said Farrell. “We intend to make their success carry over to football.” The new coach has a very simple philosophy of football. “Football takes too much of a student’s time and is too big an investment for the school to be worth much if done unsuccessfully. We will win and we will succeed,” he explained.

I asked the difference between this philosophy and the “winning is the only thing” philosophy of some coaches. Using a Dave Fagg line, Farrell pointed out that the attempt at winning was the important thing. “While this may be the same thing Coach Fagg said, the difference is that now we have a realistic chance to win. Our schedule is not the easy one some think it is, but while Hampton-Sydney fields a very tough team, I have to think we’re better off playing them than Air Force,” Farrell added.