Sixteen March 15, 1974 The Davidsonian

Friday, March 15
8:15 p.m. Popular Film: "The Mephisto Waltz" Love Auditorium
8, 9 & 10 p.m. Hungry I: Rathskeller. Roger, Wendy, and Sam

Saturday, March 16
10 a.m. Tennis: Johnson C. Smith
2:30 p.m. Tennis: UNC-C Davidson
8, 9 & 10 p.m. Hungry I: Rathskeller. Roger, Wendy, and Sam

Sunday, March 17
2 p.m. Third National Print and Drawing Contest Stowe Galleries
6:30 p.m. Fellowship of Christian Athletes Morrison Room
2 p.m. Fine Film: "Ten Days that Shook The World" Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Jerry Lewis Film Festival: "The Caddy" Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Julie Fields Rathskeller

Monday, March 18
2 p.m. Tennis: Delaware Davidson
7 p.m. Worship Service DCPC
8 p.m. Jerry Lewis Film Festival: "The Delicate Delinquent" Love Auditorium
Davidson National Print and Drawing Contest Stowe Galleries

Tuesday, March 19
10 a.m. Freshman Symposium Chambers Hall
2 p.m. Tennis: Cincinnati Davidson

All week
Davidson Stowe Galleries: National Print and Drawing Contest

DCPC ... Streakers (Continued from page 1)
"We're going to have to arrest them," Hughes continued. "But we don't care whether or not these kids do it around the buildings here in front of the other students. Our policy now is to keep out the outsiders."

As far as any streaking is concerned, Lt. Hughes stated that the police department "hasn't had any actual reports of any." So far, streaking at Davidson has been strictly a one-sided affair, with only men participants in a sport that is anything but discriminatory. There were reports of a lone coed braving the wilds of sexually whetted male appetites and donning the altogether so to speak, but as yet no substantiation is at hand. However, all you guys who have fingered the remaining shreds of Penthouse and are looking for more tangible results, a nameless coed has it on good authority that the Watts dwellers "definitely do have a streaking plan formulated."

Nonetheless, one can already see signs of growing apathy towards the descendant of stuffed phone booths and panty raids. Let's face it, 15 members from Davidson does not come close to 900 from U.N.C., and that may be the very reason itself. "We just don’t have the numbers," one said. But Connors came more to the point: "The personalness of the campus is the main reason. We’re so small that everybody here knows everybody else."

It is true that streaking around here is an infrequent event, and one is usually plowed when it happens. The streaker at the PIKA party last Saturday night was so gone, he ran into a wall, and nobody seemed to notice. The daylight streakers struck (or is it strek?) last Sunday after the Delt version of the Mud Bowl, but after several beers, streaking was far from an accurate description, and attention more or less ran the same route.

But take heart all ye concerned parents, lest ye worry that for all the bread you shell out to this place your son or daughter is mindlessly idling his time away with an au naturel 440; Davidson is still an institution of purpose. "We were streaking in protest of us having any Thanksgiving Day classes," a spokesman for the group explained, "And if the faculty decides to go through with it, we plan to streak to class!" The only advice I can give to them is to drop the idea; the faculty might decide to call their bluff.

Counselors (Continued from page 1)
"These people a sense of a strong working team," said Terry. "During the spring we will also give them special training in dealing with issues such as sex and drugs. We'll also be putting a big emphasis on the honor system and trying to find the best ways of getting across the importance of the honor system to the freshmen," he indicated. "We also hope to identify various hall counselors with specific interests and resources, making them an interdependent counseling group. I think it’s very important for the hall counselors to serve as resources to get the freshmen involved in the campus life of Davidson," Terry said.

Davidson PIRG Hits Drugs
By CHARLES KENNON
Asst. Managing Editor

After spending most of the year in publicity-shy research, NC-PIRG this week began a state-wide campaign against the problems encountered by "average consumers" in buying prescription drugs. NC-PIRG held news conferences throughout the state Monday to...Release the results of surveys conducted on price availability and variation for prescription drugs. These results are intended to support a price-posting bill now in the North Carolina legislature. The bill requires that all prices be freely given and the 100 most common drugs be posted in the stores. Mac McKeithen, chairman for Davidson’s PIRG branch, felt that the area of prescription drugs is one among many where students ... 

Trustees (Continued from page 2) Will Terry and Housing Director Scotty Nicholls have been considering several possibilities. Terry anticipates that there will be about 165 students living off campus next year compared with this year’s 200. He said that if Richardson’s basement is renovated for next fall, it can accommodate 18 students. Fourth floor Belk will house women students next year, and there is a slight possibility that the bookstore will have to be moved before its place in the new Union is ready. 

The state is able to effect serious reform. “The survey conducted on prescription drug availability showed great differences between stores’ prices on the same drug. This lends factual support to the bill now in the legislature. The people have a right to know and that's what this bill would do,” he said. Two surveys were made by Davidson students on the problems of buying drugs in the Charlotte area. In the first, in mid-February, 56 pharmacies were telephoned about the prices for several common prescription drugs. Thirteen (23%) refused to give the price out over the phone. The prices that were given ranged from $2.75 to $7.75 for the same amount of the drug. Following this, PIRG members visited a sample of sixteen Charlotte stores to compare prices. The same prescription of one drug varied in cost from $1.20 to $7.20. McKeithen stressed the fact that these surveys were conducted without the PIRG members identifying themselves as such. 

While reform in prescription drugs is a large portion of PIRG’s activities, it is not the only one. Other projects that PIRG is involved with include fighting Duke Power Company’s proposed rate increase, the expansion of nuclear power plants in the Carolinas (especially the Lake Norman area), and land use. “Duke is a huge monopoly and they made profits of $90 million last year. With that kind of profit, I see no justifiable reason for a rate increase of the magnitude that they want. On Wednesday, March 20, we will host a debate between a representative of Duke and our own hired staff person in charge of investigating Duke, Bob Hall,” McKeithen said. He added that PIRG was a strong supporter of the original form of the Coastal Land Management bill now in the North Carolina legislature, but that changes in the bill had drastically altered its intentions. On this subject, McKeithen said, “As the bill is now, with its amendments, we cannot support it. However, PIRG is still vitally concerned with land use and management.” 

McKeithen expressed concern over future funding of PIRG at Davidson. “As it stands now, each student is assessed $3 for the support of PIRG. At the beginning of this year, every student was able to reclaim his money. Eighty-five percent of the students didn’t reclaim it. But now President Spencer has changed this method, so in the spring registration package there will be a place for students to check if they want to pay for PIRG or not. I feel that if we have to be supported in this new method, every other organization, THE DAVIDSONIAN, Quips and Cranks, SGA and the others, should not continue to be funded by the present way.” 

You may qualify. United States Air Force TSgt. Roger Church 332-3046 

FREE FLYING LESSONS PLUS $9,800 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR 

And that’s only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial flying career... or impressive executive credentials to go with the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You'll earn from $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits including 30 days paid vacation annually, free worldwide air travel, medical care, and much more. If you're between 20½ and 26½, a senior or graduate student, 

First Union National.