BCA, SIFs Clash

By CAPTAIN AMERICA and BUCKY

AS you peons sit there contemplating your summer jobs, or worse yet, graduate schools (your mistake), we try to enlighten your befuddled minds with tales of fun and frolic that occur on the intramural pastures of this ignoble institution. For our third year now, we are writing our last column, completing yet another cycle of senseless bullshit. Perhaps for this reason we are still shackled to the seemingly obscure title of contributors, while others, who claim knowledge supreme, write their one-a-term column as ‘something or other’ editor. Yes, this means you Che.

Pressing onward, we find that as of last Wednesday night, none of the spring intramural tournaments are completed. A couple are close, but that does not count, Bowie. It is not as if there were a ton of games played this year in anything either. In the softball tourney, it is down to a Thursday afternoon battle of two extremes in softball, the KA’s vs. the Queen and 12 Very Nice Guys. Q-12 has a ton of talent. But the KA’s make up for it with a lot of grit.

We beat the KA’s once and knocked the tourney’s darling, the Gozinyas (16-6), into the losers bracket, to rest until the finals. The KA's picked their way to the finals, behind the all-around play of Grey Lindsey, John Brandon, and Bob Cunningham. They beat Arcadia 13-3 and then took a forfeit from the hungover Gozinyas, who had burned themselves out on Gozinya Day the day before. The KA's then crushed Q-12 13-3 to set up the winner-take-all showdown.

In volleyball, there are two teams left in the double elimination tourney: the undefeated Banging Cannoneers Alumni #2 and the once beaten Staten Island Fairies. In the opening rounds, Vanilla Fudge forfeited to BCA#2, while the SPE’s handed the SIF's their first volleyball loss ever, in three games. The next night, the BCA bounced back to eliminate the Fudge in three games, as the Cannoneers gained a long-sought revenge by dealing a hardy blow to the SPE’s, also in three games. Those banging boys, formerly of Fourth...

Energy Savers (continued from page 6)

...means more to Cole than simply trying to win. “In a marathon,” he added, “You compete with your own time and not just compete with other runners.” Barksdale and Cole admire the dedication of the runners who usually finish first. “You have to admire someone like Dave Bedford who runs something like 200 to 250 miles a week,” Cole admitted. Cole believes that some runners are so fanatical that they practice running as a religion. “Their whole lives revolve around running,” Cole explained. Cole and Barksdale are not this fanatical, for neither runs more than 50 miles a week on average. However, their efforts have perpetuated a Davidson tradition and have inscribed them into Davidson history.

C-I has already reached the finals by beating the Gozinyas. Now comes time to present our annual spring awards in connection with IMAC sports. First this year comes our sentimental favorite, the eternal flame of Davidson College, “The Rag Man Award.” To paraphrase a familiar line, this year's winner, once again, needs no introduction. He is the one, the only John Duke Sims. Duke takes his third...consecutive rag with him to graduate study at Baghdad U., centering his efforts on the art of self-discipline. Best of luck, Duke, as we are retiring your rag and bronzing it, to hang from the Johnston Gym ceiling as an inspiration to all upcoming raggers. Other nominees who had flashes, but lacked the Duke’s consistency, were Bill Higgins, Frank Smith, and Chip “Phantom” Stone, who was expert in the art of condescending rag.

One of the most appropriate awards given is the annual “Iron Glove Special.” Replacing defending champ Tom Soos, who couldn't mess up this year due to nagging knee injuries, is the Mad Dog himself of the all-inept Clap team, Eric “Mash” Hendrix. Mad Dog took over the “Hot Spot” for Clap, although no one ever noticed he was there. On good days his range was a slow first step which was usually in the wrong direction, and if by some chance the ball bad-hopped into his glove, his marshmallow-constituted throwing arm allowed such speed demons as Dennis “Boog” Jones and Bob “beep-beep” Cunningham to reach second base safely. Why, Wasted even beat out a one-hopper while on three legs. It’s the spirit that counts, though. And Mad Dog was always in high spirits about softball.

The most coveted award, the James Piersall Award, goes each year to the player most typifying the neuroses of the great Jimmy Piersall. It was really tough to get a good quality nut this year. But we managed. Also, to end things on a bad note, the SPE’s, by entering every team in every possible sport, have won the point totals in the IMAC, so they can once again present themselves with their trophy from SPE...er...ah...Phi Society.

Well, C.A. is going to play with the Texas Armadillos of the Central Texas Professional Basketball League or the CTPBL (no vowels). So, he says, “Bye.” Y.B. is going to the I.M.A. Bastard institution of higher learning to pursue his doctorate in Humanities (Chuckle, chuckle).

May 10, 1974

May you always match and never tilt, gnorg, gnorg, gnorg.

This year’s nominees were the infamous Dave “Eat Shit” freshman takes this award. Dave “Wheels” Wolter, up from the Tucson Arizona Toros, is a unanimous choice. Honestly, people, this boy is sick. He makes Piersall him-

CONCENTRATION PAYS OFF

Leonard Gillespie, playing the number one singles for the KA’s, led his team into the semifinals of the IMAC Tennis Tournament. Bender, who was known to sling insults and other things at people, antsy Charles “The H.B.” Slagle, who, despite getting run over by Bucks Bid, returns for yet another year of the fiasco and the immortal Ace Koloditch, who is the only pitcher in IMAC who had to be pointed toward home plate (that’s pretty bad off, folks). But for the first time, a

MEN! — WOMEN! JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information, SEAFAX, Dept. 4-14 P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362.

NORTHWESTERN The Quiet Company we work quietly Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates North Main Street Davidson, N.C. 28036 College Agents Brad Tipler

PARKS REXALL DRUGS Hours: 9-7 — Wed. 9-12. — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30 Phone 892-0208 Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main St. Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies.

Sherrill’s Jewelry Watch & Jewelry Repair Davidson, N.C.

Now Open For Lunch Featuring N.Y. Delicatessen FOR: Italian Style Submarines As well as a selection of Great Hard Roll & Rye Stacked Sandwiches You Cannot Find A Better Sandwich Value In This Area