April 19, 1974
The Davidsonian

Minter Discusses Pre-Law Program
(Continued from page 1)

Minter addressed himself to the lack of interviews for pre-law students. “This has become an issue because the pre-med committee
offers interviews for its students.

“Most law schools discourage interviews. That's why we don’t have a large-scale interview system.

“The pre-law program is decentralized because there are no certain widespread qualifications for law school applicants.”

The pre-law committee does not take a “neon sign” type attitude in its recruitment of pre-law students. “We give information
to any student who comes by concerning their chances for admittance, profiles of law schools, and information on past Davidson
graduates,” said Minter.

“We do not want to deceive any student about his chances of gaining admittance into law school. Admittance is harder
to gain every year.

“The legal job market is also tight and growing tighter. This year an estimated 29,000 individuals will pass the bar
exam. Yet the Bureau of Labor Statistics forecasts that only 16,500 will find jobs. Even if one is fortunate enough
to obtain a job, substantial salaries are not easy to come by. The starting lawyer's salary in California ranges from
$8,500 to $16,000 a year.

“Only after 20 or 30 years can the average lawyer expect to earn $20,000 or $30,000 a year,” said Francis
Utley of the American Bar Association.

“In lieu of this situation, we advise many of the students who come to us to consider business schools and
public hospital administration programs,” Minter said. “We cannot, of course, veto the plans of students who wish to seek the
pursuit of law, but we can use our influence upon the perhaps unqualified student as well as those who may
not have the needed motivation.

“This influence should be in the direction of careful consideration of alternatives. That this plan has had some effect is
evident from an analysis of our admittance statistics,” said Minter.

By John Cook
Staff Writer

Last week, THE DAVIDSONIAN printed an article on the nature of career counseling and job placement at Davidson. This week,
nine seniors were interviewed for their opinions concerning the present state of professional guidance offered by the college. The comments
ranged from the strongly enthusiastic for the pre-medical and pre-ministerial programs to the dissatisfied for the opportunities available through the
placement office.

William Ralston, a history major, has decided to go into the army and consequently, took advantage of the career counseling
of the R.O.T.C. department. He commented, “I just feel that I should take a couple of years off from school
to broaden myself, to get some experience with people and to support myself financially. The army has given me this
option and could probably help me when I decide to return to school. Their advice has been excellent.”

English major Chris Holly struck a more negative chord saying, “I didn’t even know that we had job counseling. We
should have a person that would deal with this business full-time. Suzie Summers has said that she has no time
to solicit interviews and that’s serious - we can’t just expect companies to come to us.

“I’m going to work next year and then go to Europe. When I return to the United States, I’ll probably
go on to graduate school, but I have never asked professors about good graduate schools. I haven't made any effort
to get information on them.”

Another English major, Alan Blakey, remarked, “I’ve had no career counseling here. Next year I’m going back to France and
I hope to teach in a Berlitz school. My feelings about the situation at Davidson are that I’ve been channeled
through the academic system for 16 years. It’s best prepared me to live in an academic community.

“I’d like to have the teaching experience for about a year. I think there’s a lot to be said for
the incidental system of education. I think, though, that vocational exposure would be good, but we haven’t had many good
opportunities here for that.”

Junior Rollie White is majoring in foreign service or in systems analysis. “I’ve had career counseling with Kincaid towards systems
analysis and counseling toward foreign service work with Liston and Proctor.

“My primary choice is the foreign service and I hope this will work out. The counseling has been good when
I can find these people. It seems to me that they should take the initiative in contacting us.”

Another senior, who wished to remain anonymous, commented, “I have had no career counseling at all. I’m going to teach
school at Darlington in...Rome, Ga. My four years here have made me a college man and I have no regrets
at all. However, no one has helped me at all. Davidson has helped me only in that the president of
Darlington is a Davidson man.” Bob Stouffer, a pre-law student and history major, chose to register a mild complaint concerning
the quality of career counseling. “I haven’t had any career counseling. I’d say that the pre-law program here is mediocre.
I think the professors could do a much better job of finding out what schools want Davidson people. I first
became interested in law through Dr. Lester. I knew that he had some knowledge of it. But many of the
professors here don’t know enough about law school admissions to offer reasonable counseling.”

English Major Mary Hobbie said, “I’ve had some career counseling. I was at the placement meeting and found out that
I didn’t want any of the jobs they were offering. I was offered positions in sales of one sort or
another, but I wasn’t interested in that. I’ve also tried Dr. Hight’s program and that didn’t help very much. Next
year I’m not going to do anything. I’m going to save some money and go to Europe and then maybe
go on to law school. I’ll probably be a waitress. Davidson's doing what I wanted it to do. I made
a choice for the liberal arts and I think the background is good. I feel that I have been enriched
from the education. But I’ve decided for myself that I’ve eventually got to go to law school.”

Hutch Brown, a German major, said, “I haven't had any career counseling. I haven't been looking for a regular job.
Suzie Summers has a couple of catalogs. She cannot recommend me to anybody for a good paying summer job. I
suppose it’s because she doesn’t have the resources. The students that need these summer jobs need them to pay for
their tuition here,” he said. “Next year I’m going back to Marburg. I’ve talked to Dr. Gaige, and he has
given me addresses there, but no suggestions for living arrangements. I know that there are places in Marburg reserved for
Davidson students, and that the number of students going there for JYA has decreased,” Brown said. “There seems to be
a certain amount of unwillingness to help. We have paid a certain amount of money, and after this, no further
help by the institution is given. But Gaige did say that he would write to the Davidson director in Marburg,”
Brown indicated. He also said that he doesn’t think there’s any preparation made for the student to find out what
will be expected from him in the business world. “The student gets no practical teaching. There is no analysis of
capitalist society - this is important - you don't know why you've been shaped to think certain ways. There is
no emphasis on understanding social forces such as the employer-employee relationship,” Brown added.

John Douglas, who is going to medical school, said, “They’ve made a lot of improvements in the pre-medical program since
I was a freshman. One needs help in planning crowded science courses. Since I was a freshman, Dr. Frederickson has
put a lot of order into the program. The interview system is good, and it has helped.” He noted that
although all med schools ask for premed recommendations, a lot of people don’t know professors well enough to ask for
them. Pre-meds should especially get to know Dr. Kimmel and Dr. Fredericksen. Calling pre-med a major of chance, Douglas said,
“Students should look at themselves soon enough to decide whether or not they can get into med school.”

A pre-ministerial student, Brad Long, commented, “I’ve been lucky; I’m a psychology major, and I’ve been able to see what
the fields of social science and religion encompass. The pre-ministerial counseling has been excellent. They’ve made arrangements to bring church
leaders and ministers here.” Dr. Maloney and others have been very helpful and supportive in aiding me to develop my
own commitments. Also, they serve as a very important sort of psychological support. It is encouraging to be able to
go in and talk to men who have made the same sort of commitments.”

It is apparent that many seniors at Davidson are unsure of their future. Many of them agree that a full-time
specialist is needed to assist them in their search.
