All Wiener Squad Contains
Turtle, Turkey, Midget Meat

Well, this is it. For those of you who have been saying ‘where is it,’ here it is. For those
of you who said ‘don’t do it,’ shake it off because Y.B. now presents the annual 1973-74 All Wiener Squad.

We have got some returning vets who approach hall of fame status and some new faces who have “100% pure
meat” stamped on their foreheads.

He stumbles onto the floor, “Turtle Tom McMillan.”

Turtle returns for his final year as head hotdog on this year’s squad to replace near legend Georgie “Porgie” Karl
who went to bigger and better wieners in the pros (a moment of silence, please).

Turtle’s play was consistently doused with mustard, ketchup, and relish this year, enough so that C.A. felt his play resembled
that of the robot in the ill-fated “Lost in Space” TV show. (That does not compute).

The only problem in Turtle’s selection was his classification. In tight situations, Turtle has been known to be in the
meats or fruit section. Ouch.

The other forward is supposed to be a guard, but the way he plays it doesn’t matter.

This year’s trigger man, the man whose arm is frozen in the cock position, is James “Let 'em Fly” Williams.
Fly’s head is screwed on the same way his pants are, backward.

“Guess how tall I am” Towe. After conferring with his dentist, we found that Towe is actually 9½ years old
and has all his baby teeth.

C.A. loved Monte’s style of play. Mr. Midget would run into, under, and over people, fall down and go “Waaaaa.”

Referees such as James “Beanie the Weenie” Howell (how could he be the #1 ref?) would immediately feel sorry for
the tiny tyke and call some outrageous charge.

Monte begs us to feel sorry for him and we really do. Wait until next year when Davidson has Tommy
“the Beached Whale” Verlin run over this little pre-pubic nosehair for good. Muhahahahaha.

The other guard is probably not too well known, but any well-versed wiener expert would acknowledge Ronnie “Red Runt” Lyons
as a sure bet.

This midget would run around doing absolutely no good while making more noise than the entire University of Kentucky cheering
section.

To tell the truth, C.A. & Y.B. entered this guard ahead of Darrell Elston just to rag on Bob Quincy,
our all-wiener writer. Bob has this thing about putting somebody in Carolina Blue on every all-so-and-so team in the nation.
Tough break on this one though. Boy, are we nasty.

The battle for the coach of the year was between Sloan, Tates Locke, McGuire, and Citadel’s coach.

First and foremost, Mo Bayer Rivers, who has supposedly written a term paper for sociology entitled “The Effects of Playing
Basketball While Out on Bail.” Incidentally, he included numerous footnotes from Marvin Barnes’ bestseller “My Ten Best Crimes.” Keep hitting
those books, Mo.

Next, our close friend and associate Fessor Moose Leonard. We'll leave him with just one question: Is Fessor Leonard’s height
in inches higher or lower than his I.Q.?

Darrell Elston had to be selected if only because he is the protégé of super-dog Georgie Karl. Darrell learned most
of his mustard moves from master Georgie. Wherever you are, George, fall down and fake a charge one more time
for us.

Rich Porac again makes all-bench wiener while we would like to thank Citadel for an outstanding all-wiener team under General
George.

To Long Beach State goes the most convincing prisoner award for our all-crime team under ex-warden Jerry Tarkanian. He gets
our hit-and-run award for leaving everything in L.B. State.

Tom Roy may follow in Turtle’s footsteps one of these days, but for now, his virtuous hatchet performance only gets
him honorable mention.

Well, I guess we've shot down enough people for now except Bender and Slagle who have been consigned to death
by the king of oblivion and the Count of Monte Carlo.

The king is dead, long live the king. (Think carefully about this one, ladies and gentlemen).

Send $3.00 for information,

MEN! — WOMEN!
JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Good pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career.

SEAFAX, Dept. 4-14 P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362.

SATURDAY NITE
8 & 10:30

D.C. POP FILMS presents

JOHNNY GOT HIS GUN

(Staff photo by Goodman)

IT’S COMING DOWN
Action in a recent softball clash of the Davidson intramurals. The teams have just begun play in the final major
sport of this year’s IMAC.

HATTIES

HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30

IMPORTED BEER
Now Serving The “Hattie”

Put this in your purse before you get in your hair!

The earth-shattering noise from this purse-fitting horn gives you the protection you've been looking for against muggers and rapists. Just
snap two penlight batteries into this amazing new Vigilant Alarm and you're ready. No wires required. Complete package includes super
simple instructions showing how the Alarm can also be easily installed on windows or doors. GET VIGILANT BEFORE THEY GET
YOU.

SUPPLY LIMITED...
Send me Vigilant Burglar Alarms

I enclose $3.00 for each Vigilant Alarm. I understand that if I am not totally satisfied, I will receive a
complete refund if returned within 10 days.

Family Jewels Ltd.
3431 West Villard Avenue
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53209

NAME
ADDRESS
CITY

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY!

GP

Love Aud.
Door Prizes
