Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

MARCH 29, 1974

Student Input

The Davidson College Self-study program is now engaged in the heart of its work. Some comments are due on the extent of student participation in this study. Ten years ago, students were incorporated on an informal basis. Student viewpoints were assessed on a general basis, and the formal work of the study was conducted by faculty and administration. The Visiting Committee made a very conscious attempt to meet with students and to gain their opinions on the range of college life. Their proper concern has been mirrored in the organization of the present study.

In the present program, students are incorporated at numerous levels. Twelve different students are members of six (out of a total of ten) regular committees of the faculty and administration. Committees such as Educational Program, Physical Plant, and Students are thus open to direct student opinion. These students should be commended for their work and their valuable representation of students’ interests. The work of these committees is targeted for completion on April 1.

By far the most potent source of student input has been the work of a specially appointed Student Steering Committee. The college Steering Committee called for such a body “in hopes of receiving from that committee a set of analyses and recommendations concerning those facets of life to which students can bring a unique perspective.” Such a concern and action is to be commended.

This Student Steering Committee, chaired by SGA President Blain Butner and consisting of 13 other students, conducted a comprehensive study of college life and delivered their report to the Steering Committee on March 19. In the course of this study, 163 students responded to a scientifically random survey covering all aspects of student life. Approximately 100 other students were consulted in various forums. The opportunities for expression of student opinion were numerous. The Student Report is now in the hands of the faculty program. It is hoped that the various recommendations will be seriously considered. An excellent feature of the program is that this report will be forwarded directly to the Visiting Committee. They will thus have access to the formal compilation of student opinion outside of the main report. It is regrettable that the student body has no easy access to this report, for its concerns are vital to us all.

In reviewing educational policy, it called for, among other things, stronger non-professional programs and consideration of major-minor systems. It scrutinized international education programs and the religious commitment of the college. It called for a totally voluntary laundry and increased psychological counseling, suggested that a full-time director of the YM/YWCA be hired. It called for a positive emphasis on the honor code, and the cultivation of a greater sense of community within the college. It is hoped that the student interests expressed in this report will be heeded. The college is to be commended for making a conscious effort to incorporate student opinion through various channels.

Faculty

So the faculty killed the EPC grading recommendations. After all the student pushing and articulating, they killed the move. In effect, their decision says something to the tune of “we’ll do the thinking around here. You people should have stayed home and saved your breath.”

It has been over a year since the Senate ad hoc committee on grading first began to pursue the grading change. It was demonstrated that Davidson’s grading policies in respect to failed courses were extreme in comparison with those of similar colleges and universities. It was also demonstrated that the present policy takes its toll primarily on the freshman class, however right or wrong that is, depending on your point of view. The changes had been endorsed by the Senate and through the Educational Policy Committee, but apparently, those opinions don't mean a thing. We've thought and tried to come up with some sort of rationale behind the faculty vote, and we can't do it. There’s no damn reason for that vote. In addition, though, to finishing off the ‘F’ deletion proposal, the faculty has sent the modified course withdrawal system back to...the EPC to be watered down. The withdrawal system devised within the EPC was a conservative plan to allow the student to withdraw from a course any time during the term if he/she can adequately demonstrate cause. It would give the necessary leverage for the student caught over his head academically. And they sent it back. All that can be said is that we hope the EPC will not move from its former position and will keep the withdrawal changes within reach in upcoming years.

Faculty Guest Column
Super Vision
By FRANK W. BLISS
Professor of English

At the end of Pilgrim at Tinker Creek, Annie Dillard says about the universe, "There is nothing to be done about it, but ignore it or see." Her statement suggests that once you start seeing you cannot stop, and for Annie Dillard, who sees superbly, that seems to be so. 

But for many of us, who stop with seeing just a little, it is not so. If we are to see more than we do, we need help, and sometimes to be helped we have to be shaken up, as we are when we respond to Bruegel's "Landscape with the Fall of Icarus" or to la belle verrière at Chartres when the sun shines through. The modern poems I like best are about seeing. They're about what may be seen with the senses and made into words which can change people.

Toward the beginning of our century, there was a kind of poetry written called imagist. Imagist poems appeal to the senses more than they do to the mind. Here is one by T. E. Hulme, "Above the Dock":

Above the quiet dock in midnight,
Tangled in the tall mast's corded height,
Hangs the moon. What seemed so far away
Is but a child’s balloon, forgotten after play.

You see the moon against a ship’s rigging, surprisingly like a balloon. Occasionally comparisons are more complex, as in William Carlos Williams’ "Flowers by the Sea," the pasture is seen paradoxically as the sea, the sea as pasture.

When over the flowery, sharp pasture’s edge,
unseen, the salt ocean lifts its form—
chicory and daisies tied, released,
seem hardly flowers alone but color and the movement—
or the shape perhaps—of restlessness—
whereas the sea is circled and sways peacefully
upon its plantlike stem.

Restlessness and peace. Restlessness in peace. Peace in restlessness.

The imagist poem can be more dynamic, as Wallace Stevens' narrative "Anecdote of the Jar" suggests:

I placed a jar in Tennessee.
And round it was, upon a hill.
It made the slovenly wilderness
Surround that hill.

The wilderness rose up to it,
And sprawled around, no longer wild.
The jar was round upon the ground
And tall and of a port in air.
It took dominion everywhere.
The jar was gray and bare.
It did not give of bird or bush,
Like nothing else in Tennessee.

That's a little obscure, a little difficult to get at right away, perhaps. Imagine the jar ("gray and bare") upon the hill: listen to the repeated sounds and words: notice the implications. The poem helps you to see feelingly what happens when the made is introduced into the natural. A century ago Thoreau told us that "in wilderness is the preservation of the world." Stevens’ poem was written in 1919.

Among contemporary American poets, I suppose I like Denise Levertov's poems more than those of anyone else I can think of as I write this column, because her poems act out, they embody, the oneness of life and art which she believes in deeply. Her poems shake me up. Not only poets but also readers, she believes, need to share her conviction. "The obligation of readers," she writes in a speech she gave in 1967 and published as "The Poet in the World," is "not to indulge in the hypocrisy of merely vicarious experience, thereby reducing literature to...a frivolity, an irrelevance...." If either the poet or reader fails to see for himself, if he ignores the reality, he is alike.

Here is one of Denise Levertov's poems:

O Taste and See

The world is not with us enough.
O taste and see
the subway Bible poster said,
meaning The Lord, meaning
if anything all that lives
to the imagination’s tongue,
grief, mercy, language,
tangerine, weather, to
breathe them, bite,
savor, chew, swallow,
transform into our flesh
our deaths, crossing the street, plum, quince, living in the orchard and being hungry, and plucking the fruit.

(See SUPER VISION, page 7)