Vol. LXIII, No. Twenty-Six

Trustees Defer Issues, Promote Professors

By JOHN COOK
Staff Writer

On May 3, the Board of Trustees met for the last time this year. The most important item at the
meeting was a presentation by Walter F. Lingle, chairman of the governance committee, on the draft of the proposed college
constitution and the decision after the presentation to put this on the agenda for consideration at the next trustee meeting
in October.

The religious policy and program committee presented the recommendation that the trustees give vigorous support to Davidson’s effort in the
Presbyterian synod to promote understanding of the vital importance of Christian higher education in the church. No action was taken
on the tenure debate, and the question is still under consideration in the executive committee of the trustees to which
it has been referred by the board.

College President Samuel Spencer Jr. gave the annual Report of the President. Included in the report were summaries of the
admissions situation, the college’s financial status, and academic life. The statement said, “We have had a good year. At a
time when serious problems beset colleges and universities across the country, it is gratifying to be able to report an
upsurge of applications for admission, a substantial increase in the resources of the college, and an apparent enhancement of Davidson's
reputation.”

Among the many issues that were discussed in the report, the following were important: the inflation rate and its effect
on the college, the tenure situation, the current threats to academic freedom in the United States, the status of coeducation
at Davidson, the Rocky River project, the need for new computer terminals, and the projected housing units.

There were also many promotions. Associate Professor of Education William H. Hight was promoted to a full professorship. Assistant Professor
of Biology David C. Grant was promoted to the rank of associate professor. Instructor of Music Robert E. Jackson was
promoted to the rank of assistant professor. Instructor of Speech Jean Cornell was also promoted to an assistant professorship.

These professors were offered tenure: Associate Professor of Chemistry John N. Burnett, Associate Professor of Biology Donald C. Kimmel, Assistant
Professor of Mathematics Benjamin G. Klein, Assistant Professor of Physics Robert J. Manning, and Assistant Professor of Psychology Edward L.
Palmer. Professor of Philosophy George L. Abernathy was appointed Charles A. Dana Professor of Philosophy.

Several professors are retiring and some are leaving. Spencer commented Tuesday that “We’re always sorry to lose by resignation and
retirement valuable colleagues who have made strong contributions to the college—there are a number of these this year.”

Contractor Chosen

By CHUCK KENNON

On Friday, April 26, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. made the decision regarding the developers of the apartment dormitory
site. The Lex Marsh Realty Company was selected to handle planning and construction. Financing is to be coordinated by J.J.
Clark Jr. of Lat Purser & Associates, Inc.

“There will be no problem next year about having these rooms ready on time in the fall of 1975. The
contractors will be coming to the campus this Thursday to look the site over, and construction will begin this summer,”
Business Manager Robert Curry predicted. He said that it was still too early to decide on a definite date to
start construction.

Curry expressed confidence in the capability of the selected firms. “I think we are fortunate to have a firm as
experienced in the apartment building business as Lex Marsh Realty. Lat Purser & Associates will do the work on arranging
the mortgage to finance the operation. Between these two I feel we will get the best quality work for the
least money, since we have...”

FUTURE GLORY

This tract of land off of North Main Street has been selected for construction of the new townhouse units to
be ready by the fall of 1975.to keep the rents to students reasonable,” he explained. According to current figures, rent
for the apartment rooms will be approximately $700. Both of the men representing the building company and the financier who
will be working directly with administration officials are alumni.

Spencer Outlines Issues For Trustees
By BRUCE CORSER
Managing Editor

(Ed Note: In his Report to the Trustees of Davidson College, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. outlined several important matters
about which he thought the Trustees should be informed and concerned. As we depart for the summer, some of these
same issues are worth our own thought.)

The first of these concerns is for “the preservation of quality and high standards in the midst of the ferment
and proliferation of options growing out of the changes of the last decade.

“Another is the concern for liberal learning as contrasted with purely pre-professional training, especially in an era when more than
half of our students go from Davidson to graduate school.

“A third is the tendency toward a new provincialism caused by disillusionment with the Vietnam war and a movement toward
the neoisolationism against which Dean Rusk has warned us.”

As Davidson wrestles with the problem of self-isolation and the paradox of a liberal arts versus a pre-graduate school education,
it will simultaneously have to confront a galloping inflation and its attending implications for Davidson. This year, in accordance with
a suggestion coming out of the Finance Committee, the college gave every individual on the payroll an increase of 9
percent of the first $6,000 of wages or salary, with a modest amount reserved for merit increases beyond that sum.
Although the payroll is the largest item in the budget by far, the increases, for the most part, did little
more than keep salaries even with the rise in living costs, if that.

Spencer said, “Having built into the budget more than half a million dollars additional money for salary and wage increases
over a two-year period, it is almost inevitable that we will have to increase tuition beginning in 1975-76.

“This contributes to a further widening of the gap between independent college costs and those of the state universities, a
matter of concern to all of us in the independent sector lest this give further impetus to the loss of
students to the state system.”

Spencer went on to say that one partial solution to the problem lies in broader funding of state and federal
scholarship programs. Another consideration is the possibility of leveling off the student body at a population of 1350 to 1400.
Year-round operation is a related subject for possible implementation.

In his report, the President was also concerned with threats to academic freedom. “One is the federal government—an open forum
where ideas can be expressed without fear of reprisal.”

In the world of scholastic, Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan described this year in terms of self-study.
The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools requires such a study every ten years. However, according to Bevan, “the administrators
of the college feel obliged to recommend to the Southern Association a change in format for such studies because of
the time and energy expended in such an effort.”

He noted that at present, 12 committees on Standards meet weekly, and departments meet on a similar schedule to consider
the ramifications.

In addition to self-study, Bevan explained the objectives of the Rocky River Project of the Center for Honors Study. He
called the project “an interdisciplinary study including the investigation of the biological, chemical, social, and political aspects of the river.”
The project is funded by various national foundations and government agencies.

Pointing out the intensified scholarly activity of the faculty and staff, Bevan revealed that 40 percent of the Davidson College
faculty presented papers at professional meetings or authored papers in journals this year. Fifty-two percent attended regional, national, or international
meetings of their profession.
