February 1, 1974

The Davidsonian

EPC Ponders Issue Of Grading Deletions

By ANDY LAMAS
Senior News Editor

Two significant proposals concerning academic regulations are now under consideration by the Educational Policy Committee (EPC). They will be decided
upon by a vote in next Monday’s meeting of that committee. The two proposals are:

(1) To lengthen the course drop period from one-tenth to one-half of the term (from one week to five).
(2) To delete a failing grade from the grade point average once that failed course has been repeated and to
include in the grade point average computation only the repeated course grade.

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said that the proposals will again be discussed in Monday’s meeting of
the EPC before the final vote is taken. "The drop period is one of the principal issues now facing the
EPC," he said.

The majority of the EPC members support lengthening the drop period to two weeks. A two-week drop period was college
registration policy in the early 1970s. It was brought up in the last meeting of the committee that a longer
drop period is not necessary if the student is able to determine how he is doing early in the term.
The student members of the committee countered this by saying that students often do not know how they are doing
in a course until many weeks into the term because many associate professors are delinquent in grading and returning reviews.

As a result of this, Bevan issued a memorandum to all faculty members, advising them of a new college policy
on this matter. The memorandum states that no professor will be able to give a review until he has graded
the previous one and returned it to the students.

In its last meeting, the EPC also passed two extended studies proposals. The first is that a student may now
postpone extended studies 301 until his senior year, if such action is warranted by the nature of the project. A
postponement of this sort is left to the discretion of the major department involved. The Committee also approved an Extended
Studies Seminar on "International Organization" which will be offered in the Spring by Professor of Political Science W. P. Minter.

The members of the EPC also expressed their desire to receive student reaction to all of the issues with which
it is now dealing. The members of the EPC are Bevan (chairman), Professors Grant, Kaylor, Labban, McKelway, Partin, and Young,
and student members.

---

Senior News Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
TOM BRUCE
JOE EARLE
ANDY LAMAS
RICHARD ROMEYN

News Editors:
STEVE BELL
HARRIETT HODGES
FRANCIS TOWNSEND

Photography Editor:
ERIC WALKER

Advertising Manager:
JEFF SICH

Typist:
PATTI SHANKWEILER

Davidsonian Managing Editors:
---

SILP Encourages Linguistic

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Managing Editor

For many, language is a basic prerequisite for understanding other cultures, and because of the growing interest in foreign cultures,
a varied language program has become essential to an increasing number of colleges and universities. This year Davidson College has
instituted its own version of an extended language program based on an international model.

Also, Davidson international students who speak multiple languages conduct sessions to encourage linguistic proficiency.

---

Editors (Contributors this week):
Ann Bode, Pete Celentano, Tracy Charles, Woody Connette, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Frazier Marsh, Joe McMillan, Tom Tornee.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.dents John Taylor and
Andy Lamas. Pronunciation drills to help the students. The Office of International Education enlisted professors from Davidson or, if necessary,
from other campuses to administer the examinations. Because the Self-Instructional Language Program (SILP) began so recently, only a few students
are presently taking advantage of the program. Students are studying Japanese, Hindu, and Portuguese this year. Director of International Studies
Frederick H. Gaige said, however, that Davidson will concentrate in the future on Mandarin Chinese, Hindi, and Swahili because in
each area at least two Davidson professors are teaching courses in the countries where the languages are spoken. "We believe
that students can benefit most from learning languages when they can combine study with other courses on the history and
culture of those regions."

Sophomore Jamie Koloditch is under the SILP program. He commended the program but added that at the present time some
of the logistics have issues. Koloditch said it is difficult to get materials, and that there needs to be better
communication between the student and the Office of International Education. He is unsure about the format of his examination and
who his examiner will be. "I think that basically it’s a good program," concluded Koloditch.

According to Koloditch, the primary duty of the international students who work with him is to ask questions, correct grammar,
and provide subjects for them to converse on. Nat Harrison, the international student, meets with Koloditch three days a week
for one-hour sessions.

### Davis Grant Boosts Renovation Funds
By BRUCE CORSER
Managing Editor

Davidson has just received a grant of $50,000 specifically for the renovation of the college union. Significantly, this is the
first gift designated just for the creation of a new college union. The Florida-based Arthur Vining Davis Foundation is the
source of this consignment. Davis, its philanthropic founder, became president of the Aluminum Company of America in 1910. He later
advanced to Chairman of the Board of Alcoa and was renowned as a director of numerous major corporations and as
a Florida business magnate.

Director of Development Donald Winston has indicated that the Davis Foundation "is one of several institutions that Davidson has applied
to for funds." These applications are presently pending. Notably, the Davis grant has been under consideration for 2½ years. This
lengthy wait was due to the Foundation’s national popularity. Davidson was assigned to a waiting list of institutions seeking an
endowment. Winston noted that the Davis Foundation has always been generous to small liberal arts colleges similar to Davidson. The
Davis Foundation has concentrated the grants program in private education, medicine, and religion. Its avowed aim is to "emphasize the
institution’s own goals, and its progress in implementing them, rather than the merits of a proposal which has been submitted."
Winston observed that in this case the Foundation was given a "shopping list" of the college’s needs. The Davis Foundation
finally decided to allocate $50,000 to "convert the old library into a student center," in the words of the Foundation’s
Trustees.

"The renovation of Grey Library is the college’s first priority," according to Winston. Assistant to the President Rich Wilson noted
that with this grant the college "won't have to take that amount from the budget."
