Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Davidson I’ve given you all and now I’m nothing.

Davidson a cheer and a holler November 17, 1973. He Davidsonian October 4, 1974. I can’t stand my own mind.
—Davidson when will we end the faculty war?

Go fuck yourself with your Christian tenure.
I don’t feel good don’t bother me.

I won’t take phys ed. I’m in my right mind.
Davidson where are you, angel?

When will you take off your clothes?
When will you look at yourself through the phone?
When will you be worthy of your million janitors?
Davidson when will your dormitories be full of students?
Davidson when will you give classes to your students?

I’m sick of your insane demands.

When can I integrate classrooms and get the grades I need?
Davidson, it is you and I who are perfect—not the Ginsberg of the English Department.
You made me what I am, Davidson.
There must be some other way.

Vernon is in prison I don’t think he’ll come out. Is he sinister?
Are you sinister or is this some form of practical joke?
I’m to come to the point.
I refuse to give up my obsession.

Davidson stop pushing I know what you’re doing.

Davidson the elm trees are rotting.
I haven’t read the newspapers for months.
Davidson I feel sentimental about the trophies.

Davidson I used to be in poverty when I smoked marijuana every chance I got.
I stayed in my room for days.

I should travel. I can see the rain in Biloxi.

My faculty advisor thinks I’m perfectly fine.

The Presbyterians are in bed with you.

Davidson I long for great celebrations.

I still haven’t told you what you did.

I spread it every day.

The government stares at me.

Davidson you took me to a Poor People’s meeting. They sold pillows per ticket. A ticket cost a quarter and
the speeches were free. Everybody was sentimental about the miners. It was all so sincere. You have no idea what
great folks they were. Yablonski was a grand old man, a real dude. Gertie Davis made me cry. I once
complained. And Davidson you don’t apprehend.

Davidson you really do want to close that laundry.

Davidson it’s them bad Workers.

Them Workers, them Workers, and them Wage-earners. And them Workers.

The Workers want to eat us alive. The Workers are power mad. They want to pull our collars.

They want to grab Chambers. They want an honest update. They want our elm trees on the west side.
Them big chaos wants to ruin our perfect order.

That’s no good. They make niggers learn to read. They are big black niggers. Hah. They make us work with
our hands all day. Help.

Davidson this is quite serious.

Davidson this is the impression I get from looking out of my open classroom window.

Davidson is this correct?

I’d better get down to my studies.

It’s true I don’t want to join fraternities or cheer at football games. I’m nearsighted and lame.

Davidson I’m putting my ink-stained shoulder to the wheel.
