THIS WEEK

Letters To The Editor

Salvaged Honor Code Receives Support, National Sanity Requires Nixon Ousting

To the Editor:

I am writing in regard to Mr. Blakley’s column on the honor system. This past week's column is such a poor piece of journalism that I seriously question whether Mr. Blakley should be given the responsibility of writing a column which merits space in print. Specifically, Mr. Blakley’s statistics on cheating under the honor code are blatant fabrications which no thinking person would use to substantiate his argument. Since I was a transfer student, I have been at Davidson only two years, but I have always observed the honor system to be working. Someone who has attended another college can rapidly recognize the difference in Davidson students, and the fact that they do believe in the honor code. The honor system is certainly one of the unique advantages of Davidson College which makes this a superior school. I do not deny that book theft from the library is a problem, but it is a problem that we as students can handle, by reminding others to check out their library books. I have not yet encountered any students who were ripping off library books. I doubt that few support Mr. Blakley’s attitude or beliefs. I hope and, in fact, feel certain that Davidson students will continue to value and uphold the honor code.

Jim Paulsen '74
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Please recommend to Mr. Alan Blakley that he send a copy of his column published in the Jan. 18, 1974, DAVIDSONIAN to some of the larger research firms around the country. Surely whatever mysterious source Mr. Blakley has access to for gathering his figures in the areas of lying and cheating would fascinate these firms as much as it did me. What new math gave Mr. Blakley the mystical figure that told us, “...if every guilty person were taken to trial the honor court would be in session for the next 24 years and seven months?” And just how “his sources” calculated that “...about 70 percent of the Davidson figures hand, for then Mr. Blakley would be in violation of the honor code which he signed before entering Davidson to the effect that he would report violations he had knowledge of. Or could it be that he is one of those found laughing at that reminder? I hope he enjoys his joke. As to Mr. Blakley’s statement that “considering that the average Davidson professor doesn’t read the current literature in his field, your basic plagiarist can and does get away with anything,” perhaps those professors under whom Mr. Blakley has studied should take note. Meanwhile, I would be happy to offer the names of some professors whom I am sure would be able to quickly dispel this misconception. It seems amazing to me that anyone who has such a low opinion of the honor system has survived almost four years at Davidson. Perhaps some other members of the senior class can work to bring a new effort into the Davidson community to salvage the honor code which Mr. Blakley has apparently abandoned.

Bob Penny '76
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I feel that I must write this letter as a public expression of my concern for the American nation. I sense the continued development of a sickness in this nation which is led and exemplified by its government. This sickness of legalized suppression of truth, legalized injustice, the religious legalization this has obtained must find a cure or the nation as the upholder of the Deistic principles of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence will become like the regimes of Soviet Russia and Chile. They have “Watergate Affairs” every day and they always forget about the event of the past and get along.

Gus Succop
The Davidsonian
January 25, 1974

Seven Proposed Calendar Leaves Vacationing Turkeys Cold

I want to invite everyone to go see “The Day of the Turkey,” a really great family movie. Second, did you know that next year the average Davidson student (2.7) will not receive a Thanksgiving Vacation with his tuition? Day, think of all the turkeys that will be saved from a merciless death. Now, take 3 ounces of Bevalium sauce and baste a 2-pound Davidson yearling; mix until you smell a 4-1-4 rising, and serve until your guests think they taste turkey. If that doesn’t satisfy your...with the affairs at hand.” We cannot do this and are not doing this. It is more evident to me every day that for this nation to return to health it is necessary to impeach Richard M. Nixon from the office of President. Then we can assess to what degree this nation is dented up. I am not satisfied with the silly putty he is filling the dents with now. It keeps dripping out. The only way to remove the dents is to take a hammer and pound them out.

Wilson Gunn '74
Davidson College

To the Editor:

An acquaintance of mine who is attending Davidson took the liberty of mailing me a complimentary issue of "DAVIDSONIAN." Specifically, the issue dated January 1, 1984. I must say, I was quite amazed at this "publication." As the initial shock wore off and I wiped the tears from my eyes, I allowed my roommate, who resides in Charlotte, N.C., to gaze at your paper. He immediately denied any past knowledge of Davidson. After everyone on our floor had gaped at your features, we all decided that "THE DAVIDSONIAN" is a raunchy paper. Keep up the good work! So, now you may truthfully call your paper a "widely read publication" (among various other names). Rest assured that we at Purdue hail your efforts. But try a bit harder next time, huh?

Royce Harmon
Purdue University

Miles Ward

Take all the money you would normally spend on a Dinner for 1,200 - Thanksgiving and now let it buy all the hatred, lust, decadence, debasement, corruption, and war that it is worth. When you have secured all of the latter items, collect them in a mixing bowl and beat relentlessly until liquified; spread evenly over ¾ of the western world (if you want, heat at 450 degrees and serve red hot). Disregard the thought that some families regard T-Day as a day as sacred as Christmas. No war and no hatred are useless dreams, especially coming through clearly. Two points for the 1974-75 Academic Calendar; personal foul on the Davidson student for thinking he was getting a Thanksgiving Day Vacation next year. Bevan at the line shooting until he makes one. Good night. I’m going home to hide my Christmas vacation under my collection of old "Life" magazines. By the way, "The Day of the Turkey" is rated "G". So let’s all go see it as a group - all for one and four one four, etc.

East Vets Relive Uneventful Era

Someone had posted a sign on the bathroom door saying that the seniors who used to live on this hall would be coming up tonight for a party and that everyone was invited and to expect anything. So by eight o’clock everyone was standing by, waiting for the explosion. Twenty leaders back together. Drinking beer just like a few years ago, shouting a person’s name when they see him. Bruce, my man. What do you say? How are the old burgers Bruce? How about a quick Myers? While most of the current Fourth Sentelle crowd look at what is taking place, only one or two and a hall counselor join in with the veterans. No one wants to talk about new things, so talk goes back a year, maybe three. Seen Allport? Give me a plate job, Kittrell. I heard Andy was coming back. Who called Jones? Just because no one came back, the reunion didn’t seem any less important. So you heard from med school, huh? Tell the Phantom. Soon everyone remembered what things were like, how the hall looked and smelled. It had the same feeling because the same people were around. But thinking about the years in school made the changes in everyone seem very clear. So you figure every year from now on will bring this many changes, even though it never seemed that way before. People who changed and had watched your changing. Yell at Cannon for a while. Then somebody walks by and smiles with pity at what’s going on and leaves soon. “Yeah, but there’s never been anyone around here like us. We were together, man. We really knew everybody.” Somebody should get some pictures. You just wait till tomorrow, we'll beat West Virginia. And you write something. Let everyone know about Fourth East. Just make it funny, we don’t want anymore of that bullshit. The value of the year. Do something anyway. Write about your friends. Anybody got any pictures? Some pictures of friends who can see things that I do not, and will let me write about them anyway.