The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE
IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
—Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STYKES, Business Manager

FOUR

FEBRUARY 15, 1974

Exam Worrying Insanity

The Winter Term Panic

Alumni correspondence at Harvard and Princeton recently revealed that many graduates of these universities are plagued by recurring nightmares.

Remember a thing called prayer if that doesn’t seem to be working? Took notes on all that reading? Whispered consultations fill the hours: “I hear he loves to sneak in one or two...”

The nervous toll of exams rivals pre-battle agony. Will I fight, or will I run? Committed to the fight, we think up sneaky new ways to run. Take all hustlers. Since their schedules do not allow them time to read the DAVIDSONIAN, we can speak disparagingly of them.

Why is there not a separate evaluation method for us humans who see 4:00 a.m. pinball games as a preventative hygiene against middle-age ulcers?

And then, is it such a weakness early in the afternoon to be laid by the rack monster?

A final evaluation satisfactory to all has been discovered, so our task is to learn to live with exams. Learn to live with pressure, simply. Bow to pressure, and you might go looking for a tree and a rope at the end of the day. Look at exams for what they are, a little bit bigger test for someone else to judge and you'll keep your head, when everyone else, etc. Evaluate yourself over a whole term, and exams will be put in their place. The sun does come up the day after.

The idea that we prove or damn ourselves by exams is a fallacy.

To Florida Beaches And Back Again
The Winter Term Panacea

If you can’t bring yourself to face the exam just yet, then spring break talk may be just what you need. For probably everyone at Davidson has recently said to someone that it’s hard to believe that the winter term has ended so soon.

And if there are over 1000 students at Davidson, there will be over 1000 variations to spring break 1974, a time when unlike Thanksgiving and Christmas, students scatter to the four winds. Some will go to Florida beaches, some to Bourbon Street (in a liquored daze), and others to assorted obscure places to redo their nerves. But whatever the destination, the break offers a chance to recharge and return with renewed energy and other blessings that we can’t think of at this moment.

Faculty Guest Column

Ark Enemies Stifle College Self-Study

By DONALD L. KIMMEL, JR.
Professor of Biology

Rumor has it that someone is building an ark. Screened by nights of winter rains, by a barrage of words, by seven new committees to distract the faculty, by several giant steps added to the students’ Route to the Future, and by the Brick Curtain (You thought that was a library going up behind Chambers, didn't you? Remember the sign? “The future site of the Little Library.” No dishonesty here.) Somebody is rumored to be building an ark.

The schedule says that the water table will rise above the Piedmont on Feb. 22, (4 days after Washington's birthday), at which time will embark two administrators, two secretaries, two trustees, two offices for each, two basketballs, two dollars, two grant proposals, two reviews, two innovations each for two new programs, two students, two meal tickets, two tenured faculty, and two books. Enough, in short, to float somewhere sunny and start two Institutions of Higher Learning.

Creating such a plan is no trivial matter. The first overt sign of the scheme was the “Blue Skies” curriculum, designed to obscure true intent within a high-pressure atmosphere. But the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools: “each member college and school will perform a decennial search for and examination of its umbilicus” (or words to that effect; the term ‘navel’ was considered too direct a clue).

Under the rubric of “Institutional Self-Study Program of the Commission of Colleges,” then Davidson proclaimed a cloudless curriculum and banished lows to lesser institutions.

As Richard Goodwin wrote in a recent “New Yorker Magazine,” we hoped that, “through the just and rational organization of the productive forces, the human energy that had been devoted to sustaining life might be reduced, liberating people to fulfill the more expansive possibilities of their humanity.” All academe can rally about such a philosophy. Students found more options and flexibility. Faculty found the necessity to re- and re-evaluate the justice and rationality of the fair-weather organization, which is what faculties like to do. Administrations replicated best in the summer.

And in the winter of ’74 the diabolical cleverness of the grand plan began to appear. With the storms gathering on the horizon, the next self-study crept onto the Davidson campus. Realization that the faculty is too busy, that the students are too busy and too unorganized to participate effectively in an institutional introspection came with the rains. The self-study settled on us as an imposition because we have neither the time nor the inclination to penetrate much haze.

The queries that guide our look at ourselves are broader than we need, and do not adequately direct us to collectively examine the pertinent questions: How should the college evolve with respect to its Christian tradition? How can we rise within a Blue-Skies curriculum, a departmental and course-by-course format, and the perpetual tug between learning “facts” and learning to learn, to liberate ourselves to fulfill our more expansive human potential?

How can we free time and energy to create the “community” we so sorely need, to test the faculty's inclination to be scholarly, to give students more flexibility of learning and more options related to their living here? How should we be governed?

We are organized to study these questions, and we don’t need the trammel of more questions and more committees that further divide our time and energy, that further hide the ark.

The next step in the plan was the discovery of the plan itself, and now you know that the ark—that intense, literary symbol—may be there. What we are not doing is what is floating away. What we should be doing is keeping it from floating away.