Twelve

February 1, 1974 The Davidsonian

Steve Rogers And Bucky Barnes

Dimly Lit Passage Awaits Coming

foiled evil, I have been delivered from the depths of

to you.

Friday, February 1

“China”

Sunday, February 3

Monday, February 4
all day
10 a.m.

10 a.m.

all day

Thursday, February 7
all day NCNB
all day

Up ‘n’ Coming
all week Art Exhibit: Wilson Gunn

4:30 p.m. Jack McMichael

6:30 p.m. Fellowship of Christian Morrison Room
Athletes

10 p.m. Davidson Staff
Meeting

Pilot Life Insurance

First Union National Bank Martin Room

Lehigh Portland Cunningham Room
Cement
8 p.m. Lecture: John Biddle Love Auditorium

dense vegetation starting to close around me. A deep fear came into my very marrow for I realized I had made a fatal mistake. I was trapped in the jungle of Humanity.

C. A. had told me tales of this horror of horrors, and how I was never to venture near their enticing tentacles. But it was too late, I had nowhere to go but ahead, towards the unknown.

After an unknown duration of time, I stumbled into, amazingly enough, a small clearing.

At the exact center (no shit folks, I measured) there stood a tiny white cottage in front of

Honors Foyer
Honors Center

Davidsonian Office

Martin Room
Hodson Hall

Martin Room

Dore Pinch

(Continued from page 1)

to deprive the students of this for that many months,’ he said.

The letter also states that

involve needless

Meetze indicated that operating the bookstore in the Grey Library while renovations are underway

Richardson is the prime location for new student

A single ray of light revealed suddenly that my

Axeman (Enter nasty music).

me unto a table laden with my favorite delicacies, 2 hamburgers, and a chocolate shake.

drowsiness seeped over my entire being. I longed for the security of my “ted-

As I slumped into Never-Never land the last intelligible words I could utter were “old man, did you drug my burgers?”

He merely chuckled and replied “Any other guesses?”

A moment later, as I was about to enter unconsciousness, he spoke once more: “A hot tip for you Young Buck, not only those burgers but the chocolate shake too: Muuhuhahaha. (For you who do not partake in comic book literature, this is a

I awoke with what I in- to be an overload of THC.

To my nasal cavities came

ticular emphasis to future implications - 15 minutes; 10 pts.

2) Explain what happened to the Middle Ages in 500 words or less - 10 minutes; 10 pts.

3) Compare and contrast (a) Scandinavian drama from 1205 - 1221 A.D. (b) The effect of the Norman Conquest on Polish Sausage - 30 minutes; 10 pts.

4) Trace the development of prehistory in 4 days or less - 30 pts.

Even if I answered all these absurdities within the required time, you will notice that I still could only at best receive a 60. The Axeman explained he was taking 40 pts. off before the questioning began because I had made light of his genuine Lester Maddox axe handle.

At this point in the time and space continuum, I will finish this tale to my savior and ally, the part-time immortal, C. A.

Thank you Young Buck.

After it dawned upon me that Young Buck had truly disappeared and not just ventured off on an impromptu run, I began searching high and low (mostly high).

After searching continuously for the entire summer and fall without success I began to grow despondent.

At the height of my despair, I felt compelled to meander over to the religious hole of

With my X-ray vision (super hero standard equipment) I perceived the insidious, hideous Axeman, perched over the book-binding Young Buck.

Take it from here, Y.B.

Thanks C.A.

As the edge of his sharpened steel neared my sweaty throat he suddenly halted and with a gesture totally out of character he asked, “wanna last por Bie?”

Being Young Buck, after about 10 milliseconds of pensive thought, I said, “Okay, Axeman.”

I gathered all my courage and spoke. “Well, if it’s not too much hassle, could you trace the development of pre-history for me?”

I thought I had him with that one, cause it would have taken him at least a month of Sundays to answer my request but, he only grinned and shook his head as I detected the slight sound of his dial-a-matic selector in the axe blade from “no-dice” to “slice”.

But as fate would have it, I had inadvertently stalled long enough to allow C.A. to sneak up on the Axeman.

I opened my eyes just in time to see that damned red, white and blue garbage can lid smack that dastardly villain on the side of the head.

“Goodness Gracious” the Axeman exclaimed, but as he recognized his attacker as the hero Captain America, he let loose with his famous war cry “Flunk You, C. A.”

But C. A. was not to be denied as he cried, “Axeman, I’m gonna kick the writ out of you,” he sobbed.

The Axeman was no match for Cap’s legendary street tactics, such as the impelling of C.A.’s size 12 Converse all-stars in the strategic location of the poor, poor villain’s groin.

We wish to inform you of our united action against evil and honor code disobedience is now in full force once again, so cool it.

Axeman stood trial for his but was acquitted, because he pleaded insanity. He is presently serving a life term at a small liberal arts school in the Phantom Zone.

Tough break for a great competitor. Long may he rave.

‘the you've got 5 thumbs

First Union National.

DAVIDSON