Fourteen October 25, 1974

Paul Mitchell

ONE WAY STREET (Photo by Goodman)

The Cats have had great success along the beaten trails this year. The Mench Wildcat Harriers Run Dual Meet Win
Streak To Nine. Martin’s Marauders continue to drive all opposition before them and have extended their dual meet streak to
nine for an overall tally of 9-2. Monday’s second place finish in the annual Davidson 5-way meet was as precedent-shattering
as their other feats in this watershed season.

On Saturday, Oct. 12, the cross-country team rolled on over to Buies Creek, N.C. for a triple meet with host
Campbell College and Gardner-Webb. Sophomore sensation Coty Pinckney led the Wildcats to victory with a scorching 28:17 pace over the
five-mile course. Team Captain Rick Bell claimed second place in this.

Sam Cuts Beer, Shuffles Seats In Jock Priorities

At this last meeting, Chip Stone made the gutsy decision of no beer allowed during Flickerball games. It occurred to
me that Chip could not have been the driving force behind this decision. After all, when was the last time
you saw Chip Stone at a flickerball game? When was the last time you saw Chip Stone? When was the
first time? The point is that, as is the case with most IMAC affairs, Chip doesn’t really care. I had
a hunch that perhaps this decision originated from the desk of College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. After all, all
roads lead to Rome. So, I conferred with my administrative contact, Herbie Klondike.

“Herbie, did the president have anything to do with the beer decision?” I asked.

“The President admits having no prior knowledge of, nor having partaken in, the actual decision concerning the beer. The president,”
continued Klondike, “has a deep love for the students and an even greater love for beer here at Davidson.”

“Are you sure the president had nothing to do with the decision?” I asked.

“Well, actually he did,” said Herbie, “but it being a controversial decision and all, we thought it best to keep
the president out of it. After all, he’s busy with plans for his, I mean the school’s, new radio station.”

“I was wondering what the need behind the decision was,” I asked.

“Well, uh, you see, we feel that beer during flickerball games is antieducational, and besides, tests show that it leads
to venereal disease and heroin addiction,” said Klondike.

“I didn’t know flickerball was or had to be educational,” I said.

“Well, originally it wasn’t,” said Klondike, “but they are installing bookcases in the bathroom stalls so students can study and
carry on.”

“Do you think that the no beer decision will in the long run benefit the students?” I wondered out loud.

“The students, what students? Oh, you mean the students here. The hell with them. Since when do we make decisions
around here to appease the students? We thought that the no beer decision would enhance our Presbyterian appearance. This would
enable us to get more money from our alumni, which in turn helps us to expand our services to students
and the community through projects like slum housing,” Klondike reminded me.

“I never realized that all that malt deprived the college basketball games?”to get funds,” I added.

“Most of the students don’t realize it either,” replied Herbie. “But we’re gonna give the students a chance to make
back the money they’ve lost for us. Remember those nice seats you students used to occupy at the Coliseum this
year? We’re gonna sell them to all the rich alumni. Of course, the team may lose the home court advantage,
but at least we’ll be in the black again this year.”

“I’ve got an even better idea,” I offered. “Why don’t we have this basketball team move out of Johnston Gym
altogether, and repaint the floor for tennis. We could raise millions by turning the gym into a tennis club.”

Klondike didn’t say a word, he just smiled.

I was exuberant. Rick Deal, Bob Lautensack, and Jeff Neikirk finished together for third place. The final scores were Davidson
24, Campbell 32, and Davidson 18, Gardner Webb 42.

The following Monday found the Wildcats in Virginia competing against old rivals VMI and Washington and Lee. Their performance over
that treacherous mountain course must rate as one of the most outstanding races ever run by a Davidson team. In
this competition, Pinckney finished first again for a total of five consecutive wins. While in Virginia, the Wildcats thrashed the
W&L Generals 24-35, and the VMI Pirates 23-35. A double victory over these opponents is unmatched in recent memory.

Head Coach Sterling Martin said, “Coty was super for us as usual. Freshman Bill McClement’s running second is extremely encouraging
for the future. Jesse Smith, Deal, Neikirk, and Lautensack came in again together and we were able to offset Bell’s
absence.”

On Saturday, Oct. 19, the Wildcats overwhelmed St. Andrews and Pembroke’s B-Team at Laurinburg. Pinckney, McClement, Lautensack, and Smith made
the scorer see red in the first few places. Bell and Deal completed the scoring in the 6th and 8th
places respectively.

At Davidson’s 5-way meet on Monday, Oct. 21, the Wildcats placed second only to Pembroke. Davidson overcame Wake Forest, High
Point, and Appalachian B. Pinckney, at 32:00 for six miles, missed his sixth consecutive win by two seconds to Pembroke’s
Marion Graddock. The next Cat over the finish line was McClement at 33:42 in tenth place. He was followed by
Smith and Lautensack, and Neikirk finished 18th at 34:17.

The biggest remaining challenge for the Harriers at this point is to avoid injuries in their last two regular season
meets as they compete for the Conference race at William & Mary.

Coach Named

Coach Bo Brickels named James Brown as junior varsity basketball coach and recruiter for portions of the south. Brown was
appointed to the position Wednesday. Brown is a 1974 Catawba College graduate. He played four years there and was part
of the Catawba team that won the Carolinas Conference championship. He is also doing graduate work at the University of
North Carolina at Charlotte.

Cotton Flannel — a decided Halloween treat-for-all. Visit our “trick or treat” booth at the homecoming fair Saturday, Oct. 26.
For Halloween cards and decorations and all occasion gifts, visit The Village Store. Only 6 miles north. 1913 Shine MOORESVILLE,
NORTH CAROLINA.
