FIRE AT WILL

Two members of the Davidson rifle team get into position for some invigorating target practice.

Duke, High Point Exact Toll On Booters

By FRANK STIEFEL
Staff Writer

Last Friday at Davidson, the Wildcat soccer team played a top 20 ranked team for the second time in a week, with the opponent this time being Duke University.

Due to the fine playing of this year’s team, as well as the importance of this contest, an excellent crowd was on hand.

However, things did not start off well for Davidson this time. From the onset, Duke showed an excellent passing game which enabled them to keep the pressure on.

Davidson managed to get the ball into Duke territory, but seemed to always lack that one last break necessary for scoring. In the meantime, Duke’s offense was still moving well and, with about a third of the first half gone, they finally beat the tough Cat defense.

After this Duke score, the Cats still couldn’t get their offense going, and Duke had the pressure on again. Great playing by the Davidson defense as well as several good saves and long kicks by goalie Charlie Slagle managed to keep Duke at bay.

Unfortunately for Davidson, the half was a minute too long, as a Duke penetration finally ended in a score. At half, the score was Duke 2-Davidson 0. As the second half started, it was quite obvious that Davidson had no intentions of giving up. Right away the Cats put the pressure on Duke, also managing to almost completely shut off the Blue Devils’ offense.

However, Davidson was still having trouble getting a good shot off - a problem that plagued them all day. Finally, midway through the second half, Duke was called for a hands violation. Tom Blackwood put the Cats on the board, scoring on the penalty kick.

Davidson continued its assault on the Duke goal. However, two sensational saves by their goalie, along with several missed chances by Davidson, proved to be too much for Davidson, as they lost 2-1. Davidson had totally outplayed Duke in the second half, but just couldn’t get a break.

On Tuesday, Davidson hosted High Point College.

Davidson scored first, as Joe Duncan got a head-in after a scramble in front of the goal. High Point came right back though, scoring on a long breakaway.

As the half was nearing completion, Davidson managed to go ahead, as Grizzard scored after a kick by Joe Duncan.

Early in the second half, High Point came back to tie the game up on a goal after a good save by Slagle.

Davidson continued to keep on good offensive pressure, and finally scored on an excellent long lob shot by freshman Chuck Fiden.

However, Davidson’s defense couldn’t keep a persistent High Point team from scoring, or keep themselves from scoring, as the Cat defense scored for High Point while trying to clear.

It was a definitely disappointing tie for the Cats, as High Point was not expected to give Davidson that tough a battle.

The Cats play Appalachian today.

GOING DOWN
Davidson goalie Charlie Slagle assumes the prone position.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M.A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary

The Davidsonian October 11, 1974

Eleven

Shooters Aim At Matches, Winning Season In Sights

By CHUCK KENNON
Sports Editor

Following two years of “building,” the Davidson College rifle team has come of age. This is the optimistic picture presented by Capt. Abel White of the ROTC department, the director of the team.

“In the past I’ve been trying to generate interest in the team. At the same time I’ve wanted to establish a realistic schedule. I believe that this year will be a success in both respects, and I’m pretty sure we’ll have a winning record,” White predicted.

White bases these hopes on the ability of returning shooters and the strength of the other schools in the Southern Conference.

The rifle team has seven definite returning lettermen, White said. He stated that all of these are capable of turning in consistent scores of 250 out of 300 possible points. Bob Anders and Pete Goodman are probably the best consistent shooters on the team, according to White.

There are also five new shooters who have indicated interest in the program.

The fact that Mary Turner graduated has created an opening in the five-man varsity, and the search is on for someone to fill her sling. “I believe that either Curt Goho or Dallas Kirkendol will take her place on the team, but the slot is still open,” White said.

Predictions for a good season are also founded in a belief that Davidson is prepared to compete with all other teams. “The Citadel and Clemson have the biggest programs and are always strong. We are even with some schools and there are others we always can defeat,” he explained.

White is chairman of the Southern Conference Rifle Association for this year. He said, “I’m pleased because this year, for the first time, the Southern Conference will have full representation.

“East Carolina and Furman have added teams. This is great because now all those schools have marksmanship programs and that is what we want - to generate interest in marksmanship.”

The Davidson team is currently engaged with practice three days a week. The first contest is a tournament on Nov. 16. The first match here is Jan. 11.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 - 7. — Wed. 9 - 12, — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Phone 892-0208 Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main St.

Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

The Shoe Scene
including Hiking Boots and Jeans, too!

Use your Automatic Charge Account

Only 6 miles north

ESTABLISHED 1912

John Mock & Son
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA