Preliminary Union Plans Announced

By BRUCE CORSER and RICHARD ROMEYN

Plans for the conversion of the Grey Library into a Student Union have been completed by Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr. Finalization of the plans is expected by the end of the term, with renovation beginning as soon as the books are moved to the Little Library this summer.

The blueprints drawn by Meetze emphasize redecorating rather than restructuring the present building. The alterations will start,” said Meetze, “it will possibly faculty would receive their mail, a ground level snack bar/lounge and terrace. Additional lounges and a

Drawings by both students and members of the administration have been favorable, for the most part. Director of the Union C. Shew

Six Spaces Created In English Exchange

By TOM BRUCE Senior News Editor

Students are reminded that there is an informal hour every Thursday morning at 10 a.m. for students, faculty, and administrators. Coffee and Cokes will be served.

The space allotted to student offices. However, he said that the inclusion of a student post office and snack bar would be essential. The Union and the Social Life Committee of the SGA

That the renovated Grey Library may serve for more than a decade,

President Samuel R.

$500,000, but indicated that the approved budget may be substantially less.

At present, the existence of a union prior to 1975 is uncertain. Various members of the administration have

Meetze has indicated that safety and efficiency considerations would prohibit the use of the Grey Library as a union during the period of renovation.

Seemingly, this would leave the present Student Union in limbo until sometime in February when the Grey Library would be ready for occupancy. “I don’t see how the college can go without a union building,” Smith said. “They'll probably have to delay plans for occupancy of the present union. Butner said he felt the present union serves a

Cooperate with Davidson in a

“Competition for places in English universities has become more intense every year,” explained Davidson's Director of Foreign Studies Fred Gaige.

“We are going to benefit from having entered into these

St

and Reading.”

Gaige acknowledged that the agreement is not an unmixed blessing. Because of the agreement, Davidson students who take advantage of the spaces will be required

College

Valuable purpose. “I wouldn’t want to see us go two terms without a student union building,” he said. Yet to be decided is the definite amount and source of capital for the Grey Library renovation.

Wednesday, a meeting of the Budget, Building and Grounds Planning Subcommittee now has to submit some concrete recommendations to the President by the first of the month.

BASEMENT

Storage

Morrison

GROUND LEVEL

Offices Lounge Lounge

Officials Ponder Possibility Of New Chemistry Quarters

By MARK WILENSKY Asst. Managing Editor

As Davidson studies development office is in-

Foundation given the

To pay about $3500 for the year abroad.

Formerly they could apply to the schools in

And pay the same charges as English students, plus air travel and assorted extra expenses.

East Anglia in Norwich, England. “If more and more students

College about supplying % of the cost of such a structure, if the college will raise the other

Cost of such a project in the area of $2 million. Spencer declined to name the foundation at this time.

Spencer pointed out that the

Try to go to England, there could be a shortage of spaces,” Douglas stated. “Among the four Davidson

30 since England is traditionally popular with Americans

A year of college abroad.” In any event Davidson

Support other causes as they wish.

Building would be a project similar to the E. H. Little Library. “This project will not only produce a building, but will give us a fully modern equipped facility ready for use upon completion,” he said.

“The Chemistry department needs new space and equipment,” Spencer said. “The question we face is whether to renovate Martin or go ahead and try to build a new facility.

“We estimate a cost of close to $ million to renovate the Martin building,” Spencer continued, “but renovation of

“If the Martin building were vacated we would have some of the necessary space for these departments. We couldn’t get this space if Martin were renovated for chemistry,” Spencer added.

Cornell pointed to what he

(See CHEMISTRY, Page 12)