Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

‘Masters’ Generates Laughter

The play revolves around a picaresque character, Truffaldino (Franklin Bencini), who takes on the service of two masters, one of
which he discovers to be a mistress. Beatrice Rasponi (Jane Reich) masquerades as her brother Federigo Rasponi (who was killed
prior to the action of the play), in order to search for her lover Florindo Arettusi (Tony Martin). This impersonation,
of course, leads to a number of comic consequences in the vein of “All’s Well That Ends Well.”

Beatrice, in her guise as Federigo, becomes betrothed to Clarice (Emilie Bryan) according to the wishes of her father Pantalone
dei Bisognosi. Clarice, however, is really in love with Sylvio (William Holladay), son of Dr. Lombardi (Graham Smith).

While all these affairs are proceeding at a hectic pace, Truffaldino becomes the servant of Beatrice and Florindo. Truffaldino, as
the purveyor of messages to both Beatrice and Florindo, constantly finds himself in a jam when he is requested to
carry messages to “his master.” The ensuing mix-ups furnish a number of amusingly awkward situations as Truffaldino is constantly beaten
with his own slap-stick for delivering the wrong message to the wrong master.

Emilie Bryan’s appealing portrayal of Clarice provides a number of superbly executed comic moments during the course of the play.
Constantly upset by either Beatrice or Sylvio, her complaints melt into torrents of sobs and tears accented by a distraught
flourish of her hanky. Jane Reich offers a strong and aggressive Beatrice, who in one horribly staged but hysterically funny
sword fight completely dominates poor Sylvio. Tony Martin, playing opposite her in the intrigue, presents a good version of a
fairly difficult role. As probably the only character in the play who is not a complete fool, Florindo receives good
treatment from Martin who represents him as practical and stable, an ideal contrast to the buffoonery in the rest of
“The Servant of Two Masters.”

Smeraldina (Susan Colan), the maidservant of Clarice, provides a transitional phase between the exaggerated mannishness of Beatrice and the farcical
femininity of Clarice. In this same way, the clever but knavish Truffaldino bridges the nebbishness of Sylvio and the masculinity
of Florindo. Thus, with the functioning of the three pairs in the play, Beatrice-Florindo, Smeraldina-Truffaldino, and Clarice-Sylvio, the play demonstrates
not only the battle of the sexes but also the various levels on which the battle is waged. The action
of the play ends after approximately twenty-four hours, with the three pairs destined to be married, an ending to please
even the strictest of Aristotelians.

---

Perhaps a better world is drawing near. Just as easily, it could all disappear along with whatever meaning you have
found. Despite his fear, resignation, and uncertainty, the author is still willing to seek a peaceful existence. Speaking to the
girl described as a dancer, he suggests that there may be a reason for her creation and development from a
seed to a dancer, and if this is true, she has nothing to lose by creating on her own (Go
ahead and throw some seeds of your own).

His conclusion is that “somewhere between the time you arrive and the time that you go/May lie a reason that
you are alive/but you’ll never know.” In the final song on the album, Browne speaks again on this theme. He
urges us to be patient, to enjoy those peaceful moments we do encounter, and to let “creation reveal its secrets
by and by.” This sounds almost like a resolution. One is reminded of the daydreamer on the second album who
was willing to wait patiently to discover in himself the essence of “Everyman.”

But then the one catch enters again. Browne goes apocalyptic, leaving us all rubbing our chins and wondering if anything
makes any sense as he sings the last words on the album:

And when the sand was gone and the tide arrived
In the naked dawn only a few survived
After the deluge.

No matter how pleasant this album is in some of its individual parts, it is not ultimately pleasurable except in
so far as we can appreciate it for the disturbing truths it reveals. There is little to ease our minds
and nothing to escape with on this record. We are left with the impression that we are all a bit
too late, for the sky. If Jackson Browne continues to develop as a writer and singer in the direction he
is now clearly headed, he will undoubtedly write his next album in Mobile, and we will surely be hearing the
Memphis Blues again. Until then, we can all attempt to deal with the exceptional “Late for the Sky.”Credit should rightly
be given to Mrs. Carol Barber for her fine costuming and for the fine set design by a newcomer to
the Drama Department, Joseph Gardner.

The Davidsonian
November 1, 1974
(Photo by Venable)

TURNING OVER A NEW LEAF
Senior Betsy Norman, while holding up a tree and holding down a pile of leaves, decides to study to pass
the time.

By JOE MCMILLAN
Associate Editor

A general rule is that nude scenes should be photographed in the same way as any other scene. The part
of the body below the belt should be photographed neither more nor less than it would be were it clothed.
Ken Russell, who understands many things about cinema, would no more force his camera to photograph a nude scene prudishly
than force it not to photograph Richard Chamberlain’s hands while he is pretending to play the piano. (The music on
the soundtrack of “The Music Lovers” is someone else’s but the finger movements we see are Chamberlain’s.) All of the
films by Russell have the wonderfully free, open-air quality that is so important for cinema. Even when Russell’s movies do
not work—which, for a complex of reasons, is fairly often—they are still recognizable as cinema in a real and positive
sense.

To photograph a nude scene prudishly is like photographing a room with a chair in the middle of it and
for some reason alien to the art form avoiding the chair. This is not making a movie; it is playing
a game with the audience. Prudish directors suffocate their movies. All of which is intended as an innuendo upon the
annual situation and a direct condemnation of Mike Nichols’ “Carnal Knowledge.” The film is about varieties of sexual experience. Arthur
Garfunkel and especially Ann-Margret and Jack Nicholson are often shown nude but never frontally nude. As a consequence, the film
becomes slicker than it is already and a rift in the form is aggravated.

“Carnal Knowledge” is a libertine, deadpan black comedy by a comfortably middle-class director. Jules Feiffer’s consummate screenplay is as single-mindedly
vicious as his cartoons in “The Village Voice.” He observes well one aspect of one aspect of life, the unpleasant
side of the sexual side of life. The dialogue consists mostly of one-liners and monologues that show the cleverness of
the writer and the vacuousness of the characters. This screenplay presents a problem for Nichols, because cinema tends to demand
either rounded characters or stylization that incorporates unrounded ones. Feiffer is not interested in the former, and Nichols, who lacks
directorial talent, is incapable of the latter.

Perhaps Nichols is still sensitive to the critical rejection of “Catch-22,” for he does not even attempt to find comic
style in “Carnal Knowledge.” What effective style it has seems due to accident rather than intention. The film is slick
in mood because slickness is what results when all else fails. It is an ugly experience because Nichols is unable
to present ugliness in an aesthetically acceptable way. Unlike Ken Russell’s, Nichols’ films do not express a love of or
a vigor through cinema. I suspect Nichols may not even like cinema; he betrays it often enough. He is an
expert reader of the public pulse, and if a conflict occurs between what the public wants—say, Elizabeth Taylor in “Who’s
Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” or an R-rating for “Carnal Knowledge”—and what his films need, then the former wins out. One
of the most disgusting things about his films is his disgusting personality, which is all the more disgusting for being
hardly present at all. His films are colorless. As so often happens among film directors, a career of widely differing
films suggests that the director has nothing to express. The only exception I can think of is Louis Malle. Unlike
the slender thread that connects Malle’s films, the thread in Nichols is ugly. Nichols has the personality of Neil Simon,
whose plays he often does on Broadway. “Carnal Knowledge” is written for the screen, but there are times when it
seems a canned recording of a Simon play.

Nichols lacks an instinct for cinema, so I feel free to indulge my hatred of him. His only successful movie,
“Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” succeeds because it is vulgar and trashy. Taylor does everything but shout “Yahoo!” as she
lunges tastelessly through the film. As a friend of mine who is better versed in theater than I am has
pointed out, “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” is intended by Albee to be a serious work and not a carnival
for actors. In “Catch-22,” Nichols labors through a dull, pointless, competent Fellini imitation, and in “Carnal Knowledge” he does the
same for Bergman. Fellini, Bergman, Russell, and Malle are artists and virtually uncompromised ones. When they make a film, they
do it well, or at least with glimmers of talent. They seem to care for what they do. Nichols is
the opposite on all counts. He is, however, a sensitive director of actors. Ann-Margret and Rita Moreno do some wonderful
things in film more often than not, but this is only when they are on, which is not often.
