=) Twelve Friday, October 4 all week Exhibition Saturday, October 5 9, Wednesday, October 9 8 p.m. Fine Film: Thursday,
October 10 0 Friday, October 11 (Continued from page 11) on Monday. In memory of Dave “Tucson Two” Wolter now
residing in Nebraska, the Rincoon Rangers were formed, but Dave would be displeased with their first result. The SPE’s beat
the Rangers 24-7, and once again proved that they rank as the dog dung on campus. Not even Stinky will
go near ’em. These guys had their usual battalion of SPE’s and leading 24-0 they faked a kick-off to draw
the foolish Rangers offsides. Guess they are going for the sportsmanship trophy along with winning their own athletic point trophy.
In a biggie, SAE won an exciting game with the KA’s 51-32, led by the fabulous flickering of None College
graduate Peyton Prospere. Two of the KA TD’s were scored on sleepers. SAE will have to tighten up their “d”
if they are to defend their title. Look for the Cleveland Indians to be tough once again with the addition
of Randy “Football” Thomson as rusher and Kevin “the jack hammer” Brodie at safety, to their already tough returning lineup.
Next week more IMAC, maybe even more facts and less bullshit. Don’t count on it though cause we are highly
loaded with the crusty stuff. So, as Beachball bounces off to the sunset, M.T. goes back to chain smoking, Y.B.
goes to the grave to use their new bathrooms and C.A. goes to coach the sty, we leave you with
this pearl of advice from the SPE’s: If you’re down, cheat your way ahead, and then change your underwear. That
made no sense. What else is new.

With the addition of Joseph T. Gardner to the Theatre Arts department, Professor of Drama Rupert T. Barber is optimistic
about this year’s drama plans. Gardner will serve as technical director for the year’s first major production, Carlo Goldoni’s “The
Servant of Two Masters,” an 18th-century comedy in the style of the classic commedia dell’arte. This entertaining confusion of plots
and cross-plots will be presented in an 18th-century festive atmosphere. “We will try to create an environment of a carnival
day,” Barber explained. Performances will be given Oct. 31 through Nov. 2. Barber emphasized the importance of one major production
each term. This pattern will be followed this year, with Gardner directing the winter term production. “With Gardner, we hope
to spread out productions, giving students a little more opportunity to participate in drama,” Barber said. Workshops are planned throughout
the winter and spring terms and will feature several student-written and directed plays. These plans, in addition to the rumored
spring musical, will depend on student interest and talent. Barber asked that all possible musical stars and starlets note tap
dancing courses offered this term by the Physical Education department.

Up'n’ Coming Herb Jackson 8 & 10:30 p.m. Popular Film: “The Virgin And The Gypsy” 8 a.m. MEDCAT Chambers Banquet
Hall Monday, October 7 8 p.m. Film series: Love Auditorium “The Ascent Of Man” 8:15 p.m. Chamber Music Hodson Hall
Tuesday, October 8 2 p.m. Piedmont Lecture: Perkins Auditorium, Robin M. Williams 7 p.m. Worship Service DCPC 8:15 p.m. Drama:
“I Am A Woman”: Viveca Lindfors “Requiem For A Heavyweight” 10 a.m. Coffee & Cokes Chambers Banquet Hall 8 p.m.
Open End: Morrison Room Infirmary Doctors 8 p.m. Young Republicans Martin Room 8 & 10:30 p.m. Popular Film: “Kelly’s Heroes”
Stowe Galleries Love Auditorium Love Auditorium Love Auditoriumdepartment. Also planned are a children’s play this winter and a theatre wagon
at a future country fair. Barber indicated that the expanded drama program hopes to reach all interested students, offering them
more chances to participate in acting, directing, writing, and other aspects of the theatre.

Davidson Adds To Faculty
BY MARK GERGEN
Staff Writer

Davidson has eight new faculty members this fall. Thomas Cartmill, Tonia Devon, Charles Dockery, Joseph Gardner, John Kello, Robert Maydole,
Verna Miller, and Robert Till have joined the faculty to fill places in seven departments.

Director of Athletics Cartmill will be working with the Physical Education department.

Devon assumes the position of director of South Asian Studies. She received her Ph.D. at the University of California at
Berkeley this summer. Her undergraduate work was at both Grinnell, where she received an A.B. in history, and at the
University of Wisconsin at Madison. She is married and her husband is now a professor at the University of Wisconsin
at Madison. She has one four-year-old son who is living here. Devon was working in India during the Bangladesh War.
She is continuing research and will soon have an article attacking Jencks’ theory of education published.

Dockery is an assistant professor of French who received his Ph.D. in 17th-century French drama this summer from the University
of Iowa. Dockery was a Fulbright Fellow in France from 1965 to 1967, where he worked at the University of
Paris and the University of Montpellier. For five years before coming to Davidson, he worked at the Center for Franco-American
Studies in Maine. Dockery is continuing research in French-African studies. He is married, and his wife, Amelia, is a clinical
psychologist at Davidson.

Gardner is an instructor in the Drama and Speech department. He is still working on his Ph.D. in English drama,
which will entail study in London during the next two summers. Gardner did his undergraduate work at Davidson and worked
here as a technical director for a year after graduating. He has worked with the Davidson Community Players and various
Children’s Drama Workshops.

Kello is an instructor of psychology. He received his Ph.D. at Duke while he taught at North Carolina Central and
worked in the Aging Center. He is continuing research in the area of human memory and perception, working through criminal
learning. Kello is married, and his wife is a student here at Davidson.

Robert Maydole is an assistant professor of philosophy. He received his Ph.D. in philosophy at Boston University. While working towards
his Ph.D., he worked for five years at St. Joseph College in Philadelphia. He is starting research on cybernetics and
the effects of technology on future man.

Miller is an instructor in biology who will receive her Ph.D. this November. Her graduate work was done at Penn
State with much of the field work done in South Carolina. She is continuing work on the development and regulation
of social systems.

Till is an instructor in psychology who received his Ph.D. at the University of Minnesota in the area of experimental
psychology. He is continuing research on sentence comprehension and memory processes. He has worked for the Center for Research in
Human Learning.
