Two January 18, 1974 College Begins Periodic Self-Study

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD Managing Editor

The Steering Committee was elected to coordinate the self-study process.

HOME, SWEET HOME
Phi Gam members relax in their new off-campus house and watch the Miami victory over Minnesota.

Senior News Editors:
MARY HUBBIE
MARY TURNER

Operations Manager:
BILL ELLETT

Assistant Managing Editors:
MATTHEW COVINGTON
CHARLES RENN
LARRY MIMMS
MARK WILENSKY
KIETT HODGES

Assistant Sports Editors:
LESTER ABERGER
MARK CONNORS

Photography Editor:
LEX VEAZEY

Editorial Consultant:
DAVID TRADER

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
ERIC WALKER
JEFF NEIKIRK

Advertising Manager:
STEVE BALKCOM

Cartoonists:
PAULY
PATTI SHANKWEILER

Contributors this week: Pete Celentano, Bill Lloyd, Joe McMillan, Frazier Marsh, and Anne Pelfrey.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription $7.00.

The SACS manual for self-study states the reason for a periodic evaluation. The essential purpose of the Institutional Self-Study Program is the improvement of educational effectiveness in institutions of higher learning. The procedures of that Program are designed to help institutions reassess their objectives, measure success in attaining objectives, explore ways and means by which educational efficiency may be improved, and prepare for the ever-increasing demands by society.

Davidson's 1974 faculty steering committee is chaired by Professor of Political Science J. Harris Proctor. Other members of the committee are Professor of Economics C. Louise Nelson, Professor of Physics Robert J. Manning, Professor of History W. Brown Patterson, and Professor of French Hallam Walker.

The steering committee will distribute questionnaires in order to obtain student opinions concerning four areas. Area One is chaired by Bob Corlew, Bull Ralston, and Katie Early. The main topics...

SGA To Start

By STEVE BELL News Editor

The term as SGA got off to a good start with a senate meeting Tuesday night. In major business, the Senate appointed students to six positions on three faculty committees, and Butner was successful in pushing four of his nominees through. After three close ballots, the Senate chose Andy Lamas, one of Butner’s nominees, and John Taylor for the influential Educational Policy Committee; both are sophomores. Defeated for appointments were Martin Eakes (Butner’s other nominee), Mike Pappas, and Richard Romeyn. Andy Lamas is an active member of the N.C. PIRG organization, and he has worked with Steve Can-...

The steering committee has appointed Professor of Psychology and Education Ostwalt as director of the subcommittees, which will do much of the work involved in the study. The steering committee also has 10 subcommittees that will work with the faculty steering committee to cover virtually every aspect of the often complex...Workings of Davidson College

The committee and their chairmen are:

- Educational Program: Professor of Physics Locke White
- Faculty and Research: Professor of Religion Max E. Poile
- Library: Professor of BSc Dirk French
- Physical Plant: Professor of incl words topics of "student government, the honor system" Pat Morgan, Mark Connors, and Jeff Johnston will investigate academics.

The Self-Study report will be completed by March 15. Canterbury's ad hoc committee on grading policies. Lamas pointed to his work on Canterbury's particular interest and qualification. John Taylor is a member of the Honor Court. Speaking to the Senate, Taylor advocated and promised to work for a more liberal pass-fail option. Juniors Patsy Arnold and Gus Succop were appointed to the Student Life Committee. Both were nominated by Butner. Narrowly defeated for the SLC were Lynn Keener and Rick Roylance. After the second ballot, the Senate had given one of the positions on the committee to Succop, but the vote for the second position was tied between Arnold and Roylance; it was Butner’s first tie-breaking vote of the year that gave the office to Arnold.

Elected to the Public Lectures Committee were Forrest Flaniken and John Kepehar. Flaniken, a sophomore, expressed particular interest in the performing arts. Kepehar, a junior who has already been active with the PLC, was one of Butner’s nominees. Defeated for appointments to the PLC were John Alexander, Peter Alford, Bo Baskin, and Crawford Crenshaw.

The meeting was adjourned at midnight, and leftover business was tabled until next Tuesday night's Senate meeting. At that time, the Senate will fill positions on the Library Committee and the Counseling and Guidance Committee. The meeting is scheduled for 9 pm in Ph Hall.

Main Committees:

- Education: William H. Hight
- Special Activities: Professor of English Frank W. Bliss
- History and Purpose: Professor of History Frontis W. Johnston
- Organization and Administration: Professor of Psychology and Financial Resources John Kelton, Professor of Economics Charles E. Ratliff
- Admissions, Aid, and Enrollment: Professor of English Anthony S. Abbott
- Students: Professor of Mathematics L. R. King

The subcommittees have six to twelve members. Also, six administrative officials are spread throughout the committees, and students are on six of the committees. In addition, the faculty steering committee has asked students to organize a parallel steering committee. President of the SGA Blain Butner is the chairman for this committee.

Proctor explained that the faculty steering committee will compile the results of this complex analysis and will make recommendations for future changes in Davidson's policy. This report will be reviewed by a committee of administrators and professors from other institutions who will visit Davidson next year to examine the college personally. They will make their own report to the SACS, and their recommendations will serve as a basis for future development.

“As we see it,” Proctor concluded, “The self-study involves all elements of the college community in an effort to evaluate what has been accomplished over the past ten years and to formulate projections for the years ahead. The committees are hard at work now assembling reports which are already in existence and collecting additional data as a basis for their deliberations and recommendations.”