The Davidsonian
March 22, 1974

Morgan Rebukes Duke Power Rates
By ANDY LAMAS
Senior News Editor

State Attorney General Robert Morgan, Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate, spoke here Monday on a wide range of domestic issues. Morgan’s most controversial statement concerned his opposition to Duke Power's proposed 17 percent rate increase.

“I am opposed to the rate hike. Also, I do not think it’s proper for a power company to advertise its merits during the course of a hearing before the Public Utilities Commission,” commented Morgan.

The Attorney General also showed concern about Duke Power’s refusal to debate representatives of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC PIRG) on the Davidson campus. He expressed support for PIRG’s prescription drug legislation which is now before the state legislature.

“I think it would be helpful if prescription drug prices were posted in all pharmacies. The current price discrepancies are a tremendous burden on the poor and aged,” remarked Morgan.

The senatorial candidate also criticized President Nixon's handling of the nation’s inflation problem. “Four years ago President Nixon introduced the first $200 billion budget in the nation’s history and now the first $300 billion budget. It is amazing to think that he campaigned on a platform of a balanced budget,” declared Morgan.

“I’m for a strong defense, but I know the Defense Department could be run more efficiently and less expensively,” he argued. “One of the problems concerning defense expenditures involves the method of defense contracting. I favor a plan of competitive bidding for all defense contracts.”

Morgan also believes that reducing the number of federal employees and depending more on military reserves and the National Guard can help to cut inflation.

He avoided taking firm positions on the possibility of President Nixon’s impeachment, health care, and busing. “I think the House must move much more expeditiously in its impeachment proceedings, but I do not feel it would be proper for me to comment on how I would vote on the impeachment matter considering my future position as a possible juror in the Senate,” commented Morgan.

Complaining about the high cost of medical care but offering no health care plan of his own, Morgan attacked several current proposals. “Nixon’s plan is too expensive; Senator Kennedy's places too much burden on the taxpayer; and, I am doubtful about the AMA proposal,” stated Morgan. When asked what type of national health care plan he would support, Morgan said, “I have no real ideas on it.”

Candidate Morgan posited that every child ought to have the right to go to the school in his/her neighborhood but that busing is a necessary evil until school conditions in some areas of the nation are improved.

As Attorney General, Morgan claimed that he sponsored much of Lee Bounds’s (the former N.C. Corrections chief) innovative prison reforms, and he hoped that politics could be driven away from the government judiciary.

“Generally I am opposed to amnesty for men who were involved in the Vietnam War,” stated Morgan. Morgan continued by remarking that each amnesty case should be treated individually.

Morgan stated that he has based his campaign on his past performance in government. He said that his main areas of work are consumer affairs and law enforcement. “I instituted a program of consumer advocacy in the Attorney General’s office and have improved and increased the state’s law enforcement agencies,” commented Morgan.Campaign for the Democratic nomination on a budget of $400,000. He claimed that his opponent, Henry Hall Wilson, has violated the state’s campaign spending laws.

Spengler To Speak On Population, Aryana

William F. Spengler, Deputy Special Assistant for Population Matters, Department of State, will visit Davidson on March 25 and 26 to discuss the population crisis and the role of the United States in world population programs. He will meet with students informally, talk with classes, and present an illustrated public lecture on the topic "World Population Growth: A Present Danger" at 8 p.m. Monday in Perkins Auditorium.

Spengler is an engaging and effective speaker. He welcomes student comment and is eager to speak to those who might be interested in careers in the Foreign Service. Spengler will reveal a second side of his personality during his visit as well, when he brings his Foreign Service experience in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and his extensive knowledge of archeology and ancient coins, together Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. in a lavishly-illustrated slide presentation entitled "Numismatic Reflections on the History of Ancient Aryana." This lecture surveys the history of the Afghan borderland, a region which has seen perhaps more invasions than any other in the world, and whose history, from the time of the Persian emperors and Alexander the Great down to the Moghuls, is richly revealed in some of the world’s most beautiful coins.

Spengler is a distinguished Foreign Service Officer, whose long career has included consular service in Pakistan, a tour as political counselor in Kabul, and the post of country director for Afghanistan and Pakistan. He has also served as a professor at the U.S. Foreign Service Institute. His present post involves him directly with the United States’ effort in the management of the world population crisis.

Spengler’s visit is sponsored by the South Asian Studies Program as part of the Department of State’s Return Visit Program. Professor of South Asian Studies Hugh S. Plunkett participated in the State Department Scholar-Diplomat Seminars on South Asia and Population Matters last year.

FIND OUT IF YOUR FAMILY IS ELIGIBLE NOW

Food stamps are for people who support a big family on a small income. Or for elderly people who earn little and live on Social Security. Or for anybody with a small income who is eligible. Depending on your income, the government sells you food stamps at a big discount or gives them to you free.

AS GOOD AS MONEY

Food stamps are like money. You use them to buy food as if they were cash. They stretch your food dollars and let you feed your family better. With food stamps you can get twice as much food for your family without spending any more money.

IN GROCERY STORES

Almost all food stores take food stamps for food purchases. It’s a good deal for the store because it increases total business when you use food stamps to buy extra food.

YOU HAVE A LEGAL RIGHT TO FOOD STAMPS

Your legal right to food stamps is protected by Federal Law. In addition, you have a legal right to get food stamps as soon as you move to a new area. And you have a legal right to a quick decision on your application for food stamps.

You do not have to be unemployed or on welfare to be eligible for food stamps. However, you should check with your local welfare office to find out whether you are eligible, where to go and what to do. In some areas, the local welfare office even gives out or sells the stamps. If you run into any problems, write:

FOR INFORMATION: WRITE TO:
FOOD STAMPS
ROOM 301
1424 16th STREET N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036