The Vol. LXIII, No. Seventeen

Precinct II Heightens Security Procedures

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Managing Editor

Many students have noticed that the campus security building has undergone an extensive renovation in the past weeks. Also, there is an unusual three-wheeled vehicle putting around campus and a freshly painted sign—“Davidson Police, Precinct II.” The sign, the cart, and the renovated building are only outward indications of an intensification in security procedures at Davidson. Physical Plant Director and chairman of the Security Committee Grover Meetze, Davidson Lieutenant J. G. Hughes, and students like Senior Mitch Purvis have worked out the plan for more effective campus security.

There are three basic components of the revised security system: Precinct II and the main police station in town; the police cart, foot patrollers, and more direct communication between the student body and the security force. Precinct II serves as a junction for security activities. It is manned during the day by Hughes who directs activities and coordinates nighttime security. Hughes is responsible to the main headquarters in town and is responsible in operational matters to Meetze. The college employs four full-time policemen including Hughes, and two part-time policemen. Also, security man R. C. Sherrill serves although he holds no arresting powers. Officers Johnny Ferrell, Terry Springs, and Turner Stutts complete the full-time force, and officers Ronnie Lowrance and Charles Cook make up the part-time force.

The new security cart facilitates rapid investigation almost anywhere on campus because policemen can cut across campus instead of having to confine their driving to Concord Road and Main Street. Meetze emphasized, however, that the police patrol on foot 80% of the time. Also, college security police are now in direct communication by short-wave radio with each other, Precinct II, Meetze, and the main police station in town. Hughes praised the cooperation between campus police and students. “The officers are getting to know students,” he said. “I believe the system is going to work really well.”

Policemen in North Carolina are required by law to have a minimum of 168 hours of training in law enforcement. Davidson’s campus security policemen have either completed the training or are presently enrolled in Central Piedmont College. For eight hours a day for four weeks policemen study forensic science, radio communications, hand-to-hand combat, patrolling procedures, and other required subjects. Also, they must meet certain efficiency requirements in weaponry. All police on campus are certified.

Students must take a major role in security procedures if the revised system is going to work properly. Although students do not patrol the campus with the security force, they must keep their eyes open for strangers in the dorms and for any unusual activity on campus. Also, Hughes encourages students to register their bicycles and other valuables. An engraver is available at the security (See PRECINCT II, page 2)

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
February 15, 1974

(Staff photo by Goodman)
RENOVATED SECURITY BUILDING

Forty Apply To Fill Coaching Vacancy

GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

The search for a new head football coach here at Davidson College is now drawing to the final stages of consideration, with a new coach expected to be appointed sometime during spring break. There have been nearly 40 applications and inquiries concerning this position which have been received and considered by the college administration, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. “We have been contacted by many interested individuals, ranging from high school coaches, to assistant coaches and head coaches at other institutions,” Bevan explained. “We have narrowed the list down to four or five persons, one of whom we interviewed on campus this week.” Bevan went on to explain

Exam Schedule

According to the Registrar's Office, the official examination days for the winter term will be Monday. Examination envelopes may be picked up in Chambers Banquet Hall on these days between 8:40 and 9:15 a.m. for the morning session and between 1:40 and 2:15 p.m. for the afternoon. Envelopes will be arranged alphabetically by the student’s name. The yellow card will be detached and retained by the examination staff. Examinations may be taken in any class in Chambers with the exception of room 310 which is to be used exclusively by those authorized to use the charts and tables.Finished examinations may be returned as early as 9:45 for the morning session and 2:45 for the afternoon and must be returned before the deadline of 12:00 for the morning session and 5:15 for the afternoon. The time data must be indicated at the examination center when the envelope is returned, and the student may take the yellow card (which must be signed by the examination staff). The student should hold the yellow card until a grade has been received for the course.

The process now involves making inquiries at the institutions from which the final applicants came. This action is taken to check the information supplied by the applicant to the college, as well as to gain additional information as to the abilities of these persons. Bevan said he felt that there has been some "good quality" in the applicants that the college has received and considered thus far. He also explained what type of applicant the college was looking for. "Basically we are looking for three things in our new coach," Bevan commented. "Those things include experience at the head coaching level, someone with a good deal of coaching experience, and a man who has a good winning record." Bevan did not fail to express a deep desire of the college to obtain someone who was willing to work under the new guidelines which Davidson will be applying to its football program, beginning next fall. "We want someone who agrees with the basic tenets of the Davidson situation," explained Bevan. It was also pointed out that the college has received several applications from persons who have worked under similar situations in other football programs. Bevan noted that he was about to call one applicant who is presently a head coach under a program which is almost exactly the same as the one that will be here at Davidson.

A new twist in the proceedings came Monday, though, when a petition, signed by 48 of the 50 varsity football players from the 1973 squad, was handed to college President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and Director of Athletics Thomas Cartmill. The petition recommended the lone remaining assistant coach, Dave Roberts, for the head coach position. Bevan was quite frank in admitting that the administration "had not anticipated the petition." He did say that it was a great compliment to Roberts, who has not applied for the job. "I talked to him (Roberts) when we began the search for a successor to Fagg, and he explained that he was not interested in the job at that time," Bevan explained. "He still has not applied. But if he did, I am sure that he could still be considered for the position. We were extremely pleased when he decided to remain here after Fagg left. He will certainly be counted upon to help when the new coach arrives."

(See FOOTBALL, page 2)

Citizens To Distribute Food Stamp Information
By MICHAEL TANNER
Editor-in-Chief

Beginning in the first weeks of the spring term, an organization known as the Davidson Citizens Association will initiate a drive to distribute information about the federal Food Stamps program among those in the Davidson-Cornelius community who might qualify for the aid. Director of the College News Bureau Buck Lawrimore, who is also chairman of the Davidson Citizens Association, said that very few people who might need food stamps and could qualify for them know of the program. "The problem here is one of information," Lawrimore said, "there are many people in the area who could use Food Stamps, but most of those probably know nothing about it."

Food Stamps is a federal food subsidy program that allows low-income individuals to purchase food-redeemable stamps for less than their face value, the discount varying with the degree of the individual's need. Lawrimore commented that the task force for the drive will be strictly volunteer. Members of the citizens association and interested others will distribute the stamps information through existing community groups. Low-income church groups will be the first contacted. Lawrimore expressed hope that Davidson students would volunteer to help in the effort. "This is something students can do that's helpful, that's quick and involves no long-range commitment," he said. "If we have enough student help, we'll be able to assign a volunteer to every potentially needy group."

Lawrimore became interested in the Food Stamps program through his involvement in another (See STAMPS, page 2)