his “charming personality, his knowledge of how to raise money, and his ability to get along with those who had
money.”

Janie K. French, who served as Martin’s secretary during his 10 years as head of the college, credited his success
in fund raising to “this belief in the institution and the educational program he had to sell.”

Although he worked closely with the faculty, he considered himself an administrator whose role was one of support. He was
one of the prime movers in the development of housing for the faculty and staff.

According to Davidson, “He was not an educator, and he did not pretend to be. Yet he was extremely interested
in education, especially the library. It was he who proposed that the library be moved into a new building, and
he was able to get Mr. E.H. Little to donate the first $500,000 towards its construction.”

Martin’s lack of an academic background was the source of some controversy during his tenure, for as THE DAVIDSONIAN editorialized
at the time of his resignation, “Recognition for the excellent job of administration he performed for the college was often
lost in charges that the college lacked academic leadership.

“Criticism of this kind was more publicized than was praise of his administration. It was ill-treatment of a man who
worked tirelessly for the school.”

Davidson basketball teams under Coach Lefty Dreisell brought the college national fame during Martin’s years in office. He pursued a
middle-of-the-road course, contending that sports were “a desirable part of a school’s activities, so long as the tail doesn’t start
wagging the dog.”

Martin did not confine his activities to the campus. He served as chairman of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Planning Commission, and headed
a committee of Charlotte business and civic leaders to study merger of city and county governments here.

On campus, his office or his home was never closed to students. Among them he was the acknowledged frisbee champ.

On his 49th birthday, the Davidson ROTC band and marching unit greeted him at his door with a rousing version
of “Happy Birthday,” and a request that he inspect the honor guard.

Wearing pajamas and a robe, and shivering in the chilly November dawn, Martin inspected the cadets, then accepted a cake
and handshakes from hundreds of students and college employees.

Davidson said his popularity among students stemmed from his being “personable and being a buddy to them without having the
type of familiarity that breeds contempt. He had the ability to talk to them about things that interested them, and
of course, he played frisbee with them.”

According to Carolyn Bourdeaux, who was his secretary during most of his years as treasurer, his popularity among members of
the college community resulted from the “rare quality of making every person feel as if he were important to him.”

“I guess you would call it charisma. He was a wonderful man to work for and was respected for his
ability and integrity.”

During his tenure as president, honorary degrees came to Martin from King College, Wake Forest, Duke, UNC-Chapel Hill, Erskine, and
after his retirement, from Davidson.

The organic deterioration of his brain, which was to lead to his death, became noticeable in 1967.

“There was a real sadness among those around him when they realized that at 56, he was beginning to forget
things,” a former student said.

In his surprise announcement on Jan. 3, 1968, that he planned to resign on June 30 of that year, he
gave as his reason, “the increasing pressures and responsibilities of the office.”

The next day, when he came to Love Auditorium to introduce the chapel speaker, the student body gave him a
lengthy standing ovation.

“You always knew where you stood with him,” said a student leader at the time.

In his resignation statement he said, “I am certain that Davidson is on the threshold of probably the most important
period in its history. . .(It) will involve as you know, the blending of all the traditional strength that is
Davidson with the creative flexibility needed to make Davidson’s future the profoundly exciting and inspiring story it can and must
be.”

A DAVIDSONIAN editorial at the time noted, “In his resignation he modestly credits everyone but himself for the improvements that
have been made in the school during his tenure in office. Few of those familiar with the college’s development since
1958, would be willing to deny him credit for its growth.”

On the day after Martin’s death, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said, “Grier was truly one of nature’s noblemen;
unselfish, modest, warm, and kind. There was not an ounce of meanness in him.

“Men like Grier Martin do not come along very often. The sad thing for all of us is that we
lost him so early.”

This week unseasonably cool winds have whipped the flag flying at half staff on the campus where his work lives
on.
