~—y iy oN PEN COON el, (Courtesy of Lakeside Studio).

BEHOLD THE PRINTS.

Durer’s “Ecce Homo” highlights Lakeside Print Show

Lakeside Art Studio Exhibits

The Lakeside Studio will present for one day only a unique selection of Old Master, Modern Master, and contemporary prints.
The exhibit will take place Wednesday, Oct. 2, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center.
This collection is brought to the public under the auspices of Professor of Art Herb Jackson. Local collectors will have
an opportunity to view this collection of over 1000 original prints containing works by Durer, Callot, Piranesi, Blake, Rouault, Villon,
Whistler, Antreasian, Tobey, Peterdi, Hayter, Richard Hunt, and many others. Also in this collection will be a number of Japanese
woodcuts from the Ukiyo-e School along with numerous wood engravings by Henry Wolf which are proofs from the Wolf estate.
Area artists represented are Laura Grosch and Herb Jackson. All works displayed are available for purchase and range in price
from $5 to $5000. The total value of the show will be over $100,000.

The Lakeside Studio publishes editions each year by many artists from all parts of the country and all of these
prints are in the collections of major museums both in this country and Europe. Editions are printed not only by
the Lakeside Studio workshop facilities, but also those of the Landfall Press in Chicago, Fox Graphics in Boston, and Robert
Cale’s new workshop in Stonington, Connecticut. Director of the Lakeside Studio John Wilson, who will accompany the collection, will answer
questions both historical and technical.

Letter To The Editor

Convocation Provides Purposeful Fellowship

To the Editor:

As I am sure everyone is aware, this Friday marks the date for Fall Convocation here at Davidson. As usual,
students are counting the days until they can take off early for the weekend or sleep for a few extra
hours. This is the way it has been for my past two years at Davidson, and I am sure it
will be the same for many this year. This lack of interest is really a disgrace to Davidson College. Many
hard hours of work go into the production of Fall Convocation, and it is a shame for students at a
school with no compulsory chapel to miss an opportunity such as this. Convocation offers one of the few chances for
the entire student body, faculty, and staff of Davidson to gather together.

I don’t mind admitting that Fall Convocation has been one of the most moving and meaningful ceremonies that I have
attended at Davidson. An indescribable feeling of pride swells up inside me when I see the senior class assembled as
a body in cap and gown; and as I see the faculty move in majestic academic procession down the aisle,
I feel glad to be a member of this organization. Certainly, it is ritualistic and traditional, but it is a
pleasure to see my classmates honored for their achievements, and to see a faculty member recognized for his or her
contributions to the teaching profession. To many of the students of Davidson, Fall Convocation will come and go this year
as it has in the past. Please make this year different by taking out a short hour of your time
to attend convocation.

J. Dean Copple
716 Davidson College

Off The Record

The Davidsonian
September 27, 1974

Seven

Ozark Mountain Daredevils: Earthy, Rocky, Harmonious

By LEE HUDSPETH
Staff Writer

The Ozark Mountain Daredevils, a new group of musicians, originated in the Colorado-Kansas area. Their first album, “The Ozark Mountain
Daredevils” was produced in 1973 and made popular by the radio promotion of two songs, “If You Wanna Get to
Heaven” and “Chicken Train.” These two songs are much less intense than the remainder of the album due to the
slightly humorous nature of their lyrics. The former is the only “rock” song on the entire record, and the latter
consists of a twanging mouthbow, much repetitious harmonica, a bit of percussion, some occasional chicken squawks, and very mysterious lyrics.
The other eight songs are down-to-earth, full, and meaningful both from a lyrical and a musical point of view. Each
song is arranged so that the vocal harmonies, interplay of instruments, and words complement each other. One of the finer
songs on this record is “Within Without” composed by Larry Lee. The lyrics deal with theMetaphor of a man’s body
being his house. Thus he views the world from two angles—from within his body and from without. The song expresses
displeasure with life and the futility multitudinous people experience because they fail to know themselves. The song begins with even,
single-stroked chords on an acoustic guitar with a low bass in the background. Then enters a mandolin, the note-line of
which serves as an introduction and complement to the melody to come. The melody itself is even and flowing. The
vocals are sung by a single resonant voice with powerfully sincere inflection. Between verses, a superbly smooth and light run
is heard on the lead guitar, then as the words cease, the instruments join in a magnificent conclusion. The lead
guitar re-enters intensely, highlighting the determined searching mood of the entire arrangement, and each instrument adds to the creation of
a climax after which they all slowly fade out. “The Ozark Mountain Daredevils” is indeed a quality recording of the
unique music of a group of close-knit and creative instrumentalists and vocalists. Each cut retains its own message and means
of communicating such; however, with a group as relatively inexperienced as the Daredevils, one must realize that the music tends
to become repetitive in places, thus obscuring its purpose. Nevertheless, the quality of that which remains is unquestionable.

Beginning Sept. 26, Mecklenburg County Fairgrounds on Rt. 21 will be hosting the Mecklenburg County Fair. This is one of
the largest fairs in the state and has in the past provided Davidson students with great fun. This year’s fair
will be bigger than ever with more rides and exhibits than ever before.

‘Bring Me The Head Of Alfredo Garcia’

Sam Peckinpah’s “Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia” is a disaster. The screenplay by Gordon Dawson and Peckinpah from
a story idea by Frank Kowalski and Peckinpah seems merely a vehicle for the director’s undigested fantasies and obsessions. The
main character and Peckinpah-surrogate is a fast-driving, sharp-shooting, tough-talking, hard-drinking, hard-loving son of a bitch with a heart of gold.
He plays piano in a sleazy Mexican bar until, faced with an opportunity to earn $10,000, he sets out on
what simply must be called an odyssey to find and bring back the reeking head of the late Alfredo Garcia.

He takes along with him several bottles of vodka, a picnic basket, his mistress, and his pistol. The mistress, heroine
to the film and sexual fantasy for the director, is a big-breasted earth-mother-type and multi-rape victim. The film is best
when it is most sensational; because then it is not boring, which is what it usually is. Making sensational scenes
that are not boring requires talent, and Peckinpah, like Ken Russell, has the gift. Peckinpah seems to be excited by
thoughts of murder, rape, and sadism, and when he is filming scenes involving these things, his excitement carries over into
his work. Violence sets fire to Peckinpah’s imagination, and his best choices of camera positions and inspirations of editing usually
happen while working on these scenes. In “Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia,” he creates a veritable poetry of
swerving cars, shooting guns, and falling bodies. Whenever a car swerves, a gun shoots, or a body falls, this is
when the film has one of its climaxes, which would be fine if the film were an abstract contemplation of
the beauty of the sights and sounds of violence. Unfortunately, it pretends not to be.

Peckinpah also concerns himself with character study, plot development, and thematic density. I have already given by implication my opinion
of his characterizations. The plot is more a progression of episodes than a development. In his hero and heroine, Peckinpah
seems to be trying to present his vision of ideal man and woman. The plot shows what happens to them
in a less than ideal society. The film is so ineptly done in these respects that it almost finds a
degree of success as an absurdist work or a deadpan comedy. However, interpreted in these ways, the film becomes even
more murky than it really is. “Bring Me the Head of Alfredo Garcia” is, I am afraid, a serious, sincere
work.

By JOE MCMILLAN
