Two September 20, 1974

Eko Bavidsonian

Davidson’s Face Mirrored In College Self Study Report

Every 10 years Davidson College gazes into the mirror, and Education Jay H. Ostwalt is director of the Self-Study. Also,
students provided direct input through a comprehensive evaluation that a student committee headed by SGA President Blain Butner submitted to
the faculty committee. Professor of English Frank Bliss has compiled a draft of the report, and the Steering Committee has
been formed.

Proctor explained, “As chapters are finished, they are sent to be typed. The final copy should be typed by Oct.
1 and be back.”

Bieter is pleased with the study. “It’s meant an awfully lot of work for a lot of people and I’m
grateful to them,” he acknowledged.

The Student report was submitted to the faculty committee. SACS may not permit such a study.

In mid-December, a visiting committee of faculty and administrators will analyze and interview Davidson faculty and students. The SACS committee
will arrive on Dec. 15 and will stay through the 18th. At the end of this time, they may make
further evaluative recommendations to college President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

Proctor does not know yet whether the Self-Study findings will spark policy changes at Davidson. He expects no systematic policy
change unless the SACS recommends something significant.

Preparations continue to ready the new E.H. Little Library for its dedication at Fall Convocation.

Co-Curriculum Established

In the midst of such discussion, the Co-Curriculum Program has been formed. The Co-Curriculum Program provides interested students, faculty, and
community members with the opportunity of pursuing non-curriculum courses outside of the regular college. Such a program allows its participants
to pursue their interests in both practical and academic areas without the usual academic pressure and competition.

On Monday, September 23, from 10 to 11 a.m. and 12 to 1 p.m. in the Chambers Building lobby, interested
students and faculty members will be asked to suggest courses in which they would like to participate. Continually soliciting suggestions
for new courses, the board members of the Co-Curriculum Program will offer campus-wide offerings. In addition to offering courses, the
board hopes to bring together all students, faculty, and community members who are interested in pursuing similar areas of study.
Complementary to Davidson’s regular curriculum, the Co-Curriculum Program adds flexibility and diversity to the college’s educational environment.

Davidsonian Staff

Executive Editor:
BOB HOWELL

Managing Editors:
MARK DEATON
GORDON WIDENHOUSE
MARK WILENSKY

Senior News Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
BRUCE CORSER
ANDY LAMAS
BRUCE MALOY
RICHARD ROMEYN
CHARLIE SHEPHERD

Assistant Business Manager:
DAVID TRADER

Contributing Editors:
JOE DUNCAN

Contributors this week: Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Pete Goodman, Bill Lloyd, Carlyle Sherrill, and Frank Stiefel.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to: Box 2182, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.

In the area of practical skills, possible course offerings include: auto mechanics, typing, cooking, upholstery, and music lessons.

Within the academic category, courses relating to all academic disciplines may be offered. Some examples include: courses in twentieth-century world
literature; studies of various writers, poets, artists, and musicians; studies in contemporary politics, economics, and education; special math and science
courses; and studies of dreams, sleep, and sleep learning.

The preceding list of courses is by no means exhaustive. Individual students and professors design the program’s curriculum according to
their own interests. The process is uncomplicated. A student or faculty member simply expresses to the Co-Curriculum Board his or
her interest in starting a course on, for example, fascist leaders of the twentieth century.

The Co-Curriculum Board then organizes a course on twentieth-century fascist leaders. All persons interested in taking such a course contact
the Co-Curriculum Board, and class meeting times convenient to all participants are arranged.

Courses which involve the learning of skills (e.g., carpentry) will obviously require more specific arrangements.

(See PROGRAM, page 8)

Senate Convenes With Revision of By-Laws

By ANNE PELFREY
Staff Writer

On Tuesday night, the SGA Senate held its first meeting of the academic year and discussed plans for revising its
Constitution and by-laws.

SGA President Blain Butner issued a tentative schedule for the adoption of the revised by-laws and stressed the importance of
the next two meetings of the Senate. At these meetings, the by-laws will be distributed among the members and procedure
will be explained.

Senior Class President Bob Corlew described the proposed changes as “the greatest revisions in all my years at Davidson.”

In other business, Junior Ed Willingham reported that Zach Long has abolished the fee for the student directory. Willingham added
that the $1.00 charge had been used in the past to cover committee expenses.

Junior Pete Hotchkiss reported that this year the APO Bookstore made a profit of $160 through 300 individual transactions.

With SGA elections scheduled in two weeks, there was much discussion of election timing. Dorm senators and Residence Hall Council
members are to be elected on Oct. 1. Run-offs will be held the following week.
