Eight October 25, 1974 The Davidsonian Vince Rabil

Artists Supersede Ever-Receding Avant-Garde

What is going on in the visual arts today? Everything is a close estimate. The artist working today is given
the freedom to realize all possibilities of the human creative potential; he is limited only by the level of his
own consciousness and motivation and by the present achievements of science and technology which can be utilized in the production
of art. Artists around the world are dealing with the many new facets of creativity now free to be explored
in the Twentieth Century. The artist, no matter what he does, is a reflection of the world and society in
which he lives.

The modernist, by attempting to eliminate and reduce the involvement of his own person in his work, by striving to
eliminate the deceptions of illusionism, the conventional outlines and inadequacies of expressionism, and the freedom of the physical and visual
realities of his medium and the consequences of the techniques which liberate unlimited freedom on art and its audience.

Modernists feel that illusionism was only one small possibility of what could be done with color, texture, wet, hard, fluid,
dry, oil and water-based paints, etc. The modernist sculptor is free to use any three-dimensional material in any aesthetically valid
way. The modernist artist thus reflects a society that allows freedom not only in the content of art, but in
the creative process itself by freeing technique and form simultaneously.

Just as freedom and fragmentation characterize the trends in society today, likewise it characterizes what is happening in art. The
recent show of art from Pakistan in Stowe Galleries revealed artists who were very much a part of their own
culture but who were coming to grips with the problems facing artists in America and in Europe. Some were working
within examples of realism, modernism, impressionism, and expressionism in addition to works executed within more traditional Pakistani conventions.

Likewise, in America and elsewhere, today’s artist is not subject to the authority of one dominant style or trend. Consequently,
more things are going on in art today than I can attempt to list or describe here. This degree of
freedom in the arts is a very recent phenomenon, and the amount of freedom is increasing as time goes on.
In this article, the main topic I wish to deal with is this condition of increasing freedom in the arts.

Will the arts eventually reach such a degree of freedom that there will cease to be activities that can be
distinguished as those of “society,” and of “art”? Upon examining the directions art is taking today and the implications of
what is thus said, we are eventually led to see that human life by its very nature is creative and
not forced to do so out of the authority of custom and convention. They are free to paint or work
with any technique they devise, and may represent anything in any way they choose.

Paul Welch

Splitting Hares

Recollection of an early fondness for Peter Cottontail and his furry friends induced paranoia. I was in no mood for
jokes. Nevertheless, all the reviewers are comparing to Tolkien. They say...

I have always been too lazy to be the first person I know to look at a new book. When
“Watership Down” appeared on a coffee table this summer, I knew Mother would answer my usual query, “What is it
about?”

“Rabbits,” came the deadpan reply. Englishman Richard Adams’ fascinating new novel, “Watership Down.”

“No, silly, it’s by some Englishman all the reviewers are comparing to Tolkien. They say...”

Despite a rather nautical-sounding title, the next question was much less vague. Pearls of critical wisdom followed, unheeded. The mere
mention of my old buddy J.R.R. had me immersed in the blurb on the dust jacket of Richard Adams’ fascinating
new novel, “Watership Down.”

WHINING AND WAILING

The expressive guitar of Larry Coryell is featured at the Saturday night Eleventh House Concert at 8 p.m. in Johnston
Gymnasium.

Reel to Reel Reviews

“The Music Lovers”

“The Music Lovers” is a violent film. It wrecks itself upon the music, acting and direction of Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky,
Glenda Jackson and Ken Russell. It throws itself upon the rocks and bleeds. Russell directs every scene as though it
were his last. ClimaxHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Follows climax, constantly. Nothing fits together; each climax, each shot, each scene remains separate. Russell’s frenzied direction, which doesn’t have
the patience to incorporate even itself, cannot begin to incorporate such powerful elements as Tchaikovsky’s music and Jackson’s performance. The
film careens from side to side as first one element and then another predominates. Occasionally they collide, and the film
comes to jolting stops, until a new element takes over. There are times when many things suddenly work together and,
in some of these miraculous moments, the film has dramatic impacts as powerful as any I have ever experienced—perhaps they
are the most powerful. In unexpected places, the film explodes with dazzling bursts and surging energy. The effect is dizzying.
It exhausts itself.

The film was obviously conceived as being about Tchaikovsky and “the music lovers.” The opening titles announce as much. The
weakness of Richard Chamberlain’s Tchaikovsky and the strength of Jackson’s Nina throw everything out of balance. Any scene without Jackson
tends to become a trial to the patience, and there are many without her. Russell seems to have realized the
problem while filming and to have attempted to remedy it by expanding her role beyond all logical limits. The film
ends with a shot of her, and she wasn’t even a “music lover.” She only wanted to go to bed
with Tchaikovsky. Most of the other characters go to bed with his music.

A main theme of “The Music Lovers” is the relationship between art and sex. In a tone of white-hot hysteria,
the film attacks the problem head-on, without flinching or thinking. (I love the way Russell handles content.) The answers it
finds are muddled at best, simplistic at worst. Perhaps Madame von Meck, Tchaikovsky’s patroness, speaks for the film when she
says, “His music talks of things very few people ever talk of,” and when she writes, “Your music is mysterious,
marvelous, curious, inexplicable. One feels one would like to die experiencing it.”

A few attempts are made to connect Tchaikovsky’s music with things other than sex—a peaceful family life at his sister’s
home and a successful tour as a director. A responder to art makes use of the same emotions in responding
to art as he does in experiencing life. A life in the movie theaters is lived parallel to a life
outside the theaters. In both, one laughs and cries, is elated and depressed. Among the strongest emotions is the erotic
instinct. The director who harnesses this into the service of his films will have something very powerful working for them.
Like many romantic and Gothic artists before him, Russell fills his art with his sex life.

However, in “The Music Lovers,” instead of molding his sex life to the needs of his film, Russell throws it
in helter-skelter. Still, he is one of the few directors who knows how to try, and we must learn to
be grateful for only moderately gigantic favors.

In a way, Nina Tchaikovsky is the consummation of Jackson’s life work. She spent her childhood in reverent worship of
Bette Davis and Joan Crawford. (Who hasn't?) She studied ballet until she grew too tall. She researched the role in
the insane asylums of England, and in the days of her immaturity, rehearsed it under the brilliant Peter Brooks in
“Marat/Sade.” The final version was polished under the guidance of Russell, the best director of formal actresses in the history
of cinema.

Taken as a whole, the film is impotent. But in its parts, it is one of the most valuable ever
made. In other words, it is a film by Ken Russell. The two statements are interchangeable. The music, acting, and
direction are all exorbitantly his. Nina is romantic, but the similarity is not enough to make them more than sections
of work together. The film suggests his music is more about one thing, a nightmarish sex life.

While I don’t find Russell’s philosophizing on the subject of sex and art particularly interesting, except insofar as it is
rather cute and very melodramatic, I would like to expand on my own feelings concerning the matter, for I think
they have a decided application to Russell’s film. To anyone interested in a refutation of Russell’s views, I recommend Pauline
Kael’s peevish article in the Feb. 8, 1971 issue of “The New Yorker.”

“The Music Lovers” is a crude work, but sometimes, it is not crude at all.

By JOE MCMILLAN

Jackson’s performance, on the other hand, is nearly victorious. While it doesn’t murder the film, it does manage to tear
it into further shreds.
