Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

cats’ tracks

By LESTER ABERGER

In favor of football at Davidson. Not because of the prevailing sentiment against football here, but rather because he realized that there was no chance for

As do all forms of journalism, sports writing runs the risk of being a dead medium of expression. Oftentimes the subject is dead or if it is not, the style of the account, or even the writer is. The articulation of slimy platitudes, reams of statistics and half-assed apologetic criticism have often come to characterize the sports copy and naturally, I hope to avoid these pitfalls.

Sports writing has meaning only when it searches out the core of the sport, the people who participate in it and their attitudes toward it.

Last Monday, Dave Fagg assumed his duties on the coaching staff at Georgia Tech and many were glad to see him go. I too was glad to see him go but perhaps for different reasons than many others. Fagg’s resignation was a good thing for both Fagg and Davidson. From a professional coaching standpoint, Fagg has taken a step forward. A position as a top assistant under a well-known and respected coach is a tremendous advancement opportunity for a man whose career is football, as Fagg’s presumably is.

Even Fagg’s most bitter critics will concede that despite a mediocre record here at Davidson, he is an energetic and dedicated man. Fagg’s new job at Georgia Tech is a shot at the big time he values so highly.

As for Davidson College, the resignation was a necessity. Fagg began his coaching here in the shadow of Homer Smith’s impressive record and understandably, he inherited the desire to win big from this.

But with the Trustee’s decision to deemphasize football, Fagg and his staff were burdened with the task of winding down a program they had worked hard to build. The resignation allows Davidson to start anew with a fresh program, a fresh start in all respects.

As of now, the responsibility to inject new blood into football is in our laps, but no one on Fagg’s staff fills the bill. The coaching ability of these men is questionable in my opinion. These men worked closely with Fagg; it is likely that they share his aspirations for big-time play. Such aspirations seem to be an organic part of them, as they were for Fagg.

If, nevertheless, any member of Fagg’s staff can demonstrate otherwise, they should be considered. However, any agreement with a deemphasized football program must be genuine.

The responsibility is now the college’s. It must select a new head coach who is aware of Davidson’s new football spirit and is willing to work constructively within it.

Despite the lack of better scholarship players, Dave Fagg never gave up. On the contrary, Fagg instilled a

Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates North Main Street Davidson, N. C. 28036

College Agents

Brad Tipler Dick Richardson Rollie White Bill Smith Mike Pappas

The Davidsonian - January 18, 1974 Nine

First Class Ticket

Sherrill’s Jewelry

Watch & Jewelry Repair Davidson, N. C.

HATTIES

HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri. Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30

IMPORTED BEER Now Serving The “Hattie” Cheeseburger

KEEP YOUR OPTIONS OPEN

ROTC provides a career option which you can keep with a small investment of your time. It is

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS: Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer - North Carolina’s recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. 27th year. Camps feature sailing, motorboating and seamanship plus all usual camping activities.

For students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who are LOOKING FOR MORE than “just another summer job.”

For NURSES (RN). June 11 - August 23. We seek highly qualified (ability to instruct in one phase of camp’s program), dedicated and enthusiastic staff members with exemplary character and strong moral values. Good salaries, room and board, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of application. Write to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.