\ October 25, 1974

The Davidsonian

Fall Board Meeting Centers On Critical Campus Issues

Members of the Davidson College Board of Trustees will convene on campus this weekend to conduct the annual Fall meeting of the board. Meetings of the various subcommittees have been held, and the committee would be referred to the Board for a vote.

“We invited the representatives to come and make their case, and we intend to see that they get a fair hearing. But what the committee will do, no one can really say at this point,” Terry said.

Also on the agenda of this committee is the final discussion of the proposal to authorize the College Union to apply for the license to sell beer once it has relocated in the old Grey Library. This group met on the beer proposal last Spring and approved it with no trouble. What they will do Friday is merely to reintroduce it to the full Board with their recommendations,” Terry added.

Thursday night was set aside for the meeting of the Governance Committee. It reviewed the Model III College Constitution, the SGA By-Laws, and the Faculty By-Laws to make recommendations regarding these documents to the full board. It is hoped by student and faculty officials that these concerns will be addressed by the Governance Committee so that they may pass to the Board for ratification.

Notable action is hoped from both the Finance and Management Committee and the Honorary Degrees Committee. The former will hear of the general financial status of the college and the present conditions of student housing. A final decision is expected on townhouse living.

Also considering business of governance will be the Executive Committee in its meeting on Friday morning. At this time, Article X of the Model III Constitution, regarding faculty requirements, will be heard and discussed. The Executive Committee will also hear information on the status of the proposed 50,000-watt radio station.

The Athletics and Physical Education Committee will meet Friday morning and hear information regarding intercollegiate athletic programs (including those for women) and general physical education.

by MARK DEATON
Executive Editor

All single students will be required to pay a compulsory laundry fee through the 1977-78 school year according to College Business Manager Robert A. Currie. Currie explained that present plans for phasing out the laundry involved continuing the full compulsory fee for 1975-76 and reducing laundry services and fees for the years 1976-77 and 1977-78.

“Since it is not feasible to operate on a voluntary basis, the fee must remain compulsory as long as we continue in the laundry business,” Currie stated. “It’s just our feeling that we'd lose money with a voluntary operation. That’s just my own opinion,” he added.

According to College Comptroller Robert W. Davidson, the college-operated laundry has been losing money for years. “Since I’ve been here (1968), there has always been a small loss,” said Davidson. Last year the laundry operated at a loss of $7,398.

The Davidsonian, published at Davidson, N.C.programs, new facilities, and new staff. The Buildings and Grounds Committee also scheduled the completion of the E.H. Little Library, additions to the athletic facilities (notably the gym floor and the track), progress of Grey Union renovation, and the outlook for student housing.

Beer Question Brewing
Fee To Remain Through ’78

“We do not like to be in the laundry business,” Currie said. “But we're in it, and we run it only as a service to students. We think that this plan is an orderly way of phasing it out.” Last spring, the Student Government Association studied the laundry, conducted a referendum, and recommended that the laundry services be offered to students on a voluntary basis. “I don’t foresee the laundry being voluntary,” Currie said.

College Laundry Manager Frances Beaver agreed with Currie. “The demand to make the laundry fee and services voluntary involves the number of employees we have in the laundry,” she said. At present, there are approximately 30 workers employed in the laundry, working either full or part-time. “Imposing the compulsory laundry fee seems about the only way we can run the laundry to meet student needs and to be fair to the employees in the laundry,” said Davidson.

In a written statement to the coeds on March 38, Currie explained, “We are attempting to phase down by not replacing employees when they retire. Also, employees are to be transferred to other college departments where possible.” However, at the present time, the college is employing seven retired people to work part-time in the laundry. Two more employees will reach retirement age at the end of this year, and four more by the end of the 1975-76 school year. “These people are receiving their Social Security benefits and they don’t want to make more money than they can and still receive their benefits,” said Davidson.

Beaver expressed skepticism about the Honor Code being upheld by Davidson students if the laundry fees and services were voluntary. “You couldn’t work it on the honor system. Students couldn’t walk in and out of the laundry as they do now. For example, someone who doesn't pay a laundry fee might throw his laundry in with his roommate’s. It would be very confusing,” she said.

Trustees Interested In Low-Key Beering
By MARK GERGEN
Staff Writer

The Trustee Student Life and Health Committee will decide this weekend whether Davidson will apply for a license to sell beer. If the vote is affirmative, the matter will be brought up before the full board.

Director of the Student Union C. Shaw Smith stated, “We are definitely continuing to ask permission from the trustee committee which is responsible for social life. So far they have indicated interest.” Smith went on to say that he hopes they will approve the motion. 

Before the idea to have a license to sell beer, the contribution system was used, where students were encouraged to make a contribution for free beer. This system is prohibited by law. At that time it was decided to wait until the new Union was ready before applying for a license. Since then the Union has resorted to “checking” beer at parties, while providing the cups. “Under the past system students have shown that they can handle beer as a low-key thing. Students didn’t abuse the privilege because the scheme was well worked out. It was a low-pressure situation,” Smith said. He stressed that so long as students exhibit the same