The Evolution Of Davidson, Part VI
Davidson Blind Harbor White Cane Mutinies
By ALEC HOON

Having just returned from an encounter with one of the most incredible minds I've ever felt, by comparison I now
feel at a loss to say anything about anything... Dick Gregory was that amazing. Nevertheless, as it is now my
appointed hour, I will try to present to you some of the pearls of wisdom (or ignorance?) that I have
garnered from my existence at Davidson; all the while begging your pardon for my awkward prose, and hoping that you
will be able to see beyond to the perceptual world of ideas and beliefs.

What has been the nature of my evolution? It has been from the early ego-tripping freedom to go out, get
drunk or visit the What-a-Woman, and stagger back to East (now Sentelle) Dorm at whatever hour and feel no parental
ire (as they were 500 miles removed), to the sobering realization that such escapades must be just a passing fad
in my development. It has been a time of changing values: from pro-Nixon kill-the-fucking-slant-eyes God-is-on-our-side Episcopalian to non-believing skeptic. And
in the fashion of a true disciple of don Juan, I have begun to “see”, for what that’s all worth.

But somehow I doubt whether any of you give a flying about my experiences and evolutionary development. It is all
such a personal thing, which can have little if any significance to anyone but myself. All I can say in
response is that while my personal experiences may be totally irrelevant, if your experiences have provoked similar thought patterns, then
we have found a common wavelength to communicate on. And if we are to survive intellectually and emotionally, then communication
must be our sustenance. To communicate in some fashion is all I now seek.

As the Grateful Dead so aptly sung it, “The trouble with you is the trouble with me, you got two
good eyes but you just don’t see.” That very perceptive statement captures well my feelings about Davidson. (In the word
“Davidson”, I do not mean the physicality of this place, but rather the people here. Davidson College has meaning only
insofar as it serves as a forum for the interactions of the minds of those interjected here.)

Davidson is blind. All too often people (myself included) become so enmeshed in the particularities of their own struggle that
they lose all perspective, ironically, of themselves. In the classroom it is that goddamn grade, the almighty dollar of learning,
that assumes all importance. As many have noted, how much one has learned is a function of the relative elevation
of one’s GPA. When will Davidson realize that knowledge is not in a numerical grade (and stop awarding Phi Beta
Kappa), and maybe not even in the classroom itself—that it can only be found where the mind learns to assimilate
various stimuli into some idea which is more than the sum total of all the inputs, and to get satisfaction
in such an endeavor.

The Davidsonian
May 3, 1974
Seven

HOON AND COURT

Interrupts itself to listen to the wisdom of a Dick Gregory. Outside the classroom, the quest for knowledge is even
more tragically frustrated. When the 1 p.m. end-of-classes bell sounds, Davidson hurries either to the library or to the pleasures
of grass. In both pursuits little if anything is gained. In the library, where the products of some amazing minds
await ready for the taking, few bother to search them out. Regurgitation of a few facts is the key. Davidson
is seldom challenged to examine the truth of what it reads (who is to blame?), but only to memorize. Davidson's
pedagogical approach is so outdated that regurgitation is all that is necessary. I’m at fault for taking the easy route,
but is it my fault alone? If I were a little more stimulated or if I thought that alittle more
insight would be expected from me, then perhaps I would have learned something rather than briefly assimilating it. But who
cares, I got a B+ didn’t I? I got a B+ and I can’t even tell you what 1/5 of
the material in the course was about. With dope, the veritable assassin of youth, Davidson also goes down, with equally
pitiful consequences. As an occasional sensory stimulant and relaxant, grass can be useful and pleasurable (and far less harmful than
booze); but when it is used so excessively that it becomes the only means whereby Davidson can cope with itself,
then it becomes tragic. Unfortunately, oftentimes Davidson relies on dope as such a crutch.

However, what disturbs me most about Davidson is that it refuses to utilize the common experiences and feelings of the
people here to establish any kind of meaningful communication. Davidson opens itself only to superficialities. Rarely will anyone confide to
others his secret pleasures or anguishes, for fear that such an admission is symptomatic of being fucked-up (or worse). Life,
which should be fun (“the best four years of life”), becomes merely a few fleeting periods of elation, overwhelmed by
longer periods of manic depression because Davidson feels so painfully alone. Feelings are a barrier rather than a bond. During
such rare occasions when feeling or emotion spontaneously bubbles forth, it is quickly squelched as Davidson callously laughs at such
weakness, so that the shell around the psyche is further hardened.

Need I give specific examples? Who hasn’t said something deeply felt, and not been cruelly laughed at? Or who hasn’t
wanted to do something, and refrained for fear of being mocked? In its fear and bewilderment, Davidson looks to its
idols: those who typify the outward trappings of success—the guy or girl who is a “campus leader” or “stud” or
whatever is a source for emulation. In the process, the different person is lost in the scramble to assume the
mold. And the idols are then trotted out as what a college student should be—in Who’s Who, ODK, at alumni
functions, etc. What a joke! What makes them suitable specimens for the holy pedestal of honor? Why not pay tribute
to the unique individual who shows feeling for others in his own unostentatious fashion?

Only when Davidson begins to search out feeling can it truly call itself an “institution of higher learning.” For learning
must be the gateway to understanding and living in peace with the rest of the world. And the only way
that such an idealistic goal can ever be actualized is when people break down their walls and admit others into
their world. Certainly no easy task.

Where does this high and mighty diatribe into what should be (but which probably never will) leave me? A friend
once characterized himself as being an optimistic cynic. I think I could find a place under such an umbrella description.
I have learned to “see” past my own relatively secure life and future (from Davidsonian editor to the University of
Pittsburgh Medical School) to the discontent and unhappiness of many of those around me. (I often wonder whether such is
beneficial, for it only brings me down. Yet where I am now I cannot help. I can’t nor ever will
be able to go back to the period of my life when my awareness of others was nonexistent because I
was so wrapped up in what I was. I see now, and it brings me down.)

This is the wellspring of my cynicism—when I see things that are wrong, and feel that they will never be
corrected. To the person with the dedication and the ability to be a fine doctor, who will never be given
the chance because he didn’t have the intellectual prowess to make those all-important grades. To the person who through no
fault of his own was bedridden with such a childhood from lack of parental love that he will be incapable
of ever extending or feeling the pleasures of love. And to the person scarred with an “ugly” exterior, who must
feel the brunt of society’s preoccupation with external beauty. Is there any hope that these things will ever be changed?

At times—like when Davidson reaches out through the Y program to work in the community or when Davidson gives 300
pints to the blood drive—I feel some small degree of optimism. But we have so far to go...
