“wer cB SD Uy pring ‘Sunday, November 10 7:30 p.m. NC-PIRG: Monday, November 11 The North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC-PIRG) has released a report on bicycle chains and cables. The report is entitled ‘The Vanishing Bike: How to Prevent Yours from Losing its Chain,” and is based on a study made by the New York Public Interest Research Group.

“The resurging popularity of bicycling has been accompanied by the rise of a more disturbing phenomenon—that of bicycle theft,” said State Director of NCPIRG Wib Gulley.

Brown Lung Project ‘The Vanishing Bike’ all week Video Tape Program: Rathskeller “TV Ma” & “Star Spangled Washboard” 8 p.m. Winter Non-Credit Morrison Room Course Organizational Meeting Tuesday, November 12 11:50 a.m. - Film: Morrison Room “The Heart Is A Lonely Hunter” 8 p.m. Fine Film: Love Auditorium “Man of Aran” Wednesday, November 13 8 p.m. Lecture-Bob Katy: Love Auditorium “Who Killed JFK” Thursday, November 14 10 a.m. — Coffee & Cokes Banquet Hall

“The long-run solution to bike theft is tied to the need to provide an adequately funded, secure place for bicycling as a prominent form of transportation in our society,” said Gulley. “We hope that our pamphlet report will provide some more immediate, interim help to bikers in protecting their bicycles from theft, and we look forward to the growing use of bicycles as one of the healthiest, environmentally-sound ways to travel.” Copies of the pamphlet are available in the PIRG office at the College Union.

The new basketball team seems to complement nicely the individuals getting paid to play basketball. This was reflected in that last year our team was barely in sync and some members did things as remarkable as drinking the night before a game. Serhopefully is gone and with him hopefully goes all the losses to Richmond and Furman. The man who replaces him is a winner. Coach Brickels’ attitude towards basketball has changed our squad into a cohesive unit. He is a man who not only wields authority (every coach has that), but in addition commands respect. He’s a guy you cannot help but like. People who view practices from the gallery seem to be so taken by this silver-haired coach, that if he suddenly turned to the spectators and told them to run a mile, they would probably do it.

Why is it so important that we’re a team? Obviously, one reason is that it helps everybody involved. However, in the case of Davidson, it is even more important because we are a team that is dependent on the unity concept more so than other squads.

Girls Ready For Second Season By CARLYLE SHERRILL Staff Writer

After posting a 9-3 record last year in their initial season, the Davidson girls’ basketball team will enter their second season with high expectations. Coaching the girls this year are IMAC stars Joe Duncan, Charlie Slagle, and Ken Schmader. The only major loss from last year’s team was Katie Early, a strong front court performer. Also missing from last year is Ann Holland.

The season this year will include 16 regular season games and the North Carolina State Girls’ Basketball “B” Tournament. Davidson would have been in the “A” tournament but it was too expensive and came during vacation. Three of the games are varsity games. Several new additions to the schedule promise to make it much tougher than last year’s, Duncan indicated.

Duncan and Slagle plan to install a pressure defense and a fast-breaking offense. The girls will use a full court press on occasion while basically employing the 2-1-2 and 1-2-2 zones. Slagle explained that the girls plan to capitalize on their excellent team speed by fast-breaking often. Ded Booth, Donna Sherrill, Bonnie Caulkins, and Ginny Jewell will...be heavily relied upon to clear the boards and start the fast breaks,” Slagle said. The team is made up basically of freshmen and sophomores with only one senior and two juniors.

With All-Male Coaching Staff

Duncan and Slagle were quick to praise the team’s overall mental attitude. According to Duncan, “We have a lot of talent with everyone back from last year except Katie, and the addition of Rene Soos, a transfer from UNG, will greatly improve the team.” Slagle added that, “Every game we play will be a good basketball game, perhaps better than most people would expect. We have a good schedule and any time we play there will be two good teams on the court.”

Phone 892-0208
PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 - 7, Wed. 9 - 12, Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Davidson, N.C.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics - Russell Stover Candies
131 N. Main St.

Davidson may not have the talent N.C. State has, man for man. We have no height in the center position, and while our rebounding strength lies in our forwards, we don’t have the height in that position a team such as Carolina has. Davidson can beat those teams. Our squad can out-hustle any other team. Our squad may not have the shooting other teams have but by working together each member can take the high percentage shots. We can win! And what’s more, we will. I believe this year we’re going to storm the Southern Conference and get past the NCAA regionals.

The key teams for us this year are St. John’s, South Carolina, Furman, and Richmond. I believe that Richmond and Furman are the only two teams that should approach our standard of play this year in the conference. The reasons I have included South Carolina and St. John’s are as follows: South Carolina promises to be as tough or tougher this year than last thanks to the return of Alex English and Bob Mathias. It would seem that this team will almost certainly receive an NCAA bid to the tournament. A victory over the Gamecocks in South Carolina would certainly put pressure on them when we meet them in Charlotte to see who represents this region in the NCAA.

As far as St. John’s is concerned, I believe a victory over them would really indicate what a good team we have. St. John’s should finish in the top ten this year. If we beat St. John’s (whom we meet after State, UCLA, and Notre Dame), it will mean that we would have reached a point where it would be feasible for us to do well in the NCAA tournament.

A quick glance at the team itself shows that we are strong. Eppa Rixey and Sheldon Parker continue to battle for the center spot, while Greg Dunn, Jay Powell, and Larry Horowitz should exhibit play that will place all on the Southern Conference team. Verlin, in my opinion, may be the greatest source of unexposed talent on the team. There is no one mentally tougher than he is, he jumps well, and looks fairly quick.

So you ask will this team be tougher than last year’s? All I can say is—Terry who?

Frank DeFelice, Ph.D.
Box 26576
First Union National
DAVIDSON RADIO
173 N. Main Street
Authorized Dealer Service and Sales

GO INTO BUSINESS FOR YOURSELF
BE A STOCK BROKER FULL TIME OR PART TIME
HAVE YOUR OWN OFFICE & SALES FORCE
GET COMMISSIONS TO 70% PLUS OVERRIDES
MAKE $26,880 PER YEAR
SAVE 87% ON YOUR OWN COMMISSIONS
Write for FREE BROCHURE with full details

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans
Only 6 miles north
Winner Brickels Brings Hope as Basketball Looms Ahead