Six

September 27, 1974. The Davidsonian

Verities of Earth And Sky

Jackson Fuses Abstract, Super-Real

A Review

By VINCE RABIL
Contributing Editor

A very unique exhibition opened last Sunday in Cunningham Fine Arts Building—a representative showing of Herb Jackson’s work over the past 15 years.

Although the overwhelming majority of the work was executed within the last four to five years, we are able to see a definite continuity in the evolution of Jackson’s style since 1959.

At first glance one may assume that Jackson’s work is abstract-nonrepresentational or devoid of correlation with nature. This is not the case. Jackson shows a steady development in the direction of super-reality.

It shows an obsession with physical mass and volume, with temperature, with texture, with the verities of earth and sky.

In viewing Jackson’s work chronologically, we are able to see several transitions, recurring themes, and an emerging direction and stylistic climax. We can see Jackson as he matures from a 14-year-old who is imitative of styles not altogether his, to an artist who produces personal, high-level interpretations of physical space, texture, tension, temperature, and mass.

From the glimpses Jackson gives us of his early work, we are able to see many things going on in his turbulent young mind.

Three works, “Cathedral Window,” “Rock Strata” and “Bow Down and Worship,” were done at the ages of 14, 16, and 17. They are religious in tone and not original in style but contain the spirituality and concern for texture which reappear in subsequent works.

Works produced from the ages of 19 to 23, such as “Night of the Owl’s Eye,” “Creation Myth,” “Black and White Mattress” and “Quiet Room,” reflect the period of his coming of age as an independent individual who is breaking with parental authority and is creating and declaring himself.

The recurring themes of night, the underlying sexual elements, and the search for privacy and peace reveal an emotional involvement that is generally absent from his paintings of the 1970s.

Jackson’s love affair with clouds and sky begins in 1969. In works such as “Space Mirrors,” “Ice Wall,” “Fortress” and “Double Window,” we see a new stylistic tightness and direction emerge as he attempts to quantify space in a floating, open system of mass and volume.

From 1969 to 1973 Jackson’s explorations of celestial space and form continue. During this time new things begin to appear.

He slowly fills his delineated space-volumes with solid mass, which he draws closer to the forefront in successive paintings. “Delphi” and “Open III” illustrate this process of solidification.

By 1972 Jackson has moved from the cool freedom of the skies to the warmth and security of earthen-matter which seems to erupt with volcanic intensity in 1973 in works like “Tracer” and “Eastern Light.”

With his quantification of the aerial sphere complete, Jackson seems to be entering the realm of hot-matter in 1974 with his reinterpretations of texture and temperature that he freezes beneath rhoplex.

A comparison of his 1961 “Rock Strata” with his 1974 “Small Grid” seems to indicate that some sort of vast stylistic cycle has completed itself over the course of 15 years.

The major trends in his work appear to climax in “Rare Earth” in 1974, as an uncanny tension and balance is established between extreme heat and energy underlying cool matter and freezing rhoplex.

In this review I have dealt primarily with the changes occurring in Jackson’s paintings, but one should also notice the consistency in his works of upward movement and controlled rhythm by judicious use of parallel lines.

Thus, in this representative showing we see Jackson in the process of purifying metaphysical experience by eliminating progressively emotional expressions in order to catch a direct vision of selected elements of nature in the subtle realities of their existence.

His efforts have resulted in work that is very tight, very mathematical, very clear, vibrant, and lucid.