- The Davidsonian, September 20, 1974

Three Infirmary Weathers Student Criticism

By JOYCE STAHMANN
Staff Writer

Would you go to the infirmary? Many Davidson students would stay away no matter how sick they were, even though
each year they pay approximately $80 in compulsory infirmary fees.

Mrs. Dorothy D. Sherrill, the live-in nurse, says that upperclass students tell slanderous stories about the infirmary to scare the
freshmen. “Students always complain about the infirmary and the laundry because they know we're the only ones who can’t get
back at them,” said Nurse Sherrill. “They wouldn’t dare treat the professors the same way.”

Yet there are often cases of students who will not use the infirmary because of previous unpleasant experiences as well
as those who only go by hearsay. “I wouldn’t go back there unless it were very necessary,” admitted Paul Jennings,
a second-year student.

One morning last year, Jennings woke up with such severe muscle spasms that he could not move. The infirmary was
called immediately, but it failed to reach the doctor, who was tied up at the Mooresville Hospital. “I was in
intense pain and didn’t know what was wrong with me,” said Jennings. “The infirmary kept saying, ‘Just bring him over,’
but I couldn't even move.”

Eight hours later, contact was made with the doctor who sent an ambulance which did not arrive for another four
hours. The next morning Jennings was moved back to the infirmary where he spent two nights. “The hospital had to
be a go-between because the infirmary wouldn’t and couldn’t accommodate. Its tendency is towards efficient, impersonal care within a strict
routine.”

Another complaint Jennings had was that visitation policies allowed no students but his roommate and hall counselor to see him,
a policy which has changed at the infirmary this year. New visitation hours are from 9 to 11:45 a.m., 3
to 4:45 p.m., and 6 to 9 p.m. Each patient is allowed to see two people at a time with
each visit lasting not more than ten minutes.

“Can you visualize us carrying out our duties as nurses with seven patients and fourteen visitors in one little ward?”
Sherrill asked. “You take that and the television going full blast. The rules may be changed to longer or shorter
periods of time at the discretion of the nurses depending on how the students act.”

Other alterations to the infirmary concern the staff, which now includes three nurses and the North Mecklenburg County Medical Team
from Huntersville Hospital. A nurse is on duty 24 hours a day with a doctor on call constantly. The nurse
may call the doctor in for minor breaks, lacerations, and acute pain as she thinks necessary.

Wasted Energy Heads PIRG Project Listing

By ROY GRIER
Staff Writer

“Project Wasteland” heads the list of projects for the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC PIRG), which will be
a statewide effort investigating energy consumption and waste. “We really want to get people involved,” the state chairperson stressed, “but
it depends a lot on developing student interest.”

PIRG is an organization founded by Ralph Nader, which works within the system to promote change in the public interest.
The North Carolina branch was founded in 1971 by three Duke students. “We try not to claim we’re Ralph Nader’s
organization,” stated the chairperson. “Today has no association with PIRG except for shared goals.”that the purpose of the research group
is “a channel for students to affect change through the system, and to get education outside the classroom.” “We're really
interested in getting course credit, but haven't been very successful.” NC PIRG sponsored five students this summer for land use
in the mountains. "Report in a few months. “PIRG is a really good way for students to relate what they're
learning to problems in the world,” Barron said.

An infirmary sick call is Monday through Friday at 1 p.m. until 2:30, Saturday at 3 p.m., and Sunday at
7 p.m. Pelvic examinations and prescriptions for birth control measures will be given for women. The services of the doctors
and nurses are free of charge to all students. Without insurance ($30 per student), students in the infirmary pay $4.50
per day for board. All students pay for prescription drugs and laboratory work, which Diagnostic Laboratories in Charlotte usually handle.
The 1938 Preyer Infirmary smacks of the last century, according to Sherrill. “It’s 40 years behind the times. This infirmary
is just a shell,” she said. The x-ray machine is out of date and only works on extremities such as
fingers and toes. Laboratory facilities are practically non-existent. Acoustical problems affect quietness. The bulk of the patients are placed in
the two wards.

1973-74 Yearbook Promises Fewer Pages, Wider Coverage
By BRUCE CORSER
Senior News Editor

The 1974 Davidson College annual, “Quips and Cranks,” edited by Jeff George, is expected to be distributed to students on
or before Oct. 15. George related that although there are fewer pages in the upcoming annual than in ’73, there
is wider coverage. This was accomplished by cutting back on the size of the class sections. Like last year, the
senior pictures will be limited to candids although more will be included. There will be no special co-ed section this
year. The section of student life, which was heavily criticized last year, includes “many pictures of people in the various
organizations around campus, especially fraternities,” George said. Regarding the sports section, George labeled it “the best area of my staff.”
He also praised the faculty and administration portion, maintaining that it had a new look.

George attended the Yearbook Editor’s Workshop at Ohio University. There he exchanged ideas with some of the top journalists and
yearbook experts in the nation. Planning sessions have already begun and staff members are now being selected. The activities of
the annual this year will include business, sports, academics, and features. According to Ensley, the yearbook is to once again
become “an important part of the Davidson College experience. It is the responsibility of a yearbook to freeze time for
one year, and we hope to do this. This is the only way students can have an annual representative of
this campus,” said Ensley.

Honors Center Offers Varied Fall Schedule
By ERICH WRUCK
Staff Writer

A series of events will take place at the Center for Honors Studies in the next few weeks. A series
of films began at the Honors Center on Wednesday with “Strange Case of the English Language.” There will be a
showing of “Hinduism and Buddhism” at 4 p.m. The Rocky River project will continue this year, but a new literature
program will begin in 1975. There are 65 students in the program. One student is presently at the Western Carolina
Center working on a psychology project in a joint effort.
