Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STYKES, Business Manager

FOUR
MARCH 22, 1974

Pressure Valve

A fact of Davidson is academic pressure. The kind of pressure here is the sort of centrifugal force that sends students spinning off from campus every weekend in search of relief. The reasons for it are of course, the graduate study intentions of most of the student body, the caliber of the faculty, but more important the academic calendar. Each fall, the Davidson student returns with this to look forward to: three identical terms of intensive study, each differing from the others only in the content of the courses and not at all in the approach taken toward the actual instruction. In short, this makes education at Davidson a little more painful than it need be.

The Faculty and Administration are presently considering alternative calendars to the 3-3-3, possibly to institute one of these in coming years. Of these, the 4-1-4 system is by far the most attractive. This could prove to be just the tonic Davidson needs to breathe some life into the education it offers. Under the 3-3-3 system, the student commonly meets three classes five times weekly for a period of ten weeks. What this accomplishes is to lighten the workload of the professors and intensify the student’s. Each professor commonly meets with two classes per term under the 3-3-3 and most professors have taught their courses for years and need only cursory preparation to teach them.

Under the 4-1-4 system, however, the Davidson student would arrive in the fall, registered for four courses that he/she would complete in 14 weeks. After this first term, the student would be free for one month to pursue one project for course credit before beginning the second 14 weeks late in winter. It goes without saying that this would do wonders for independent study and would open up other credit possibilities, including foreign travel and study, internships, and research projects that require access to facilities not found on this campus. Whereas now, if a student wishes to tackle one of these, he/she finds that he/she must make arrangements to somehow receive 3 course credits to be away from Davidson for any length of time.

The value of the minimester should be fully considered. It affords the student those advantages mentioned above, but more important, it represents a break from the strict grind. After such a period, the student would be freshened and ready to begin the final 14 weeks of class time. In addition, 14-week terms would allow for a more gradual absorption of course material; this is particularly necessary where lab courses are involved. It’s a fact that too many Davidson students return for the Spring term with worn patience seeking only to somehow get by the final 10 weeks and collect the summer rest.

Unphysical PE

As of the beginning of this term, 36 seniors and over 70 juniors had not completed the PE requirements for graduation. Naughty, naughty, so to help out, Chip Stone has come out of anonymity to modify the system. In all seriousness, he might well have stayed under cover. In the past, these juniors and seniors would be able to fulfill their PE requirements by completing a series of proficiency tests in the four individual sports of their choice. Not any longer. Beginning next year, students in this situation will be forced to take one of two planned physical education seminars or enroll in various activity instruction classes. This is the solution that’s likely to create more problems than it solves.

Next year then, juniors and seniors already pushed to complete academic requirements for graduation will be saddled with additional mandatory classes. Presently, the most common excuse of the phys ed delinquents is lack of time. So does it make sense to further reduce the time flexibility with scheduled classes in “the psychology of sport and the value of sport”? Also, a physical education requirement should be fulfilled by physical activity, not in the classroom. A PE seminar is contrary to the rationale behind the student being developed through sport. Flexibility is the key. Allow those students who are willing to attend the seminars to do so, but retain the individual sport proficiency tests and every student will be given the maximum opportunity to complete his or her PE requirements.

Faculty Guest Column

1970’s Emulate Past Religious Nostalgia

By MAX E. POLLEY
Professor of Religion

Nostalgia is camp. “The Waltons” on TV, “The Sting” at the local cinema, The GreatGatsby build-up, and modern art reflect America’s romance with the past. Overpopulation, environmental pollution, and thermonuclear war confront us with such seemingly insoluble problems that we look longingly to the golden age of the past with its small towns, clean streams, and friendly gangsters. Baby, it’s cold outside, so it’s back to the womb. Even Nixon pictures himself as a second Lincoln. If this is an accurate portrait of modern America, it should not surprise us that religion also reflects this retreat to the past.

In the 1960s the emphasis in religion was upon social reform. Students were activists. They wanted to kick the suburban habit and remake the world. Hand in hand with Eugene McCarthy they would bring in the messianic age of social equality, justice, and peace. In the previous decade, when a handful of campus prophets spoke out for reform, society yawned. But student ranks swelled in the 60s: they could not be ignored. Society reacted with violence and riot control, hallowed by the sacred words “law and order.” In those ancient days, students were criticized for defining religion only in terms of social action. There seemed to be little emphasis upon the transcendent. The way to be religious was not to walk into church but to march into Washington. The deepest religious experiences were to be had in the silent vigils protesting the Vietnam War.

But the mood of the 1970s is different. We now know that our problems are frightfully complex. They will not be solved simply by Rocky River Projects, civil rights demonstrations, or peace conferences. Indeed, will they ever be solved? Our society is experiencing a “failure of nerve” and the appeal of nostalgia is our attempt to escape into the comfortable world of the familiar and the manageable. Religiously, the 1970s have become the 1950s revisited. The emphasis is upon individual, personal, emotional religion rather than social reform.

The 1950s were the heyday of the Billy Graham Crusades. Church membership climbed to 64 percent of the population, the highest in our nation’s history. The “American Way of Life” was identified with Christianity: to be an atheist was to be not only anti-religious but also anti-American. It was an age when God-Capitalism-Country were regarded as the Holy Trinity, inseparably united. The high priests of the nation were Billy Graham and Norman Vincent Peale, and for good cause. Neither criticized the social ills of the nation; both offered an individual gospel of salvation defined either as a future life in heaven or as a present peace of mind on earth. Eisenhower put “under God” in our pledge of allegiance, and all was right with the world.

It is alarming that religiously the 1970s so resemble the 1950s. Billy Graham is still with us, although less prominent since Watergate. Everybody seems to be avoiding Nixon. Norman Vincent Peale is once again a favorite of the White House. Nixon instituted “Prayer Breakfasts,” an outward show of piety while we bombed the hell out of Vietnam. The religious climate among the natives moved from social reform back to individual religion, this time cast in the form of the Jesus and the charismatic movements. Both emphasize personal, private, religion and de-emphasize social reform. Sunday night Vespers, a hallowed tradition in the 1950s, died in the 1960s, only to be raised again in the 1970s in a new time-slot.

Well, what do I want? The 50s (and the 70s are not different) overemphasized individualism in religion with no real social message; the 60s made social reform the essence of religion. Both approaches have their glaring weaknesses. I am not trained in the Old Testament for nothing. What we need is a healthy dose of the prophets who saw religion as embracing the totality of life. They were neither cultic priests supporting the status quo nor social reformers riding white horses, but men of vision who challenged the society to be obedient to the rule of God. But their religious vision of what should be both condemned the present world order and called for a new age. On careful reflection, it is difficult to find a better formula for a lifestyle than the words of Micah: “He has showed you, O man, what is good; and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God.”

Gus Succop

---

Bitch Blind SIGHT you may wonder SMELL why I wink a lot, if I were half empty and if you where no one liked me, do, I would change and become don’t look at half full, me and because I'll wink giggle when they'd smell at bull. you too