April 26, 1974

Tye Bavidsonian

Netters Contend For Tourney Crown

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

The Davidson tennis team crushed UNC-Charlotte 8-1, to take a thrust of momentum into the Southern Conference Tournament this weekend in Boone, N.C. The win placed the Cats at a 15-10 mark for the season. They finished 5-2 in the conference, good enough for third place behind Appalachian, the host of the tourney, and Furman.

Head coach Jeff Frank is looking toward the tournament with optimism, but admits that the going will be tough. “We would really have to get a fantastic draw on Thursday night to have a good shot at the title,” he commented. “But we have been playing good tennis the past couple of weeks and could definitely pull some big upsets.”

Estimating where his players will be seeded, Frank is holding his breath for Bill Allen to get the fourth spot at the top singles position. He feels that Rick Quinby and Gary Bressler will be either third or fourth at the second and third singles, respectively. Scoot Dimon will probably not be seeded at the fourth spot, while Steve Holman and John Mitchell should both be third in the fifth and sixth slots, respectively.

The doubles look like Allen and Quinby getting the second seed at the top doubles, with Bressler and Jim Dorsett being third or fourth. Holman and Bill DuPont should get the fourth seed at the third doubles.

“I am really expecting everyone to make it through the first round, unless we get screwed in the pairings,” Frank explained. “Then it is just a matter of how many brackets we are in with Appalachian and how many with Furman.” The Cats were beaten 9-0 by the Mountaineers earlier this season.

Frank noted that Mitchell was playing very good tennis at the number six spot, as was Quinby. He also felt that Bressler was playing back to normal after being in a brief slump. “I think we are as ready as we will ever be,” Frank admitted cautiously. “We probably could not be any more ready if we had three more weeks to prepare.”

He continued by saying the doubles look to be the best places for the Cats as far as the tournament is concerned. He is especially confident in the number one position, where he feels the team is likely to get to the finals and maybe win the championship. He also feels the chances are good in the number two doubles, although a good draw is once again a necessity.

Recently the Cats have added to their wins with victories over Atlantic Christian and East Carolina. Those matches were won by...

Gimmicks Fail In Pro Track, Folger Seeks Ultimate Fungo

If you stayed up late the night of April 14, you might have seen the ITA track meet from Los Angeles. I don’t know why, but I just can't get excited over professional track. Even aside from the inane commentary of Charlie Jones, Bill Toomey and Paul Warfield, the meet seemed to lack that spark of pure competitiveness, free of any material gain, which is the essence of sport.

Another repulsive factor is the extensive use of gimmickry. Is it really exciting to watch a 250 lb. shot-putter run a 30-yard dash against a 110 lb. female sprinter? Is it more exciting to watch men run against each other rather than against “pace lights”?

One of the stranger personalities on the Davidson College baseball team is one Ruben Franklin Folger, resident story-teller (specifically “Hamlet stories”) and self-proclaimed fungo champion of the Southern Conference and possibly the world. Frank is a short and middle-relief man who is commonly known as a “junk” pitcher, i.e. he can’t throw the ball straight. He’s had a pretty fair year so far in the pitching department.

This is not the story of his pitching but of his hitting. Like most pitchers, Frank is a frustrated hitter. He believes that he could tear the cover off the ball if he could only get the chance. A traditionalist, Folger hates the new designated hitter rule, mostly because he no longer gets...a chance to hit. Even this rule does not stop Frank from trying to prove that he is the reincarnation of Babe Ruth. He vents his frustration by hitting fungoes. For the uninitiated, a fungo bat is longer, thinner, and lighter than an average baseball bat, allowing one to hit a ball a maximum height and distance with a minimum of effort. The Folger Theory of hitting fungoes states that if one puts all his effort into hitting these fungoes, he can propel a baseball a phenomenal distance. It is this last assumption which drives Ruben Franklin Folger in his quest for the “Ultimate Fungo.” Go to a ball game about half an hour early and you'll see Frank standing on the left field line, grunting with each mighty heave as he tries to “jack one out.” Frank has had some definite success in his quest. I saw him propel one about 380 feet at William and Mary. Here at Davidson, he'll occasionally rocket one out. Frank discounts whatever success he’s had so far because he says he's been using inferior equipment. “Give me a balsa-wood fungo bat and a brand new rabbit ball, and I'll really show you something,” he says. You know something, I believe him.

Do you have any comments on sports that you would like to see in print? If so, this column is your vehicle of expression. Drop off any letters at Little 211 or at THE DAVIDSONIAN offices in the Temporary College Union.

The answers to the last trivia quiz:
1. Carl Furillo
2. Babe Ruth
3. Earl Averill, Heinie Manush, Bob Fothergill
4. Cornelius McGillicuddy
5. Billy Bruton.

good listeners are made, not born
NORTHWESTERN
The Quiet Company
Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036
College Agents
Brad Tipler
Dick Richardson
Rollie White
Bill Smith
Mike Pappas

HATTIE'S RESTAURANT
Now Open For Lunch
Featuring N.Y. Delicatessen
FOR: Italian Style Submarines
As well as a selection of Great Hard Roll & Rye Stacked Sandwiches
You Cannot Find A Better Sandwich

The Master Art Co. scores of 6-3 and 9-0, respectively. Against High Point College at the Panthers' home courts Tuesday, the Cats suffered a 5-4 defeat. Frank felt the team did not play well and attributed this to both the Panthers’ toughness and the Cats “looking to the tourney” this weekend. The Cats lost four of the six singles. Then they won the number one doubles and the third doubles before the second doubles team roped a 4-6, 6-0, 7-5 decision after being up 5-3 in the third set, having the service and having two match points. Frank is getting his team in shape for the tournament which begins on Friday and will conclude on Saturday. One big disadvantage will be that the tourney will be on the Apps’ home courts and on hard courts. But the Cats are approaching the event with quiet optimism. As defending conference champions, they are in a very precarious situation. They do not really have anything to lose.

Protect yourself against muggers, rapists, and worse with this amazing new whistle. Wear it as a necklace or carry it as a key chain. Its long-range penetrating shrill brings help in a hurry. The next dark night (that's tonight!) you'll feel a lot safer just knowing you have the greatest protection in the world. Gives obscene phone callers a shrilling earful, too. GET IT BEFORE YOU NEED IT!

Yes! I want to be saved! Send me — Key Chain
London-Like Whistles — Necklace (Number)
I enclose $5.00 for each London-Like Whistle. I understand that if I am not totally satisfied, I will receive a complete refund if returned in 10 days.
Family Jewels Ltd.
3431 West Villard Avenue
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53209

STREET NUMBER
CITY

It's the ONLY T-shirt endorsed by THE INTERNATIONAL STREAKERS ASSOC.
only $3 each OR 2 for $5.95 postpaid
Post Office Box 444
Maumee, Ohio 43537
Total