saneecaneateetaetet =: Friday, December 20 = > all day Prints and Drawings: Stowe Galleries =: = 4 Robert Nelson = 5 p.m. CHRISTMAS RECESS BEGINS = = p.m.: Dance Banquet Hall =: =: Saturday, December 21 BS =: facilities and better equip = 8 p.m. Basketball: Charlotte Coliseum =: = N.C. State = %: Tuesday, January 7 = 8 a.m. Winter Term Classes Resume = = 7 & 9:30 p.m. Film: Hodson Hall *: SS “Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme” = 7 p.m. Worship Service « DCPC' %: Wednesday, January 8 Be = 6 p.m. J.V. Basketball: Charlotte Coliseum =: = Montreat Anderson Bo 8 p.m. Basketball: Ret Notre Dame =: Thursday, January 9 all day Charlotte Coliseum’ # Sculpture and Drawings: Stowe Galleries John Kehoe 10 a.m. Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall 7 p.m. Catholic Mass « Lingle Chapel 7 p.m. Speaker: Honors Center Dr. Arthur Link Fine Film: Love Auditorium “She Wore a Yellow Dress” ... Courtwatch (Continued from page 3) Griffin Defends Griffin told this reporter, “I don’t know anyone better qualified on the list of nominees for the post than Allie Burnette.” The courtwatch report proposes that magistrates be granted higher pay to attract persons with higher qualifications, and recommends that higher qualifications for the office of magistrate be established. The only qualification of a Mecklenburg Co. Magistrate is that he or she be able to type, according to a Legal Aid attorney who worked on the report. “We are in agreement with many of the report’s conclusions,” Griffin added. “We're going to get better training. We have lawyers who are interested in teaching them ... We do need higher pay. “You know, she’s got a tough job, and you couldn’t pay me $50,000 to take that job.” When asked whether a law should be passed to require the magistrate to inform the defendant of his right to appeal, Griffin said, “I don’t think it’s the job of the magistrate to have to give them (defendant or plaintiff) their right to appeal. “I didn’t make good grades, but even in high school I knew about the right to appeal ... The act of appealing is what’s running up court costs. That’s why we’re overcrowded.” The report concludes that methods of accountability should be built into the magistrate’s courts, perhaps making them courts of record (using a stenographer) or requiring periodic observations by the chief district court judge. When asked whether he believed the magistrates’ court should be a court of record, Griffin said, “Heavens no, we’re trying to keep the costs down for the benefit of taxpayers. “If we were to work the way the report wants us, the magistrates’ court would be better staffed than the district courts.” Purpose and Procedure The purpose of the report is “to ascertain from observation of the Civil Magistrates’ Court in operation whether the presiding magistrates were performing their duties in accordance with the law and the interests of justice, and to inform the public and responsible officials of our conclusions.” Each of the observers who wrote affidavits underwent a training program. Two attorneys for the ACLU who had handled cases in the small claims court conducted the program. The attorneys explained the elements of the substantive law of contract, summary ejectment, and the requirements for jurisdiction of the Magistrate Court. The observers were also shown the procedure for obtaining and examining files related to the cases held in magistrate’s court. Burnette has already been nominated for her second two-year term as magistrate but remains to be confirmed. ...Plotz Talks (Continued from page 7) girls and rats, we leave you with a quote from the famous Gerald Plotz, who once ate 51 ARA Slater meatballs (cookie time), “eggs are like Davidson College; you eat too much of it and you got to blow it out your shorts.” Dana Awards $200,000 The Charles A. Dana Foundation has given a $200,000 grant to Davidson to bear Dana Science Building, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. announced Wednesday. The new Dana grant will allow completion of two 1000-square-foot laboratories, a 1500-square-foot student researchlaboratory, a science museum, several special work areas for handling radioisotopes and research animals, an equipment-preparation room, a seminar room, storage, and auxiliary facilities on the third floor of the Dana Science Building. “One fourth of our student body are now biology or premedical majors, and so this Dana gift is extremely important and deeply appreciated,” said Chairman of the Biology Department Donald Kimmel. “The traditional teaching of biology in the classrooms, supplemented by ‘cookbook’ laboratory sessions, is becoming outdated. To prepare our students in the best manner, we must give them the facilities and equipment to conduct more individual research,” Kimmel added. This gift from the Dana ...

Pressures (Continued from page 1)

Terry summarized his feelings about the symposium. “I was disappointed that the attendance wasn’t any better than it was, although it wasn’t bad. I was particularly disappointed that there wasn’t more faculty interest. There were about 15 people at the faculty meeting with Powell, and the majority were ones who already have the concerns and know the problems,” he said. Terry emphasized that students have to work out much of the problem themselves--internally. However, he believes that the symposium has helped dispel some of the myths that have grown up about academic pressure. “Pressure is a very visceral, emotional kind of feeling and we all discussed it on the most abstract and intellectual terms. This is the pattern that we use in most of our discussions,” Terry added.

First Foundation brings to more than $2 million the total given by the foundation to Davidson. Past grants to the college have gone toward the endowment, construction of Dana Science Building and Richardson Dormitory, library, student scholarships, endowed professorships, and development of a recreation area on Lake Norman. “Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Dana and their associates at the Dana Foundation have had a significant part in making Davidson what it is,” said Spencer. “This generous grant is further evidence of their interest and confidence, and we greatly appreciate it.”

Subs--Pizzas--Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers--Cold Draught
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30
Union

DAVIDSON

Davidson Notes

The Davidson College Outing Club is seeking students interested in enrolling in an American Red Cross advanced first-aid course. Outing Club President Mike Russell indicated that the Red Cross would provide the course at Davidson at a convenient time if 20 or more students enroll.

The Davidson College ROTC Department hosted representatives from nine colleges in the Charlotte Area Consortium to update neighboring institution officials with Davidson ROTC which is available to students of colleges in the consortium on a cross-enrollment basis. The course carries one physical education credit as well as the Red Cross advanced first-aid rating. Interested students should sign up on the special form located on the Outing Club bulletin board in the lobby of Chambers before leaving for Christmas vacation.

Seven Davidson students were interviewed for Rhodes Scholarship state finalist status this week. Richard Smith, Steve Dodd, Dwight Page, Jack White, Thom Nicoll, Chuck Harmon, and Blain Butner are competing for the scholarships.

Director of the North Carolina Fellows Program John D. Kelton has encouraged all freshmen interested in the program to submit their written application by the 5 p.m. deadline today.

Richard Rankin, Dave McCord, and Kevin Shelley ('77) were seriously injured Wednesday evening when their Volkswagen collided with a car in which Evelyn Raymey was riding. She is in serious condition at Memorial Hospital, and McCord suffered a broken leg and broken sternum, Shelley, a hurt back, and Rankin, lacerations and a back injury.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7 — Wed. 9-12 — Sun. 9:30-10:30
Phone 892-0208 Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main St
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

CURE “TERM PAPER FRIGHT” AT YOUR CAMPUS STORE

HATTIE’S
HAPPY HOUR — 7-9 Tues. - Fri