Twelve April 12, 1974 Abe Davidson Tales From Haiti Clarn et Menage, $1.50 By NATE BOWMAN

Since returning from my summer stay in Haiti, I have read numerous articles in magazines in which the authors absurdly
attempt to make a definitive description of the country. Even after living in Haiti for three months, I find it
difficult to arrive at any firm understanding of Haiti's radically different culture.

Besides being the poorest and most disease-ridden country in the Western Hemisphere, Haiti is also under the strict dictatorship of
Jean-Claude Duvalier, better known as “Baby Doc.” And with the exception of an occasional Coca-Cola sign or a vintage American
car, there were few signs of this country that I could detect. So, after mentioning some of these “scholarly” excuses,
I will recount some of my more memorable experiences in Haiti.

I think it only fair to point out that being deficient in two courses, it was only through the gracious
aid of Drs. Robert Ruth and Tommy Clark that I was able to take two independent courses during my stay.

My home base in Haiti was the compound of the Albert Schweitzer Hospital in DesChappelles where Davidson student Neal Gregory
toiled away for the Harvard Graduate School of Public Health. But since I was unable to find a job at
the compound, I soon left for other parts of the country, accompanied on many of my trips by Neal.

My first week in Haiti was rather uneventful mainly because I always found it so difficult to get out of
bed. Although this problem has always bothered me, I would have to place some of the blame on the heat.
Whenever I managed to keep my eyes open, I was doing my best to study Creole, a dialect of French
and the language of the Haitian people. This was imperative for two reasons: First, once you leave the capital of
Port-au-Prince, virtually no one speaks English. And second, the Haitian people are so friendly that communication with them is 90
percent of the experience.

For example, I made my first trip from the capital to the hospital compound in a bus as packed as
I've ever seen. We were riding along when suddenly I felt four hands playing with my hair. Long hair, incidentally,
is against the law for the Haitians. As I was unable to reply to the Haitian women’s giggling, I played
the fool’s part and just sat there smiling.

At the end of the first week, I ventured out by myself to a small fishing village. Although I was
the only white person in the town, I did manage to gain a bit of confidence in the language—that is,
I was able to order dinner and buy rum and cigarettes.

By the middle of the second week, I had decided to head back to the capital. Port-au-Prince offers a wide
variety of things to do for anyone but an overstuffed American woman. I frequented the larger hotels, but they were
good only if a good Haitian band were to be playing, or if you knew where to go after an
early night at the bar. If, for example, I was to meet the average Davidson male at the airport, I
would immediately whisk him off to the Club Copocabana, famous for food, drinks, music, etc., but mostly for the etc.
Where else can you buy a drink of rum?for pennies ($1.50 per bottle, to be exact) and have numerous ladies
of the night for the same price. It might be useful to point out here that virginity is not a
Haitian virtue. In fact, if a girl dies a virgin, it is widely believed that she will return at night
and forcibly seduce men to their deaths. However, my favorite nighttime spot in the capital was a card-table stand located
on the sidewalk of the main thoroughfare. The peasant proprietor here sold only “clarn,” a clear raw rum. I called
it Haitian white lightning. This is exclusively a drink of the peasants and due to the unsanitary conditions of its
production, indeed the old dirty bottles it is served in, tourists rarely hear or taste of it. Simply by drinking
the clarn, I was able to make good friends with the owner and the customers. I would sit at the
bench next to the stand, usually until around 4 a.m., talking with the usual corner people, smelling the sewer water
that trickled a few feet in front of me, listening to the noise of the traffic, wiping the dust out
of my eyes, and periodically belting down another shot of clarn. Ah, contentment.

Now that I have mentioned some of my more pleasurable experiences, I will tell of my worst night. For some
unknown reason, Neal and I took a five-hour bus trip to Gonaive, known throughout Haiti as the most malaria-infested part
of the country. The ride was extremely hot and dusty, so after a few beers we returned to our room
to do battle with the mosquitoes. Our defense was to be the best in hanging mosquito nets which completely enclosed
our cots. I was confident that I had the upper hand. However, the little beasts massed outside the net, right
opposite my two ears. The buzzing and the heat combined to bring on my destruction, i.e. “van passe” (translated “as
it goes”). Without being too explicit, the Haitian nasties continue intermittently until the body is emptied. I was devastated. Well,
I eventually regained enough strength to make it back to the hospital to fully recover and while I was there,
I received my first and last invitation to a voodoo ceremony.

Neal and I finally persuaded one of our Haitian friends to take us to one of the voodoo gatherings, a
muddy two-hour walk from the compound. A detailed description of what there is difficult and futile at this point, not
so much because of the beating of the drums, or the dancing and chanting, but because of the mood. The
two of us were treated as honored guests by the “bocor,” the priest. During the next two hours, we watched
as three people became possessed, completely satisfied that no acting took place, and we saw the bocor burn the wart
off of a man’s foot. Again, it is truly indescribable.

Before I finish, I should mention one event which had the greatest impression on me. From the balcony of one
of the small hotels in the mountains, I saw a group of the elite Haitians, the rich ones, tossing pennies
to peasant children who laughed and fought while the coins fell. The Haitian’s life is so full of poverty, disease,
and repression and yet, they can be so content.
