Gus Succop | The Davidsonian | May 3, 1974

Five Junior High School Essayists Ponder ‘Marriage And Me’

The Women’s Liberation Movement (or “Women’s Lubrication Movement” as Archie Bunker petulantly refers to it) has in essence ceased to “move.” However, the results of the initial demonstrations and the continuing repercussions from these are bountiful and gratifying. (Here! Here! Here, for co-education at Davidson C.!) With three weeks to go (HOORAY!!), it seems apropos to reminisce and give thanks for the progress we have made.

About nine years ago, I knew a little girl in junior high who was an avid writer, and even had passing fancies about reaching the heights of literary acclaim. Even at that early age, she was concerned with women and their place in society: two of her essays strike me in particular right now.

First, she wrote an essay entitled “Marriage for Me.”

“I have given a good deal of thought to that holy union known as marriage, as I am sure most girls have... I have not decided that the one and only should be any certain type. In fact, I have not decided that there will be a one and only...

“I have decided that one big definite advantage in getting married is that one does not have to live by one’s self. Of course, there are ways of not having to live by one’s self...

“It is my belief that it is far better to stay single than to marry the wrong person for the wrong reasons and then regret it. Some people marry to get away from home or for money or for other selfish reasons. Some people are so in love, especially girls, with the idea of marriage that they marry for the sake of marriage itself.

“Singleness seems to be condemned or treated as a sign of misfortune. It is worse for women than men. They are tagged old maids while men are called bachelors. Supposedly, it is dashing and suave to be a bachelor, but blackest wrong to be an old maid. I resent this strongly... I may never marry...”

In “Green-eyed Me” written a short time after “Marriage for Me,” she examines her envy of men.

“I... am jealous of boys for many reasons... One of my fondest wishes has always been to be able to wear slacks to school. There are obvious advantages. While I have to sit in a manner that is considered lady-like, boys can sprawl out in any direction they wish.

“Boys have no real problems with their hair. My hair is not one of my assets. Boys don't have to roll their hair every night. Futilely I attempt almost every night to roll my hair in some way so it will look attractive, but it never does.”

Gregory’s B-52 Herds Send Americans To Seek Shelter

Dick Gregory spoke on Tuesday night, and here it is Thursday and I’m really confused. Yes, I must admit that what Mr. Gregory said had a lot of punch to it, but how much of it will ever be felt?

I spoke with Mr. Gregory after his presentation in Love. I asked him whether we, the younger generation, had the time necessary to fix what is wrong with America. He calmly told me that we have either let “the point of no return” pass us by, or that “the point of no return” is coming upon us like a herd of B-52’s. There’s no stopping the bombs—we can't control gravity—but we can be prepared to seek shelter, and then come out to rebuild the Dresden-like America that will face us.

Of course, all of the metaphoric language is directed towards the “moral” and the “natural con-” death of our country. Mr. Gregory didn’t have to tell us that the United States is in trouble. No cop questions whether you’ve been drinking when you come out of the car smelling like a Listerine factory! Things aren’t coming up roses; you may smell them but I know you don’t see them.

What Mr. Gregory told me about the CIA’s supposed involvement in both Kennedy assassinations and the Hearst kidnapping makes my leg warm, at no fault of my own. If Mr. Gregory is all wet, I’m sure some agency will put him in his place. But what if Mr. Gregory is the “apocalyptic messenger” America has been in need of for a long time? What if all his “facts” were and will be proven true? Where does that place us?

(save your ass). Myself, I think I will follow the latter. Hitting The BooksTo what avail? It is just lucky girls can’t see themselves. “The basic thing that boys have that I envy most is their independence and freedom... No matter how much I say, this is a man’s world... Boys do have obvious advantages over girls, but girls do have some advantages over boys. I’m glad I'm a girl. After all, what would boys do without girls?” With graduation and life and more liberation and confinement coming up in the near future, at least that’s one rhetorical question we won't have to ponder too heavily.

Morris Finds Charming Tale In Life Of Washington Girl
by Willie Morris
Alfred A. Knopf, $6.95

For those who know about Willie Morris and have read Miller Claims ARA Exemptions From Minimum Wage Increases

To the Editor:
I have reason to believe that Mr. Corser (THE DAVIDSONIAN, April 26) is sadly mistaken in assuming that ARA Slater will be affected directly by the minimum wage hike signed into law by President Nixon. My reason for this is that ARA Slater is a food service and is exempt from the minimum wage law in the first place. Technically any employee of a food service can receive tips (and many do, though they don’t work for Slater), therefore, these workers are exempt from the law. From what I know, this is true; many people working for food outlets such as hamburger joints and restaurants don’t make even near the minimum wage. My first job with a grease joint started at $1.05 per hour and when I quit I was receiving only $1.35 per hour. A friend of mine made only 90¢ per hour working for a motel restaurant. A camp I worked at only paid its kitchen personnel $25 per week for about 30 hours work. All of the above examples were taken from the past year and a half. So, you see, ARA Slater isn’t required to raise its minimum wage. Their workforce would probably be depleted a little if they didn’t raise it.

Rick Miller ’77
Davidson College

(Ed. note: Although we appreciate the information in Mr. Miller’s letter, the editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN feel a responsibility to reiterate that the amendment to the minimum wage law will directly affect the ARA dining service on campus. Currently, the starting rate for full-time unskilled help is $1.65 an hour at the ARA facilities. By May 1 this rate will have to be increased to $1.90 an hour. Please note the emphasis on full-time since the new minimum wage law doesn't apply to part-time employees. We can only assume that the experiences he mentioned were part-time situations.)

Entertainment

his “North Toward Home” and “Yazoo” with the empathy of a Southerner, his latest book, “The Last of the Southern Girls,” may appear as a Godsend. Behind the book is a charming tale. For its lead character, Carol Templeton, Morris drew from his own love, D.C. socialite Barbara Howar. During his time, Howar was busily writing her semi-autobiography, “Laughing All the Way,” copies of which she was autographing in Charlotte last week. In “Akenfield,” Ronald Blythe describes an affliction whereby city emigrants once in the provinces seek out the old artifacts yet disregard the old ways. Likewise, Southern

By FRAZIER MARSH

Herb Jackson At The Mint Museum

A selection of new prints and small paintings by Herb Jackson is being featured at Gallery 501 in Charlotte until May 9. Jackson is a nationally known artist of exceptional talent. His work has been included in the collections of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, the Art Institute in Chicago, and the Ringling Museum in Sarasota, Fla. as well as the Mint Museum in Charlotte. The lithographs being shown are reminiscent of Jackson's earlier cloud series as well as a suite of etchings depicting the four elements - earth, sky, air, and water - which reflect the artist’s continuing interest with atmosphere, with what is real and not real. The Gallery is located at 501 Hermestedd Place.

writers have a habit of depicting buildings and places with little feeling for the people who built and inhabited them. Morris, however, sets out to portray both the city of Washington and the people who flow through it. At a party - and the book must refer to a hundred of them - Carol quips, “Northerners have never written about Washington because it’s too Southern, and Southerners think it too Northern.” Not one of the double-name belles of “Yazoo,” Carol has all the talents necessary to gain prominence in Washington circles: brains, caprice, irreverence, and she carries the probably read Fletcher Knebel’s books and Don