Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Eight January 25, 1974 @ke Bavtdeonian

DYLAN © By WILL ROBERTSON and RUSSELL CARTER

An expectant silence fell over the capacity crowd in Charlotte last Thursday. The house could never be more than a pleasant dream was now but a few seconds away from becoming a reality. Suddenly the spotlight caught a small figure dressed in a black suede suit onto the stage. He picked up his Stratocaster, brushed the straps around his narrow frame, and launched into the chords of “Most Likely You Go Your Way and I'll Go Mine.”

When Dylan decided to go on tour this year, he knew that he would be revisiting social consciousness, protest songs in folk style such as “The Times They Are A-Changin’” and “Blowin’ In The Wind.” But that was only part of the myths. Images of a world headed for “Desolation Row.” His followers trip was perfected in his two albums of 1965 and 1966, “Highway 61 Revisited” and “Blonde on Blonde,” recordings that some feel are superior to any pop music before or since. Never content to stay in one place, and deeply shaken by a near-fatal motorcycle accident, he moved to a softer, country-flavored sound.

It is amazing how good his voice is - “You can be in my dream, if I can be in yours” - the middle period sound and a trace of country in a mixture that is Dylan but cannot be compared directly to any previous work. After the first song, Dylan speaks for the first time: “Thank you, it’s good to be here.”

“Lay Lady Lay” is next, followed by a perfect version of “Just Like Tom Thumb’s Blues.” Then “It Ain’t Me Babe” is done with a bit of country flavor and harmonization by Richard Manuel and Robbie Robertson. “You don’t have to be a weatherman to know which way the wind is blowing.”

“Nashville Skyline” was very much in the country style, with Johnny Cash accompanying Dylan in a new version of an old song. This album spoke of gentle, rewarding love, a theme that was expressed most beautifully in “New Morning” in 1970. The mythical character who did all those things is often referred to as “the real Bob Dylan.” The more human Bob Dylan decided long ago that he was tired of being a prophet, but a myth once created is hard to dispel.

Almost 20 million requests (at $8.50 apiece) for the 658,000 tickets to see Dylan in 36 shows through 21 cities. Some wanted to see the man who wrote what was supposed to be the best rock show on the road a few years ago. And no small number just wanted to see what all the excitement was about. Acquiring tickets to the revival was a “The Ballad of Hollis Brown,” a less well-known song from a 1964 album, is effectively changed from the original acoustic form to rock. The crowd roars as Dylan puts down his Stratocaster and goes to the piano. The portrayal of the role that his fame thrust him into is done much faster than in the album, and Dylan’s voice is smoother than at any other point in the show.

This concludes Dylan’s first set and the Band plays a brief set that begins appropriately enough with “Stage Fright.” In this song, Dylan’s reaction to his last road tour, in late 1965, is described: “See the man with the stage fright standin’ up there givin’ it all his might. And he got caught in the spotlight. And when he gets to the end, he wants to start all over again.” Led by the absolutely brilliant guitar of Robbie Robertson, the group almost causes everyone to...Forget who is waiting to come back on stage. Dylan rejoins the Band performing “All Along the Watchtower,” featuring Dylan. He then announces the intermission, “We’ll be right back,” in his last spoken communication with the audience. After the break, Dylan returns alone, bearing his Martin guitar and harmonica on the neck brace. If there is in fact a “real Bob Dylan,” this is he, and the crowd loves it. First is “The Times They Are A-Changin’.” Dylan, who received a great deal of criticism for “the cause,” now confirms that he still holds to the principles he once led so many people to support. The tour reveals what Dylan’s more perceptive followers have always known, that the old songs are still alive, still available. If you don’t want to listen to what Dylan has to say on “New Morning,” then “Freewheelin’” is as accessible as your record player. “Don’t Think Twice, It’s All Right” is done softly, featuring the best harmonica performance of the night, and Dylan’s music drips with pain and conviction. 

“Gates of Eden,” Dylan’s vision, is more intense and haunting than “Ballad of a Thin Man,” Dylan's bitter ever. “Just Like a Woman” is done perfectly, with creative pacing of the words in a different style from his past renditions. The solo set ends with “It’s Alright, Ma (I’m Only Bleeding).” A great roar is raised by the lines “Goodness hides behind its gates/But even the President of the United States must sometimes have to stand naked.” The acoustic set is the high point of the concert. The songs are executed perfectly, setting an intense emotional tone. It is Dylan at his best, communicating with his audience with only vocals, guitar, and harmonica. He has changed considerably since his early fame, but he can still remember those times and is now willing to play the role he played then, if only briefly.

The opening chords of “Like a Rolling Stone” and the raising of the house lights initiate a spiritual contest to see how many people can pack themselves into the area in front of the stage. “How does it feel/To be on your own/With no direction home/A complete unknown/Like a rolling stone.” Everyone sings along as Dylan belts out a fine performance of what must be considered the best rock 'n’ roll song of the '60s. A thunderous ovation follows Dylan and the Band off stage. They return without the self-indulgent long wait that most groups seem to enjoy and repeat the opening song, “Most Likely.” It is even better than the first time. Robertson plays a spectacular break and Dylan looks up and smiles for the first time. Then it is all over. Everyone is well laid back by what is the best rock show we have ever seen or heard anything about. The power of the performance is evidenced in the people who have never had any serious exposure to Dylan but are almost as moved as the old fanatics. People look into each other’s faces, silently asking “Could you possibly have enjoyed this as much as I did?”

Dylan is back on top of the rock world. His commercial success presently is almost unbelievable. This tour will gross over $5 million and his new album has already become his 14th gold record for advance sales of over one million dollars. Judging from the concert performance of songs from it, it may be almost as good as his best. Welcome back, Bob. You were never really too far away, but it was sure good to see you for real!