Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

MIKE TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHIL STIKES, Business Manager

FOUR Y 18, 1974

Looking over our shoulder in 1964, the Visiting Committee showed us several things we hadn't seen. It called attention to the problems of commitment which remains a dilemma today. The touchy problem of athletic scholarships was pointed to, and we have since spent countless hours wrestling with a solution. The major recommendation of the Committee reinforced the college's Study, and called for a major 10-year program of library development. The Committee made its sharpest call for the college to look not only at what we had, but to examine “the basic estates that were necessary for communicative purposes.”

His vacations at the expense of millions of tax dollars. The man’s lifestyle rivals that of an oriental potentate and as such sets a poor example for the American people in a time of exhausting resources. Look elsewhere from Watergate before so completely whitewashing him.

FACULTY GUEST COLUMN
Infallibus Divides Efficacious Word

Professor of Philosophy

While perusing some of my favorite works on semantic-syntactical rules for the production of metaphors in Paraguayan rain forest cultures, I came upon the following story depicting events that took place over two thousand years ago. Aware that my discovery might rival the recovery of Aristotle's works by Averroes and Avicenna, I spent night and day translating and have rushed into print in the belief that since so many of my earlier publications have been so cruelly neglected, this one might at last save my reputation from complete extinction.

Now some notes of explanation for the ever-suffering reader. First, I do not know what this means, yet it is not utterly meaningless for like the works of the great Wittgenstein, you can pretty well read in any meaning you want just so long as you justify it with the usual high standards of philosophical analysis that we always demand. The two characters in the dialogue are Infallibus, a vigorous youth strong of body and dedicated to endless hours of navel-gazing.

Infallibus: Oh, how happy I am, what a joy to be alive and to know that I possess the truth; just think that I, born of a lowly grower of yams, have become chief of the tribe, the most respected man in my community. Aspiring upwards, at a very young age I trained myself daily in running and in spear throwing; the running just in case my spear missed the enemy, and the spear throwing just in case I had my back to the wall, couldn't run, and couldn’t afford to miss. And then one day it happened. In the attack upon a fortified village, facing the enemy's gate, I threw my spear at the leader of the opposition who was bearing down on me like a thundering herd of yaks and in my own infallible way, I missed him, but a most amazing thing happened: My spear hit...the sign into two parts, parsing the name of the village. Not only did the parts of the sign fall and kill the man intent upon killing me, but the village was also destroyed since among efficacious words, things fall apart when the center no longer holds.

Philosophicus: But my boy, we political philosophers have assumed for years that one spear was worth a thousand words and now you have demonstrated just the opposite, that one word split in half is worth a thousand spears. The next thing I know you will want to take your spear and split my omphalos into two parts and what part of speech will I be then?

Infallibus: Not only did I learn that to divide is to conquer, but I learned that to change the meanings of common words is to control. So I hired the best medicine men that spears could threaten and forced them to alter charts to fit my own political platform. The word backed by a spear and hawked by a shaman produced infallibility, hence my name Infallibus. Meteoric was my rise to chiefdom. Glory, riches, and votes came my way with little or no effort. No longer did I have to eat the lowly yam; rather, yak milk and barracuda became my everyday fare. But even at this pinnacle, I feel uneasy for there are rumors about the village over that sign that I split in half at the enemy village.

Philosophicus: Macerated though I am through long years of pursuing my profession, I must confess that your story revives a certain determination in me to discern the nature of your power. I noticed that some of the tribe were making obscene gestures behind my back after having just prostrated themselves to my face. Several of my shamans killed them instantly for we can brook no dissent, especially since one gesture might be worth a thousand words and a thousand spears. Walking on further, by the way, I can no longer run since that diet of yak milk and barracuda has added so much weight, I pondered the reason for those gestures. Then I came to my senses and realized that they were probably jealous of my rich diet and so to increase the richness of theirs, I raised the price of yams steeply.

Philosophicus: What has been the result of such an intelligent move?

Infallibus: By the way, Philosophicus, Phaloskepis, do you gaze at the center or the periphery? (With a spear, Infallibus thrust it into the center of Philosophicus' navel and screamed:) Take that, you old idiot! Was not my rise to power the result of dividing a center? How can you concentrate upon the rim when dividing the center remains the fundamental answer to all questions? I will not grant tenure to anyone in my village who cannot see the value of dividing the center even though it leads to chaos.

Dying, Philosophicus managed to gasp a final question.

Philosophicus: Infallibus, what did you say the words were that your spear split in the name of that village?

Infallibus: Those sacred and beautiful words upon which my power depends were ‘water’ and ‘gate’.