The Third Annual Davidson National Print And Drawing Show

By VINCE RABIL
Staff Writer

The Third Davidson National Print and Drawing Show opened Sunday in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Herb Jackson, director of
the show, feels that this is by far the best of the three Davidson Nationals.

This show is the largest of its kind in the country. There were nearly 4,000 initial entries from which Juror
Walter Darby Barnard selected 169. The entries came from all states, and the final selection represents the work of 139
artists from 30 states.

Jackson commented that the overall quality of the entries was very high. He believes that Barnard’s final choice is representative
of the “wide variety of interests being explored in American art today.”

Jackson indicated that the growing influence of the photograph is more strongly reflected in works exhibited this year than those
exhibited in the 1972 show.

There are perhaps more examples of realism and photo-realism in this show than in previous ones. However, there is such
a wide variety of styles, techniques, and types of art that it is hard to make any generalizations or characterizations
of one work as typical of the show.

One very atypical work is an intaglio by 1973 Davidson graduate Ken Freed. His “North Dakota Print Studio” may be
a personal statement about that particular spot. Is there a significant allegorical meaning behind the two superimposed images in the
right-hand side of the work?

This work seems to be typical of Freed’s bold, personal treatment of spatial relationships and surface textures. It seems to
elicit feelings of ambiguity and ostentation in the viewer. Four of the more nationally known artists do not seem to
be riding into the show on the power of photographic illuminations or massive pen and ink miniatures. They appear more
confident in their expressions of personal styles.

These artists are Alexander Calder who presents “Stone Age” and “Blue Moon.” These two works provide a pleasant relief from
the assaults of neo-Medieval miniatures and onslaughts of photo-realistic phantasia.

Other big names to look for at the show are Will Barnet, Robert Goodnough, and Robert Natkin.

George Kitta has done two of the more fantastic and sensational prints. Both are lithographs. One is quite appropriately arranged
on a stage where King Kong has been transformed into a fur coat. The other is a spectacular transmutation of
the Hindenburg zeppelin disaster of the 1930s.

Robert Nelson, who has been represented in the Davidson show all three times, has produced a lithograph titled “Zeppelin Commander.”
He seems to be the perfect mechanized commander for today’s fully mechanized army. He comes equipped with a pie in
the sky, six shooters, hydraulic appendages, patent leather boots, and a sneer.

They obviously show photographic influences but are executed in such a way that the artist seems to have relied upon
emotional rather than visual laws as guiding principles.

“The Three Hearts” by R. Jackson Smith is the most distracting epistemic correlation in the show. Amazing things have been
done in pencil. Joe Allen achieves hypersensitive value gradations in “Waiting Room.”

Shiela Bocock’s “Luncheon of Honor ’55” is simple, elegant, and very human. Is your grandmother here? Mine is the one
on the right.

Be sure not to miss Karen Allen’s “Chess Game” when you see the show. It is stuck in a corner.
Her very clean, unique style makes this pencil drawing a little wonder.

Edward Shalala seems to have captured the best of all styles in his very straightforward mezzotint “Eraser.” His black is
the blackest black ever seen in a Davidson National.

David Becker’s “In a Dark Time” brings to mind visions of a twentieth-century black death. However, this sensation does have
a little damper on it.

The two pencil drawings which I admire the most are “Unrolling Series IV” by Lowell C. Tolstedt, an extremely ambitious
work which must have required 12,000 No. “2” pencils to bring to completion, and “Cat” by Helmut Schmitt.

Schmitt demonstrates mastery in pencil. He reveals a great versatility in the correct exposition of many textures. The intended allegory
in his subject matter may be trite, but his style and control of pencil more than compensate.

In summary, the show is impressive, of high quality, and the place to go on campus if you are searching
for inspiration, for a place to purchase a great work of art, or to get into visual mind games.

The Davidson National will be eliciting ooh’s and aah’s until March 19.
