Eight ANTICIPATION Davidson goalie Charlie Slagle prepares to confront his foe during Saturday’s match. IMAC Report - November 1, 1974
The Davidsonian (Photo by Grange)

Soccer Cats Bypass Furman In Close, Clumsy Contest
By FRANK STIEFEL
Staff Writer

After several disappointing games in a row, the fortunes of Davidson’s soccer team finally took a turn for the better.
They picked up a 2-1 victory over Furman last weekend.

At the game’s onset, Davidson was in trouble. Furman quickly got into scoring range and after a few tense moments,
were awarded an indirect shot on the Cats’ goal. The shot was horrible, but in the ensuing scuffle, a Davidson
player was guilty of a hands violation. The Paladins converted, and the Cats suddenly found themselves in a hole.

That goal was to prove to be the only offense the Paladins could muster. Davidson quickly went on the attack.
They continued to keep excellent pressure on the goal, but couldn’t seem to get the ball in.

Gnads Tumble To SAE #2, Bolstered Zoo Wins
By CAPTAIN AMERICA and BUCKY
With B.B. and M.T.

As we sit here waiting for the Ali-Foreman fight, attempting to avoid homework and thus please the Dread Dormammu, we
have decided to pump out another ludicrous IMAC column. And believe us, the scores this week are ridiculous.

Starting the parade, the rowdy Rincoon Rangers defeated Phi Delt #2, 43-37. Meanwhile, Ed F. Sibbly, better known as Jake
Scott, led the KA’s past the number one Delt squad, 25-7. The Delts didn’t retaliate with a road trip, however.
They’ve just been chanting a few incantations to Latannish (undoubtedly led by that pagan Tom Ioanes). Next week sometime, the
KA’s should wake up with cravings for watermelons, chitlings, and shining shoes. Just kidding, Black Student Coalition (it would be
pretty funny if you woke up as KA’s one day too, you’ve got to admit). To paraphrase Marie Antoinette, “Let
them eat eggrolls.”

Mousing right along or plodding right along if you critics prefer, the Sky-Hi Cleveland Indians nipped scrappy Richardson III, 14-7,
in a close one. Now we know that the SPE’s beat the Tribe Monday 18-7, but that’s all we’re gonna
say about that travesty of good and evil. Reality is what you want it to be says Dr. Q. Any
backtalk from the SPE’s and we’ll rag on you good next week, dig?

The Chocolate Speedway stuck up the cave dwellers of Richardson’s basement, 12-0, to make up for their early-season forfeit. Yawn.

On Thursday, the Zoo, bolstered by the addition of the infamous P and David (Sports Information) Strong, lost once more
to an arrogant SPE pledge type team, R II, 38-31. Karen Hand had the best game of her short career,
with three TD’s and some great spikes, but the impunity (great word) of R II was enough to hold off
the rampaging beasts.

In a battle of two undefeated teams, SAE #2 continued their success by nipping the Gnads 6-0 in double overtime,
in a classic OT thriller. Tough break for the best frosh team of the year.

Steve Canterbury’s Captain Boxwood team continued to get zonked as this time they lost to Pika in a relatively close
18-6 game. Canterbury left ATO, and they got better, and Capt. Boxwood seems doomed. Canterbury has not played in anIMAC
game on the winner’s side since we’ve been here, which is the dawn of time, it seems like. To round
out Thursday’s action, I Felta Thi, down 20-0 with 17 minutes to go, rallied for a 38-20 win over the
choker-prone ATO’s. The Thi’s were led ably by George Loy and Ken Schmeder who earlier secured his release from the
library to flicker. In a Monday game, CLAP, led by Kirk Brown and Reggie “Token” Harding, led a second-half charge
to defeat Cannon II, 32-6. Cannon IV beat SAE #3, 34-32, in what must have been a good game, despite
the turkey ref’s failure to put highlights on the scorecard. Get with it you clowns; you’re getting two bucks, so
just don’t make bad calls. The Coach and Six won with some ringer play from Dave Moses, Donny Carroll, and
Twice Chip “the Phantom” Stone, who continually ran the sleeper against the PGD defense which could never find him. Player-coach
Jeff “Wheels” Frank continued to add evidence as to why he should only coach as he clamored for more IMAC
press. Oh yea, the SPEs won too, as earlier mentioned, but we said we wouldn’t discuss those peahead turkeys anymore.
See? We kept our promise. On Tuesday, the Zoo, almost half male in total now, won their second game by
adding (See ZOO, page 12).

Friday, Nov. 1 8 & 10:30 P.M.

...a foot on the ball when it really counted. Tom Blackwood still wasn’t up to par, with his leg injury
still nagging him. The Cats kept the pressure on for most of the half, but the score remained the same.
Finally, as the half was about to close, Dave Patton fired a hard shot from relatively close which beat the
Furman goalie. The half ended with the teams locked in a 1-1 tie. As the second half started, the Cats
picked right up where they’d left off. Davidson could have scored a few more goals, but the combination of some
missed calls, missed shots, and Furman play stopped that. The Davidson offense was getting very frustrated at so totally dominating
a team but failing to score. At about the mid-point of the half, Tom Blackwood made a beautiful move and
was headed for a sure goal, when a Furman player interfered with him. No call was made by the referee.
Blackwood momentarily lost his composure and left the game. He was not ejected, but merely lifted by coach Chip Stone.
The Cats continued to fight but couldn’t score, until with about 10 minutes left in the game, their efforts were
rewarded. In another of their many bombardments of the Paladin goal, Jack Linard was finally able to slip one by
their goalie, kicking it by the goalie after his first shot had been blocked. That was the way the game
ended, as Davidson walked off with a frustrating 2-1 win. Davidson plays a very important game this Friday when they
host powerful...

Mitchem Opticians
Fast & Accurate Service
Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician
- Glasses Repaired
- Glasses Adjusted
- Prescriptions Filled
206 N. Main Ph. 663-3942
Mooresville

D.C. FILMS PRESENTS
Jimmy Stewart - Cheyenne Social Club
Henry Fonda

The FIRST and ONLY Bank To Offer Students MASTERCHARGE
