Two February 15, 1974

Dear Davidsonian:

Altered BSC Policy

The college calendar calls for exams to be taken on Feb. 19, 20, and 21. During each examination session, you will write a particular exam. Exams will be available in Chambers Hall between 8:40 and 9:15 for morning sessions and 1:40 and 2:15 for the afternoon. Go to any classroom in Chambers and write the exam. Room 236 in Chambers is to be used exclusively by students authorized by the professor to use tables, charts, etc.

Each examination envelope turned in will be available in advance when you go to Chambers and ask for the envelope containing the exam you want to take at that time. The envelopes will be arranged alphabetically by the student's name. The yellow card will be detached and retained by the examination staff. The envelope with the red card still attached and containing the questions and your answers may be returned as early as 11:45 in the morning and 2:45 in the afternoon and must be returned before the deadline of 12:15 for the morning session.

The honor pledge must be signed at the examination center table as you turn in the exam envelope. The yellow card, now receipted by the examination center, will be returned to the student; hold that card until a grade is received. In case of any irregularities, it is the student's evidence that he turned in the exam envelope containing exam materials.

Precinct II Security

By CHARLES SEWELL

Managing Editor: BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Sports Editor: MARK WILENSKY

Senior News Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
TOM BRUCE
JOE EARLE

Associate Editors:
ALAN BLAKLEY
DOUG BROWN
STEVE CANTERBURY
TODD EADES
MARY HOBBIE
GUS SUCCOP
MARY TURNER
MILES WARD

Operations Manager: BILL ELLETT

Assistant Managing Editors:
MATTHEW COVINGTON
CHARLES KENNON
LARRY MIMMS

Assistant Sports Editors:
LESTER ABERGER
MARK CONNORS

Assistant Business Manager:DAVID TRADER
Circulation: RICKY BELL
JEFF NEIKIRK
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKCOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Contributors this week: Pete Celentano, Woody Connette, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Bill Lloyd, Frazier Marsh, Joe McMillan

...are citizens and want to be treated like [citizens]. However, both Meetze and Hughes urge students not to hesitate to call whenever they see something suspicious on the floor in Watts and the Science Building (SB). Simply packing up these phones, individuals will be in contact with the police station.

A recent case points up the essential role that students must play in security affairs. A call from Belk dorm clinched the capture of three persons from Smithville and one from Cabarrus County who were making off with an estimated $200.00 worth of records. About a dozen of the records were recovered, and the bandits have been charged with second-degree burglary. Dean of Students Will Terry is pleased with the new security system. However, he commented that an earlier call from the students in Belk dorm may have resulted in a lesser charge for the offenders in the previously mentioned case. The maximum punishment for second-degree burglary in North Carolina is life imprisonment.

In spite of the intensified security, some small offenses have occurred. A couple of signs were taken from business establishments in town, but these were later returned. Also, during Midwinters weekend, the new sign in front of the security building and the blue light on top of the security cart were taken. Hughes hopes that these items will be returned.

Development Secures Fund-Raising Record
In the first seven months of this fiscal year, the Davidson development staff has raised $1,822,463 in cash. This is a 35% increase over the $1,343,248 raised for the same seven months last year. Notably, the total cash raised for the entire fiscal year 1970-71 was $1,136,000. The first seven fiscal months ending January 31, 1974, show the Annual Fund at $124,617, as compared with $117,000 last year. This increase is a big percent jump, perhaps expressive fund-raising on behalf of the Wildcat Fund. As of Jan. 31, there was a $1000 increase, to $132,000, over last year. Winston called this increase “a tribute to Sandy, the alumni, and hard work.” Last fiscal year a total of $2,294,000 was raised. This figure was a seventy percent leap over the previous year's total sum. Winston said that he was hopeful that this total could be surpassed but would not forecast by how much.

North Carolina Fellows
The following freshmen were selected as N.C. Fellows during the final selection weekend at Montreat Feb. 8, 9, 10. N.C. Fellows Inc. selects members on the basis of leadership potential.

In addition to campus security measures, Meetze has been instrumental in the Association of Campus Law and studies comparative systems of security enforcement.

Football (Continued from page 1)
The coach takes over and with the program in general. “The main reason for his coming to Davidson in the first place was to gain experience in the coaching field. We felt that he could help us while gaining that experience.” Cartmill has said (in an interview with the Charlotte Observer) that he felt Roberts’ age and lack of head-coaching experience would be factors against him if he were to apply for the job now. But he would still be considered, even though the selection is now down to four or five final applicants. Roberts had no idea the players were drawing up a petition. The only two who did not sign the list were two married players who were not available at the time the petition was being circulated. Bevan stated that they hoped to make a decision within the next ten days as to who the new head football coach will be.

Pat M. Baskin
Dana English
Sally M. Bondurant
Peyton J. Marshall
Richard N. Boyce
William L. Moore
Eugene P. Brantly, Jr.
Ruth C. Murphy
Walter E. Broadhead
Steven M. Peeples
Stephen M. Crane
Nancy Lee Petrowski
Robert J. Earnest
Laurie H. Schnackenberg
Robert A. Snow