Gee Davidsonian - Eight February 6, 1974

America Faces Impeachment Prospect

Impeachment will inevitably be a clash of parties.

Inquiry into Richard Nixon to Judiciary Committee.

- Rudolph

(Continued from page 4)

Space concept is a denial of the richness and complexity of life that architecture must celebrate. I want to accentuate the differences in life, not nullify them.

Typical of a dormitory, Rudolph has provided a variety of floorplans for the individual suites. The richness and complexity of life which could be lived in these suites is further enhanced by a variety of floor levels. Since the floor of the sleeping/dressing alcoves in each of the suites is designed to be about a foot above that of the suite’s central core, the transitions from one area to another are accentuated both psychologically and kinesthetically.

Like many of the architects of the third generation, Rudolph emphasizes process rather than stasis, growth rather than conservatism. He affirms the complexities and contradictions of life and believes that the architectural spaces which he creates must produce an environment in which the human psyche is not only permitted but actually stimulated to grow. "Structure is not an end, nor a beginning, but a means to an end--and that end is to create space that is an appropriate psychological environment."

I believe that the structures Rudolph has designed for Davidson College will provide the means to such an end. However, at the same faculty meeting in which the need for additional facilities for the visual arts was stressed, it was also announced that, for financial reasons, the construction of the Rudolph buildings might have to be temporarily postponed.

But because “temporary alternatives” have a way of becoming permanent solutions (For the student union, “temporary” is now being defined as “at least twenty years”), I fear that we may be dealing a real blow to the future of the visual arts at Davidson if we fail now to commit ourselves to the task.

Chaired by Peter Rodino, the 17-21 straight party vote gave Rodino sole power. He then said he would "define the nature and scope" of the staff's work. The $1 million appropriation then passed 267-51.

There was concern on the lack of minority involvement in the investigation. The following day, Rodino announced an advisory group for the inquiry.

Rodino did not consult any of the committee in naming Jon Doar as counsel. Even the matter of a timetable is potentially a question of partisanship. Some wanted the committee to work through the January recess to expedite its decision. Rodino refused. (Rodino faces the possibility of a strong primary challenge from a black candidate in his 52% black Newark district).

But the further into the spring or summer the investigation goes, the more likely additional “bombshells” will hurt him. And public opinion at the time of the vote will be a crucial factor.

It will be interesting, to say the least.

Jingle To The Editor

My dear Mr. Nixon? Of course I condone,
Each and every sweet thing that he’s done.

How sad that you labor to cast him away,
Would he were back with me in my day.

- Marquis de Sade