Ten November 1, 1974 The Davidsonian

Cross-Country Ends With 9-3 Record

The 1974 version of the cross-country team has come to the conclusion of its most successful season ever, and are much the worse for the wear.

Monday, Martin’s Marauders were wiped off the map in Virginia, losing 15-46 to a powerful Richmond team. The Cats' dual meet record is thus complete at 9-3.

The race was a debacle for the Cats. Sterling Martin summed it all up as he collected the place-markers, “terrible, terrible.”

It is no bad reflection on the team, though, because they have completed an incredibly exhausting schedule, running 12 times in a month.

Also, Richmond’s team is scholarship-subsidized, which is to say, they are mercenaries in comparison to Davidson’s solid yeomen, who run for the sheer hell of it. So there.

Coty Pinckney was sixth overall, and first for the Cats.

Bill McClement and “Lube” Deal finished eighth and ninth, and “Old Reliable” Lautensack and Jeff “the Cat in the Hat” Neikirk rounded out Davidson’s first five.

The last challenge for the ’74 Cats and the epochal seniors of ’75 will come Saturday in Williamsburg, Va. in the conference meet.

Senior Lautensack predicts “a fifth place finish at best, and eighth place at worst.” Captain Rick Bell summed up the problem facing the Cats.

“Our biggest difficulty will be getting psychologically up for one more run. It’s been a fun year, but it’s been a long one,” Bell said.

It’s been a good year, too, Captain Bell. The Cats did not lose a single meet to a similarly-constituted team; all defeats were at the hands of scholarship schools. And some scholarship programs went down to defeat before the Marauders nevertheless, notably Wake Forest and High Point. Then, too, Citadel, VMI, and W&L were dazed and confused to come up short against Davidson.

The 9-3 record that the team compiled is unprecedented, and is all the more outstanding in comparison with the records of the past few years: 7-5 (’73), 5-5 (’72), 5-10 (’71), and 1-14 (’70). In addition, Pinckney’s five consecutive first-place finishes were a remarkable achievement, as were the sweep of victories over arch-rivals such as The Citadel, Wake Forest, and VMI.

Regardless of how the Cats fare on Saturday, the 1974 Wildcat Cross Country season will not be soon forgotten, at home or abroad.

P.E. Credit Offered By Outing Club Trip

The purpose of the Outing Club is, according to its president Mike Russell, to make the outdoors easily accessible to the Davidson community. In this sense, all of Davidson is a “member” of the Outing Club. For this membership, the club provides a number of services, among which is an information library.

Russell said that this contains a bibliography of books in the college library on a wide range of subjects, a set of maps of the mountainous regions of North Carolina, and information on environmental concerns.

The Outing Club also views itself, Russell stated, “in an educational role in the outdoors.” Towards this end, it is providing a series of “seminars” to the community. The first of these covers the subject of mountaineering and will take place on the weekend of Nov. 8-10.

“These seminars are geared towards the individual who knows little to nothing about the subject but who wishes to learn the skills necessary to participate safely in any future related activities,” he added.

The mountaineering seminar will consist of a three-day-long session. The first Friday evening will consist of safety procedures and basic knot-tying instruction. The Saturday and Sunday sessions will take the participants to Hanging Rock, above Winston-Salem, and actually teach the proper climbing techniques.

As an added incentive, the P.E. department has agreed to give credit to any student who successfully completes the course.

The Outing Club has added another dimension to its membership, Russell continued. “For those people who wish to support the work of the Outing Club, there is now a classification labeled ‘voting member.’ To obtain this status, the student need only pay two dollars to the club.”

Russell indicated that for this sum the donor receives a number of “worthwhile benefits,” including the right to vote in all elections and referendums, permission to check out Outing Club rental equipment at no charge, and a club group membership discount on equipment purchases.

The Outing Club does not wish to limit itself to the students alone, Russell indicated. “We therefore are extending our services to the community. Established already is an Explorer Post jointly sponsored by the club with APO to reach the young people in Northern Mecklenburg,” he explained.

Photo by Goodman

1974 DAVIDSON CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM

Starts FRIDAY 1615 ELIZABETH AVE.

“One small step for man, but one giant orgy for mankind.” — Penthouse

“FLESH GORDON is a frisky, feisty takeoff! It’s all camp! It's fun! It’s laughs!” — Bob Salmaggi, WINS Radio

“FLESH GORDON is the movie of the moment—the one that those in the know are lining up for... Go—just for the hell of it!” — New York Soho News

AN OUTRAGEOUS PARODY OF YESTERYEARS' SUPERHEROES!

AND NOT TO BE CONFUSED WITH THE ORIGINAL “FLASH GORDON”