BOOM!! Sheldon Parker muscles in for an easy two points, leaving Richmond players flatfooted and staring in awe.

Lady Cats Play Tough Romp To 52-38 Win
By TRACY CHARLES
Staff Writer

“The women’s basketball team’s strengths this year are height, intelligence, and good poise,” remarked Assistant Wildkitten Coach Joe Duncan after last Tuesday’s game with UNC-C. The 14-point spread between Davidson, who finished on top 52 to 38, and UNC-C was the result of a good defensive game, keeping the UNC-C cagers to 9 out of an attempted 43 hoops (21 percent from the floor).

“Offensively, the team was very steady, but our shooting was cold, particularly in the first half,” said Duncan. Kathy Morton led the Davidson drive with 15 points, followed by Donna Sherrill with 13, and Becca Stimson with eight points.

“This was probably not one of our better games,” commented Duncan, “especially in light of the last two, where we played really well.” The women’s basketball team has recently contended with Guilford and the erstwhile undefeated Southpark Queens All-Stars. In spite of a strong showing in both games, Katie Early feels that, in the game against the Southpark Queens, “we weren't aggressive for the ball.” In the first half “the All-Stars were and forced a lot of turnovers,” Early said. “We started controlling the ball during the second half and were more patient in taking shots.” The All-Stars left their match and a devastated Davidson with a 13-1 win/loss record.

Questioned on the team’s weaknesses, Head Coach Ann Holland stated that “they simply haven't played enough together. We have a tough time getting the ball down the floor.” Holland also stated, “we are having a tough time attacking the zone - we are passing quicker though.” As a result of previous games, the team is starting to function as a unit. “They are starting to set picks for each other - 10 more games and we would be extremely competitive,” said Holland. She intends to concentrate on offensive tactics - fast breaks and quick ball handling in the next few weeks to prepare for games against Pfeiffer, Sacred Heart, and UNC-C. Holland specifically noted the women’s proficiency in the shuffle-cut as their crush tactic on man-to-man defenses. “This year’s prospects are very encouraging,” she stated. “We are losing only one player.” Team Captain Dea Booth is a junior and the other members are all freshmen.

It is not standard procedure for the women’s basketball team to scout contending teams. Holland says, “it makes them think and keeps them on their toes.” With Catawba, the most competitive team the women play, behind them, Holland said, “we have only lost one this season.” Many as 25 points. A meager six-point lead at intermission was widened by a 30-11 spurt in the initial 10 minutes of the second half. Led by the aggressive board play of Larry Horowitz and Paul Wagner, the Wildcats had an almost 2-1 margin in rebounds. Before getting into foul trouble, Sheldon Parker contributed some strong work on the offensive boards, as well. Richmond high scorer Aron Stewart was held to nineteen points and 7-20 from the field. First Greg Dunn and then T. J. Pecorak spent the night pursuing Stewart all over the court.and for the most part, many of the turnovers were just the inevitable consequence of that style of play. The Cats’ running, boardwork, defense, and Southern Conference play. The Cats have another Southern Conference game this week, visiting the Citadel in a regionally televised game Saturday afternoon.

Three-Minute Giant Killer

Post-mortems are always unhappy affairs, especially if the unfortunate victim is close to you. In this case, the victim was Davidson, who died suddenly last Saturday in South Bend, Indiana after a heroic struggle against Notre Dame. The game went pretty much as Notre Dame took command of the boards and dominated much of the game. The game was sloppy at the start, with Notre Dame shooting poorly, and Davidson, for the greater part, looked like they were playing the conqueror of UCLA. The Wildcats got off to a fast start, but in a scene reminiscent of the Duke debacle only four days previously, turnovers led to strings first of nine, and later of 11 Irish points. Despite all the disappointment and aggravation of watching a favorite team get beaten, it was all worth watching to see those last, sweet five minutes. Then the team was running and hitting, forcing Notre Dame into numerous errors, both offensive and defensive. Now it was the Irish who looked like losers. Basket after incredible basket was canned as the Irish lead, once a bloated 17 points, shrank to only seven in the space of 100 seconds. With a minute and a half left, there was a chance for a tremendous upset. Then, in a flash, it was over. The Irish awoke and Davidson, racing against the clock and pressing themselves into errors, was finished. Notre Dame put on one final six-point spurt and the game was back in perspective. But oh, that three-minute burst! It was good to see a smaller, hustling ballclub give a national powerhouse all it could handle if only for a little while. I'm sure Digger Phelps won't soon forget those three minutes, nor will the Notre Dame fans. Last of all, I'll never forget that magical point in time when, just for a little while, Davidson was battling a giant, and winning.

One other bit of fluff before closing. This is to announce the first annual DAVIDSONIAN “All Anything Team Awards.” Make up a team of obscure (or not so obscure) athletes (male or female) from college (See CONTEST, page 11).

YOUR FIRST YEAR & commercial flying career... you may qualify. PLUS $9,800 INCOME. And that's only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on an impressive $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits including 30 days paid vacation annually, free worldwide air travel, medical care, and much more. If you're between 20½ and 26½, a senior or graduate student, United States Air Force.