The Antithetical Automatic Audit

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

OCTOBER 4, 1974

Let By-Laws Be By-Gones

A milestone in the history of the student voice in campus politics is about to be reached. However, the work leading to the formulation of the new SGA By-Laws has been tedious rather than glamorous, and thus has gone largely unnoticed. This milestone deserves hearty recognition and support. The new By-Laws are the culmination, from the student point of view, of four years of campus-wide governance discussions. They are the major student statement of what we feel governance is all about. Long hours have been spent over the summer and during the first few weeks of school in constructing the By-Laws. On Tuesday, Oct. 8th, they will be formally presented in a student referendum. It is of vital importance that students take the time to familiarize themselves with this important document and cast informed votes.

Briefly, the By-Laws have a significant thrust in three major directions:

First, a Bill of Rights outlines in formal tones the position of the student at Davidson College. It is a very thoughtful document drawn from personal assessments of our unique situation and from prominent publications of student and professional academic associations across the country.

Second, a section deals with the structure of campus governance and makes very clear the channels through which the students are insured a voice in the decisions affecting them.

Third, the basic structure of the SGA and its affiliated organizations is listed in great detail. Many needed changes have been incorporated in this outline.

The Bill of Rights section is necessarily strong, and is the most fascinating aspect of the work. The remaining sections are equally important in the care in which they preserve the students’ rights of full participation in the life of the college. We wholeheartedly urge that students give their full approval to the By-Laws. If passed, they are to be forwarded to the Trustees where continued vocal student support will be needed. Take some time to familiarize yourself with this important document. It is the result of much thoughtful work and lies at the heart of student interests. If passed, it will serve as a landmark statement of intelligent and active student involvement in college life for years to come. The By-Laws have been placed on their feet; your interest and votes are needed to send them running.

Counseling Psyched Up

Thought flows continuously at Davidson. The student remembers the past, endures the present, but most important, he anticipates the future. Who was it that said, “Anticipation is the mother of anxiety”? He must have been a college student. The student’s world is one of his thoughts and his memories. The pleasant thoughts and memories tend to stay with us and fortunately, the not-so-pleasant thoughts and memories dissipate with time. But not always. So when the student is troubled he often seeks the counsel of his peers and more often than not, this is all that is needed. Yet the time will arrive for most all of us when we need the counsel of more experienced ears than those of our friends.The college has recognized this fact and has taken significant steps toward providing such experienced ears for the student. Amelia Dockery has joined Meredith Hall, with Gatewood Workman returning to the counseling staff winter quarter when he returns from Europe, to form a counseling staff that is willing and able to handle the greatest or the smallest of problems. The college is to be congratulated for this expansion of counseling services as an active part of what Davidson has to offer its students. What is currently needed is student recognition. If the service of counseling is to operate effectively at Davidson, it must be made known among the students. Anxieties often do the greatest damage when kept inside. With this thought, we suggest that it is the duty of each Davidson student to spread the word of the counseling services to all those who might profit by a visit to the office of Hall and Dockery. If counseling is to work at Davidson, it must be accepted and word of it must be spread by those who care.

Faculty Guest Column: T-Bird Recreates Nader Curriculum
By THOMAS F. CLARK
Professor of Religion

What did you think of Ralph Nader’s suggestion that the Davidson curriculum include a course entitled JESSE HELMS 101? The audience responded favorably, perhaps more because the idea was humorous than that it could be a new way of studying the subject of government. Singling out one individual as a subject for study is not a novel approach, however. Shakespeare has long commanded entire courses for himself. Even Socrates and Plato are more able to stand alone than Newman and Redford. Each area of the liberal arts has its superstars, its Paul Tillichs, its Frank Lloyd Wrights, and its Mozarts. But Jesse Helms?! If Sam Ervin is to be bypassed in favor of the very junior senator from North Carolina, then perhaps this is a sign of the times that should be noted. The various departments will have to start considering some substitute courses. For instance, the Drama and Speech department may replace their “Seminar in Performing Arts” with a course on RON ZEIGLER. “Intermediate German” could be replaced by HOGAN’S HEROES 36. And a course on Elizabethan Literature will be discarded for one on RICHARD BURTON. JACQUELINE ONASSIS will naturally take the place of “Beginning Greek,” and BEBE REBOZO will replace “Managerial Economics.” The Psychology department can have a tutorial on THE PRE-ADOLESCENCE OF BELLA ABZUG, and a popular Biology department course might be listed as “RAQUEL WELCH no. 40-24-34.” The possibilities appear to be endless. The Physical Education department can study the baseball tactics of CHARLIE BROWN. The Military Science department can embody the two careers of General Alexander Haig under the title of HAIG & HAIG. That present courses oftentimes spend too much time studying second-rate authorities is something I will have to acknowledge. Furthermore, it irritates the beam in my own eye to admit that it is tempting for an instructor to allow his own personality to get more priority than the course material. Still, maybe we truly are in for a new focus in the classroom. I anxiously await the next edition of the Davidson catalogue. Perhaps it will include a course to be offered by the consumer advocate himself, imaginatively entitled RALPH NADER 102.

Up In The Air