. FOURTH AND EIGHT
Harper hits Pomeroy for nine yards to save the winning scoring drive.

Wildcats Get First Win

Good Luck Zaps Hamp

Saturday’s Homecoming victory saw two strings snapped, a record set, and a new outlook cast on Davidson football. The Wildcats’ four-game losing streak was broken at the cost of Hampden-Sydney’s string of five wins after losing their opener.

Joe Duncan's first-quarter 49-yard field goal was a Davidson record, and Coach Ed Farrell was encouraged by what he saw in the process.

“I thought in parts of the game we came closer to playing as we should; in parts, we did fairly well. The fact that we were always in the game made a difference,” said Farrell.

“I was especially happy with the team’s performance under pressure. This is essential for a good team,” Farrell said.

The Wildcats had plenty of pressure to perform under in the fourth quarter. With 4:32 left in the game, Davidson, trailing 16-10, had to punt from its own 20.

But Hampden-Sydney fumbled two plays later, and Wildcat quarterback Dave Harper assumed control as he engineered what was to be the winning drive.

Emotions in the game reached a high point when the march stalled just inside Tiger territory. At the Hampden-Sydney 44, with fourth down and eight, Harper threw to split end Gary Pomeroy for nine yards.

Pomeroy caught the ball in mid-air, beyond the down marker, and he was hit immediately while still in the air. The tackle drove him back past the marker, and Pomeroy fumbled the ball. The umpire who made the controversial first down call relied on his own judgment and gave Davidson the first down. Two plays later, Larry Hardaway scored on a 23-yard trap play.

Farrell stated that the umpire who made the call was standing right at the down marker looking at the spot where the reception was made. He made the call immediately, and he didn’t seem to see the fumble,” Farrell explained.

“The question was one of whether Pomeroy had control of the ball when he was hit and where his forward motion was stopped, not whether he fumbled,” he continued. Farrell added that the game film doesn’t clarify the question.

Farrell said that he was especially pleased with the caliber of ball played by the Wildcats in the first half. He credited this as being the reason for the 10-0 lead he enjoyed at halftime.

“Throughout the first half we played consistent, good football. We had steady drives that set up Duncan’s field goal and Harper’s scoring run.

“Sustaining good drives like this and stopping the opponents’ drives are the marks of a good team, and these have been major problems in our previous games,” Farrell said.

Larry Hardaway rolls away for yardage in pursuit of 99 yards and the team season high.

Duncan’s kick was the climax of a 45-yard drive that required 12 plays. Harper ran four yards to cap an 80-yard march that took only eight plays, one of which was a 15-yard run by Hardaway and another a bomb to Pomeroy.

Farrell was displeased with the inability of the Wildcats to maintain momentum once it was established. (Hampden-Sydney scored 13 points in the third quarter on two touchdowns, failing to get a two-point conversion after the first score.)

“We had momentum in the first quarter, in fact during the first half, and we didn’t capitalize on it. We could have won the game going away, but we let the chances slip away.

“But we did get the momentum back and played well in the clutch,” Farrell noted. “I feel we need to work on keeping a high standard of consistent playing. We have to learn to play at any opportunities handed us,” he added.

“We need to develop the killer instinct,” Farrell concluded.

MAKING THE KILL
Defender Bob Sanders runs to the sidelines after a fourth-down sacking of the H-S quarterback.

Whatever you want, we've got

ARMY—NAVY STORE

Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.
Ph. 664-5118

170 N. Main
Nat E. Smith

The Davidsonian November 1, 1974

MOVE OVER

PIZZA * LASAGNE * RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINE
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
AL PARMIGIANA
and more

CHOICE WINES & BEERS

315-1449

1518 W. MOREHEAD