MOVING OUT

Protected by an awesome entourage, quarterback David Harper initiates one of the few Wildcat offensive plays. (Photo by Goodman)

Soccer Raises Record

By FRANK STIEFEL
Staff Writer

Last week could prove to be a change in the fortune of Davidson’s soccer team. At the start of the
week, the team’s record stood at 2-2, with Methodist traveling here for a Tuesday game. The game was never even
close as Joe Duncan started the Cats scoring in the opening minutes of the game. Davidson was never bothered after
that, rolling to an 8-0 win. Evidence of the unevenness of the match was the shots on goal total, which
showed Davidson with 64 shots to Methodist’s 3.

On the following Friday, Davidson traveled to UNC-Chapel Hill, in what could have been its biggest game of the year.
Going into the contest, the Tar Heels were ranked in the top 20 NCAA polls. The game started with both
teams showing a tightness that neither ever seemed able to shake. Early in the game, on an attempted fullback clear
to the goalie, the ball went wide of the Carolina goalie and trickled into the goal. The Cats suddenly found
themselves with a 1-0 lead on a gift goal. Then it was the Cats’ turn to be generous. Only minutes
later, as one of Davidson’s players attempted to kick the ball away during a Carolina rush, the ball went astray—into
the Cats’ goal. It was now a 1-1 game, with neither team having scored.

The rest of the first half was played around mid-field. The Cats couldn’t seem to muster much offensively, but they
held the Tar Heels in check. The game started getting tighter for Davidson. They were still having trouble generating an
offense, and the resulting pressure on the goal was becoming greater. Still, with five minutes to go, neither team had
managed to score. Then, a Carolina player was guilty of a blatant hands violation near his goal, and from then
on it was nothing but a barrage of shots on the Davidson goal. Goalie Charlie Slagle was outstanding. In the
closing minutes, he made two saves, and his long kicks had consistently gotten Davidson out of trouble. So, Davidson was
able to weather Chapel Hill’s attack, and come out with a hard-earned 1-1 tie.

Slagle had made 23 saves, while Davidson had managed only 9 shots. The entire defensive unit, especially Gordon Maner and
Gary Dancinger, played well. Up front, Tom Blackwood played superbly. Many times during the game Blackwood would be double-teamed and
still get by his defenders. He could easily make the All-American teams if he keeps up this type of play.

Last Tuesday, Davidson traveled to Laurinburg to play St. Andrews. Davidson couldn’t score until late in the first half, when
Bill Hawke scored on a fine pass from D. C. Augustine. The Cats were definitely in trouble as they were
having problems moving the ball. Finally, with several minutes to go, Jack Linard scored from in close on a clear
from Hawke. That’s how the game ended, and Davidson had to be thankful to get this win.

Bashfuls Ltd.
OCTOBER

Baba OF PHOTOGRAPHS firms. ~ $100.00 possible addressing mail for Full and part-time at home. Stamped self-addressed envelope to BLACO,
POX 315, C STATION #1, HILO, HAWAII.

The Davidsonian
October 4, 1974

Nine

VMI Annihilates Wildcats, Farrell Voices Displeasure

By CHUCK KENNON
Sports Editor

Enthusiasm for the “new” Davidson football program received a serious jolt Saturday as VMI crushed the Cats, 43-7. The mismatch
on the scoreboard indicated the extent...of the Keydets’ domination. Head coach Ed Farrell was strong in his opinion of the
Wildcat effort. “We played really poorly. I mean ‘we’, not just the players but the coaches as well. We all
contributed to this.” He added, “There are no excuses.” The Wildcats played in an offensive vacuum, and the defense was
forced to cope with a deadly Keydet rushing attack. The Wildcats ran 46 rushing plays for a total of 23
yards. VMI ran 59 times for 257 yards. Wildcat quarterback David Harper completed 8 of 20 passes for 110 yards
of Davidson’s 126 yards in the air. The Keydets passed for 129 yards. Much of the Wildcats’ trouble came from
Ronnie Moore, a wide receiver and punt returner. He ran back two punts for touchdowns, the first on a 52-yard
return and the final score of the game. Quarterback Tony Farry ran for two touchdowns and passed for one more.
Ronnie Norman, who rushed for 104 yards, ran for the remaining VMI score.

The only Wildcat touchdown was the result of one of the game’s 12 turnovers. Ed Womack intercepted a Farry pass
at the VMI 28 and returned it to the 10. Harper connected with Foney Mullins on the next play for
the score, with 1:38 remaining in the first half. Davidson crossed midfield only once after that. Farrell explained that steps
are being taken to solve the Wildcats’ dilemma. “We are doing some soul-searching to figure out just where our trouble
is. Obviously, we aren’t executing the fundamentals,” he pointed out.

The inability to contain VMI’s punt returns was cited by Farrell.

Farrell believes that the situation stems from a lack of “dedication to concentration” in practices. “We have to become more
mentally intense.

“We can’t afford to have to worry about if the center can get the ball to the quarterback in the
game. We have to master the fundamentals so we can relax in the game and play football. The physical effort
is great but a mental effort is needed,” Farrell reiterated. The Wildcats have this week off and play Wofford there
next Saturday. Farrell plans to start a full practice on the fundamentals.

“We still must work on better punt coverage. We covered all the alternatives in theory during practices, but live returns
have a high possibility of injury. We just assumed that everyone could cover his position. So no one knew where
the breakdowns could be,” he said. Farrell concluded that, “The players realize that what seemed to be a good hard
practice isn’t good and hard enough. It is not for lack of wanting to do it, but there may be
a lack of understanding how.”

BANTAM CHEF - Fri & Sat 10-11 Sun 12-1 SPECIAL 3 pc. Chicken Dinner w/Drink $2.00 (With This Coupon Only)

WORLD CHOICE WINES AND BEERS + PIZZA + TAKE OUT SERVICE

HAPPY HOUR — 7-9 Tues.-Fri. FAMOUS Kitchen PIZZA + LASAGNE + RAVIOLI VEAL SCALLOPINE + CHICKEN CACCIATORE + VEAL PARMIGIANA
+ STEAKS and SEAFOOD dishes CHOICE WINES & BEERS 375-7449 1318 W. MOREHEAD GAY 90'S ATMOSPHERE 596-0256 HWY 49 -
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

8:00 & 10:30 P.M. Friday, Oct. 4
