‘The Davidsonian April 26, 1974

Diamonders Sweep Spider Twinbill

By MARK WILENSKY
Sports Editor

As the baseball season draws to a close, the Wildcat nine has begun to jell as Davidson took a doubleheader from Southern Conference foe Richmond 5-0, 6-5, before dropping a Monday contest at Boone to Appalachian State, 7-1.

In the Alumni Weekend doubleheader, manager Tom Stevens sent his aces, Joel Tew and Ross Manire, to the mound against the Spiders. The pitchers have been sharp this season; Tew in particular. Entering the game without a victory in four decisions, Tew had all of his pitches working. His control was unusually precise.

WITH GORDON

Recently the sports staff of this newspaper supported the addition of scholarships in sports other than basketball and football. This position has been constant for several years. A reply by John Scandling, a senior at Davidson, suggested that we did not need to subject coaches and players to “the tyranny of the expectations implicit in scholarship support.” He claimed that “intercollegiate athletics are non-scholarship endeavors here for the benefit of those students who wish to participate.”

His rationale is far from accurate. Intramural sports are the non-scholarship endeavors which are here for the benefit of those who wish to participate in such sports. But intercollegiate athletics have an inherent element of competition which involves the expectations of winning. Most, if not all, the coaches involved in the sports in question would be more than willing to be subjected to Scandling’s tyranny (which is hardly a proper adjective). In my opinion, any coach who does not want these scholarships because he is afraid of some implicit set of expectations that will follow, should not be coaching intercollegiate athletics in the first place.

If the wrestling program is afraid of such a venture, then perhaps it should be shifted to a club sport. Then they would not have the fear of any expectations at all, as far as the college is concerned. But the club teams on this campus go out to win and have the expectation when they begin. Even the intramural teams do. (Just try to referee a game!)

Scandling admits that “championships are impossible as long as we remain in the Southern Conference.” But he is wrong here also. If there were a few, say two or three, scholarships in tennis and soccer, then these goals would be very reasonable. They would also be possible in track and baseball.

Now, if this institution continues to approach the philosophy of sports in the same way that it is presently doing, we will be lucky to win anything in a few years. Jeff Frank, despite having a miraculous recruiting year, will have his hands full trying to finish third or fourth in the conference. The same is gradually becoming true in soccer. In track and baseball, doom has already taken its apparent toll. As for wrestling, well, let Scandling condemn his own sport.I would be the first to admit that the number of "walk-ons" that compete intercollegiately for the Wildcats is phenomenal and a credit to the school. But Scandling goes even further. He asks himself the question: Can we get a sufficient number of walk-ons to compete? He answers yes. Give him an A+. Sure, you can get 11 guys to walk out on a football field, six on the tennis courts, nine on a baseball diamond, etc. But, quite un- (See SIDELINES, page 11)

- good, as he walked only one man in the seven-inning game. Richmond managed only four hits during the contest, and Tew allowed but two runners to reach second, both in the sixth. With the exception of this frame, the Spiders never threatened. In that inning, Tew started out strong by getting two outs on a fly to center fielder Mitch Stone and a strikeout. The Spiders then nicked the Cat righthander for singles and a walk, but Tew stranded the runners with an inning-ending strikeout. That was all for Richmond’s offense. In the top of the seventh, bouncers to third, short, and second ended the ballgame and preserved the shutout.

While Tew was shining on the mound, the Cats’ bats were hard at work. In the bottom of the first, Gary Pomeroy and George Weicker slapped two-out singles to left center. Catcher Mark Rodgman then staked the Cats to a two-run lead with a double, giving Tew all the runs he needed. 

The Cats didn’t threaten again. Todd singled to left with two outs in the fifth but was left stranded. The Cats played errorless ball throughout, supporting Tew in fine style. Manire got the Spiders out in the first despite a Pomeroy error. A liner to third baseman Dave Yearwood was turned into a double play, and the lefthander nipped a potential rally before it got started. The Cats put two on in the first, but Weicker flew to left and Rodgman popped to first, ending the threat. Manire was touched for a run on two extra-base hits, a triple following a double. A strikeout and a bouncer to test. He was unusually wild, walking six, but sharp enough to strike out the same number. The Spiders plated (See DIAMONDERS, page 12) three runs in the fifth on only one.

Joel Tew Fires Away

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
JEWELER
Jewelers of trusted reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N.C.

CARLO’S Jeans n' Things
At Depression Prices
122 S. Main St.
Mooresville, N.C.

LOOK AT THIS!
It's new. It's original. The hottest sticker on the market.
A beautiful 4 x 12 sticker in four colors and remember it's the first and original keep on streaking stickers. Send 50¢ to:
International Advertising
(Dealer inquiries Welcome)
STATE DISTRIBUTORS WANTED
Special Prices in 1,000 Lots
PHONE: 892-8054