Reston Urges Two Standards For Impeachment Articles
By ANDY LAMAS
Senior News Editor

"The second standard of impeachment can be defined as a serious dereliction from public duty," stated James Reston Jr., political novelist. Reston spoke about the prospects for impeaching President Nixon in a speech to an overcrowded Phi Hall on April 15.

"Everyone knows about the first standard of impeachment. A high government official can be removed from office on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors," claimed Reston.

Reston is the only man in the nation, as far as he knows, who is calling for an omnibus article—like his second standard—to be included in the impeachment articles. Reston remarked that the only way we can deal with the men involved in Watergate is to apply the second standard of impeachment. "How else can we deal with a pattern of corruption and political crime such as this?" asks Reston.

Since the Watergate affair was exposed, Reston has warned the American public to keep in mind all of the important information which has surfaced as a result of the various investigations. "We all tend to kick out of our intellectual circuits a lot of information that we should continue to consider. This has happened because our circuits have been overcrowded with information by the press," explained Reston.

Reston spoke briefly about the impoundment of funds and Cambodia bombing, but most of his attack centered around the Watergate affair. "From the June 20th tape, there is no doubt that the cover-up was in motion immediately after the break-in occurred," claimed Reston. "What Nixon puts into philosophy, it seems Liddy and Hunt put into practice."

Reston raised objections to Nixon's insinuations on March 21 about the legality of raising hush money. "Just think of all the tapes that the President has failed to turn over and, especially, about that March 21 tape with its 18½ minute gap. This is out and out withholding of evidence."

The questions raised concerning Nixon's taxes is another issue which can be applied to the first standard of impeachment.

Buckley Chides Nixon, China’s Tactics
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

William F. Buckley Jr. articulated the ideal of freedom and the necessity of its preservation, following a raving round of applause by a near-capacity crowd in Love Auditorium Wednesday night. Using his eloquent style and snide comments to the fullest extent, Buckley explained his concern for the growing tendency in America to retreat from the moral opposition that it should have toward the forces that threaten the safety of this country, i.e., communism.

Making no effort to lecture on the domestic issues concerning the federal government in Washington, Buckley may have disappointed many observers who came to hear one of the leading conservative’s views regarding the crises which this country faces. But the thrust of Buckley's talk was as American as apple pie and baseball. He spoke as a conservative and came across very well in that respect.

Many people were not overly enthused with the words which they heard Wednesday night. But then, this is not a completely conservative campus. To some people, Buckley sounded like a war hawk, ready to lead the charge into the battle against the communists. He criticized President Richard Nixon for his attitude toward many of his undertakings while in office. Basically, he inferred that Nixon infuses overtones of moral righteousness in his efforts, including the increasingly friendly relations with the People’s Republic of China (PRC). He then made reference to Nixon’s comparison of the American and Communist Revolutions. Buckley expressed the opinion that the former was fought to permit freedom and the latter, while possibly being fought for this purpose, ended with the extinguishing of freedom.

A question which followed during a brief discussion period linked the underprivileged status of the masses in the PRC to the plight of the poor and minority people in America, asking forBuckley's opinion on the idea. He replied to the effect that, if you mean the rich are freer than the poor, I don't deny that. But the poor in the United States are much better off than the Chinese masses. He then continued by citing many figures which evidenced a decline in the number of poor people in America, saying that only seven percent of Americans are now poor. Freedom was the prevailing theme of his talk, though. He waved the flag well and provided listeners with many interesting quotations as he meticulously moved through a well-prepared speech. Buckley's speech could be taken as a lash at the anti-war movements on college campuses in the mid to late sixties. He warned that, in dealing with the Communists, it is imperative that we do not forget the moral distinctions between the two systems. He made it clear that we could deal with them without praising them and condoning their form of government. This implies a position which would oppose the concern of students in the sixties over the war in Southeast Asia, which many felt was unwarranted. Buckley continually emphasized the moral obligation of Americans to keep the Communists in check. Buckley hovered over the audience with his broad knowledge of politics and literature. His speech and discussion afterwards were highlighted by his ability to lead himself to a point which would find a favorable position with most of the audience. This allowed him to move on without fully dealing with the questions presented. Buckley also entertained the audience with many humorous remarks intermingled with his quotations from various persons.

"All of the 'Is he a crook?' questions apply to the first standard of impeachment," remarked Reston. Reston favors inclusion of the second standard because he is concerned about the "manipulative effects of the law." He does not want the President's guilt or innocence to be determined on small technical points of law. "The first standard must continue to be the main focus. I think it will be sufficient to impeach Richard Nixon. However, we should still consider the second standard. We must not let the impeachment charges be boiled down to a few technical crimes. That's why a general statement, like the second standard, must be attached to the impeachment articles also," he stated. Reston also addressed himself to the President's responsibility for the actions of his subordinates. "Even Nixon said on April 30, that 'the men at the top must bear the responsibility;' that's sufficient for me." Reston believes that the Watergate affair was the final outcome of the July 1970 Houston Plan. This was a plan submitted to Nixon by his aide Charles Houston. It called for unlimited powers for intelligence gathering in the US. "It was a set of principles which would constitute, quite frankly, a violation of the first amendment."

Davidsonian Staff
Managing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, MARK DEATON, CHARLIE SHEPHERD, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Sports Editor: MARK WILENSKY
Senior News Editors: TOM AINSWORTH, TOM BRUCE, JOE EARLE, ANDY LAMAS, RICHARD ROMEYN
Photography Editor: PETE GOODMAN
Editorial Consultant: ERIC WALKER
Contributors this week: Tracy Charles, Woody Connette, Wayne Gulledge, Nancy Moncure, Charlie Slagle, and Paul Welch
Operations Manager: BILL ELLETT
News Editors: STEVE BELL, HARRIETT HODGES, FRANCIS TOWNSEND, LEX VEAZEY
Associate Editors: ALAN BLAKLEY, DOUG BROWN, STEVE CANTERBURY, TODD EADES, MARY HOBBIE, GUS SUCCOP, MARY TURNER, MILES WARD
Assistant Managing Editors: MATTHEW COVINGTON, CHARLES KENNON, LARRY MIMMS
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Assistant Business Manager: DAVID TRADER
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Cartoonists: STEVE BALKCOM, PAUL MITCHELL
Typist: PATTI SHANKWEILER
John Cook, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVID-