na o ~~ JUMP FOR JOY Eppa Rixey rises above Marvin Lively’s attempted block. Basketball practice has been conducted for
more than a week. Vets Swell Ranks Of Basketball Cats By GLENN BALLARD Asst. Managing Editor Pre-season basketball is in
full swing at Davidson College as new head coach Bo Brickels prepares a team returning four of five starters to
meet a rugged schedule which includes the top three ranked teams in the nation last year. Anticipation on the team
has begun to grow for what the coaching staff believes will be a successful season for the experienced Wildcats. Comparing
this year’s team with last year, coach Brickels commented that they could be “fifteen points better.” Seven veteran players are
back this year providing a solid base on which the team can stand. Brickels is also pleased with the incoming
freshman group, saying that “they have been a pleasant surprise.” Included in the group of returning veteran players is Steve
Gacaire, who started periodically in his sophomore and junior years, but missed last year with an ankle injury. Freshmen additions
include Mark Sumwalt and Kevin Doherty, both of whom were recruited, and Brian Coffey who has reportedly been surprisingly impressive.
When asked to comment on the schedule this year, Brickels stated that, “Our schedule has got to be one of
the ten toughest in the country. I don’t know of anybody in the country who plays last year’s one, two,
and three ranked teams in nineteen days.” However, Brickels is not dismayed with the challenge.

School Spirit Lives Pending Reversal To the Editor: This is an open, unabashed, yes, even impassioned plea to all of
us associated with Davidson College. A plan for what? We are bombarded daily with exhortations to buy, believe, contribute, support,
etc., etc. So what else is new? My cause is the Davidson Wildcat football team. This is not my only
cause or the most important one. Why not Davidson soccer? Rugby? Club football? IMAC flickerball? Sure, those, too. In fact,
my plea applies to these and all pursuits—athletic and otherwise—which are college-sponsored or college-connected. Okay, Liston, get on with it.
Now that you’ve mounted your soap box what are you going to say? Simply this—presumably the question is no longer
whether intercollegiate football at Davidson, but what kind. We can feel, “Oh well this is up to Coach Farrell and
his boys and the rah-rah 50’s types who dig this pigskin stuff. If the team wins, we’ll start to support
them; but, after all, we are a basketball school. Ho-hum.” But what if we reversed things? What if we felt
our own responsibility to the Cats and coaches and said, “If all of us can rally around this team, let
them know we care, and show our support for them; then, they will want to win.” And if they want
to win and do everything they can to win, they probably will win. And, if not, all of us can
feel good anyway at having done our best. What a wonderful thing it would be if this football team could
be a catalyst in generating some good old-fashioned school spirit at Davidson. It won’t just happen, but we can make
it happen—together—which, after all, is what the word ‘community’ is all about, isn’t it? Do we really care? Paul Liston
Davidson College

As Balanced By BILL LLOYD Staff Writer Following a 49-7 loss to Lenoir Rhyne Saturday night in Hickory, Wildcat head
coach Ed Farrell still had some reason to smile. “I think that we are finally doing some of the things
that we will have to do to become a respectable football team,” said Farrell. Statistics, though awesome, did not explain
the true nature of the game, as was pointed out by Farrell. “Lenoir Rhyne capitalized on about five big plays
and penalties. They seldom sustained a long drive,” stated Farrell.the schedule, but sees it as "an unbelievable opportunity. It’s the
best possible schedule we can have to prepare us to do what we plan on doing, and that’s winning the
Southern Conference Championship and playing in the N.C.A.A. Tournament." Brickels sees post-season play as not only desirable but necessary, because
it would allow Davidson to attract the kind of athletes it needs to continue to be competitive.

During the first week of Nida Wael Vee t5 hols Gur Chai As An Ordained Minister And Have The Rank
Of 3. Enjoy reduced rates from some modes of transportation, some theaters, stores, hotels, etc. Seek draft exemption as one
of our working missionaries. We will tell you how. Enclose 2. free will donation for the Minister's ordination is recognized
in all 50 states and most foreign countries, FREE LIFE CHURCH-BOX 4038, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33023.

In past games this season Lenoir Rhyne had been utilizing one halfback Scott Crawford and fullback McWhirter rushing outside. "For
the majority of the first half we had their original offensive well defensed, but they shifted to the inside and
we never fully adjusted," explained Farrell.

Offensively, Farrell was a little more enthusiastic. "We have been trying to build a more balanced rushing and passing attack.
Though the stats showed only 64 yards rushing, in practice the emphasis has been primarily on the conditioning program." Brickels
said, "Right now we feel we've got the edge on most everybody in the country as far as conditioning is
concerned."

How long Davidson can maintain that edge remains to be seen, but Brickels plans not to waste any time in
the six weeks of pre-season practice. He said that the team "can’t wait for anything to happen. We can’t let
a day go by when we don’t think we’re improving." At the moment, Brickels is convinced that the team is
making good progress.

Cats Lose Game With Errors Offense Sought

"Actually we balanced out our offensive attack to about 160 yards rushing and 181 yards passing. This balance is what
we have been working on all season." Farrell was also pleased with the individual performances of Junior halfback Steve Stec
and Senior quarterback David Harper. Harper passed for 117 yards and Stec rushed for 88 yards. Davidson’s lone touchdown came
on a 10-yard pass from Harper to Senior receiver Gary Pomeroy in the fourth quarter. Soccer-football player Joe Duncan converted
for the extra point.

Farrell saw no motivational problems with the Wildcat squad Saturday night. "We were really up for Lenoir Rhyne and getting
beat like that has quite a deflating effect," he declared. Farrell hopes that the Cats will be able to bounce
back Saturday against Hampden-Sydney for homecoming. Hampden-Sydney comes into this week’s game with a 5-1 record and the best small
college defense in the country. Hopefully, some of the improvement seen by Farrell last Saturday night will materialize and result
in a Wildcat victory Saturday afternoon.
