Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Six March 15, 1974 The Davidsonian

MODEL III policies in regard to the awarding of financial aid and the implementation of those policies.

2. Basic Responsibility
The President is directly responsible to the Trustees for the formulation and implementation of admissions policies, subject to the provisions
herein for Faculty determination of the academic qualifications to be applied in the admission of students. In discharge of this
responsibility, he is empowered to delegate to other administrative officers and Faculty members specific powers and duties.

3. Advisers Council for Admissions and Financial Aid
a. Composition
The Advisory Council for Admissions and Financial Aid consists of six teaching members of the Faculty, three appointed by the
President and three chosen by the Faculty, pursuant to its By-Laws, and two students designated in such manner as their
By-Laws provide.

b. Function
The Council is advisory to the President and his delegated administrative officers in this area of responsibility. At least three
times each academic year, in the Fall, Winter, and Spring at times set by the President, the Council reports and
advises with respect to ongoing operations, programs, problems, and plans under consideration in this area. Prior to submission by the
President to the Trustees of any major proposal in respect of admissions matters, the President shall inform the Council of
its substance in time to permit its consideration by the Council. By majority vote of the Council, a report opposing
any aspect of the proposal, with a succinct statement of supporting reasons, shall accompany the proposal when submitted to the
Trustees. Any such report shall reflect the vote by which it was adopted. The President may decline to submit to
the Council any such proposal which in his judgment would violate personal or institutional confidence, or constitute an unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy, or jeopardize in a substantial way a fundamental institutional interest. Upon submission of any such proposal to
the Trustees, the President shall indicate whether or not it has been earlier submitted to the Council.

Article VI — Library
The President is directly responsible to the Trustees for the formulation of policies for the operation and development of the
library and for their implementation, including the allotment of budgeted funds to particular departments and other units, subject to the
provisions herein for the general responsibility of the Faculty for the planning and guidance of the selection and use of
library materials. In the discharge of this responsibility, the President is empowered to delegate to other administrative officers specific powers
and duties.

Article VII — Intercollegiate Athletics
1. Basic Responsibility
The President is directly responsible to the Trustees for the orderly conduct of the intercollegiate athletic programs of the College.
He has the powers necessary to discharge this responsibility, including the powers: 1) to represent the College in its relations
with national and regional intercollegiate athletic conferences and associations; 2) to employ, subject to Trustee approval, a Director of Athletics,
coaches, and other personnel necessary to the conduct of the established program; 3) to supervise the organization and conduct of
the intercollegiate athletic programs; 4) to provide means of liaison and consultation between officers and staff members of the Athletic
Department and the Faculty and Administration as they relate to the intercollegiate athletic programs; 5) to supervise administration of the
fiscal affairs of the intercollegiate athletic programs within the general fiscal policies of the College; and 6) to propose policies
and programs for Trustee approval and to implement them. In the discharge of this responsibility, the President is empowered to
delegate to other administrative officers specific powers and duties.

2. Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics
a. Composition
The Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics consists of the Vice-President for Academic Affairs, the Vice-President for Finance and Development, the
Dean of Students, the Director of Athletics, and three teaching members of the Faculty and three students designated in such
manner as their respective By-Laws provide.

b. Function
The Council is advisory to the President in this area of responsibility. At least three times each academic year, in
the Fall, Winter, and Spring, the Council meets to discuss ongoing operations, programs, problems, and plans under consideration in this
area.

---Winter and Spring at times set by the President, the Council meets with the President or his delegated administrative officer
to receive reports, and to advise with respect to ongoing operations, programs, problems, and plans under consideration in this area.
Prior to the submission of any major proposal involving intercollegiate athletic policy to the Trustees, the President shall inform the
Council of its substance in time to permit its consideration by the Council. By majority vote of the Council, a
report opposing any substantial aspect of the proposal, with a succinct statement of supporting reasons, shall accompany the proposal when
submitted to the Trustees. Any such report shall reflect the vote by which it was adopted. The President may decline
to submit to the Council any such proposal when in his judgment to do so would violate a personal or
institutional confidence, or constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, or jeopardize in a substantial way a fundamental institutional interest.
Upon submission of any such proposal to the Trustees, the President shall indicate whether or not it has been earlier
submitted to the Council.

Article VIII
Student Conduct

(1) Definition. ‘Student Conduct’ is defined herein to include both:
a) conduct in the use of physical facilities of the College, and
b) conduct in the larger dimensions of personal behavior.

(2) Responsibility. Responsibility for the main- conduct in both areas is

(3) Standards of Conduct.
a) Physical facility use. The President may promulgate such regulations for the use of College physical facilities, equipment, and parking
on campus as he considers appropriate.
b) In the larger dimensions of personal behavior. The standards of conduct in the larger dimensions of personal behavior are
those expressed as general expectations in the Code of Responsibility of 1968, as amended. (Preamble, Articles I, II, IV, and
V.)

(4) Procedures and Sanctions to Promote Compliance.
a) Regulations on facilities use. It is the responsibility of the several Residence Hall Managers to encourage compliance with College
Regulations pertaining to physical facilities use. In case of known violations, the Manager first attempts to rectify and prevent recurrence
by counseling. If this is ineffective, the Manager has the responsibility to file a formal complaint under the Code of
Disciplinary Procedure of 1971 for the possible imposition of sanctions provided therein.
b) Traffic and parking regulations. The President may promulgate a summary procedure for the disposition of violations of traffic and
parking regulations. If he does not, violations are determined and sanctions imposed under the Code of Disciplinary Procedure of 1971.
c) Code of Responsibility. Violations of the Code of Responsibility are determined and sanctions imposed only in accordance with the
provisions of the Code of Disciplinary Procedure of 1971.

(5) Student Conduct Council.
a) Composition. The Student Conduct Council consists of the Dean of Students; the Coordinator of Student Activities; eight faculty divisional
and at-large members; the President and Vice President of the Student Government Association; the Presidents of the four Student classes;
and two upperclass students who are not members of the Student Senate, elected at-large by the Student Body. The Dean
of Students is Chairman of the Council.
b) Function. The Council is advisory to the President in matters of policy relating to student conduct and disciplinary procedures.
By majority vote of the Council, it may amend substantive provisions of the Code of Responsibility; provided, however, that if
the President considers any such amendment to be in contravention of Trustee policy, he may suspend the operation of the
amendment pending review by the Trustees. If the President does not act to suspend its operation within ten days following
notice to him of the adoption of an amendment by the Council, it shall become operative immediately upon expiration of
the period. If the President does act to suspend its operation, he shall present the proposed amendment to the Trustees
for action within thirty days after receipt by the Secretary of the Trustees of notice of the President's action. If
the Trustees do not act within thirty days following receipt of such notice, the amendment shall become operative upon expiration
of such period. If the Trustees approve the amendment, it becomes operative immediately.
