February 1, 1974

The Davidsonian

Hoop Tourney Ushers C.A. and Y.B. Return

CAPTAIN AMERICA and BUCKY

Hello, C.A. and Y.B. have returned just in time to close out the regulation IMAC B-Ball season and talk about tourney prospects.

In League A there were four undefeated teams led by pre-season poll pick, the Hoboken Snarks. With Juan Sanchez, Randy Wagner, Bobby “Weasel” Evans, Craig “Destructo” Crosswhite, and the Big E, the Snarks are the class of IMAC as their 6-0 record would indicate. Wherever in the hell Hoboken is, they should be '74 IMAC champs.

Also undefeated for the regular season were the aptly named Old Men. The “Geezers” (our own little pet name) managed to chug past their opposition with experience, steady play, and referees who were intimidated by the professors on the team. Chip (the invisible man) Stone and Jimmy “The Greek” Larranaga led the Goldie Oldies while the relatively young Frank “Foulball” Folger added some hustle and speed. Foulball also is the IMAC boxing champ with his one-punch TKO over Will McLean in one of the Old Men - Brew contests.

The third undefeated team was the dark horse Cleveland Indians who squeaked their way to a 6-0 slate. Three of their victories were by a total of 5 points. Because of the uncertainty of the mental state of the starting five and newcomers Tim “traitor” Peck and Virgil “mitey mite” Demery, the Indians are never a team to predict. Who knows what they will do from day to day? Mark Rodgeman never knows.

The last undefeated team was a sad story. Powerful SAE No. 1, loaded with great talent in Peyton Prospere, Tim Spencer, Jud Cuttino, Eldon Bashar, and John Yeoman, cruised through their 6-0 season. But Prospere has decided to leave school, so the E’s are not the great team they can be anymore. They are still one of the better teams in IMAC, however.

Other good teams in the tourney are the always tough Ghetto, led by Charles “Bomber” Bethea, Derry Harper, and Mike “Playground” Harding; the infamous SPE’s with two-time rag recipient John “Duke” Sims; and the team of no names - the Queen and 12 Very Nice Guys led by orange jumping Jack Berrie and the human beach ball who is Tankers.

Soak UNC-A Webbed By Richmond

By ANN BODE
Staff Writer

Davidson swimmers won one and lost one in their meets last week. On Tuesday they hosted UNC at Asheville and won by a score of 65-47. Freshman Ted Mumby was high point man with two first places in the diving competition. John Scholer won the 200 freestyle event with a time of 1:59.6, the first time he has gone under two minutes for the event. John McArthur took second place in that race. In two other races Davidson totally dominated, taking both first and second places: 50-yard free - first place Eliasson (24.5), second place Alford; and 220-yard back - first place Doscher (2:25.6), second place Susan Reid.

On Saturday, Davidson lost to a much stronger University of Richmond team by a score of 64-46. Team captain Scholer broke the school record in the 1000-yard free with a time of 10:45. Scholer just missed placing first in the 500-yard freestyle. He lost by two-tenths of a second. John McArthur was high scorer in this meet for Davidson. He placed first in the 50-yard free with a time of 23.5 and did his best time, placing second in the 100-yard free with a time of 52.0.52.4. The only other first place for Davidson was Doscher in the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 2:18.9. Coach Tom Stevens was pleased with the times turned in by Scholer, McArthur, Owens, Doscher, and Reid. He is trying to get Reid qualified for the Women's Collegiate National Swimming Championships. On Wednesday, the team travels to Augusta for their second away meet of the season. The next home meet will be next Wed., Feb. 6 when Davidson hosts Emory at 1:30 p.m. Following the meet, at 4, there will be a Drownproofing Clinic run by the Emory team. All Davidson students, working in Mooresville making sweaters. The Delts win this year’s “Stack the standings” award with approximately 8 teams in both leagues. PDT No. 3 is 5-0. With only five men each, 3 of whom averaged 8 points a game, these studs have done an exceptional job and deserve a big hand. SAE is runner-up with possibly the worst IMAC team ever to be seen in Johnston Gym. Appropriately named the Goneds, this team does belong in the lower extremities of something. Coach of the year goes to Snow White of the 7 dwarfs. Although the team lacks talent (no one over 5'11’’), they have a hell of a time during timeouts and at halftime, with the coach. Since we have to fill up a page and this is supposed to be an intramural column, our only news of the week concerns a tragedy involving the SPE’s. Something involving some type of “early rush,” we believe he said. Oh well, who cares. May you always match, and may Monte Carlo turn itself over. MEN! — WOMEN! JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information. SEAFAX, Dept. 8-S P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362. PRESIDENT and Country go together like your Banking needs and our friendly service. Everyone DANCES to the tune you call when you come to PIEDMONT BANK. Once you have tried us you'll say CHA or something equally happy. You'll like the service you get here, and you'll go out feeling like dancing the CHA CHA! (Staff Photo by Goodman) BLOCK THAT SHOT IMAC action is heating up as the basketball tournament begins. The Hoboken Snarks are favored to win. Sherrill’s Jewelry Watch & Jewelry Repair Davidson, N.C. HATTIE'S HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri. Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30 IMPORTED BEER Now Serving The “Hattie” PLUS $9,800 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR And that’s only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial flying career or impressive executive credentials to go with the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and $9,800 to $16,000. Benefits including 30 days paid vacation annually, free worldwide air travel, medical care, and much more. If you're between 20½ and 26½, a senior or graduate student, United States Air Force TSgt. Roger Church 332-3046 This year's Midwinter's Treat SLAUGHTERHOUSE-FIVE Friday 11:25.7, but was beaten by a faculty, and staff are invited 3:30 and 8 p.m. Richmond swimmer who and encouraged to attend and broke the pool records. Participants Love Auditorium Admission $1.00 Door Prize at each showing.