Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Teg December 18, 7A She Basinsaatn Slater Seeks Right To Sell Beer

"Been over there, operation have not been deter- mined. If someone is intoxicated, we'll shut him off," said Scott. "If
someone is obviously stumbling around and can't speak coherently, we'll shut him off. It’s not possible to make money by
selling beer to students. It costs less to get a beer license at Slater than it does to get one
at the Union. It will be the same with the beer sale; there won’t be enough volume," said Smith.

Both Scott and Smith have some concern over the wisdom of students with intoxicating beverages. Smith said, "I don't expect
anyone to abuse the privilege, but I know someone will." He is in favor of not opening the sale of
beer until 5 p.m. in the day; however, the actual hours of operation have not been determined.

"We have had no trouble here at Miaka. We do want it to be a place where students can come
and sit around and talk to one another, and to faculty members. It will add significantly to the Union Board,"
said Smith. "I'm anxious to have a place where students can come and sit around and talk to one another,
and to faculty members."

The actual procurement of a beer license from the ABC Board will not come until the Union is completed because
the license people have to see the facility before a license can be granted. Smith foresees no difficulty here, the
only question being when the Union will be ready. They say late spring or early September. I just don't know,"
said Scott.

Ron Scott, director of Slater Food Services at Davidson, like everyone else, has to wait for the necessary building and
renovation of the old library into the new Union to take place.

Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Contributors this week: Bill Barnes, Bill Ellett, Sabra Faires, Cliff Gardner, Mark Gergen.

By NANCY NORTHCOTT, Staff Writer

Davidson students who wish to go abroad to study for a year are no longer limited to Europe. The alternative
Junior Year Abroad program permits students to...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.different. Africa was a natural place for me to go.
I really felt the urge to go there,” said senior Reginald Harding, who went to Ghana on the alternative JYA
program last year. Harding did a paper on the political development of Ghana. He said that he got more out
of it by doing it in Ghana than he would have by doing it here.

According to head of the International Studies Francis Ghigo, the college also had plans for a JYA program in Baroda,
India at one time. The Pakistani intervention, however, strained the relations between India and the United States. While nothing was
ever said officially, Harding commented that he had to be more resourceful in a program like that than, say, in
Marburg. “You shouldn't go with any preconceived notions,” Harding said. He stressed that the environment is totally different from the
western countries. Harding lost 15 pounds from the food differences. He said that the relationships of the people to each
other are quite different. English is the official language, but Harding feels that it is a good idea to pick
up a language. He feels that this would make it a little easier to do the work there. “I was
satisfied with the experience. I got about all that you could out of it,” he commented.

The JYA program extends to France, Spain, Germany, and Asia. Ghigo said that the “single-term abroad” programs, such as the
St. Anne’s program, are becoming more popular. The Classics Abroad term is another popular one-term program. “I don’t think I
would have come to JYA. I just wouldn't be up for studying over there that long. I was more interested
in travel,” said senior John Randolph, who went to England on the St. Anne’s program last summer. Randolph was more
interested in getting to know the people.

Courses taken abroad receive normal transfer credit at Davidson except in one instance. This is when the course is optional
and is taught by a full professor and the student agree on the grade. (See JYA; Page 16)

Davidsonian Staff:
Executive Editor: MARK DEATON
Operations Manager: BILL ELLETT
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Managing Editors: LARRY MIMMS, MATTHEW COVINGTON, DAVID TRADER
Assistant Managing Editors: MARK WILENSKY, STEVE JOHNSON
Assistant Business Manager: GREG DUNN
Contributing Editors: JOE DUNCAN, CHUCK KENNON, GLENN BALLARD
Sports Editor: VINCE RABIL
Assistant Sports Editor: CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Senior News Editors: BRUCE CORSER, ANDY LAMAS, RICKY BE
Editorial Consultants: ERIC WALKER, RICHARD ROMEYN
Associate Editors: JEFF NEIKIRK, CHUCK HARMON, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Photography Editor: JOE MCMILLAN
Cartoonists: LEON VENABLE, THOM NICOLL, KEVIN BRODE
Typist: CAMILLE CATHEY

Pete Goodman, Roger Grange, Jackson, David Kitchin, Bill Lloyd, Mark Menchell, Morrow, Nancy Northcott, Anne, Mark Scandling, Charlie Slagle, and
Ben.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN.
