College Clarifies Position On Contraceptive Counseling

By VAN WILLIAMSON, Staff Writer

Davidson College issued a statement regarding physician-patient relationships at the college infirmary last week. One major part of this statement was to clarify the college’s position on women’s health care and contraceptive counseling.

Dr. Richard Kerecman, one of three doctors on call at the infirmary, agrees with the college’s position. He stated that these are decisions “for the girls to make” and should be regarded as private decisions between patient and physician.

However, elements of time, space, and equipment limit the services the infirmary is able to provide in this area. Besides the lack of proper equipment for pelvic examinations, the infirmary’s busy time schedule makes it difficult to schedule these, although Dr. Frank Donatelli will do pelvic exams at the infirmary by appointment. “Preventive medicine and routine physical examinations are good, but due to the time element, it’s difficult to provide these services here, not only for coeds, but also physicals for male students,” said Kerecman.

Due to these problems, Doctors Jerome Howard, Kerecman, and Donatelli have strongly suggested that students seeking other medical attention contact them through their regular offices.

Karl Goodhouse, a sophomore who has done extensive research on human sexuality and organized the recent sexuality symposium on campus, sympathizes with the infirmary’s position but feels more work and study are needed in this area. “We should really give the infirmary credit; they’re making do with what they have, which isn’t much. I agree that the argument that we’re not a general hospital is a good one, but we do need some sort of preventive medicine. It’s about time for people to sit down and think about expanding health programs—we’re behind the times,” Goodhouse continued.

“I would like to see a campus resource center providing information on different programs and centers—not just on human sexuality, but also drugs, guidance, and other issues that might arise—to tell students about every available service to take care of needs that the college doesn’t take care of.”

Both Goodhouse and Assistant Dean of Students Diane Stone are aware of nearby clinics that do provide women’s health services and contraceptive counseling. The Huntersville Family Planning Clinic, located behind Huntersville Hospital on Highway 115, offers free women’s health services and contraceptive counseling to anyone 18 or older. Operating Thursdays from 1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m., their services include an examination, a 30-minute class on sexuality and contraceptive education, and contraception information. Appointments may be made at 875-2523. Stone is enthusiastic about this program. “It’s great because of the time element—that’s what it’s there for, and it’s relatively close.”

Another clinic, the Mooresville Women’s Clinic, offers extensive private health services, although these...° A program highly praised by both Goodhouse and Stone is Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte. Located at contraceptive services, pregnancy testing, counseling, and early (first trimester) abortions. Fees are quite reasonable, and can be adjusted for individual situations. In- and/or appointments can be obtained by calling 377-0841. This program is extremely comprehensive, confidential, personable, and financially reasonable, according to Goodhouse. “I think it’s the best program around for women’s health and contraceptive counseling,” he said.

According to Goodhouse, the concern shown by the college and infirmary on the subject of women’s health care and contraceptive services is very encouraging.

Security Needs Force Watts Dorm Lock-Up
By CHUCK KENNON

As a result of several incidents of outsiders wandering into women’s rooms last year, a study was made of security systems in use at Duke University and Chapel Hill. “There was no serious problem, but some form of security was deemed necessary,” Stone said. Chapel Hill uses a more expensive time-lock alarm system. Stone stated that the lock and a front door were ordered for Watts during the summer, and that their arrival was expected before the start of school. 

“There is still no security,” Stone declared, “with the back door unlocked and the windows uncovered.” Meetze said that the doors would be locked soon.

To Examine Centrex

A phone with a long cord was recorded. In the computation of the questionnaires, it was found that there are approximately 185 dorm rooms with phones while approximately 355 rooms do not have phones. There are long cords on 78 of the phones. There are approximately 15 table phones and approximately 170 wall phones. When asked if the student received exactly the phone type, phone color, and correct attachments ordered, 25 percent of the students replied negatively. Many students revealed that when they tried to get their original order installed after the wrong phone was installed, they were told that they would have to pay reinstallation charges.

When asked to rate the service thus far in dealings with Southern Bell, 20 percent of the students with phones answered poor, 27 percent answered fair, 44 percent answered good, and nine percent answered excellent. The telephone questionnaire also asked both roommates, regardless of whether or not their room had a phone, if they favor a voluntary Centrex telephone system. The Centrex system looks like the present phone system in outward appearance. However, under the Centrex system, Southern Bell would assess the college for the entire system, and the college thus would become the billing agency for the telephone service. Southern Bell still would bill the student for any long-distance calls made. Students would not have to worry about installation since phones would remain installed in the dorm rooms all year and just would be switched on if phone service is desired. There probably also would be some monetary savings to the Davidson student under the Centrex system as opposed to the present installation and billing system. In response to the voluntary Centrex system, where the student could decide if he or she wants phone service, an overwhelming 98 percent of the students answered yes. In calls made to Winthrop, representatives from these schools spoke quite favorably of the Centrex system. In response to the last question on the telephone survey which asked for any further comments, students provided various feedback. 

(See CENTREX, page 16)