MIXING IT UP

Wimest Se Oe Oe oe oe weeper scat ‘er Pet (eer ¢ Tym etsePEme ws Twas Petarttemt hetem-t om 2
"wetlcecs acer csowener Food Stamps Attract Crowd eee LD Rowers lace News Edmar er SR mem ert a nw me
levis Ham i tk ; ww Lt a at, Wn 5) La@wrmmere expressed great pleasure with the turnout which resumes
for sta ™ caleec the gees public campaign we’ve had around here in a long time. The time and place
of the Farmers.

BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Sports Editor:
MARK WILENSKY

Senior News Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
TOM BRUCE
JOE EARLE
ANDY LAMAS
RICHARD ROMEYN

Photography Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Editorial Consultant:
ERIC WALKER

Blood Sought

During the clinic, participants were over private. Spring Buc members bring stack me were questions about their financial situation given
SS? from 1: an 2s. From what documents w omg w *Ctoramg ~ Cam Winer De their meeting with the
county. 4 2ughar 060 Arrome there 0 {RM will allow wy Dette President Samuel R. Spencer Jr urged everyone to
participate in this program meeting (S"CT benefits our entire college community. The goal.

BILLELLETT
MATTHEW COVINGTON

News Editors:
CHARLES KENNON
STEVE BELL
LARRY MIMMS
LEX VEAZEY

Assistant Business Manager:
Associate Editors:
DAVID TRADER
ALAN BLAKLEY

Circulation:
DOUG BROWN
RICKY BELL
STEVE CANTERBURY
JEFF NEIKIRK
TODD EADES

Cartoonists:
MARY HOBBIE
STEVE BALKCOM
GUS SUCCOP
PAUL MITCHELL
MARY TURNER

Typist:
MILES WARD
PATTI SHANKWEILER

Contributors this week:
Ann Bode, Pete Celemtano, Tracy Charles, Woody Commerte, Jim Cook, Charlie Slagle.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Address all correspondence to THE DAVID-

You cannot be assigned a room until you have a roommate, she elaborated. Nicholls directed that lottery numbers can be
used only by those who drew them. “They are not negotiable. Both roommates may draw a number and use the
best one for purposes of getting a room, then the unused number may not be traded to someone else. If
a student isn’t on campus for the lottery, a friend may reserve the room,” Nicholls said.Here is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Housing shortage may not be as bad as anticipated, according to Nicholls. Workers are currently in the basement of Richardson
dormitory. These rooms will be ready in the fall and will house two students apiece. They will be well-built, with
six-inch concrete block walls so that the boys can attach things to them. They will also have vinyl floors and
acoustical ceilings. “These rooms are going to be for freshmen since we are taking in fewer freshmen men. All of
Sentelle will be occupied by upperclassmen next year," Nicholls said.

Additional housing spaces: Plant Grover Meetze has assured me that the bookstore will be moved out and the spaces converted
to rooms by September. “I am not assigning these rooms now because I don't want students to come here in
the fall and not have a room because work isn’t finished.” Nicholls added that Meetze had indicated to her that
12 rooms will be made from the bookstore. These rooms will be doubles, housing 24 students total. Nicholls was optimistic
about housing for the fall. “This year it really looks better than last year. Getting the basement of Richardson and
the bookstore area will help. We have never had any real trouble before, and I don't think we will now,”
she predicted.

Vereen Bell judge: On Tuesday, April 2, Fred Chappell awarded Senior Bob Bolick first prize in that competition for his
poem “Eden Songs.” Second prize went to senior Jack Hobbs for his short story “The Chicken and Fish Stranger.” Junior
Eric Walker received honorable mention.

Nicholls Announces Lottery For Next Year’s Housing: Dean of the Honors Center Earl R. MacCormac announced this week that next
year, Professors Ralph Gable and Gil Holland will be added to the staff of the Honors Center. Gable will be
responsible vis-a-vis the Honors Center for aid in the supervision of the Rocky River Research Project. His duties will also
include a tutorial in chemistry which will be offered for the first time next year. Holland has been contracted to
conduct a seminar. The Honors Center has also scheduled for next year an interdisciplinary course in Research Methods to be
taught by Professor of Psychology John Kelton. This is intended to be an instruction in the various methods of academic
research and data compilation and is hoped to be highly applicable to all fields of study at Davidson.

MacCormac emphasized that all courses offered through the Honors Center are open to all Davidson students, although those students enrolled
in the Honors Center will be given first choice in all offerings. In addition, the Honors Center encourages any student
with an independent research project to make an application for enrollment. “We hope that the student with the desire to
do something on his or her own will do it through the Honors Center. We've found that the student who
really wants to do something will usually do it very well,” MacCormac concluded.
