The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

APRIL 12, 1974

Piping Cold Or Vacationing

The discussion of vocational counseling and placement service prompted a brief tour through the college catalog. Brief, because there wasn't much to find describing these programs. Descriptions of pre-professional programs abounded. To the prospective student, the Catalog seems to say that if you're really interested in thinking about things other than what your roommate is going to be like, then you can ponder the fact that a lot of students here are heading for medical school, law school, seminary, business administration programs, and professional education. And as those four years rush by, you find that the catalog becomes pretty useless. For those who haven't committed themselves to graduate study or training, the placement service should become as watched a service as the mail is for verdicts on hopeful applications. And the placement service is hopefully more efficient. But you have to dig to find it.

Presently, the college placement service is run on a shoestring budget. For what it has to work with, it does a fantastic job. With only a portion of her time available apart from her Union duties, Suzie Summers handles the scheduling of all interviews with prospective employers who choose to visit the campus. Her industry is behind those lists of bankers and insurance agents that proclaim themselves in the announcement sheet every week. The surprising thing is that a steady list is available every week. The college doesn’t solicit these appearances; only the employers who choose to do so appear on campus on their own initiative. If they don’t come to you, you’re going to have to find them elsewhere.

The vital need for this program demands that the college concern itself with a revitalization of this program. Presently, officials are awaiting a response to a request for a substantial Federal loan that would fund an expanded placement program for the next two years. A full-time placement director would be provided, and a correspondingly diverse and effective program could be achieved. But the college must address itself to the possibility that this grant won’t come through, or, more directly, where the money is going to come from two years hence.

Vocationers

To answer this question, the college must take a hard look at its priorities. What is to be done for the student who decides to call a halt, momentarily or finally, to his formal education after four years at Davidson? The assumption at work is that Davidson students naturally gravitate toward positions of professional skill and management. This assumption must be radically amended. No longer can an education here be considered the first step to distinction in a world of hierarchies of success. Some may be content, even thrilled, to perform simple and vital tasks in which education can be continued in the diverse forum of living.

Pre-professional programs are welcome and needed. The vitality of the pre-medicine program attests this fact. The pre-ministerial program has caught this organizing fervor, and it is rumored that the pre-law program may not be hopelessly immune to activity. The Career Service program provides an outlet for those who want to give a certain job a crack right away. Graduate study is a must, however, and the danger is that it is too hastily assumed that all want and should go this way. The college must prepare itself to serve those who want to fish around in waters outside of classrooms. To do this, it is imperative that vocational counseling be improved. Currently, the College Counseling Service provides some service in this area, but it tries to pinpoint interests instead of opening new fields where interests may develop. A full-time Vocational Counselor could cultivate such a body of information and possibilities and make sure that the students have a chance to use it. The Placement Service would then become not a place where one looks for a safety valve, but a service where one can seriously search for a place that appeals to his/her needs to expand education and experience through activity.

The Pied Piper need not chant the same tune of study and success to all; we face a world in which too many scramble to play the music themselves. At least provide those who want to study with some new materials the chance to see what they might grasp...

Letter To The Editor

Mitchell Attacks Davidsonian Bias

To the Editor:

Your cartoon of the last issue, concerning the question of whether THE DAVIDSONIAN ought to remain compulsorily funded, brought to mind some considerations about the special nature of the school paper. These deeper aspects point up, I feel, some of the areas of controversy over the proper role of the paper, and the underlying criticisms that manyof us harbor about the manner in which THE DAVIDSONIAN functions. The editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN jealously and zealously guard their asserted right to act after the fashion of the "free Press" - for instance, they consistently editorialize about a broad range of policy matters, both school-wide and national in scope, and they loudly and actively endorse candidates for election in the SGA. Yet, at the same time, they vociferously demand to continue to be immune to the most powerful check on the "free Press" -- and that is the necessity of selling their views to their readers. In a free society, ideas that are shoddy and poorly expressed will quickly fail to attract enough reader support to facilitate their continued circulation. In a very real sense, the masses of readers subsidize the views that they judge to be worthy and acceptable by their very act of buying a newspaper. The "marketplace of ideas" is not so separate from the real marketplace!

A second crucial balancing factor which holds the free press at bay, but which THE DAVIDSONIAN scorns, is the responsibility of a paper to its owners. A "New York Times" or a "National Review" must needs expound and maintain a consistent editorial policy which strikes a delicate balance between what its owners would like to say and what its readers will let them say. With these observations in mind, how can THE DAVIDSONIAN justify its policy of endorsing candidates for SGA offices?

There are two very basic objections to this policy that I would voice. First, in a community where all of the students own an equal share of the paper, how can that paper operate to use a student's property to oppose his own convictions? A case in point: in last December's elections, I supported Vince Rabil for the presidency of the SGA. I did not appreciate your endorsing his opponent, Blain Butner. Mr. Rabil did not appreciate it, and his brother Mark objected as well. Actually, the Rabil family owns double the interest in this paper as the Butners -- if anything, you should have endorsed Vince! But you shouldn't have endorsed anybody, for this second reason. How did you come to be qualified and called to sit in judgment of your fellow students’ capabilities for office?

Sirs, this student body is, by virtue of the admissions process, composed of individuals who are capable of making their own decisions. There is no intellect here so august that the most ignorant of his classmates requires his aid in selecting a candidate. Do you believe in democracy? You do not, sirs; you cannot, for you will find this dilemma inescapable: Either you have no faith in the students’ ability to select their own choice without your sage advice, and you know that by endorsing a candidate you adulterate the democratic process by throwing a great weight behind your handpicked man; or you think, on the contrary, that your endorsement does not sway the result, in which case you are fools to waste your time writing the thing. And I know you are not fools. As your past editor said (and I paraphrase): "This paper endorsed no candidate in 1972 and my man lost. Now when I'm editor, we'll endorse someone, and make damn sure that doesn’t happen again!" And he did. The presumption, the egotism, and the selfishness of such a policy is evident. You have no right to endorse candidates; you have no call to send a blessing to the men of your choice and to confound the earnest and sincere efforts of the men whom you do not deign to smile upon.

I have the completest confidence in our paper's ability to collect and dispense the news of our college community. Besides that, there is so much that you can do, and indeed have done, in illuminating special student concerns and investigating and propounding new policies -- Mr. Canterbury's efforts on the laundry issue are a case in point. You are well qualified to serve as a forum for student opinion (on questions which they can knowledgeably and effectively address), creativity, and expression. Mr. Reed's response to the laundry article was genuinely well-argued and informative and, as for creativity and expression, who can top C. A. and Young Buck? Also, you print funny cartoons (!). Do these things that you are especially fitted for, by virtue of that "special nature" of THE DAVIDSONIAN. But don't tell me how to vote, and don't undertake to feed me second-hand and third-rate political ruminations. Like many of the political enthusiasts here, I find just about all I require along those lines over in the library. And after reading "Time," "Newsweek," "U.S. News," and "National Review" for breadth, and following Kilpatrick, the Alsops, and Evans & Novak for depth, when I pick up the Thursday Night Surprise and see Nixon labeled a nasty fascist -- well, I can only concur with that illustrious past editor of our staff, "The bullshit has got to stop."

Paul Mitchell, '75
Davidson College