Six April 19, 1974

Varied

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Managing Editor

Most Davidson students rarely see the wives of the faculty except in their role of hostesses. However, many of these ladies are involved in community service, government, education, and other activities. Their work, which is to a great extent volunteer, is vital to the Davidson community and to surrounding areas. Realizing that it has only scratched the surface, THE DAVIDSONIAN interviewed three faculty wives to find out a little about their activities.

When June Kimmel came to Davidson with her husband a few years ago, she made a trip to the Davidson Elementary School and was astonished at the number of children who were leaving the sixth grade with severe reading handicaps. Soon afterwards, she began a tutorial program which has alleviated much of the problem. “The need was so intense at that school that I just couldn't stand it,” she commented.

Kimmel began by talking the problem over with her mother-in-law, a reading specialist in West Virginia. They decided to try a method developed by researchers at the University of Indiana which stresses individual tutors, positive reinforcement, and even a programmed script which insures a relatively even teaching method for the volunteer tutors in the program. All the children involved in the reading program that Kimmel heads at the elementary school are now reading, even the ones with low IQ scores. She said that several of the teachers at the elementary school had been skeptical of the program at first, but the results have convinced them of the program's merit. Volunteers spend about 15 minutes at a time with a child. The child competes only with himself and the tutor can set a pace suitable for the individual child. Kimmel said the stress on tutoring must fall on volunteers. “A teacher can’t do it. I think we have just put such a burden on teachers,” she said. “The system the teacher must use in the classroom implies that children are going to learn at the same rate, but they don’t.”

Nancy MacCormac, a member of the Davidson Town Council, is interested in the problems and possibilities involved when the North Mecklenburg/South Iredell communities try to work together. For several years MacCormac has been on the recreation committee in Davidson, and last fall she was elected to serve on the town council. She cites interest in community service rather than political aspirations as her reason for joining the council. The council is concerned right now with planning and zoning in the county. MacCormac believes that cooperation between towns is especially needed in such things as waste and sewage treatment plants. Also, the pressure for consolidation has prompted requests for a more judicious use of land around Davidson. MacCormac and other members of the five-person board are trying to plan how Davidson and the surrounding area will grow. MacCormac also spends a great deal of her time on elementary school activities.

“The small towns, I think, are beginning to cooperate together after the last coalition effort failed. These towns have been very jealous of their independence until recently,” she said.to move at the same rate. But children don’t do this,” she added. One of the most difficult problems Kimmel must cope with in the program is that many of the children she tutors cannot rhyme. “All middle-class children have been read nursery rhymes. The difference is insurmountable,” she commented. The program that Kimmel began two years ago at the Davidson Elementary School has been so successful that teachers are beginning to send primary students with even small problems in reading to her for tutoring. “The program is geared for slow-learning activities. She participates in the school reading program and is on the PTA council. “I probably spend as much time on things related to school as on anything else,” she said. One of her special concerns is the need for a community center that the Ada Jenkins School for the past year for this purpose, and MacCormac hopes that they will renew the lease soon. She and others have been checking into a federal grant for the program. The Tarradiddle Players, which MacCormac works with, are a group of people who present folktales to audiences of children throughout the area. They use pantomime, musical instruments, and a variety of other drama techniques in the productions. “I do this for fun, not because I have any great talent,” commented MacCormac. This year the group is presenting four non-western folk tales. 

Students working in the Drama department at Davidson depend on Carol Barber for many of the colorful costumes they use throughout the year. However, few know that she is the Psycho-Prophylaxis (Lamaze) method of prepared childbirth to groups around Charlotte for about 41 years. Barber added, “The techniques themselves when done properly involve relaxation, special breathing techniques, and concentration. The Lamaze method is a relatively new thing as far as medicine is concerned. It’s only been available in the United States for 13 years.” Also, the program is unique because it encourages the husband to take an active role as a labor coach. He attends classes with his wife and provides support. “The husbands get very involved—there’s been a great response,” said Barber. She is certified by the American Society for Psycho-Prophylaxis in Obstetrics. Certification is only open to doctors and registered nurses, and it is rather long and involved. In addition to an extensive bibliography and classes, Barber has participated in teacher training workshops and other requirements for certification. “I've gotten more both personal and professional satisfaction from teaching these classes than anything else I've ever done in or out of nursing,” she commented. 

photos by Moncure