«OUT OF MY WAY BUSTER»

Davidson's baseball team begins a homestand this week. The team has just returned from a weekend road trip which saw
them lose all four of their games.

Can Charlotte Support a Football Franchise?
By PETE CELENTANO
Staff Writer

Time and time again Charlotte has proved that it is not a "big-league" town. Take the case of the Cougars.
Here is a championship basketball team which cannot draw consistently well in Charlotte or any other city in this supposedly
"basketball-crazy" state.

An additional factor is the population of this area. Charlotte is a rather small (by professional standards) area from which
to draw good crowds (approximately 400,000 people within a 20-mile radius) and this is not the hotbed of football that
comparably-sized cities such as Tampa, Fla. and Birmingham, Alabama are.

Another factor is the chance of the team failing at the gate. It has been estimated that a WFL team
would have to average 40,000 per game in order to break even. If the team does poorly and with the
competition from high school, college, and televised NFL games, it is doubtful that this break-even point will be approached.

The cost of building a stadium would also be prohibitive. Memorial Stadium is inadequate both in seating capacity and parking
facilities. Building a new stadium or enlarging the present stadium would involve an enormous cash outlay.

Finally, consider the people of Charlotte. There is a large proportion of transients who could not or would not support
a local professional team. Charlotteans have been consistently apathetic about professional sports in general and there would be no reason
for them to change now. Charlotte, in short, is not ready for a professional franchise in football or any other
sport. Perhaps it never will be.

On the local scene, the expressed "de-emphasis" of football at Davidson does not seem to have helped any of the
"minor" sports here. There has not been any expression of increased financial support for baseball, soccer, tennis, swimming, rifle, etc.
Why not spend some time re-evaluating the entire sports philosophy at Davidson? There is no reason why Davidson should not
broaden its athletic horizons. Fencing, lacrosse, bowling, ice hockey, water polo, field hockey, and team handball might be considered as
possible intercollegiate sports. Davidson has for too long revolved on the traditional football-basketball axis in intercollegiate athletics. Adding such diverse
sports as those mentioned above would involve many students.

The Davidsonian
April 5, 1974

Davidson Diamonders Drop Four Games On Road Trip
By MARK WILENSKY
Sports Editor

After picking up a 14-0 victory over Franklin and Marshall one week ago, Davidson’s baseball team embarked upon a weekend
road trip with newly found confidence. They returned with four straight defeats.

Against Franklin and Marshall, freshman Tim Peck, though wild, threw a strong two-hitter. The Cats played a perfect game in
the field and hit with authority. Mitch Stone continued his fine hitting with two singles and Mark Rodgman broke loose
with a double and a homer. Cleanup hitter George Weicker banged four hits including a home run. Ed Willingham also
began to hit in this game.

Joel Tew opened up the road trip...at East Carolina Saturday. Tew gave up only three singles, but East Carolina grouped
two of them around a walk and an error by shortstop Gary Pomeroy to score two unearned runs in the
fifth. He slammed the door thereafter, but the damage was already done. The Wildcats outhit the Pirates 5-3, but scored
only when Bill Todd’s single drove Weicker home in the fourth. Dave Mayberry singled and was sacrificed to second in
the fifth, but Stone and Dave Ingold flew out, ending the threat.

In the second game, Ross Manire, who pitched so well against VMI, got shelled as East Carolina triumphed 12-0. Manire
was in trouble from the start as East Carolina hit everything the stylish left-hander threw up. Cat bats were silent
once again as Davidson managed only four scattered singles. The Wildcats never threatened in the game. No Davidson runner reached
second base.

After the two losses at Greenville, the team moved to Williamsburg, Va. to tangle with William and Mary. The change
of scenery did the sick Cat bats little good. Dwight Plemmons started against the Indians in the opener. Plemmons was
extremely sharp and permitted six hits and two runs (one unearned). Once again, good pitching went for naught. Davidson scored
once in the top of the seventh on Weicker’s single, a passed ball, and another single by Red Nichols. Tetouan
and Dave Ingold had the two other Cat hits, Ingold’s a double.

Freshman Jim Barr made his initial start in the second game for Davidson and was rudely greeted. Three runs and
four Indian hits knocked him out in the second. Frank Folger came on with the bases full and nobody out
and stifled the threat. Folger finished the game, yielding only two hits in the five full innings he worked. While
collecting six singles and Gary Pomeroy’s triple, the Cats could manage only one run. Mitch Stone drove Pomeroy in with
a single following the shortstop’s triple in the second.

SAILING MASTER
An experienced sailor is needed to head up the quality sailing program at a resident coed camp. Experience is needed
in large boats as well as knowledge of Scorpion sailboats. Five staff members and a fleet of 25 boats would
be under the supervision of the Sailing Master. Camp experience in water sports, with sailing being a feature program. Please
reply immediately to G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Rt. 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C. 29710.

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
JEWELERS
Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N. C.

You may qualify.
* FREE FLYING LESSONS PLUS $9,800 INCOME YOUR FIRST YEAR
And that's only the start of your career as a pilot/navigator. An Air Force officer. You'll acquire valuable experience that
will pay off in civilian life like a head start on a commercial flying career . . . or impressive
executive credentials to go with the degree you're earning now: proven leadership ability and million-dollar responsibility. You'll earn from $9,800
to $16,000. Benefits including 30 days paid vacation annually, free worldwide air travel, medical care, and much more. If you're
between 20½ and 26½, a senior or graduate student, contact United States Air Force TSgt. Roger Church at 332-3046.
