Vol. LXIV, No. Ten

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

Food Shortage Demands

By MICHAEL TANNER
Editor-in-Chief

“It is my hope that young people, students, will take the opportunity to travel to the developing countries. In this way, we can hope in the future for the mutual respect, mutual cooperation, and mutual understanding that will be necessary for the problems of the world to be solved.” This was the opinion of T.N. Kaul, Ambassador of India to the United States, when he addressed an audience in Love Auditorium.

Kaul emphasized that what India and the other underdeveloped countries of the world need is not the pity of developed nations but rather their resources and cooperation in dealing with the problems that most urgently confront them, especially hunger. “I deeply regret,” he said, “that the U.S. news media treats the food problem with such sensationalism. My country does not depend on charity and pity. We desperately need their help to enable us to handle our problems alone.”

Kaul submits that the issue is not the consumption excesses of the United States but rather the ability to provide the bare minimum for as many people as possible. According to the ambassador, the sustenance problem of India is not starvation. The real issue is undernutrition and malnutrition, both seriously impairing the nation’s productivity and both resulting from an inadequate protein content of the nation’s foodstuffs. Progress against this problem was begun in the 1960s with the Green Revolution but has slowed in recent years due to rises in the world prices of oil, fertilizer, and industrial raw materials. In addition, many developing countries lack the infrastructure necessary for self-sufficiency, such as irrigation and storage facilities, transportation, and communication networks.

It is not adequate that developed nations should make food gifts to developing nations. Rather, these food-surplus countries should move from a phase of independence to one of interdependence. “What happens in one area of the world affects all of the rest. Prime Minister Gandhi has said that the question now is whether the developed countries can afford not to help developing countries,” Kaul said.

Kaul concluded his address with remarks on two sets of circumstances that are central to India’s struggle for stability and advancement. First, he pointed out that one must realize now the problem of population is inextricably tied up with the problem of hunger. He observed that a rising population will retard growth and the rise of the standard of living. India currently funds the largest family planning program in the world. Last year, over $650 million were spent to this end, and last year, 90 percent of all vasectomies performed in the world were performed in India. According to Kaul, the average life expectancy in India has risen from 32 years to 55 years, but despite this fall in the death rate, the growth of population has been decreased from 2.8 percent to 2.2 percent annually.

“With a population the size of India’s, this 2.2 percent growth rate still represents many people, but one can’t treat these people as if they were cattle and chop off their heads. We must hope for a gradual move toward zero population growth, possibly within the next 10 years.”

The second subject of Kaul’s remarks was the rise of the Soviet Bloc, which has appeared and gelled since the Second World War. “We have not chosen a policy of neutrality but rather one of non-alignment. We wish the right to judge each issue separately and to enjoy equality, cooperation, and respect with all nations of the world. The moral fiber of a nation, the faith of its people in its destiny, and the determination of its people to solve their own problems, with help from others, is the new form of nationalism that India embraces.”

“The energy crisis, the food crisis, the monetary crisis are all different facets of a common global problem which must be tackled adequately.”

The 1974 Davidson ROTC Color Guard has performed at all home football games and recently carried the colors at the Charlotte parade, honoring the WBT Hornets.