Cole, Barksdale Set Queens Run Mark

by HAL MUNGER
Staff Writer

Bill Cole and John Barksdale, two Davidson students, set a new record on a run to Queens.

At 10 a.m. Sunday, April 7, Cole and Barksdale began running down Highway 115 towards Charlotte. Three hours later, they
had run this course 23 minutes faster than any other Davidson student ever had. The distance is 24.6 miles.

Their efforts had far exceeded their expectations. They had overcome such obstacles as speeding trucks, heavy traffic, and a sun
that burned hotter with each stride.

The weather made them both quite thirsty, so their run was interrupted twice by 30-second pauses for refreshment at drink
machines. Despite these obstacles, Cole and Barksdale overcame their fatigue and sore feet in record time.

This run is a tradition at Davidson that had slept since November 1971. At that time, Davidson students Ron Clarke,
Howard Boyd, Randy Coble, Joe Shibley, Steve Bonneville, Dave Reid, and Don Butts completed the distance in three hours and
28 minutes.

Cole is an experienced long-distance runner who has run in four marathon runs. A marathon is a run which is
26 miles 385 yards long. Nonetheless, running to Queens is not an everyday event. Even experienced runners like Cole wonder
if they can do it.

“Tradition was one of the main reasons I ran,” he said. “Plus I wanted to see if I could do
it. I was out of shape. You never know if you can finish at any distance.”

Barksdale had never attempted such a distance before. “It was a spur of the moment thing that intrigued me. It
sounded challenging and I wanted to see if I could do it,” he said.

Running has become an important aspect of the lives of Cole and Barksdale.

“It’s relaxing, it gets you in shape,” Cole commented. Long sustained runs like the one to Queens tend to be
quite painful. But Cole added, “After running with pain, you get a sense of satisfaction.”

“You run when you hurt because you know you are getting in shape, so that next time you won’t hurt
as much and will enjoy it more,” Barksdale commented.

“Also, the pain is compensated up to a point by the exhilaration,” Cole said.

However, Cole and Barksdale both agreed that competition is a significant motivator.

“If there were no races I probably wouldn’t run,” Cole said. “I probably would find some other way to keep
in shape, like riding a bicycle.”

Nonetheless, competition remains a key aspect of their running endeavors.

(See ENERGY page 7)

---

We have come a long way in sports at Davidson during this past academic year.

Most notable was the revamping of the football program by the Board of Trustees. Davidson will now be aligned in
Division III of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. This group consists of schools which grant financial assistance to gridders only
on the basis of need.

Football continues the new look with a new mentor. Ed Farrell replaced Dave Fagg, who resigned to take a post
under Pepper Rogers at Georgia Tech.

Farrell has signed some key prospects for the coming year and is blessed with a schedule that makes predictions of
a winning season very common. It is quite possible that the Cats could have one of their best records ever
in the coming campaign.

Basketball also sports somewhat of a new look. Bo Brickels is anything but a new face in the Wildcat athletic
staff. But he is a newcomer to the ranks of head coach after replacing Terry Holland, who left to accept
the head post at the University of Virginia.

Girls made the Davidson scene this year as the college became officially coeducational. With this change appeared a girls basketball
team, along with their tennis counterpart, as well as a female on the swimming team.

These additions should certainly be considered a change for the better on the Presbyterian campus.

Baseball came on strong at the end of the season. But they will also have a new look, as head
coach Tom Stevens will be leaving Davidson in June, according to informed sources.

Finally, the campus will sport a new, all-weather track for the coming year. This will be one of the finer
athletic facilities on the campus.

Oh, and this year also saw the first broadcasting of Wildcat athletic events on the campus radio station, WDAV.

So, all in all, it has been a year for change. Let’s just hope this present trend continues.

Sidelines

---

May 10, 1974
