Fourteen March 29, 1974 Sailers Co By LARRY MIMMS Asst. Managing Editor The Davidson Spring Invitational Sailing Regatta ended in a flurry last week with winners being decided in the last races of the day. The College of Charleston outmaneuvered the other five teams, Citadel, Davidson, Duke, N.C. State, and Old Dominion, to win the overall competition. Charleston sailors overcame the shifty winds to take second place in the A division, lifting the Davidson team into a tie with Duke for second place overall. (Staff photo by Goodman) The Davidson College sailing team took second place in the Lake Norman Regatta last week. They will be competing in the conference eliminations on Saturday.

RUGBY TOURNAMENT The Davidson Rugby Club will host a rugby tournament this weekend with Clemson, UNC, and Charlotte opposing them. On Saturday, the first round will begin with Clemson vs. Davidson at 2 p.m. and UNC vs. Charlotte at 3:30 p.m. On Sunday, a consolation match between the losers of Saturday’s matches will begin at 2 p.m., followed by the tournament championship match between the two winners of Saturday’s matches. A trophy will be given to the winner of this match. Rugby parties will follow the matches on both days; everyone is invited to come to the matches and the parties.

Netters Smash (Continued from page 13) Mitchell has been extremely hot in the last two weeks. Frank was extremely pleased with the overall play of the club, as he felt there has been great improvement in the players’ performances. He thinks the team is getting “in the groove for the tough upcoming matches.” The squad opened the week with an 8-1 shelling of Amherst. Allen, Quinby, and Bressler led the team again, as each won in three sets. Once again, Mitchell played exceptional tennis at the number six spot as he smashed his opponent. The Cats also won all three doubles, which reassured Frank, who was disturbed with the losses in some doubles matches last week. He feels the team is getting stronger in the lower portions of the squad, which should be a significant factor in the future matches. The Cats travel to South Carolina tomorrow, but will return home for a Monday match with Duke, which is supposed to be one of the top powers in the Atlantic Coast Conference. They also have a Wednesday match at home with Harvard.

Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates North Main Street Davidson, N.C. 28036 College Agents Brad Tipler Dick Richardson Rollie White Bill Smith Mike Pappas

Baseball (Continued from page 12) the rest of the way. The Cats exploded in the third. Stone and Nichols singled around a Rodgman double and combined with some sloppy work by VMI receiver Harry Barksdale, three runs were produced. Two more scored in the fourth as Ed Willingham, Weicker, and Pomeroy had singles. Ingold, Pomeroy, and Nicholssingled while Todd doubled in the fifth, and three more Cat runs scored. Davidson had nine runs on 12 hits for the game. Manire pitched extremely well. Coming back from last year's arm woes, he gave up few hits. While not overpowering, he struck out three and walked only one, and squared his season’s mark at 1-1.

Daryl Douglass started strong in the first set of races with 1st, 1st, and 2nd, and continued the second set with a 2nd, 4th, and 2nd. The second-place finish in the last race gave Douglass a 1 pt. victory over the Charleston A division. In the B division, Brant Barohem of Duke edged out another College of Charleston skipper for that division's honors. The outcome of that dogfight also ended in the last race. Davidson sailors Dave Francis and his crew Tommy Lee, and skipper Mark Leonard and his crew Randy Henwood, combined to place fourth in division B.

“Daryl has sailed very well this spring, but I’m not at all satisfied with my performance,” Francis said. “Our inexperience in intercollegiate racing has been a factor,” he added.

This Saturday, the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association League A Elimination will be held. Davidson will vie with UNC-CH, Old Dominion, Virginia, and Duke for one of the top three places, which would enable them to advance to the championship on May 5. “We feel confident in making one of the top three spots,” Francis said. Davidson's A division will be manned by David, and Francis will skipper the B division entry. They will retain their respective crews.

“It’s important to have coordination and teamwork in sailing. The crew handles the jib sail, and the skipper manipulates the main sail.”

CAMP COUNSELOR NEEDED

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in working with boys and girls, ages 7-16, at Camp Thunderbird, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C. An A.C.A. accredited member, Thunderbird specializes in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further information, write to G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C. 29710.

CARLO’S Jeans n' Things At Depression Prices
122 S. Main St. Mooresville, N.C.

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry
Jewelers of trusted reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St. Phone 664-3624 Mooresville, N.C.

A film of Albert Camus’ L’etranger (The Stranger) will be shown April 2, 8:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Meursault, the principal character (not the hero) of L’etranger, is like each of us—strangers to our own lives, obsessed with the “absurd,” and tempted by nihilism. Meursault is condemned to death, says Camus, “because he does not play the game...he refuses to lie...which is what all of us do every day to simplify life.” This is a rare opportunity to see this excellent and fairly recent film starring Marcello Mastroianni. The dialogue is in French with English subtitles. There is no admission charge for this film offered by the French Department.