__ Pason Fellows | Union Renovation Budget

Funds: $10,000 for the renovation of the Union Street building. The women's village will receive $6,000. The remaining $4,000 will
be allocated to the Charles Shepard Memorial Hall. The initial payment will be made upon signing the agreement.

The Namapey Ladies will receive $2,000 for their activities. The funds will be used to provide support for their programs
and initiatives.

The total budget for the project is $20,000. The funds will be used to purchase equipment, renovate the building, and
cover other expenses. The project is expected to be completed by the end of the year.

The project supervisor will be responsible for overseeing the renovation and ensuring that the work is completed on time and
within budget. The supervisor will also be responsible for coordinating with contractors and suppliers.

The project will include the following:

- Renovation of the Union Street building
- Purchase of new equipment
- Support for the Namapey Ladies' activities
- Renovation of the Charles Shepard Memorial Hall

The project is expected to improve the facilities and provide better support for the community. The renovation will create a
more welcoming and functional space for all users.

The project will be funded by a combination of grants and donations. The project team will work to secure additional
funding if needed.

The project is a collaborative effort between the Pason Fellows, the Namapey Ladies, and the local community. The project team
will work closely with all stakeholders to ensure the success of the project.

The project is expected to have a positive impact on the community by providing improved facilities and support for local
activities. The renovation will create a more vibrant and active community space.

The project team will provide regular updates on the progress of the renovation. The updates will be shared with all
stakeholders to keep them informed and engaged.

The project is expected to be completed by December 31st. The project team will work diligently to ensure that the
renovation is completed on time and within budget.

The project will be evaluated upon completion to assess its impact and success. The evaluation will include feedback from stakeholders
and an assessment of the project's outcomes.

The project team is committed to ensuring the success of the renovation and providing a better space for the community.
The team will work hard to achieve the project's goals and deliver a high-quality renovation.

The project is an important initiative for the community and will provide lasting benefits. The renovation will create a more
welcoming and functional space for all users and support the activities of the Namapey Ladies and other community groups.

The project team is excited to begin the renovation and looks forward to working with all stakeholders to achieve the
project's goals. The team is committed to delivering a successful renovation and providing a better space for the community.
