Ques i, 1998 She Bavidsonian Eric Walker Davidson Heroes Attain Glory By Timid Resistance

Oh, where are the heroes of Davidson? In bandages, I do believe. Walking down just one flight of stairs on
a Monday, I met a leg in a cast and two evidently new crutches, an eye beneath a massive wad
of gauze, and an arm in a sling. Some frightful new form of dorm war—bubble gum cards? When will we
make the CBS Evening News? When will we make the cover of the "Rolling Stone"?

Where are the closet heroes of Davidson? I suspect they could be easily found. Take one coed with a seductive
scream, place her in the quadrangle of Belk at an early morning hour, have her yell for help in a
terrified and supplicating voice, and watch Sir Galahad gallop out from all directions. Hordes of eyes followed these wounds of
honor down the halls. Yet no one made a reasonably safe way for the puncture in my pulse throbbing, I
strode across the street and ceremoniously put a match to it. I also had a reasonably safe way to send
myself down a leaf-packed dry mountain stream bed in a little plastic boat. Maybe I needed a bright orange Band-Aid.

Who do we make our heroes at Davidson? Uniforms help, especially ones with numbers and names on the back. Yet
most of us are stuck with the uniforms of anonymity: jeans with a patch here and there and shirts stolen
from lumberjacks. When will we snatch the one chance for glory? Timid resistors sneak up the post office driveway the
wrong way at four in the morning. Timid resistors eat four meals as they stand in the cafeteria line. Timid
resistors like to wander the campus and ask directions to the library. Yet timid resistance may be our one shot
for private glory.

Back when the draft was more than a remote worry, the ROTC department sent out sugary letters of invitation. Ah
yes, I remember rumors of football. If ever I pass my fifth-grade teacher on the street, I hope to have
a new book in tow. Then, with visions of thirty kids obediently folding down groups of three pages, front and
back, I will stop her with a mad grin and bend back my new book at the middle as the
spine produces a triumphant CRACK!

Who can record the tales of heroism that go unnoticed? We at Davidson, at one time or another, have perfected
the art of timid resistance. The heroes of the movement are those who watch 97 consecutive hours of television during
exams. Movement T-shirts have pictures of Duane Allman instead of clenched fists.

Claude Kipnis of the Mime Theater will appear in Love Auditorium as part of the Artist Series tonight at 8:15
p.m. He has appeared with his company in theaters in New York, Paris, Tel-Aviv, and other major cities in North
America and Europe; at music festivals and dance festivals; on television over NBC's Today Show and on the BBC.

D.H. Lawrence liked movies about as much as factories. He would be horrified if he could see the film Ken
Russell has made of "Women in Love," his best novel in his opinion and mine. Russell considers this movie with
much favor. The screenplay lifts sections of dialogue from the book and provides an accurate transcription of Lawrencian themes, but
the themes are trivial removed from context. And Russell couldn’t care less about them. Like "Memories Within Miss Aggie," "Women
in Love" consists of more or less serious passages which lead to frankly sensational ones, and these are what the
film is really about. Gerald Crich and Gudrun Brangwen, Lawrence’s forces of darkness, steal the movie from Rupert Birkin and
Ursula Brangwen just as surely as Milton’s Great Golden Angel steals "Paradise Lost" from the Godhead.

Considering the script, director, and actors, this was bound to happen. Rupert is a stand-in for the author in the
novel, and Alan Bates is made up to look like Lawrence in the movie. Russell’s idea of artistic goukres is
that they are lively and jump around a lot. He has inflicted this conception upon Bates, and the resulting performance
is even less successful than that of Scott Anthony in the similar role in "Savage Messiah." The healthy women in
Russell’s film never come off so well as the nymphomaniacs. The major female performances under Russell—Glenda Jackson in "Women in
Love," Jackson and practically the entire female supporting cast in "The Boyfriend," Lutin in "The Music Lovers."

When will they write the story of the masses on the backs of reel-to-reel reviews?“Savage Messiah” are all in sexually
hysterical roles. He is one of the foremost directors of actresses in our time, and even his “good” females are
usually nicely enacted. Jennie Linden’s Ursula is one of the paler ones, however. Oliver Reed, a fine actor, has never
been so good as in “The Devils,” where he rises to unexpected stature, equalling the best of Richard Burton. His
Gerald is his performance before his major one, and one sign of the quality of his work is that Glenda
Jackson does not completely wipe him off the screen, as she usually does to her romantic leads. Seething with melodramatic
passions, Reed still manages to bring a degree of control to his role. He is fairly convincing and quite forceful.
At his best, he is a perfect actor for Russell’s movies.

Glenda Jackson is one of the many actresses who have done their best work under Russell. Like Reed’s major accomplishment,
hers is contained in the film made immediately after “Women in Love.” Only a few moments of her Gudrun equal
her great Nina. In the latter role, Jackson exploits her natural qualities as an actress and plays a snarling nymphomaniac
scourge to all homosexuals, in the Bernhardt manner. As Gudrun, her plainness is rather miraculously concealed by expert make-up and
cinematography. While hardly demure, she is more restrained. Gudrun wants to be chased; Nina is an aspiring rapist. Jackson creates
a fine characterization in “Women in Love,” but she is really a star performer, which is why her acting in
“The Music Lovers” is the more profound. She is closer to being one than Davis or anyone else. The comparison
that is often made of Jackson with Bette Davis is a valid one. Some critics seek to dismiss both as
camp artists, which is an odious mistake. “Camp” lacks the depth of great acting and is merely a silly burlesque
of the form which many great actors are driven to in their searches for expressiveness. Sometimes there is an overlap
of greatness and camp, as in the case of Tallulah Bankhead. But the best work of Jackson and Davis seems
to me to fall clearly into the realm of serious acting. Those who call these actresses camp artists are confusing
highly baroque, exquisitely precise technique with comic buffoonery. While I may chuckle over the excesses of some of their performances
after the movies, I am never tempted to do so while watching.

“Women in Love” is a fecund mess. Almost every aspect of the film is as talented and uneven as the
acting. (A couple of the supporting performances are dreadful.) Russell generally does not have the inclination or the patience or
even the intellectual strength to create sustained films. His most recent films, however, are becoming stronger taken as wholes. What
he has is a tremendous amount of talent. Those who call him a mad genius exaggerate. His imagination is neither
that sharp nor his unevenness that erratic. His casting of Mick Jagger as Liszt in an upcoming film is a
reflection of his personality rather than any mental instability. It is a tragedy that Jagger didn’t play Tchaikovsky in “The
Music Lovers.” Russell is not a camp artist, but he is as cynical as the Shakespeare who wrote “Troilus and
Cressida.” Russell creates some of the most heart-stoppingly beautiful moments ever put on film and satirizes them at the same
time. They demand to be taken seriously, and most sensitive viewers do so. But Russell does not. His films are
violent collisions of comedy and drama. He realizes that art is essentially artifice, illusion, contrivance. His movies abound with theatrical
make-up, Oriental scarves, and some of the best dance sequences ever put on film. He works with the basic Hollywood
clichés and turns them into gold. In “Women in Love,” there is a slow-motion scene of nude lovers running towards
each other in a field of waving grass. This has been done a thousand times before. Only Russell finds the
truth within it and, all at once, it becomes no longer cliché. This sequence is not the most beautiful in
“Women in Love,” nor are the most beautiful in Russell’s career. I use this scene because it illustrates my point
clearly, not because it is a favorite.

“Women in Love” is my “Last Tango in Paris,” “L.A. Plays Itself” and “Lola Montes.” The first couple of times
I saw the film, it had an erotic effect on me as strong as that of “Last Tango in Paris”
and “L.A. Plays Itself” upon Pauline Kael and Stuart Byron. With later viewings, the affair became increasingly Platonic, like that
of Andrew Sarris for “Lola Montes.” “Women in Love” is my favorite movie by my favorite director. I love it
for its strengths and its faults.

By JOE MCMILLAN
