Twelve March 29, 1974

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

Holland, who had spent five years as the Cat mentor, made a trip to accept the coaching job at the
University of South Florida in Tampa. He resigned from the Davidson administration to accept the same duties at the University
of Virginia. Holland succeeds Bill Gibson, who resigned just prior to the Atlantic Coast Conference Tournament.

And it came to pass that North Carolina State won the national basketball championship... It got to the point where
you could not even read the paper without being overwhelmed by State propaganda. But I guess that is what should
happen when the state gets its first national title since the Tar Heels of UNC captured the crown a long
time ago.

There were some very depressing moments during the past few weeks for someone like me, who is anything but a
State fan. It all started with the ACC Tournament. And the depression got worse.

Maryland... Almost Enough

After the Maryland maul of UNC in the semifinals of the ACC tourney, it looked as though State would be
in for a real haggle. They were. And whether or not they were ready for the Terps may never be
known. But the ball-hawking defense near the end of the regulation portion of the game, coupled with a sudden ineptitude
of the Terps to work their offense, gave the Pack the spark they needed.

To a great extent, Tom McMillan had a point when he said Maryland should pull out of the ACC. With
the tourney in North Carolina, especially at the Greensboro Coliseum, the Terps were definitely at a disadvantage.

State... Homecourt Edge

It could not have been a more timely place than this season for the regional finals of the east to
return to Reynolds Coliseum. If the Pack had lost there, it would have been goodbye Norm Sloan. They did anything
but lose.

Then came the finals. The Pack at home in Greensboro. In my opinion, UCLA just blew it. The 11-point leads,
the seven-point overtime advantage... they just blew it. Perhaps they should have tried to hold the ball more with the
lead in the overtime. That might have been the winning strategy. But who should second-guess John Wooden?

Credit the Pack with never giving up. They should be shot for not getting the winning baskets with little time
left in both regulation and overtime. But the game is history and State is the NCAA champion.

Walton... Foul On The Press

The last portion of this column is given to the defense of Bill Walton, upon his recent attempted demolition by
the news media, especially some of the Charlotte papers. If a guy has just played in his first losing effort
in playoff competition, why go into the locker room at all? I think just about anyone who, after being rated
the best player in the nation for two years, has just played in what had to be an...emotional contest for
all the participants, would have reacted in much the same situation. There is some individual right to not talking with
the press if you don’t want to. And, unless I miss my guess, the same “reporters” would not have written
about Thompson or Burleson or Towe in the same manner, if they had refused to talk to the press, had
State been the loser. Walton proved he was not the “sore loser” and “bad sport” that some area papers claimed
he was by playing in a consolation game that did not mean beans for him or any of the other
seniors. And after losing for the first time in nearly 40 playoff games, I don’t know if I —

In a personal contest, pre-conceived possibilities of the job with the athletic staff of, most notably, Athletic Director, while not
extremely successful in recent years, has tremendous potential. But Holland also left with some reluctance. “I love the place and
the people,” he said. “It’s very hard for me to leave Davidson.” Holland also mentioned that he must consider his
family in the move. The Virginia position is a very lucrative one. The Clinton, N.C. native has led the nation
in field goal shooting percentage while playing forward. He remained here after graduation at Driesell’s request to coach the freshman
team. He had winning records during all his seasons. Then, when Driesell left for Maryland in 1969, Holland went with
him. But when Larry Brown, who was named to succeed the new...

Davidson For Va. Post

Fagg left to take a post under Homer Smith at Georgia.

Diamonders Clout VMI, 9-1 Behind Manire Mound Work

Behind the strong two-hit pitching of Ross Manire, Davidson's baseball team bombed VMI 9-1 and split a doubleheader on Saturday.
VMI took the first game 3-2. In that first game, Joel Tew went to the mound for the Cats. Despite
some early wildness, Tew pitched a strong game. Errors by shortstop Gary Pomeroy and catcher Mark Rodgman contributed to VMI’s
two-run third, and Kim Wong’s booming triple set up the final Keydet run in the fifth. Tew struck out four
and walked only two in his seven-inning eight-hitter. While walking few, Tew’s wildness...

sixth with a deep single to left, out, ending the...

Lewin had trouble in the seventh as Mitch Stone boomed a pinch double to left center. After slumping, Dave Ingold
flew to center, Gary Pomeroy struck out. George Weicker plated Stone with a long double to left and Mark Rodgman
had an infield hit to put the winning run at third, but Dave Mayberry...

For Your "Prat out Guat"...

back in the third when left fielder Wong singled in Tom Ridley. That was it for VMI, as Manire allowed
but two baserunners...

(See BASEBALL, page 14)

SPORTING LIFE

TENNIS SHORTS BY Munsingwear and Jantzen

KNIT SHIRTS by Izod, Munsingwear and Jantzen

TENNIS SHOES Jack Purcell by Converse

MOCCASINS

ESTABLISHED

Join Jack & Gun

128 NORTH MAIN STREET

MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
