Steve Canterbury
The Davidsonian, March 22, 1974

Five Discriminatory Laundry Fee Opposed

Next year, (if you return to Davidson) you're going to pay $2350 for tuition, $675 for Slater food (or around that much for Patterson Court food); $450 for a double room ($545 for a single); $80 for student fees; and $130 for laundry. The tuition has been frozen for a few years—I can’t complain about that. The price of utilities and maintenance as well as food has grown tremendously, so those increases are somewhat understandable. The student fund is a sort of payment to ourselves so if that money is misused, it’s sort of my fault and yours. But that final figure—the laundry fee—is another story. Frankly, that bill is atrocious.

Our catalogue has but one paragraph about the laundry (p. 57): “The College laundry provides to all students bed linens, washing, drying and folding of any other items. Dry cleaning and pressing charges are on a cash basis.” Conveniently, the catalogue has absolutely no mention of the price of the laundry service. (I received my figures from the cashier’s office.) I suppose such an outrageous sum would make for poor publicity—remember, the catalogue is sent to all applicants.

Other than leaving out how much the “College laundry” costs us, there is another glaring error in the above paragraph. According to the catalogue, “all students” are provided with the laundry service. That statement is a direct lie. Only all unmarried male students must pay the fee. For the women, the fee is not mandatory. The college has provided both Watts and Little dormitories with coin-operated washers and dryers. So in a sense, the college has provided the women with a laundry; the girls must provide only their own service. By using coin-operated machines, each coed will pay a maximum of $45 a year. (That figure comes from assuming a girl will use $1.50 per week on laundry. I don’t know of a single girl who spends more than a dollar a week, so the figure is more likely between $30 and $40 a year.) Each coed must pay $25 per year for the bed linen service. If we take the maximum amount for laundry ($45) and add the linen service fee, the sum is $70. The women must pay $70 a year.

The Joy Of Eating Fugitives Hating At Home
Woody Connette

In all the restaurants I’ve been to lately, the most attractive feature I have found has been the three-cent mints at the cash register counter. I’m tired of eating out, and that brings me to the crux of the matter. Among the better books in our bathroom library is one entitled “adhocism,” which examines the use of available materials to attack immediate situations without awaiting the perfect or proper conditions.

One of the experiences common to a growing segment of the student body is that of cooking in the dorms. Neglected and persecuted, these fugitives gather daily like catacombed Christians to sit around hotplates and watch pots boil with an endless variety of meals. Using a dismally limited collection of hardware, they are able to call upon their creativity to toss together seemingly incongruous ingredients and come up with meals that are surprising if not delicious.

There are two advantages to such an existence. First is the matter of economy, and second is the freedom of the person to eat what he/she wants, when, where, and how he/she wants it. The major disadvantage is the mess of cleaning up after each meal. Most meals so prepared are of the one-pot category. Some of the more popular entrees in this do-it-yourself social system are impromptu stews made by mixing various canned ingredients and an occasional graham cracker. Meats that come frozen in plastic bags can be boiled in the water that is simultaneously being used to prepare rice or other vegetables.

As a sophomore living in Little amid a sea of seniors, making chili from scratch was one of my favorites. My roommate Craig Yoder never liked it. Few people get into baking breads, but this is the most fun of all. For simplicity’s sake, Bisquick can be used. Jelly, butter, pie filling, or cinnamon can be added for variety, and a deep, covered pot used for baking. On a hotplate, heat two bricks from the new library. Place the pot on top of one brick with the other brick on top of the pot. Next, go to class or do something else to kill an hour while the bread bakes. Delicious.

Special occasions may call for spaghetti, which can be cooked in a popcorn popper. Ad hoc tablecloths will leave the laundry ladies wondering what caused all those stains on the bedsheets. Admittedly, there are rules against dorm cooking, but it should be left to the individual to decide whether to respect that regulation. The state law against dorm cooking was passed by the same legislative body that saw fit to outlaw all but the missionary position in another realm of interpersonal ecstasy. All I have to say on this matter is that liver, onion soup, and other foods that cause offensive odors to permeate the entire dorm should be avoided.

If food were the only thing to be gained from dorm cooking, the law would hardly be worth haggling over. But a surprising number of students come to Davidson unable to perform even the simplest kitchen operation. Time and errors can correct this however, leaving the person more self-sufficient and less dependent upon Burger Whop and finding a future wife who can cook. I remember watching a group of SPE’s grocery shopping the day after they were kicked out of Random House. Even then, they were getting into the spirit of the affair, but I doubt that they are still eating that many TV dinners. What are you eating?year for laundry and the men must pay $130! Seems a bit unfair, doesn’t it? Actually, it’s more than simply unfair, it’s illegal. After checking with a Charlotte legal aid service, I have found that having one comprehensive fee for one sex and another comprehensive fee for the other sex is a form of sexual discrimination. Sexual discrimination—whether it be against men or against women—is illegal. How do we resolve such a crime? There are actually three somewhat conceivable solutions. First, we can make the fee mandatory for all students.

Letters To The Editor

Married students can please their wives, but not their pocketbooks. Coeds will go from a 38 D to a 32 A. We can all suffer the atrocities of shrinkage and loss of garments together—and for only $130 a year. Making the fee mandatory for all is, in my opinion, preposterous. I do not believe that married students have the extra hundred dollars that it will cost them to do their laundry with the college. I do not believe that the coeds will stand for allowing their clothes to quite literally go down the drain. And I do not believe that many males prefer such a service presently—to continue it would not be to their satisfaction.

A second solution is to make the fee optional. After talking with Mr. Cornell, I realize that the college sees this solution as unworkable. Presently, the school loses $6000 a year from the laundry. To keep the losses within such an amount, they must have a guaranteed income from the male students. To make the fee optional for all is taking too large a risk, in the opinion of the college.

The third solution is the only one that makes sense. This solution is to do away with the laundry service at Davidson. The college would no longer lose $6000 a year. The male students would no longer lose around a hundred dollars a year. With the $6000 that is saved, the college could easily provide washers and dryers for all students. These could be placed in every dorm with perhaps the exception of Duke. These machines pay for themselves within a year. (The machines in Watts and Little are already making money for the school.) For dry cleaning, there is a reputable company in town that does the same work for approximately the same price. The bed linen service could also be cheaper. Having checked with Segrest Linen Service in Charlotte, I have found that students would pay a maximum of $15 per year to have their sheets done. This service would involve a change of bed linens for each student once a week. The pickup station could easily be a room in the lower floors of Belk. It could conceivably be manned by work-study students so not even the work-study program would be too much affected by the closing of the laundry.

Don’t think that the third solution is impossible. When I talked with Dr. Spencer about this laundry problem, he indicated that if a substantial majority of the student body wished to abolish the laundry, the laundry would be closed. Granted, that’s no guarantee; but then again, it’s a chance. For those of you who are too lazy to do your own laundry and thereby save $100 a year, then give your dirty clothes—plus a hundred dollars—to me and I'll do them for you. I’m sure that many students will be more than happy to launder clothes for those who do not wish to do their own. And these student “volunteers” will no doubt do the same amount of work for less than what is presently being paid. Early next week, a petition to abolish the laundry will be circulated. Seek it out, sign it—and get the college out of the laundry business.

Lamas Offers Pre-law Plan, Ghigo Suggests Campus Cafe

To the Editor:

Certain required courses are part of each pre-professional program at Davidson, except for pre-law. As a pre-law student, I enjoy the freedom that I have in choosing my own courses and major area of study. At times, however, I do want advice concerning my future career in law. To fulfill this need, I turn to the pre-law advisors expecting to receive up-to-date information on law schools, on my own chances for admittance into them, and on the future occupational outlook for lawyers. I have found that such information is sometimes difficult to obtain. The area in which information is most scarce concerns “my chances for admittance” into law schools. I would like to present a plan which could help pre-law students in assessing their chances for admittance and in deciding where to apply. The plan reads as follows:

The pre-law advisors are responsible for compiling annually a list of all seniors who apply to law schools. The list would contain each student’s grade point average, LSAT score, the law schools to which he/she applied, and those schools at which he/she was accepted. The names of the seniors would not be included on the list. Such information could valuably aid a student in deciding upon a practical portfolio of law schools to which he can apply.

Andrew Lamas ’76
Davidson College

To the Editor:

After reading Jean Molinie’s article in your last issue, I would like to suggest that you get your paper behind a movement to set up an outdoor cafe at Davidson. May I suggest a section of the new Mall between the Little Library and Chambers? The food facilities section behind the banquet room at Chambers could be used for the drinks and snacks to be served outside, on the Mall adjoining that part of Chambers. I call on the President, the Vice-Presidents, Dean Terry, Shaw Smith, Ron Scott, the SGA, the YM/YWCA, the faculty, and the students to get behind this project. If we succeed, we can at least remedy one void in life at Davidson: lack of leisurely conversation and communication.

Francis Ghigo
Professor of French