Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Twelve November 1, 1974

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, November 1:
- All week: Davidson Collection, Stowe Galleries
- All weekend: Video Tape Program, Rathskeller: “Solzhenitsyn” and “Eric Clapton” 8 & 10:30 p.m.
- Popular Film, Love Auditorium: “Cheyenne Social Club” 8:15 p.m.
- Drama Production, Hodson Hall: “Servant of Two Masters”

Saturday, November 2:
- 10 a.m.: Soccer, Emory Soccer Field
- 8:15 p.m.: Drama Production, Hodson Hall: “Servant of Two Masters”

Monday, November 4:
- All week: Video Tape Program, Rathskeller: “Loggins and Messina”

Tuesday, November 5:
- 10 a.m.: Lecture, Paul Lehmann: “The Future Significance of Karl Barth” Hodson Hall
- 7 p.m.: Worship Service, DCPC
- 7:30 p.m.: Debate, Eu Hall
- 8 p.m.: Fine Film, Love Auditorium: “The Jazz Singer”

Wednesday, November 6:
- 7 p.m.: Movie, Love Auditorium: “Don Quixote de la Mancha”

Thursday, November 7:
- 10 a.m.: Coffee and Cokes, Banquet Hall
- 1 p.m.: Scabbard and Blade, Rifle Range: Student Turkey Shoot
- 8 p.m.: Gwendolyn Brooks, Love Auditorium: “A Reading of Original Works”

Friday, November 8:
- 2 p.m.: Scabbard and Blade, Rifle Range: Faculty Turkey Shoot
- 8 & 10:30 p.m.: Popular Film, Love Auditorium: “The Reivers”

---

New Law Opens Records

(Continued from page 2)

Should the bill be ratified next month, there has been self-study on the matter which will continue “to arrive at
specific policies for particular offices—the policies may very well differ in each office.”

Two other questionable matters affected by the law are infirmary records and financial statements. Will the law affect infirmary records,
previously closed to all but the infirmary staff? Also, should a student be entitled to review his parents’ financial records,
such as income tax? “It’s a matter of the right of privacy—a matter between two adults,” Terry felt.

Vince Rabil, a Davidson senior, thinks the proposed law is a “good thing, because you never know when things get
in your record that are false or biased. This would give students a chance to appeal.” He compares it with
actions taken by North Carolina Senator Sam Ervin regarding the “threatening of civil liberties by computerized files—information collected on individuals
by various organizations.” Commented Rabil, “This law seems to be in the same vein.”

Another Davidson student, sophomore Coty Pinckney, thinks the bill is “a good idea,” but doesn’t personally consider the issue “all
that important.” By BILL LLOYD, Staff Writer

If certain recommendations made by the North Carolina Association of Independent Colleges and Universities are acted upon by the N.C.
Legislature, then North Carolina resident students at Davidson may receive up to $400 in financial aid, regardless of need. According
to Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., “At present, the college receives $200 per year for each student who
resides in North Carolina. However, this money is distributed according to need; not all North Carolina students benefit from this
state contribution.” Last year Davidson received roughly $70,000 from the state of North Carolina.

Included in the new proposal for additional state aid is the request to continue the present program of a $200
per year allowance for resident students. In addition to this sum, the Association of Private Colleges and Universities has asked
the state to provide aid for all private college students.

“In high school, it makes sense to keep records closed, but I think by the time a student is in
college, he’s responsible enough to know the contents of his own records.” Quipped Pinckney, “Since I’ve gotten this far, I
think I’d be able to handle finding out my IQ is only 83.”

While the law is due to go into effect in November, certain “unclarified ambiguities” may cause a delay. Until that
date, Davidson will continue to study the possible ramifications of the law, developing specific policies. And when and if the
bill is made effective, Davidson College “will, of course, conform to the law,” Terry said.

---

Senate Reports On Committee Activity

(Continued from page 3)

The college hires should be an ex-pert in the field of Russian history. Secondly, it was suggested that the number
of professors of history be increased. The average history class size is 42 students. The committee is also investigating an
extended authorized add period, increasing course availability for freshmen, foreign studies programs, proposals for year-round use of the college, and
a viable three-year degree program. Senator Mark Rabil reported on the last Athletic department meeting where physical education requirements were
discussed.

Rabil stated that there appeared to be general support for intramural, but not club credit. Also, attendance in physical education
classes was up to 50 percent of the average per capita cost to the state for each student at a
UNC campus. “If the legislation is acted upon, a $400 tuition grant will be given to each North Carolina undergraduate
for the 1975-76 year,” stated Spencer. “For the 1976-77 year, an increased $600 grant would be given,” added Spencer. The
main reason for declining enrollment in the private sector is the increasing difference between tuition costs to students attending public
and private institutions of higher education. Total indifference to the plight of the private institutions may eventually lead to their
extinction, according to Spencer. He views such a prediction as catastrophic. According to Spencer, “The existence of our independent colleges
helps to provide the diversity which has been the trademark and strength of American higher education.”

“The existence, side by side, of state and private institutions has also injected an element of competition which has raised
the level of both,” Spencer explained. In regard to the situation at Davidson, Spencer was more optimistic. “We, along with
all private educational institutions, are having to cope with the rising costs of inflation, but I see no reason to
begin worrying about major financial problems.” The new proposal has been sent to the Board of Governors of the University
of North Carolina. There it will be reviewed and hopefully recommended, and at this time, the proposal will be taken
to the North Carolina Legislature. “I suspect that the number of applications would definitely increase in view of the broadened
availability of financial aid,” said Spencer in regard to Davidson. On a larger scale, the enactment of the association’s proposal
would help to ensure the necessary balance between the private and public sectors of higher education. It is hoped that
this important piece of legislation is approved to secure the future of North Carolina’s private institutions of higher learning.

Victorious (Continued from page 8)

to Etc.’s woes, 25-21. IFT continued to climb as they nailed PAX’s lethargic team, 31-19. SAE #3 nipped Cannon III
in a 32-3 wipe as SAE has a combined flickerball record of 11-1. The #1 E squad rapped ex-powerhouse PDT
#1, 47-25, as the P continued to roam anywhere he wants to. Three-on-three B-ball tourney action has started with teams
like the Pied Pipers, the Gozinyas, and SAE #1 looking very tough. C.A. and Y.B. got to go with the
Pipers to take it in the end. But three-on-three is a short game where who is hot usually wins. Whoopee!

10% off on all parts to Davidson Students (w/I.D.)

We are your COMPLETE Service Center

Mooresville

Inspection

Subs--Pizzas--Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers--Cold Draught
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7-9:30. HAPPY HOUR — 7-9 Tues. - Fri.
