FOUNDING FATHER  
By MATTHEW COVINGTON  
Asst. Managing Editor  

It has been 60 years now since that good ship, THE DAVIDSONIAN, amid gloomy predictions as to her final ruin, and enthusiastic wishes for a safe and prosperous voyage, was first launched on the troubled seas of college life. It has been 60 years too, since the Conklin self-filling fountain pen and Crash Suits. It has been 60 years since the night of March 18, 1914, when the Davidson Student Body voted for the establishment of a weekly newspaper, to be edited by the Junior class member who conceived of the idea, Frank Wilson Price.

Price’s death on Jan. 12, at the age of 78, was not a shock. He had been ill for many years with Parkinson’s disease. His death was instead somewhat of a tragedy. This is not a story on his death; that story has been documented in many papers and in many countries. It is instead a story of his life which touched many in this country and in China.

The Davidsonian  
March 15, 1974

Price was born in the Kashing Chekian province, Mainland China in 1895. His parents were then missionaries. He came to this country in 1911 to attend Davidson College. He received a B.A. as a member of the class of 1915 and went on to receive his M.A. from Columbia University. He also was awarded Bachelor of Divinity and Ph.D. degrees from Yale. He returned to China as a missionary in 1923, to remain there until 1952. During the years 1947-1949, Price was under house arrest in Shanghai. His time in incarceration was spent translating the works of Sun-Yat-Sen and Chiang-Kai-Shek. Price also translated a number of hymns of the Chinese Church of Christ into English. A number of these can now be found in the “Presbyterian Hymnal.” He visited the United States a number of times for special occasions and gave the Davidson Baccalaureate Address in 1944. He returned to the U.S. in 1952 and became Moderator of the Presbyterian Church U.S. in 1953.

He served in this capacity for a year before returning to an active ministry in Virginia. Later, he became a professor at Mary Baldwin College and remained there until his final retirement in 1966.

As the first editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Price was faced with a number of problems, one being naming the new enterprise. W. H. Neal suggested Davidsonian and won a free subscription for his effort. Other names considered were: The Davidson Toret, Topics, Life, Forum, News, Red and Black, Messenger, Weekly, Observer, Haka-Raka, Hummer, Electron, Tattler, Echo, Spirit, Oracle, and the Blue Stocking. Price selected THE DAVIDSONIAN feeling that it “is inclusive of everything at Davidson, every phase of college activity, Davidson spirit and the community. It is the name, moreover, of every Davidson student and alumnus and as their namesake should be supported by all.” Price wrote, “THE DAVIDSONIAN was begun as much to cement the alumni to the college by keeping them in close touch with all its doings.”and progress, as to create and increase spirit and unity in the student body.” As a new editor, he was concerned from the start with improving his paper and asked for constructive criticism often. In an early editorial he wrote, “If you don’t like our paper, tell us so and tell us why. If you do like our paper, be sure to tell us that too, for the life of an amateur journalist is one of trials and tribulations and we are in need of whatever encouragement we might receive.” As with any new thing, THE DAVIDSONIAN came under fire, surprisingly from another publication of the college. In the April 1914 issue of the Davidson Magazine, a forerunner of the Miscellany, the fledgling newspaper was blasted. Such a thing should have led to all-out war, with the weekly newspaper having a definite advantage over the monthly magazine. It did not. Price commended the magazine for a good issue and defended his own enterprise with these words: “As for the concrete instances of the need of a weekly newspaper, it might be interesting to compare the last page of the Davidson Magazine with the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN which appeared on the same day.” Price's first editorials were naturally concerned with winning support for the paper he had founded. He later wrote on such topics as “How to rid Davidson of mosquitoes” and the then poor, now defunct geology museum on campus, calling it “The Museum of Dirt.” In the original DAVIDSONIAN was an article called “News About Town.” The town of Davidson had no paper and Price felt that it would be useful to include their news with his own. He wrote, “The boundaries of a college do not limit its campus.” “News About Town” was a compelling set of short news items ranging from the fun to the tragic. “Mrs. C. M. Payne, Miss Carrie Hood and Miss Anne Payne spent the day in Charlotte” and, “Mrs. C. C. Mooney’s little child died last Saturday of whooping cough and was buried in Cornelius.” Price was concerned with the “Literary and Athletic talent” of Davidson and referred often to the prospects for such new blood in the freshman class. His main concern for Davidson was its scholarship. He wrote, “A campus in the summer is like a beautiful corpse; a spacious green campus might be a delight to the eye but it lays no mighty grip upon a man.” Price was a peaceful man, allowing his words and actions to win himself this acclaim. He was all for Davidson where an athletic contest was concerned, even to the point of having 100 extra copies made of THE DAVIDSONIAN that reported a scoreless tie with Clemson “on the gridiron,” but he never missed a chance to compliment these same schools when he could. His concerns broadened with his horizons and he said on a number of trips to the U.S. that “The East looks to the West as an example; we must give it to them.” Price would suggest that we begin our lives as examples and thereby continue the tradition at Davidson.