By JOE EARLE
Senior News Editor

The faculty’s ad hoc committee on registration will meet sometime in the next week to consider revisions in the present course registration system.

The committee is considering three registration plans submitted in the past week by faculty members and will recommend a new system to the Educational Policy Committee (EPC).

The committee solicited registration proposals from faculty members last week. Friday was the final date for submission, and Burts said the committee has not been able to meet to discuss the latest proposed plans.

The plans to be considered are:

Plan No. 1: This is the “inverted tennis tournament” plan designed by Locke White and others. This plan is essentially an alternate course scheduling system where a student would have the chance of setting up alternate course schedules for himself and be allowed to account for popular courses he sought filling up. A student would turn in his first course preference and probably one alternate, and then wait to see if he got that course.

The results of the first selection would be posted in various places around campus, and a student would be able to see whether or not he got his first choices and what other options were available. If he got his first choice and...

President Warns Against Dorm Pinch

By CHARLES KENNON
Asst. Managing Editor

This subject was addressed by College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

The letter was prepared in conjunction with Dean of Students Will Terry, Director of Housing Scotty Nicholls, Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr., and Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White. It is a careful study of the numbers involved in the housing problem and concludes with a list of possible short-run solutions.

Butner’s letter estimates that next fall, there will be 867 students, including regular Davidson students, International students, and those coming on exchange programs. There are plans for 6 transfer students, 82 women, and 235 freshmen to be enrolled in September, giving a total of 1190 students who will be studying at Davidson during the 1974-75 academic year.

The college has 1003 beds available in dormitories and fraternity houses, yielding a total of 1003 beds that it can provide in September. This does not indicate any improvement in the present system, as there are 50 students living outside of the immediate campus area.

But the occupation of the Carnegie Building is considered...

(See DORM PINCH, page 12)

Investigation Unearths Sham Dictionary Firm

By MICHAEL TANNER
Editor-in-Chief

An advertisement that has appeared in the last six issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN appears to have been misleading. The ad is one that solicits orders for mail-delivered, cut-rate, library-sized Webster dictionaries and can be identified by the words “Dictionaries Webster” that appear in bold type at the top. Questions involving the ad arose when Director of the Student Store Peter Nicholls noticed a report in a recent copy of the “National Association of College Stores (NACS) Bulletin.” The bulletin quoted a representative of Merriam-Webster Publishers who said, “It’s a spurious Webster, definitely not our product. We believe that the book offered in the ads was published some time ago under another title and now renamed ‘Webster’.”