The Bavtdsonian April 5, 1974

Three Selfish Students Shock Internationals

Seventeen international students have been studying at Davidson this year, and though some will remain here for four years, most will return to their homes at the end of the academic year. Their interests range from English literature to mathematics and political economics. After having spent about seven months at the college, most of them have formulated certain attitudes and conclusions about American society in general and its educational process in particular. This week, eight of them were interviewed and asked to express their opinions and criticisms of Davidson. The majority of them took a very critical stance toward the college and the student life, but none of their statements were aggressive, and all of their criticisms were made in the hope that certain changes could be made. Many of the students that were interviewed made similar observations, and the European students were especially able to reach some identical conclusions. The following interviews reflect their attitudes toward many aspects of the college community.

“At the same time, within that striving for high GPA’s, students really believe that they achieve a lot just by studying in a fairly isolated form in which they fulfill required work and take it for granted that subjects professors present as most important are most important.

“It struck me here that students as well as professors considered teamwork as being inferior to individual work. Social interactions - communications - can be developed in group work, whereas in individual work it’s the same old game of plotting one against the other.

“Social activities are stressed and they are important, but I have noticed that communication and what I call real human interaction does not seem to be a very important part of the social life in Davidson. We need a kind of communication center such as the cafe that has been suggested. At the fraternity parties, for example, the music is too loud and you can't really talk with people. Thus there is no real togetherness,” she said. “On the whole, I wouldn't have liked to have missed my stay here. I have met professors as well as students that have made it possible for me to participate in some meaningful and intellectual discussions. Whether or not these discussions will have any practical result will be shown by time.”

Shaul Saddick, a junior majoring in psychology, comes from Teheran, Iran. He was very concerned about the tenure system at Davidson and said that “the tenure system is absurd - the ‘devout’ Christian requirement is something that I have never seen anywhere. All the schools I've been to have employment practices based on merit. This system dates back to the middle ages. The system requiring religious faith must be changed. What do you do about brilliant people that aren't religious?”

In other matters, Saddick was enthusiastic. He said, “I feel open with the professors here - I like the academics and I'm very pleased with them. The people around here are very nice. They're friendly. However, I wish there were more activities around here.”

Ingrid Gropl, a German student who is studying literature, made many comments that she hoped might elicit some constructive response on the part of students. She said, “The most important thing which struck me is that most of the students seem to take all the values at Davidson for granted - including academic values, traditions, and social norms,” she said. “As far as academic affairs are concerned, students still seem to work for their grades, which means that they are looking forward to graduating from Davidson with as high a GPA as possible. Their motivation for learning is mainly concentrated on their future (getting a good job with enough prestige).

Eric Saxgard from Sweden is taking mathematics courses, and he was interested in the state of human relations on the American scene. He pointed out that European students don’t see a difference of black and white between Europe and America. There are similar problems in Europe. He commented, “I am not pleased with the individualist attitude of not caring for other people. It’s something in the American way of looking at success. The one that is successful uses his elbows to get ahead.”To the top. They don’t care about other people. “If you meet persons on campus, most of the time you'll find that they don't have time to talk. They care more for their studies. A person needing help would really get hurt; people wouldn’t leave their studies to help another person. You'd find less of that in Europe. Students shouldn't take study pressure as an excuse not to relate to other people.

DELLI is a lot more open than in France. However, I wouldn't have liked to have spent four years here. A Pakistani student, John Aftab Alam, was very impressed by the campus community, but he thought that the “academics at Davidson suppress your social life.” He noticed an apathy in the administration toward student problems (such as the ARA situation). Like the other international students, he noticed a tendency in Davidson students of very transient human interaction. “You meet a student going to the library, you talk to him for a few minutes, and then he says ‘I've got a big test,’ and he walks away.” In spite of his criticism, he was happy to have been able to come to Davidson.

Another Asian student shared the opinion of Alam and others concerning student attitudes. He said, “Before I left my country I felt that Americans would be ‘open-minded, friendly’ people, and I think that that is true, especially in Davidson. During my stay here I have met some nice, friendly students, but on the other hand, I also had some experiences where I felt isolated and rejected.

“Most of the students seem to take all the values at Davidson for granted - including academic values, traditions, and social norms. My personality has developed a lot here. It is a very good experience for young people to go abroad. You can see your own country in a different perspective. I'm very thankful that I could come here.”

One of the French students at Davidson, Jean Molinie, was interested in the effect of competition on human behavior. When he first got to Davidson he was struck by the materialism of the community. He said, “It’s hard to believe that those big cars around here belong to students when you compare them to the little ‘deaux chevaux’ (two horse cars) that they drive in France.” The competitive attitude among the students bothered him. “The competition is not the best principle to bring peace and good human relationships into the world. Work pressure prevents people from relating deeply. International students shouldn't have to do the same amount of work as the Americans because they could just as well spend their time in a library at home.

“If we go to another country it’s to try to understand the people of this particular country and to experience things that we couldn't find in books. I think that students should be able to work in little groups because of the fact that you can learn so much in discussing with other people. It’s also good preparation for life in society.

“I have really enjoyed my year at Davidson. I appreciated being able to meet the president of the college and to be able to talk with him as with a friend. People say ‘hello’ and ‘how are you,’ but they really do not mean it. It seems they don't want to have contact or get involved with others whom they think have different backgrounds and beliefs than themselves. I also can't understand the contradiction between ‘freedom’ and ‘conservatism.’

“The academic atmosphere is really excellent. The classes are much smaller than the ones in my university at home. There is not the communication there that Davidson students and teachers have.” He concluded by expressing gratitude for being able to come and said, “I hope it’s one of the steps toward mutual understanding between the U.S. and our country.”

Another international student was impressed with the academic life at Davidson, but he was highly critical of the advice and guidance that was given to international students. All of the visiting students were interested in the nature of social interaction among students, but they could find no specific reason for the bad state of relationships. Some pointed to the academic pressure, and others pointed to the environment. The need for more student independence and self-reliance was also mentioned.

Story by Cook
Photos by Goodman