Four March 29, 1974 The Davidsonian

The Evolution Of Davidson Part I

But the biggest change in Union activities was forced by the leveling of the old building. I have begun to
see this as a blessing in disguise for two reasons. First, the Union board is oversensitive about not having a
place to operate and has begun to organize more visible events. Second, the lack of facilities has forced the Union
to move programs closer to the students by doing things all around the campus instead of in one building.

These changes have been going on slowly and are unnoticed by most students. And Union programs still have a way
to go before they are really adequate for the social needs of all Davidson.

By JOE EARLE
(Ed. note: This is the first installment of a six-part article focusing on varying aspects of a Davidson education over
the past four years. Each installment will be the work of a different Davidson senior.)

Davidson is growing up. The physical evidence of our growth can be seen all around us every day. The new
library looms up behind Chambers. Three fraternities have been converted to quick food eateries. Dorms have been converted to house
female additions to the student body. And several houses on Main Street now are the winter homes for a good
number of students.

The second major change (after coeducation) that every senior has seen from beginning to end is the new fraternity system.
It started when we were freshmen and it is just now beginning to settle down. I think the change is
the healthiest thing that ever happened to DC social life. The frats are a lot more open than they have
ever been. The number of parties has increased and the interaction between houses has increased.

Also, open parties have meant that students don't have to belong to frats to have a social life (even though
it still helps). The frats now are much more interested in freshmen than they were four years ago. There is
more diversity among the houses than I remember. Also, the Patterson Court Council and the Council on Social Organizations (ignoring
their political decisions) have helped foster a social feeling among the houses. The houses are not as divided or competitive
as they once were.

But the biggest change I see is in the nature of the student body. Students now are, for lack of
a better word, more sophisticated. They are more interested in enjoying themselves while at school. The stereotype of the hard-working,
library-oriented Davidsonian is dead for all but a few. People still work, but only a few work themselves to death.
When I was a freshman, upperclassmen I knew spent most of their time studying, watching TV, and playing poker at
the frat house. Students now seem to finish up their studying and then go relax. We are not as aggressive
socially as our immediate forbearers. The Thursday night pot party has replaced the Thursday night poker party. Beer and conversation
have replaced TV. And I feel that students are more interested in talking to each other than they used to
be.

Characterizing this revolution in a few words is not easy. Metaphorically I would say that in my four years the
average Davidson student has changed from Charlie Brown to Michael Doonesbury.

The image is appropriate, I think. Charlie Brown is the archetypal underachiever. He seldom has fun at what he tries
to accomplish, but he tries anyway. He has to go clear across town to find a girl (Peppermint Patty). He
is frustrated in school and his teachers are people to awe -- bodiless voices who do little more than confuse
students and make assignments.

Doonesbury, on the other hand, has a hell of a time at college. His friends live all around him. They
are a diverse crew and Mike -- even though he is certified a turkey -- can find a place for
himself in the community. Even though teachers are to be feared -- they are still people and as screwy as
the rest of us.

This is the kind of change I have seen in Davidson since I was a freshman. The growth of a
community that has begun to amuse itself, to turn inward for entertainment, instead of continually looking to the outside. Davidson
has stopped being a place to leave and has become a place to live. And a student can have a
lot more fun here now than he could four years ago. The most visible reason for thisChange is coeducation. The
arrival of girls on the campus has certainly done more for student life than anything else. Metaphorically, I would say
that in my four years the average Davidson student has changed from Charlie Brown to Michael Doonesbury. It has changed
the whole character of the institution.

So much for the rosy side of the picture. Along with this new easiness of attitude has come a degree
of social apathy. Students are less aggressive than they used to be, but they also seem to be less interested
in a good deal of the entertainment that is available. This is not only because women are physically present, although
that has a lot to do with it, but because of these women, people now are willing to take more
chances. The school has loosened up a great deal. Attendance at Hungry I's (especially on weeknights) is down. Attendance at
major concerts and speakers is down. But more people seem to be going to weekend movies, parties, and small concerts.
This means that dating is not the mystical experience that it once was. We don’t have to wait until Friday
or Saturday to talk to a woman. We don't have to play Charlie Brown-Peppermint Patty anymore. The union has begun
to have parties on weeknights instead of just the weekends. Male students don’t start thinking about a weekend date on
Monday night like they used to. Girls are around every day.

Another reason is the change in the Union. It has become more active socially. Groups like the Black Student Coalition
and the Dorm Social Council have gotten into the social picture along with the Union Social Council, and more is
being done on a regular basis. The Union, by both choice and necessity, has turned away from the major concert-dominated
social activity toward providing something every weekend. The open bar has given people a place to hang out at irregular
hours.

The basic reason for this is that everybody attended big events four years ago while only a few went to
small ones. Now it seems that each event draws its own audience and each audience comprises a different sector of
the student population. Again, this points to the death of the suitcase school. More people are staying on campus to
enjoy the weekend activities that exist, and simultaneously students are becoming more selective in their entertainment. With more to choose
from, they are being more selective. Like Doonesbury, we may all be turkeys, but now we choose which gaggle we
want to associate with.

To my mind, all these changes add up to one thing: life at Davidson College is a lot better than
it used to be, and it is getting better every year.

(Staff photo by Goodman)

There are still a lot of holes in the social picture. Even though the coeds have been a tremendous source
of energy and activity for the social life here, a number evidently still do not feel they are properly integrated
into Davidson life. Even though freshmen get more fraternity attention now than ever, they still are not well integrated into
the activities of the court.

The Union still has a lot of problems, both in suiting student tastes and meeting basic manpower requirements. Two of
the three top offices on the board were uncontested in the last election and most of the positions on the
Board are one-man committees. There is no effective Social Council. But even with these problems, I feel optimistic. The college
community is getting closer knit each year and more students are participating in areas of campus life that had been
ignored. Student interests are diversifying and established groups are slowly adapting to these interests, and new groups—such as the BSC
and the Outing Club—are forming to start new programs.

Perhaps it is only the maudlin sentimentality of a senior, but I feel that more students are interested in making
Davidson a livable place. And it is slowly becoming just that. Davidson may not have all the positive features of
Walden Commune yet, but we are working on it. We are a damn sight closer than we used to be—Davidson
is becoming a good place to live instead of a good place to leave.

Vereen Bell Award

Fred Chappell, poet, novelist, and writer-in-residence at UNC-C, will present the Vereen Bell Award for creative writing Tuesday at 4
p.m. in the Perkins Auditorium. The winners and other ranking contestants will be announced at this time. Students are encouraged
to read their works, hear the works of other students, and talk informally with Chappell on Tuesday night at 8
in the home of Professor of English James Purcell on the corner of Hillside and Lorimer Streets.
