[or LP Weoewr, CYOES -County Aos-dven, finds Kar oM/ hose (e219 -A07 runs av Bells Areels or Hel/§ Bells, whatever,
have proven to be an unexpected boon as he picks up his verisif, "Din Davieloons’ newest Collegiate sport. LUSTY COED
(Wheee!) ARNOLD ARNOL MERON PORTICO lak | Chale! iCOtar (oink! Orkk!) CHobble! Hobbie!) (La go smuS$sy- olvving /)

Turkey Community Cafes Reduce Campus Centered Loneliness
By JEAN MOLINIE

(Ed Note: This is the first of a series of columns by students examining the quality of emotional life at
Davidson in a seminar with Student Psychologist Meredith Hall.)

What happens to an international student when he arrives in Davidson? First, he is amazed by the cheerfulness people show
towards him: he is welcomed everywhere, everybody says: “hello” or “hi”, or “How’re you doing?”. As anyone in any foreign
country, he starts making judgments about the people of this country: “Americans are really nice!” He meets a lot of
people who ask him about the country he comes from. But little by little, as the days go by, he
becomes more and more conscious that he doesn’t really get to know the people he meets and he realizes that
most of the conversations he has with them are about the weather, the last basketball game, or how hard the
last test was. His opinion about American people starts to change a bit and he falls into a tendency to
judge and generalize: “Americans are very superficial.” But he knows that generalizations and oversimplifications are often wrong or partly wrong.
So he tries to find another cause to this impossibility to relate deeply to his American friends: “maybe there is
something wrong with me” - “maybe they don’t like me for one reason or another.” But soon he realizes that
the conversations between American students are not that deep either, and the topics not very varied: exams, professors, work, weekend,
parties. Moreover, he notices that the students are always in a hurry to leave the table at the eating house:
“I’m going to the library” - “I’ve to finish a paper.” So, what is wrong in Davidson? I think that
two things are responsible for this kind of situation: the work pressure and the lack of meeting places.

First, the work pressure: the students are racing for good grades, cramming for their exams as if their only purpose
was a diploma. They are constantly under the pressure and the threat of the exam. When they have a moment
of rest, they just don’t want to think, to discuss, or to get involved in a deep relationship with anybody;
they just want to release their tension through sport, drinking, partying, and forget everything. This explains why sometimes, at one
o’clock in the morning, students, coming back from the library, turn on their stereo full volume. Is that really a
liberal arts education? Is the purpose of a liberal arts education to form doctors, lawyers, businessmen who are proficient in
their profession but who don’t know and don’t want to know about the rest of the world? Or is it
to form broad-minded people who feel responsible not only for their business but for their country and the whole world
as well (which is becoming more and more necessary), and who are aware of the importance of human relationships?

When Americans come to France, they are amazed to see the amount of time French students “waste” in striking, demonstrating,
hanging around “cafes”. But is it really a waste of time? Do you think French people go to “cafes” only
to drink? Most of the students who have been on the J.Y.A. program say that they have discovered something, but
they don’t know what it is. Maybe it’s just that one doesn’t learn about life only in books. Maybe, discussion
and relating to other people on a deep level are very important to education. So, what to do? There are
these possibilities: If this situation is due to the mentality of American society, in general, it’s just a matter of
misunderstanding between Americans and international students, and there is not much to do about it. If it’s a matter of
work pressure, there are, maybe, means to reduce this pressure, and at the same time, keep the high academic standard.
If it’s a lack of meeting places, there is perhaps an opportunity to organize something in this field.

I’m not proud of France or Montpellier University, but there is at least one thing which seems to me better
there than in Davidson: the meeting places. We have “cafeterias” where you can go at any time (after lunch or
between classes, for instance), and where you are sure to find somebody to talk to. I think that Davidson is
really missing such an institution. And I’m not talking only of the College. I sincerely hope that the atmosphere in
the college will change in the future and that people will have the opportunity to talk not only between two
mouthfuls of hamburgers!

Alan Blakley
The Davidsonian
March 15, 1974
Nine ... Faculty Studies CalendarRevision (Continued from page 8)

At Dartmouth, many students are accelerating their academic programs in order to finish their undergraduate studies early. Others are enjoying
career-service experiences during the fall, winter, or spring terms which would not have been possible during the summer due to
the lack of employment opportunities then. Dartmouth adopted its present calendar basically as a means of becoming fully coeducational. Even
with its very substantial resources and its generous constituency, the college did not want to have to invest in enough
additional housing to accommodate more than a thousand women students. By moving to a year-round calendar Dartmouth expects to be
able to expand its enrollment from 3200 to 4400 students without adding significantly to its present facilities.

The experience of Dartmouth would seem to be directly relevant to Davidson in a period in which we are trying
to expand our enrollment to make room for women students without the means to expand our facilities to the extent
which is required. Interestingly enough, all four speakers, Dr. Gregory Prince, Assistant Dean of Faculty at Dartmouth, Dr. Joan Stark,
Assistant Dean of Faculty at Goucher, Dr. William Stephenson, Chairman of the Educational Policy Committee at Earlham, and Dr. John
Satterfield, Vice President for Academic Affairs at Kalamazoo, commented that some form of year-round operation seemed to be the most
attractive option for Davidson. Year-round operation would ensure that this beautiful and well-equipped college would be more fully used than
it is at present. It would enable us to expand our enrollment without building more dormitories and eating facilities. It
would give us a flexibility which is not possible once permanent physical structures are built. We could always return to
a conventional calendar if there were no longer a need to make room for additional students. Since much of the
administrative, secretarial, and custodial staff is employed year-round anyway, it should make for greater efficiencies in the operation of the
college.

At the same time, a year-round calendar would involve certain difficulties. Department offerings would have to be spread over the
whole year, rather than nine months, and this would not be easy, especially for small departments. And prospective students might
not like the idea of having to be here for one summer or possibly two. But the Dartmouth plan has
a good deal to recommend it, particularly at this juncture in the history of Davidson, and deserves to be seriously
considered. Of course, whatever calendar is adopted for Davidson must be adapted to our own needs and conditions and must
be acceptable to the members of our own academic community including those who teach and those who learn.

Paducah Rationale Siphons State Petrol Allocations

Paducah, Ky. has come up with a plan for consumers to make it through the gasoline crisis. Unlike the Oregon
plan, the Paducah plan does not entail buying gasoline on alternate days. The Paducah plan was started by a group
of Paducah citizens calling themselves “People Indignant Over the Gasoline Shortage” or PIGS for short. The PIGS mobilized after the
Kentucky National Guard started practicing an emergency known as the Ethyl Cordon. The Ethyl Cordon was to be used in
the event of the mobbing of gasoline stations by angry consumers.

The leader of PIGS is a young Paducah lawyer named Edsel Smith. Mr. Smith is not a normal lawyer, he
is a gas-lawyer. His specialty is high octanes for large cars. He was instrumental recently in the creation of a
new service at Paducah’s largest bank. This service known as “Hope On A Rough Day” or HOARD for short allows
consumers to rent gasoline storage tanks by the week, month, or year in which they can store as much as
ten thousand gallons of their favorite petroleum products.

The Paducah Plan for Gasoline is a two-pronged attack on the gasoline shortage. The object of the Plan is to
teach consumers how to cut down on gasoline costs while doing as much driving as possible. This is an important
service since gasoline costs as much as 70¢ a gallon in some stations around here. Some of the suggestions are:

(1) Try stealing your gasoline. Many consumers never consider this handy and effective method of cutting the cost of driving.
(2) Mix your petroleum. Buy one-third of a tank of plain diesel fuel and one-third of a tank of kerosene
or rubbing alcohol. Of course, the 1/3-1/3-1/3 ratio might need to be altered slightly for your car, but the results
of these experiments can be instructive and surprising.
(3) Put sand in your gas tank. This sand will work its way into the gasoline line and keep the
engine from using it up so quickly.
(4) Buy gasoline only during a heavy rain. You'd be surprised at how quickly your gas tank fills up during
a rainstorm.
(5) Run a hose from the exhaust pipe of your car to the gasoline tank. This helps in two ways.
First, you help reduce pollution and second, you make certain that no unburned gasoline fumes leave your car.

Hopefully, the Paducah Plan, which is available in booklet form, will catch on.
