Gifted Rabbis Provide Christian Assurances
By ALEXANDER J. MCKELWAY
Professor of Religion

I am at a loss to account for the extraordinary honor of having my name attached to this column for
the second time in almost as many months, unless the kindly wisdom contained in the first effort whetted editorial appetites
for more! Not that anyone should have been surprised at the excellence of that article. After all, the By-Laws of
the Trustees (Art. V.7) assure us that the college seeks for "teachers in the Department of Religion persons of vital
Christian faith and of unusual teaching gifts." I have personally always found that comforting, especially when reading some of the
more precocious rejoinders on course evaluation sheets. Of course, that word "unusual" may contain some sinister ambiguity, but all in
all, constitutional definition assuages self-doubt.

In the interest of fairness, it should be noted that, while only instructors in Religion are singled out by the
Trustees for superior teaching, Professors of Philosophy share with those divines the requirement of "strong Christian conviction and character" (Art.
V.7). Thus, however troublesome other evidence, we are constitutionally spared doubt concerning the morals of these two. Unhappily, we are
not given much assurance in the By-Laws for the rest of the faculty. Neither their piety nor pedagogy seems nearly
so well secured. While "professional and personal qualifications" are "reviewed," the only thing we can be sure of is that,
if given tenure, they must be "active member(s) of a Christian Church" (Art. V.6). Well, that’s something. Just what it
is is open to question. It may only mean that a faculty member must be baptized and still on his
feet, and, indeed, that interpretation would appear to have been employed from time to time. Or the indefinite article before
"Church" may point to denominational affiliation. That there is wide belief that this interpretation is used by the administration might
be supported by the rather academic cast of the rolls of our local churches. But I have heard that if
one plans his sabbath mail pick-up strategically between the hours of eleven and twelve, he will encounter, not only Frontis
Johnston and Charlie Lloyd returning from Sunday-school chores in Charlotte, but an alarming number of surreptitious faculty wives, whose husbands,
at least on that occasion, are hardly "active."

If the religious requirement for tenure is not a matter of public churchmanship, perhaps it involves conformity in private confession.
However, we have no reports of faculty being catechized by Dr. Bevan, nor does Dr. Spencer appear to fit the
role of Grand Inquisitor very well. The fact is that there is little evidence of confessionalism at Davidson, and the
faculty here share with most healthy-minded laymen an absolute aversion to theological discussion, even when the issue is religious requirement
for tenure. But perhaps the requirement does assure us of a "Christian" attitude among the general faculty, which, while not
so rigorous as that within the Philosophy Department, does raise the moral level of this campus above that of secular
institutions. Here we may have something. We do seem to have less public drunkenness, fist-fighting, and wife-swapping than some universities.
But size and a lack of anonymity may operate here as much as Christian virtue. And when it comes to
the larger moral issues of war and peace, honesty in government, racial justice, and concern for the poor, some may
doubt that we can claim the superiority the By-Laws would give us.

These difficulties in interpreting the present religious regulation should not be taken to mean that no assurance at all may
be derived from them. That is manifestly not the case. For instance, we can be sure that we will have
no Jews on the permanent faculty. Nor, for that matter, will we have any limited orient. Just as important, we
can be sure we will have no avowed (which are the worst kind of) atheists, agnostics, or radical non-conformists. And
this is just as well, for the one Christian Marxist we have is troublesome enough. Better to avoid the irritant
of strange, pushy types who might cause us more frequently to reexamine the faith we espouse.

Apparently not content to let well enough alone, some faculty and students have called for the elimination of the religious
requirement, and the Executive Committees of the Trustees and Faculty have been studying the question. From all indications, a rather
nice solution has been achieved whereby we can have our cake and eat it too. Evidently, provision will be made
only for the "rare" exception. Now lest anyone fear that a flood of heathen will force their way through even
this small opening, be assured that adequate defenses have been set. Any non-Christian would have to give special assurances that
he ascribes to the stated "Christian" purposes of the college - a neat trick at best. Furthermore, such a one
would be hired only if...he has some special academic skill unobtainable elsewhere. Since there is no conclusive evidence that Christians
are less intelligent than other men, and since, in any case, a liberal arts curriculum needs little specialization, it is
doubtful that such a “rare circumstance” would appear very often - if at all. But even if the faculty were
to agree to such a plan, and even if the odd non-conformist were to obtain tenure among us, we would
not be without protection. The Jewish scholar, for instance, could not really fit in very well. He would always be
an outsider. He would know that his Jewishness was not welcomed, indeed was only tolerated, because of some technical skill
we could not afford or find elsewhere. Of course, he might wonder why, if we really have such religious scruples,
we are willing to set them aside for such penultimate concerns as professional specialization. But no doubt he would soon
understand the practicality of Christian communities, and, what with public pressure and a bit of luck, he might even convert.
Thus we may yet preserve the homogeneous and untroubled atmosphere we love so well. And this is all to the
good. For if the Christian community (the body of Christ) is not to avoid the dangers of the world and
play it safe, what should it do? If it is not a matter of self-protection and self-preservation what is it?

Good Friday, 1974.

Pyromaniacs Lead Mini-Holocaust

The first annual Davidson mini-Holocaust was held last weekend at the center of the college’s football field. The event was
instigated and sponsored by two young upstarts, Henry David (or was that David Henry?) and his fine friend Nathaniel. Nathaniel
had previously mentioned something about a bonfire, and immediately the Social Council contributed two hundred pounds of stale marshmallows to
the young men’s project.

“Look fellows,” protested Henry David, “you've got Nate and me all wrong. This is an old fashioned busk, or more
originally from the Greek Indians, a puskita. We figured it was high time we held a Festival of first-fruits and
I mean, what with Spring leaking all over the place and us poor Davidsonites being balled and chained to our
desks, it’s no wonder we're running around doing a St. Vitus Dance! It’s time we switched over to the ‘Green
Corn Dance,’ forgive everybody everything, and then, BURN all our accumulated crap. Sort of like a spiritual and physical spring
cleaning, you know.”

Last week both Henry David and Nathaniel worked diligently preparing for the three-day ritual which began last Friday and did
not end until late Sunday night. They stamped down a 75-foot square of ground until it was hard and clear
of vegetation. Next, they built three arbors of dogwood blossoms to the west, north, and south of the square. The
fire, itself started in the center of the earth-patch, was procured from an old Creek or years long to light
such fires from his eternal flame carried with him in a little earthen pot.

The Davidson campus made an admirable, and therefore unusual, showing at the event. Following the true Creek tradition, the “Chiefs”
or faculty and administration took their position around the western arbor. The common “warriors” or freshmen, sophomores, and juniors lolled
around the northern arbor; and stationed at the southern arbor were the “Leaders,” or the soon-to-graduate class of ’74! A
rumbling chant rose up almost spontaneously from all three factions: “Burn the refuse! Burn the refuse!” (Ed. note: “Refuse” has
here been inserted for the less decorous word actually climbing over their arbor and producing frenzied green-corn dances around the
blaze. When one naive freshman tossed in several bags of grass he found lying beside the arbor (perhaps left over
from the brown square of earth!!), the group became even more happily spirited.

By far the most zealous pyromaniacs were the seniors or “Leaders” down at the southern arbor. They wanted to burn
the whole school, but had to be content with burning all their old texts, papers, pictures, identification cards, locks of
old honeys’ hair, broken down chairs, and old announcement sheets. The whole affair culminated in the drinking of the peace,
which was done at twelve midnight Sunday in mugs of chocolate milk, and at the end was raking the dregs
and embers. He cut his eyes at me and chuckled. “Hee, hee,” he said, “thee, hee it doesn’t mean a
thing, it doesn’t mean a thing. Renaissance of the soul, my bad eye!”

Spring is here, summer is soon to follow and all good seniors are already burning their bridges behind them. But
hail Davidson! Hail life! Hail all those who do think it means something!

‘Cries and Whispers’ premieres Friday, April 12, Davidson College will present the Academy Award-winning film “Cries and Whispers” starring Liv
Ullmann and Ingrid Thulin. Showtimes are at 7:00 and 9:30 pm. Admission is only $1. Rated “R” (no one under
17 admitted without a parent or guardian).
