Thom Nicoll The Davidsonian October 18, 1974

Five French Institutions Demand Initiative

These are a few incoherent impressions, taken from my year in Montpellier, of what it means to be a student in France. My only excuse for printing them here is that I think that the contrasts between the place of a student in France and at Davidson can be instructive.

To begin with, the rhythm of academic work is entirely different. The French seem to prefer studying small amounts of material very closely. Thus, required reading is much less, although professors suggest many other titles for those who are interested, and, remarkably, many are. French students work consistently, largely on their own, but rarely with the panic-stricken compulsion you often encounter around here. The only time for that in France is when big exams must be faced, such as one for a master’s degree. Despite efforts to “Americanize” the French universities during the upheavals of ’68, neither the students nor the faculties have been able to comprehend, or, perhaps, to stomach the idea of constant supervision, of frequent tests and papers. The students are expected to read and research, but a student in Letters, for instance, usually has to take one exam and to make one class presentation per semester for each course. The rest is left to him. Because of this lack of constant pressure, the students have plenty of time to sit in their cafes and to discuss whatever interests them. Partly because they are French, I suppose, they seem to enjoy “intellectual” conversation more than the typical American student. French students are pushed harder in high school; they are intellectually more sophisticated but socially less adept. This reflects French society in general, which is much more tolerant and appreciative of “intellectuals” than is our society, and which is much more reserved, much less understanding of the kind of back-slapping extraversion we practice over here. The profession of student is more respectable in France than it is here, which is possible.

Letters To The Editor

College Remains Slum Lord, Attitudes Hummel

To the Editor:

Recently allegations were made that Davidson College was operating as a slum lord in the town of Davidson. The college promptly asked the mayor of the town to have all college-owned property inspected. This was done, and the College was informed that all the houses it rents satisfy the town’s housing standards. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and Business Manager Robert A. Currie have both used this report in an attempt to discredit the original allegations and support their claims that no college-owned housing in Davidson is substandard.

Moreover, all is not as it seems. First, according to Mayor Tom Sadler’s office, Davidson “has no housing code.” Passing inspection based on non-existent standards hardly qualifies the College’s claim that the housing is not substandard. Davidson College is dealing in semantics. Substandard and illegal are not always the same. The original accusations dealt in specifics: rats, snakes, broken windows and doors, inadequate electrical systems. Never has any college administration member refuted or even denied these accusations. Clearly, the great “Christian commitment” of Davidson College extends only to legal standards, not human ones. By human criteria, college-owned houses in the black section of Davidson are substandard.

Mark Wilensky ’76 Davidson College

To the Editor:

Davidson: I don’t know why you’re so screwed up. Last night I watched my best friend walk out your front door—leaving this “place of higher learning.” He was the kind of guy that just doesn’t crack or get upset—but you broke him. He was the man that wanted so badly to make his father proud—yet you wouldn’t let him. And now he’s gone. Why? You’ve forced him back to the state school system, maybe back to the job he worked all summer just so he could come here—to the “Princeton of the South.” Bullshit. Your smiling faces are just that. You don’t really care personally. All you care about is making sure his G.P.A. is calculated every quarter. Learning something is secondary. Half the people here are lacking a personality. Not just the professors but the students, too. People are unhappy. Their nerves are terrible. The pressure to make good grades never lets up. It’s so cutthroat. Have you put any real thought into the piece on you that Steve Canterbury wrote in THE DAVIDSONIAN? You should—because he’s right. Davidson, you’d better change. If you don’t, you’re liable to lose some really good people. Listen to Steve’s message. And mine.

Terry Hummel ’77 Davidson CollegeI suppose, a residue of the Middle Ages. The French student plays an established, protected role. Although the universities are always seething with revolution, and although the students have repeatedly proven themselves to be one of the established order’s greatest enemies, the government continues faithfully and generously to subsidize these same students. Tuition for a year is about $20. Room and board, provided by the state, are very inexpensive. And the government will continue to subsidize a student for years and years. The French student is politically impassioned, even more so than the average Frenchman, and that is saying a lot. Propaganda is everywhere, meetings are held constantly, and strikes are called in protest of anything from the price of a meal-ticket to C.I.A. involvement in Chile. (The students are not paying $4000 a year for the privilege of attending the university; they consider it, rather, a part of the state bureaucracy and an arm of state policy. Therefore, they are not so reluctant to disrupt its function.) The French university confines its role in the students’ life to academics. The idea of the self-contained campus with social programs, etc., is non-existent. Therefore, the student actually lives in the “outside world.” They have nothing like our hermetic environment designed to protect us from interruptions, allowing the maximum studious effort. I lived in a 14th-century building, over a pork butcher shop, in the middle of town. My days began and ended with conversations with the butcher and with the smell of his boiling tub of unnameable sausage ingredients. I should point out that all is not rosy in the French system. The universities are all state-run and gargantuan, classes are usually impersonal, professors are distant and difficult to find after class. The posture of most professors is one of opposition, of hostility, to the student. He considers himself an obstacle for the student to surmount and feels the duty to be as unbearable as possible. That does not shock the French kids, however, because they are used to it. Still, the student in France is treated as an adult, as a professional, and he usually behaves accordingly. Admittedly, we Americans are conditioned to our compulsive, compulsory, high-pressure, roll-taking system, and it’s too late to change now. However, after a year as a stranger in a strange university, I have to wonder if Davidson isn’t a whole lot stranger.

Religious Cult Exercises. Strict Meditational Codes

The new religious cult rapidly swept Kingdom Come and soon became the subject of heated debate. I overheard one such debate in a local tavern one night. “The cult of Fizzedd rightly seeks to exalt the human body,” preached one of the recent converts. “There are five basic principles of faith to be learned and dutifully applied, four personal meditative paths and one group prayer meeting. If you wish to follow the true road to the Salvation of Fizzedd, you must begin every morning at six with reverent calisthenics, followed by a thirty-mile run. These are hardships, it is true, but obedience to the tenets of Fizzedd is the only way to true happiness. As more and more converts to the Cult come into the fold we will approach, ever more closely, the establishment of the kingdom of Sparta here and now.” His sermon left his listeners with reverent stares of beatitude on their faces and a holy silence prevailed in the room. The spell was snapped by the voice of a skeptical listener. “This is nonsense. He suggests we indulge in self-punishment, and for what? For some absurd dogma proposed by a mythical prophet. There is no value in these doctrines thrust upon a gullible populace.” A wave of rage surged visibly through the fanatic. “There is only one true Cult and Eywil is its prophet!” he shrieked. He pointed an accusing finger at the doubter. “We will not tolerate dissenters! All who will not accept the five basic principles of faith will be gathered and burned at the stake during the spring festival when all true believers who embrace the Five Ways are accepted into the faith. Eywil Makupas will lead us all into the paradise of Health!” The skeptic remained unintimidated. “Where is this prophet of yours? I assert that Eywil Makupas does not exist; have you seen him? Has anyone here ever seen him?” Murmurs of doubt broke out among the audience, now impressed by the skeptic’s logic. As the fanatic struggled to speak coherently, the listeners began to argue among themselves about the existence of the legendary prophet.