Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Twelve January 25, 1974 The Davidsonian

Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, January 25
Art Exhibit: Dennis Olsen
Stowe Galleries
Ne Ultra and Board of Visitors all day
10 a.m. Phi Hall
8 & 10 p.m. Christian Fellowship
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital: John Shannen
7 p.m. Grievance Committee
NC-PIRG Local Board Meeting
10 p.m.

Monday, January 28
8:15 p.m. Series
7 p.m. Dr. Spencer
8 p.m. Fine Film: Union Planters Bank Documentary Film
Love Auditorium
Hodson Hall
Morrison Room
DCPC Martin Room
Cunningham Room
Worship Service: Love Auditorium
‘Two Daughters’

Thursday, January 31
7:30 p.m. ‘Endgame’

Friday, February 1
8 p.m. Open Dance
10 p.m. Popular Film: Hodson Hall
MIDWINTERS
Chambers Banquet Hall
Love Auditorium
‘Slaughterhouse Five’

Saturday, February 2
8 p.m. The James Montgomery Band & Appleton

Guidelines (Continued from page 1)
Concerned with the new policy would have a chance to cross-examine it so that it could be clearly understood and applied. According to Spencer, those points of the policy that were confusing fell into the following categories: 1) fundraising, 2) allocation of funds, 3) scheduling, 4) relationship to the conference, 5) financial aid and 6) physical education. When he received these suggestions, Spencer conferred with Bevan and drafted a document that covered all of the questions raised. This draft was then circulated among the contributors for further comment. On Jan. 9, Spencer met in discussion with all of those concerned in preparation for the drafting of a final version. Spencer once again assembled questions and comments from the contributors and then drafted the final version of the guidelines document. This, then, is the blueprint for the reorientation of the athletics and physical education programs at Davidson and will hereafter determine how they are to be conducted.

Tankers Post 4-1 Record
By MARK CONNORS
Asst. Sports Editor

Midway through the season, the Davidson College swim team possesses a 4-1 record with some tougher opponents coming up in the next couple of weeks. The swim team, coached by Tom Stevens, has lost only to Furman while winning two contests with UNC-Asheville and one contest with Berea. Standouts to this point have included Jack Doscher, who specializes in the backstroke; Jack Hobbs, another backstroke specialist as well as the premier 200 yd. individual medley swimmer; and John Scholer, who was grade grubbers.

Where did you eat last weekend? If you can remember at all, is it because you were disappointed by it? This column is being created in response to the belief that the average student's repertoire of places to eat in the area is as narrow as his choice of possible careers. I will attempt to introduce you to good yet obscure restaurants critiqued on the basis of food quality, character (as opposed to atmosphere), service, and price. Too many folks suffer under the illusion that the Big Pig’s barbecue is representative of a style endemic to North Carolina. Liberation from this misconception is simple enough since the best barbecue place between Shelby and Hamlet is hidden.Right in downtown Charlotte, good barbecue is heavily influenced by what goes on the plate with it, and the Hickory House on Thrift Road gives substantial testimony to this fact. To begin with, they offer both beef and pork barbecue, pit-cooked on the premises, so that on busy days the restaurant is filled with the aroma of hickory smoke. Along with the barbecue comes real Brunswick stew (not canned Brunswick, Georgia stew), slaw, french fries, and hushpuppies. The french fries, admittedly, are the reconstituted, frozen-in-a-bag type that Americans have come to accept like veneer furniture, but they are not too greasy and thankfully have not been cooked in the same vat with fish. To have been cooked in the Piedmont, the hushpuppies are good; and in fact superior to what most cooks west of the Neuse River are able to produce. The major drawback is the logistical problem of finding the place, and that is where I can be of help. Just take 21 into Charlotte to Morehead Street, and go west on that until Freedom Drive runs into Morehead. By now you should be able to smell the place, so just follow your nose for one block to the intersection of Freedom and Thrift Road on the right, and there on the corner you have it. An average meal will cost between $2.50 and $3, and will leave you with criteria against which to judge any other barbecue you will ever eat.

End notes: Going to the Wake Forest game? Frank Erwin and a host of others recommend Sam’s Gourmet in the Greenway Shopping Center (at the Stratford Road exit off I-40). Their moussaka is excellent, service good but occasionally variable, and prices are reasonable reflections of the food. Coming next week: A restaurant where a full and filling meal still costs less than 75¢ (dessert is 10¢ extra).

— Fedmont Insurance
137 NORTH MAIN STREET - P.O. BOX 2348
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036
PHONE: 892-8054

Where the good things are!
Cornelius, N. C. 892-8468

First Union National.

DAVIDSON chosen the most valuable swimmer for the team last year. Scholer specializes in the distance events. According to Stevens, Scholer is one of the guttiest swimmers on the team. He has a rough stroke but he really works hard. Coeducation has helped the swim team in the person of freshman Susan Reid. Reid, another of the many backstrokers on the team, is the sole female on the team and has scored points in three meets so far this season. Presently, Stevens is trying to clear Reid for eligibility for the AIAW (Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women) which would enable her to participate in the nationals in the 900 yd. backstroke. The Nationals are to be held at Penn State. Other standouts for the team include Peter Alford, premier sprinter for the team, John MacArthur, and Ron Owens, the sole butterflyer on the team. Leading scorer for the team at this point has been freshman diver Ted Mumby. Mumby, who hails from Athens, Greece, is the only diver on the team but has won in every competition faced so far. Stevens made note that although the team has been working really hard, there is a problem this year with depth. He said, “It takes at least 18 to make a good swim team, one that would be comparable to the other teams in the conference. We only have 12 this year and it does present a problem.” The team faces Richmond this Saturday at 2 pm in Johnston Gym.

DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION
Authorized Dealer

THE SHOP
Electronics Unlimited
173 N. Main St.
663-4513
Mooresville, N. C.

PRESIDENT and Country go together like your Banking needs and our friendly service. Everyone DANCES to the tune you call when you come to PIEDMONT BANK. Once you have tried us you'll say CHA or something equally happy. You'll like the service you get here, and you'll go out feeling like dancing the CHA CHA!