The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING." 
-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STYKES, Business Manager

FOUR FEBRUARY 1, 1974

Drop-Period

Next week the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) will vote on the question of lengthening the course registration drop period. Few students know this, just as few students were aware last year that the EPC had shortened the drop period from two weeks to one. Most students do know that the course drop period is presently one week, meaning that the student who realizes he is unprepared for the workload of a particular course after one week has two options open to him. He can continue in the course and possibly fail, or he can drop the course and receive an automatic “F” on his record, as well as losing credit for the course.

The student who decides to drop the course after the one-week grace period finds himself faced with a form of double jeopardy. He has lost a credit and a failing grade on his transcript. And to make matters worse, the “F” incurred from a dropped course is on the student’s transcript to stay. If he later completes the course with a passing grade, the original “F” remains and continues to be computed into the grade point average.

A simple solution to this problem is to lengthen the drop period so that the student has more time to determine if he can pass a course. The faculty are opposed to this. They feel that a student allowed to drop courses many weeks into the term will then compile a transcript that is not a true indication of the work that he has done at Davidson. But a survey done last fall by an SGA subcommittee shows that the great majority of courses dropped and failed are done so during the freshman year. It is most often the freshman who gets into a course only to discover that his preparation has been inadequate and then fails it. And this is not a true indication of such a student's ability.

It seems also that a certain degree of faculty pride figures into their obstinance about the drop period. Professors undoubtedly do not want their class rolls depleted once the term has begun. To this we submit that if a professor is willing and able to spend the time to help and encourage the student and to make his course interesting and stimulating, then he should not worry that students will vacate in droves.

A five-week drop period would give the student time enough to settle into a course after the confusion of registration has subsided and then decide if he is capable of the work, or if the course is as consistent with his interests as the course evaluation handbook might have suggested. On the faculty side of the issue, it would neither disrupt nor complicate a professor’s presentation of his material to allow a student to drop out after five weeks. Indeed, knowing that students could do so might make many professors more conscientious and innovative as it eliminates the captive audience syndrome.

As for the Registrar’s office, its workload would increase only in that it would be expected to keep track of courses for four extra weeks. But how much work does it take to register a dropped course and inform the professor accordingly? We don't endorse an unlimited drop period, but we do feel that a reasonable extension of the present one to five weeks is necessary. Davidson is an institution of higher learning, not a prep school, and students who leave here are supposedly well on their way to becoming responsible adults. Therefore, the college should treat the students more like adults and allow them to use their own judgment to decide which courses to take and which not to take and when the decision will be made.

The members of the EPC are as follows: Bevan, D. Grant, Kaylor, Labban, McKelway, Partin, Young, and students Andy Lamas and John Taylor. If you have any interest in the drop period and would like to see it changed, let these people know that they are not operating in a vacuum. Let them know before they vote next Monday.

Manners

The review policy memorandum that the Academic Vice President circulated through the faculty this week certainly does not apply to the great majority of that group. And to those that it does apply,It has no bearing on their professional ability or integrity, but it does reflect on a sad fact that people have almost come to accept: the erosion of common courtesy. Faculty members are not expected to befriend or to patronize the student, but they are expected to treat him or her as a human being. To accept the job and responsibility of teaching the student who pays his tuition and meets his deadlines and then to hold reviews and papers for weeks on end, with no good reason, is nothing short of rudeness. If the review is to be as much a learning experience as an evaluation device, how can the student be expected to learn from it when he doesn’t see it for half a term? These delinquent professors should take their jobs more seriously. Members of the faculty are due the respect of their positions, but too many at Davidson seem to forget that degrees do not put one above manners.

Faculty Guest Column
Fuller Exemplifies Futuristic Idealism
By ROBERT D. RUTH
Professor of Sociology

"...if the human is to survive on this particular planet, it will be by, as such, a society that evolves to the extinction of humanity through automation in the form of the computer and its comprehensively commanded automation which made man obsolete as a physical production and control specialist—and just in time."

"Automation displaces the automatons."

"Possibly it was this intellectual augmentation of humanity's survival and success through the metaphysical perception of generalized principles which may be objectively employed that Christ was trying to teach in the obscurely told story of the loaves and the fishes."

"We are going to have to spread our wings of intellect and fly or perish; that is, we must dare immediately to fly by the generalized principles governing the Universe and not by the ground rules of yesterday's superstitions and erroneously conditioned reflexes."

When initially approached by THE DAVIDSONIAN to write this week's faculty guest column, my gut reaction was to decline, having considerable difficulty comprehending how I could possibly fit its writing into an already time-crunched schedule. Only after weighing the alternatives of not writing a column on the complexities of R. Buckminster Fuller, several quotes of which precede this article and whose sojourn to our campus will take place on Monday and Tuesday of next week, did I finally—and with extreme reluctance—agree. I say "with extreme reluctance" primarily as a consequence of my strong feeling that it is impossible to do Buckminster Fuller justice in the time and space allotted by any single book, let alone the brief flurry of a newspaper column.

Fuller has been called an engineer, architect, cartographer, mathematician, visionary, poet, social scientist, and philosopher—but his scope and range of dimension go considerably beyond any mere labels that one could cite. Worldwide, he has been recognized as the leader of something approaching a religious movement as well, a movement which has acquired a number of zealous converts primarily as a result of his macro planetary perspective. Grappling with his intellectual endeavors in an effort to achieve comprehension is of considerable importance to the entire academic community, regardless of whether one "hangs his/her hat" in the departments of history, physics, economics, chemistry, sociology, biology, art, political science, philosophy, or religion. Even opponents to his technological transcendentalism still command the greatest respect for him.

It would take considerably more room than exists on this entire page of THE DAVIDSONIAN to even begin to cite Fuller’s major activities, inventions, affiliations, and accomplishments. Perhaps best known worldwide as the inventor of the geodesic dome, his most recent honors include the Royal Gold Medal for Architecture, awarded by Queen Elizabeth on the recommendation of the Royal Institute of British Architects, the 1968 Gold Medal Award of the National Institute of Arts and Letters, and nomination for the 1969 Nobel Peace Prize. A research professor at Southern Illinois University since 1959, he was appointed University Professor in 1968, only the second faculty member to be so honored in that University’s history.

Two times a Harvard dropout (he never did complete college), today Fuller holds four honorary doctorates and has lectured at more than 300 colleges and universities, including most of the leading universities around the world. In 1917 he enlisted in the Navy, and it was here that his first invention was developed.

The famous young husband and wife team Joan Y. and Robert Cowan will be the guest artists appearing with...