May 3, 1974

The Davidsonian

Honors Center Snarls Rocky River Project

By TOM BRUCE
Senior News Editor

Both faculty and students at the newly created Center for Honors Studies admit that the pilot year for the Center's
“Rocky River Project” has been poorly organized and disappointing.

“If the project doesn’t improve a great deal next year, I shall be very disappointed,” stated the Dean of the
Honors Center, Earl R. MacCormac, in an interview this week. “We have had to spend a lot of time raising
money to fund the program and as a result, we have not been able to emphasize the educational aspects of
the program. It has not been rigorous, not nearly enough,” MacCormac stated.

This particular complaint was echoed time and again by students in the Center. One student, who asked to be anonymous,
said: “I have not seen much sign of enthusiasm from the faculty for the project. They do not object to
hearing a report on water pollution read to them over lunch, but very few of them want to go out
to the river itself.”

Significantly, very few Honors Center students stated that they were indifferent to the project. But they repeatedly said that one
of the chief problems with the program was that indifferent students were forced to participate. “Many students who are not
members of the Honors Center would probably be more enthusiastic about the project than some of the present participants,” stated
senior Tom Hartley. “I don’t believe that membership in the Honors Center should be linked with a project that may
hold little interest for some students.”

From the beginning, the Rocky River Project was planned to cut across both the natural and the social sciences, examining
the biological, chemical, economic, and political factors which account for the polluted condition of the Rocky River. The river flows
under Highway 73 less than 15 miles from the campus.

“We are neither as far along as I had hoped, nor as far behind as I had feared we might
be at this time,” stated Professor of Biology David Grant. “We have taken the first steps toward instructing students who
are not science specialists in the scientific method. Next year we can begin to explore the political and economic ramifications
of the project.”

The pilot stage of the project will be completed this summer when the Center hires five student interns. Three of
the students will work in biology and two in chemistry. Their major job will be to compile data relating to
water samples that have been collected along the river. They will earn $800 stipends.

Grant expressed hope that the next phase of the project would be better organized and more highly integrated. “Our activity
this year has been erratic with students at a low profile throughout the year. We have not had any concentrated
study within a single academic term.”

The pilot year has included two sessions with Dr. Ruth Patrick, a noted specialist in studies similar to Rocky River.
Patrick came to the campus twice during the year, once in the winter and once in the spring. “Dr. Patrick
was a brilliant lecturer,” said senior Jeff Manley. “But I was disappointed on her second trip that more has not
been accomplished. Some of the data that she specifically requested has not been collected,” Manley said.

Participants in the project are being given one academic credit, which most of the students have elected to be evaluated
“pass-fail.” “Because the organization this year has been so erratic, I don’t think some of the students are making a
very strong effort,” reported Johnston. “Very few observed the deadline for the one short paper we were required to write,
and I understand that many have still not turned one in, ten weeks after the deadline,” Johnston said.

A number of veteran members of the Honors Center commented that the Project had introduced a new spirit of cooperation
and camaraderie into the Center. “We are doing work together and meeting with people in many different fields,” said senior
Woody Connette. “I think that in years past most people just went their own way in isolation from the Center
as a body.”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE SELF-SCHEDULED EXAMINATIONS SPRING TERM 1973-74

The college calendar calls for exams to be taken May 13, 14, 15, 16. Not all professors use the self-scheduled
described here, so each student should determine definitely the exam...Arrangements for each course. If self-scheduled procedures are used, then the
following instructions apply. Go to the Student Store in Belk Hall and purchase an exam envelope for each of your
courses using self-scheduled exams. Fill in the appropriate identification information on both the yellow and red cards and also on
the top section of the envelope. Give the envelope with both cards still attached to your professor by Tuesday, May
7. The examination envelopes turned in will be available to you during each examination session on May 13, 14, 15,
16. You do not need to specify in advance when you will write a particular exam. Go to Chambers Banquet
Hall between 8:40 and 9:15 for morning sessions and 1:40 and 2:15 for afternoon sessions and ask for the envelope
containing the exam you want to take at that time. The envelopes will be arranged alphabetically by the student’s name.
The yellow card will be detached and retained by the examination staff. Go to any classroom in Chambers Building and
write the exam; please note that room 310 in Chambers is to be used exclusively by students authorized by the
professor to use tables, charts, etc. The envelope with the red card still attached and containing the questions and your
answers may be returned to the examination center as early as 9:45 for the morning and 2:45 for the afternoon
and must be returned before the deadline of 12:15 for the morning and 5:15 for the afternoon. The honor pledge
must be signed at the examination center table as you turn in the exam envelope. The yellow card, now receipted
by the examination center, will be given to you; hold that card until a grade for the course is received;
in case of any irregularity, it is your evidence that you turned in the exam envelope containing exam materials. Each
professor has been urged to take time in each course to present his views on the honor system and to
solicit continuing student support for it.

... Ford Walks On Dean (Continued from page 1) had already sent 19 of 42 tapes to the committee and
special prosecutor’s office. This, he made it clear, sufficed the subpoena, as far as he was concerned. But he admitted
that he thought the White House...

Ford was asked what he would have done regarding the action if he had been President in this situation. He
replied that the only significant difference would have been that he would have turned the transcripts and some tapes over
some weeks ago, instead of waiting so long. Then the Vice-President...

...a very probing question. It dealt with the “I am interested in what the evidence shows,” directed Ford, asserting that
his views had not changed in the least. Senate Report “The truth is the truth.” Toward the end of the
con...

SGA Opposes Absence By STEVE BELL News Editor The by-law was proposed by Senator Bob... constitution and bylaws committee, and
it passed 9-4, with 1 abstention. It stipulates that a senator missing any three of eight consecutive meetings...

In other business, the Senate agreed to loan the APO... request was made by Pete Hotchkiss, who said that the
cash was needed to buy books at the beginning of the term...

At its meeting Tuesday night, the Senate heard a report from John Taylor of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC). According
to Taylor, the EPC is recom...
