Admissions Selects ’78 Class From 1401 Applications
By CHARLES KENNON
Asst. Managing Editor

Notices of acceptance and rejection will be mailed to applicants for admission to the Davidson College class of 1978 on
Monday, April 1. Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White said that a small group had been accepted on March 6
but that the April 1 mailing is the main body of applicants.

“We have already accepted 147 men and 37 women. On April 1, we will accept about 170 more men and
about 60 more women. We're looking forward to a class of 235 men and 88 women,” White explained.

White added that more students are accepted than are expected to arrive in the fall. “We assume that some won't
come, but we have to be careful. Out of the Early Decision batch, we get almost 100 percent; overall it’s
between 55 and 60 percent. Our one year of experience with women is too short to give us a real
pattern, but 67 percent of last year’s applicants arrived this past fall,” he said.

The class of 1978 will be “We have substantially more applicants this year than ever before in the history of
the college,” White continued. “A total of 1401 have applied this year and that is a large increase over the
1108 we had last year.”

Passion Play Premier Portrays
By CHARLES KENNON
Asst. Managing Editor

A Lenten service written by Professor of Music Wilmer Welsh, entitled “The Passion According to Pilate,” will be performed tonight
at 8:15 in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The theme of this passion play is that all people are Pilates.
“We crucified Jesus and we continue to do so each day as we go on crucifying each other. Until we
stop this, we aren’t doing a very good job of being Christians and meeting our obligations,” Welsh explained.

White added that the favorable reception that students have given the play has been encouraging. Five students will compete for
scholarships available for freshmen.

The editors and staff of The Davidsonian will host a staff recruitment party Sunday, March 31, at 10 p.m. in
the Davidsonian office in the upstairs college union. All students interested in joining the staff in any capacity are encouraged
to attend. Refreshments will be served.

Davidsonian Office
Upstairs, The Union
Sunday 10 p.m.

Pilate priest. The Drama Workshop will portray townspeople who shirk their responsibility.

Faculty Critiques Model III
By JOHN COOK
Staff Writer

A survey of fifteen Davidson faculty members revealed a general disinterest with the Model III Constitution proposed last week by
the Trustee Governance Committee. Most of the professors interviewed expressed an attitude of casual acceptance of the document and its
implications for the Davidson College community.

Professor of Religion Alexander McKelway was on the faculty committee that helped draft the model. He was enthusiastic about the
product and summarized his opinions saying that, “it is no revolutionary document.” “There won’t have to be any great changes—the
constitution is a redefinition of old concepts,” added McKelway.

The process of writing the constitution consumed hundreds of hours, but many feel the product is acceptable and that the
adjustments it dictates will not be very extensive. McKelway made two predictions: (1) Under the proposed constitution, “students will have
some knowledge of faculty meetings and consequently, it will raise the level of trust.” (2) The faculty was not completely
enthusiastic about the changes, but they are willing to accept them.but there won’t be a whole lot of negative reaction
to it.” In McKelway’s judgment, “the trustees should keep in contact with the faculty” to ascertain faculty attitudes toward trustee
action. He sees “some possible problems of interpretation” that should be worked out in the future. The faculty is interested
in maintaining its own prerogatives and control of the academic program, according to McKelway. “There is some ambiguity in wording
in the definition of the faculty,” he observed. He noted that the Governance Committee has failed to appreciate this problem.
McKelway concluded that “the constitution needs a careful faculty review. This procedure could give a more predictable government to the
college. The proposed constitution hasn’t disturbed basic weights and relationships.” Among other faculty members interviewed, the consensus of opinion was
that the document had faults, but that it was nevertheless a good piece of work. Professor of English James Purcell
commented, “I am essentially satisfied with the part (of the constitution) that has to do with the role of the
faculty. I will not protest strongly against the definition of faculty.” He observed that “the faculty is the e.” Generally,
he gave his approbation to the model. Professor of Mathematics Benjamin Klein was pleased with the responsiveness of the president
and the trustees to suggestions for change in the Model III document. He feels that “faculty committees should have the
opportunity to initiate changes on their own... The faculty doesn’t have to write the whole budget. They should be reviewing
administrative action.” Klein expressed concern that “the faculty was spending their time doing things that other members of the college
could be doing” under the old constitution. He feels that under the new constitution, there would be a better balance
in the work done by faculty, students, and administration. “The faculty is grateful to the trustees for the work they
did,” Klein concluded.

Of the 12 other professors questioned, 11 had not had time to review the document, and one preferred to remain
anonymous in his criticism of the present situation at Davidson. Professor of History Malcolm Lester offered a terse “no comment.”
Only one faculty member, who also preferred to remain anonymous, offered any real criticism of the document and the atmosphere
of the college community in which it was drafted. He pointed out the number of times the president of the
college was referred to in the model and commented that this was indicative of the model’s orientation. He declined to
elaborate on this statement. In discussing the campus community, he observed that “things are getting very formalized. Personalities and other
sources of power are crystallizing. There was much talk about change,” he said, “but we are actually in need of
more talk about improvement.” The problem that is confronting Davidson is economic in this professor’s opinion and the “publish or
perish” syndrome is pressuring a faculty that must already confront a growing student population. “The growing student body reduces the
amount of time that professors can spend with individuals.” He indicated that the new constitution won't improve things unless the
college becomes imbued with a greater sense of community. “Everyone is working for their own interests now, whereas they should
be cooperating more.” In conclusion, he jokingly remarked that a student body that is concerned with the calendar more than
anything else does not need a constitution to serve its interests.
