The Davidsonian - March 15, 1974

Five

of special meetings, and the procedures to be followed in its meeting are as provided in the agenda for each
Faculty meeting shall be circulated at least 48 hours prior to the meeting. The Faculty is authorized to adopt By-Laws,
subject to Trustee approval, for its organization and proceedings not inconsistent with this Constitution. Administrative officers may be designated by
the Faculty to attend Faculty meetings with the privileges of the floor but without the privilege of voting. Guests may
attend Faculty meetings at the discretion of the presiding officer. The President of the Student Body shall be constantly invited
to attend Faculty meetings with privileges of the floor but without the privilege of voting.

(4) Powers. The Faculty has general responsibility for the planning of the Educational Program and Policy of the College as
defined in Article III.

(5) Committees. Committees of the Faculty shall include an Executive Committee and such other committees as the Faculty may deem
appropriate to the discharge of those legislative powers conferred upon it under the articles of this Constitution. Subject to the
ex-officio memberships and other conditions stated in this section 5, the Faculty may by its By-Laws or by resolution provide
for committees of such sizes, with such qualifications of membership, such terms of membership, and such modes of selecting members
as it deems appropriate. The Faculty may, from time to time, elect special Commissions to undertake tasks which do not
easily fall under the jurisdiction of regular committees, provided that the charge, scope, and tenure of such Commissions are stated.
The President, the Vice-President for Academic Affairs, and the Dean of Students are members of the Executive Committee, with the
President serving as Chairman and the Vice-Chairman of the Faculty serving as Coordinator. The President and the Vice-President for Academic
Affairs are ex-officio members of all Faculty Committees dealing with educational policy as defined in Article III. Students shall be
represented on all Faculty Committees dealing with educational policy, with the exception of items c, e, and j.

A list of the committees of the Faculty with their memberships and brief descriptions of their respective powers and functions
shall be maintained by the Secretary of the Faculty in the College Registry.

(6) Communication with the Trustees. By a resolution of the Faculty or any standing committee of the Faculty, the Faculty
may petition the Trustees for direct action in respect of any matter substantially affecting the fundamental interests of the College.
Prior to submission to the Trustees, the petition must be presented to the President by the Vice-Chairman of the Faculty.
It shall be the duty of the President to transmit such report or petition to the Trustees.

Article III
Educational Policy

(1) Definition of Scope. The ‘educational program and policy of the College’ is defined as consisting of the College’s (a)
curricula, curriculum requirements, and academic standards; (b) international study programs; (c) formal programs for faculty development; and (d) standards for
the initiation and termination of academic departments; (i) determination of requirements and standards of the physical education program, including intramural
sports; (j) determination of the academic standards to be applied in the admission of students.

(2) Basic Responsibility. Responsibility for the formulation and implementation of Educational Program and Policy is reposed, subject to provisions herein
for Trustee review, in the Faculty acting in conjunction with officers of central administration in accordance with succeeding sections of
this Article.

(3) Formulation and Implementation. The President and Vice-President for Academic Affairs share with the Faculty responsibility for the formulation and
implementation of Educational Program and Policy. Recommendations for changes in Educational Program and Policy are made through the appropriate committees
of the Faculty, for legislative action. The President, the Vice-President for Academic Affairs, and such other administrative officers, Faculty, and
Staff members as may be designated by them are responsible for the orderly implementation of Educational Program and Policy adopted
by the Faculty. Any Educational Program or Policy adopted by the Faculty may be submitted by the President to the
Trustees for review and approval prior to its implementation. When any Educational Program or Policy adopted by the Faculty is
under review by the Trustees, the appropriate committee of the Faculty, as designated by the Vice-Chairman of the Faculty Pro
Tem, may submit in writing a statement concerning the program or policy. The Trustees may invite oral presentations concerning the
program or policy. Any Educational Program and Policy in effect upon the effective date of this Constitution is confirmed until
altered or superseded by action under this Constitution.

Article IV
Fiscal, Personnel, and Development Affairs

(1) Definition. The President is responsible for the fiscal, personnel, and development affairs of the College, including the powers: 1)
to institute and carry out personnel policies for the employment, compensation, working conditions, and discharge of academic employees (subject to
provisions of Article X) and non-academic employees; 2) to prepare, submit for approval, and administer budgets; 3) to recommend and
administer the collection and expenditure of student fees and tuition subject to the provisions of section 2 of Article XI;
4) to solicit, receive, and invest funds for the operation and endowment of the College; 5) to employ the necessary
College personnel; 6) to submit to the Trustees and to implement upon their approval proposals for specific action, general programs,
and policies within this area of responsibility; and 7) to maintain adequate financial and personnel records. In discharge of this
responsibility, he is empowered to delegate to other administrative officers specific functions and duties.

(2) Council for Finance, Personnel, and Development.

(a) Composition. The Council for Finance, Personnel, and Development consists of six teaching members of the Faculty and three students
designated in such manner as their constituencies shall determine.

(b) Function. The Council is advisory to the President and his delegated administrative officers in this area of responsibility. At
least three times each academic year, in the Fall, Winter, and Spring at times set by the President, the Council
meets with the President or his delegates to receive reports and to discuss matters of mutual concern.

Article V
Admissions and Financial Aid

(1) Definition. Admissions and Financial Aid are defined as including the conditions for determining admissions to the College, including the
efforts to attract applicants for admission; the selection process; and the determination of financial aid awards.
