May 3, 1974

Three Prison Seminar Observes Pressures

By MARK SCHIEBLER and MICHAEL TANNER

For the likes of Cool Hand Luke, worse than any of the everyday degradations of prison life is the feeling
that society has abandoned him and cares little whether he lives or dies. Many argue that this fact, above all,
is what can rob a man of his sensibilities and render him unable to cope later with the freedoms and
responsibilities outside the fences.

This is the kind of tragedy that many within the North Carolina Department of Corrections and Davidson College have realized
and are trying to remedy at local prison units. For the third year, the Davidson Sociology Department and Professor of
Sociology Robert Ruth are offering a seminar in penology and criminal justice in cooperation with the North Carolina Corrections Department.
Participants in the seminar this past spring were assigned internships at various prison units in the Charlotte area. These units
include the Charlotte, Dallas, and Huntersville Prison Units, the Huntersville Women’s Prison Unit and Women’s Halfway House, and the new
Huntersville Diagnostic Center.

Over the past 10 weeks, interns have met and talked extensively with inmates at each of these correction centers. “The
kind of exposure these students are getting is essential to any real understanding of the workings of the correction system.
I think we all agree that it’s invaluable,” Ruth said.

Jim Plumley, coordinator of inmate activities at the Huntersville Prison Unit, noted that there are those outside who are interested
in them. “It has also shown the community that the Department of Corrections has nothing to hide anymore. We want
to show outsiders a little of what prison life is really like. How else could they ever hope to understand
what goes on here?”

Plumley added that there are also problems in the intern program that are inherent in the entire correction system. “First,
you've got to remember that the people here are so unpredictable, much more than they would be on the outside.
The inmates are under constant pressure and stress, which can lead to unpredictable behavior.”

“This is why some in the corrections department feel it’s wrong to tempt the inmates with things such as the
intern system. And naturally, some inmates just aren't able to handle the temptation after being locked up for so long,”
Plumley said.

Stovall added that, “you can never orient yourself to what goes on around here. You can never take anything for
granted; you'll expect an inmate to act one way and then he'll turn around and do just the opposite. You
get to where you're skeptical, not negative, but skeptical - of nearly everything, and you almost have to be.”

Inmate complaints to the outsiders are commonly of such things as institutional boredom and quick, violent outbursts. Many inmates contend
that strong cliques form, usually along color lines, and that one’s color will go a long way to determine where
he will fit into the yard hierarchy. Others complain that the vibrant energy of the inmates cannot be channeled into
creative expression because of the lack of facilities for this. Stovall says that in his job, he is forced to
walk a fine line between maintaining order and allowing some degree of freedom.fine line, pleasing the state officials and at
the same time, giving the benefit of the doubt to the inmate when he feels it is merited. “All of
us here sincerely want to do the best we can. Sometimes I'll do something and later ask myself why I
did it. Sometimes we get pressured and rushed into decisions that we regret later,” he said.

Currently, VISTA is also operating within many of the local prison units. VISTA Volunteer Tim Lahey has been at the
Huntersville Unit for 18 months. He said that VISTA has tried to help. “We tried this, but it was all
too haphazard. Now, each volunteer is assigned a group of about 15 inmates and is responsible for recreational programs for
the group,” he said.

Plumley explained that there are four graduations of the Huntersville Unit. It is officially minimum security, but the SUNSHINE center
has recently been built on the east side of Huntersville and while men are processed through it, they are housed
at the prison unit. Plumley added that there are three classifications of honor status that will in part determine an
inmate’s custody standing. They are: B status, A status, and Honor Grade. All misdemeanor convicts are automatically classified as Honor
Grade and are taken to minimum security units.

The minimum security unit (Staff Photo By Goodman) Students took to the lawns this week as long-awaited warm weather finally
arrived.

Development Sustains Improvement
By BRUCE CORSER
Managing Editor

Davidson has been notified that it is a finalist for the U.S. Steel Alumni Giving Year Award for the best
level of improvement in giving for the single year '72-'73. This time the $1000 award given by the American Alumni
Council is in recognition of maintaining a splendid performance. The American Alumni Council is a council of alumni administrators and
educational fund-raisers representing 1600 institutions of higher learning. The U.S. Steel Foundation offers the award to encourage alumni to give
through their gifts. This year Davidson was selected for consideration for sustained performance based on the last four years.

Director of Alumni Relations Howard Arbuckle and the Annual Fund said that The Annual Fund experienced a 17 percent increase
this year. Last year’s figure at this time was $165,110 as compared with this year’s amount of $195,764. Donald Winston
called this increase “very encouraging in light of the Queens-Davidson campaign which is also drawing off money. It is interesting
to note that in the last five years the alumni participation in the Annual Fund has risen from 19 percent
to 36 percent and the amount of unrestricted gifts from $160,000 to $295,000.”

The Queens-Davidson campaign has pledges (including potential from church-related campaigns) of $7,296,000 as of April 23. From this amount, Davidson
will receive $4,650,000. This includes a gift of $50,000 to start Davidson’s first pooled life income fund. This is a
fund in which all gifts are co-mingled and the donors receive their share of all income. Winston also indicated that
Julius Melton, Director of Deferred Giving, has raised more than that in deferred gifts. Winston said, “We will continue to...
