Butner Blasts Board Action, Resents Vote Of Confidence
By MARK GERGEN
Staff Writer

In Tuesday’s SGA Senate meeting, the Senate heard reports from three committees and President Blain Butner’s summary of the trustees meeting. Butner first explained the two-part trustee resolution. Of the first part, he said, “I personally thought that that vote of confidence was not called for.” This was in reference to the part which commends College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. for his actions.

Butner began by explaining the action of the Student Life Committee of the Board of Trustees in regard to the issue of yearbook censorship. The trustees deemed the compromise offered by Quips and Cranks Editor Jeff George to be acceptable, and they subsequently referred the matter back to the administration for resolution.

BUTNER

Butner also thanked the students who had spoken to the trustees and added that the final resolution was not what the trustees had led them to expect. Legal resorts have been rejected and the compromise will be accepted. Butner announced that because the student Bill of Rights was delegated to a trustee subcommittee for approval, the new College Constitution and By-Laws will not go into effect until next fall.

SGA Vice-President John Guthrie gave a report on the beer license. “I am disappointed in the trustee decision.” This was in two basic areas; first, that the license won’t be applied for until the end of the second term of the 1974-75 year, and secondly, that it will be given to ARA Slater instead of the College Union. “Shaw Smith wanted to pass the buck, and it looks better if ARA sells it instead of Davidson College,” Guthrie said.

Senior Gus Succop gave the Student Life Committee report, stating that in the last meeting, discrepancies in the Bill of Rights, and off-campus fraternities were discussed. “In the area of off-campus fraternities, it was decided to make it a policy to limit it to two. The problem arose when Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity asked if the college would support their return. “Dean Terry and the rest of the committee members were against this,” explained Succop. The reason for this was past experiences with off-campus fraternities. It was decided not to give off-campus fraternities the use of Chambers Banquet Hall.

Junior Andy Lamas gave a report on the accomplishments of the Educational Policy Committee. Confidentiality of student records is a major area of work. Lamas reported, “We have stopped the general circulation of grade point averages and class rank lists. Secondly, an effort is going to be made to make sure the student body knows of the new law which allows them access to their own records.” That law goes into effect November 17. The committee also discussed the status of the History department arriving at two recommendations. First, it was suggested that the next history professor the (See SENATE, page 12)

November 1, 1974

KANSAS IN NORTH CAROLINA
by Kennon

The experiment of using Johnston Gym for rock concerts was a mixed success. While students enjoyed the informal atmosphere, the noise level was at times excessive.

Avinger Sojourns At Brookings
By BRUCE CORSER
Senior News Editor

Under the auspices of the Brookings Institution, Professor of Economics Robert Avinger explored economic policy-making in Washington, D.C. during a fifteen-month sabbatical leave extending from June 1973 to September 1974. Avinger was one of seven “young academicians” with PhD’s in economics to be awarded a fellowship for the study of economic policy. The first portion of the fellowship consisted of a series of seminars at the Brookings Institution with senior advisors such as Congressman Conable from New York, Director of Economic Studies at Brookings, Directorof the Budget, under Johnson—Charles Schultz, and Director of the Budget under Kennedy—Kermit Gordon. The Brookings Fellows continued to meet regularly for luncheons to discuss various economic topics. They also met with senior staff members at Brookings where they would “toss out topics and hammer at them.” Topics such as the economic implications of gas-rationing Avinger found “enlightening and stimulating.”

Coincidentally, Avinger was in Washington during the course of the Watergate hearings and the consequent Presidential resignation. In fact, he knew several lawyers directly involved with the Watergate investigation and was able to listen to John Dean’s testimony in the VIP section of the gallery. His wife saw Haldeman testify. “As for the Nixon resignation, I had ambivalent feelings,” said Avinger. He and his family, accompanied by the visiting Charles Ratliff, another Davidson College professor, joined the crowd on Pennsylvania Avenue the historic night Nixon stepped down. “It was a seemingly happy situation but this happiness was juxtaposed with a feeling of sadness. It was somewhat of a traumatic experience,” he said.

Avinger described the scene in front of the White House as almost bizarre. “There was a Mardi-Gras type effect and I remember one person holding up a huge plaster likeness of Nixon, almost like the Wildcat head, on a long stick.” During the course of the investigation, Avinger took his only research junket. He described his trip to Oshkosh, Wis. in arctic terms since the temperature was twenty below zero when he arrived. Avinger also wrote a short research policy statement giving the Bureau of Economics' view of the provisions of several pieces of Congressional legislation.

Obviously, Avinger’s time in Washington wasn’t wholly devoted to his professional calling. His research was interspersed with “lots of biking, picnicking, and side trips to New York, Virginia, and Pennsylvania.” His Washington sojourn was a veritable farrago of trips to museums, concerts, and theatre presentations. Nevertheless, Avinger maintained that he still had “much more time to pursue economic research than I do here.”

He described the neighborhood in which he lived in glowing terms. Numerous economic scholars, including Dustin Hoffman’s brother, were scattered throughout. Joe Howell, former Davidsonian and author of “Hard Times on Clay Street” was one of Avinger’s neighbors in Washington. He also befriended Sam Smith, editor of the “D.C. Gazette,” a liberal alternative newspaper in Washington. Avinger termed his year “profitable, stimulating, and fun.” With plans to return to Washington next summer to do more research, Avinger asserted that he hopes to use the Brookings Institution and the FTC for his studies. “I have a continuing professional and personal interest there,” he said.

Debaters Anticipate (Continued from page 2)

The debate team at Catawba for a novice meet. In this small statewide tournament, the team of Randy Sherrill and Nancy Northcott won all three of their debates for a complete sweep. The following week saw a sweep of six consecutive debates by the team of Smith and Sherrill at UNC-Wilmington. In a meet at Wake Forest last week, the debaters were disappointed overall, but managed to win debates from William and Mary, George Mason, Roanoke, and Emory.

“The two varsity teams had an absolute debacle,” in Mitchell’s words. Tony Snow and Peyton Marshall had a 4-2 record, and Mitchell and Gordon Widenhouse went 3-3. Marshall felt that the economics case that the sophomore team ran was misconstrued by the negative teams and misunderstood by the judges. “We got screwed,” Snow added. The remainder of the season is crucial because it will include a number of chances for individual performances. These individuals are important for they are the basis for a large part of the points used in ranking teams.