The Vol. LXIII, No. Twenty-Three
Navistar
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson, N. C. 28036
April 19, 1974

Students Favor Optional Laundry
By PAUL WELCH
Staff Writer

The results of Tuesday’s Senate referendum on four issues of college policy indicate a strong student desire for major change.
The issues considered were the future of the college laundry, the yearbook, the present P.E. requirement, and the desirability of
an evening exam period. The questions asked on the referendum sheets were drawn up by four separate Senate committees, each
of which is currently studying one of the above-mentioned areas. General information concerning each of these areas was distributed among
the student body in the form of fact sheets before the polls opened in order that the students might make
more informed choices. One result of this advance information may be seen in the fact that nearly 500 students were
polled. This is an unusually high total for a referendum of this type.

The results reveal that 92 percent of the students polled are against the total abolition of the college laundry service.
A 3 to 1 majority would like to continue to use the laundry’s sheet and shirt services, while only 40
percent said they would use it for all cleaning needs. However, 80 percent of the students responded favorably to eliminating
the mandatory laundry fee. Approximately the same number favored the installation of washing machines in the dormitories.

The referendum section on the future of Quips and Cranks was included to provide the yearbook staff and funding authorities
with feedback on students’ interests and opinions. Most students indicated that they felt funding for this publication from their fees
should remain within the range of $8 to $12 per person. Respondents were evenly divided on the question of whether
the book should come out in the spring or the fall, but were overwhelmingly in favor of retention of the
present system of “candid” senior pictures. Apparently, students also approve of the present system under which Quips and Cranks, THE
DAVIDSONIAN, and The Wildcat Handbook are published separately. They voted 410 to 59 to retain this system rather than adopt
the publication of a “combined Multi-volume,” containing all three. Most of the students polled also favored the inclusion of at
least a few pages of color in future yearbooks, as well as more coverage of extracurriculars and the addition of
more candid shots of campus and student life.

Awards, Music Accent Convocation Exercises
By WAYNE GULLEDGE
Staff Writer

The Annual Spring Awards Convocation, second of the three official academic functions of Davidson College, will occur at 11 a.m.
today in Love Auditorium. In addition to the awards, which will be presented to students, honorary degrees will be conferred
upon two Davidson alumni. Performances will also be given by the brass ensemble and by the male chorus. Awards to
be given will include the David Howard Chemistry Award, the Sandy Black Memorial Award for outstanding work in premedicine, the
A. K. Phifer Scholarship for work in economics, the George L. Gladstone and Agnes Sentelle Awards for leadership and academic
achievement, the Tommy Peters Memorial and Thomas Sparrow Awards for excellence in intercollegiate athletics, the Richard Ross Memorial Music Award,
and the Vereen Bell Award for creative writing. Omicron Delta Kappa, an honorary service fraternity, and Delta Sigma Rho-Tau Kappa
Alpha, honorary forensic fraternity, will induct new members. Several graduate fellowships will be announced during the ceremony. Receiving honorary degrees
will be Air Force Secretary John...L. McLucas and Kurt Biedenkopf. McLucas, who graduated from Davidson in 1941, has been chief
executive officer of the MITRE Corporation, has served as Deputy Director of Defense Research and Engineering, and has worked for
NATO. He has earned an M.S. in physics from Tulane University and a Ph.D. in physics from Pennsylvania State. Biedenkopf,
the featured speaker at the convocation, was at Davidson as an international student in 1949. He now occupies the second
highest position of the Christian Democrats, the West German opposition party. The conservative politician is a past president of Ruhr
University in Bochum, Germany. He has studied at Georgetown University. Following the convocation, there will be a luncheon to which
all students are invited.

SGA President Blain Butner said that he considers the section concerning P.E. requirements to have been the most revealing and
important part of the referendum. “As can be seen from the results,” Butner said, “a large majority of students (81
percent) feel that the present P.E. system is not meeting its objectives. Interestingly enough, however, a substantial majority do not
think that the P.E. requirement for graduation should be eliminated. There is a trend here, as elsewhere, towards a desire
for greater flexibility in the ways by which the requirement can be satisfied,” he continued. (See POLL, page 12)

(Photo by Tanner)

FOUNDATION OF LEARNING

According to Director of Physical Plant, Grover C. Meetze, the new library has adequate foundations and has passed all building
inspections.

Minter Rationalizes Pre-Law

By ANDY LAMAS
Senior News Editor

(Ed Note: This is the first installment in a two-part series with Pre-Law Committee Chairman Winfred P. Minter.)

“To judge the pre-law program, I can indicate that to date this year, a total of 56 students have taken
the LSAT. I am at present in the process of gathering information as to the numbers who did not apply
to any law school, those applying, and the results of their efforts. Sixteen have not applied to any law school.
Thirty-two of the remaining 40 have been accepted at one or more law schools. That leaves eight concerning whom information
is being gathered,” said Winfred P. Minter, chairman of the pre-law committee. In other words, over 80 percent of those
students who applied to law schools will be attending law schools next fall. This level of acceptance is well above
the national average.

With such a high level of acceptance, one may wonder why so much criticism has been leveled against the pre-law
program over the past few weeks. Much of the criticism has resulted because many students and faculty attempt to evaluate
the pre-law program by comparing it to the pre-med program. “It's a completely different ballgame from the pre-med program,” said
Minter. “As far as acceptance rates are concerned, hardly any attacks can be leveled at the pre-law program.” (See MINTER,
page 2)

Campus Tax Report

Last week, the Campus Tax Committee met and considered budget requests submitted by the following student organizations. Out of a
requested total of $55,845, budgets amounting to $48,300 were approved. The distribution of funds among the requesting organizations is as
follows:

Organization Requested 1974-75 Approved 1974-75
Quips & Cranks $13,200 $11,000
Davidsonian 11,300 10,500
SGA 10,200 7,500
Artist Series 5,660 4,000
Miscellany 1,400
