Six October 11, 1974 The Davidsonian Off The Record ‘Pure Prairie League’ Strikes Western, Electrical Balance By LEE HUDSPETH Staff Writer

Music today serves various purposes for different people; some use music for background effect at parties, others enjoy music only as something with a beat to dance to, still others use music to study by. Yet some folks listen to their music selectively, choosing it on the basis of the talent of the musician(s); the uniqueness of the sound; the meaningfulness of the lyrics; and most importantly, according to exactly what emotions and thoughts the music produces within that individual. I address this column to members of the last group, and I hope to introduce you to some interesting music, regardless of its age or popularity.

The sound of ‘Pure Prairie League,’ a famous mid-Western group, is of considerable quality and worth examining. This group apparently no longer records, and whether it still exists is questionable; however, the League did produce two albums, “Pure Prairie League” in early 1972, and “Bustin’ Out” from June 19 to August 7, 1972.

The first album, “Pure Prairie League” is a superb example of such a blend, made up of a foundation of country style issuing from some electric components, subtle hints of an earthier tone emanating from the synthesis of the instruments and lyrics themselves, and a significant layer of emotional involvement coming from the artists’ personalities. “Tears” is the first song of eight on this record and serves as a fine introduction to the League’s music. The outstanding feature of this particular arrangement is the fusion of each instrument’s and vocalist’s note-line in a couple’s harmonic fashion. The song begins with both an electric and sho-boo steel guitar lead backed up by a rhythm guitar's light but punctuated chording, along with a strong bass and drum beat. As the lyrics enter, the leads become lighter while the rhythm guitar’s chording continues to emphasize the flowing yet accented feel of the entire song. The lyrics deal with a man’s sorrow at his lover’s lack of understanding and concern for his lifestyle. Between verses, the steel sho-boo releases a lead, the theme of which is freedom, then follows a lead on the electric guitar expressing the theme of a man’s inner fortitude.

The League’s second record entitled “Bustin’ Out” is of the same inestimable quality as the first, yet only one song out of all 17 was ever, to my knowledge, promoted by popular radio; that song being “Amie” from Side Two. The lyrics are sung with great passion and pertain to a man who is “falling in and out of love” with his lover Amie; he has left the future of their relationship up to her even though deep inside he wants to stay with her forever. Interspersed among the lyrics are instrumental sections that showcase the band’s talent; amazingly enough, the musicians never seem to run out of new material with which to produce their novel sound.

Jerry Rockwood will characterize Edgar Allen Poe in “A Condition of Shadow” in Love Auditorium, Oct. 12, at 8:15.

An Interview With Viveca Lindfors By FRANCIS TOWNSEND Staff Writer

Seated in the sun, two women talk. I plunk down on the grass and strain to grasp the drift of the conversation. It’s not hard to tell which one is the actress. Viveca Lindfors commands even this informal stage. A newcomer, after a nervous sweep of her hair behind her ears, her voice glides from the silent bank into a stream of feeling about her work. Her hands dance before her in a supplication of understanding. “I undertook this work to find out what my feelings are.”

On The Stage, Lindfors Is NEVERMORE

Opening with blasts of music and turning titles, “Gone with the Wind” quickly settles into place as a plodding mock-epic. Dull shots of rivers and fields and flowers and houses are meant to evoke the “spirit” of the South. The first dramatic scene is the worst. Scarlett (Vivian Leigh in a performance worthy of Shirley Temple) sits on the portico of Tara and flirts with the Tarleton twins, who dance about like idiots. At one time, this scene was scheduled to be re-shot, which indicates that even Selznick and Fleming were dissatisfied with it. The Tarletons inform Scarlett of the approaching engagement of Melanie Hamilton to Ashley Wilkes. Scarlett utters that execrable phrase “Fiddle-dee-dee” and runs off into the woods—ignoring the calls of Mammy, who is shouting at her to treat her guests in a civilized manner—where she comes upon her father, who delivers a lecture on the value of Tara. They are buffeted by a wind machine and photographed in silhouette against a blazing sky. In keeping with the film’s stature as a mock-epic, we are treated to bells ringing and slaves coming in from the fields. The next day, at the Wilkes’ picnic, Scarlett is the center of attention for all the men but Ashley. Her beaus act like retarded three-year-olds. Later in the film, when George Kennedy asks Scarlett about Sue Ellen, he blushes like Chaplin or Keaton in love—except that what he does is intended as serious dramatic acting and completely lacks grace. Victor Fleming misdirects much of “Gone with the Wind” as though he were still working on “The Wizard of Oz.” A couple of scenes by George Cukor offer tantalizing glimpses of the film that might have been. The first of Cukor’s scenes in which Melanie gives birth is the only scene in the movie I amable to take seriously. In this scene, and in another somewhat less impressive one also directed by Cukor—the one in which Scarlett shoots the scavenger—Leigh and Olivia de Havilland (Melanie) give strong naturalistic performances. Usually, Leigh plays for either comedy or glamour. De Havilland, in many of her other scenes, plays the pure quintessence of Goody-Goodness—like a skunk, but beautiful. Even Butterfly McQueen (Prissy) adds serious dimensions to her performance in the first scene by Cukor. She enhances rather than contradicts the wonderful comic characterization she creates throughout.

Cukor worked for months preparing the film and did three weeks of shooting before he quit and/or was fired. There were two reasons for his exit. One was that he didn’t care for the meddling of David Oliver Selznick, the producer. Selznick would show up on the set every day with “hot” ideas about how the scenes should be. Cukor held a low opinion of most of these ideas and was surely in the right if the rest of the film can be taken as any indication of the nature of these ideas. In some scenes, Vivian Leigh is reduced to rolling eyes, sticking out her tongue, and pulling pigtails. These ideas must have come from Selznick or Fleming, for Leigh is normally a fine, gracious actress. Rumor has it that Leigh’s rebelliousness on the set contributed to a nervous breakdown on the part of Fleming. Good.

Another reason for Cukor’s exit was the insecurity of Clark Gable. Gable, who had no illusions about his acting powers, flatly refused the role of Rhett Butler when it was first offered to him, but pressure from his fans and the offer of a large salary eventually coaxed him to accept. Realizing that he was a poor actor, Gable insisted that he have a strong director to help him. Curiously, he felt Fleming could give him this help and Cukor could not. Either Cukor left or Gable did. Cukor left.

Despite being typecast, Gable delivers a poor performance. His face is normally an interesting one, but his grimaces make it ugly and distorted. He never seems to mean a word he says, and I sometimes have trouble telling which of his lines are intentionally ironic and which are only accidentally so. Still, he is preferable to Errol Flynn, who seemed in line for the part to act opposite him. Margaret Mitchell has suggested Groucho Marx for the part which she wrote with him in mind, and I tend to agree with her. A Marx performance might be quite helpful to the film in its present state of fiasco. It is practically a comedy already.

However, “Gone with the Wind” does contain a few fine performances. Laura Hope Crews, as Aunt Pittypat, who flusters and blusters and faints at every breeze, may not exactly act, but is quite funny. Another fine intentionally comic performance is that of McQueen. De Havilland and Leigh, who continued to rehearse with Cukor on the sly, give excellent if disunified performances. At her best, Leigh gives hints of the maturity to come.

“Gone with the Wind” has little unity of any sort. It begins as a pseudo-epic and ends a grandiose melodrama. Blithely, it runs through enough material for half a dozen films without managing to develop anything. The film had seven directors—sometimes five scenes were being shot simultaneously on different sets—and countless writers. The film is a manufactured item, and Selznick, who interfered with his directors practically to the point of taking over, is a businessman, not an artist. “Gone with the Wind” should have been, and doubtless was, intended to be, a romance, a work of myth and ritual, but it never achieves this stature. I’m as big a fool about the Old Cause as anyone, but when war was declared and the gallants kissed their belles and rushed away from the Wilkes’ picnic to enlist, I could only shift in my seat and yawn.

By JOE MCMILLAN

“...were, and how to go on,” Lindfors said. She talks with great delight about her current project, “I Am a Woman.” The joys and terrors of the work she relates closely to her life as therapy. “It deals with my own dilemma.” She describes the dilemma as a crisis of age (“About the age of 50, one realizes that the present day is all one has to work with.”) and a crisis of marriage. “It was a research project, a rehabilitation art project.” These twin concerns, a crisis of age and a crisis of marriage, indicate the two subjects foremost in the mind of Viveca Lindfors as she talks. She constantly refers to her inner emotional conditions and her relation to the opposite sex.

Before creating “I Am a Woman” she felt a split “between the active, independent woman and the intimate, loving woman.” However, she now “feels fulfilled doing this.” This personal resolution is mirrored in the aims that she applies to the performance; “It is a mystical show, a search in a labyrinth, a woman looking back into the past to seeking how to keep the best.” She wants to convey “a new awareness,” that “violation of self leads to violence and war,” and that “women must recognize themselves as good citizens of the world.” She declines the restrictions of the label of women’s liberation, and offers instead “human liberation.” “It pursues the question of being a free spirit.”

Lindfors is earnestly honest as she talks. She convinces one that her articulation springs not from habit but from conviction.