Twelve October 11, 1974 The Davidsonian

Statement On Housing Facilities

Up'n’Coming

Friday, October 11
- All week: Herb Jackson Exhibit, Stowe Galleries
- All day: Symposium on Human Sexuality, Chambers Banquet Hall
- 10 & 12 p.m.: Popular Film: "Kelly’s Heroes," Love Auditorium

(Ed. Note: The following is a resolution passed by the Student Government Association Senate at its Tuesday night meeting. The
text of the resolution appears as it was passed. Copies of the measure have been sent to Davidson Mayor Tom
Sadler, the Davidson Town Council, and College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.)

Fact: An integral part of an adequate standard of living is a healthy environment, not only social influences, but also
adequate physical facilities in which to live. Clusters of substandard housing and ghetto-like structures have been shown to be breeding
grounds for perpetual sanitation issues and usually result in the existence of vermin and the spread of disease.

Furthermore, the Statement of Purpose of Davidson College states that: “Davidson’s primary purpose is to develop persons of humane instincts,
of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.”

Declaration: We believe that housing as described above is not only detrimental to inhabitants in a physical and healthful manner,
but that it is also psychologically and morally degrading. We further believe that a college such as Davidson College, which
professes to desire to develop a Christian and humane lifestyle within those who are the College, should endeavor to extend
its Christian and humane professions to the surrounding community. We further believe that the Town of Davidson has an obligation
to assist those living in the community in realizing a respectable standard of living, in the broad sense as well
as regarding adequate physical living facilities.

Resolution: Therefore, we, the SGA Senate of Davidson College, resolve the following:
1) We mandate the college administration to evaluate thoroughly the housing facilities which it offers to its employees. Realizing the
dilemmas which exist in such an enterprise, we suggest to the college that now is the time to determine how
to remedy a situation which is dubious at best. We further petition the president of the college to issue a
public statement regarding his investigation and the college's intention by Oct. 22, 1974.
2) We propose to the Davidson Town Council that a standard of housing for all living facilities in the town
should be explored. We further urge that an official housing code be adopted and enforced. We request the Davidson Town
Council to make a formal statement of their intentions within 30 days.

Cat Booters Dumped Twice (Continued from page 11)

Duke to boot the ball through the goal post. The first half ended with a close 6-3 score. Duke came
out for the second half fired up. Despite a tough game by the Davidson ruggers, theBlue Devils scored a try
midway in the half. The conversion kick failed. Duke put down Davidson’s hopes for a comeback as they scored three
points on a penalty kick. The game ended in Duke’s favor 13-3. The second game was a close contest. Even
with Davidson being short one player, aggressive playing was the name of the game. Davidson was beset by penalties as
many Wildcats had never before played. Duke scored first with a try and the conversion point. The rest of the
first half was a stalemate between two very aggressive teams. Davidson made a comeback in the second half with a
long score by freshman David Swain. The kick after failed, but momentum was on Davidson’s side. Fred Smith made a
penalty kick good as Davidson took the lead 7-6. Davidson was confident of a victory up to the last minute.
At that point, a penalty kick from a back angle was made by Duke as time ran out. Ironically, Duke
had tried in vain two penalty kicks before; both short and at easy angles. This Sunday, Davidson travels to Louisburg
College near Raleigh, N.C. When asked how they expected to do, Jeff Morrow, who was first sidelined with an injury
in the game against Duke, said, “We will destroy!” Davidson’s next home game will be against Hampden-Sydney during Homecoming Weekend.

Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30

Union National.

DAVIDSON

Tuesday, October 15
7 p.m. Worship Service — DCPC

Wednesday, October 16
8 p.m. Fine Film: Love Auditorium “Yankee Doodle Dandy”

Thursday, October 17
COLLEGE CONFERENCE DAY all day
ROTC Blood Drive

Friday, October 18
all day - Artist Series: Claude Kipnis--Mime
8 p.m. Football: Lenoir Rhyne (WDAV Broadcast)
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium “A Clockwork Orange”

Saturday, October 19
Chambers Banquet Hall

Conference Day (Continued from page 2)

course as their Extended Studies under the sponsorship of Professor of Biology Donald Kimmel. Kimmel felt that such a course
should be taught by professors from several departments. “I would like to see all students, but particularly freshmen, take this
kind of course,” Kimmel said. At this time, a course in human sexuality is being discussed and considered. Most of
the faculty and administrators contacted felt that the course might be offered in spring of 1975 at the earliest. Terry
pointed out that there are a number of activities on campus this weekend in addition to the symposium. “There is
the movie Friday and a concert on Saturday night,” Terry added. “We hope to be able to combine some education
with a big weekend atmosphere.” The symposium is being funded by the College Union and the Dean of Students’ Office.

Chambers Banquet Hall

HATTIE’S
Subs--Pizzas--Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers--Cold Draught
