Cornell Quits Post As Finance Head

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

With the departure of C. David Cornell as vice-president for finance and development, the financial structure of Davidson College will undergo the process of reorganization. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. indicated that he would seek two men to replace Cornell, citing the advantages of having finance and development under separate heads.

“The position requiring one person to supervise both the financial and the developmental aspects of the college had grown to be too much responsibility for one person,” Spencer noted. The Vol. LXIV, No. One really too broad for a single person.” Spencer was quick to emphasize that the combining of the two jobs several years ago had been an experiment. He felt that the rationale for the trial had been justified and that the results had proven it a good possibility.

“I think that the performances made under the system have indicated that it was a worthwhile venture,” Spencer said. “But I also feel that the liabilities were evident.” The new system will have one person as the designated director of development and another as supervisor of the finances of the college. They felt this new system would be better suited to his position from an administrative standpoint.

“I would prefer to have a more direct line to the two areas. This will make development and finance more directly related to my office, instead of both going through an individual who would then report to me. This will give me a better hand in both of these areas,” Spencer acknowledged.

Vice-President for Academic and Student Affairs John M. Bevan pointed out that it is important for the president of a college to decide which organizational system he will use. “It should definitely be the decision of the president as to which system he feels is best for the college,” Bevan said.

Davidsonian
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
September 13, 1974

New Union Set To Open In January, Board Optimistic For Year’s Programs

The old Hugh and Jane Parks Grey Library is scheduled to open as the newly renovated College Union on January 1, 1975, according to Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith. “We are looking for a Jan. 1 completion date. We feel this is a realistic date, but it is not a promise,” said Smith. “I’m real excited about the possibilities,” he added. “This gives us a far better programming range than what we had dreamed.”

But the Union has not been idly awaiting the opening of its new facilities. “During the summer, your Union was working hard to pull together what looks to be an exciting year. The entire staff of the Davidson College Union wants to welcome you back to campus and hopes that you too will feel that we have a tremendous year coming up,” said President of the College Union Frazier Marsh.

Beginning Monday, and running every Monday thereafter until Oct. 28, the Union will be presenting the “Ascent of Man” series. This is a much-acclaimed film series written for B.B.C. by Dr. Jacob Bronowski, a renowned mathematician, biologist, teacher, author, poet, philosopher, and historian. The films, first shown in the United States at the Smithsonian Institute, trace the intellectual and emotional evolution of man from prehistoric to modern times.

On September 28 in Love Auditorium, the poetry circuit will present a poetry concert. More than a reading, this multi-media production is a mix of jazz, poetry, and dance. Loomis McGlohan performs the music while the poetry is presented by Charleen Whisnant. The production has been presented on major campuses throughout North and South Carolina and has received wide acclaim. “The sounds of music and the words of poetry complement and expand each other,” said Barbara Brawley of the Charlotte Observer.

After much negotiation and hard work, the Union is able to present a new concept in entertainment on the Davidson College campus with Viveca Lindfors performing in “I Am a Woman” on Oct. 8. This is a dramatic presentation in which Lindfors portrays, in a sense, “Everywoman.” Her act ranges from a 13-year-old Vietnamese girl, brutalized by the war, to a frustrated Marilyn Monroe expressing her desire to be more than a sex goddess, to a portrayal of Mrs. Charles Manson. Lindfors is a type of feminist, but...More than that, she is a person able to present, through dramatic expression, the trials of both women and men through history, Marsh indicated. On Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium, Jerry Rockford will present “Edgar Allen Poe—A Condition of Shadow.” Through Poe’s writings, Rockford will portray an in-depth characterization of the poet. “This is an exciting, new type of drama, being neither a reading nor a play in the traditional sense,” Marsh said.

Rockford has won the Barter Theater Award for acting, has performed with several touring companies including the National Company of “Teahouse of the August Moon,” and is the author of the text, “The Craftsman of Dionysus: An Approach to Acting.”

Homecoming weekend begins Friday, Oct. 25, with an opening concert by Kansas. “Cashbox” said, “Look for Kansas to become one of the biggest rock groups of '74... They are an organization which truly deserves overwhelming success.” Saturday night, Larry Coryell, acclaimed as one of the greatest electric jazz guitarists in the United States, will be playing in Johnston Gymnasium at 8 p.m. This is the first concert scheduled in the gym with the new acoustical engineering. “This concert will provide a precedent for future concerts, as the gym will provide a more ‘concert-like’ atmosphere,” said Marsh. As yet, the daytime activities for Homecoming ’74 have not been formally programmed.

Sonny Terry and Brownie McGee will be in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. Nov. 9 playing a blend of folk-blues. The two have been playing together for 33 years and are said to be “the greatest living exponents of black folk blues.” They have toured the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand, and have appeared on “In Concert” and “Midnight Special” as well as appearing in three plays on Broadway. “We look for this to be one of the most exciting concerts of Fall term,” said Marsh.

On Nov. 15 and 16, the Davidson College Union will present the Alpha-Omega Players in “The World of Carl Sandburg” and “Where Are You Going, Hollis Jay?” Another first on the Davidson Campus will be a dinner theater in the basement of Chambers for Saturday night’s performance. The company, from Dallas, Texas, has performed all over the country, receiving rave reviews.

(See UNION, page 2)

“Which structure best suits him,” Bevan said. “After all, he is the one who carries the ultimate responsibilities for funds.”

Spencer also indicated that some restructuring of the office for academic and student affairs might be forthcoming. “This is now under discussion, and it is possible that we may move on this during this year,” Spencer said. He indicated that any such move would come “with the acquiescence and recommendation” of Bevan.

Cornell resigned during the summer to take a job as director of fund-raising for a career service program at California Polytechnic State University. Spencer said that the search was on for successors to Cornell. He expressed hopes that the project would be completed within a few months. As for the present, Spencer indicated that the slack in fund raising would be picked up by the heads of the numerous subdivisions under each of the areas of finance and development. “Certainly the college will suffer financially to some degree,” Spencer admitted. “But the many people involved in the various areas of work will continue their good productions, while there are several things we have going now that I will give my personal attention to.”

Both Spencer and Bevan noted that the separation of development and finance had been recommended by the recent Faculty Self-Study, which should be made public in the near future. Several other staff members have left Davidson for other institutions. Don Winston, who headed the development area under Cornell, had resigned prior to the close of the past academic year to accept a position at Southern California. Russel Strong, former director of public information at Davidson, is now the head of that department at Wake Forest University.

Bevan indicated that (See CHANGES, page 8)

The new E.H. Little Library was already functioning when classes started this week. Although final work on the plaza between the library and Chambers Building is being completed, all facilities are in operation. E.H. Little, principal benefactor of the $4.2 million building, will be on campus for the dedication of the library, Sept. 27.