The Bavidsonian April 5, 1974

Eleven

C.A. and Y.B. Flame On Again
Despite Alarming Lack Of Facts

Due to reasons beyond our control, we cannot give many of the IMAC softball scores this week.

The fools that are in charge of IMAC locked the IMAC office, an unprecedented move, and we're unable to find
a key. Live and learn, I guess.

Anyhow, over in Division I, mass confusion reigns. The early leader Vatican II took a serious drubbing at the hands
of C-V. Both teams stand at 2-1.

Also in contention are the 3M company and 4th East (we thought they changed the name of the dorm to
Sentelle).

Bringing up the rear at 0-2 is KA#2. The surprise leader at this point is a freshman team, Richardson II.

In Division II, the pride of the south, KA#1 stands alone at the top with a 2-0 record. Bob Cunningham
and Buck Farrow led the way for Barley Hay and Alfalfa.

The number two squad in the division is the always tough Gozinyas. The warm weather has not hurt their ability
to drink brew, but it has been suspected that drinking brew hurts their ability to play softball. Look for them
to sober up in time for the tournament.

The SPE's stand even at 1-1 while the rest of the pack, PDT#1, the hapless ATO’s and Sticks are all
looking for their first win.

Division III's powerhouse looks to be the Ragin Cajuns from Arcadia. The Cajuns feature Randy Wagner, Tom Verlin, Juan Lanchey
and the Big E himself.

The other contender in Division III figures to be last year's defending champs, the Kerwood Derbies. The Derbies have been
hit hard by graduation, but still have some fine players in Allen Duncan, Doug Eye and Jeff Heslop.

Phi Delt 3:2 and C-IV are deadlocked at 1-1 while C-Iane Beaver are locked in the basement. Beaver's kind of
a quaint name though.

The race in Division IV is looking like a two-way affair between the MGs and Emanon. Both are tied at
2-0 with Emanon looking a little better at this point.

The no-names have the redoubtable Calvin Allen and a cast of thousands. The MGs include the Vanilla Fudge, the Kerwood
Derbies, the SPE’s and BCA#2.

SAE#1 stands alone at 1-1 while PDT#2, PGD#1 and the Over the Hill are stuck in the second division with
no wins apiece.

The fifth and final division has another two-way race in progress. The always tough Queen and her Twelve Very Nice
Guys, otherwise known as Q12, is being contested by the new team on the block, Feita Thi.

We only wish that the Staten Island Fairies had survived so they could have played in this. The Cannoneers could
be the sleeper in this tough division. The rest of the crew looks pretty seedy, all of them are without
wins. The SPE’s, the Strong, and Tom White.

Once again we apologize for our lack of information. We'll get some scores next week. Be cool and don't tilt.

A NON-CONTACT SPORT
The Davidson rugby club sponsored a tournament this weekend and the action was anything but mild. Carolina emerged victorious with
Davidson placing second.

"Heel Ruggers Scourge Tournament Contender

By ANN BODE
Staff Writer

Carolina’s rugby club emerged victorious in the first Davidson Invitational Rugby Tournament. The tournament’s three other contenders, Davidson, Charlotte, and
Davidson Renegades, took second, third, and fourth places respectively.

The championship game between Carolina and Davidson was a hard-fought match on Saturday. The match became dominated early in the
first half of the game by the Davidson Wildcat Ruggers. The Wildcats scored once more before the half when Marty
Williamson kicked a three-point penalty kick. By the end of the first half, Davidson was upsetting Carolina 7-3.

Carolina came storming back on the field from the half ready to score. They succeeded within five minutes with a
hard-fought try and a successful extra point kick.

Davidson then tightened and allowed no more scoring, but never regained their forceful spark of the first half and failed
to score again. With a 9-7 edge over Davidson, Carolina took home the cup given as a trophy in the
Davidson tournament.

The Tar Heels previously won the right to play Davidson in a hard-hitting but lopsided game against Charlotte. Though Chapel
Hill was with injuries, they defeated Charlotte 30-16.

Davidson ruggers travel to Charleston this week.

FRIDAY, April 5

8 & 10 P.M. Love Auditorium

THE UNION POPULAR FILMS COMMITTEE PRESENTS

THE WALT DISNEY FILM FESTIVAL

Admission All Shows - $.50 (Cheap)
DON’T MISS THESE THREE CLASSIC DISNEY FLICKS

THURSDAY, April 4
8 & 10 P.M. Love Auditorium

The Absent-minded Professor

SATURDAY, April 6
8 & 10 P.M. (or whenever the concert is over)
Chambers Banquet Hall

Piedmont Appliances

HOWARD & BRAWLEY
664-2138 664-2833
MOORESVILLE, N.C. 28115
Used sofa, chairs, end tables, ranges, and refrigerators.

THE HUB

OPEN:
Mon. - Fri.
9 - 5:30
