Sixteen April 12, 1974

The Davidsonian, Saturday, April 13
- All day
- 3 p.m. Sunday, April 14
- Athletes
- 7 p.m. Fellowship

Monday, April 15
- Up ‘n’ Coming

Friday, April 12
- All week: Third Davidson National Stowe Galleries Print & Drawing Contest
- 4 p.m. Historical Society of N.C. Eu Hall
- 7:30 p.m. WBT/Staff Basketball Johnston Gym
- 8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium “Cries and Whispers”

Davidson Relays
- Easter Egg Hunt
- 6:30 p.m. Fellowship of Christian Davidson Christian “The Second Standard Of Impeachment”
- 2 & 4 p.m. Film: “Little Caesar”
- 7:30 p.m. Tryouts for Davidson College Originals
- 8 p.m. Speaker: James Reston
- 10 p.m. Hungry

Wednesday, April 17
- 8 p.m. Speaker: William F. Buckley Myers Park High School
- Erwin Lodge
- Morrison Room
- Martin Room
- Love Auditorium
- Workshop Theater
- Phi Hall
- Rathskeller
- Love Auditorium

Learners Experiment With Unique Projects
By WAYNE GULLEDGE
Staff Writer

In keeping with the Davidson tradition of self-development through the Extended Studies Program, many students are working on their own
this term. Manifestations of concern about different facets of life are to be seen in the various projects being undertaken.

Perhaps the most physically demanding one is the movement and restoration of a log cabin built in the 1830s and
located in Rowan County, N.C. In conjunction with the reconstructive work, sponsored by Professor of Art Larry Ligo, Professor of
History Malcolm Lester is leading extensive research into the history of the cabin itself, as well as into the milling
and carpentry techniques used at the time of the building’s construction.

Self-sufficiency and rapport with nature are the thrusts of two other endeavors. Professor of Biology Tom Daggy is heading a
seminar on edible wild plants. At weekly meetings, members prepare “meals” and discuss methods of preparation. The program's culmination will
be a weekend in the wild, during which the participants will utilize the culinary information they will have acquired.

Sophomore Jim DeVille plans to attend a 5-day survival course at the North Carolina Outward Bound School in Morganton. Survival
skills will be put to use in an extended expedition involving backpacking and camping and in “solos” in which individuals
are left isolated with a minimum of supplies and must rely on their ingenuity to exist for a few days.

Along somewhat the same lines, Sikes McCord will design and construct a self-sufficient house to be powered by the sun,
wind, water, and methane gas.

There are two projects offering self-development through contact with institutionalized persons. One entails personal work with children in the Barium
Springs Home for Children, and the other with adolescents and adults in the Memorial Hospital Psychiatric Ward.

Finally, attention is being given to a problem foremost in the minds of many at Davidson. Sue Cunningham is studying
sexism as it is demonstrated in the textbooks of elementary schools in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg School System.

WDAV Effects Changes, Faces Many Problems

The new station managers of WDAV, sophomore Mark Wilensky and freshman Bucky Neal, have made some changes in the operation
of the station, but at the same time are faced with several problems.

“One of the major changes we made,” said Wilensky, “was to reorganize classical programming. Instead of having all four hours
of daily classical music in one show, we split it into two segments, one an hour and a half long,
from 3:30 until 5 p.m., the other from 6:30 to 9 p.m.”

Asked why this was done, Wilensky said that a desire was expressed by many students to have contemporary programming on
the air at the times they are having supper. The newSchedule allows both the students that eat at Slater and
the ones that belong to the eating houses on Patterson Court to have contemporary music played on the radios at
dinner. Another change in the operation of the station is the method used to get public service announcements on the
air. "In the past, people just came down to the studio and put up a sign someplace where a DJ
would hopefully see it," Neal commented. "What we've done now is to print some forms for people to fill out
if they want an announcement read on the air and these completed forms are kept in a book in the
studio. We don't think this will pose any problem for anyone since they would have to write the announcement on
a piece of paper anyway."

THUNK CARLO’S
Jeans n' Things
At Depression Prices
122 S. Main St.
Mooresville, N.C.
See Our Large Selection

A Jewelers of trusted Reputation for 3 generations
241 N. Main St.
Phone 664-3624
Mooresville, N.C.

Neal said that these forms are available at the desk in the Union and in the studio, located in the
basement of the library. The two managers were asked about the problems they said they faced. "The worst problem right
now is the fact that the DJ's individual licenses are about to expire," Wilensky said. "Right now, all but a
few of the DJ’s have provisional licenses that are only good for a year. The FCC issues these to give
people a chance to be on the air while they study for the test they must take for a third
class license. Not many people have third class licenses and if they don’t get them before next fall our staff
will be greatly reduced." The provisional licenses are non-renewable.

WDAV now has one of the biggest staffs of any student organization, a condition caused both by need and popularity.
"We need a big staff," Neal asserted, "just because of all the time we are on the air. We’re lucky
that there is so much interest in the radio station. We never have had a problem with finding enough people.
I just hope people have enough interest to go to Winston-Salem and take the FCC test."

Another problem facing WDAV now is the absence of Don Smith. Smith is the station's chief engineer, but at the
moment is participating in a career/service program in Chicago, IL. Bill Manson, his assistant, is performing his duties now, but
a first class license-holder like Smith is needed, according to Wilensky. "Don will be graduating in a year, and then
we really will be in trouble if we can’t find another first class operator. Places like N.C. State and Georgia
Tech are crawling with engineering students who could qualify for the license, but a small school like Davidson just doesn’t
have them."

MEN! — WOMEN! JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00
for information, SEAFAX, Dept. 4-14 P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362.

Radio Shack
DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION
Authorized Dealer
THE SHOP
Electronics Unlimited
173 N. Main St.
663-4513
Mooresville, N.C.

Rugged as the man who wears them, too. Because Bass builds quality and character into every pair of shoes they
make. Fine leathers and careful hand detailing make the difference.

ESTABLISHED
First Union National
DAVIDSON
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
