Six January 18, 1974 The Davidsonian Alan Blakley

Criminal Transgressions Defy Impotent Honor Regulations

A new crop of posters hit the Davidson campus over the Christmas holidays. These posters tell of all of the
benefits of our honor system. There are two possible explanations of who placed these posters around the campus. First, we
could believe that some sincere, yet terribly naive person (such as Will Terry) who still believes in the honor system
placed them on the walls to inspire us, the common herd. Or, we could believe that some great satirist placed
them on the walls so that he could see how many stupid people took them seriously. We sincerely believe that
the latter is the case. Only the most naive idiot could believe that Davidson's honor system is working.

Consider stealing. Each year several thousand dollars’ worth of books disappear from the library. We could believe the optimists when
they tell us that these books are stolen by outsiders. Some people paint the picture of a huge truck driven
by 10 blacks from “across the tracks” backing up to the library at night, breaking in, and hauling away books.
They take these books into Charlotte to their favorite pawn shop where they get enough money for tomorrow’s fix of
heroin. We have only two questions. Why should these shady characters steal books rather than equipment from the science buildings?
Who buys these books? It is hard to imagine a large market for books which have ‘Davidson College’ stamped all
over them. Yet the official theory holds that a band of off-campus hoodlums is responsible for the theft. Many more
items on this campus would be much easier and much more profitable to steal. But we shouldn't suggest such things
to the hoodlums who will read this column.

Petty theft, which is still stealing, occurs in such magnitude on this campus that if every guilty person were taken
to trial, the honor court would be in session constantly for the next 24 years and seven months. Students constantly
steal from the eating houses, bookstore, union, each other, professors, and me.

Plagiarism is another favorite topic of the honor system. Considering that the average Davidson professor doesn’t read the current literature
in his field, you can get away with anything. A student is caught plagiarizing in one of two cases. If
the student is so stupid as to turn a plagiarized paper in to one of the professors who does read.
Or if the student has a professor who fell and broke his leg and had nothing to waylay the boredom
but a scholarly journal. A student gets caught plagiarizing just often enough to make the honor system appear to be
working.

Move your consideration from stealing to cheating. There is not as much evidence of cheating on this campus as there
is of stealing. The amount of cheating cannot be classified as easily as the amount of goods stolen.

Entertainment By FRAZIER MARSH

“South Pacific,” the Pulitzer Prize-winning play, generally regarded as the best of Rogers and Hammerstein, is being presented by the
Pineville Dinner Theatre beginning Feb. 3 in Pineville, N.C. The cast is young, energetic, and ready to bring down the
house with their songs and romance. Curtain will go up at 8:20 p.m. and dinner is served from 6:45 until
8 p.m. every night. Pineville Dinner Theatre seeks the patronage of Davidson students by giving special rates Sunday thru Thursday.
For ticket information call Pineville Dinner Theatre at 364-7981.

This coming Wednesday, the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra will perform in Ovens Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. The orchestra will be directed
by Brourman and the featured pianist will be Klaus Hellwig. The orchestra is picking up fame throughout the Southeast.

The Oratorio Singers of Charlotte are planning a performance on Jan. 26 at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. The group,
directed by Donald Plott, will present ‘Sacred Service’ by E. Bloch and “Gloria” by F. Poulenc. These two selections have
been hailed as two of the most exciting pieces in contemporary music.

UNCC has also scheduled a number of events to take place in January. Tomorrow night at 8:15 UNCC will present
the Rowe Quartet in the Parquet Room on their campus. The quartet will perform Beethoven, Ravel, and Piston. The following
day, Jane Morais will begin a one-woman show in Rowe Gallery at UNCC. Her work to be shown will be
examples of “mixed media.” She will be showing from 9-5 p.m. Sunday.

Spoon River Anthology will be the...Second major drama production of the 1973-74 season. It will be presented Wednesday and Friday
nights at 8:15 p.m., admission $1, and Thursday afternoon at 2:15 p.m., admission 50¢. Our sources tell us that about
70 percent of the Davidson student body have cheated in one way or another. Perhaps this "70 percent" is the
infamous 70 percent who go on to do graduate work? Lying under oath is one offense covered by the honor
code that is virtually never committed. This statistic is easily explained by the fact that no more than 20 people
a year are called on to swear (although more people voluntarily swear daily). To turn in someone seen committing an
honor violation? When our sources were asked about this, it took 20 minutes to get them to stop laughing. Their
only response then was that they would never have any time to study.

THE SPEISE OF LIFE
Frank Speiser will perform "In the Words of Lenny Bruce" in Love Auditorium at 8 p.m. He will also hold
an informal discussion in the Morrison Room at 4 p.m. concerning Bruce, one of the most controversial comedians of the
late '50s.

REEL TO REEL REVIEWS
Woody Allen’s special gift is as an inventor of comic plots. They hope to use him in a plot to
overthrow their totalitarian rulers. At first, he refuses to help ("allergic to torture"), but they tell him he has been
illegally thawed-out, and the government will exterminate him if he is captured. When the doctors’ house is raided, our hero
escapes and has no other choice but to try to find the main group of rebels. He kidnaps a love
interest (delightfully portrayed by Diane Keaton) to aid him in his search, and, after a couple of misadventures, they arrive
at the rebel camp, from which they are sent on a mission to abduct the president’s nose, thus bringing the
country under their control. The plot is simple and clear in its outlines, but, except for the divinely inspired ending,
the funniest routines usually happen despite the plot rather than because of it. Other aspects of the movie have been
disciplined for the sake of the whole. The film is brief and to the point; the editing is tight, and
the comic pacing sublime. Some incidental political satire almost takes the stature of a theme, and the two leading roles
are nearly characterizations. All of this is very fine for a comedy in which the requirements are not as strict
as in a drama.

There has rarely been a film as publicized as "Papillon." Likewise, there has rarely been a film which ever deserved
such enormous publicity once it was released. "Papillon" is a good "B" movie which suffers from its own pretentiousness. The
film is extremely uneven. Franklin J. Schaffner’s direction is at times very tight and ludicrous. Jerry Goldsmith’s score is a
mass of syrupy mush, while Dalton Trumbo, as usual, has something to say in his screenplay, but doesn’t know how
to say it. Even the casting is uneven. Superstars Steve McQueen (as "Papillon") and Dustin Hoffman (Degas) play alongside familiar
character actors Victor Jory, Anthony Zerbe, and Don Gordon. The story is based on the amazing true-life account of Henri
Charrière about his escape from the penal colony of French Guiana. The film was made on location in Jamaica and
M. Charrière was a technical advisor. "Papillon" was intended to be a classic. For many reasons, it is not, but
this is not the fault of the stars Hoffman and McQueen. Both are excellent and provide the only bright spot
in the film. "Papillon" suffers from too much money. The movie was lavishly budgeted, much of which was spent on
the sets and special effects. The camera lingers on the brutal treatment of prisoners. Unfortunately, such scenes merely serve to
disgust the viewer rather than add to an understanding of the film. Undoubtedly, "Papillon" will make a great deal of
money. It is, after all, a movie with two of today’s biggest stars and it depicts, agonizingly, a very saleable
commodity on today's movie market, sadism.

By PETE CELENTANO

Something sacrificed in "Sleeper," which is neither as funny nor as energetic as "What's Up, Tiger Lily?" and "Bananas." Hopefully,
Allen will someday be able to control his movies without suppressing his talent. "Sleeper" is now playing at Southpark Cinema
II.

By JOE MCMILLAN
