Gozinyas Get It

Well, there are two weeks left in school, the volleyball tourney just started, tennis has not been run yet, and
softball is only into the semis of the double-elimination tourney.

So with our computer-type logic, we have decided to cover the softball tourney. (They're the only facts we have.)

The heroes of the tourney so far are those lovable drunken misfits, the amazing Gozinyas. In the words of Alec
(the human double) Hoon, the Gozinyas are “getting it on.”

No thanks to Alec, who has the uncanny ability to turn a grounder hit to him at third into a
double. The Gozinyas have whooped on the ATOs behind the seven-hit pitching of Dave “Bong Ball” Kittrell and the hitting
of the kid.

The ATOs then finished their season on about as down a happening as could be as the 4th Richardson Beavers
crushed the turnovers 22-2. A good season for the usually “ocre” Zeroes.

The Delts were the other early exit team in the eight-team tourney. Pre-tourney favorite Q-12 was the first to deal
death to the Delts as they crushed the footballers 13-7 while starting the game with seven guys. The Delts obviously
didn’t need that defeat for an ego boost as they dropped their last chance to advantageous Arcadia 12-2 behind the
centerfield play of Tom “Jop Pepitone” Tornee, and the kneeless Jim Lowry.

Before that game, the KA’s had rebelled against supposed Arcadia authority by dumping on the playful independents 17-7 with your
basic 10 run rule. Anchored by seniors John Brandon and Frank Smith, the KA’s are a slight threat to Q-12.

Don’t tell Q-12 that, as a matter of fact, I don’t think anybody told them last weekend as they crushed
the rebel yells in a 13-0 whitewash as Bruno the Wop twirled a six-hit shutout.

Falcon, Jonesy, and the Beachball led the hitting attack. The miraculous MG’s managed a good draw despite some incredulous worthless
play by former jai alai player turned Jewish, Mark Wilensky, and were able to nip an eager Beaver crew 3-2,
destroying the spirit of the Richardson wimps.

However, Miles Glorious ran into a couple of mobile kegs of beer (i.e., the Gozinyas) on Thursday as Jim Prince
and Richard Drix Hendrix led a Gozinya romp in a 12-1 fashion.

But the MG’s are still in it along with Arcadia, KA#1, and the rash Beavers, all who are 1-1.

The Gozinyas and Q-12 are squaring off at 2-0 and C.A. & Y.B. got to go with Q-12 as the
winners with a little question raised by Arcadia and the Gozinyas.

We would like to say a few words about National Gozinya Day, May 5th, 1974. We really will be glad
to see these beer-infested mutants go.

Budweiser will undoubtedly suffer a recession next year and Hatties will hold mourning for a month. To Richard Hendrix, Steve
“No-shorts” Morris, David “Super Chicken” Kittrell, and last but not least Alec “Bull Shit” Hoon and the rest of the
palace dwellers, we can only hope to offer one last “get it on.”

To those of you wondering about volleyball and tennis, we say you go look for the scores for once. And
to you pinball freaks, C.A. & Y.B. have definite blackmail evidence on “The Champ” with assured proof that the machine’s
mother was a pay toilet who had illicit relations with a plumber’s helper. Free games for all, Wilensky.
