Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

FOUR OCTOBER 11, 1974

A Land-Grant College

Davidson Mayor Tom Sadler indicated this week that federal funds are now available for the Town of Davidson to construct
new homes for those living in substandard housing in the area. This is good news, but the problem exists to
find the land on which to build. It is unlikely that any landowner in Davidson other than the college has
sufficient holdings of land to make such a housing project possible.

In the interview with Dr. Spencer and Mr. Currie printed in the Sept. 27 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN, Spencer maintained
that because the college cannot find alternative housing for those now living in the alleged substandard structures, they have been
allowed to remain where they are. Yet Spencer and Currie insist that the college “would like to get out of
the housing business.” The solution seems evident. We encourage the college to examine its land holdings and find a 100-acre
area which would be suitable for a housing construction project. We encourage the college to sell this land to the
town for the purpose of alleviating the problems of all substandard housing in Davidson. This seems the most natural and
practical option for the college to pursue if it is truly interested in bettering the housing conditions in Davidson.

Abandoning Blinders

The function of a student-run newspaper on a college campus is not universally agreed upon. On a campus such as
this one, where apathy reigns and conservatism is the rule, the newspaper role is clouded further. In recent weeks this
paper has sought to investigate issues normally swept under the rug. These efforts have produced mixed reviews on campus, though
the off-campus reaction has been very good. Student reaction has been interesting. While a few seem pleased that “all of
this is finally out,” a seemingly equal number resent the negative publicity the paper has given the college.

Certainly all is not right at Davidson. The laundry situation is controversial, and therefore news. The same holds true for
other issues we’ve investigated. News is not publicity. It is information presented for review, be it good or bad. When
the news is slanted, the press is rightfully taken to task. Both sides need to be heard. Concerning the housing
story of a few weeks ago, we granted a full page for an interview with Dr. Spencer and Mr. Currie
to present their views and opinions of the college-owned housing in the Davidson black community.

Students are ill-served by adopting a policy of wearing blinders to all “uncomfortable issues.” One student letter to the editor
deplores our lack of concern over the housing issue because no students were pictured with paintbrushes and trash cans. Had
students realized that such conditions existed, perhaps they would have given a hand in repairing broken windows or rat-eaten walls
and floors. Yet to put new patches on a generally dilapidated surface only perpetuates the problems to which these tenants
have resigned themselves. We would like to see students involved in bettering conditions in the community. We as students are
a part of the college, and we feel it is the responsibility of the college to better the housing conditions.

As students, we are paying the college to maintain its property. Immediately, the responsibility for maintenance lies with the administration
and staff. We expect them to handle our money well, using enough foresight to prevent conditions such as substandard housing.
If such conditions do exist though, we expect the administration to exert some leadership in alleviating the problems. We are
extremely disappointed that the college administration and many students apparently...‘We feel that our housing story reflects no concern for the
tenants in poor housing in this community nor any editorial leadership asking the administration to ameliorate these problems. We are
disappointed that such an investigation has been called sensationalism, and are equally disappointed that Dr. Spencer will not meet with
students at the present time to discuss student involvement in solving an admittedly difficult problem in providing housing that is
more than simply adequate. We, the editors and staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN, are here for a purpose: to provide the
community of Davidson with a newspaper that informs and entertains. We are a newspaper, not a propaganda machine.’

Anne Ficklen

Copper Increases Cerebral

As I was making a nightly pilgrimage to the fourth Watts hot water spigot a few nights ago, I happened
to notice a strange orange and gray substance covering the floor and encroaching upon the walls. With a brilliant leap
of logic, I realized this was not mere Cannon water fight residue, so I whipped out my pocket microscope (cunningly
hidden in the false bottom of my tea cup) and began a tentative analysis. With aid from a Chemistry major
who assured me he had just “wandered up” to the fourth floor (he told me that he always breathed heavily—the
steps hadn’t affected him at all), we made an exciting discovery. The substance saturating Watts as well as Cannon and
Richardson was a combination of zinc and copper. I was elated at the revelation, for this proved that Davidson freshmen
were actually the paragons of intelligence that they thought they were. The superabundance of zinc and copper piling up in
the freshman dorms substantiates the work of Dr. Adon A. Gordus, a Chemistry professor at the University of Michigan. Through
his studies, Dr. Adon A. Gordus found that students with the highest grade point averages have higher than normal zinc
and copper deposits in their hair, coupled with a lower iodine content. This last finding accounts for the fact that
the only place on campus in which a wounded freshman can find iodine is Duke Dorm. Though the Admissions Office
outdid themselves with the class of ’78 (note zinc and copper deposits outside the Capacity E.H. Little Library), it would
benefit the admission department to require a lock of each student’s hair with his application. Besides allowing the admissions office
positive proof of Davidson quality, such a policy, if adopted by all colleges, would tend to discourage students from applying
to a great many schools. And one practical application of the freshman largesse would be to create a special maintenance
crew to pick up our deposits, sell the zinc and copper to mining companies, and place the profits in the
Davidson endowment. But, a final word of advice for all the upperclassmen who are tearing their hair in a frenzy:
If you want to add more zinc to your diet, and hope it races up to your hair follicles, eat
oysters and pure maple syrup. For a superb culinary and cerebral feast, boil your oysters in maple syrup for dinner
tonight, and watch the freshmen quietly usurp your place at your eating club. (Note: For all those doubting Thomases, Adon
A. Gordus does exist and can be found on page 139 of the September-October 1973 issue of “The Saturday Evening
Post”).

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters on any subject from our readers. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words
in length and to make corrections in spelling and grammar. All letters must be signed.

“Now, what is this about a monkey on your back?”
