Chuck Haron, Professorial Demands Cause Acute Schizophrenia Blues

It has never ceased to amaze me that every professor at Davidson can continue to believe year after year that each of his students has but one purpose in existence: that of devoting his time, his energy, and his mental health to that one course of study. And as if I didn’t have enough to do, what with each of my professors subscribing to this belief, the time has suddenly arrived for me to map out my future as well. All of the procrastination regarding educational and vocational decisions (i.e., “What are you going to be when you graduate, young man?”) must cease. This month the Four Horsemen of the academic Apocalypse—law boards, med school tests, graduate record exams, and graduate fellowship applications—appear to carry the members of the senior class away into their respective futures.

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters on any subject from our readers. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length and to make corrections in spelling and grammar. All letters...

The combined pressures of pondering over one’s available post-Davidson options while trying at the same time to meet the day-to-day schedule of reading assignments, research, papers, etc., is easily enough to produce a case of acute schizophrenia blues. I offer myself as living proof, exhibit A. Now it has come to pass that in recent days I have noticed an interesting sidelight to this cause of mental anguish, namely the return to campus of so many recent graduates of this worrisome institution. Their return at first puzzled me, much as it does each fall when some spend more time here than they did when they were students. Why is it that they scurry back like half-weaned pups to suckle at the breast of Mother Davidson? Curiosity having got the best of me, I asked, and the unanimity of their responses was startling to say the least. They come back because they liked it here. Absence indeed makes the heart grow fonder, but even more importantly, one little taste of “the real world” is enough to make anyone long for these peaceful halls. Miraculously, it had been revealed to me why it is that alumni flock back home for even the dullest occasions. Davidson isn’t such a bad place after all.

Some, of course, leave Davidson never to return. Some, on the other hand, seem never to leave. So it is that as some go to med school and some study law, as some get into business and some study to teach, as some go to seminary and others go to hell, I may just refuse to leave. God be here. I want your job! Private note to those who remain uncommitted: Check out the pre-law committee, they throw a helluva beer party!

Wayne Gulledge

Factual Reporting Requires Freedom Of Student Press

At the time of this writing, the 1973-74 edition of Quips and Cranks is resting unbound because it ostensibly contains offensive material. And at stake is one of the most precious rights that we as students possess. The ramifications of the administration’s action in arresting distribution of the yearbook hold consequences worthy of careful consideration. More important than...

Gregg Allman Breaks Image In ‘Laid Back’ Rock-Blues Fusion

By LEE HUDSPETH
Staff Writer

Gregg Allman’s first solo album, “Laid Back,” was recorded in 1973 in Macon, Ga. However, some of the other artists involved in the album are also members—past and present—of The Allman Brothers Band; Mel “Jaimoe” Johanson on the drums, Chuck Leavell on the piano, and Scott Boyer on the guitar. The music is a culmination of many years of playing and experimenting with his brother Duane and eventually The Allman Brothers Band itself; his style and approach to music are deeply rooted in Southern blues and its development during...the beginning of his successful music career. The lyrics delve into both the good and bad in life; "All My Friends" is about concern for friends, lovers, and oneself; "Midnight Rider" is about escaping society; "Will the Circle Be Unbroken" is about death; "Multicolored Lady" is about a beautiful woman and her emotions. The music’s sound is a mixture of smooth, soft acoustic guitar mixed with some keyboards, electric guitar, saxophone, orchestration, and easy drums. "These Days" is the poignant and best song on Side Two, and its lyrics speak of introspection causing an inner awareness of failure, yet how such awareness can make for a better future if we don’t waste our days. It is a very emotional song as Allman sings, "these days I seem to be afraid to live the life I’ve made in song, but it’s just that I have been losin’ so long."

"Midnight Rider," the first song on Side One, is an earlier Allman Brothers classic, but it has variations. This arrangement is very powerful, led by heavy chords on an electric piano and electric and acoustic guitar leads. Between verses, there is a set of quality instrumentation on saxophones, other horns, strings, and the electric piano. The musical arrangement is a simple one, uniting a gentle acoustic guitar rhythm as the major component; a slide guitar accentuating the lyrical theme with a sad melody; and electric piano, organ, and bass all in the background. This lends a mood of determination and passion to the lyrics, which tell a vague story of a poor man’s struggle to make ends meet in a society out to get him. Such a desperate feeling is difficult to put into sound, but the band does a superb job.

Although the music is of fine caliber, the album taken as a whole begins to drag after frequent listenings. This is not to say that the individual songs lack vigor, just that the record as a totality is somewhat repetitive. This is probably because this is Gregg’s first attempt to break from his image as Duane Allman’s brother in The Allman Brothers Band and express himself.

The question of obscenity in the annual is the implication that student publications should portray life at Davidson, not as it is, but as we might wish it to be. The student press is intended to treat the Davidson experience accurately. Its function should not be one of public relations, but one of dealing with life as it is lived. The situation at hand will set a precedent. It will be tragic indeed if our yearbook becomes merely an idyllic reiteration of the statement of life at Davidson.

In a country where journalistic license is protected so long as it is non-libelous, to deny a body of mature and intelligent citizens the right to compile an unexpurgated record of the college experience is patently hypocritical. Aside from the inherent undesirability of censorship of any student publication, there is cause for concern about the precedent it sets. While the Board of Trustees never officially approved the existing SCA Constitution, which states explicitly that no student publication shall be subject to censorship, students and administrators alike had adhered to it in good faith until this year. Of course, it is arguable that for some reason, the case in question is so crucial as to take precedence over even our By-Laws. But "delegated" power which can be rescinded with such facility is not really delegated, but merely loaned.

Of those who would find the presentation of nudity in Quips and Cranks offensive, I would request a closer examination of the dilemma. The prospect of having our press actively monitored by the administration is singularly repugnant. To publish a laundered yearbook for distribution to both students and outsiders is an insidious form of deceit. Banality surely will never arouse, but it can flourish at Davidson only at great cost. Let us hope that we may preserve our liberty of expression.