The Davidsonian
March 15, 1974

Fifteen

Focus On Streaking Wimps
By CAPTAIN AMERICA and BUCKY

We greet you once again with some immortal words from Momma C. A. “Spring is sprung, the grass is riz,
I wonder where the birdies iz?” So much for English today.

For those of you who were locked away in the library before exams, the Gamms completed their stunning dark horse
run to the IMAC B-ball championship by defeating the Old Men in two consecutive games, 65-55 and 65-62. Ungodly outside
shooting by Bob “rainmaker” Sanders and steady play by the Stick, Chris Young, and Eddie Williamson provided the effort for
PGD. Bruce Simpson and Jimmy Greer also lent good jobs to the team as the Old Men finally ran out
of gas. So much for B-ball.

On the local scene, a new intramural sport has developed. It seems as if the first streaking contest took place
between C-III and W-III last Wednesday night. The challenge resulted because of an unmerciful pummeling given to W-III by the
Cannon crew in an earlier water engagement. Well, as Wednesday went, the rumors flew. Were those bare-butted buffoons actually going
to flaunt their wares before a hungry throng? To quote the Beatles, “they laid it down for all to see.”
History will remember them as the Davidson 16 (or for those of you who got a good look) the Cannon
32.

At the rumored starting of 8 p.m., there was a crowd of about 350 people armed with rulers and Brownie
Instamatics. Lined along the path from the Union to the gym, the crowd anxiously waited as Mark Connors' young cohorts
paced upstairs waiting for the inspiration they greatly needed. Suddenly from the back stairs, a flesh-colored blob staggered down the
hall. He...

Reawakened Hopes (Continued from page 14)

1. Who played right field for the 1959 White Sox?
2. Name the starting outfield of the 1950 Philadelphia Phillies.
3. Who holds the record for most career triples? Match the player with his team.
4. Mike De La Hoz
5. Jose Tartabull
6. Gino Cimoli
7. Elio Chacon
8. Merritt Ranew
(a) Kansas City A’s
(b) New York Mets
(c) Chicago Cubs
(d) Cleveland Indians
(e) Chicago White Sox
9. Who was voted “the greatest living Brave”?
10. Who said “It’s great to be young and a Giant”?

Scale:
10 correct - A True Fan! A mole with a brain
5-7 Fair
3-5 Find a baseball encyclopedia
Below 3 Are you sure basketball isn’t your sport?

Netters Rebuild (Continued from page 14)

This pressure will be applied by John Hutchins, Tom Blackwood, Bill Dupont, Ed Patton, and Dorsett. Frank took a look
at the conference race which begins very soon. “Appalachian would have to be the favorite at this point,” he said.
“They have everyone back from their top six, plus they have two fantastic recruits, one of whom has broken into
the starting lineup at the number two slot.” With the Mountaineers looking to be the team to beat and Furman
being right behind them, the Cats certainly have their work cut out for them as they set out to compete.

The conference tournament, which comes near the end of the season, will be held at Appalachian, which is another point
in favor of the Apps. Davidson does, however, play host to both of their top conference rivals in their regular
season. Other highlights of the home schedule include both matches with Duke and Carolina, the top teams in the Atlantic
Coast Conference. Presently, the Cats have a 1-1 record, having beaten a good Purdue team and losing to N.C. State.
Both matches were finished with 6-3 scores. One key statistic from these two matches is that the Cats have won
five of the six doubles encounters.

Dealer
THE SHOP
Electronics Unlimited
173 N. Main St.
663-4513
Mooresville, N.C.

...had arrived. They were ready now for Morris was there to lead them. A veteran of unknown years, papel “What
you see is what you get” Morris was ready for another in his long line of attempts to get “in
contact” with Linda Lovelace. Downstairs the word spread quickly and all eyes were focused about 3 feet above the ground
on the Cannon hall...Morris came, bursting hard, out of their enclosure. Morris led the way. But not for long. In
his old age, he was not able to hold the lead as Mark "Mr. Streak" Connors flashed into the lead.
(He has run a 9.5 hundred with a hurricane behind him, folks.) No cop was going to shackle this maniac.
His charges responded, tearing along the pathway, and as Connors neared Little, he felt his spider-senses tingling danger. Ambush ahead.
Connors flicked on his right blinker as he and his track comrade Bob "do it all" Lautensack hung a Ralph
for the pack to see. The ice-cold water flew at the bare-assed wonders, but the quickness of the turn managed
to avoid most of the deluge to the crowd’s dismay. Connors and Lautensack then led their boys across and around
infamous Watts Hall in a show of disrespect. Coming around the big bend towards home, the two leaders kicked in
the afterburners, leaving a swath of scorched grass for the rest to follow through the teeming masses that engulfed the
exhibitionists. A standing O greeted the weary walkers of the night as they avoided crushed glass, tip-toeing into their abode.
The challenge was made, but Watts simply could not back it. The crowd was definitely a bit teed.

After approximately 30 minutes of scattered water ballooning and obscene verbal abuse, a mad rush was made at the dorm
causing great unrest and despair in the upper confines of the sacred structure. Australian judges scored the Brazilian judge 14-2,
and the Swaziland judge 16-0, while the only dissenter was the East German judge who gave the girls a 17-16
split decision. We decline to comment on where the East German judge saw all that female flesh. The finals gave
C-III an undisputed 1-0 slate in streak standings. These reporters gathered several of the better comments to sum up the
campus reactions to this sensational new sport. Dr. Glenn Lindsey, "The Silverfox," had this to say when confronted in one
of his lectures: "This streaking is just a temporary thing, it will peter out in a week or so." Delt
stroller and ex-DAVIDSONIAN Editor-in-Chief Alec Hoon was hard to quote but finally came up with this gem: "Since strolling appeared
at schools, Big man on campus has taken on a new connotation." (Nice one, Hawk).

In this week’s top 10 streaking poll (voted on by 47% of the female population), the leaders are:
1) Steve Morris - this veteran hangs on to a slim lead through his year-long showing.
2) Mark Connors - the fastest streaker alive.
3) Carl Goodhouse - it was his birthday, folks.
4) Bob Lautensack - super organizer, good legs.
5) Super Chicken - a stroller, but a great one.
6) The EEL - another stroller but very colorful.
7) Steve "Rabbi" Peeples - young but shows promise.
8) Tom "Sweede" Conner and Bob Grizzard - streaked injured last week.
9) Terry Hummel - one of the better loose players.
10) The Hawk - what can we say?

The staff of WBTV will challenge a faculty-staff team of Davidson College in a benefit basketball game March 22 at
7:30 p.m. in Johnston Gym. Some of the more unusual features of the evening will include door prizes, men and
women on both teams, and play-by-play announcing by Ph. Masel.

MEN! — WOMEN! JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00
for information, SEAFAX, Dept. 4-14, P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362.

CARLO’S Jeans n' Things At Depression Prices 122 S. Main St., Anytown, S.C.

TWENTIETH CENTURY-FOX Presents A QUINN MARTIN PRODUCTION Music By JERRY GOLDSMITH
Friday, Mar. 15 8:00 & 10:30 P.M.
Starring ALAN ALDA, JACQUELINE BISSET, BARBARA PARKINS
Co-starring BRAD DILLMAN, WILLIAM WINDOM, KATHLEEN WIDDOES, PAMELYN FERDIN, and CURT JURGENS as Duranty
Produced By QUINN MARTIN
Directed By PAUL WENDKOS
Co-feature: Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein
Based on the Novel by FRED MUSTARD STEWART
Love Auditorium Admission $.75
