Steve Canterbury
The Davidsonian - February 1, 1974

Seven Madam’s Cosmetics Conceal Wrinkles

Grover went to the door. Standing upon the porch of the House of Madam Davidson was a group of gentlemen.
They were too old to be students, so Grover was hesitant.

“And what do you wish?” the tall butler asked.

“Suh, we the visita’s board with the self-study committa,” an old white-haired gentleman said. “I’m fum the Univesita.”

Grover remembered 10 years ago. He knew what to do. “Oh yes, gentlemen.” Grover, relieved that his introduction of the
House was over, hurried to tell the Madam that her visitors had arrived.

Old Jack, pushing his broom and cursing Lade Chemistry, was on his way to say a few things to the
Self-Study Board. But Grover caught the bow-tied Welshman and sent him away. One must make a good impression, Grover thought.

The Madam entered. She was wearing more make-up than usual. Her rolls of fat rippled as she walked. She smiled
courteously to her visitors and half-sat, half-lay down in an easy chair.

“Hi ya, boys. How’s it hangin’ wit’ ya?”

“Madam, ten yeahs is a long time. But we ahr heah on bizness as uswell. We have cum to inspect.”

“An’ watcha wanna see, boys?” the Madam winked.

“Yo finances, if yew please ma’am.”

“Why cet’ly. Coin Dog, come show da boys da buks.”

Bespectacled Coin Dog carried a huge volume of obscure figures. The round man said, “The Madam will be with you
in a moment. This, of course, is our operating budget through this year. If you really want to see past
figures, I can show each of them to you, but mainly keeping in mind that we are a NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION.”

Eddie, the Bounce, appeared from around the corner. In his left hand was a switch-blade; in his right was the
arm of an unfortunate young man. Softly, convincingly, Eddie explained, “I caught him trying to sneak in.”

The visitor's board, who were all educators, did not want to appear foolish and so asked no questions. Coin Dog
excused himself and went back to his hideaway.

“I don’t believe that we have to show him the exit. By the way, son, what’s your name?”

“Johnny Rockefeller,” the boy timidly told the bouncer.

“Ahem, well why don’t we step back into my room to see if you would maybe want the early decision
plan, son. Davidson’s just the...” Eddie, with his arm around the boy, left the parlor.

“Gents, anythin’ else on yer mind?”

---

Reel to Reel Reviews: ‘Don’t Look Now’

Nicolas Roeg, the maker of “Don’t Look Now,” has had an up-and-down career, and his new film is one of
the downs. Before becoming a director, Roeg was a very fine cinematographer (“Petula,” “Far From the Madding Crowd”). Although his
first directorial effort, “Performance,” is one of the most aggressively bad films I have seen, it is distinguished by several
excellent performances and by Roeg’s cinematography, his best ever.

Coming as it does between two chilling bores, Roeg’s second film, “Walkabout,” is surprisingly good. A beautiful love-poem to life
in the state of nature, its setting is the vast, sunlit stretches of the Australian desert, where Roeg had few
opportunities to suffocate us with the dark, fetid camera movements he seems to love.

Unfortunately, “Don’t Look Now” returns us to the world of the present, where Roeg has a prophetic vision of mankind
as a herd of disintegrating oxen. Roeg’s content is more often absent than bad. If his films are to succeed,
it is because of how things are done rather than what is done.

In one way, “Don’t Look Now” is a step forward. “Performance” was brutally edited in a choppy, arbitrary fashion. “Walkabout”
was more smooth and less daring (or foolish). “Don’t Look Now” combines the smoothness of the second film with the
daring of the first.

A better example is the climax of the film. Donald Sutherland’s neck is cut, and then we shift into a
prolonged sequence of images which have kept recurring throughout the film.The Madam knew that there was, but the men were
there on business and “No, ma’am, we got to be a-goin’ now. It’s be-yan a ushwell.”

The Madam chuckled to herself and turned off the light. Jack was released from the broom closet where he had
been detained. Young Rockefeller was enrolled with his 1977 (Rockefellers have their ways) Lincoln. Things were going typically well.

“Grover,” the Madam instructed, “Don’t forget to pay that Avon lady who came by this morning.”
“Yes, Madam Davidson.”

In at least one restaurant in the great state, 50 cents can buy a hot meal that will leave you
wondering whether you can hold the dessert that comes for an extra dime. The last time I went to St.
Andrew's College to see my friend, the living embodiment of meaning and truth, we buoyed each other into the let's-go-slumming
euphoria necessary to take on the second-best restaurant in Laurinburg—Norma’s.

Leaving the street, one enters a room cluttered with rarely filled tables and is immediately attracted by the kitchen which
stands open in the rear. There are no rules, no waiters, nothing but intuition to carry the diner to the
kitchen to order a meat (chicken or ham) and three vegetables from a choice of five. Without ceremony or delay,
Norma then spoons out the portions and dismisses her customers to the tables.

Eating in that large room, thoughts of all the boxed-on-the-ground airline meals I have ever had are abruptly shattered by
Norma’s scream, “Don’t rare back in the chair; it loosens the legs!” The other customers stop eating to glare on
disapprovingly, and casting my eyes to the shower tile floor, I remember eighth grade gym and the echo of the
coach’s voice upon catching me taking two towels instead of one to dry off with.

Norma’s food ain’t dainty—her distinction comes from her prices and the unique character of the place she runs. With three
meals every day to take chances on, anyone in Laurinburg can well afford to squander one on Norma’s. Besides that,
it’s the second-best place in town.

For those of you who think of Midwinters as something special, I put a lot of time and thought into
trying to find a good and heretofore unknown restaurant in the area to fit the occasion. Steak joints, fish camps,
and other single-specialty eateries are commonplace and can be treated in subsequent columns. I had hoped to find within 20
miles of Chambers a versatile restaurant to meet all the demands of any Saturday night gourmet. The slag of this
dream is Valentino’s. Offering an impressive variety of entrees, their specialty, as the name implies, is Italian food. Three of
us ate there Monday night to give it a try and found it to be worth a B-plus in anyone’s
gradebook. Pete Celentano, who would know, ordered ziti and was given rigatoni. Otherwise, the lasagne and spaghetti are as good
as any that I have found in Charlotte. Prices on these delights are slightly higher than at the Open Kitchen,
excepting Valentino’s wine list, which is very reasonable.

According to our New Jersey friends, Valentino’s probably ranks as just another Southern rendition of an Italian restaurant, but fairness
and mercy force me to consider also its location in Charlotte and raise its rating accordingly. One block from the
coliseum and across the street from Golf, Valentino’s should be added to the Davidson diner’s dining list and will be
a suitable place to take the basketball team after they beat Notre Dame.

End Notes: Food, once the treat of the nocturnal elite, has been closed by the Revenue Service. The owners failed
to pay their taxes. And finally, memories of Lynn Dean laughing in the night force me to offer up this
Midwinters cheap thrill somewhat akin to the euphoria derived from you-know-what. Combine a half cup of dry oatmeal with a
half cup of brown sugar, and eat this at your own risk along with a large glass of water. Then
sit back and try to think of all the stupid things you have done in your life while awaiting the
sensation of the ingredients swelling in your stomach.
