Che Vol. LXIV, No. Seven Haun Published Weekly By Davidson College Students: | Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

By MARK WILENSKY Managing Editor

The 1973-74 edition of Quips and Cranks was not distributed last Thursday because of what has come to be called "an act of censorship." While misconceptions and misinterpretations seem to be the rule when the yearbook is discussed, one thing is generally agreed upon: the president’s office has censored the book.

Yearbook Editor Jeff George had scheduled the distribution of the annual for Thursday, Oct. 17. The books were to be delivered late Wednesday. George claims the book was "all ready to go" right up to Tuesday night, and that he had no inkling of any problem. On Tuesday, unknown to George, a member of the yearbook publishing company called College Business Manager Robert A. Currie. He inquired of Currie about Davidson’s desires regarding the printing of George’s yearbook. "Nobody questioned me," George said. "I had no idea that there was any problem whatsoever."

It was explained to Currie that the book contained "questionable" material. Currie was to be in Charlotte on business Wednesday anyway, and it was decided that he would pick up a copy of the parts in question before a decision was made on the book’s printing. It is unclear why the publisher contacted Currie.

Under Davidson’s system of funding student organizations, all activities’ money is collected by the college through the activities fee in the comprehensive fee payment. Once the money is collected (actually in the spring before the collection), the campus tax council meets to appropriate the activities money. Beginning July 1, officers of the various organizations are authorized to spend the allocations. In order to receive the funds appropriated, each organization must submit vouchers or bills to the college comptroller’s office. Checks are issued twice weekly, signed by Business Manager Currie. This system by which Currie has to sign all checks led George to bring him in as a co-signer on the contract. Currie was called by the publisher.

While some organizations funded by campus tax get both activities and college-produced fees, Quips and Cranks is run solely on student fees. Each 1973-74 Davidson student has thus already paid for his book. When Currie returned to the college with the pages of the yearbook the publisher deemed questionable, the matter was then taken from his hands. That Wednesday was college conference day, and Dean of Students Will Terry claims to have been too busy in that venture to have had any input on the decisions of that day. Informed sources disagree as to the extent of Terry’s involvement, but it is agreed upon that Academic Vice-President John M. Bevan, possibly in concert with Terry and College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., made the decision that the pages in question should be removed from the book.

It is George’s belief that this is why Spencer cited "Executive Privilege." Currie informed the publishing company that this decision had been made, and that he would issue no check for the remainder of the money due. The books were all printed, laying at the print shop, unbound. They remain there today. On Thursday, George called the publishing company to find out where the books were.This time the publisher informed him of the college’s move in censoring the annual. Thursday afternoon, student inquirers were told by Dean Terry’s office that the books were not in. Terry’s secretary (accurately according to Terry) disclaimed any knowledge of the book’s whereabouts and sent questioning students to Currie’s office. Terry himself saw a copy of the pages and knew of the decision by at the latest Thursday morning. A number of students have claimed that they were deliberately misled by the dean’s office. While Terry denies this, George claims he was told by the dean that Terry was purposefully not giving students the information on the books’ situation. By Friday, it was becoming fairly well known on campus that the books were under some form of censorship.

Being censored were two frontal pictures of male “streakers” and two captions; one quoting the lead line of a DAVIDSONIAN editorial, the other using a four-letter word for copulation. On Friday noon, George and SGA President Blain Butner met with Spencer. They were told that the censorship was his decision and that the “questionable material” could not be used in the book. “We discussed and offered compromise,” Butner and George agreed, “but the president indicated that he would not compromise. He informed us that we could appeal his decision to the Board of Trustees.”

On Sunday night at 11 p.m., student representatives of campus organizations met in the SGA office to discuss the administration’s decision. It was decided to appeal to the trustees, and if necessary, to go to court. It was at this meeting that the letter to the college community, the SGA resolution, and the campus-wide petitions were discussed and set in motion. In addition, posters were put up publicizing the issue.

On Monday, Spencer received a letter from George explaining his desire to appeal the decision to the trustees. At a luncheon meeting with representative students, Spencer explained (See related stories, page 3) trustee Student Life Committee. “After the appeal to the trustees, we are hopeful that our yearbook will be delivered in an uncensored form,” said WDAV News Director Scott Reid. “If not, we will go to court.” Numerous national student organization representatives have been contacted, according to Butner, and all are interested in helping. “It seems as though a lot of people are concerned over a private college’s claim to censorship powers,” he said.

The Charlotte law firms of Blum and Sheely and George Daly have also been contacted. If the appeal to the trustees fails, students say they are prepared to go to the Charlotte newspapers and to court. An attorney contacted unofficially by one student representative claims that the case is clearly in favor of the students in any merit charges of obscenity. He sees only a jurisdictional question, though he points out that the state constitution clearly states that “there can be no interference with freedom of the press.”

With the issue now passed through official groups such as the SGA and unofficial student groups, and ruled upon by the president, the next move is up to the Board of Trustees.