September 13, 1974

The Davidsonian

Debaters Practice Locution, Grab Fourteenth In Country

Coming off the end of one of the best workshops ever, the Davidson College Debate Team moves forward in anticipation of its best season in many years. Captain Paul Mitchell, a senior from Thomasville, N.C., expressed satisfaction in the work that has been done thus far by the debaters. “I think we are definitely in for the best season we have ever had,” Mitchell predicted. “And that includes being ranked in the Top Twenty the past two years.”

Davidson moved up to fourteenth nationally in its division. No other team in this area of comparable size came close to this excellent position. Mitchell outlined his reasons for being so optimistic about the coming season. “First, we have what I expect to be three solid varsity teams. This will be the first year since I have been here that we have been so strong on the varsity level.

“Second, we have what is shaping up to be an excellent novice team. We could also be blessed with some surprises on both levels.

“Finally, we are gathering more evidence, which is quality research, for the first time in a long while.”

The team met for the first time on Sept. 3 to begin the workshop. Two members, Peyton Marshall and Tony Snow, both sophomores, had been working for a week gathering preliminary evidence for the team. “Snow and Marshall have definitely given us a lot of assistance by their early work,” said Mitchell. “They are a crackerjack team from last year and should be able to compete with any team in the country.”

The topic for the season is “Resolved: That the power of the Presidency should be significantly curtailed.” Mitchell termed this “mind-boggling” and should prove exciting.

Contributors this week include Frank Stiefel. Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Wildcats are defending champions in both the varsity and novice divisions at the event. Mitchell considers UNC, which finished second in the country last year, as the top competition in this area for Davidson. “Richmond is always our arch-rival, and they have a strong program,” Mitchell said, adding, “but UNC-G is always a pain-in-the-tail.”

The team is pointing for the Peachtree Debates at Emory University as their yardstick for the season. This tournament takes place during the first weekend in November. At the present time, the team has invitations to a great number of tournaments. Those which the squad will accept include Catawba, UNC-Wilmington, Appalachian, and others.

WDAV Hierarchy

The question of the future expansion of WDAV-FM is of prime concern to both the college administrators and the student station managers. At the end of August, college President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. sent a letter to Station Managers Mark Wilensky and Bucky Neal explaining a change in college policy concerning the station. The letter explained that Director of the News Bureau Earl Lawrimore would assume direct control of the station’s day-to-day activities. In addition, Spencer explained that...The Board of Trustees is giving prior consideration to expanding WDAV’s power to 50,000 FM watts. Under such a setup, professional radio personnel would be brought in to run the station. On Wednesday, Station Manager tendered his resignation. Davidson College, Washington and Lee, and Peachtree. The team is the defending champion at both Catawba and UNC-W. Jean Cornell, coach of the nationally ranked debaters, expressed optimistic hopes, along the same lines as Mitchell. “We have been working harder this year than ever before,” she said. “I think we have a good group of experienced speakers returning, as well as a fine number of freshmen. This year, as well as the near future, looks very good for Davidson debate.” Although her husband, the former Vice President for Finance and Development C. David Cornell, has resigned, Mrs. Cornell will remain with the team at least for the remainder of this year.

“50,000 watts,” Wilensky said. “This means the station will become a tool of the college public relations program and not an educational means of student expression. My initial reaction is that the college ought to build a brand new 50,000-watt station for their purposes and leave this one for the students,” Wilensky concluded. According to the station manager, the proposed 50,000-watt station would basically program classical educational programs and college-related topics. Lawrimore had been an advisor to the station since the beginning. Wilensky pointed out that Lawrimore’s added responsibilities would do little to change the structure of the station. He expressed that Lawrimore’s music during the change.

SANIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

All announcers working with the station must have third-class broadcasting licenses. Due to a mix-up last spring, most staff members’ licenses are about to expire. A special test will be administered on the campus in the near future. During the summer months, WDAV continued to receive new records and is now ready according to Wilensky. “We still need to fill some positions. This is a good chance for some new people or some freshmen to participate.” “I hope we can get a lot of people involved. No experience or expertise is needed. Anyone who is interested will be on the staff,” he indicated.

Lawrimore expressed confidence that the new hierarchy would have a positive effect on the station and its programming. “We expect new Director of Communications Martha Byrd to help also in upgrading the quality of the station programming,” Lawrimore said. “Engineer Don Smith is back, and we’re ready to go,” Wilensky added. “I hope that any student or faculty member with an interest in radio will contact me in the WDAV office right away,” Wilensky said.

Union continued from page 3, according to Marshall. Along with these activities, many others are included to appeal to all types of students as well as to enrich the Davidson experience, he said.