April 5, 1974

Cats Snap ‘Streak With 8-1 Net Win

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

The Davidson tennis team snapped a two-match losing streak Wednesday afternoon with a close 6-5 win over the squad from
Harvard. Bill Allen led the Cats by winning the number one singles position, 6-1, 6-4. There were seven singles matches,
making for the large final.

Head coach Jeff Frank praised Allen for his efforts saying, “Bill has really been playing well lately. When he gets
beat, it is not due to his poor performance. It is because his opponent is just playing superb tennis.”

The Cats had lost to both South Carolina and Duke by identical scores of 8-1. In both matches, the Cats
scratched only in the first doubles slot with Allen teaming with Rick Quinby for the wins. “We are really getting
some great results from Rick and Bill at the top doubles,” commented Frank. “Now they have wins against State, South
Carolina, and Duke. That is a pretty impressive record for anyone.” Frank also had high regards for the number one
player from Duke, Mark Meyers. “He is the classiest player we will see all year,” Frank said.

TIME OUT with MARK WILENSKY

We have new head football and basketball coaches. Jeff Frank has been here not quite two years. Chip Stone coached
Davidson soccer for the first time last season. Where have the Foglemans, the Smiths, and the Driesells gone? In the
last two years Davidson has lost its head coaches in football, basketball, tennis, and soccer. At the same time, the
Wildcats are experiencing a change in Athletic Directors, with Thom Cartmill replacing Tom Scott.

Athletic schedules are made up years in advance. Because they are, Davidson may now be over-scheduled. When Harry Fogleman was
collecting Southern Conference tennis championships, the level of our competition was increased. Now, before Jeff Frank has had any reasonable
amount of time to develop a tennis program of his own, he is faced with a schedule so murderous that
breaking even looks to be a realistic goal.

The same is true of Bo Brickels in basketball. Bo wasn’t just kidding when he said that he couldn’t guarantee
he’d still be happy next winter. His schedule is a killer, and unless he gets that elusive big man, Bo
stands to be hard-pressed to remain afloat.

What needs to be done? Perhaps a re-evaluation of Davidson’s athletic policy. It took four long years and the sacrificing
of a head coach, but Davidson finally realized that playing East Carolina and Air Force in football was an exercise
in futility. Ed Farrell is here and is perhaps the only coach of the four big sports playing a reasonable
schedule. The football program is on the way up.

While down-scheduling worked in football, it is not the answer in basketball. Recruiting is. Basketball is king here and with
money combined with Brickels’ personality, perhaps the Cats get the people needed to continue as a top team. Perhaps.

Tennis players used to flock here to play for Fogleman. Until Frank gets a chance to develop a program, they
will go elsewhere. It’s rare that the Cats play a tennis or soccer team that doesn’t have players on scholarship.
The teams Davidson plays are increasing their scholarships each year. How much longer can the Wildcats count on getting enough
“walk-ons” to compete? I think the season records lately show that the luck is about to run out.

Davidson has got to support or they’ll go the same way as it was necessary to down-schedule. That can be
avoided in the cases of tennis and soccer. The ball is now in Cartmill’s court. It’s obvious that our Athletic
program is not what it once was. In what sport can you be sure that Davidson has the best team
in even the Southern Conference? Davidson players should not have to pay their own ways to England. Tennis scholarships are
needed. A program must be developed to do so. Driesell, Smith, Fogleman, and Holland are gone. Let’s give Farrell, Frank,
Stone, and Brickels a chance."He just plays super tennis." Meyers is the defending champion in the Atlantic Coast Conference. One
of the other key players in the Harvard victory was Gary Bressler, a senior who plays in the number three
singles position. Bressler took a relatively easy 6-0, 6-4 win. Frank also expressed his feeling that Bressler was playing very
well for the Cats. Steve Holman took the victory at the fifth singles slot. His win came by a score
of 6-1, 6-4. John Hutchens rounded out the Cat victories in the singles competition by taking a 6-2, 6-2 win
at the newly invented seventh singles. The doubles were split with the Davidson duos winning the top two seedings. Allen
and Quinby teamed together to gain the edge in the number one singles by a score of 8-5 in a
professional doubles set. The pro set is designed to save time by limiting play to usually one set, playing that
section to eight games for a minimum winning number. Bressler then teamed with Jim Dorsett to take the top spot
in the number two doubles position, 8-6. The win places the Cats at 5-7 for the season with three matches
on tap for this weekend. On Friday the Cats will host William and Mary in a key Southern Conference encounter.
Frank noted the importance of this match because of the relative strength of Davidson in comparison to the Indians. "We
really need to win this one because of the great advantage that Appalachian and Furman have in the conference race
with scholarships," Frank explained. "We are both pretty close together."

shh! we learn more by listening

The Quret Company
Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036

EYE ON THE BALL
Top speed Bill Allen intently watches the ball as he prepares to hit his forehand return. The Cats then host
Richmond on Saturday, while The Citadel comes to town on Sunday. Three games in three days is a tall order,
but Frank is hoping for the best, remembering that the team could get above .500 for the first time this
season. Frank turned to some brighter notes by saying that he has gotten a very high prospect to come to
Davidson next fall. Chip Bondurant, a top junior player in Florida, has decided to come play tennis for the Cats.
Frank expressed his pleasure at Bondurant’s choice, saying, "We have gotten him away from some other schools with scholarships. That
has to be saying something. He is just a super player and will really help our program."

Frank went on to state that Bondurant will be counted upon heavily as a freshman next season, especially due to
the Cats' loss of five of 11 team members and the top three singles players. Looking at the schedule for
the rest of the season, Frank was optimistic, depending to a great extent on how well the Cats do this
weekend. Needless to say, Frank is holding out for a three-game sweep and the chance to get the squad above
the even mark for its won-lost record for the rest of the season. The William and Mary match will be
the opening conference game for the Cats. They definitely need to get a head start before Appalachian and Furman come
to Davidson on successive days later in the campaign.

protect yourself against muggers, rapists, and worse with this amazing new whistle. Wear it as a necklace or carry it
as a key chain. Its long-range penetrating shrill brings help in a hurry. The next dark night (that’s tonight!) you'll
feel a lot safer just knowing you have the greatest protection in the world. Gives obscene phone callers a shrilling
earful, too. GET IT BEFORE YOU NEED IT!

— Key Chain Necklace

Yes! I want to be saved! Send me the complete Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53209 Family Jewels Ltd. 3431 West Villard Avenue

I enclose $5.00 for each London-Like Whistle. I understand that if I am not totally satisfied, I will receive a
refund if returned in 10 days.

NAME
STREET NUMBER
CITY
