May 10, 1974 Three The Davidsonian
“I'm a Mean, mean woman.” Janis Joplin

Varied Appraisals Offered By Coeds

By SUSAN IVEY

This article is being written in an attempt to do something I believe cannot be done: in a small space to capture some of the flavor of what Davidson is like for the freshman co-eds.

Generalizations about anything are usually misleading, especially when they touch on something so personal as what life is like. To prevent this being a one-sided tirade, a semi-random survey was taken; kindly refrain from making any statistical inferences.

Each student brings different experiences to Davidson with him and so reacts differently to each situation, furthermore, we all come here with different intents. For most of those interviewed, the main factors influencing decisions to attend Davidson were parental influence, family tradition, and the reputation and size of the school.

Visiting the campus also seems to be a big plus; parents as well as students are generally impressed. As to the rumor that girls come to Davidson because of the ratio, let me point out that the ratio is definitely on a downhill course, that lots of other schools have much better (from the girls’ point of view) ratios, and as an unfortunate and sadly funny incident earlier this year succinctly pointed out, ratios don’t really mean anything.

One coed did point out an unexpected benefit from the high male to female ratio: it is easier to become a member of a group and consequently “develop close relationships that will last after you part” but aren’t dating or “love affair” oriented.

For freshmen, orientation is an all-important first contact with a new set of surroundings. Later, memories of that first hectic week fade, but the remaining impression is that very little was accomplished in the way of actually getting to know other people. Suggestion for next year: fewer speakers and more time allotted to discussions.

Meeting one’s advisor is also an affair of great moment-- after all, this is the first contact with that amorphous and all-powerful group known as “the faculty.” Most contacts with advisors seem to have been pleasant and effective, although one co-ed pointed out “I really have no contact with him except to sign my schedule cards or eat dinner.” Once again, lack of time seems to be the villain.

Area requirements are one of the scariest parts of the curriculum; I somehow managed to get the befuddled idea that they all had to be met in the first two years—sheer panic. As one respondent said: “Area requirements are a pain, but they do force one to broaden views by taking courses that otherwise wouldn’t be taken.” Some doubts were expressed about the necessity of the language and religion requirements specifically.

Now for a list of most enjoyable courses, these were the responses: Psychology 102; edible plants seminar and medieval art; humanities; Religion 101, Biology and Shakespeare. Least enjoyable were French, Latin (twice), English 21, Psychology 102, and Sociology 115. How’s that for demonstrating the variety among the co-eds?

Opinion about the P.E. requirements was slightly more unified; most seemed to feel that the requirements are vague and that the present program is weak. Time is a major factor involved: a few people suggested making P.E. a full credit course along with courses in philosophy of sport and first aid. There was also general resentment at being forced to take part in what should be an activity engaged in for personal pleasure.

There seemed to be some question about the existence or non-existence of social life at Davidson. As someone pointed out, “Forty percent of the students take off on the weekends. The ones that remain just party. Yes, I guess you could call that social life. It exists.” Then there was the response, “Social life here is great as far as I’m concerned.” Perhaps the most poignant was this reply: “Davidson is a lonely place for a lot of people.”

Most people see the average David-

received by Dr. Gaige,

Jeans n' Things
At Depression Prices

122 S. Main St.
Mooresville, N. C.

Piedmont Insurance

137 NORTH MAIN STREET • P.O. BOX 2348
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036
PHONE. 892-8054

Where the good things are!

Cornelius, N. C. 892-8468

This is one area at Davidson that can be improved and enlarged with less effort than some of our other programs, but lately there has been no effort put into it. To illustrate:

In September, over a dozen letters from students at other colleges and universities were received by Dr. Gaige, requesting information about our foreign study programs. Each letter was filed away, unanswered, not even acknowledged, until brochures were printed in late December.

By that time, of course, all the inquirers had given up on us and found other programs.

Ellen Spencer, Dr. Spencer’s daughter, had participated in our JYA-Germany and had recommended it to a classmate at her college. The friend received no reply to three letters to our Office of International Education.

The last day of classes is

OLE Needs Interested Director

(Continued from page 2)

doing it.
Unfortunately, the foreign study program at Davidson is not large enough yet to warrant hiring a full-time director. (Gaige is only teaching a half-course load.) But we do need a coordinator who is not indifferent to foreign study and who would like to see international education expanded to its full opportunities and benefits.

seminar), a master at organization, who has a genuine interest in and dedication to study abroad. However, Dr. Labban cannot be expected to take the job, nor can any other professor who

Unless someone is found who has the time to devote to international education and who wants to give his all to its development, the future of this innovation in

Bob Doares, '76
Davidson College