Fourteen __ December 13, 1974

The Bawideenten Gozinyas, Tribe Named B-Ball Top By C.A. and Y.B.

Hello there, fellow denyers of unreality, it’s that time again. ABC and the NGAA are proud to introduce another exciting
year of IMAC basketball, the world’s finest sport! We welcome you to another year of fights, arguments, no conscience shooting,
and absolutely zero defense. But first, we’d like to congratulate the SAE’s on their second consecutive IMAC flickerball title. They
beat the KA’s 33-20, and if Peyton Prospere comes back for a sixth year, they ought to do something about
his excess eligibility.

We’ve got so much info we're going to start into it right away without the usual six paragraphs of introductory
bullshit. The Kerwood Derbies seem like they’ve finally got it together after two years of frustration. The added depth of
Tex Collins and Rick McKenzie should put them among the front winners. Veteran Brad Sebastian Richardson scored 13 to pace
a well-balanced Derby attack to a 47-31 victory over PAX, despite the Human Beachball’s 12 trash points.

In an unbelievable game, House A defeated Cannon III 81-12. Can you believe that nonsense, a freshman team defeating another
freshman team by 69 points? Cannon III ought to shoot their IMAC representative for not knowing the difference between A
and B. After they do that, they ought to consider shooting themselves, do us all a favor. Sixty-nine points! Seems
Cannon III breeds turkeys, though it'll be hard to be as spastic as last year’s Cannon III’s. Anyhow, keep up
the good work, and don’t trip on the way to the library.

A squad by the rather peculiar name of Beetle Leg looked tough defeating the KA’s 62-46. Beetle Leg is what’s
left of the Little Big Men plus Randy Wags and Pat Flannigan, the Goon who took his big salary to
a contender for the crown—instead of scoring 50 a game for the AT Zeroes. Delt II defeated ETC. 85-43 despite
the zero points by ETC.’s Mike Pappas. The Delts look fairly powerful with the down-and-out duo of Puma Pomeroy and
Space King Tim Barr scoring 48.

Ah yes, the Tribe appears again. The lackadaisical yet apathetic Cleveland Indians nipped a surprisingly strong Richardson I Starfukker team
(Hello, Steve Canterbury) 62-52. The Tribe, with a host of talent and a lot of other things, look to be
co-favorites for the throne with the Gozinyas. Picture yourself in a boat on a river. Delt III couldn’t keep up
with the remains of Hoboken Shark as they were tubbed 54-17. The remains, calling themselves Old Rooney, probably should be
named The Flying E’s, Ely Ely, the Big E. Delt III is noticeable only for their Jimmy the Freak Takes
Off.

Figures Fly Hot and Heavy

If you’re thinking that, by the title, this is a take-off on Jimmy the Greek’s column, exactly. I have been
whipping “the Greek” on all of the spreads this year on both college and pro football games. (If you don’t
believe me, just ask around.) I know a lot of you don’t even know what a spread is, but I
will offer one definition—the amount of points given to the underdog to make the game even, in my opinion. In
the coming weeks, I will offer not only spreads but odds on basketball, football, hockey, racing (primarily for Slagle), and
other sports.

Now that I have established my reputation and told you my set-up, this introductory article will be devoted solely to
the upcoming college bowl games. (These are subject to change because of injuries.)

Sun Bowl—I’d just as soon see Grand Canyon U. play Mesa County Community College, but we’re stuck with North Carolina
against Mississippi State. N.C. must get the “Porous Award” for giving up 42 points to Army! Even though Kupec passes
for about 60-65 percent, I make it State by four points, as they are coming off of a rougher schedule.

Fiesta Bowl—I’ve renamed this one the “Fiasto Bowl.” Oklahoma State has had a very inconsistent year, recently beating Oklahoma. On
the basis of that and Gary Sheide’s strong right arm, I make it Oklahoma State by 7.

Sugar Bowl—Florida-Nebraska—Nebraska has been overshadowed by their Big 8 rival Oklahoma all season, but they still have a better team
than Florida, who is up and down. Nebraska by 10.

Liberty Bowl—Tennessee-Maryland—I was kind of counting on seeing American U. play Stephen F. Austin, but the selection committee decided against
it. Tennessee was chosen because they were the only team left and they play in the SEC, and also they
were the only team brave enough to go up against Randy White. This should not be close. Maryland by 11.

Peach Bowl—Vanderbilt-Texas Tech—Frankly, I label this one as a WC bowl (Who Cares), but I’ll give this game a couple
of lines anyway. Vanderbilt is in the same condition as Tennessee and Tech was blown out of that hotly-contested SWC
race. Since I don’t care, I’ll make it even and let you pick this one.

Tangerine Bowl—Georgia-Miami of Ohio—If Miami is as good as the pollsters say, why are they (9-0-1) playing ateam that is
65? Miami has had only two real tough games all season, so I am going out on a limb for
an upset. Georgia by 1.

Gator Bowl—Texas-Auburn—very good football teams have been pushed into this somewhat minor bowl by Baylor and Alabama. This game, however,
will be as good, if not better than most of the four major games. It shapes up as Texas offense
vs. Auburn defense. It is hard to tell how Texas feels about not playing in their Cotton Bowl, but I
will throw in some bias and pick Texas by 3 over Shug’s group (I don’t think “the Greek” will like
my pick on this one).

Bluebonnet Bowl—Houston-N.C. State—A classic matchup of offense vs. offense. Earlier in the season, I would have picked Houston by a
bundle. Houston, however, just lost to a suspect Tulsa team by 16 points (sorry, Jay) and N.C. State has been
beating respectable teams. I’ll take N.C. State by 2.

Rose Bowl—Ohio State-Southern California—This compares to the Bluebonnet Bowl in that a couple of weeks ago, I would have picked
Ohio State in a romp. But things have changed. State can’t get into the end zone, but A.D. can. So,
it’s U.S.C. by 5.

Orange Bowl—Alabama-Notre Dame—It’s too bad this year’s game won't be as good as last year’s. The Tide wants revenge and
will get it. With “Bear” playing 60 players, Alabama by 17.

Cotton Bowl—Baylor-Penn State—Is this the Baylor that was getting beat by Texas by 50 points a couple of years ago?
Yes, and they are “sky high.” But that won’t help them against a bowl-experienced Penn State team. Penn State by
8.

I would like to conclude this bowl preview by giving “Screw Job” Awards to Michigan, Oklahoma, and Texas A&M for
not appearing in a bowl. Also, I know many fans are interested in small colleges, so I pick Delaware by
7 over Central Michigan for the college division championship.

Justice for Farmworkers. Boycott Gallo wines.

Kutcher, right guard 210, Hamilton, left forward 215, West, left guard 205, McShane, anywhere he wants 210, and at center
Tom (Reverend Big) 112. Anyone want to draw a charge? (For added effect, say the last line like Abbo.)

Meanwhile, Delt I (note for frosh: there are at least two 200,000 Delt teams, you’ll never be able to tell
the difference, and if you beat them they’ll serve you for breakfast the next day) destroyed SAE II 72-39 behind
a balanced attack. In a big upset, I Felta Thi beat Faculty A 43-42. Faculty A, missing the services of
Rah Rah Friars and not helped at all by the once-in-a-blue-moon appearance of Chip Stone (who really wasn’t there anyhow),
couldn’t cope with Larry Urban’s six last-half goals. Coach Kirby Combe had this to say about the win, “we wanted
this one, it wouldn’t have mattered if Coach Larranaga had showed up.”

In Monday’s games, freshman upstarts the Possums nipped the Delphi Bureau 54-53. The Delphi Bureau, pretty much the old Ghetto,
was missing the services of center Charles Bethea and should be a prime contender upon his return. The Possums were
led by Mike (the Polish Rifle) Peshosky’s 24. SAE I, featuring who else but the Ancient Mariner himself, Peyton Prospere,
used tight D and strong boards to whip Delt IV 58-2. There are possibly more Delt teams than Pharaohs of
the 112th dynasty (quick, check your Geach notes, library rats) and Delt IV is nothing special. The SAE’s are a
contender, however, look for them to be in the title picture—title picture comes on Channel 36 after Late Afternoon Matinee.

In a great IMAC game, Six-Pack defeated Cannon II 39-32. The Six-Pack used a box zone and sent Bob (I
only go right) Lauder’s deep. Saunders got two points, a 15-footer (not bad for a guy wearing a sling) and
Tom Fleischer scored 17 to lead the Foamy’s. The SPE’s applied a too-tight jock to the Gnads and cupped them
48-36. The SPE’s fortunes don’t look as bright as they once did, due to the loss of Ed Yeaton to
the basketball program. The Sig Eps did recruit Air Ball Horton, rather dubiously we might add, and will make up
for their deficiencies with enthusiasm. Look for Pee Wee Plowman to score a bunch.

Sorry if we didn’t catch your act this week. We'll catch you later. You B Leaguers better be prepared for
Beachball and the Mad Thinker’s column next week as they’re going to write on your atrocities. You scorers please keep
individual stats so we'll have something to report. This column’s going big time, splitting like an amoeba, and anyone who
likes the B League column better than CA and YB’s will meet an unpleasant death, like terminal jock itch.

Mitchem Opticians
Fast & Accurate Service
Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician
Prescriptions Filled
206 N. Main
Glasses Repaired
Glasses Adjusted
Sunglasses
Ph. 663-3942
Mooresville

AT YOUR CAMPUS STORE WITH ERRORITE
