FLAT PICKIN’

Nick Hallman winds up Mountain Crafts Week with a country guitar set at 8 p.m. Friday in Chambers Banquet Hall.
Earlier tomorrow, Hallman will lead a guitar jam session in the Morrison Room of the Union at 4 p.m.

Unto These Hills (Continued from page 5)

The summit is a restaurant franchised by the state. The most expensive entree is about $3, and all of the
food is outstanding. Equally impressive, however, is the view from the dining room and the quietness of the place. Beginning
in Asheville, restaurants become more abundant and less provincial in atmosphere. To highlight the better places in Buncombe County would
be as futile as attempting to do the same for Charlotte. A springtime junket into the mountains is splendid assurance
that the world breathes anew, that the stock market will rise again, and that nature knows no bell curve.

Mary Hobbie

The Davidsonian April 5, 1974

Seven

Nixon Bleeds Presidency With Tenacious Leech Hold

It's April. For a year and more now, we have been hearing about Watergate in an ever-increasing amount. Discovery of
corruption is becoming old hat and infringement of civil rights bothers us little if at all. Through all the muck
and turmoil, Mr. Nixon has stuck onto the Presidency like a leech. Apparently, he is of the old school of
medicine which believes that the best way to cure a sickness is to bleed the patient. Unfortunately, Mr. Nixon has
continued to bleed the Presidency for quite some time. When he finally drops off in 1976, the office of the
Presidency may be only a shell. It is ironic, since Mr. Nixon's alleged intention is to save the Presidency, that
the emaciation of the office will be the result of his continued holding of the office of the Presidency.

The Presidency is even now becoming a joke, however. Few of us even try to conceal the skepticism with which
we listen to Mr. Nixon's speeches and press conferences. And while Mr. Nixon is not the office of the Presidency
incarnate, he is the President. (There is, unfortunately, no mistake about that). His avoidance of the truth of Watergate, his
refusal to cooperate with attempts to establish the true involvement of members of his staff and himself in the corruption
which has been unearthed, eats away at the fabric of the citizens’ belief in the Presidency.

Some people would say that today’s cynicism about the government is not totally a bad result. We no longer have
heroes. There are no heroes. The people we see taking part in political spying, pay-offs, and infringements of other citizens’
rights are “the way it is.” There is no honor among thieves or politicians. There is no Camelot. The Congress
has come to appear in the common imagination as an amorphous mass or a nebulous haze which makes threatening noises
like thunder from time to time, but drops marshmallows instead of hailstones. If the spirit of the Congress could be
made into one man and if that man played the part of Moses coming down from Mt. Sinai with the
10 commandments, the tablets would never have been broken. “Wait,” he would say, “those people dancing around the golden calf
have got great rhythm.”

So most of us laugh at Nixon jokes and laugh at our own lack of effectiveness or apathy or both.
Some of us already look toward ‘76, living in the weak hope that ‘something’ better will happen then. At least
there will be new jokes.or maybe just re-runs of the old jokes—REAGAN AND LASSIE IN '68 (make that '72). This
action of the weakening of the Presidency has already gone on for too long. We do not accept Mr. Nixon's
rationalizations, yet we accept Congress’ snail's pace at impeachment. We do not wish the bleeding to death of our dream
of Presidential honor—yet we allow Mr. Nixon to tarnish that honor by his refusal to let the truth be known.
We are now at the first of April, 1974. We have been learning more and more about Watergate for over
a year: If we and our Congress permit the present state of affairs in our national government to continue, who
will then be the April fools?

Babies are not born under cabbage leaves. I had suspected the falsity of Santa Claus and cabbage-births for many years
before I was certain, so the final discovery came as no great shock to me; but the truth about Oscar
came upon me all at once, and I'll tell you—I was shocked. I remember the year of my disillusionment, 1970.
“Airport” and “Love Story” were nominated for best picture, and I nearly fainted.

So I'll list the ones I was especially pleased with instead: George Delerue for his original dramatic score for “The
Day of the Dolphin” and Piero Tosi for his costume designs for “Ludwig.” Needless to say, both lost. But the
real reason I am writing this column is not to pick on the Oscars; they are too easy a target,
and besides, I try to ignore them as much as possible. What I am really interested in is an excuse
for listing the films which Oscar should have nominated.

Best Films:
1) Kei Kumai’s “The Long Darkness” (Japan) is the formal half of a minor masterpiece. It is beautiful and excellent
at establishing dark, foreboding moods. The screenplay is trivial nonsense.
2) Satyajit Ray’s “Days and Nights in the Forest” (India) is the content half of a great film.
3) I took a while to catch on to Francois Truffaut, but I appreciated his work more with later viewings.
4) Rainer Werner Fassbinder's “The Merchant of Four Seasons” (West Germany). I am very fond of this film although it
is more of an intellectual exercise.

Best Directors:
1) Federico Fellini for “8½” and “Wild Strawberries.”
2) Francois Truffaut for “Day for Night” and parts of “Such a Gorgeous Kid Like Me.”
3) Bernardo Bertolucci for “The Spider’s Stratagem” and parts of “Last Tango in Paris.” (He was Oscar-nominated!)

Best Actors:
1) Marlon Brando is very uneven in “Last Tango in Paris,” but at his best he is great, maybe. (Oscar
nominee!)
2) Chishu Ryu is a consummate actor in Ozu’s “An Autumn Afternoon.”
3) Jack Nicholson is somewhat gaudy in “The Last Detail.” (Oscar nominee!)

Best Actress:
Katherine Hepburn, from whom I never expected a great performance, gives one in “A Delicate Balance.”

Best Supporting Actor:
Harry Andrews (John Huston’s “The Mackintosh Man”).

Best Supporting Actress:
Delphine Seyrig (“The Day of the Jackal”).

Best Screenplay:
Satyajit Ray's screenplays for “Days and Nights in the Forest” and parts of “The Adversary.”

Best Cinematography:
1) Takashi Kawamata for “The Long Darkness.”
2) Jean-Pierre Almandros for “Such a Gorgeous Kid Like Me.”
3) David Watkin for “The Homecoming.”

The Oscars are a lot of fun. Also, they force critics to say what they mean.

By JOE MCMILLAN
