Eight March 29, 1974 The Davidsonian Balance Keynotes New ‘Live Rhymin’ By RUSSELL CARTER Staff Writer

Since his break-up with Art Garfunkel, Paul Simon has released two excellent solo studio albums, “Paul Simon” and “There Goes
Rhymin’ Simon.” Containing incisive material such as “Duncan,” “Kodachrome,” and “American Tune,” the recordings firmly established Simon as a master
of the contemporary narrative song. On his new release, a live concert album entitled “Live Rhymin’,” Simon proves himself to
be a consistently original and superbly talented solo vocalist and folk guitarist.

The true genius of the performance faithfully captured on this album lies in a multi-leveled balance of the various musical
elements which Simon achieves and maintains from the first song to the last. In general, he alternates performances of five
songs which were Simon and Garfunkel hits, with five tunes from his solo albums. In terms of style, Simon effectively
complements his simple solo folk tunes with his more complex songs based on black rhythm and blues and gospel motifs
and performed with back-up band accompaniment. Simon paces each song brilliantly by balancing restrained three-finger guitar picking against accentuated full
chord strumming. His vocal embellishments of ballad phrases blend beautifully with the three-part harmonies provided by the Jessy Dixon Singers,
one of his back-up groups.

“Live Rhymin’” opens with a confident rollicking version of “Me and Julio Down by the Schoolyard.” This is followed by
a moving rendition of the classic, “Homeward Bound.” Simon's voice rings clearly above a typically tactful guitar solo. The version
of “American Tune” reveals an intricate guitar chordal structure which was obscured on the studio version by a heavily mixed
string arrangement. This live cut is Paul Simon at his very best. After these songs, the artist introduces Urubamba, a
group which...

The Joy Of Eating FOOD By Woody Connette

It was a delight to learn that FOOD has reopened in Concord. The gigantic neon sign on the interstate spells
FOOD, and that’s where the name comes from. Who knows what the restaurant’s real name is—I’m no journalist. During the
day, FOOD is a nearly ordinary restaurant serving lunches that are cheaper than Slater's. Their pie is outstanding and should
not be passed up. FOOD is at its best late at night when nothing else is open. In those hours,
every sandwich on the menu is a four-star specialty.

Eating there the other night was no different from any other trip I have ever made to FOOD. Out 73
to Concord, not another car in sight. Then up I-85 a couple of miles to the first exit—how could anyone
miss it? Truckers sat in singles and pairs drinking coffee and talking trucks, I imagine. A paucitous Durer's mother, her
skull sparsely upholstered with affected hair, smoked alone. There is a jukebox spiced with country greats in every booth, but
no one seemed to mind. My egg, bacon, cheese, tomato, and onion sandwich came. Exquisite. What time was it? Trucks
droned outside; a spoon hit the floor. One man cursed while another man laughed. A waitress sitting at the counter
yawned, “open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year,” she had told me. Steam condensed on the windows. The
ageless truckstop treat of the nocturnal elite floated on, held aloft by bright lights and black coffee.

Studies have proved that people will forego shelter, warmth, sports, and even sex in order to eat, which accounts for
the shallow consciousness of people whose behavior is determined primarily by their stomachs. Eating is grand—I love a good gorgie—but
there is a point beyond which one’s senseless indulgence causes others to go hungry. You have probably heard about the
grape and lettuce boycott, and you may be thinking “Oh gosh, here goes my tossed salad.” But first, here is
a word about what it is all about.

Farmworkers are attempting to unionize—the only alternative available for a people who have no legal residence due to the nature
of their jobs. Through unionization, they hope to attain privileges that you and I see as basic rights—primarily, an end
to the necessity of child labor, and sanitary living accommodations. It is commonplace in migrant camps to see (as I
have) shallow wells for drinking water within spitting distance of open latrines. Farm owners and large grocers argue that provision
of these rights will raise the cost of produce. That may be so, but ethically we cannot deny other people
their human necessities in order to get a head of lettuce for 2¢ less. So, as far as lettuce goes,
try to avoid eating the usual head lettuce. The tastier varieties (leafy, bib, interharvest)...backs him on well-executed versions of “El
Condor Pasa,” “Duncan,” and “The Boxer.” The group adds tasteful vocal harmonies and unique instrumentations, using percussion, flutes, and the
charango. Simon surprises the crowd with a new verse to the old song, “The Boxer.” He updates the song, singing
“Now the years are rolling by, I am older than I once was and I'm younger than I'll be/that’s not
unusual./No it isn't strange/after changes upon changes we are more or less the same.” For the next four songs, the
Jessy Dixon Singers, a group Simon first came into contact with at the Newport Jazz Festival in 1972, join him
on stage. “Bridge over Troubled Water,” the masterpiece from Simon and Garfunkel's last album, is performed next. The rendition differs
radically from the studio recording.

Entertainment By FRAZIER MARSH

Simon originally composed the song for guitar, and he now sings and plays the song backed by strong background vocal
harmonies. The bass guitar work on this song is excellent. It is the best I have heard since Paul McCartney’s
on “Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band.” The album closes with a final Paul Simon classic composition. He performs “America,”
originally recorded on “Bookends,” as a vocal solo with his guitar. It comes across as a masterfully complete production.

During the week of March 27-31, the big top will once again be raised and Ringling Brothers Circus will present
its 1974 extravaganza. This year the circus will feature many more animal attractions, plus over fifty more clowns have been
added. The circus will be in Charlotte Coliseum, with the shows beginning at 4:15 and 8:15 p.m. For tickets call
the coliseum.

March 30th will be the opening night for the spring production at the Charlotte Little Theatre. The production will be
Neil Simon's smash hit, “The Last of the Red Hot Lovers.” This show was a successful long-running production on Broadway,
and Charlotte Little Theatre's production will be just as exciting. For tickets call the Little Theatre this week.

“Man On A Swing”

Frank Perry’s “Man on a Swing” is at least an improvement over his last two movies, “Doc” and “Play It
as It Lays.” These were so crudely directed as to leave me wondering how they could possibly be by the
same man who did “David and Lisa” and “Last Summer.” At his best, Perry is a fairly competent imitator of
other directors. “Man on a Swing” is not his best, but it is smoothly and serviceably directed. Occasionally, it even
seems inspired. The opening shot with the camera fixed on the upper half of a moving police car is admirably
framed, as are a few other shots, and there is one scene which is altogether good.

The critics who defend Perry praise him for the plastic quality that his films sometimes get from his slick personality,
his cardboard characterizations, and his tendency to show us people he does not like. Personally, I seldom find that the
characteristics of Perry's films come together for any distinguished results. There is, however, one scene in “Man on a Swing”
that impresses me. It is the one in which two psychologists, played by Elizabeth Wilson and Ron Weyand, interview a
clairvoyant, played by Joel Grey. Cliff Robertson sits in the background trying to keep a straight face while Wilson and
Weyand expertly indulge in heavily mannered, semi-comic performances which are virtual caricatures of the highly idiosyncratic performance that Grey has
been giving throughout. The director’s cynical exploitation of his actors makes fun of an excellent performance by Grey. The scene
works in part because it is beautifully photographed and also because it seems very much a part of Perry's personality.

I have trouble caring about any film that I don't think the director cares about, and this is one problem
with “Man on a Swing.” Why should Perry suddenly make a movie about cops investigating a case at this point
in his career? There is no reason except that perhaps he was attracted to David Zelag Goodman's screenplay by a
possibility he saw for an actor in the role of the neurotic clairvoyant. Perhaps he even had Joel Grey in
mind when he first decided to do the project, for Perry is often an inspired caster of actors. He is
also occasionally an excellent director of actors, and Grey's performance here is one of several outstanding ones in Perry’s films.
(Howard da Silva in “David and Lisa,” Cathy Burns in “Last Summer,” Carrie Snodgrass in “Diary of a Mad Housewife,”
and Tuesday Weld and Anthony Perkins in “Play It as It Lays” are especially memorable.)

Unfortunately, Grey's performance occupies only about half of the film’s running time. A lot of time is wasted as Cliff
Robertson, who is playing a police officer, questions various people about a murder. Robertson never finds a character to play
in this film, which is no wonder, considering the screenplay. At least the film is lively when Grey is on.

By JOE MCMILLAN
