Knowledge

"There is nothing inherently evil in certification, obviously it is necessary for students aiming at professional or graduate schools. But too often certification comes at the expense of learning...credit for courses has become the be-all and end-all of education." -- Theodore Newcomb excerpt from “What Does College Do for a Person?” Psychology Today.

Wayne Gulledge

It occurred to me. In a fit of academic iconoclasm, I had abandoned my note cards for one paragraph and inserted a paragraph of thought, when out of the Golden Knowledge carpet under my feet appeared a pleasant gentleman who chided me saying, "I wouldn't do that if I were you, child."

"Uh, do what?" I asked, trying to appear innocent of my horrible deed.

"Think, my dear. You know that's a scholastic no-no. Why else do we spend our time scheduling classes at 8 a.m. and creating so much reading for any student to assimilate with discrimination and pleasure?"

"Heavens to Betsy," I shrieked, grabbing "The Interpreter’s Guide to the Bible" that a dying Humanities student had flung at my feet, and waving it in the apparition’s face, "You’re the Devil of the Bell-Shaped Curve!"

"I have many names, child. Some call me the Bell-Shaped Curve, to others I am the Graduate Record Exam, and to many I am the Menace of the 4.0."

"What evil power called you up from Chambers, demon?"

"I felt a twinge, only a slight twinge of scholarship occurring on campus. While I realize you’re still new here, you really must try to get more into the spirit of things."

"No!" I screamed, brandishing "The Interpreter’s Guide to the Bible," "I refuse to succumb to intellectual prostitution!"

"Calm down and stop waving that book around, I’m not that kind of devil. Actually, I’m quite fond of all the useless minutia which reserve books create."

"But what about mind expansion?"

"Don’t tell me you actually believed that catalogue we sent out? Fortunately, most students aren’t so naive. They arrive in their shrine to the GOD OF THE GRADE and begin their burnt offerings."

"But that’s repulsive. Don’t teachers want students, not grade snatchers?"

"We want advocates of pure learning, but the Bell-Shaped Curve demands its due. Why do conscientious and/or intelligent students flunk?"

"Because education books specify that there must be a bell-shaped curve. So, we try to make sure one or two flunk, just to follow tradition."

I picked up "The Interpreter’s Guide to the Bible" and my note cards. I ripped each of the 508 cards singly into shreds and with each rip, the apparition winced in pain and diminished slightly in size.

Onychophagia Ravages Community

Like a thief in the night, one of the most insidious menaces to life and happiness existing in the world today has crept onto the...Davidson campus. The Nov. 1 issue of the "Journal for the Dissemination of the Findings of the Center for Phenomenological Research" indicated conclusively that an affliction which has simultaneously stymied and revolted modern medical science is not simply existent here, but is indeed epidemic. That to which I refer is, of course, onychophagia. Yes, this syndrome capable of undermining the stamina of the most virile specimens of American manhood has struck. So even Davidson is not immune to the ravages of nightmarish afflictions created by an overdeveloped society. 

We must confront a problem recognized by all sentient beings. While statistics show that two out of every three persons in society at large are knowingly or unknowingly victims of onychophagia, there is no cause for panic. Concerted effort may curtail the syndrome before it reaches cataclysmic dimensions at Davidson College. To prevent contagion, it is essential to avoid contact with those manifesting overt onychophagia tendencies. Symptoms are best described in the "Merck Manual." Sufferers may appear tense and repeatedly ingest keratinous materials. As to those in terminal onychophagia, palliative treatment is the only recourse. The need for understanding must be stressed, however. Onychophagists should be viewed with no more revulsion than victims of other illnesses contracted accidentally during normal human interaction. Though the manifestations of the condition may inspire disgust, kindness is the better part of virtue. Thus for the present, we must hope that medical innovation will provide onychophagists with a permanent cure. Today, intensive psychological counseling may result in temporary remissions, but a definitive cure must remain among the highest priorities of medical research. 

A strict system of quarantine in conjunction with triage for those affected seems to be the only viable course of action. Since the onslaught of the syndrome has not even spurred those in the higher administrative echelons, ours is a crisis too grievous to be swept under the rug. We must act and act now.

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS
The Reivers
Starring Steve McQueen
Friday, Nov. 8
8 & 10:30 P.M.

For if so heinous an affliction as onychophagism is allowed to flourish in such an intellectually rarefied atmosphere as exists here at Davidson, what hope can there be for the common man? Then as my final act of exorcism I sidled up to his quivering ear and yelled, "Knowledge for Knowledge’s Sake!" With a final anguished wail, the demon disappeared, leaving a foul-smelling ring around the carrel. I took my books and rubbed them over the circular remains and then I sauntered into Charlotte to apply for a job as a cocktail waitress.

IN CONCERT
Star Spangled Washboard Band
STARTS MONDAY, November 11
PLAYS ALL WEEK ON A REPEATING SCHEDULE
ONLY ON CAMPUS TV SETS