The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
— Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

SEPTEMBER 15, 1974

Making Waves With 50,000 Watts

The Board of Trustees of Davidson College and the station manager and staff of Davidson Radio Station WDAV appear to be on entirely different wavelengths regarding the purpose and function of Davidson broadcasting at present.

WDAV, owned by the Board of Trustees and operated by a student staff, has been an educational tool of the college, both for those who serve as its staff and those who listen for information and entertainment. Now the Board of Trustees appears to be entertaining thoughts of eliminating the student staff, feeling that the purposes of the college and community would be better met if the college went into the broadcasting business for itself with a staff of professionals rather than Davidson students.

For a college without a director of finance or development at present, the policy of hiring more administrative personnel to drain the college budget is highly questionable. If the college cannot afford to build Paul Rudolph dormitories or construct new buildings for the art department, from where would the finances come to support a station to compete with the likes of Jefferson Broadcasting Company, owner of WBT in Charlotte?

Yet the question which seems most pressing is why the Board of Trustees is desirous of replacing a channel for students’ points of view with another administrative function. If the administration intends to continue its position that study of journalism lies outside the basic liberal arts curriculum which should be offered by the college, a move to replace students with professionals simply serves to rob the tangible experience Davidson can offer students outside the classroom.

We cherish the ability of WDAV to use the broadcasting media to inform and entertain this college community as a student-run organization. The prerequisite for establishing a new professionally-operated station, besides incredible sums of money, is the assurance that the student-staffed WDAV FM station be allowed to continue its present services to the community as a separate entity.

Sticking To Their Guns or Making Things Uniform

Returning students greeted the cordial faces of Davidson policemen on the other side of the I.D. camera. Security precautions were immediately in evidence. Some think the evidence is a bit too graphic. It is good to see the security officers having a chance to see all the students entrusted to their care. We hope that memories will hold and that all can go their merry way without unfortunate incidents that have plagued us in the past.

However, the security arrangements now involve more than a safe community of saints. Simply, what is the rationale behind security officers equipped with an array of weapons? Isn’t it possible that the presence of authority in a uniform is enough to “protect and serve the student community?” The possibility of violence presented by weapons is startling. A curious and troubling mentality seems to have crested in security thinking. An example: the back of the brochure given all students by the police provides a space for listing the serial numbers of firearms. College regulations strictly prohibit students having such items in their possession. Someone forgot to tell the police, and they certainly didn’t assume it on their own.

Many of the security precautions deserve praise. The service of prodding students personally to register their property is laudable. Campus thefts have dropped dramatically in the past few years. Mr. Sherril in his amiable strolls is aconstant source of delight to garrulous souls. Still, questions remain and need to be raised. Is the presence of arms as severe a threat as it seems? Is more personal foot patrol needed in place of the car-and-buggy routine? The higher visibility of police strolling the campus seems to us a more effective deterrent of crime than all the police cars equipped with blaring radios, bubble-gum machines, and shotguns parked outside of Richards House Snack Bar. Perhaps the Precinct Two Patrol could both strengthen security and diminish the revolver, shotgun, and nightstick overkill image by returning to fundamental footwork rather than sticking to their guns.

Gus Succop

Honor Code Triumphs Over Nixon, Library

With the recent pardon of President, oh excuse me, former-President Nixon, I would like to add a few remarks to Uncle Jerry’s decision. What I am about to do is to make the honor code stick. Many freshmen at Davidson are unaware of the fact that Davidson possesses an honor code. The scene takes place in room 228 Chambers. The people present are members of the Honor Council. The discussion opens:

“Just because I broke into the Dean’s office, I really don’t think I should be punished.”

“However, don’t you understand that we operate on an honor system here at Davidson?”

“Oh yes, I understand that, but I was doing that for the good of the law school which I hope to attend next year.”

“Well, we must abide by the rules, and those rules are steadfast in the heritage of this college.”

“Oh, you mean that I can get off maybe in a few days, possibly a week, for good behavior, possibly a presidential pardon?”

“No, my friend, those days have long since passed us by. And remember, you will pay for your crimes in the most severe way possible. You will not be able to date a coed for the rest of the year.”

Obviously, I have just presented a satirical presentation of the Ford Administration. Hopefully, the Class of 1978 will adhere to rules and regulations pertaining to the welfare of Davidson College. In particular, I would like to make mention of the new E.H. Little Library which has been recently constructed for our continued study in “Do it because it’s right.” “Sorry, Dick, go back to Go, you do not collect $2 million dollars for your memoirs.” I abundantly applaud the new library and what it stands for. May the future classes of Davidson College appreciate what it has to offer in the way of free reading. And may those who abuse the privileges that we have to use that library, go directly to San Clemente. Good night, Dick. Good night, Mr. Little. And may all you freshmen rest assured that this month’s Playboy is on microfilm. There’s no librarian’s pardon for overdue or stolen books.

The Mint Museum of Art in cooperation with Queens College presents 12 outstanding films for the 1974-75 Kino Film Series. This year’s series focuses on three early films by Italian director, Federico Fellini. Now considered by many critics to be among Fellini’s most important achievements, these films introduce themes which later formed the poetic center of the director’s work. Two of the films are American classics, seven films are in the same mode as the presentations—foreign films of artistic and literary acclaim by critics over the world. Films will be shown at Dana Auditorium and the remaining earlier Kino series (on the campus of Queens College) on Sunday evenings at 8 p.m. A $12 subscription series ticket will be allowed to buy individual admission for their accompanying guests.