“Andy Warhol’s ‘Frankenstein’” Paul Morrissey has always done his best work when photographing the people he knows about—the “eccentrics” of the New York d—and his worst work when fantasizing about the worlds these “eccentrics” would like to enter—Hollywood and the Italian film colony. In other words, “Trash,” “Women in Revolt,” and “L’Amour” are more interesting than “Heat” and “Andy Warhol’s ‘Frankenstein’.” (I have not seen “Flesh.”) In the first three films, the “eccentrics” often act out their fantasies for the cameras; in the last two, the films themselves have become the fantasies. “Heat,” a ‘remake’ of “Sunset Boulevard,” takes place in Hollywood and stars Sylvia Miles in the Gloria Swanson role. The film is only interesting around the edges, where we can see Eric Emerson, Andrea Feldman, and Pat Ast.

Morrissey’s latest and worst film, “Andy Warhol’s ‘Frankenstein’,” was filmed in Italy and stars Monique Van Vooren, Udo Kier, and the ever-uninteresting Joe Dallesandro. Like Sylvia Miles, Van Vooren and Kier lack talent for the type of improvisation Morrissey’s movies thrive on, and Dallesandro has never had any talent whatsoever. The best scene in the movie—practically the only one that is any good at all—involves neither Van Vooren nor Kier and does not require any ‘acting’ from Dallesandro.

In this scene, the field hand (Dallesandro) takes his friend, the farmer (Srdjan Zelenovic), to a brothel in order to introduce him to a more interesting lifestyle than the one he has chosen for himself—monasticism. The farmer ignores the advances of the whores and watches blankly as his friend demonstrates what one does with such women. Zelenovic gives a sleazy non-performance, and the scene has a bit of the energy that Morrissey’s campy brand of humor has so much of when it comes fully to life, as in parts of “Trash.”

In its content, “Andy Warhol’s ‘Frankenstein’” is not an attempt by Morrissey to do something different; it is simply a very weak and very poor example of what he has been making all along. In its form, however, “Andy Warhol’s ‘Frankenstein’” reflects an unfortunate progression. “Trash” is distinguished by wildly inept photography and direction—the perfect form for its content. One would think that Morrissey had purposely done everything wrong while making “Trash,” but he has protested in an interview that he was simply doing the best he could to make a competent film. Since “Trash,” Morrissey has progressed towards competency to the extent one can tell he is trying. “Andy Warhol’s ‘Frankenstein’,” though really quite crude, is meant to be elegant, and the results are embarrassing.

By JOE MCMILLAN

(Staff photo by Venable)

“Vertical Pendulum”

Consumer Advocate Ralph Nader arouses students from lethargy.

Eric Walker Memories Bridge Temporal Reality

A tradition has been shattered. A tradition stretching back into dusty dime store aisles piled high with new notebooks and school lunch boxes and pens and bundles of paper good for five or so novels. I have no new shoes this fall. Summer miles can’t be filed away in the closet this time. A pair of scuffed and friendly shoes is enough to bring back memories.

Barbour Attacks Doares’ Criticism of Gaige

To the Editor:

It was with great amazement and disbelief that I read the comments and charges of Bob Doares on the Office of International Education and Dr. Frederick Gaige in the last issue of the ’73-’74 DAVIDSONIAN. The large majority of these comments were not based on the facts, and as a result, they were untrue. In addition, his letter was written at a time when Dr. Gaige, to quote Doares, “is moving on to greater things,” and could not possibly reply as this was the last issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN while he was at Davidson. Doares charges that the applications of the Marburg JYA students were not mailed until late in the year, even though they had been given to the OIE. He says that no publicity was sent out to students on the JYA programs. This is entirely false. Two personal letters were sent out to every Davidson student advertising the programs. Most of these,I noted, ended up on the floor of the P.O. What more do you want than two personal letters? He charges that travel arrangements "were weeks late of the promised date of availability merely because the OIE failed to type them up." Again, this is totally erroneous. The airlines themselves did not know about schedules and prices for the summer until late in the school year. As soon as they were available, they were given to the JYA students. Doares complains of lack of information on Eurail: of thing this department would handle. Ms. Snouse really said that the OIE had no information available, but would get it as soon as possible, but in any case was not responsible for student vacation travel, which is what a Eurail pass would be used for. Although there were delays in some of the functions of the OIE, it was not the bunch of babbling idiots Doares portrayed it to be. To the contrary, it was a very dedicated and hard-working professor and staff trying to organize one of the biggest messes in the school. It was Dr. Gaige’s first year at a job in which he had little experience and in which there was no transition period from the previous director. He took it, though, because of his strong beliefs in the value of foreign studies.

Doares accused the OIE of a "lackadaisicalness." This charge is so poor it’s funny. Not only was Dr. Gaige Director of the OIE, but he taught half-time and was chairman of the South Asia department. He was director of the Southern Atlantic States Association for South Asian Studies and served on a national task force on international education. He sponsored several summer institutes in South Asia and African-related studies. I don’t wonder why the OIE may not have been the most efficient department in the school. I wonder how it got anything done at all. Dr. Gaige was constantly in his office until 9 or 10 at night and on Saturdays and Sundays. Constantly. Show me one other professor who works those hours. Doares names who he thinks would make a good director for the OIE, but says this is impossible as this professor is teaching a full load. Why is this impossible? Dr. Gaige was doing twice the normal amount of work. As a work-study student under him for two years, I found Fred Gaige to be one of the most dedicated people at Davidson. He was interested personally in the students more than any other professor I have known. Davidson really lost something when he went on to greater things. Doares’ comments about him are both professionally and personally unwarranted and scurrilous.

John A. Barbour ’76
Davidson College

The memories of summer excursions they so faithfully conducted. My summer weighs heavy on me this time around. This was a summer of travel. I broke an amazingly provincial record and ventured across the Great Water to England. And now that body and shoes are back, I am spending some time trying to reel in a mind still swimming out there somewhere. I might as well unload the struggle all right now, or it will seep out for months to come. Fellow house dwellers have already taken to muttering things like I’ll have to pay more attention to denture adhesive ads if I say "In England..." one more time. Murray and Mary even kindly declined my surviving pound note.

England is now lost in a glorious haze. People and places loved too briefly have been wrenched away. What can one say to anyone who wasn’t there? Secret memories remain secret. Perhaps a humorous commentary. Let me tell you about a bottle of wine and Edinburgh Castle, or a park bench in Stratford. No. You undoubtedly know all you care to know about what Stonehenge looks like. (Did you know that triple coils of barbed wire give it the air of a concentration camp?) How to capture the powerless relief when a President resigns at two in the morning thousands of miles away? Thrown together in Davidson, we must wrestle with summer memories alone, or find a friendly ear that knows. Then the body traveled; now the mind has a chance to hitch a ride onward. Would anyone care to see a picture or two, or a pair of old shoes?

My summer lies lost and shining, somewhere over the rainbow.