Fourteen April 12, 1974

Shr Bavidsonian

In his attempt to catch Hank Aaron's new record, Wildcat first baseman George Weicker crosses home with a round tripper.
Davidson lost to the defending champs of the Southern Conference, Appalachian State, 10-2 on Wednesday.

TIME OUT

with
MARK WILENSKY

No sooner do I sound off, than Jeff Frank signs the top high school tennis player in Florida.

Nonetheless, the fact remains that shooting for a top player without a scholarship to offer is like climbing up a
down escalator. You might eventually reach the top, but think how many people glide easily by you as you struggle.

As Frank said to a DAVIDSONIAN staffer, “I don't know why he came here. Bondurant could have gotten money most
anyplace else.”

Bondurant is a tremendous personal coup for Frank and a great boost to his program. Unfortunately, his signing could do
as much harm as good. College officials are liable to point to Bondurant and claim a revival of the old
Davidson mystique.

* * *

As long as I’m lobbying for a revamping of attitudes within the athletic department and on the Davidson sports scene,
let me take a swipe at the Sports Information Office. It’s the middle of spring and still the only press
releases sent out concern the signing of football and basketball prospects.

Wildcat teams are now competing in track, tennis, baseball, sailing, rugby, and golf. Let’s give the people playing these sports
some attention too.

Spring football practice is underway and the players seem to be working at least as hard and enjoying it more.
Having a realistic chance to win will do wonders for a team’s morale.

Speaking of football, the talk continues of Charlotte landing a World Football League franchise. Can anyone remember the last time
there was a new sports league and Charlotte wasn’t considered for a franchise?

If rumors were fact, Charlotte would be a

(See CHARLOTTE, page 15)

Consecutive Net Victories Scored By Women Wildcats

By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

Davidson’s women’s tennis team evened their record at 4-4 with consecutive victories over Queens and Randolph Macon.

Davidson, which won the Queens match 7-2, was led by Mary Miller's 6-0, 6-0 victory at number 1 singles. Other
winners were Becca Stimson at number 2 in a marathon three-setter. Sue McAvoy and Dea Booth had straight-set victories at
numbers 3 and 4 respectively. Ruth Murphy won in 3 sets playing number 6.

The number 1 & 2 doubles teams both won against Queens. The number one team is composed of Miller and
Stimson. McAvoy and Booth play second doubles.

Against Randolph Macon, Davidson also won 7-2. The winners were Miller, McAvoy, Booth, Murphy, and Carol Goldsborough who won in
three sets.

The three matches prior to these were tough ones for the female netters. Duke and Virginia crushed the Cats 9-0.
Duke's number 1 player just won the North Carolina collegiate tournament.

The other match was a 7-2 loss at the hands of the girls at Mary Baldwin. Davidson’s two victories came
from Miller and McAvoy.

In Davidson's previous matches, they beat the Charlotte Latin School 8-1. That school’s only victory was by their coach who
is the top player in North Carolina.

Against Furman, Davidson lost 7-2. Davidson also defeated Hollins 5-4. This match was decided by the best two doubles matches.

Sue has been Davidson's most impressive netter boasting a 6-2 record. Miller and Booth both have 4-4 records. The first
doubles team of Miller and Stimson is 4-4, while McAvoy and Booth are 5-3 at second doubles.

The next matches are next Wednesday and Thursday. Wednesday’s match is at Pfeiffer and Thursday’s is home against UNC-Chapel Hill.

... Tennis Team Wins

(Continued from page 13)

optimistic about the coming years for the tennis program here.

“Brian has excellent tennis credentials,” Frank praised, “and he is really going to help our program in the next few
years.”

In conference competition, the Cats have three singles players who are thus far undefeated. Quinby leads the trio, followed by
Steve Holman at the fifth singles and John Mitchell at number six. Allen and Quinby are also unbeaten at the
top doubles slot.

Getting back to the Pfeiffer match, there was really very little competition for the Cats, as they won all the
matches in straight sets. Allen had some problems at the top singles spot, but came through with a 6-3, 7-6
victory.

Quinby totally annihilated his opponent with a handy 6-0, 6-0 win, while Bressler took the third slot, 6-1, 6-1.

Scoot Dimon won at four, 6-2, 6-3, along with Holman and Mitchell capturing the lower two singles spots by identical
6-0, 6-0 romps.

Bressler and Dorsett won a good match at the top doubles position, when Frank pulled Allen and Quinby out of
the match. Holman teamed with Bill DuPont to capture the second doubles, as Mitchell and Dimon won at the final
doubles post.

The Cats will travel to Virginia Tech on Friday and move on to VMI Saturday for their fourth conference encounter.

The two matches should serve mainly as warm-ups for the big battles with Furman and Appalachian.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7 — Wed. 9-12 — Sun. 9:30-10:30
Phone 892-0208 Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main St

Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

“BEST PICTURE” - “BEST SCREENPLAY” - “BEST DIRECTOR” - “BEST ACTRESS”

INGMAR BERGMAN'S

CRIES AND WHISPERS

Friday, April 12

8 & 10 P.M.
Love Auditorium
Admission $1.00

Where the good things are!

Cornelius, N. C. 892-8468

tastee-freez
