i od

- Bill Allen serves as his doubles partner Rick Quinby prepares to take his net position in a recent match for Davidson. These two players are the number one twosome for the Cats.

Sports

Experiences

Temporary Lethargy

By PETE CELENTANO
Staff Writer

This is that time of the year when the sports fan seems to be in limbo. The NCAA basketball championships are over (is NC State really the best?) and the pro playoffs will not begin for two weeks.

Trivia games can be played only so much. There is little excitement in watching exhibition baseball or pre-playoff pro basketball or hockey.

What can a sports fan do? He can sit down and write a sports column, take up knitting, find a willing female, etc. but this does not seem to fill the vacuum left by the end of winter, sports' most active time.

Why do you think "Sports Illustrated" runs its "swimsuit" issue around this time of year? Do you believe it is because sun-bathing is an active sport (a great spectator sport, though)? No, there is just nothing else, and it’s a great way to fill up pages.

Why am I writing this, you may ask? Well, I couldn't think of anything else, and it is a great way to fill up space.

KA

A much-neglected sport at Davidson, and one that deserves more widespread participation, is APBA (known as "apba") baseball.

Nobody knows what APBA stands for. Like God and taxes, it is taken on faith.

Sports fans have their baseball board games, a true devotee recognizes that APBA is king.

The game is played by two (or more) persons. Each takes a packet with 20 numbered cards, each packet marked with a team name, each card marked with the name of a member of the team.

There are "situation boards", numbered and printed with information on a specific play. There is also a board with a replica of a baseball diamond.

The game is played by rolling dice and looking up the number on a player’s card which yields another number. This final number is found on the situation boards and the result of the roll is known.

The game is better played than explained. All the great teams can be obtained (1927 Yankees, 1955 Dodgers, etc.) as well as all-star Hall of Fame teams. Each year a new series of the previous season’s teams is issued.

The game is played on campus, but its players have hidden themselves. Arise ye APBA stalwarts. Yours is a hell of a game.

AK

On a more serious note, there is a rumor about that a P.E. course in "The Philosophy of Sport" will be presented in the near future, for those who have no desire to complete their physical education requirements.

This is not only hypocritical, it is a cruel joke played on Davidson students.

Theoretically, the course offers a classroom alternative to physical education requirements of a more strenuous nature. However, its purpose is self-defeating. The philosophy of physical education is to build a student with an acquaintance with physical exercise. How does this jive with classroom study?

It is adding to the burden of an already overburdened student.

The solution might be to forget the whole idea of such a class and keep old P.E. requirements to participating in intramurals.

Netters Outwit MIT, Amherst

With ‘Grooved’ Performance

March 29, 1974. Thirteen

was playing

DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036
PHONE: 892-8054

"super

to tennis, and really consistently good."

Scoot Dimon went to three

Fy leo mont /nsurance

137 NORTH MAIN STREET + P.O. BOX 2348

Finally, an affordable Electronic Pocket Calculator for every college student.

Only $39.95

At last, an electronic calculator affordable to every college student. A product of space age technology. Four functions — add, subtract, multiply and divide in seconds. Nine digit display. Automatic addition and subtraction. Enter a number once and simply depress the plus or minus key for each addition or subtraction. Light weight — less than 5 ounces. Easily fits into pocket, brief case or notebook. Compact — approximately 5” x 2” and less than 1” thick. Two-place decimal setting for addition and subtraction. Long continuous operation with easy-to-buy, easy-to-replace 9 volt batteries. Automatic turnoff feature to conserve battery life. Automatic squaring — press the "x" key to square displayed numbers. All this and more for only $39.95. Optional AC adaptor for longer battery life, UL approved, only $4.95.

CD I like it. Enclosed is my check for $39.95 plus 60¢ for postage. (N.C. deliveries add sales tax). Immediate delivery upon receipt of order.

Address

City, State, Zip

p.o. box bb, dilworth station, charlotte, n.c. 28203