WETPAINT
John Stockdale's collection of paintings is now on exhibit in Cunningham Fine Arts Center.

Roger Manley

Curled Canvases Accentuate Horizontal, Vertical Clefts

A Review

Currently being exhibited in the burlap hallways of the Cunningham Building are a series of large unstretched canvases by John Stockdale, formerly of Australia and now a nuclear physicist.

Stockdale’s paintings are limited to two themes, one exclusively vertical and the other horizontal.

The vertical ones, which he refers to as “personal shapes,” are experiments with the positive-negative aspects of dark or black colors against raw unprimed canvas. These can be described as clefts, or again, if the dark seems to the viewer as positive, as underwater cutaways of sailboats at anchor. He prefers to think of them as clefts.

The horizontal paintings occur chiefly as two horizontal bars, generally a shorter bar with one or more ends of either bar drooling down and flowing into the other bar or down toward the bottom of the canvas—certainly not terrifically pleasant nor particularly exciting images. Both kinds of paintings are handled in much the same manner: the paint is applied while the canvas is unrolled on a floor, is allowed to flow around and soak into the canvas in a predetermined area but in no particular pattern. Once dry, they are rolled up for easy storage and transportation or tacked onto a frame.

(See CANVASES, page 12)

Reel to Reel Reviews
‘The Paper Chase’

You are a senior at Davidson College thinking about a possible career in law. A necessary prerequisite for this is, of course, law school. Once you get there, it seems that all your problems will be solved and you will be a lawyer simply by remaining alive for three years.

Timothy Bottoms and Lindsay Wagner (that name should be a winner in New York) disprove this naïveté in the new release now at the Park Terrace Theater, the “Paper Chase.”

Directed brilliantly by James Bridges (who also adapted John Jay Osborne’s novel for the screen), the “Paper Chase” is a film to see, and see again. It is without a doubt one of the best films in circulation at present.

The cast, save for the cold Miss Wagner, is uniformly excellent, with Bottoms, Naughton, and John Houseman (as the unfortunate ex-Professor Kingsfield). I suspect that the director had a sentimental romance in mind.

By PETER CELENTANO

The Joy of Eating

The Great Steak Fake

STEAK! Ahhh, the fantasy of lean, thick, brazen beef with all the trappings is enough to force even the most stoic among us into a feeding frenzy! Steak! That one word has diverted fortunes into the hands of the entrepreneurs behind the neon menagerie. Since it is generally wise to understand that which controls us, a little discourse on the charm of beef is the order of the day.

The two primary factors contributing to a good steak are whether the cow walked to Chicago or rode the train, and how it was treated (i.e., butchered) once it got there. Even Benjamin Franklin once remarked that little can be done to a piece of meat to improve upon what the cow did itself.

A good cook, therefore, knows that in preparing a steak, as in boiling water, any superfluous activity beyond heating it to the proper temperature is potentially damaging. Despite the simplicity of its preparation, steaks have been smothered in a mystique.

The red hot grill has consequently come to have an erotic appeal to some people who in turn have ushered The Steak House into a front row position in the American Dream.

Due largely to its high cost and the associated fact that people will continue to crave beef regardless of its price, three distinct types of steak houses have evolved.

First among these is the stand-in-line steak joint that thrives on its economic appeal, despite the fact that the customer must often pay extra for such accessories as butter and silverware.

Second is the type of restaurant designed for those who think nothing of paying extravagantly for excellent food and atmosphere. Such a restaurant, though specializing in steak, will more often than not offer additional non-beef entrees.

Finally, there is the unadulterated Steak House, which carries ignited fries and enough glitter to attract those who feel comfort in the very name of such a place.

From this third mold is cast the Hereford Barn, located on I-85 at the Derita Road exit. Outside are parked big cars driven by smokers of big cigars. Inside, one is struck by the way these big men treat their wives, who in turn flit furtive glances about the barn to assure themselves that everyone else is properly acting.

The salad bowls are advertised to be the biggest in town, and like their customers, are among the shallowest. Admittedly, the food is excellent, thus catapulting the barn into a position as one of the best restaurants in Charlotte. On the other hand, I have only rarely had a bad commercially cut steak, so it may just be that the Barn owners realize their limitations and don’t try to prepare anything more difficult, such as tuna fish casserole.

Filler: The way the economy is going lately, there seem to be a lot of urban legends about them N.C. State. The only...