April 19, 1974 - Workshop Learners Innovate
By MATTHEW COVINGTON

The Davidson College Drama Workshop, a producing group for the College’s Springtime play series, is currently in the midst of
its second season of producing five plays under the tutelage of Professor of Drama Rupert T. Barber. The purpose of
the Drama Workshop program is to give students experience in all the phases of dramatic production, sometimes leading to unexpected
excitements. “People do things in workshop that they never thought they could do because of the pressures involved in getting
all the odd jobs done.”

The Drama Workshop is open to all interested students and indeed, it is the students that make the productions go.
A drama workshop class is also offered in the spring and the nomenclature is a source of confusion. The workshop
program is a producing group open to interested students as an extracurricular. It is from this program that the greater
mass of people involved in the Springtime productions come. The workshop class is a theatre studio class and many of
its students are, because of their interest, involved with the workshop program. The two are not the same. The Drama
Workshop program is the actual production of the plays (the “putting them on”), while the class is where the production
is accomplished. Barber assures that the names will be changed next year.

The Drama Workshop occurs in the spring because, according to Barber: “Spring seems to be more conducive to experimentation. After
winter term people seem more ready to try something different. Generally, I think spring is looked at as a time
to experiment. The program was started last spring when drama interest became so great that we couldn't handle all the
people who wanted the experience,” he said. “I think in a liberal arts college the drama experience should be made
available to as many people as want it because of its broadening nature through the study of character.

“By the end of this week there will have been seven student-directed plays using at least 45 different people on
stage. There are probably that many more people involved in the work off-stage. Since the very purpose of having the
series in the spring is to encourage the experimentation which is basic to the program, this year has already been
and continues to be highly successful. Outstanding among the innovations and experimentations is a call for audience participation, a theme
that has been carried in the staging of plays in the round, some on a thrust stage, and some on
a said Barber. “This year we are continuing that kind of thing with ‘Dracula’ where we hope to work out
an environmental theatre where the actor-audience relationship is all the same.”

Another innovation for this year is the kind and scope of the plays being produced. Last spring saw only contemporary
American productions, with an accent on what was successful on Broadway.Broadway. This year has already seen Wilmer Welsh's medieval passion
play as well as the institution of environmental theatre with "Dracula." The experience of the performers as well as the
audience is expanded by this kind of innovation, according to Barber. Starting on Monday, there were tryouts for parts in
original plays written by the directing class this year, who are generally inexperienced. This isn't to say that they are
not benefiting from the class. It does point up, however, the importance of the Drama Workshop, for it is here
that the student directors receive their most beneficial direction. They learn by doing.

TONGUE IN CHEER
Drama personnel learn the importance of facial expression. Davidson students. These plays come to Barber during the year, and he
passes them on to student directors so that they can decide which ones they want to produce. The opportunity for
an all-Davidson play is exciting, and Barber believes that as the program catches on, there may have to be a
play contest to decide what plays will be considered. Student directors, all but one of whom are involved in a

The Red Bandanas Graduation Sale
The "Red Bandanas" is a small landscaping company operating in the Davidson area. I started this company during the winter
of my sophomore year, and during the spring we worked entirely on yard maintenance. That summer, I decided to work
for a local nurseryman, which landscaping requires more skill and produces higher profits (from retailing plants). The next winter, I
streamlined my organization, bought more equipment, and worked all spring with two employees. During the summer, I located enough jobs
to keep three employees and myself working hard all fall. I was successful, and this year my volume and earnings
were up five times over last year. Currently, my business picture looks great; my income to date is two and
a half times greater than last year's at the same time, and the reputation of the "Red Bandanas" as a
friendly, fast-moving, thoroughly competitive, and competent landscaping service is growing. I am graduating this spring, and I am interested in
selling the business to someone who wants to learn some of the practical aspects of running a business. When I
began, I had no idea of the challenges or rewards that business could offer. I am asking a very reasonable
price for this business since I would like to see it continue to be run by a Davidson student. If
you're interested, please contact me evenings at 892-0617 or drop a card to Box 1325. Thank you very much.

Sincerely,
Mark C. Leonard

I try to attend four or five of their rehearsals to see how things are going, commented Barber. No "D.C.
original" has, as yet, ever been produced in any form outside of the invidious Davidson community, and according to Barber,
the plays as written are generally indicative of "first plays." He suggested that the author probably learns a lot by
seeing his work produced. "The workshop program couldn't work without students putting in hours of work. The scale is small.
Our costumes come from wardrobe. Our philosophy is to make do artistically with what we have. This stretches the imagination
of the student," said Barber. Barber adds, "Producing is harder than directing, and I really have to run around. It's
great though, and the students really seem to be excited about it. I know I am." In general, whether the
play is student-written or selected from successful plays outside the school, after the student-director decides on the play and how
he wants to play it, rehearsals begin. These are, because of the short allotment of time, intense rehearsals.
