Fire Chief Describes Flaming Career

The Davidson Fire Department sits respectably and almost lazily on Main Street, confident in both its competence to put out
fires and the extremely remote possibility that it might have to.

Should the need arise, Fire Chief George S. Hampton assures that a siren would go off to alert the volunteers,
which can be heard seven miles away.

“We would be on our way in about two minutes,” claims Hampton.

As far as finding one’s calling, Hampton certainly seems to have.

“I’ve only held one nine-to-five job in my whole life and that for only six weeks, long enough to buy
me a pick-up truck,” says Hampton. The job of Fire Chief leaves the majority of most days free to go
fishing.

Even with what seems to be a terrific job, Fire Chief Hampton says that he has been trying to retire
for three years.

It seems ludicrous to leave except when one actually looks at the responsibilities that go with the title of Fire
Chief.

Hampton illustrates these various tribulations by “talking out of school” or, saying what he thinks without regard for the consequences.

“To begin with, it’s pretty expensive. We have probably got $120,000 worth of equipment. It adds up. A fire coat
costs $42.95 but I tell you, if you put one of these things on, you can be naked and you
won’t want anything else.

“We've got every piece of equipment we need except rescue equipment and they have that at the North Mecklenburg station
so that we may use it under the mutual aid program that we have.

“Last year, we helped out Cornelius 13 times and they helped us out eight.

“Besides, I don't want rescue equipment. My brother-in-law’s station has it and he’s always getting calls for ambulances - he
never gets to do his work,” said Hampton.

The burden of high prices does not stop with fire coats.

Even the special license plate that says ‘Fire Dept. Captain, Davidson, N.C.’ costs $1.50.

“I can’t figure out why mine is the only one that gets all beat up,” says Hampton as he holds
up a scuffed plate, veteran of a year of fighting fires and going fishing.

Hampton takes as much punishment as his license plates.

He recalls the last fire at the station.

“It was three years ago. Some guy in Belk’s reading lamp turned over and short-circuited. The sparks caught his mattress
on fire. I heard the siren first, (My wife says I sleep with one eye and one ear open) and
got down to the station.

“Some young boys heard the siren too and went over to see the fire like they always do. They can
get there on foot before we do. I guess they come to see if any girls in night shirts will
come out.

“Anyway, when I got to the fire, these boys were already there and they started throwing rocks. If I hadn’t
had on my fire coat those boys would have broken my watch.”

One of the very exciting things about fire stations are the fire engines. Davidson has three.

Hampton points with pride to the new (’71) Mack which will go 60 miles an hour. “It gets four miles
to the gallon on the open road, but only two in town.”

Hampton added that because of insurance restrictions he cannot take it out of town which could hurt gas mileage.

The other fire engines are rather old. One, a 1951 Mack, has only 8000 miles on it. Hampton explained, “The
speedometer doesn’t register when the equipment to pressurize the water is on.

“That truck will go about 35 downhill,” he added.

A 1960 Rio tanker and pumper weighs about six tons dry, says Hampton, and “When she’s full, it takes half
a block to stop her.”

Hampton has been the fire chief for 15 years. During that time, he has improved the fire department from “2
pairs of boots, 6 fire coats, and 6 helmets” to its present state of readiness.

The only gripe that Hampton has is that the present doors on the garage are too low to accommodate a
rotating turret water hose on the top of the fire engines.

He says with a note of concern, “We haven't needed one yet, but it might come in handy.”

The Davidson Fire Department does not have a Dalmatian. “No one wants to keep him,” said Hampton. “I would but
I’m allergic to dogs... Why, I go over to my sister’s house and...”
