Ten October 11, 1974

The Davidsonian

Paul Mitchell

Cat Runners Race To Three Meet Wins After Slow Start

The Davidson cross-country team, currently getting into the thick of its fall dual-meet schedule, is riding the crest of a
three-meet win streak. The last two races, in the past week, have produced surprising victories by comfortable margins that argue
well for the upcoming competition. Sporting an overall record of 3-2, Martin’s Marauders are looking to improve on last year’s
7-5 total. Experience, depth, and a surprising freshman class have combined to give the team a look which contrasts with
the 1-14 and 2-12 records of 1970 and 1971.

Basketball

The 1974-75 J.V. basketball season will begin its preliminaries Monday with an organizational meeting. Head coach Bo Brickles is hoping
for an excellent team and another winning season this year. He is urging all interested students to attend the meeting
at 5 p.m. in the balcony of the gym. Practice will begin Tuesday.

The first dual meet of the season, on Sept. 24, found the Cats traveling to Boone to attempt to avenge
the football team’s thrashing at the hands of the Apps. The team was unfamiliar with the course, the temperature was
an unholy 40 degrees, and the altitude factor didn’t help. Also, Appalachian has a very good team. The Wildcats were
blown off the map, 17-45. However, Martin was optimistic: “Overall I was not disappointed with the team’s performance. Appalachian is
one of the toughest teams we'll face this season, and that course was a real mind-boggler. I was very pleasantly
surprised with the race run by freshman Bill McClement, who placed second for us.”

According to the team, running Appalachian at Boone is not the worst thing in the world. The worst thing in
the world is running Furman at Greenville. That Friday the Cats were burned again, 15-50. At this point, Martin’s strategy
of alternating resting runners...

Sidelines

This Saturday the Wildcats will attempt to return from Wofford with a victory. Whether they are successful or not is
of little importance in the great scheme of things. The government will continue to rape us, and the Suez Canal
will remain closed regardless of tomorrow’s outcome. The logical conclusion is that the Wildcats don’t count for penguin do-do.

Many students will support this view. They will rightly claim that there are more important issues to worry about on
Saturday afternoon. So why care about the Wildcats? I’m not going to argue from the school spirit angle, because I
am not a hypocrite. Instead, I want to make a case for the team based on my belief that we
can do more for world peace and Spencer’s poor people cheering for the glory of the black and red than
we can brooding in the library or passing the pipe around.

When we engage in an activity such as rooting for a football team, we are saying that we care about
something besides the crap that this world continually feeds us. In a time of war, inflation, and another Nixon, we
are saying that we aren’t down, that the little things still matter to us. If men lose the capacity to
care about the little things then there is no hope for this world. I am not equating the Wildcats with
universal salvation. But to care about the Wildcats or the Dodgers or Stinky is to show that you want to
do something that has meaning to you, and to hell with them and their wars. Maybe we can’t stop the
evils of this world. But we can affect the little things, and that’s what a...— proved eminently successful. He had
written off the first two contests of the year anyway, and pointed towards the next three dual meets. The Cats
succeeded remarkably. On the second, they traveled to High Point to challenge HPC over their new course. The old course
there has won an impregnable position in cross-country folklore. It looped over, around, and through the campus, and some runners
have actually disappeared between the coed dorms and never emerged again. But I digress. The Cats negotiated the new course
to a score of 23-37, picking up their first win. Captain Rick Bell found his old place as number one
man for the team again, finishing second overall, and Jesse “Space King” Smith beamed in right behind Bell.

There follow two victories which are truly amazing and gauge the power that Martin’s Marauders are showing these days. On
Saturday, Oct. 5, the Wildcats ended years of frustration against The Citadel with a 22-35 whipping. The last time Davidson
had an edge like that was back in '63 when most of the Cadets were thin, at Gettysburg. On Monday
last, the surprising harriers rained on Wake Forest’s parade, 23-36. Again, a long losing streak was snapped and laid to
rest. Pinckney ran his usual brilliant race, first. Two Deacons wandered in next, but were overwhelmed by a phalanx of
Davidson’s old men as seniors Bob Lautensack, Bell, and “Lube” Deal claimed fourth, fifth, and sixth. Smith beamed in next.

Clint Eastwood
Telly Savalas
Don Rickles
Donald Sutherland
10:00 & 12:30 Friday, Oct. 11

LAPPING UP THE MILES
Moving serenely through the cross-country wilderness trail, two joggers soak up a few rays. (Photo by Goodman)

Davidson Boats Place Fourth In Sail Meet
By WILLIAM A. BEASLEY
Staff Writer

This past Saturday, Oct. 5, the Davidson sailing team held its Fall 1974 home regatta in fine fettle. In the
five A division races, the Davidson entry Jet skippered by Dave Francis and crewed by Chuck Berrino placed variously from
last to a glorious first, finally taking cumulative third place. In the four races of B division, the boat skippered
by Tommy Lee and crewed by Sarah Willcox placed fifth cumulatively for Davidson.

The teams invited were N.C. State (a team possessing neither home waters nor home boats), Clemson, College of Charleston, Duke,
and The Citadel (whose team members demonstrated their traditionally phenomenal capacity for beer). By 10 a.m. Saturday all teams were
present and six boats rigged; however, no wind. The teams agreed unanimously to wait for wind to begin, and it
was proposed that a one-hour time limit be set on each race. As twelve races (6A, 6B) had been planned,
and a minimum of seven was required, this was generally deemed a prudent move. By 11 a.m. a breeze of
sorts had appeared, which gradually ripened, and the regatta was on.

Final results in overall scoring were as follows: 6th - N.C. State, 5th - Clemson, 4th - Davidson, 3rd -
College of Charleston, 2nd - The Citadel, 1st - Duke (who also took 1st in both divisions).

Next weekend the Davidson team is on the road to the College of Charleston in Charleston, S.C., to listen once
more to the dulcet tones of George Scarborough. Soon, the team will host the annual fall regatta for the general
student body (no skipper’s card necessary), at which the coveted Buns Lundy trophy will be once more up for grabs.

KELLY’S HEROES
Starring
Clint Eastwood
Telly Savalas
Don Rickles
Donald Sutherland
10:00 & 12:30 Friday, Oct. 11

PIEDMONT BANK
The FIRST and ONLY Bank To Offer Students MASTERCHARGE
