| September 15

TUCK IT AWAY
Paul Mitchell

Farrell Teaches Technique In Pre-Season Gridiron Drill

By CARLYLE SHERRILL
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcat football team is in the midst of pre-season practice. The coaches and players are building the foundation
for the team as it enters the 1974 season.

Since Sept. 1, the players have been hard at work on fundamentals and techniques, while the coaching staff has been
trying to put together winning offensive and defensive combinations.

New Head Coach Ed Farrell is pleased with the progress of the Wildcats thus far in pre-season. “We just have
to keep working hard in preparation for the season,” Farrell said.

The Wildcats have six offensive starters returning and five defensive starters. In addition, Jim DeVille and Eddie Womack, who had
to sit out last season with injuries, will start this year. Most starting positions will be manned by veteran players,
while much of the bench support will have to come from untested freshmen.

The team has lost the services of Roger Whitley indefinitely, due to a knee injury. Whitley was to be heavily
counted on as the middle defensive linebacker. Also injured at present is Jerry Taylor, a freshman.

Farrell has brought with him to Davidson a new football...

Martin Establishes Track Record

First things first, as I always say, and as soon as I got to Davidson, I dropped in at the
M & M to check out the egg salad again. Mark Deaton was there, looking worried and a bit crazed—more
so than he usually does when he’s fretting about the next issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN.

“What’s up, Deaton?” I said, egg salad sandwich well in hand.

“Ah, it’s the paper again,” he moaned. “We’re desperate for columnists this year. I’m ready to try anything, even knaves
and fools. Say, would you be interested in writing a column for us, Mitchell?”

Well, I was speechless. Flattered to be approached (nevertheless), I recalled something in my letter to the editor last spring,
a criticism of THE DAVIDSONIAN “condescending to instruct” their fellow students about the whys and wherefores of national politics.

On what subject was I well-versed enough to “condescend to instruct” my pals about?

“Say, Mark,” I offered, “how does a column about Confederate military history sound?”

I was truly anguished to see the cloud of despair that crossed his face. No go.

“Sorry I blew up,” I explained, “but what with ol’ Lester Maddox getting whipped by the good people of Georgia
last night, my Southern pride is in euphoria this morning.”

Well into egg salad number two, I finally hit on it—Davidson tradition. I’m a senior, aren’t I? All you have
to do to become a senior is to knock around at this place for three years, and I’ve knocked around
as much as any senior. And in knocking around, we pick up the odds and ends of stories, the interesting
little tales about the characters that are the true heart of Davidson.

This grab-bag of anecdotes—“oral tradition,” John Munce likes to call it—is pre-eminently the province of us grizzled veterans. We have
a duty to pass it on—a calling. It won’t change the world, but it’s a real rush to listen to.
I told Mark. He looked half leery, half interested, but never mind, he’s desperate.

Now, one of my favorite Davidson people to tell on is Sterling Martin, our cross-country and track coach. There are
stories aplenty about Sterling, or Coach, as we call him, and whenever the cross-country jocks (“harriers” is the term, I
believe) spin their yarns in admiration of him, credulity is strained. He’s amazing.

I’ll never forget how I first encountered Coach. It tells a lot about the way he works. About the second
week of freshman year, I strolled on...

The man with the clipboard was short and spare, but the knotty calf muscles, the air of command, and that
psyching grin left no doubt that he was in complete control. Sterling.

“Mitchell, Paul...hmm...say, didn’t you run the half in high school?” he grinned.

I didn’t know what to think. “Well yes, I guess.”

I wish this was a movie, because if it were, the scene would cut here, and a lead-in...Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

would explain “One hour later.” Then it would reveal one Paul Mitchell, former half-miler, in the middle of an eight-mile
“tour” of the cross-country course. Good grief! I didn’t even know people ran eight miles. That’s the way he works—
“We're gonna ‘getcha!” as the cigar commercial says. Heath Whittle used to “getcha” for the cross-country team with the freshmen
cake race. Yep, that’s how that strange tradition was born, over 30 years ago—to uncover hidden runner talent. And about
15 years ago, a skinny kid dashed from back in the pack and ran away with it, shocking especially himself.
He had never run step one in high school track, because they didn’t have it at his school back in
the West Virginia mountains. Sterling. He ran away from a lot of packs before he graduated, but the real story
was his incredible style. There was always a blade of stray straw drooping from his mouth, and the story goes
that beanies from yesterday, complete with cardboard wings attached. Can you beat that? Captain Howard Boyd, ’72, told me that
one, so if you don’t believe it, see him. Captain Rick Bell, ’75, told about the time that Sterling was
step-to-step in a race with a rival and started talking to the boy about how his stomach ached. “Aw, it
feels so bad,” Sterling moaned. Directly, the other fellow simply said, “Ugh” and dropped off. Coach beat him by about
200 yards. Martin was All Southern Conference in cross-country in ’62, ’63, and ’64—quite a feat, since that means he
was among the top five runners for the conference all that time. But that’s only his athletic story. Off the
field, he was a bit more human and suffered the trials of all Davidsonians. He likes to reflect about how
he was often “one step ahead” of the registrar, you might say—almost flunking out. He was giving too much attention
to running and to a distant girlfriend. “Lots of times I’d go running down the hall in Chambers with a
paper, rushing to meet the deadline, and I’d see the professor running from the other end, trying to beat me
to the door of the office.” Sterling must’ve won most of those foot-races because he made it through.

Then there’s the time he had two dates for a big weekend. He had sent a letter to one girl,
and receiving no response, asked Mary Hopkins. Then, two days before the weekend, C. Shaw Smith reached in his pocket
and withdrew a letter explaining that he’d been forgetting to give it to Sterling for about a week. Coach survived
that too, and didn’t alienate Mary too awfully bad, because they were later married. Sterling’s got it made today, by
comparison to those hectic (See MARTIN, page 7) ball philosophy that may be compared to that of Don Shula at
Miami or the late Vince Lombardi at Green Bay. “I believe in a basic concept on offense and defense based
on technique,” Farrell said. “We need good players willing to work hard, and I think we have that here,” he
added. “We're more player-oriented than coach-oriented,” Farrell indicated. Instead of trying to defeat opponents by razzle-dazzle play, the Wildcats will
come out playing sound basic football with well-prepared players, a more balanced offense, and more aggressiveness. Another thing that Farrell
brought with him is a winning attitude. In talking with both players and coaches, there is an unmistakable optimism toward
the upcoming season, and the practices have shown the players’ aggressiveness. The early part of the schedule may well present
the greatest challenges to the Wildcats, with tough opponents in the first four games. According to Farrell, in the first
couple of games we may not be particularly artistic, because this takes time, but I can promise we'll be extremely
emotional.”

Pando Company in association with Raybert Productions presents EASY RIDER An American Odyssey PETER FONDA - DENNIS HOPPER JACK NICHOLSON
directed by Dennis Hopper, written by Peter Fonda, Dennis Hopper, and Terry Southern, Producer Bert Schneider CANNES FILM FESTIVAL WINNER
“BEST FILM by a NEW DIRECTOR” Love Auditorium Friday, September 13 8 & 10:30 P.M. Admission $1.00 Tickets available in
Chambers Lobby ONLY.

Piedmont Insurance Agency, Inc. MAIN ST. @ DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036
