Sailors or Master Gusts To Enter Elimination
By TRACY CHARLES
Staff Writer

Davidson qualified for the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association (SAISA) Spring Championships this year by placing second overall in a close match for the top three places at Old Dominion University last weekend. While the first division was sailing their eliminations at Old Dominion, College of Charleston and The Citadel were hosting a joint eliminations regatta for SAISA's other division. Due to increased membership in the past few years, SAISA has found it expedient to divide the conference along geographical lines into two sections. Each section will send their top three schools to the championships, being held at Duke on April 23. Duke, Davidson, and University of Virginia will attend from one division, and, although the results of the College of Charleston/Citadel regatta have not yet been confirmed, it is likely that College of Charleston, The Citadel, and Clemson will represent the other division.

The regatta last weekend was what could only be described as typically Old Dominion. Cloudy and cold with periodical rain and ominous rumblings from the north, the races were run from 10 to 5 Saturday afternoon in the Elizabeth River. Daryl Douglas and crew Tracy Charles sailed in the A Division, but the gusty winds and choppy seas threatened to overpower the 12-foot dinghies. The A Division was called in after their fourth race. While the Race Committee waited for the front to pass through, one broken centerboard and two split masts were repaired. A two-hour wait brought more stable conditions and the B Division began their four-race series. Dave Francis and crew Tommy Lee sailed for Davidson's B Division. Francis pulled in two seconds, one third, and one fourth, duplicating Douglas’ earlier performance. Frequent equipment malfunctions related to the heavy abuse the boats had weathered earlier in the squalls made efficient sailing difficult for the “B” skippers. Douglas and Francis were not enthusiastic about their individual performances, but Davidson's invitation to the Championships, the primary concern of the day, made sailing all day in the cold rain worthwhile.

The sailing team will travel to Duke this weekend for their Annual Spring Regatta. This will provide a good opportunity for Davidson to practice in and become accustomed to Windmills, the boats that will be used in the Championships.

(Staff photo by Goodman)
BLOWIN IN THE WIND
Despite the two-foot seas, clouds, and heavy rain, the Wildcat sailing team managed to place second in the SAISA competition this weekend.

Spring Fever Hits JV Tennis Team
By DONNA NEUDORFER
Staff Writer

The annual spring rite of feverish interest in tennis has been heightened even further due to the organization of a junior varsity tennis team. The addition of the JV’s to the women’s and men’s varsity teams makes finding a place to play even harder for

Trackmen Outdistance Catawba, Bulldogs In Triangular Meet
By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

Last week, Davidson's track team gave coach Sterling Martin his first track victory since taking over as head coach. The victory came at last at a triangular meet with Catawba and Gardner Webb at Gardner Webb on March 26. Davidson won easily, scoring 85 points to Catawba's 55 and GW’s 41. Davidson had lost an earlier meet to Appalachian 125-38. The team’s leading scorer at this point of the season is Mark Connors, who won the 100 and the 220 in the triangular meet and the 440 against the Apps. Bob Lautensack also was a double winner at GW, winning both the 880 and the mile.Against Appalachian he placed second in the steeplechase. Woody Van Meter has only taken five jumps in the pole vault but has won twice. Greg Love won the high hurdles in both meets. Steve Shankweiler had a double against the tough Apps in the shot and the discus. Other winners for the Cat harriers in the triangular meet were Rick Mullin (440), Paul (long jump), Tom Case (triple jump), and the mile relay team. Case and Paul both got seconds in their events at Appalachian.

The Cats’ next meet is at Catawba today. Next week will take them to VMI and then they will host the Davidson Relays next Saturday. The Relays will be held at Myers Park this year because of the construction of the new Davidson track. Martin hopes that it will be ready for at least one home meet this year, but April 20 is the last, and the recent rains have slowed work considerably.

Martin is looking for a good season. Ricky Bell, last year’s Most Valuable Player, and freshman Walter Crouch should be returning from injuries soon. There are a few school records that are in jeopardy this year. Freshman Coty Pinckney came within 13 seconds of seizing Martin's record for the three mile in the triangular meet. Other possibilities include Lautensack in the steeplechase, Bell in the mile, and Van Meter to break his record in the pole vault.

“I’m really in favor of the idea, and it’s working out really well this year,” varsity tennis coach Jeff Frank said. “It gives more kids a chance to play every day and to work on their games. This way I get at the guys that can help at junior varsity teams right now, and they don’t seem to want their varsities losing to our JV’s. In addition to allowing more students to participate in competitive tennis, the JV program is being designed to help in recruiting good high school players. We’d like to build up a schedule with lots of real good high school teams,” Earp said. “This year we have Landon and Charlotte Latin School, but I think next year we'll probably add East Mecklenburg and Myers Park to our schedule. By inviting high school teams to our campus, we hope to cultivate some interest in Davidson. Our facilities are one of the great assets of the tennis program here.”

The initial match at Lenoir Rhyne featured a 2-6, 6-4, 6-1 marathon victory by Charlie Slagle at the number one court. Other singles wins and doubles matches gave Davidson a 6-3 win. Richard Martorell and Doug Berry paced the doubles with a 6-0, 6-1 win at the third court. Nicky Guy and Bill Vaughn highlighted the 7-2 win over Charlotte Latin. They swept number three singles 6-0, 6-1, while number one doubles could salvage a win in a rain-shortened 8-1 loss to powerful Landon. The match was not quite one-sided, however. Palmer, Vaughn, and Forrest Flaniken all lost their singles matches in three sets.

---

RADIO SHACK
A DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION
Authorized Dealer
THE SHOP
Electronics Unlimited
173 N. Main St.
663-4513
Mooresville, N.C.

Counseling opportunities for women who are interested in working with boys and girls, ages 6-16, in Charlotte, N.C. An A.C.A. accredited member, Thunderbird offers excellent programs in water sports, riflery, riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping. For further information write G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C. 29710.

FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK & TRUST COMPANY
112 South Main Street
MEMBER FDIC