Off The Record

The Waterboy November 1973

The Eagles Soar Into Tequila Sunrise

By LEE HUDSPETH (Wire Staff Writer)

The Eagles—composed of Don Henley, Glenn Frey, Randy Meisner, and Bernie Leadon—produced their second of three albums in 1973. The
theme of the album is well expressed by its title. Songs like “Doolin-Dalton,” “Tequila Sunrise,” “Desperado,” “Saturday Night,” and “Bitter
Creek” show us the sad and wistful life of desperados in the old West. However, this record is more than
just a nostalgic look at our heritage; the tales told are all applicable today.

For example, “Doolin-Dalton,” the first song on Side One, tells of the lives of two outlaws Bill Doolin and Bill
Dalton. The language describes a dry and hopeless land where “towns lay out across the dusty plains, like graveyards filled
with tombstones waiting for the names.”

The Joy Of Rating Hook, Line, and Sinker

By BOB ENRIGHT and MARK YOWORS

Their lifestyles were “easy money and faithless women, red whiskey for the pain” until they killed two brothers and had
to run, and the purpose they sought was sacrificed when they “left that peaceful life behind.” Only three ride back.

“Bitter Creek” is a song much like “Doolin-Dalton” in that it uses slow, quiet background music behind the lyrics which
are the heart of the recording. Voice, emotion, and tone are very important in this song. From this song can
be taken the point that life is not always more worthwhile or meaningful on the other side of the fence;
often one ends up running from his very self. The first sound one hears in this song is that of
a lonesome harmonica and a slow guitar; when the lyrics enter, each statement is sung in a manner such that
the whole impresses the listener as being a musical testimonial of two wasted lives. Drums, bass, and electric guitar are
very subdued in the background, setting the appropriate rhythm. This is a very moving cut, and on Side Two is
a reprise telling of the inevitable fate of such as that of Doolin and Dalton. “Four men ride out, only
three ride back.”

The ease with which this group ties lyrics and sound together is one of its features, resulting in a very
outstanding story in the song. Bitterness in general. An old man warns the singer “don’t wade too deep in bitter
creek.” A paradox springs up here, for are we in too deep if we live the peaceful life of the
farming husband, or are we fools for living like desperados? This question is never answered in the song; fortunately, it
is left up to the listener to introspect upon such matters, the individual interpretations being guideposts along the way.

This recording is of the slow listening category with valuable statements to make about the world we act in. It
is only when the Eagles attempt to deviate too much from this style that something seems awry. Nevertheless, as a
whole, “Desperado” is an intensely truthful account of the encounters faced by us all.

Local color is a fact seldom acknowledged by native residents. (If anyone is familiar with such outside the Southeast, tight
yet flexible structure.)

Ken Russell has made eight feature films, of which I have seen five—“Women in Love” (1970), “The Music Lovers” (1971),
“The Devils” (1971), “The Boyfriend” (1971), and “Savage Messiah” (1972). I have not seen the two early features, “French Dressing”
(1963) and “Billion Dollar Brain” (1967), nor have I seen the most recent, “Mahler” (1974), which has not yet been
released in this country. I am head over heels in love with all the films I have seen.

“The Devils,” paradoxically, condemns the very excesses it portrays. This film brings into prominence an aspect of Russell’s works that
usually can be ignored: at some level, he considers himself a serious dealer in ideas. The grandiose clichés his films
wallow in are intended as earnest meditations upon life. He burns and muddles, but in his way, he is attempting
to present—among other things—a critique of the human condition.

Grandier is a Catholic priest tormented by self-doubts but resolved to live the life of a “man”—i.e., to enjoy a
profligate sex life and to have the right to settle down when the time comes, with the firm hope that
God will somehow absolve him of his guilt when the time of judgment comes. A typical Gothic-romantic hero, he suffers
and passes his life as best he can until the arrival of a longed-for death. The right woman turns to
Grandier for guidance after an abortive attempt to join the local nunnery, which she finds filled with sexual hysterics, headed
by Sister Jeanne (Vanessa Redgrave, cast beyond her means). The nuns, alas, have confused...The worship of Christ with the worship
of sex and with please let us know). Skeptical visitors have to be repeatedly assured that a fish camp is
really a place to eat, and not a public fishing dock or boat ramp (though some apparently serve as both).
The location of these seats of Southern haute cuisine is invariably in an "off-the-beaten-track" spot, on a body of murky
water that makes one think twice before ordering "fresh-water" fish. The disparaging comments sometimes bestowed on them by Davidson students
give one the impression that the latter resort there for Saturday night dinner for reasons owing only to a lack
of sufficient money, or in lieu of a better alternative. After all, you can’t eat at the cafe Eugene every
week. But lest these comments lead you to unwarranted conclusions on an unconscious level, I must have a great love
for cliches. Otherwise, I cannot imagine how I respond to their rebirth so strongly as I do.

Richelieu gains control of France. Loudon stands in his way. His art is largely an art based on art and
hardly ever an art based on life. He loves the old conventions and has enough talent and imagination to pour
vitality back into the forms that plodding filmmakers have beaten down throughout the years. There were reasons for the old
forms once, and Russell rediscovers the reasons. His films vibrate with the strength of memories of shared movie experiences. But
something goes wrong in "The Devils;" I am abruptly reminded that one of the things Russell is trying to do
is to give concrete expression to a set of rather dubious philosophical ideas. "Women in Love" and "The Boy Friend"
express Russell’s personality more than his philosophy, and, though he speaks of them with some deprecation, calling one an assignment
and the other a commercial work (though not a compromise), I consider them among his most valuable films. "Savage Messiah,"
made two years later, is the most serious, most restrained of his films. Because of its content (in the narrow
sense of the word), which is more personal than that of his other films, Russell had a large audience.

Ordinarily, I would not discuss the "content" of a film, preferring instead to focus on the dazzling rebirth of technique.
"The Devils," however, has too much of the former content and not enough of the latter. Oliver Reed is such
an actor. The "Birth of Venus Ballet" is one of the best dance sequences to be found in Russell’s films—or
in anyone else’s, for that matter.

About dining at one of the places in question, let us quickly add that we have never been to one
that wasn’t crowded, and usually with good reason. For the availability of good seafood at reasonable prices, the fish camps
compare favorably with anything in their class. Though lacking the quality and atmosphere of Floridian oyster or New England clam
bars, both of these are suffering from the rising prices (and in some cases scarcity) of shellfish. Owing to this,
the fish camps comprise a luxury which people can hardly afford to miss. Without further ado, we recently ate at
Laney’s Fish Camp in Mooresville not just one Saturday but actually two in a row. One comment in particular stands
out: the quantity of onion rings that exceeds anything we’ve ever seen. In addition to the food, both the service
and the atmosphere rate satisfactory in our book. The lure of the fish camp will always weigh heavy with us,
as seafood is, and probably will remain, the ultimate among culinary delights for a great number of people. Its healthful
qualities are often cited (and health considerations aside, seafood of any kind except penfish is infinitely better than fried), in
particular clams, some of which rival honey in their sweetness. If that last statement fails to produce a mass run
from Davidson to Mooresville next Saturday night, nothing will.

By JOE MCMILLAN
