ee ‘The Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” 
-Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

No News Is Good News

Every once in a while, we recognize just how exciting a place Davidson College really is. This is one of those times. The expression “No news is good news” comes readily to mind, and do we have some good news for Davidson this week!

The lack of news this week is not unique to Davidson. The NBC Evening News resorted to running a feature about people riding a bus between New York and Boston. This mobilized man-on-the-street interview may have been the dullest story of the year. The transit riders had few opinions, little interest in news, little faith in the political news.

With coverage of the Watergate scandals declining, there seems to be a lack of people making news. Newspaper Executive Randolph Hearst’s daughter was kidnapped earlier this year, followed by the kidnapping of Atlanta Constitution Editor Reg Murphy. Not content with kidnapping only newswriters, editors, and their families, it seems that now, some sinister force has kidnapped the news.

Perhaps this is just as well. As issues go, Davidson has proven itself fruitful this term. Certainly the laundry, substandard housing, and the yearbook controversy have tried the patience of many, but was all of the rigorous siding necessary? Regarding the yearbook, the student editors lacked tact, but the president’s office lacked tact. There was no need for the bitterness incurred. Our point is the same with the laundry. Davidson is a small college that often seems to handle its troubles like a large university—the tempers flare unnecessarily. One asks, has some sinister force kidnapped Davidson’s gentility?

Steps have been taken to establish a new student publications advisory board, and word has it that it will be given teeth. How does the student approach this? The best answer is in good faith. Students are capable of deciding for themselves what should properly be included in student publications, and the new board will hopefully provide a forum for student discussion of policy without the threat of heavy-handed administrative censorship.

It follows that faulty communication created too many headline issues this fall. In such cases, no news would certainly have been good news.

Letter To The Editor

Iron-Fisted Thugs Refuse To Print Anonymous Nude.

To the Editor:

Our duty, it seems, was to hasten to the support of our brothers who crusaded in defense of certain of our inalienable rights. If words so fundamental to our discourses are staunched, the crippling of our powers of communication is imminent. Indeed, the Constitution is generous. After all, for what purpose is that first great right secured? It follows from examination that our duty was to acclaim the efforts of those heroic libertarians. Do not submit to this oppression, PRINT THE ANONYMOUS NUDE! Without this, beware the entering wedge.

Dickson Phillips ’75
Davidson College
NOVEMBER 8, 1974

Letters To The Editor

Locked Doors Slur Feminine Virtues

To the Editor:

With all of the otherWomen who live in Watts dorm, I have watched the building of our spectacular new bulletproof, bombproof, rapist-proof card-lock door. I feel that these doors are a waste of the school’s money and a slur on the responsibility of the freshman women. To keep unwanted individuals out of my room, I need only to lock my door. I doubt that many muggers and rapists will search out the house manager and ask her for the pass key. It seems that the administration does not credit us with the responsibility to lock our doors.

My home is near Randolph-Macon College where a girl was brutally murdered last year. She was being chased across the campus, but since the nearest building was locked, she was at the mercy of the murderer. No one has, to my knowledge, been molested inside of the Randolph-Macon dorms. If being pursued, am I to ask the rapist to wait while I fumble through my pockets to find my card or, even worse, to wait thirty minutes until the guard arrives?

I have been told that the card-lock system will not give us a curfew, but I am suspicious of this because, after all, the curfew rules are on the books and I have seen too many cases of equal rules for the sexes with unequal enforcement. I am sure that there will be a push from some of the alumni to give us a real curfew, and the card-lock system would make enforcement very easy.

At this late date, it would take drastic action on the part of the students to get rid of the card-lock door. The administration has already spent our money on it and would not want to let all of this fine new equipment go to waste, but they have not put the new screens up yet. I live on the first floor and I do not want to have to look out through prison bar windows. Let’s let the administration know our feelings about this fortification of Watts. I believe that it is an affront to the freshman women.

Carol L. Watkins ’78
Davidson College

---

To the Editor:

Let me take this opportunity to heartily congratulate those thoughtful souls who so delightfully decorated some of Davidson’s trees this Halloween. Tumbling out of bed and peering out my window in the morning, my ocular sense is enraptured by the flowing white ribbons of translucent tissue streaming from the boughs of our venerable vegetation. And such scintillating beauty is to be had at such a paltry price. Certainly, all of us can tolerate an untidy posterior for a time.

Therefore, may I suggest that the adornment of our heretofore unornamented foliage commence immediately. I hereby issue a call to all student activists to demand a more adequate supply of “bum-wad” to ensure proper trimming of all our trees. Certainly, this measure would add distinction and luster to an otherwise nondescript campus.

Bruce C. Corser ’76

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters on any subject from our readers. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length and to make corrections in spelling and grammar. All letters