Two November 1, 1974. The Davidsonian

Mary, Murray Celebrate 23 Years At M&M Soda Shop
By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

Twenty-three years ago last Monday, Mary Potts and Murray Fleming opened the M&M Soda Shop. They still run it today and look as if they will be forever. They’ve enjoyed themselves immensely all along, so much so that though twenty-three years sounds like forever, Murray will tell you that “it hasn’t seemed like any time at all.”

Murray and Mary worked together in what is now the Hub before they bought the M&M, where they set up shop as a standard Davidson pit stop. There they’ve remained and though the old fraternity plaques which used to hang over the booths are gone, Davidson College posters clutter the walls. Students will still stop in for a break at the M&M, but not as often as they used to and very rarely just to sit and talk. “Students aren’t as friendly as they used to be,” Murray will tell you. But he and Mary agree that people do seem more open this fall, more willing to talk, not just buy, unlike years ago when anyone and everyone dropped in to chat and it was common to ring up your own change on the register.

“This last Saturday,” Mary told us, “we had a great time; all sorts of people came back.” They have stories about past years at the college that’ll make you laugh. The M&M has served as a Saturday night dinner spot, off-campus fraternity house, and alcohol deposit when students left unfinished bottles with Murray for safekeeping back when no booze was allowed on campus.

Mary and Murray have some excellent memories of the old days. There’s nothing they like better than seeing old students back for a visit. All this has left them many memories. They’ve been able to watch the town and college for more than two decades and can tell you that if nothing else, Davidson College is quite changed these last years. With relaxation of regulations, the students haven’t been as much a part of the town, Mary and Murray say: “It was different when they had to be here almost all the time.”

“But anyone who leaves home at college age is going to do what he damned well pleases,” says Murray. There were ways of getting around rules. Murray doesn’t miss the years behind him too much, though, with Mary, he’d like it a little more, you get the impression, if the college took a little responsibility for student actions. Those days seem to have gone, though, along with the fraternity plaques on the wall, freshman beanies, and compulsory chapel. It’s not often anymore that you meet people over an egg salad and large orange at the M&M. Murray and Mary are still there, though, ready and willing to speak to anyone. It’s been twenty-three years now and it looks as if they’ll make it fifty.

Debaters Anticipate Strong Finish
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Asst. Managing Editor

The Davidson College Debate Team, now in the midst of their ’74 season, looks back on the first half of the year with satisfaction and anticipates the second half with hopes of significantly improving on the fine record earned in '73. The goal for the year was to improve on the number 14 ranking that the school received last year. In ’73, professor Jack H. Howe of California State University co-ranked Davidson 14th along with Colorado College and Albion College on the basis of outstanding performances given in extemporaneous speaking.

Bill O
By VAN WILLIAMSON
Staff Writer

Pending ratification scheduled for November, President Ford’s Omnibus Education Bill will enable students to examine their own confidential cumulative records. The section of this bill dealing with student records is intended to make this information available to students, while also limiting to whom this material may be shown, and under what circumstances.circumstances. The law also provides students a chance to challenge and appeal any content they consider “inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the privacy or other rights of students.” Impromptu speaking, television commentary, oral interpretation, after-dinner speaking, and original oratory. Howe’s rankings are official and are published annually. After four debates, the team is preparing for its biggest meet of the year. The host team will be Emory, and the occasion will attract over 100 schools. The Peachtree Debates are the biggest in the Southeast. Many of the same teams that Davidson has faced in the first portion of this season will be at Emory.

Davidsonian Executive Editor: MARK DEATON
Managing Editors: LARRY MIMMS, MARK WILENSKY
Sports Editor: CHUCK KENNON
Editorial Consultants: DON BENSON, ERIC WALKER
Associate Editors: CHUCK HARMON, JOE MCMILLAN, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP
Contributors this week: Bill Barnes, Russell Carter, Bob Enright, Mark Gergen, Pete Goodman, Roger Grange, Bill Kennon, Bill Lloyd, Bob Milks, Charlie Slagle, Fred Smith, Mike Snead, Frank Stiefel, Francis Townsend, Bob Wetzel, Van Williamson, and Mark Yow.
Operations Manager: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Managing Editors: MATTHEW COVINGTON, STEVE JOHNSON
Assistant Sports Editor: GLENN BALLARD
Senior News Editors: BRUCE CORSER, ANDY LAMAS, RICHARD ROMEYN, CHARLIE SHEPHERD, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Cartoonists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Assistant Business Manager: DAVID TRADER
Contributing Editors: JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, VINCE RABIL
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Photography Editor: LEON VENABLE
Typist: CAMILLE CATHEY

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00. (Photo by Venable)

AND A LARGE ORANGE, PLEASE
Mary Potts and Murray Fleming celebrated Monday the 23rd anniversary of the opening of the M&M Soda Shop.

Student files generally will include scholastic records, scores of IQ, aptitude, and psychological tests, and also admissions material and recommendations. The bill has been described by many people as too vague and undefined. Certain words and terms are unclear, such as “official records.” Does this refer only to academic records, or does it include more private material, such as psychological records, professors’ records, and recommendations? These recommendations and related matters are the main concern of many administrative officials at many colleges, including Davidson. Dean of Students Will H. Terry considers this bill “a sound proposal, but agrees that it may be a little ill-conceived” in its present state, needing some revision before ratification.

Davidson has faced and beaten such teams as Duke, Emory, Richmond, VMI, and Georgia, all of whom will be at Emory Nov. 8. Captain Paul Mitchell is enthusiastic: “We’ve got a lot to prove in Atlanta. Some of our losses in state competition thus far have been ridiculously unfair, and we hope to atone for them in national competition.” In the first five meets of the year, some members of the team have distinguished themselves by winning awards and speaker points which will be used to determine the team’s rank at the end of the year. The first meet of the year was at Washington and Lee. Here two freshmen began to distinguish themselves. Steve Smith won the 1st speaker award while Randy Sherrill won the 4th novice award. Both of these debaters have continued their winning ways. Sherrill’s overall won-lost record is 17-5. Jean Cornell, coach of the debate team, described this record as “phenomenal, really.” The next week found the (See DEBATERS, Page 3).

TERRY
The law “should benefit the students, but, as it stands, some problems could be counter-productive for students, more harmful than helpful.” Terry explained, “The problem is not with the records, but with recommendations, both to and from us.” “Will people still feel free to write good recommendations under these circumstances?” “This could create serious problems for students,” Terry advised. Although the college does not yet have a definite policy on opening student records, (See RECORDS, page 12).