Homecoming: October 25

All day
2:30 p.m. - Greased Pig Chase
4 p.m. - Hayride & Picnic at Lake Campus
8 p.m. - Concert: Kansas - Johnston Gym
10:30 p.m. - Concert: Cripple Creek Boys - Rathskeller

Saturday
10 a.m. - Davidson College Country Fair
Post-game - Reception and Square Dance at Richardson Plaza
8 p.m. - Concert: Larry Coryell and the Eleventh House - Johnston Gym
Midnight - Clogging Exhibition in Chambers Banquet Hall
Midnight to 3 a.m. - Dance: Sassafras
3:30 to 5 a.m. - Breakfast in Richards House

Weekend To Offer Variety Of Events
By LAURA RANKIN

Activities for the 1974-75 Homecoming have been planned for every student, according to College Union Board President Frazier W. Marsh. Homecoming is starting off with a thanks to Ron Scott and his fellows. Scott is planning an Oktoberfest in Chambers Hall. Music will be supplied by “Spin” and food will be supplied by Scott. “It will be a definite highlight of the Homecoming weekend,” said Marsh.

Friday afternoon plans include a greased pig chase beginning at 2:30 p.m. at the baseball field. Prizes will be awarded for the catcher of the pig. At 4 p.m. there will be a hayride and picnic at the Lake Campus for 300 people. Marsh indicated that each student interested in attending needs to purchase tickets available at the Union desk for 25¢ each. The hayride will leave from the Union parking lot and will return at approximately 7 p.m.

The Friday night concert will begin at 8 p.m. in the gym featuring “Kansas.” According to Cashbox, “Kansas deserves the billing of the most exciting new band in rock today.” Cashbox is looking for Kansas to become one of the biggest names in rock in 1974. “They are an organization that truly deserves overwhelming success.”

Also, the Alumni Office is sponsoring an Alumni Coffeehouse in the Union bar which will begin Thursday night at 9 p.m. and Friday night at 10:30 p.m. The performers there will be Fletcher Bright of the class of ’53 and Ansley Moses ’52.

Activities will begin early Saturday morning and run until early Sunday morning. The first event will be the Davidson College Country Fair beginning at 10 a.m. and continuing through 2 p.m. in Chambers. There will be a variety of booths and exhibitions for entertainment. After the Davidson-Hampden-Sydney football game, there will be a post-game reception and square dance at Richardson Plaza.

At 8 p.m. Saturday, Larry Coryell and the Eleventh House, one of the biggest names in jazz, will be performing in Johnston Gymnasium. Coryell is one of the most impressive guitarists of the times. According to Variety, he has successfully become one of the most accomplished fusers of jazz and rock. The W: Star-News said that a most pleasant surprise is the powerful set from guitarist Coryell’s new aggregation. Its structure is akin to the now defunct Mahavishnu Orchestra. Coryell and his Eleventh House display a high level of creative musicianship which has carried many a full house to a collective euphoria. This looks to be one of the most exciting concerts of the year, according to Marsh.

After the concert, there will be a clogging exhibition in Chambers Banquet Hall followed by a dance. The dance will begin at midnight and continue through 3 a.m. Sassafras will be returning to play. After the dance, Scott and ARA Slater will be serving breakfast in Richards House from 3:30 to 5 a.m. According to Marsh, meal tickets will be accepted for the breakfast. John Stanfield will play guitar and sing. There will also be movies from midnight to dawn shown in the Morrison Room of the College Union. After the breakfast, there will be a worship service in Richards led by Rush Otey.

“It seems to be a busy weekend, so join the Union for a helluva good Homecoming,” said Marsh.

Community-Wide Questions
By MARK WILENSKY

While it is apparent from recent news stories, editorials, and letters that there exists a housing shortage in Davidson, concrete action has not yet been undertaken. Numerous groups have taken on the problem as something “to study.” At Monday night’s town meeting, three committees referred to the problem, with none advocating anything more than further study. The Community Relations Committee, chaired by Charles Ratliff, the Downtown Development Committee, and the Planning Board passed the problem back and forth. It was continually pointed out by the committees that necessary money exists, but that no available land can be found.

THE DAVIDSONIAN contacted College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. about the possibility of the college releasing some of its land for sale to the town committee charged with the task of finding land for future low-rent housing.town. Spencer indicated that the college is considering the possibility of releasing for sale some 100 acres of land. None of the town committees have yet contacted the college, the town’s largest landowner, to request the purchase of land. Mayor Tom Sadler met Tuesday with the two students sponsoring last week’s SGA housing resolution. Sadler reiterated the point that money for low-rent housing was available, and that such a project was high on the list of town priorities. When asked about the progress of inquiries into land purchases, Sadler indicated no knowledge of any inquiries at all. Sadler pointed out that he has neither personally considered the selling of his land.

At both the town meeting and the meeting with the students, Sadler expressed hope that as “people of good will” Davidson would solve its housing problems in a positive way. Student groups are also studying the housing problem. The Eumenean Society has spent its last two meetings discussing possible action. They have discussed the problem over lunch with various student leaders, as well as with Minister to Students Rush Otey and Town Council member Nancy MacCormac. The group has considered petitioning the town for a housing code (a move the SGA unsuccessfully made last week) and also doing the legwork necessary to relocate some of the people living in the substandard areas. Otey led a discussion on priorities in the housing area at last Thursday’s lunch meeting.

The extent of the action on the housing problem has come from the college. “Minor repairs” have been made, and the housing is being upgraded. Three houses have been razed. One employee of Davidson College, whose home was written about in the original DAVIDSONIAN article, has applied to move to Lakeside, according to College Personnel Director Robert J. Stephenson. “There have been people willing to move to Lakeside and build homes,” Waymer said. “The college wouldn’t sell the land, claiming they were saving it for employees. Not many college employees who aren’t now living there will be able to afford it,” Waymer concluded. Otey claimed that the college has indicated to him that this policy may be changing. He cited news media pressure as a reason for the college’s change in its attitude concerning Lakeside property. Discussion continues, but quick action is not anticipated. Mayor Sadler pointed out at the town meeting that no action would be taken until the individuals concerned expressed their desires. One of the two students at the meeting claimed that “perhaps they just did.”

‘Servant Of Two Masters’ Opens New Drama Season
By LYNNE KEENER
Staff Writer

“The Servant of Two Masters,” the drama department’s first production of the 1974-75 season, opens this Wednesday in Hodson Hall. The classic Italian comedy will be presented for students only on Wednesday, with the general public invited to performances Thursday through Saturday, according to Professor Rupert T. Barber, the play’s director. This 18th-century comedy by Carlo Goldoni exhibits the characters and techniques of the “commedia dell’arte.” The play is a complicated tangle of disguises, mistaken identities, lost lovers, plots and cross plots, and slapstick humor. During Homecoming weekend, acrobats, jugglers, and costumed actors will parade around the campus much like the original commedia troupes which traveled from town to town. Barber said, “With carts loaded with costumes and skimpy props, they set up small stages in streets or vacant lots, and performed with a great deal of ad libbing.” Barber is pleased with the way the actors are improvising to create an “earthy feeling.” “The students handle the quality of the ‘commedia dell’arte’ well,” Barber said. “The servant in the title, Truffaldino, better known as Harlequin, is the archetypical clown—a lackey, a cunning but inept fool,” Barber continued. “True to tradition, he preys on his betters and takes their kicks to his pants.” The stock characters are masked. They include Scott Reid as the stubborn old Pantalone; Frank Bencini as Truffaldino, the witty servant; Graham Smith as Doctor Lombardi, the comic scholar; and Wayne Jonas as the innkeeper, Brighella. Drama professor Joseph T. Gardner is designing sets complete with a miniature theatre wagon and old-fashioned backdrops. Professor Barber’s wife, Carol, is designing period costumes. Furthermore, with student entertainment prior to and during the performance, the appropriate mood will evolve. Other cast members include: Emilie Bryan, Sue Colan, Rick Fay, Bill Holladay, Tony Martin, Wyndell Patterson, Frank Rambo, and Jayne Reich.