March 22, 1974

Silenced Bats Provide Nil Diamond Support

By MARK WILENSKY
Sports Editor

The Wildcat baseball team opened the '74 season last week, dropping its first three contests. As can be expected at this early stage of the season, both the hitting and fielding left much to be desired.

In the season opener against Madison College, Davidson sent the leader of last year’s staff, Joel Tew, to the mound. Tew pitched well but was the victim of some shoddy play afield. Madison managed an unearned run in the first thanks to a base on balls and an error by left fielder Allen Alig.

Baseball Schedule
March
23 VMI (2)*
25
April
3 Catawba
6 Furman*
9 at Catawba
12 at Pfeiffer
13 at Guilford
16 Citadel*
18 Guilford
27 Pfeiffer
30 at Furman*

*Denotes S. C. Games

Tew held Madison scoreless from then until the fifth when a pair of Madison doubles produced the game’s second run. The Wildcats loaded the bases after two were out in the second on a walk to Alig and singles by Mitch Stone and Gary Pomeroy, but Dave Ingold bounced to second, ending the threat. Stone singled in the sixth, and after an error by Madison pitcher Bill Henley, was driven in by Pomeroy’s single to left. Ingold then sent Vinnie Jefferson to the left field wall, but the Madison left fielder pulled down his deep drive. That was it so far as the Cat offense was concerned. With the exception of an error on Billy Todd’s grounder to short, the Cats went down in order in the final three frames.

The Davidson defense and his own wildness knocked Tew from the box in the seventh. Two walks, a sacrifice bunt erred on by Tew, an error by Ingold, and a single by Jefferson sealed four Madison runs, three of them unearned. Ross Manire took over from Tew and stopped the rally. Manire finished the game for the Cats and gave up three unearned runs in the final inning. That inning and the previous one were highlighted by the adventures and misadventures of Billy Todd in right field. While making three errors in the two frames, Todd also threw out two Madison base runners.

Despite the 7-2 loss to Madison, Davidson's chances looked good for the road trip to Charleston that followed. Dwight Plemmons and Manire were scheduled to face Baptist College and those erstwhile basketball Kamikazees, the Citadel Bulldogs.

Dave Ingold led off the scoring against Baptist with a one-out homer to left-center field. Two base hits and Dave Mayberry’s RBI single produced a run in the sixth, as did Gary Pomeroy’s solo homer in the ninth. However, these three runs were not enough. Baptist collected eleven hits and six runs off Plemmons, five of them earned. Ed Willingham had a particularly rough time afield, with two errors.a costly Ke x one in Baptist’s four-run singles. Manire’s support in the field was none too good as errors by Pomeroy, catcher Mark Rodgman, and first baseman Weicker were costly. Manire worked out of numerous jams and at this point looks to be a real Cat plus. While defense has been bad, it should improve. Ingold has all the qualifications to do well in switching from third to second, and Willingham will improve with experience at short as will Weicker at first. (Staff photo by Goodman)

GETTING READY
Wildcat baseball players have worked hard to rebound from last week’s three losses.

Scrummy Cat Offense Moves Ruggers Past Spartans
By ANN BODE
Staff Writer

Davidson's Rugby Club won its first game of the Spring season in a well-fought match against Greenville, S.C. Sunday’s cool weather spurred both teams to an especially hustling and hard-hitting game. Davidson's backs were the main driving force behind the game. They were consistently able to move the ball downfield with well-timed passes and kicks. The offensive pressure provided by the backs was heightened by the support of an alert scrum. With each downfield drive, the scrum followed closely to maintain the Davidson push. The scrum’s hustling led to a score at one point when wing forward Ted Ellett fell on a ball which rolled into the end zone. Streaking Dave Kittrell provided four more points when he broke away from the tough Greenville back line and scored an unassisted try. Davidson momentum briefly died at the beginning of the second half, long enough for Greenville to score a try and a two-point extra kick. Wildcat ruggers then stiffened, allowing no more Greenville drives. The first match ended 8-6 in Davidson's advantage.

Davidson ‘‘B’’ ruggers were defeated by a more experienced Charlotte squad. The ‘‘B’’ team showed extremely fine athletic ability but their lack of familiarity with the game gave the veteran Charlotte squad a 22-0 victory. Davidson ruggers followed their game with an extremely complete if not fine showing at the end of their party.

BEST CINEMATOGRAPHY
7 & 10 PM
Friday, March 22.
WINNER OF 2 ACADEMY AWARDS!
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR - JOHN MILLS
“A MASTERPIECE! A BEAUTIFUL PICTURE!”
ROBERT MITCHUM - TREVOR HOWARD - CHRISTOPHER JONES
JOHN MILLS - LEO McKERN and SARAH MILES
Original Screenplay by ROBERT BOLT
METROCOLOR and SUPER PANAVISION
Produced by ANTHONY HAVELOCK-ALLAN
Wanda Hale, New York Daily News
Love Auditorium

173 N. Main St.
663-4513

MEN! — WOMEN! JOBS ON SHIPS! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $3.00 for information, SEAFAX, Dept. 4-14 P.O. Box 2049, Port Angeles, Washington 98362.

shh! listening zone

Robert T. Stone, CLU and Associates
North Main Street
Davidson, N.C. 28036

College Agents
Brad Tipler
Dick Richardson
Rollie White
Bill Smith
Mike Pappas

No more feeling like a rude clumsy oaf. No more sticking together 2 papers and hoping that while you’re rolling they don't split open again. With e-2 wider you can roll a fine smoke every single time.

Admission $1.00

Authorized Dealer
THE SHOP
Electronics Unlimited

A DIVISION OF TANDY CORPORATION

The staff of WEBTV challenges a team of Davidson College’s staff in a benefit basketball game. Play-by-play announcer: Phillip Hazel.