April 12, 1974
The Davidsonian

Phase Five Investors Diversify Risks

Some call it legalized gambling. Some liken it to roulette. One can play in either of two ways: speculate or
buy the blue chips. Four Davidson sophomores, Martin Eakes, Andy Lamas, Larry Mimms, and Ed Sibley, formed a partnership and
began the life of gamblers by buying stocks on the New York Stock Exchange in January. The partnership is aptly
called Phase 5 Investors because, according to Mimms, they had 5 members originally and they assumed a Nixon Phase 5
was in the offing.

Eakes explained that investment is like poker: “The same risk that makes bridge and poker so addictive is what makes
investment so interesting. You always take the game more seriously when you have money behind your chips. I figure our
partnership is a good chance to learn while the stakes are still low.”

Phase 5 Investors have invested $3200 out of their total contributed capital of $5500. “We are not losing any sleep
over our stocks and we don't have any executive ulcers yet,” Mimms quipped. “No one has invested more than he
can afford to lose, but you better believe that we'd hate to see any of our money gobbled up by
the Dow Jones Machine,” he said. “We are growing, but everything we do is still on a rather miniature scale.
Unfortunately, we have lost everything in the last week that we made in the first month,” Eakes said.

The biggest problem that faced these four investors was the initial organization and legalization. Sibley stated that after studying various
alternative forms of organization, they decided that a general partnership would be best suited to their goals. “In forming the
partnership we didn't have to comply with legal red tape and lawyer's fees. We opened an account with the Bache
Brokerage firm, filed for an employer identification number, established a checking account, and wrote partnership articles.

“Our next series of problems involved setting up the books and devising a research stock evaluation method.” According to Sibley,
Phase 5 Investors do their own research and play their own hunches. They rank a company within its industry, weighing
factors such as stock price and dividend, along with company performance in the past five years.

“We made our first investment decision at about 2 a.m. one Tuesday morning,” Lamas stated. “We decided then to buy
Diversified Mt. at 14. The actual price of the stock was 15, and our stock broker told us that there
was no way that we would be able to buy at 14. Later in the day he called back saying
that the price was 14¾. We didn’t budge. Even later he called saying the price was 14⅝, and that price
was as low as the...”

---

Rye Bread Ruben ................... $.85
Hot Pastrami & Swiss ..... 1.00
Turkey & Swiss ............ .85
Hard Roll Stacked Holland Ham & Swiss ...... $.85
Turkey & Swiss ............ .85
Corned Beef & Swiss ....... .90
Hot Pastrami & Swiss ..... 1.00Stock could go. Anyway, to make a long story short, the following day the stock
price dropped sharply to 13½, bypassing 14, and we bought at 13½." Since that time, Phase 5 has purchased stock
in two other companies, but the stocks have performed poorly in the past week. Sibley claimed confidently that they will
make money in the long term, even though present economic conditions are uncertain. "Since there are only four of us,
we can meet regularly, but at the same time find convenient times for everyone. At our partnership meetings, we discuss
our investments and make buy/sell decisions," Lamas stated. Lamas proudly displays a filing cabinet which holds their annual reports, research
reports, and brokerage information. "We hope to have eventually an annual report from every company on the New York Stock
Exchange," he stated. "Presently we are investigating such investment alternatives as buying on margin, writing and buying puts and calls,
and buying into the Chicago Board of Exchange."

"The partnership is an experiment in working with other people as equals," Eakes said. "Part of my interest in the
company is in seeing how we work out (or fail to work out) our problems and conflicts as a group."
Sibley entered the venture because of what he termed "a long and moneyed interest in the stock market," while Lamas
wanted an opportunity to establish some contacts in the business world. "I went into the group, like my partners, primarily
to learn about the working of the Stock Market," Mimms said. According to Lamas, they have learned that the price
of a stock on any given day is not determined by how well that company performs, but by political decisions
and events of that day, and by the attractiveness or "name appeal" of the company. "Our philosophy has been like
a poster I've seen. 'Behold the turtle who moves forward only when he sticks his neck out! Unfortunately, that’s when
he’s most vulnerable'," Mimms said.

Drama Schedule
April 19: A Marriage Proposal
April 26: The Romancers
April 27: Dracula
April 28: Dracula
May 1: Dracula
May 8: Four DC Originals
Drama Follies, 1974

This term, the Drama Workshop is sponsoring 12 plays involving Davidson students, seven have already been presented, and "Dracula" has
been cast. But tryouts for the four D.C. Originals will be held Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Drama Workshop.
All thespian skills.

Now Happy Hour
Closed Mondays
Holland Ham & Swiss
Liverwurst Swiss & Onion
Submarines
Steak Sub
Steak & Provolone Sub
Cold-Cut Sub
Meatball Sub
Holland Ham Sub
Turkey & Swiss Sub

Special: All above orders served with New York Potato Salad - Kosher Pickle - Potato chips. Also serving pizzas.

Open For Lunch 11:30 A.M. - 2:30 P.M.
