Netters Bow To App

To Furman In Co

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Managing Editor

The Davidson tennis team ran into some hard luck this week as they dropped two losses to the top two teams in the Southern Conference.

Appalachian crushed the Cats on Tuesday by a score of 9-0. Furman completed the two-day fiasco by ripping the Cats 5-1, in a rain-delayed match.

“I cannot say that I am disappointed because we lost to two really good teams,” commented head coach Jeff Frank. “Sure, I wanted to win some of the games for pride and other things. But when you lose to teams like them; well, there is not much you can say.”

There were three matches that went to three sets in the Mountaineer contest. The Cats, of course, lost all three.

“They played the best match they have played the entire season, according to their coach,” Frank explained. “I knew in order to beat them, they would have to have an off day. It was pretty obvious that they did not have anything of that sort.”

Frank went on to express that they were just a better team, man-for-man.

The Furman match could have been closer.

“We just did not play smart, except for Bill (Allen) at the number one spot,” explained Frank. Allen won his match in straight sets by a tally of 6-2, 6-2.

“I think Bill just felt he could beat him,” noted Frank. “And he certainly did that.”

The reason for the short score of 5-1 was due to the rain which forced the cancellation of all three doubles matches. The Cats had split the two sets in the top doubles bracket and were down one set in the number two doubles, but had a five-five tie in the second set.

John Mitchell ran his match to three sets before dropping the final one, 6-4.

“These two games really do not matter much as far as the conference seedings go,” Frank commented. “As long as it doesn’t matter whether we finish third or fourth, we really should not be too discouraged.”

In other matches this past week, the Cats were more successful on the road as they edged VPI by a score of 5-4 and then bombed VMI, 8-1.

“We really did not have too much trouble with either team, although the VPI match was very close,” said Frank. “The two wins at least gave us some momentum for the matches at home.”

The Cats take to the road again now as they visited Atlantic Christian yesterday and play at East Carolina today.

Frank noted that the Atlantic Christian encounter would be a very good match, since it was on hard courts and the AC team was very strong. He also mentioned that the team would be missing some players because of comprehensive exams coming up this weekend.

On a brighter note, Frank announced the signing of his third top prospect for the coming year. He now feels he has three of his top seven and has his hopes on at least one or two more.

The new Cat is Stuart Boswell from Alexandria, Va. Boswell has come down to the college before and played with some of the present Cat netters.

Frank is very high on Boswell. He is ranked third in the metropolitan area of Washington, D.C., which Frank classified as a very tough tennis section.

Boswell had scholarship offers from two top schools in the Southeastern Conference.

“He is definitely a blue-chipper,” praised Frank enthusiastically. “We are very pleased to have him and know he will contribute greatly to our program in the coming year.”