March 29, 1974

The Davidsonian

Clinical Counseling Divided

By MARK DEATON
Managing Editor

Davidson College will contract with three clinical psychologists next year, with each counselor working one day per week, according to
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Dr. Meredith Hall, who now handles all the psychological counseling duties at Davidson in two
days, will continue to counsel next year. However, the college is contracting for eight fewer hours per week.

In addition, Dr. W. Gateman, presently a professor of psychology, will handle part-time teaching duties and work one day per
week. Dr. Amelia Dockery has also contracted with the college to counsel one day per week during the year.

Dean of Students Will H. Terry finds much potential benefit in the counseling program change. “There's something to be said
for diversity in counseling. We are providing for an extra day of counseling and an expanded number of people to
do counseling. I think it's essential to have a woman on staff. It’s also good to have the extra referral,”
Terry added. “We're doing way beyond what is expected of a college in the way of providing clinical counseling for
students," Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan maintained. “We've always assumed a certain amount of responsibility here in
this field. We had made available a staff person on the role as a clinical counselor. A few years ago
we decided to bring in someone unknown to academia at Davidson. We felt it might be easier for students to
talk to someone whom they know is not related to the inside,” Bevan said.

“I feel that Dr. Hall has been extremely successful in his counseling. He has seen an unbelievable number of students,
and there seems to be a pretty good feeling about him among students,” Bevan said. Terry also seemed pleased with
Hall’s counseling. “I think his counseling has been very effective. He's been pretty busy, especially in the winter and spring.
I think there have been times when...

Davidsonian Staff

Managing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER
MARK DEATON
CHARLIE SHEPHERD
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Sports Editor:
MARK WILENSKY

Senior News Editors:
TOM AINSWORTH
TOM BRUCE
JOE EARLE
ANDY LAMAS

News Editors:
STEVE BELL
HARRIETT HODGES
FRANCIS TOWNSEND
LEX VEAZEY

Editor:
PETE GOODMAN

Editorial Consultant:
ERIC WALKER

Cartoonists:
STEVE BALKCOM
PAUL MITCHELL

Associate Editors:
ALAN BLAKLEY
DOUG BROWN
STEVE CANTERBURY
TODD EADES
MARY HOBBIE
GUS SUCCOP
MARY TURNER
MILES WARD

Operations:
BILL ELLETT

Assistant Managing Editors:
MATTHEW COVINGTON
CHARLES KENNON
LARRY MIMMS

Assistant Business Manager:
DAVID TRADER

Circulation:
RICKY BELL
JEFF NEIKIRK

Advertising:
JEFF SICH

Typist:
PATTI SHANKWEILER

Contributors this week:
Russell Carter, Pete Celentano, Woody Connette, John Cook, Joe Duncan, Greg Dunn, Wayne Gulledge, Hal Huntley, Frazier Marsh, Joe McMillan,
and Rick Zimmerman.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $5.00.D Letetetete oles o
eleleleleleleteletete counseling to do than he can handle,” Terry added. “People is great,” said Butner. “However, I still don’t think
it allows for enough availability of time with clinical psychologists. I don't like the idea of cutting Meredith Hall’s counseling
time in half. I think that the services we've gotten from Meredith have been very, very good. He’s built a
great rapport with students, and his office hours are almost completely filled,” Butner added. “He’s demonstrated his viability, and I
think we ought to expand on a sure thing.”

April 5, THE DAVIDSONIAN will the week contest open to Davidson be given away, and photos will be judged on
quality, subject matter, and clarity. Only black and white photos will be accepted. Please have them on the editor’s desk
(in the Union) no later than 6:00 p.m. Tuesday.

Laundry Suggests Transition To Non-Compulsory Charge
By WAYNE GULLEDGE
Staff Writer

(Ed. Note: The following is in response to Steve Canterbury’s column last week.)

It might be quite the usual thing next year to see Davidson men cowering before whirring washing machines, overcome by
the “cold, warm and hot” dilemma. In fact, if the laundry is eliminated as has been suggested, the sight might
become commonplace. That inequities exist in the payment of the laundry fee is undeniable. Men lack the option of doing
their own laundry and thereby avoiding the fee. It would be unfair to force everyone to pay the fee if
some sincerely object to it. But phasing out the laundry service completely has its drawbacks.

First, by doing one’s own washing, it will be possible to save money, but the possibilities have been exaggerated. Considering
that time is money at Davidson, doing one’s own laundry actually involves the expenditure of some capital. Since most women
spend at least one half hour each week washing clothes, the time thus spent over the course of the year
effectively eradicates money conserved otherwise, if it is taken to be worth the minimum wage. Persons participating in athletics or
other extracurricular activities may find it difficult to find the time to do a load of laundry. And there are
very few men who could easily turn out the finished shirts that the laundry now does.

An alternative to the abolition of the laundry is the fee. Granted, there would be an element of financial risk,
but by registering students at the very beginning of each year, inefficiency can be minimized. The laundry is already in
the process of scaling down its operations according to Laundry Manager Frances Beaver. With a smaller staff, the volume has
fallen off at other schools which have eliminated compulsory fees. Many of the employees are of retirement age and the
college is concerned that these positions may not be easily filled. Given the rising costs, it is not surprising that
the laundry is running in the red. But losses last year appeared to have been more serious than they actually
were. Salary increases and new equipment purchases combined to create an abnormally large deficit.

Many students find doing their own laundry objectionable as well as prohibitively time-consuming. They are entitled to the option of
having it done for them no less than those who object to the fee are entitled to the option of
using the machines. With good management, it should be possible for Davidson’s laundry to make the transition to non-compulsory fees.
Alteration rather than abolition should be the focus of our efforts.

Eiler was referred to the Residence Hall Association.
