Ten

March 15, 1974 @ The Davidsonian

Folklore has it that egg salad was discovered by North Carolina Civil War Governor Zeb Vance, who was searching at
the time for an answer to the fried fish-pit cooked barbecue paradox which threatened the health of all Tar Heel
citizens.

In twenty-three years, come November, the art of egg salad making has reached its zenith in the M & M
Soda Shop, where Potts delicately mixes fifteen dozen eggs and three gallons of mayonnaise to produce this gourmet delight.

Co-conspirator Murray Fleming—hence the M & M designation—is an inventor in his own right. For he was the first to
make a large orange, squeezing an orange instead of a lemon mistakenly in a moment of culinary passion.

They have seen their establishment serve as the largest off-campus fraternity house, as the home of Saturday night supper supreme,
and as a meeting place for town and gown, for egghead and redneck alike.

Tomorrow for lunch, partake of the legendary egg salad and large orange. Ask what Lefty Driesell was really like, what
basketball team was Davidson's best, or what your favorite professor was like as a student. You may be surprised.

Viva la egg salad plate!

Alumnus Recollections

Every alumni weekend, a crowd gathers for lunch at the M & M, and for a look at perhaps the
only thing that is like it always was. You wonder if the people in there will remember your name, whether
you have changed more than they have, and if the food is good anymore. There were times after chapel when
everyone would go down at seven o'clock, and there would be a hundred big oranges lined up on the counter
and a hundred more ready to go.

It seems like there used to be a row of fraternity pictures above the booths, and that’s how you learned
everyone's name.

Maybe students today don't learn all the names that go with all the faces. With the streaking, they probably don’t
notice faces anymore.

They used to give away the pie and coffee left at the end of the day, and if you played
your cards right, every once in a while you could be just finishing a ham and cheese when they got
ready to lock the door.

With things so different now (there's no mandatory chapel), they close early and don't fix Saturday supper.

The orange juice has a little too much sugar, and canned soups always give you gas. The seats still groan
though, and that may be the same cash register. If it isn’t exactly the same, it's damn close.

Police Report

About every time I go in there, Tom Sadler's back in that far booth drinking coffee, propped forward on his
elbows and looking calmly out the window, hoping that if something's got to happen, it will happen right in front
of this store.

Just sit down here and make like you're reading for a while, and you can hear all about the town
government, and about which business transactions would be best to look into.

If this place wasn't here, nobody would ever find the mayor.

These students though talk a different language. All I ever hear them say about the place is that it’s strange.
I don’t guess there is any other place like it. I don’t see why that makes it stranger than any
place else.

If I had my way, they'd serve a good hamburger, which would make things just perfect and maybe not as
strange to the students.

People from the college get on my nerves because they all act alike. They don’t speak to anyone they don’t
know; they look just a little bit too clean, and sometimes they come close to having that Davidson smell all
over them.

Six o'clock is about the right time for avoiding all this mess. But nothing much they serve sits well in
your stomach that early in the morning. I guess you can’t win in everything.

From the Orange Makers

We've seen a lot of faces go by in the last 20 odd years. Every once in a while a
fellow comes in and has that look on his face that means he’s hoping somebody will speak to him.

It’s so hard to remember all the names, though. We've worked it out so we speak and ask how he’s
doing and get around to finding out what his job and family are like without saying any names. It makes
most people happy.

We've had students call from as far away as California asking how to make egg salad.

And plenty of couples who are married now used to come in here when they were dating. Like they say,
we've seen plenty of water go under the bridge.

Students today just don’t act as friendly as they used to. I can remember the day when we knew every
boy’s name, and most of them felt free to ring up their purchases on the cash register and make change
when it looked like we were busy.

One batch of egg salad is about the same as another when you've done it hundreds of times. We make
it up about eight gallons at a time now, you know.

I think it's better than any egg salad you can get anywhere else. I feel just crazy enough sometimes to
do what someone said in here one day: make up a big pot of egg salad and put it outside
at night for the streakers.

After all, if Joe Namath can wear pantyhose, what can’t you do these days?

Photos by Trawick
