Cheerleading Squad Seeks Rejuvenated Performances

By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

A smaller but experienced Wildcat cheerleading squad will be featured at Davidson football and basketball games this year, according to
Cheerleader Coordinator Diane Stone.

“Though the size of the squad has been trimmed somewhat, we felt that this group will be one of the
most enthusiastic that Davidson has ever had,” she said.

For better organization, the 10-member squad was selected last spring following a series of tryouts.

The six boys selected include Captain Mark Connors, Paul Banta, Joe Logan, Sean Robertson, Howard Payne, and Ed Crosland.

The female members, coordinated by senior Anne Bode, include Marian Perkins, Martha Royster, and Cathy Ramos.

“I am very pleased with the progress being made by the kids,” commented Stone. “They really have been working hard.”

Though the cheerleaders are operating on a limited budget from the athletic department, they hope to cheer for all of
the away football games and a majority of the away basketball games.

“We are even hoping to fund the money to fly a few cheerleaders to distant basketball games,” said Stone.

In addition to a new set of uniforms, the cheerleaders hope to utilize a new speaker system for leading cheers
at football games. “Hopefully these speakers will increase crowd participation during games,” said Connors.

The squad is awaiting the arrival of some gymnastics equipment ordered last year. These aids will be incorporated into the
cheering routines.

Bode explained that the squad is in the process of adding new members. “Early this year some freshmen asked about
joining the squad. We were told by Stone and Director of Athletics Tom Cartmill that it would be impossible to
expand because of lack of funds,” she said.

“Then we got the idea of making positions for alternates. Then new uniforms wouldn’t have to be bought, because the
alternates would take the place of members for some games. This was agreed on, and so we are now trying
to pick alternates,” Bode explained.

Bode felt that the cheerleaders have suffered from a lack of group unity. She said that members are trying to
correct this problem.

“This year we’re trying to give an impression of a coherent group and not 10 loose individuals. Cutting the size
of the squad has helped. We have been working well together, and we will make the squad a ‘worthwhile organization,’”
Bode concluded.

“With all of the hard work and enthusiasm that we have on this squad,” commented Connors, “this should be one
of the most active squads that Davidson has ever seen.”

Cheerleaders Mark Connors and Martha Royster practice their thing. Tryouts for this year’s squad were held last spring.

Whatever you want, we’ve got

ARMY—NAVY STORE

Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.
Ph. 664-5118

170 N. Main
Nat E. Smith

LADIES

Starts Oct. 4

World Famous PLAZA THEATRE

Dragon Aire Ltd. Presents

Jagger Dances!
Jagger Explodes!
Jagger Delivers the Fifteen Hits that Shook the World of Music!

Shows Daily 3 & 8 P.M.
Late Shows Fri. & Sat. 11:30
