“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” - Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

FOUR APRIL 26, 1974

The Last Frontier

The 300 acres of land in Burke County owned by Davidson College is now the subject of a mounting controversy. On the one hand, the college wants to sell the land, making somewhere in the neighborhood of $85,000. The other side is taken by the Biology Department, which would like to use the land for research. A possible compromise would be for the college to wait to sell the land only after it has found another site, perhaps even more suitable to the purposes of the science departments, which it could obtain as a replacement. Since this land has been used for timber and gravel in the past, it is not the greatest source of research material. Thus the college could provide an even greater service to the science facilities here by taking the preceding action. However, we do not feel that the college should sell the land before it has found an adequate replacement. The value of this land to the prospective scientists here is something which should not be handled lightly.

Binary

Is it possible that there are two Davidson Colleges, each having its own proper existence and its own reason for existence? Over the past several months, the seemingly liberal students have been lectured to by such conservative figures as Calvin Malefyt, William Buckley, James J. Kilpatrick, and now the culmination of the whole act: at the convocation ceremony of last week where we were obliged to endure the immaculate tirade against the godless forces of communism. Dr. Biedenkopf presented the tired arguments for the defense of the free enterprise system that we have suffered through since we were innocent babes. Again and again we heard that freedom consists in the right to exploit the world’s natural resources (and human resources too) to the end of making a profit. A member of a rich society himself, Biedenkopf neglected to consider the ‘whole world situation’ and to recognize the need for a voluntary asceticism and redistribution of the world’s wealth on the part of the developed countries. The unbridled “cowboy” economy that he seemed to defend as constituting “freedom” is just one more step toward disaster.

It seems that there is the Davidson that wants very much to present itself as by and large conservative and consequently, to attract the support of the wealthy. This, of course, is necessary for the continuation of the college as a private institution, since the rich man must be convinced that he is not somehow paying for his own noose. The students that hail from social backgrounds that dictate conservatism for their survival will welcome these speakers, but those with any semblance of a liberal conscience will want to hear from the other side as well from time to time. Most amazing is that most of Davidson’s faculty members and administrators appear to embrace liberal views. But then, the wealthy alumnus is always crouching at the campus door. Who has a split personality?

That’s What They All Said

A strange thought occurred to us last week during the alumni festivities. Why would all those people from the classes of 1914 and 1924 want to come back here? What could there be that attracts them after a half century or more? One senior observed, “You’d think it’d be too painful to come back here, a mere shell of what you once were. No one can change the past, so why do they try?”

Another senior commented that the old-timers may look old, but that soon graduation would make him feel old. “Jesus, my little sister calls me a ‘Gee’ now.” And it’s true. Many of the seniors won’t have to wait for their 50th reunion in the year 2024 (amazing isn’t it!). Those are the ones that will fall soon after they leave Davidson if they haven’t already.

Say, in a few years on the outside, you become hardened and sealed in your ways. The first few years out are the most deadly. Remarked a third senior, “It’ll creep up on you so young and before long, just like Tom said, you begin to defend all...the things you once criticized. Think about that—think about the plague.” Seniors, listen to yourselves in the next couple of weeks and maybe you’ll hear things to the tune of, “We’ve made a blood pact not to set foot on this campus again until each has enough money to endow every chair in the history department except one” or, “No ... you won’t see me back here. All the ones that come back only do so because they have something to show off, and they’d all be conservative and ... rich and I would have nothing in common with them.” Lots of talk and lots of luck. We'll all see what happens.

The Davidsonian

Park Characterizes Untapped Emotion
By SUSAN IVEY

(Ed. Note: This is the third in a series of articles written by students participating in a seminar with Campus Psychologist Meredith Hall on the quality of life at Davidson.)

“We're living in a land of make-believe
And trying not to let it show...
Unlock all the shutters on your windows
Unlock all the locks upon your doors
Dust away the cobwebs from your daydreams
No secret comes between us anymore”
—Moody Blues, “Land of Make-Believe”

Hobart Park is a small space that contains a multiplicity of the surprises of nature. Crowded into the small expanse are numerous camellias, daffodils, wild violets, dogwoods, pines, and azaleas. Hobart Park is in itself an unchanging entity, but the mood of the onlooker sometimes casts a pall over the freshness and vibrancy of the scenery: eventually nature moves in on the onlooker and begins to transform his outlook. Nature, as described by Wordsworth, cannot bring back the lost radiance of childhood, yet it can serve as a reminder of the glory and joy and innocence that has passed away.

Tucked in between the soccer field and Jackson Court, Hobart Park is part of the healing calm of nature: the nature that remains constant to its purpose and season. Surprisingly, few people take advantage of the Park and some students are completely unaware of its existence. The moral of this story is that at Davidson many of the most beautiful and enjoyable things in life are ignored, or at best relegated to the realm of things to be done only if all other work is completed (something I believe impossible).

Some of the reasons for this neglect of certain aspects of the human experience have been mentioned in previous articles: the pressure to achieve and the lack of traditional modes of communication and relaxation. An additional reason is the trouble and time involved. It takes time and courage to examine oneself, to think rationally about the beliefs of other people but isn’t that the original premise and purpose of a liberal arts education—not the memorization of facts for a review, but the development of the skills involved in interpersonal and intrapersonal relationships and actions?

For the Davidson College student to attempt to establish a real, deep relationship involves time and the ability to refuse to be pushed into the mold of requirements and competition and apathy. In my opinion, however, that is the crux of ‘higher education’: higher self-awareness and the courage and confidence to look for the more beautiful aspects of people, to cultivate the knowledge that facts and figures are not and never can be wisdom and to resist ignoring the fact that there are people and a world beyond the confines of this campus; that that world includes dullness and pain, but that it also contains the Hobart Park that emerges to surprise and reassure the viewer that joy and peace do exist—Hobart parks consisting of the beauties of nature and the beauties of the human being.

Let’s face it, it’s a hell of a lot easier to make the excuse “I've got too much to do” than to face a situation which would require genuine emotional responses and value examinations. Books are definitely much easier to cope with than people. It’s easier to write a paper than make an honest attempt at communication or face an examination and interrogation about your beliefs and their validity.