THIS HURTS
An immovable Davidson object collides with an irresistible ‘The Mench’ force. (Photo by Goodman)

Eke Davidsonian | Date, 1974

Thirteen Football Ends on 2-7 Note As Farrell Has First Season
By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

The Davidson football team ended the season with their second win and seventh loss. The win was a 28-20 victory
over Defiance College which the Wildcats almost gave away in the closing minutes. The loss was a 56-21 humiliation at
the hands of The Citadel.

The Defiance game started slowly as neither team could mount a serious drive the entire first quarter. Early in the
second quarter, Defiance was stopped on a fourth down and one by George Weicker on the Davidson 44-yard line. Davidson
took only five plays to score from there as David Harper hit Stan Brown on a bomb down the sideline
for a 44-yard touchdown.

Seat Shift? Burns Students With Misdirected Priorities.

And so I am here, trying to sum the whole situation up. How do we explain the fact that the
students “got shafted” on the seats in the Coliseum? Earlier this year this column pointed out the possibility of poor
seating for students in the Coliseum. Coach Bo Brickels told me that he believed the seating would be satisfactory. I’m
sorry coach, you’re wrong. The seating is not only not good, it is lousy. There is nothing worse than viewing
a B-Ball game from the end zone. Looking through a glass backboard to view a game is less than pleasant.
But, I remember that it was not so long ago when we sat on the parquet floor on the sidelines.
So I wondered what the explanation was and my inquiry led me to the conclusion that the administration of this
college rests in the hands of a bunch of liars.

Actually, liars is a term which does not adequately sum up our administration. Administration policy toward the students is that
of deception. They not only lie, but they are sneaky about it. This is so blatantly obvious. They lie to
the student up to the last possible moment and then it’s too late to correct the error. This is what
happened with the yearbook, and this is what happened with “our” seats.

During halftime of Saturday night’s basketball game I asked Mr. Cartmill (our new athletic director) why the students' seats were
taken away from them. He replied that student unity was the crux of the matter, a stronger cheering section was
the goal. Bullshit! Mr. Cartmill must think the students at Davidson are idiots, because even I saw through this less
than truthful answer. Two words can sum up the reason behind the “great seat shift”, and they are “alumni” and
“money”. Perhaps Mr. Cartmill has lost grasp of the obvious, but how could he deny that our seats were taken
away to be sold to our illustrious alumni? I say the hell with the alumni, and the hell with those
who cater to the alumni.

I do not question that the alumni contribute generously to Davidson. However, it may interest our administration that I too
“donate” over $3500.00 annually. One does not donate money in order to receive special service; otherwise, it is not a
donation which occurs, but instead a payment for services rendered.

Certainly, it is unfair to accuse a whole administration of being liars (there are those associated with the administration who
are not), but when those in sensitive areas exhibit credibility highly questionable (in other words, they lie through their teeth),
then no choice remains but to generalize about others indirectly involved. Yes, Dr. Spencer, you must bear the brunt of
this latest development, but let’s not dwell on what has already transpired. The question remains; what can be done? As
far as I can see, nothing. Those seats have already been sold and the only thing the College can do
is steal those seats back, and certainly we couldn’t expect that. Maybe what we should do as a show of
protest is steal our seats back. The next time we go to the Coliseum...for a game’ why doesn’t everyone take
a good seat, and when alumni march up to you, politely hand them your end zone ticket. Perhaps what might
be better is a series of chants which get our point across to the alumni. I suppose that there is
really nothing further one can say except to ask when the deception will end. When will students be treated like
they deserve?

Duncan's extra point was good. Pavia’s defense, which had played superbly throughout the early going, continued their great play and
forced Defiance to punt. After only a 15-yard punt, Larry Hardaway broke through on the first play for 42 yards.
Four plays later, Steve Still scored on a one-yard plunge. Duncan’s P.A.T. made it 14-0. Defiance came right back, however,
and scored a touchdown on a 63-yard drive in 12 plays just before the half ended. The extra point was
no good, so Davidson went into the locker room with a 14-6 lead.

Midway through the third period, Davidson’s Allen Schaberg intercepted a pass and returned it down to the Defiance 15-yard line.
From there, it took the Wildcats only three plays to score. Gary Pofiteroy scored on a three-yard pass from Harper.
The extra point made it Davidson 21, Defiance 6 with only three minutes left in the third quarter.

In the fourth quarter, Davidson scored what many considered to be their insurance touchdown when Harper threw to Freshman Chris
Harris for a 35-yard touchdown on a beautifully executed play with 5:43 remaining. However, Defiance was not ready to roll
over and die. Eight plays after the kickoff, they scored on a 29-yard pass play. Their two-point extra point was
good, and they trailed 28-14.

On the ensuing kickoff, everyone was expecting the onside kick, but somehow Defiance recovered the inevitable. Eight plays later and
with only 58 seconds left, Defiance scored again. Defiance went for another two-point extra point but was unsuccessful, so Davidson
had an eight-point lead, 28-20. (See DEFIANCE, page 16)

If you’re one of tomorrow’s physicians, you should know — today. For instance, you should know about the opportunities offered
by Armed Forces Health Care. As an officer in the service of your choice, you'll work in modern facilities with
up-to-date equipment and modern, up-to-date professionals in every area of Health Care.

For example, you should know that Armed Forces Health Care offers opportunities for initial training and advanced study in practically
every specialty, not to mention the opportunity to practice it. You should know, too, that we make it possible for
you to pursue a post-residency period at either military or civilian institutions.

And if all this strikes a spark, then you should certainly know about our scholarship program. If you qualify, the
tuition for your medical education will be covered fully while you participate in the program. And during that time, you'll
receive a good monthly stipend. Just one more thing...we think if you know all the facts today, you may want
to be one of us tomorrow.

Find out. Send in the coupon and get the facts today. There are limited openings for the academic year 1975-1976.

Armed Forces Scholarships
P.O. Box 16114

I desire information for the following program:
Navy ☐ Air Force ☐

Name (please print)
Address
City
State
Zip
Soc. Sec. #
Enrolled at (school)
To graduate in (year)
Date of birth (month) (year)
(Degree)

Dedicated to Medicine and the people who practice it.
