Four March 15, 1874

Dear Savidecniar,

NOTE

TO MEMBERS OF THE DAVIDSON FACULTY, ADMINISTRATION, and STUDENTS:

The expanded ad hoc committee appointed by the Trustees in 1874 to review the overall governance structure of the college and to make recommendations has now reached a point in its deliberations where it would like to review specific feedback.

On March 2, the committee met with representatives of the Trustees. At that meeting, it was agreed that the sections will have the support of the faculty, administrative personnel, and students.

A draft of the College Constitution is attached for your consideration. It will be subject to review and suggestions which flow from the March 2 meetings:

1. The College Constitution and by-laws will be expected to mediate the Constitution and By-Laws under:
   - To identify the areas of college governance.
   - To create a simplified governance structure which gives faculty, administration, and students respective primary roles and responsibilities in the areas where each has primary interest.
   - To establish a governance procedure which, if properly followed, will facilitate good communication among the Trustees, the President, and the Faculty Executive Committee, as they are now.

2. In all other areas of college activity, including fiscal, personnel, and development:

Continuing approval of the Trustees.

Article I
Administration

1. Composition. The central Administration of the College is vested in the offices of President, Vice President for Academic Affairs, Vice President for Finance and Development, and such subordinate offices as may from time to time be proposed by the President and approved by the Trustees (provided that all offices in existence at the effective date of this Constitution are confirmed as they exist until altered or abolished in accordance with this Constitution).

2. Appointments and Terms. The President is appointed by the Trustees upon nomination by the President, in consultation with Faculty, students, and the administrative staff in carrying out their Committee function. Other administrative officers are appointed by the Trustees upon nomination of the President. They serve for such terms and upon such conditions as may be proposed by the President and approved by the Trustees.

3. Faculty Consultation and Advice. The appointment, abolition, or significant change of the offices of Vice-President for Academic Affairs, Vice-President for Finance and Development, Dean of Students, Registrar, Director of the Library, or Dean of the Center for Honors Studies, and the nomination by the President of persons to be any of the foregoing administrative officers of the College may be done only after consultation by the President with the Executive Committee of the Faculty. The written advice of the Faculty Executive Committee shall accompany every such proposal or nomination by the President which he gives to the Trustees. Provided that all administrative offices and their occupants as of the effective date of this Constitution are confirmed without requirement of such advice.

4. General Powers and Duties. The President is the chief executive officer of the College and Chairman of the Faculty. He is responsible to the Trustees for the achievement of the stated purposes of the College and for its ongoing operations, and to this end, he shall have the foregoing general powers, the specific powers given him in other Articles of this Constitution, and all powers commonly associated with and required for the discharge of the duties of a chief executive officer of a college. He represents the College in its relationships with related associations, other institutions, the news media, government agencies, alumni, and the general public. He organizes and directs administrative officers in the performance of their assigned duties. He is a member of the Faculty and is entitled to preside at its formal meetings. He reports periodically to the Trustees on the condition of the College and proposes programs and courses of action requiring Trustee approval.

The Vice-Presidents have the powers and duties delegated to them by the President. Other offices of administration have the powers and duties delegated to them from time to time by that Vice President charged by the President with responsibility for supervising their particular functions.

5. Information on Administrative Organization. The President shall maintain at all times in a College Registry a general table of administrative organization, available for inspection by any Faculty member, administrative officer, employee, or student of the College in the offices of central administration during regular business hours.

Article II
The Faculty

1. Composition. The Faculty consists of all persons who are employed on a full-time basis by the College and who teach halftime or more at the College.

2. The faculty elects from its teaching Faculty membership a Vice-Chairman of the Faculty who presides in the absence of the President and the Vice-President for Academic Affairs or at such other times as the President so designates. The Vice-Chairman of the Faculty serves as a representative of the Faculty with the Administration and performs such other functions as are specified in this Constitution. The Vice-Chairman is selected from the tenured Faculty for a term of two years.

3. Upon motion of any teaching Faculty member passed by a 2/3 vote of all members of the Faculty, the Faculty convenes in executive session on matters of any matter specified in the motion.

4. Meetings and Proceedings: By-laws. The Faculty ordinarily meets monthly and in special sessions as may be called. The times and places of regular meetings, the provisions for calling special meetings, and the procedures for conducting meetings are specified in the By-laws.