Six
April 26, 1974
The Davidsonian

Entertainment
By FRAZIER MARSH

Herb Jackson At The Mint Museum

A selection of new prints and small paintings by Herb Jackson is being featured at Gallery 501 in Charlotte until May 9. Jackson is a nationally known artist of exceptional talent. His works have been exhibited in Washington, the Art Institute in Chicago, and the Ringling Museum in Sarasota, Fla., as well as the Mint Museum in Charlotte. The pieces being shown are reminiscent of Jackson's earlier cloud series as well as a suite of etchings depicting the four elements - earth, sky, air, and water - which reflect the artist’s continuing interest in what is real and not real. The Gallery is located at 501 Homestead Place.

The Oratorio Singers Of Charlotte

The Oratorio Singers of Charlotte will present their second concert of this season Saturday, May 4 at 8:15 pm in Ovens Auditorium. This outstanding chorus of 150 voices, under the direction of Donald Plott, will be accompanied by full orchestration. The Singers will perform Handel's masterpiece “Israel in Egypt.” Double choruses, choral recitatives, and fugues, along with pictorial effects from the orchestra, evoke a musical depiction of the plague of flies, the plague of lice, and the plague of hailstones. “Israel in Egypt” is a fantastic achievement of imaginative choral and orchestral writing. The Oratorio Singers have been part of the cultural scene in Charlotte for 23 years. They have performed over 60 of the great choral masterpieces, and their reputation as one of the leading choral groups in the country is well known. Tickets are on sale at the Oratorio office. Call 372-9664 for tickets or pick them up at the door.

Letters To The Editor

Marv Hobbie

Marquis de Sade Delights In English Comprehensives

The smoke has cleared off the scene of one major battle, but the war is not over. It's comprehensives time again. Last Saturday was one of those days that would've delighted the Marquis de Sade. English Comprehensives, History Comprehensives, Law School Admission Tests, and Dental School Tests were all given Saturday morning. There was a general air of “we who are about to die salute you” hanging like a cloud around Chambers. It contrasted rather sharply with the bright nostalgia of Alumni weekend and the lightly lit alumni. Next Saturday morning will be more of the same as Sociology Comprehensives and Graduate Record Exams are given - on Spring Frolics weekend, no less.

Comprehensives may be inevitable - like Death and taxes - a necessary evil - but I doubt it. I don’t deny that some form of testing or some evidence of knowledge in one's major field is desirable, but I don't feel that the student should emerge from Comprehensives with a trip to Dr. Marshall for a picture of the new hole in his (or her) stomach. The academic pressure at Davidson is usually at a level under which most of us can still operate. I have heard students say that they do their best work under pressure. This attitude should not be taken for granted as the norm, however. The theory that the student body will study and achieve excellence if the screws are tightened just a little bit more won't wash. “A little more pressure” leads to ulcers, destruction of pleasure in the act of learning, and suicides. The extreme of suicide may seem melodramatic and discounted as journalistic sensationalism. But when you look out the window in a...

Pinckney Attacks Financier Fallacies, Cornell Resolves Ambiguous Stance

To the Editor:

The article in the April 12 issue concerning Mr. Cornell's speech on the financial problems resulting from coeducation includes several misconceptions and fallacies which need to be clarified. First of all, the trustees have made two decisions: 1) to make Davidson a coeducational institution; and 2) to increase the size of the student body to 1200. Mr. Cornell suggests that while increasing the student body, we only insignificantly increase the faculty, thus decreasing the faculty-student ratio to 1:17. This destroys one of the greatest attractions of Davidson. There are only two reasons for an increase in the size of the student body: more tuition money and a tradition of 1000 men. The first has been shown to be more than offset by increased costs. As for tradition, I ask the trustees, is the Davidson tradition 1000 men, or high academic quality? Given coeducation, these two traditions appear to be mutually exclusive. A friend of mine has defined the trustees as a group of men who reason in favor of some strange form of intuition... In a community of 1200 students, I am afraid I shall have to agree with him.

Coty Pinckney ‘77
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I understand that at the Faculty Meeting on April 16, 1974, a question was raised about the validity of a statistic quoted in THE DAVIDSONIAN...of April 12, 1974. This statistic was in a feature story written by Bruce Corser, a stitution. First, I want to emphasize I did not ask or encourage Mr. Corser to write this article. Secondly, no one from the faculty, staff, or student body has dropped by to see me or called me by phone to question the validity of any of my remarks. It was unfortunate that the question was raised in a faculty meeting where I could not explain or clarify my remarks. In my CMC speech, I tried to point out the pros and cons of “going co-ed” as they might relate to finance, development, curriculum, and admissions. I was asked to cover these four areas by my CMC host. I concentrated on finance and development, since I have expertise in these areas. In my CMC remarks, I cautioned that if sufficient funding were not available when we at Davidson arrived at 1500 students, there might be several casualties. These could include: (1) dropping entire academic programs, (2) dropping courses which had low enrollment and were not vital to the liberal arts core; (3) increasing the student-faculty ratio to say 1:17; or (4) a combination of these four courses of action. I did not say these would happen—rather that they could happen. I don’t feel this was an irresponsible statement given the condition of many private institutions since “the financial squeeze” began in the late 1960s. What I specifically emphasized was that the CMC trustees especially had to be alerted to the possible issues which may come with “student expansion” (whether it be male or female) and that trustees, alumni, students, friends, faculty, and staff had to be keenly aware of the need to generate more income from the college's endowment. The latter can be achieved in two ways: (1) internal growth of the endowment, especially in the equities portion; (2) addition of new money to the endowment. Often quick quotes are misleading, and the reader or listener may be inclined to interpret out of context. If any of you have any further questions on my CMC remarks, drop around or call me. I'll try to clarify sentences, phrases, or ambiguities.
—C. David Cornell
Davidson College

Letter To The Editor

When you walk into the college library and see a student about to jump from a third-floor ledge to a concrete walk (as I have seen), it makes a certain type of pressure necessary. I am not suggesting that students should be encouraged to regard their studies flippantly. At the same time, the passing or failing of Comprehensives or courses should not be established as a determinant of life or death importance. And unfortunately, I think that some members of this community regard matters in exactly that light. Comprehensives are over for me. The sense of relief is terrific. I must admit that much of the pressure which I felt in preparing for and taking comprehensives was self-inflicted. But it is important to re-emphasize the fact that most Davidson students value their education. We are willing to “go the extra mile” if the goal is worthwhile. The application of intense pressure is really not necessary to achieve the desired result from most students. The application of that pressure may sooner or later have results that cannot be partied away the night after the tests.

LETTERS

THE DAVIDSONIAN solicits letters on any subject from our readers. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length and to make corrections in spelling and grammar. All letters must be signed.

Stopher Clarifies His Pre-Law Positions

To the Editor:

It is with regret that I find it necessary to write in reference to Mr. John Cook's article entitled “Career Counseling Criticized” (April 19 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN), particularly the section in which “Bob Stouffer” was quoted. While I have become accustomed to having my name misspelled, I am afraid that I shall never become accustomed to being misquoted. The fact that Mr. Cook was so inaccurate that he missed the sense of what was said is disturbing. The fact that he further presumed to expose his erroneous impressions under the guise of a direct and exact quotation is indefensible. I wish to take this opportunity to set the record straight. As I told Mr. Cook, I have had no reason whatsoever to criticize the Davidson pre-law program since I was admitted to the law school that was my first choice. I would remind him that accuracy is likewise a virtue in writing, especially in journalism. I wish to apologize to all the readers for this misunderstanding.

Robert E. Stopher ’74
Davidson College