Two December 20, 1974 The Davidsonian

Munce To Succeed Butner As Highest SGA Official

By MARK GERGEN
Staff Writer

John Munce was elected SGA president, and 12 other positions were filled in the Tuesday SGA elections and Wednesday run-offs
according to SGA Chancellor Brad Swalwell. Munce won the presidency by a margin of 111 votes over contender Rick Roylance
with 725 votes cast. “My immediate concerns will be to conclude work on the bill of rights and student by-laws,
to organize the SGA, fill positions on the SEC, organize the Senate working committees, meet with the Y president, Union
Board president, and DAVIDSONIAN editor, and to inaugurate new programs, setting the tone for the whole new year,” said Munce.

Lynne Keener won the race for SGA vice-president by an 18 vote margin over Marc Menchell in the Wednesday run-offs.
“I look upon the real function of the vice-president as chairing the Residence Hall Council,” said Keener. “The main problem
with the Residence Hall Council is that the student body doesn’t understand it’s there to help them,” Keener added. She
indicated that major immediate concerns included the dormitory mailboxes and identification of campus dogs.

Randy Hunter was elected Quips and Cranks editor by a wide margin. Hunter indicated that more special effects and different
forms of photography would be used in the 75-76 yearbook than have been used in past years. “The 73-74 effort
wasn’t a very exciting annual, but it wasn’t that bad; it just wasn’t impressive,” Hunter added. “George may have gone
a little overboard with his critical philosophy. It may have been too much of his personal opinion; what we need
is more of an overview of the year.” Concerning censorship, Hunter said, “What Jeff did was a mistake, but it
was a mistake for the administration to censor it, even though it was in their power.”

Sue Cunningham was elected YMWCA president with 64% of the vote. She stressed the need for more student volunteers in
Y programs. “I’m hoping to initiate new programs including the starting of a food co-op for the churches in this
area. What we need are students to do the footwork to set it up,” said Cunningham.

Recently elected Union Board President Richard Wassen indicated his plans to ensure quick construction of the new union while maintaining
a good program in the present union facility. “We will try to present a well-rounded program,” said Wassen. “We need
increased activities and I feel that increased facility will lead to increased programming.” Wassen praised Co-Curricular Chairman Pat Hudson and
Social Council Chairman Marc Menchel for their efforts.

Bob Earnest and John McArthur were elected Wildcat Handbook editors, tallying 95 votes more than did their opposition, John Swanson
and Bob Westmoreland. “Our major goal is going to be to get the Wildcat Handbook to the class of ’79
this summer, before they arrive at Davidson,” said McArthur.

The SGA President: John Munce
Vice-President: Lynne Keener
Treasurer: John Jones
Secretary: David Dickey

The Union
President: Richard Wassen

Wildcat Handbook Editors
Bob Earnest and John McArthur

Quips & Cranks Editor
Randy Hunter

YM/WCA
President: Sue Cunningham
Vice-President: Karl Goodhouse

Social Council
Marc Menchel

Co-Curricular Council
Pat Hudson

Freshman Advisors
Bill Reed and Ed Willingham

Defense Advisor
Dal Ferbert and Richie Williams

Hearing Committee
Rick McKenzie, Bobby Mendenhall, Jeff Neikirk

Miscellany Editors
Ernest Glenn and Wayne Gulledge

Martin Review Board
Forrest Flanken and Pete Hitchkiss

’76
Terry Hummell, Peyton Marshall, Katherine Morton, Coty Pinckney

’77
Rees Jenkins, David Kelly, Sandy

’78
Sandy

(Photo by Venable)
SGA President-Elect John MunceMare Menchel for their enthusiasm and new ideas, and he further expressed his desire to begin work
immediately. Menchel, defeating Cary Herin by a 97-vote margin, said, “The major problem is that the Union doesn’t plan far
enough into the future.” Menchel indicated his desire to bring back professional entertainment for small audiences and to renounce the
Newly-Appointed Williams Fears Double-Digit Inflation

By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

Craven E. Williams will assume the post of Vice President for Development at Davidson College by January 1, 1975. He
is currently Vice-President of Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Va. In a telephone interview, though cautioning that all his comments
were “conjectural and tentative,” Williams said that he may slightly reorganize the Development Office to include a department concerned with
corporations and foundations which have given or might give to the College. He feels that a program to elicit corporate
support for Davidson should be a major concern of the Development Office.

Williams does not feel that the Development Office’s efforts should be looked upon as an isolated facet of the College.
He sees the office as an integral part of the community, concerned with “development of understanding, participation, and support for
the college by its various constituents.”

Former Vice-President for Development C. David Cornell made several gloomy predictions about Davidson’s financial security over the next few fiscal
years when he left the college. These included a warning that the endowment must be increased or expenses cut if
Davidson is to survive another two years without “being down by as much as $1,000,000 in ‘76.” Williams concurred for
the most part with Cornell, saying that, as most of the major economists predict “a third consecutive year of double-digit
inflation,” he saw no indication that Davidson will not need substantially greater funds. “If Davidson is to continue offering the
program it has and the financial aid and the faculty salaries it has, it will need to anticipate a 15
percent increase in operating funds,” he said, adding that this only applied to fiscal year 1975 and that the inflationary
trend boded no better times further on.

Williams feels, like Cornell, that an increased endowment-building program will provide an answer, along with increased gifts. The trustees have
frozen tuition for the next two years and he would like to see “fee increases kept to a minimum” so
an increased tuition probably will not result. Nevertheless, the Office of Development must produce 15 percent more money this fiscal
year. If Williams finds that his office cannot raise the funds, he will look to cut administration expenditures first.

Williams has been at Mary Baldwin College for seven years. He accepted his post at Davidson because he felt the
position would be enjoyable and worthwhile. He indicated that he looks forward to working with a school which “has contributed
to higher education” and has “the sense of purpose and close, unembarrassed ties with the church that Davidson does.”

Davidsonian Executive Editor: MARK DEATON
Managing Editors: LARRY MIMMS, MARK WILENSKY
Sports Editor: CHUCK KENNON
Editorial Consultants: DON BENSON, ERIC WALKER
Associate Editors: CHUCK HARMON, JOE MCMILLAN, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP
Operations Manager: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Managing Editors: MATTHEW COVINGTON, STEVE JOHNSON
Assistant Sports Editor: GLENN BALLARD
Senior News Editors: BRUCE CORSER, ANDY LAMAS, RICHARD ROMEYN, CHARLIE SHEPHERD, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Cartoonists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL
Advertising Manager: JEFF SICH
Assistant Business Manager: DAVID TRADER
Contributing Editors: JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, VINCE RABIL
Circulation: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Photography Editor: LEON VENABLE
Typist: CAMILLE CATINET

Contributors this week: Bill Barnes, Lillian Gascoigne, Mark Gergen, Bill Kennon, Bob Milks, Anne Pelfrey, Mike Russ, Mark Scandling, and
Charlie Slagle.

Published weekly at Davidson, N.C. by students of Davidson College during the school year. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN. Subscription rate: $6.00.
