Che Davidsonian

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” - Marshall McLuhan

MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief
PHILLIP STIKES, Business Manager

OCTOBER 25, 1974

The Quips Don’t Crank

In the Bill of Rights of the Davidson Student Government Association By-Laws, which were recently passed by students in a
campus-wide referendum, freedom of the student press is guaranteed to Davidson College students. These By-Laws have yet to be approved
by the Board of Trustees.

The recent decision by the administration of Davidson College to suspend publication of the 1974 Quips raises the question of
what rights may be withheld from citizens of the United States while attending a private college such as Davidson. The
State of North Carolina, in granting a charter to Davidson College, recognizes that education is a public function, even when
performed by a private institution.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. made this point in a speech delivered to the Board of Governors and University
Trustees in Chapel Hill, North Carolina on September 19, 1974. There he said, “...the distinction between private and public is
valid only in reference to control, not at all in reference to function. Functionally, the colleges and universities of both
groups are public institutions. The private institutions are chartered by the State of North Carolina to serve the public. They
have no other function. Laws which were recently passed by the State of North Carolina have not only the right
but the duty to hold these institutions accountable, and to revoke their charters at any time, they cease to carry
out the public function which has been entrusted to them.”

In the case of Belk vs. the Chancellor of Washington University in 1970, a federal judge wrote the following: “Education
is a public function... Hence the private university's performance of a public function could render its actions subject to Constitutional
restraints.”

As we feel that the college press is a vital part of the educational process at Davidson College as an
avenue for expression of information and ideas, we feel that student journalists must be guaranteed the protection and rights of
the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. In censoring the yearbook, denying students of Davidson College their
constitutional rights of freedom of expression, we feel that the administration of Davidson College is violating the trust of the
State of North Carolina as a chartered private institution performing a public service.

Laundry Whitewash

It is the opinion of College Business Manager Robert A. Currie, Comptroller Robert W. Davidson, and Laundry Manager Frances Beaver
that the college laundry cannot be operated on a voluntary basis. We encourage the administration to study further the question
of compulsory laundry fees and services, investigate the possibilities of running the laundry on a voluntary basis, and publish answers
based on a bit more than opinions and guesses.

Last year’s Student Government Association referendum indicated that 92 percent of all students voting favored some use of the laundry.
Beaver indicated that the laundry is busier now than ever before, and an 8 to 10 percent decrease in the
workload might come as a blessing. Further, 90 percent of the student body should be able to support the operation
financially, particularly if the nine employees who next year will be past retirement age were allowed to retire.

Certainly, the students who do not wish to pay the $130 per year fee to depend on someone else to
wash their clothes would enjoy considerable savings. We agree with Beaver that “students are getting their money’s worth” for the
services provided. However, many students would be able to save in the neighborhood of $100 next year by doing their
own clothes in coin-operated machines—which are making rather than losing money for the college.

We quite frankly resent Beaver’s assertion that the honor code will not work in regard to the college laundry. We
simply don’t notice large numbers of students here leaving due to honor code violations, and we have no reason to
suspect that they are going to be willing to risk expulsion by using their roommates’ laundry numbers. The attitude is
disturbing to those who believe the honor code works because of faith at every level, not because of fear instilled
through paranoia.

All along students have been reassured that the college’s actions have been in their best interests; the laundry has been
stressed in its capacity as a student service. We cannot ignore the irony in the phenomenon of a “compulsory service.”
We feel that the alternative of an optional laundry offers promise for students, the laundry, and the college. We would
be particularly distressed should this option be rejected after irresponsible...Investigation subject to mere "feeling" and "opinion."

Chuck Harmon

Hattie's Provides Leisurely Escape

If it’s Thursday night, then this must be Hattie’s. It is a curious experience, really. But somehow, when I am
here I feel a strange, inexplicable, almost metaphysical unity among all of us. Now it is entirely possible that this
feeling of closeness is in some degree due to the fact that the music is so loud and the smoke
so thick that one practically has to get intimate to be able to see and hear his partner in dialogue.
And of course, some credit must be given to the physiological effects of all the smoke and all the liquid
refreshment. There is a relaxed atmosphere that really begins to approximate the friendly small college spirit that the admissions office
likes to boast about.

Still, I think that Hattie’s performs a singularly unique function in making life here bearable week after week. The observation
is often made that Davidson College can and will really destroy. This is usually attributed to some mysterious combination of
grade pressures, deadlines, competition, and the peculiar social structure that produces in the average Davidson student (if there exists such
a creature—perhaps at some later date someone will attempt to define the "Davidson mind-set"), an inner pressure from which he
must find release or be psychologically destroyed. Now I’m not foolish enough to suggest that getting drunk several times weekly
is either a healthy release or the only thing holding some of us together. But I do believe that anyone
interested in the psychological well-being of students here should take a look at the spirit of community offered here.

Something in the Davidson continually causes a certain amount of "hitting the books." Consequently, it’s peculiarly satisfying to see pre-laws,
pre-preachers, and pre-whatevers enjoying a night of just taking it easy. On any given night, one can sit and share
a pitcher with a Phi Beta Kappa, a jock, or any of the "campus elite." There is an indescribable feeling
of pleasure at standing in line for relief, or playing pinball or pool with people that you rarely see otherwise.
It is, for example, the only place that one can view the entire staff of THE DAVIDSONIAN gathered together. Competition
and grade pressure seem to suddenly vanish when you see the very people that you always envied or resented in
classes drunker than you are. Inhibitions and academic restraints also seem to disappear.

It is, of course, a known fact that alcohol loosens the tongue, and it is this marvelous phenomenon that produces
new dimensions in topical discussions. One's facility in handling such delicate topics is greatly enhanced by the freedom to express
one’s true opinions that the next day might be regretted.

While I’m on the subject, I’d like to get in a word to any members of the administration or to
any trustees who may be in the audience. It sure would be nice to get a beer license for the
union so that we could have a real Rathskeller and a genuine place for students to gather. It’ll never replace
Hattie’s, but it sure would help keep a lot of drunken drivers off of Main Street.

Maybe what I am really saying is that I am at that stage in life when I can really appreciate
the value of, and the need for, a couple of stiff drinks, genuine fellowship with my comrades, and a chance
to relax. And maybe it will seem to some that what I am advocating is an attitude which may be
responsible for the rise in the rate of alcoholism in this country and our generation in particular. And maybe no
one else appreciates the warm communion experience of a place like Hattie’s on a night like this. But all I
can say is “blest be the Schlitz that binds...”

Stuart Expresses Grief Over ‘Sensationalism’

To the Editor:

I was very disappointed that THE DAVIDSONIAN donated a full page to Steve Canterbury, enabling him to show us what
an intellectual heavy he is. His "cheap imitation" poetry seems to be an attempt at sensationalism—Look at me, I’m in
college and can tell the administration where to go and not get five demerits.

I may be overly resentful of Canterbury’s harsh cynicism because I selfishly enjoy what Davidson offers to me, but his
criticisms are unnecessarily harsh and his phrasing will only serve to alienate rather than encourage constructive aid. Lastly, he says
he hasn’t told us what Davidson did to his roommate; I can’t help but wonder what a year of life
with Steve did to the poor guy.

Emelia Stuart ’76
Davidson College
