Governance Report Released

By MICHAEL TANNER
Editor-in-Chief

The document found on pages four through seven of this issue is a preliminary draft of a college constitution that
was released yesterday by the Trustee Governance Committee. The constitution is known as Model III. On March 21, Chairman of
the Trustee Governance Committee Walter Lingle will be on campus to meet with administrators, faculty members, and students to present
the constitution to these groups and receive their comments and criticism. Lingle will meet with the faculty at 4 p.m.
and with students at 7:30 p.m. Both meetings will take place in the Baxter Davidson room in Chambers. All students
are invited to attend the 7:30 p.m. meeting. Lingle will also meet with department heads of the administration on March
21.

At these meetings, Lingle will first present the constitution in its entirety and give a brief synopsis of the rationale
behind the form and content of Model III. According to Lingle, the meetings will “expedite the process of acceptance.” It
will allow the Governance Committee to resolve any problems coming out of the meetings before the Spring meeting of the
Board of Trustees. Assistant to the President Rich Wilson indicated that while the Governance Committee would like to present Model
III to the board at its Spring meeting in May, that time is by no means a deadline. “The Committee
will take

Aautisottan Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036 March 15, 1974 Vol. LXIII, No. Eighteen

Stalwart Streakers Startle Spectators

By TOM AINSWORTH
Senior News Editor

Since the University of St. Louis rated North Carolina the number one star state in streaking last week, Davidson has
established itself in that illustrious firmament. Though not very strong in numbers, lacking in continuity, this campus can be proud
of the fact that it has the most polite streakers in the State, possibly the country. In proof of this
statement, witness the Wednesday, March 6, 8:30 p.m. streak involving a mere 15 men, mostly from Cannon III. Not only
did the more modest members of the group hide themselves from the public eye by use of ski masks, dark
glasses, and the like, but it was the only streak on record to have the group involved and the route
of procedure previously announced so that the more puritan elements of the community would be spared any possible traumatic experience.

But let us agree that it takes a rather special personality to throw off his/her clothes and do a good
impersonation of the four-minute mile in abject fear. One of these rare souls, Cannon III hall counselor Mark Connors, confided
that he felt a “great deal of apprehension” about the streak. “I didn’t make up my mind to do it
until 10 minutes before it happened,” said Connors. “I don’t know why we did it. It’s just been a recent
fad, and we just wanted to try it out.” Connors confided that it was “the number of people waiting outside”
that finally convinced him to go ahead with the streak: “We didn’t want to disappoint the crowd,” he confessed.

Indeed, the aspect of peer pressure was the one common denominator which seemed to influence the group to the greatest
extent. As one anonymous streaker observed, “they would have given us hell if we hadn’t.” Even though most of the
group confessed that they had done it “just for fun,” all were fairly sure that they wouldn't do it again.
“I was scared to death,” said Connors. “I just did it once for the thrill of the thing.” “It would
have been anticlimactic to streak again,” said another unidentified streaker. “It was fun to do at that time, but not
anymore.”

As far as psyching oneself up for a streak, various methods are employed. The group explained that they had decided
to streak at dinner that night and had spent the rest of the time on a “massive campaign for nudie
freaks.” “About 7:30 we began to really talk it up to each other, and got mad at all the people
who didn’t show up. If everyone who had promised to be there showed up, we would have had around 70
people,” an organizer revealed. “Ten minutes before we were supposed to streak, we looked out and saw the crowd and
that really sparked us. Then when (Steve) Morris came up on the hall already nude, that did it!”

The group said that they had previously announced their activity “because we didn’t want to offend anyone.” They must have
done a good job of advertising because one of the streaker organizers confided that aWoman's Consciousness-raising group from the town
of Davidson had called up the freshman hall prior to the steak and had asked them when it was to
take place. “We told them the time and then asked them what they thought of the idea. They answered that
they thought it was great!” Opinions are mixed over the newest craze on campus, but most of the negative reaction
seems to come from men rather than women. “Yeah, I told my folks about it,” said Connors. “My mother said
she thought that it was ‘a lot better than fighting’ but my father said ‘don’t you think the administration is
going to have something to say, young man?’” Another streaker said that his mother was more concerned over him catching
a cold than anything else. No matter what the reason, however, streaking is still a violation of the law -
‘indecent exposure’ to be precise according to Police Lieutenant G. Hughes of the Davidson police department. “It’s a misdemeanor which
could carry a penalty of up to six months in jail and a fine, but the sentence is usually suspended
if a subject is caught,” said Hughes. “If they streak out near the main street, where the townspeople can see
them, we're (See STREAKER, page 16) as long as it needs to complete the document. Of course they’d like to
have it ready by May, but they won't allow themselves to be rushed,” he said. One problem regarding the constitution’s
completion is Article 10, the section concerning academic freedom, faculty employment and evaluation. This section is currently blank pending action
by the Faculty Executive and Trustee Executive Committees. At present, a draft for this article is under consideration by the
administration. An agreement stands among the members of the Governance Committee that Model III will not go before the board
until the Article 10 has been completed. Generally, Model III seeks to define the various constituencies of the college and
outlines the channels of responsibility which lead from the trustees. It is essentially a combination of two earlier models: the
first a campus assembly and the second a bicameral system. With the exception of educational policy, the system consists of
five advisory councils (Fiscal-Personnel-Development, Admissions, Intercollegiate Athletics, Student Conduct, and Campus Life) which meet periodically to advise the president on
policy in each of these areas.

26 Hall Counselors Selected, In Hair-Splitting Decision

By MARK DEATON Managing Editor

Dean of Students Will H. Terry announced the selection of 26 principals and six alternates to serve as freshman hall
counselors for the 1974-75 academic year Tuesday. Selected to serve the group of male freshmen are Peter Clark, Alan Duncan,
Doug Ey, Tom Gospill, Jeff Heslop, Bob Hoag, Paul Japp, Bill Lloyd, Robert Mendenhall, John Mitchell, Bill Reed, Eppa Rixey,
William L. Smith, Mike Stick, John Tatum, Dan Thorpe, Bill Vaughn, Ed Willingham. Alternates include: Ken Bumgarner, Peter Hotchkiss, Gary
Stewart, Joel Tew and Scott Tinnon. The following eight were selected as the hall counselors for the freshman coeds: Dodie
Austin, Norma Brewer, Elizabeth Corbin, Sue Johnston, Alice Rogers, Martha Royster, Laurie Schnackenberg and Emelia Stuart, with Patsy Arnold and
Ann Pelfrey as alternates. “I think we've got a well-balanced group of hall counselors. We've got a very conscientious group
of people,” said Terry. The Hall Counselor Selection Committee consisted of Terry, Assistant Dean of Students Diane Stone, Director of
Housing Scotty Nicholls, Freshman Advisors Mark Connors and Gus Succup, and two other present hall counselors, Patsy Arnold and Rick
Love. Selections were based on written applications, a 10-minute interview, and recommendations from all present and past hall counselors now
students at Davidson. “It was a hard decision because there were a lot of people who are very qualified,” said
Succop. “We played the game of splitting hairs, and it wasn’t too much fun.” “I think the group we came
up with represents a wide spread of interests of the Davidson campus. Hopefully we haven't included the wrong people or
excluded the right choices,” said Succop. “I’m very happy with the hall counselor selection,” said Terry, “but I’m glad it’s
over. When you have 74 Davidson College students and you have to pick 24, you’ve got a problem on your
hands. I believe that the freshmen and the college is better served by the large number of people who want
to be hall counselors, but it surely makes the selection tough.” The group of hall counselors will attend a retreat
at Camp Greer the first weekend of April. “There we hope to build a group identity and instill in (See
COUNSELORS, page 16)
