Eight Expectations for an outstanding soccer season are running high this year. The Cats face North Carolina there on Saturday.

FANCY FOOTWORK
(Gil fests by Goodman)

Track Radiates Charm In New Rubber Asphalt
By CHUCK KENNON
Sports Editor

A dream of more than 40 years has come true with the completion of the new track circling the football field. Sterling Martin, head coach of the Track and Cross Country team, called it "one of the best small college facilities" in the nation. Martin explained the arduous funding process that resulted in the creation of the track. Construction was during the past spring and summer.

"Three graduates who ran for Coach A. Heath Whittle in the late fifties and early sixties got together and initiated a fund drive for a new track here. Dr. Angus McBride, Dr. Bill Eckbert, and Larry McNeal contacted everyone who had run for Whittle in his forty years at Davidson. The object was to get money from sources other than the normal athletic funds channels," Martin said.

He continued, "The fund drive lasted about five years and had gotten bogged down after obtaining around $6,000. Then Don Winston, of Development, helped get the money needed to finish the drive and build the track."

The actual cost of the track is hard to determine, Martin said, because some of the work was done by laborers working on the Little Library at the same time. The estimated cost of the track was "in the neighborhood" of $35,000, he added.

The surface of the track is all-weather Uni-Royal rubberized asphalt. It has an asphalt base with a one-inch thick coating of rubber mixed with asphalt. The combination is noted for its resilience and durability. Martin feels that this is the "best surface available next to a $150,000 Tartan track." The track has a tested life of ten years.

Martin stressed the fact that while the track is all-weather, it is not "all-purpose." "The only drawback with this track is that since it is so 'soft' any pressure concentrated in a small area will damage it. So no one can ride a bike, drive a car, or use it with football cleats," he said. Martin added that, "the track is designed for running only, and everyone is welcome to use it for that." He noted that student jogging has greatly increased.

Martin is pleased with the flexibility that the new track adds to the running program. Workouts can be conducted in rain, and the track can accommodate a full schedule of track and field events from the pole-vault to the steeplechase. Its six lanes are adequate for current relays planned at Davidson, he believes.

Martin hopes that the improved track facilities will aid in influencing prospective runners to come to Davidson. "Since we don’t offer any scholarships in minor sports we should offer the best facilities possible," he concluded.best facilities. I think we’ve done that here,” Martin claimed. The drainage in the old cinder track had been a considerable problem, Martin said. But he hopes that is a crisis of the past. “Director of the Physical Plant, Grover Meetze, designed a new drainage system on the inside of the field. They were putting in a new automatic sprinkling system for the football field and so we had them install the pipes while the field was still torn up. This has really improved the drainage, and the only place where we still have a problem is at the far end of the track, since the field falls about two feet from the gym side to the far side.”

Soccer Team Holds Strong 2-2 Record For Current Season

felt that first game jitters might have been a factor, but that they definitely gave Madison a fight. Davidson then returned home to meet Pfeiffer College, a team that they had just managed to tie last year. In the early minutes of the game, Joe Duncan let go a blast from about 60 feet that beat the Pfeiffer goalie easily. Davidson continued to keep the pressure on, but couldn’t score until midway through the first half, when Jack Linard got a head-in on a center from the right wing. At this point, Pfeiffer’s defeat was evident. The Cats continued their relentless attack with Tom Blackwood and Duncan connecting on long shots. Davidson finished off its first half scoring when Bob Gettys headed in a corner kick that the goalie had blocked. By the time the buzzer sounded, the score was Davidson 5 - Pfeiffer 0. Just how totally Davidson dominated Pfeiffer was evidenced by the fact that the visitors managed to get into Cat territory only a half dozen times, and could never mount a serious attack. In the second half, Coach Chip Stone benched all of his starters and the result was three Pfeiffer goals. “They would never have come close to scoring against our starters,” said Stone.

Last Friday and Saturday, Davidson played in the Campbell Classic. In the opener, the Cats scored an impressive 4-1 win over Pembroke College. Scoring for Davidson was Duncan, Blackwood, Gordon Manor, and freshman Dave Patten. In the finals, the team went against Campbell College, ranked fifth nationally in the NAIA. Davidson took a hard-luck loss, 3-2. Both goals were scored by the slick ball-handling of Tom Blackwood. “We should have beaten them,” said Stone. “Blackwood hit the post and we missed a few real good opportunities.”

PIEDMONT ANNOUNCES STUDENT MASTER CHARGE PROGRAM

Piedmont Bank welcomes student applications for the most widely honored bank credit card. See Russell Knox, Steve Shoe, or Jim Holloman. Master Charge lets you say “Charge it” at local and worldwide stores, airlines, motels, and many other establishments. It’s good identification when paying for purchases by check.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
MEMBER FDIC
Piedmont Insurance Agency, Inc.
137 N. MAIN ST.
DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036