Honesty, Despite Dis

The honest air that surrounds the new head coach follows him as he hits the long and weary trail that leads to the superstars of tomorrow.

There were two other important things that Brickels wanted to say about recruiting. The first deals with the standards that are present at Davidson, which have been referred to on numerous occasions as disadvantageous to the recruiting efforts of coaches.

“Actually the standards are a help to the program and it benefits from them,” stated Brickels. “We can sell the school because it is a good, solid academic institution. There are many smart basketball players and we just have to get them.”

The second thing that Brickels is concerned about with regard to the recruiting predicament is the anxiety that most people have over the Cats’ lack of a “big man.”

“I really do not believe that bit about us being a great team if we just had a big man,” contended the new head coach. “People are always saying they are waiting for us to sign the big man.

“We could have signed a couple of big men already. But they would not have been the players that would have helped us. They were not that good and people would have gotten on us for signing them just for their height. We have got some good players here. But I do not think that if we had had Tommy Burleson playing for us that we would have been national champs. I just do not think that the ‘big man’ issue is that crucial.”

A coach's directness and honesty with people is definitely an integral part of the business. That aspect which Brickels and his staff possess could be one of the key factors in how well the team fares, both in recruiting and in actual game performances.

Brickels concluded with the reminder that this is not the most important year for recruiting; not nearly as much as the coming year will be. But he is still confident that some key people will still sign at Davidson.

Brickels has the confidence in both his players and his assistants that they can get the job done. When the people that have to do the job believe in themselves, then the job generally gets done, and usually done well.

And somehow, with his attitude and those of his assistants being as they are, it is just hard to believe that they will not be able to work the miracles that seem to become necessary as the days pass by.

The Davidsonian
May 3, 1974 Nine

Managing Editor

“I think we have had an excellent recruiting year,” admitted head tennis coach Jeff Frank. “When you consider all the things that are involved we have really done well.”

It certainly has been a good year for the Cats, as they have signed four of the top six players they were after, and still have a fifth hanging on the line.

The first prospect that Frank lured to Davidson was Chip Bondurant, a top player from Winter Park, Fla.

Being one of the highly rated singles players in the state made him a top prospect for many schools. Frank was especially pleased that he chose Davidson.

“It is sometimes just a miracle that he, and many others, chose Davidson. I think he will grow into a better player also when he gets here.”

Stuart Boswell is the third in the list that Frank has acquired this recruiting season.

Boswell was one of the top three junior players in the metropolitan area of Washington, D.C., which is known for being a tough region as far as tennis competition is concerned.

“He is a super strong player and we are certainly delighted that he has chosen to come to Davidson to play tennis,” Frank pointed out. “He turned down some big scholarship offers from Tulane and Vanderbilt to come, so we really think highly of him.”

Boswell is about six feet tall.

Frank is excited about having an established doubles team come to Davidson.

“They could contribute substantially to our program next year. When he was primarily based on his performance in a match with Ben McKoron, who was the top 16-year-old in the nation.”

These four players were among the top six that Frank was concentrating on getting to come to Davidson. There are two others, one of which is going to Virginia (at last report). The other is deciding between here and Princeton.

There are several other tennis players that are coming to Davidson next fall, each of whom Frank will look at long and hard when he decides on his squad for the coming year. One of them is Mike Barnhill, the number one player for Reynolds High School in Winston-Salem. Appalachian State University has also been trying to get him to become a Cat netter. He is a good prospect from Wilmington, Del. Clayton Rogers rounds out the list. He hailed from Massachusetts.

Frank knew that this had to be a good year for recruiting, and it certainly has been.