IMAC History
By CAPTAIN AMERICA and BUCKY, with THE BEACHBALL and THE MAD THINKER

Once again there is a gathering of facts from which to choose, for us to expound on. IMAC had about
18 games this past week with the headliner being the first all-female flickerball game on the hitherto celibate lower soccer
field, between the Zoo and the Sty. Fifty slightly horny fans crowded the sidelines hoping for a torn jersey or
a heavy tog. Both teams played well on defense, especially as their squads were aided by a basic inability of
most of the participants to catch the ball, or throw it much the less. In the Davidson tradition, the game
was a fine defensive struggle. Oh, yeah, the Zoo did win the game 6-0 as Laurie Dunn scampered around right
end for a five-yard TD and added a pike that would have made Elmo Wright proud. Maybe next year Sty,
but both teams are equally matched and played hard in a fine contest.

SAE #3 showed that the Coach and Six should stay on the tennis courts as they picked up an 18-6
triumph that saw no team score an extra point. The Chocolate Speedway did not show for their first game with
the Cleveland Indians which only means they are worthless, as people. Don’t join the damn league if you’re not going
to show up or Bowie will slap your buns.

In a tune-up for the big match Tuesday the 8th, Watts 3&4, the Sty, lost to Xmanon 26-7 as the
boys from Noname controlled the game all over the INVISIBLE TACKLE field. Rounding out a week ago Tuesday’s action, the
Heavy Metal kids nee Clap hurt aging powerhouse Delt #1, 53-20, led by Ronnie Powell. Krionce #1, man and John
Tatums led the defense to a win. Next Monday the Kids followed up with an exciting 45-40 win over the
KAs on the last play of the game as Bill (Roids) Lloyd led a comeback charge for the Kids.

We remember when the Pikas were great. Now they have reached the lowest of lows as they are worse than
the ATOs. The ATOs clipped Pika 21-10 last Wed, led by the Goon and John Stanfield in a historic win
for the usually hapless zeroes. Two freshman winners emerged also even though C-IV was whipped by the Recorded Gozinyas 30-6,
as the experience and drunken stupor.

(Photo by Kennon)
Intercepting a Sty pass, a Zoo player dashes blindly downfield. The chase ended when enraged Sty quarterback Jane Perins swatted
the runner to the ground.

Cat Ruggers Down Wofford, Drop Duke Double-Header
By BILL KELLY, Staff Writer

The Davidson Rugby Club won the first home game against Wofford, Sunday Sept. The speedy running of Davidson’s Chris Young
and Peter Alford kept Wofford in constant trouble. The first half of the game was spent mostly near the Wofford
5-yard line but a surprising defense and penalties kept Davidson from putting the game out of reach. However, Pete Alford
found a hole in the Wofford backfield and used the opportunity to score. Jeff Heslop made the conversion kick to
make the score 6-0. Wofford made a rally when they made a three-point penalty kick in Davidson. The rally didn’t
last long before Davidson’s Victor MacMillan scored a try on a good run. Unfortunately for the Cats, the score was
called back because of a penalty. The momentum was on Davidson’s side, though, as Chris Young dashed across the goal
near the end of the first half. With the conversion kick by Heslop, the score at half-time was 12-3.

The second half started in Wofford’s favor as Davidson...was caught by surprise during a 23-yard drop kick. A Wofford back
made a long run and scored. The kick was good, and the score was 12-9. Davidson broke the game open
soon after when wing forward Jeff Heslop broke through for a try. The Davidson scrum continued with very aggressive play
led by Jeff Morrow. Morrow routed the Wofford team as he scored three tries. The conversion kicks were good, two
of which were made by Fred Smith. The game ended with a last moment rally by Wofford with a try,
but to no avail as Davidson won 36-15.

Last Sunday, Oct. 6, was a double header against Duke University here at Davidson. The powerful Duke Blue Devils gave
the Wildcat ruggers a tough time. Both teams played equally well in the first half of the opener. A Duke
back, after having the ball in their own territory, broke loose on a long run and advanced the ball to
the Davidson 10 before he was stopped. Despite a tough defensive effort by Davidson, Duke scored soon after. The conversion
kick was good, making the score 6-0 in Duke's favor. Before the half ended, Davidson’s Henry Barber took advantage of
a penalty again—

CATS, Page 12

UP IN ARMS (Photo by Kennon) An unidentified Sty wide receiver nimbly snatches the ball from thin air as Zoo
defender Carol Yeomans helplessly watches. The power of the Gozinyas was too much for the sober frosh. But R-Basement ripped
PDT #2 to make it a bad week for the Delt house. SAE #1 pummeled the poor boys from C-IT
as they will be in the running for the championship all the way again. On Thursday, the Gonads jumped on
new eating house ETC despite Keith (Buck) Buchanan’s early interception run, 30-7. Better work on the O this week. I
Felta Thi coasted over R-I 27-13 as George Ley hit Sid Witz with a couple sleepers for TDs. Meanwhile, the
Zoo was being baptized by SAE #2 in a rout, 45-0. We don’t know where SAE #3 was though as
they got blessed out and gave the Gamms a forfeit win. Nice job, turkeys.

On Monday, SAE #2 won again as they belted R-II 32-13 in a no-contest affair.

Do your parents seem amazingly uneducated about Davidson life? Send them The Davidsonian every week. They'll thank you for it.
Only $6.00.

The Rincon Rangers lost their second in a row as R-III whooped ’em by a 30-6 job. Pax won their
first game of the year as they defeated Capt. Boxwood and his turkeys. Unfortunately, Stevie (Wonder Tongue) Canterbury missed the
game due to a case of V.D. of the mouth. Man, they talk about the bad language in our column?
And the Tuesday scores we have in our hands showed the SPEs putting one to the Chocolate Speedway by a
19-18 score in a close one and Delt 1 showing signs of rejuvenation in a 60-12 romp over R-IV. The
big girl game was the highlight Tuesday. Anyway, C.A. goes out the door to see Bruce Lee, Beachball and Y.B.
are licking their wounds and the old Mad Thinker is busy hatching a few more devious plots. Until next week
we say the A’s in the Series by a 4-2 score and may Bruce Lee dislocate—

Visit our office today—Upstairs at The Union & Piedmont Insurance Agency, Inc. 137 N. MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036
