The Davidsonian March 22, 1974 Eleven

I Felta Thi Seeks Softball Crown

Softball opens up this week despite the prospect of many teams ordering snowshoes to cover predicted ice-infested infields. Volleyball has
also decided to open this week, sporting a new look in a regular league setup instead of the traditional tourney
setup.

Looking ahead to the softball, there were many trades involving big-name teams as D.C.’s amateur Walter Alstons jockeyed for the
pre-season title favorite slot. Young powerhouse I Felta Thi made itself a contender to be reckoned with as they brought
up two potential superstars to hopefully lead them to the crown. Mgr. Mark Firth, (back for his third year along
with assistant Bob “Bo” Canning) has signed judo standout “Dynamite Dea Booth” to help the understaffed corps while also bringing
up the heralded Dave “Wheels” Wolter from the Tucson Toros to lift the parent club. This club could go a
long way, depending on their pitching and defense.

C.A. and Young Buck's favorite for the title, the Queen and 12 Very Nice Guys, are stronger than last year’s
semi-finalist team due to the addition of Nelson and the returning aces such as the Wop, the Beach Ball, and
the infamous Dave “Eat Shit” Bender. This crew has it all except perhaps for defensive consistency. The Wop’s pitching should
offset this question mark with ease, according to ace softball prognosticator Bob “Stormin” Norman.

The Delts will also field two or three good softball teams, but as in most other sports, the talent they
have is not pooled together enough to make a big winner. But with the jocks down there, you cannot count
them out without possible damage to your internal tracks from some of the larger Delts such as Shank or Hank.
Ouch.

Emanon is, as always, the sleeper of the whole thing. Calvin Allen and Larry Ruddell lead a talented bunch of
athletes who somehow give us the right image of intramural participants. They have the best attitude about the game... very
loose.

The Pope and his Court has moved to Portebezia, Spain to set up Vatican II, offering another good softball gathering
to the IMAC. Larry “the Jew of Vatican II” Horowitz, Dr. K., and Mgr. Ron “Fidel” Gibson will lead this
crew to the playoffs through sheer religious faith. (Not a hell of a lot of talent, but a lot of
faith.)

Netters Face Rugged Test
(Continued from page 8)

competing, as far as he was concerned. Allen, playing at his number one singles position, was the lone winner for
the Cats. It was a big victory for the Cat senior, since his opponent was a nationally ranked player.

Frank is not in a state of despair, despite the fact that the Cats have already lost more matches than
they did the entire season last year, and presently sport a losing mark at 2-3. “It really takes five or
six matches in order to get out of the pre-season jitters,” Frank explained. “We seem to be playing tough tennis
right now and we are coming along well.” He mentioned that he was especially pleased with the play of Bressler,
who he said was playing “some super tennis.”

As far as the rest of the season...a lotta talent you see). There are other teams such as the defending
champs Kerwood Derbies led by Doug Eye, who will be along the top also, but to get the right perspective
about IMAC, the viewer must look at some of the more outgoing teams. First, there is CLAP. A farm team
of the defunct Staten Island Fairies, people (the term is used loosely here) such as Ace Kolodo, the Wimp Frank
J. Steifel, and Roids will combine to produce one of the worst aggregations of non-talent ever seen. Hit the ball
to third folks and "Mad Dog" Hendrix is sure to turn it into a triple as long as he does
not suffer any momentary attacks of coordination. If you get the blues, go watch these guys. What an up. ATO
will battle again for the cellar as they lost "the goon" to some obscene statues in Greece, thereby forfeiting their
only semblance of athletic talent. We just hope they make it to the games this year. Is that asking too
much?

Volleyball is on the upswing around here as can be noted after supper or in the afternoon. Games are played
nightly in the gym with approximately 30 teams in the leagues. It is still not too late to get on
a team. Find one with a "tree," if you want to be okay. Officers elected to IMAC were last Monday
and they are freshman Bryan Andrews, freshman Gregg Anders, secretary-treasurer.

Lake Campus Regulations:
- Alcoholic beverages of any type are not allowed in the swimming or boating areas.
- Students or guests under the influence are not allowed in the swimming or boating areas.

These regulations are purely for the safety of those using the lake campus (i.e., to prevent bottles and cans which
would cause injury from getting in the area, and to prevent students or guests from drowning). At this time, measures
are being taken by the college to increase safety and security at the Lake Campus.

Any complaints, threats, or bombs should be addressed to these unsuspecting turkeys as Calvin and "Stormin" Norman have asked us
to say they no longer exist. The senior syndrome strikes as it always does. May you always match and will
somebody please get David Thompson a flying license.

Frank feels that the team is really coming on strong in this area, citing the relative inexperience of all the
players at these positions. He feels that this hindrance is being overcome and that the team is progressively getting stronger
as the number of matches played grows.

Piedmont Appliances
HOWARD & BRAWLEY
664-2138 / 664-2838
MOORESVILLE, N.C. 28115
Used sofa, chairs, end tables, ranges, and refrigerators. Whatever you want, we've got.

ARMY-NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
470 N. Main

& TRUST COMPANY
112 South Main Street
