Twelve April 26, 1974 The Davidsonian

Fotbol Dominates Spring Sports Scene

Call it whatever you like - Futbol, Votebal, Fussbal, Fotbol, Football, or soccer. Davidson Club Soccer, with the aid of
pleasant weekend weather, has been able to produce a good number of competitive matches. The team has fared well in
its six matches, losing only once and tying one game. The club has been in existence almost five years and
holds matches with other soccer clubs in the nearby area (Belmont Abbey, UNCC). The club has been managed for three
years now by Tom Tornee and has tried to uphold its founding philosophy of providing the college and its students
with the opportunity to play and learn soccer in a competitive, yet relaxed atmosphere.

The club tries to encourage people who have even the slightest interest and little to no experience, to come out
and participate on a Sunday afternoon and at the weekday practices. Ideally, the club also functions as a way for
the varsity players to practice during the off-season. So for this season, the club has had a great number of
players turn out for the matches and a pleasantly surprising number of spectators. It is hoped that both of these
aspects of the game will continue to grow. Each Sunday brings out a new hero from the club Cats. In
general, though, the Cats have been under a four-way leadership program. Charlie Slagle has been vital in protecting the goal
thus far. Spearheading a young but tenacious defense is Joe Duncan. At midfield, directing the flow of play is halfback
Tom Blackwood. His performance up and down the field is worth the price of admission itself. Providing the goal-scoring punch
so far has been the Ruggers.

Ramble Past Duke

By ANN BODE Staff Writer

In two recent away matches against two strong, veteran squads, the Davidson Rugby Football Club experienced first a rousing victory
and then bitter defeat. Davidson’s victory came as the Ruggers rolled over Duke 20-4. Eight points of Davidson’s 20 came
during the first half. Pat Cochran was the first D.C. Rugger to touch down the ball in the end zone.
His try came from precision teamwork in the scrum. Duke backs muffed a pass and the ready Davidson forward pack
rushed the loose ball into the end zone where Cochran fell on the ball for four points. Davidson's second try
came as rookie Chris Young, running like a veteran player, received the ball from a line of perfect passes and
powered his way into the end zone. Wildcat Ruggers played an even more powerful second half. Bob Jacobs charged into
touch after receiving the ball from Ted Ellett about ten yards from the end zone.

Monday, April 29
All week Art Exhibit: Stowe Galleries The Student Show
8 p.m. Fine Film: "The Projectionist"
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital: Herb Dimmock

Tuesday, April 30
7 p.m. Speaker: Dick Gregory
8 p.m. Film: "Memories of Underdevelopment"

Wednesday, May 1
7:30 p.m. Drama Workshop: The D.C. Originals

Thursday, May 2
10 a.m. Film: "The Grapes of Wrath"
2 p.m. Catholic Mass
7 p.m. French Play: "Striptease"
8:15 p.m. Concert: Davidson Chamber Winds

Friday, May 3
8 & 10 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium

Saturday, May 4
All day Town Daythe goal. Dave Kittrell increased the value of the try with a two-point kick-after-try. Kittrell added six
more ...Diamonders Sweep (Continued from page 9) hit, but Manire pitched out of the difficulty. Ingold hit a one-out homer
in the third, and the Cats went into the bottom of the fifth down 5-1. After two outs and a
Yearwood walk, a double by Stone, Pomeroy’s single, and a double by Weicker put the Cats ahead 5-4. In the
seventh, three walks, an error by Rodgman, and a wild pitch tied the score. Stevens summoned Frank Folger to put
out the fire with two on and two out, and Folger raced home with the winning run. On Monday, Butch
Dziaduls and Mike Dean drove in two runs apiece as second place Appalachian took the Cats 7-1. The Cats scored
only one on Weicker’s sacrifice fly. The points to the Davidson score after one of his typically amazing runs resulted
in a try for which he again kicked two extra points. According to team captain Ted Ellett, "the Duke game
was Davidson’s best effort all season." Unfortunately, the team could not sustain that effort the next week in a disastrous
game against Virginia Tech. Davidson backs had grave problems in moving the ball down the field. Hokie backs were usually
able to stop any Davidson movement. The one exception came when Richard Hendrix charged through for Davidson's one try. On
Saturday, Davidson Ruggers will face Roanoke and Winston-Salem at Davidson. These games should provide real excitement for the Spring Frolics
weekend. Responsibility of Tornee. He has been fairly consistent all spring, scoring or assisting on goals in every game. Other
notable standouts have been fullbacks Paul Parker and Bill Vaughn; halfbacks Bill Giduz, Bob Grizzard, Gordon Maner, and Billy Hawk;
and strikers Jack Linard and George Yancey. The reserves are star-studded too, with the likes of Maddry Harrell, Tenafly Swanson,
Dave Richardson, and sometimes on a good Sunday even Chip Stone. As for the progression of the club into the
varsity's fall season, many hopes are being entertained by coach and player alike. Some of the team’s members are anxiously
looking forward to the summer when they may get the opportunity to study and play soccer in England and Scotland.
Looking ahead to the fall season, the Cats have their difference. Rugged as the man who wears them, too. Because
Bass builds quality and character into every pair of shoes they make. Fine leathers and careful hand detailing make the
longest and toughest road ahead of them. The Cats tangle with Madison College, UNC-Chapel Hill, Duke, and NC State; all
powerhouses in collegiate soccer. Davidson plays a demanding 16-game schedule which includes participation in the weekend Campbell Classic tournament at
Buies Creek versus three other teams. The Southern Conference Championship game will be on our field if we win our
half of the division. With an impressive slate against competition like this, the Cats could be touted for post-season play.
Davidson will also hold its first summer soccer instructional camp. The first session will be held July 20-26 and the
second session will run from July 28 - Aug. 2. All youngsters high school age and under are eligible to
attend.

MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA

Where the good things are! Cornelius, N. C. 892-8468

First Union National. DAVIDSON
