Sixteen Pages one | Saturday, October 26; 10 a.m. - Country Fair | 11 a.m. Wednesday, October 30 Thursday, October 31 | 2:30 p.m. Greased Pig Chase Baseball Field | 4 p.m. Hayride & Picnic - Lake Campus | 8 p.m. Concert: Kansas Johnston Gym. 10:30 p.m. Concert: Cripple Creek Boys Rathskeller Wildcat Club Meeting: C125 - Pai Soest Field | 4:30 p.m. Square Dance Chambers 8 p.m. Concert: Larry Coryell Johnston Gym 10 p.m. Clogging Skills Cripple Creek Boys Rathskeller 10:30 p.m. Concert: Cripple Creek Boys Rathskeller midnight - Dance: Sassafrass | midnight - Movies | Levis Room

Sunday, October 27 3:30 a.m. Breakfast Richards House | 5:30 a.m. Worship Service Richards House

Monday, October 28 all day Vanderbilt Business School Martin Room 8 a.m. Film Series: Love Auditorium “The Ascent Of Man”

Tuesday, October 29 7:30 p.m. Debate Eu Hall 8 & 10:30 p.m. Horror Film Festival: Love Auditorium “Phantom Of The Opera” all day U.V. Business School Martin Room 1:30 p.m. STEP Party Banquet Hall 7 p.m. Speaker: Carlyle Marney DCPC 7:45 p.m. Drama Production: Hodson Hall “The Servant of Two Masters” 8 & 10:30 p.m. Horror Festival: Love Auditorium “The Eye of the Cat”

Wednesday, October 30 10 a.m. Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall 8 & 10:30 p.m. Horror Film Festival: Love Auditorium “The Uninvited” 8:15 p.m. Drama Production: Hodson Hall “The Servant Of Two Masters”

October 25, 1974 | The Davidsonian

Up 'n Coming | Chambers Lawn Richardson Field

Artists Supersede (Continued from page 9)

Natural law has given way before the relativity of situation ethics, and the consequent confusion in human relationships is leading to the end of our traditional ideas of the individual. Likewise, universally recognized standards of what is a “proper” or “successful” work of art have given way before the new cult of “perma-change,” an ever-receding avant-garde that perpetuates obsolescence. If works of art were completely self-sufficient, then the condition of ever-changing standards would not hamper its chances of survival. Just as the full impact of relativism will destroy the individual by the erosion and elimination of all authority in society, our once passionate response to works of art will grow cold. Indeed, how many of us are capable of a vital response to Herb Jackson’s show currently hanging in Stowe Galleries? The lack of vital response by the mass of viewers to new works of art today is evidence that the relationship between work and viewer is being eroded. (Possibly by the very nature of our increased pace of life in an urbanized, industrial society that deprives us of the time necessary to appreciate by flooding our leisure hours with more diversions than we can handle.) The increasing lack of vital response actually results from the inability of people to become experienced with and have an awareness of a work of art as it relates to those works which preceded it and those which are contemporary with it, and what the aesthetic problems are that are being confronted in them. Only the “expert” who devotes his life to the study of art is in a good position to see this significance. He understands the relationships of individual works with each other better than most people do. Response is thus relative to how much experience viewers have, and as experience requires a great deal of time, expense, and study, the chances of the audience becoming better acquainted with the lightning-fast growth of the modern tradition are reduced. If the comprehension of the ever-growing tradition of art today is sufficiently removed from the experience of most people, then art as it is known today will cease to satisfy any natural, intellectual, or aesthetic desires of these people, and consequently for them it will no longer have any value or exist as a work of art. Modern art by nature will come to exist as art only for an experienced elite.

New Staff Members Named To Town Community Center

The Davidson Parks and Recreation Committee announced this week the appointments of Marcus Rivens Sr. as the Recreation Director of the Davidson CommunityCenter and his assistant Tom Tornee. Rivens and Tornee, along with Center Director Saunie Wood and Director of County Extension Services Julia McCollum, complete the center staff. Rivens, assisted by Tornee, will be responsible for planning and implementing the recreation program at the Center. The program will include the after-school segment for elementary school-aged children and the Jr. and Sr. High evening recreation program. The after-school segment will start Oct. 21st and will run on a regular weekly schedule of Mon., Wed., Thurs., and Fri. from 2 p.m. to 4:15 p.m. The Jr. and Sr. High evening recreation program will start Oct. 23rd and will run on a weekly schedule of Mon. and Wed. from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. and Fridays from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. The gym will be open Tues. and Thurs. evenings for young adults.

Regarding comments about Southern Bell or the proposed Centrex system, various comments were made. One student wrote: "The $15 installation fee is absurd... Centrex sounds great! Anything’s better than what we have.” One student commented: “I have worked for Southern Bell in Atlanta. It does rip people off. It is ridiculous to put in a phone in the same room and take it out and put it back in again the next year.” Another student wrote:

...Lock-Up (Continued from page 1)

The door will be locked from 1:15 a.m. to 7 a.m. These hours were decided on by the freshmen coeds, according to hall counselors Dodie Austin and Laurie Schnackenberg. “This is so people have time to get back after the library closes, and a guard will be around every half hour after to let in anyone who doesn’t have her key,” said Austin. Schnackenberg added that the girls can let in anyone they want. Counselors will be given extra guest cards for the coeds to give any visitors they may have. Both stressed that the program is designed merely to keep unwanted non-students out. President of the Student Government Association Blain Butner and Stone said that they knew of no plans to extend the lock system to the top three floors of Little or to the fourth floor of Belk, where upper-class women currently live.

Rivens has long been active in community development and recreation programs. Presently, he is coaching the Davidson Community Ball Team, is commander of the VFW Post 9104, and is a member of the Extension Advisory Board for North Mecklenburg. Tornee has had a wide range of experiences with young people in the area of athletics. He resides in Davidson. Karl Goodhouse, liaison between the College Y and the Center, has organized a volunteer support group to assist the recreation program. “If you desire to volunteer your time and effort to a community service such as this, please call me at Belk Hall, or call Saunie Wood at the Davidson Community Center in the afternoon,” said Goodhouse.

ASSISTANT RECREATION DIRECTOR

Former Davidson soccer star Tom Tornee will soon begin his job at the Davidson Community Center.

...Centrex System Examined (Continued from page 5)

“Southern Bell wastes many labor hours and money (their own and students’) by installing, taking out, and reinstalling phones every year.” The calculation from the survey of the number of phones installed and the number of phones with long cords revealed that thus far this year Davidson students have paid $3,360 for the installation of phones which would not have to be installed each year under the Centrex system. Another Davidson student responded: “We have had problems with our phone since it’s been installed. We have had people work on it four times and it is still not entirely satisfactory. We are forced to pay ridiculous prices, but we don’t have much choice since it is a monopoly also forcing us to accept poor service.”