Vol. LXIV, No. Two

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

September 20, 1974

Displeased Coeds Petition:
Spencer On Laundry Issue

By NANCY NORTHCOTT
Staff Writer

The controversy that arose last year over the laundry situation at Davidson has started again.

It began last year when Steve Canterbury pointed out in a column in THE DAVIDSONIAN that the college was discriminating
against unmarried male students by making the $130 laundry fee mandatory for them and not for women or married students.

That aspect of the situation has been remedied: this year, all unmarried students must pay for laundry service as part
of the comprehensive fee.

“The college acted typically,” Canterbury commented. “The gross unfairness of the laundry was expressed in my column. And later, in
a referendum, the students favored an optional laundry; therefore the college made the laundry MANDATORY for ALL students. It’s beyond
the realm of reason.

“What to do? Every time a bra or a sock is shrunk write a letter of displeasure to Dr. Spencer,
with a copy to an alumnus friend. Perhaps therein lies the solution,” Canterbury advised.

The referendum to which Canterbury referred was held last spring. In it, 92 percent of the voting students favored having
a laundry of some sort; most preferred the idea of an optional laundry service.

However, College Business Manager Robert Currie indicated that this is not feasible financially.

Currie indicated that the college will be flexible; if students don’t want the laundry, it can be eventually phased out.
Some of this is already being done by not replacing employees who retire. For this academic year, however, the status
quo will remain.

This does not end the controversy. The main complaint that many students have with the laundry is shrinkage. This makes
many of the women students somewhat hesitant about sending anything they value to the laundry.

Although many have not tried the laundry, most prefer to do their own clothes.

At a meeting in Little Dormitory Monday night, many of the upperclass women agreed that their dissatisfaction comes from having
to pay the laundry fee and then having to pay again if they do their own clothes.

They agreed that the best thing would be to make the laundry fee optional, as far as satisfying the students
is concerned.

Barring that, they established three objectives: to have the coin slots removed from the washers, to have machines on each
floor, and to get facilities for ironing put on each floor.

The women signed a petition to be sent to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. as an expression of concern
over the laundry fee.

“I just feel that last year most of the coeds were satisfied with the arrangements that existed in the dormitories
to do the laundry,” said Dana English, who organized the meeting.

“The main concern this year is that most of the girls (See LAUNDRY, page 7)

SUBJECT OF DISPUTE
Laundry fee continues to spark disagreement among students.

Grey Building Gets Funds
From Unexpected Revenues

By BRUCE CORSER
Senior News Editor

Having received unexpected income from several sources, Davidson College has realized a reserve estimated at $312,000 from the operating budget
for the fiscal year 1973-74.

This reserve has been designated for the funding of the $440,000 renovation of the Grey Building from the college library
into the college union. An earlier grant of $50,000 from the Arthur Vining Davis Foundations of Miami, plus the reserve
funds, leave an $80,000 deficit which has yet to be raised.

Comptroller Robert W. Davidson indicated that the balance would probably come from interest on various funds.

“We feel that we can come up with $440,000 for the union renovation. However, building materials such as steel and
concrete have really gone up since July 1,” said Davidson.

Although an audit is not complete, unofficial figures indicate that the college received income above budget expectations in ’73-74 in
the following major areas:

-$63,500 in tuition and fees, primarily because fewer students than expected dropped out of school or transferred during the year.

-$174,000 from the current fund investments averaging almost 10 percent interest.

-$32,000 in additional interest income from the endowment, trust funds, and the Annual Fund.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said, “We feel very fortunate to have had such a good year, especially in
view of the capital expenditures and increased operating costs just ahead.”

“The trustees and the administration are committed to a balanced budget, and are pleased we have finished another year in
the black,” he added.

As favorable as these sources of income have been to Davidson’s financial status, they won’t obviate the probable necessity of
increasing the tuition next year.

Davidson remarked, “I would think that there would have to be some increase. But all we can do is recommend
such an increase to the trustees.”
