_ a ive . * October 25, 1974 - The Davidsonian, Club Football

In the first three games of the Davidson club football season, the "toothless Cats" were defeated 27-0, 21-0, and 90-0, but they really don’t give up. According to club Vice President Bob Wetzel, “Our main problem has been our inability to score points and our failure to prevent our opposition from scoring points.” Rollie White: “Who cares!” Eric Scharling: “What was the question?”

Basically, then, club football at Davidson enables thirty choice degenerates and has-beens to escape, temporarily, into the realms of the real. “You win some and you lose most, but it’s how you keep it up that counts!” These are some of the mottos that our club team takes to their hearts as they courageously and dauntlessly adorn the college gridiron with missed tackles, broken plays, clips, face maskings, late-hits, and foul language, which hopefully (God forbid) won’t bring us “peace without honor,” or prevent the Davidson College yearbook from reaching the hallowed bookshelves of many an upstanding Davidson student.

On the more serious side, Davidson’s inability to score points can be coupled with the numerous fouls assessed to our fine, fighting warriors who habitually throw themselves at the mercy of invading hordes of organized eunuchs attempting to humiliate us on the field as well as on the scoreboard. These penalties have ranged from the more common roughing the down-markers infractions to the sixty-yard penalty for depantsing the visiting coach while he was giving his team a real good psyching. These obstructions to the more scientific elements of the game constitute what is commonly known as “bad sportsmanship,” or more commonly termed “great fun.” Whatever, the toothless wonders have never tasted the chalk in the end zone, praying that it tastes better than the chalk on their own twenty.

This weekend, however, should bring things to a standstill. The toothless wonders, not afraid of laying their record on the line, will meet the club team from U.N.C. on the practice football field at 10 a.m. on Saturday. This game definitely reflects some historical meaning, in that it was two years ago on Homecoming, at 10 in the morning, on Saturday, and on the practice field, that the Cats (0-5) met U.N.C. then 5-0. The outcome was 2-0 in favor of the Cats and an impressive win. Credit for the win goes to Eric Scharling, who after three quarters of a fine no-hitter by Carl Rizzo, blocked an attempted U.N.C. punt that meandered out of the Tarheel end zone for the game’s only score. Star watchers have predicted yet another upset win this weekend, as our spiritual leader KRSNA says, “The stars are right and the Gods are pleased.”

For those of you who are “stats” nuts, we have none to offer, and for those who are Monday morning quarterbacks, we have that really detracts from the purpose of this fine article. What we want to do here is show some insight into this wonderful, masochistic game. You know—“local color.”

In our first game of the season, our hearty team traveled to Duke University, where we were up-ended by some key tactical mistakes (showing up in the first place) that resulted in a drubbing of our heralded crew and the misfortune of this season beginning as all others have. The most outstanding play for the Cats in this game was a team effort that resulted in the blocking of an extra point attempt, causing the miscued score (27-0) and resulting in a great moral victory for the Cats. From here, it proved that all the club team could successfully and consistently do every weekend was bend the point spread.

On the next weekend, Davidson was pitted against Western Piedmont Community College, a two-year lumber jacking school from Asheville. Their visit resulted in yet another axing of the Cats’ hopes for stardom, a bowl bid, and Howard Cosell. Once again, Davidson was...guilty of making some key tactical errors, and before you can say “paistettuja munia” (Finnish for fried eggs), the score jury™ received in the Appalachian game.

On Tuesday, the Cats traveled to Raleigh to play North Carolina State. Davidson scored first, as Joe Duncan connected on a 25-yard shot thirty minutes into the first half. Davidson managed to hold off State until about ten minutes before the end of the half. Then State scored on a center from the left wing. The half ended with the score tied 1-1.

In the second half, all the scoring belonged to N.C. State. Five minutes into the second half, they scored on a play similar to their first-half goal. Midway through the half, State’s left wing made a beautiful maneuver to beat the defense. The final score was 3-1 in favor of State. Playing a good game for the Cats were Duncan and Billy Hawke. Blackwood didn’t even make the trip as his leg was still bothering him. The Cats could be in serious trouble if Blackwood doesn’t return soon, as his ball control is sorely missed. The Cats tried to compensate for Blackwood’s loss by changing their set-up from a 4-3-3 to a 2-4-4, hoping to control play in the middle of the field. Davidson will be out to break this losing streak on Saturday when they host Furman at 10 a.m.

On that festive occasion two weeks ago, the Cats produced a club record (ready stats nuts) of two outstanding plays. We will deal with these in order of occurrence. First, with five minutes and 32 seconds left in the third quarter, Jim Clark, playing in his old high school position (rear end), while pursuing on a sweep play, managed to wipe out Western Piedmont’s entire cheerleading section. He knows the difference between a collision sport and a contact sport. More power to ya, Jim.

Secondly, with 42 minutes of the game yet to play, Davidson’s vaunted offense got it together on a three-yard down and out pass completion to Gogo—the Spanish Fly. We are all very proud of Gogo, and with every game, it appears that he develops into more and more of a deep threat. More power to ya, Gogo.

The third week of contention brought an event to the Davidson gridiron only rivaled in history by Custer’s last stand. On Sunday, the Central Piedmont Community College Outlaws (droogies: worshippers of ultra-violence) walked onto the playing field and out-fought us tooth and nail in a closer game than the 39-0 score indicates. However, it must be noted here for the records and all those stats nuts, that the game was called by the Davidson bench after it was decided that the game was having too many sobering effects on the team. In this game, there was only one outstanding play, the calling of the game, which can be argued out on moral grounds anytime and any day in room 211 Duke.

This game did, however, produce more serious results. Scott Prince, our outstanding right offensive guard, broke his left wrist while retrieving his left hand from the face mask of an opposing defender, and Lester Abberger was lost for the season with ligament problems in his knees. Lester was the team’s leading pass receiver and his talents will be sorely missed.

All this leads to the season’s most remarkable quote by an opposing team (you’re on, stats nuts), “If you can’t stand the heat, get off the pot,” and, “If you can’t stand the heat, get out of the kitchen!” To which we harmoniously chanted, “You can fool Evil Knievel some of the time, but you can’t Lance Rentzel.”

Do you really think God will accept that? That’s no excuse for doing nothing. Join with others at your local synagogue or church. There’s plenty you can do together. Example: In Wisconsin, one religious group set up a halfway house to help women parolees fit themselves back into society. The God we worship expects us to seek out those who need our help, and to help them.

A Public Service of This Newspaper & The Advertising Council

Maybe you can’t help others all by yourself. Start treating our brothers and sisters like brothers and sisters.