Faculty Guest Column Davidson Emulates Hellenistic Libraries The Davidsonian “THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.” - Marshall McLuhan MICHAEL TANNER, Editor-in-Chief By DIRK YOEMANS, Manager

The idea of a library probably originated in ancient Assyria and Babylon. In the Greek world prior to Alexander the Great, only a few tyrants had the means to collect books, but in the Hellenistic Age which Alexander ushered in, state libraries began to spring up everywhere: Antioch, Pergamon, Rhodes, Smyrna, and above all at Alexandria, which also housed the nearby Museum, akin to the modern Institute for Advanced Study or think-tank. Like the professors at the Princeton institute, the incumbents of the Museum were salaried for life just to think.

International Criticism

The comments and criticism of this year’s group of international students concerning the Davidson experience aren’t new. For those on this campus who get to know each year’s group of internationals, the comments made this year may sound old hat because they are. But if every year, the foreigners say essentially the same things about Davidson, then it stands to reason that there must be an element of truth in it all.

Just compare this with the remarks of the foreign students of two and three years ago. There were few among that group that believed they could stand Davidson until Christmas. After the initial shock of entry, this group grumbled for the entire year about every facet of the Davidson lifestyle, its academic program, and the character of the student body. Well, that was in the old days before public lectures and symposia. Kings have been a participant. The handsome physical plant supplied by the Ptolemies included the commons, a splendid lecture hall, and a tree-planted quad. In short, the Museum was in effect a university. To the general public, its residents were somewhat suspect, as are students and professors in the modern world; a contemporary skeptic termed them “fatted chickens in a coop.”

If the Museum was an important factor in making Alexandria the center of the Hellenistic world in science and literature, the Library was even more important. After its foundation, ships came from every known country and dumped so many book rolls on Alexandria’s quays that it was not until the reign of Ptolemy II that they finally could be sorted out and catalogued. Even by the time of Cleopatra, so many were stored on shelves that Caesar had burned down the entire library.

In the past two centuries of operation, the library had acquired many books, and the practice of copyists determined the form of book production in the ancient world. The head librarian, who was ex officio tutor to the crown prince, set a literary taste for learned allusion that survives in direct descent in the subtle obscurities of an Ezra Pound or a T. S. Eliot.

On the Davidson campus, we have long enjoyed the amenities of Chambers Hall, our own temple of the Muses, which under its high priest functions much as did the Alexandrian Museum. Now from its windows, one views the muddy wastes of our own tree-planted quad-to-be, and beyond this, the impressive quasi-classical mass of the soon-to-be-completed library. If this happy juxtaposition of books and the Muses should prove to function as it did for ancient Alexandria, then Davidson may well become a modern center of learning and culture.

The financial and social background of most of Davidson’s students are very much the same - middle to upper class - and part of Davidson's program is the lure of the lifestyle that those students’ parents enjoy. This is, of course, not true in every case, but it is true enough to be a significant factor. So, what the international students find when they arrive is an institutional set of values perpetuated by the students.

One international woman has made the astute observation that the average student at Davidson seems to be convinced of a particular set of values, academic values, traditions, and social norms. She’s right, of course, and for a good reason: Davidson has become a good place to live rather than a good place to leave.

The international students don’t complain so much these days when you consider the past. But still, their observations and comments are in many cases justified, as one would expect them to be. They are intelligent people who are able to be as objective as any of us about the college, about what it says it offers, and about what it really offers. One comment, though, especially needs mention in the light of the institutional values.& Doles ttebetelinen international sector have become benign in recent years. That’s a good sign; it means that Davidson might still be changing for the better.

The new E. H. Little Library has the capacity to store half a million books against the day that Davidson's collection may grow to such size. It can seat more than three times the number of students who now make use of the facility at any given time. No longer will the freshman find himself lost in a maze of mezzanines; all books will be shelved on the top level. No longer will co-eds look in vain for a women’s room; as our first monument to co-education, Little Library features feminine facilities on every floor!

From the elegant rare book room with its fireplace to the 24-hour study room in the basement, all is designed for brightness, convenience, and air-conditioned comfort, with foresight for future expansion. The library staff is headed by the Director, Dr. Chalmers Davidson, who, like his Alexander namesake, is a scholar, author, and administrator. Under him serve a variety of gifted and dedicated people including a former professor of classics and other college and school teachers whose fields range from music to mathematics.

Next year the new library will provide office space for active professors emeriti, who will act as consultants to students wishing to pursue independent research in the professors’ areas of competence. This program is funded by a $50,000 challenge grant to Davidson by the National Endowment for the Humanities for an innovative proposal to effect (as the grant reads) “the transition of many libraries from repositories for books to the central agency of the teaching process.”

If Davidson's library is to become in truth the central agency of the teaching process, as was the ancient library, many of us will have to acquire a new mind-set to go along with the new building. The library together with the laboratories ought to be regarded as the most indispensable places on campus, rather than as that which students avoid. The 100 percent carpeted halls ought to be thought of as the most natural place on campus to be, rather than as a place of penance.

I remember participating in a discussion series in which the subject of the honor system was brought up. The students felt that the Davidson Honor Code was generally strong and effective, but they admitted that there were certain areas in which it did not apply. They were not inclined to spell out these areas, but I can guess at one.

(See HELLENISTIC LIBRARY, page 5)

The Bulls and The Bells

In colder climates, they flock to colleges and universities or to promising literary scenes in and around New York City and the state of California. In the tropics, they scatter to the four winds, from Bimini down to Curacao, over to Bali and Bora Bora, and they write it all down. These are the literary hopefuls for the next generation, the young and the not-so-young aspirant novelists, poets, and playwrights waiting to put to paper the flash of genius that will finally coax the demigod Publishing House to take a gamble on their work.

For those caught in its grips, creative expression is the most painful of intellectual ordeals and at the same time, a near-narcotic compulsion. Once the hopefuls have written something of their own for the first time, the years become an endless series of yellow pads, spent pens, and typewriter ribbons until they have finally written in their own blood that which is worthy of publication (if they’re lucky). And their reasons for writing are as varied as their subject matter: for the self-satisfaction, to make the quick buck, for their names to be immortalized in future freshman English survey courses—‘Modern Literature from the Works of Fitzgerald and Hemingway to the Sunshine of (fill in your name).’

You can find here and there in close-knit associations, bouncing thoughts off of one another, waiting for the day when one in the group will succeed and then perhaps, others may follow. And they're here at Davidson. Fred Chappell noted that this year’s entries to the Vereen Bell competition were among the best examples of student writing he has seen in recent years. Who knows, maybe Davidson is already spawning its own contestants for future literary fortune, maybe one of this year’s winners will someday breach the almighty Publishing House. And maybe the same can be said of those whose work Chappell criticized as “bullshit.”

But whatever happens, we extend our congratulations to the winners and the losers of the Vereen Bell for their time and efforts spent toward helping Davidson College distinguish itself for things other than graduate school preparation.