MWriting

News

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

Bacon (Out of Sight)
Gourmet's Delight (Salami & Mushrooms)
Mozzarella Cheese (None Better)
Sausage (Good)
White Mushroom (Tasty)
Ground Beef (Choice)
Salami (Best Italian)
Ham (Premium)
Green Bell Pepper (Freshly Diced)
Onion (Sweet)
Pepperoni (Finest Available)
Black Olive (Tasty Delight)
New Orleans Shrimp (Small & Succulent)
Smoked Oysters

Up’ n ‘Coming

Friday, September 20
6 p.m. Soccer: The Campbell College Campbell Classic
8 & 10:30 p.m. Popular Film: “Big Jake”

Saturday, September 21
Love Auditorium
8 a.m. Cross Country: Stone Mountain, Ga. Mountain Road Race
2:30 p.m. Football: Appalachian vs. Davidson
9 p.m. All-Campus Dance: “Sassafras” Chambers Banquet Hall

Sunday, September 22
3-5 p.m. Opening: Herb Jackson’s Paintings and Drawings Stowe Galleries

Monday, September 23
All Week Herb Jackson Display Stowe Galleries
11 a.m. Humanities Film: “Tell Me If Anything Was Ever Done” Perkins Auditorium
7 p.m. Lecture Dr. James McCleland DCPC
8 p.m. Film Series: “The Ascent of Man” Love Auditorium

IMAC Flamers

(continued from page 9)

The AT Zeroes will hang their rumps in the bottom of the basket once more.

The Staten Island Fairies have hung up their high heels and opted for P.E. 101 under the new ownership of
a pair of the world’s largest dwarfs and their mongoloid assistant Coach “Rah-Rah” Friars.

The new social disease on campus, Cornelius Lint and Paper—yes folks, that does spell CLAP, will scratch and burn their
way to homogenous losses. SPE’s aside, CLAP always combines a superb rush with a devastating draw play. This team hits
all over the field.

I Felta Thigh is looking forward to a long, hard season with plenty of ups and downs. If CLAP can
get inside on the Thighs, the boys in IFT will be hurting.

If we didn’t rag on you this week, let us know, and we'll make sure we getcha next week if
we ever get to England.

Oh yeah, if your private places got burned last week, try Vaseline. It does wonders.

And remember, be like a Koala Bear, says C.A. Eat roots, shoots, and leaves. Try blowing that out your shorts.

Young Buck swears by all pinball that C.A. tossed his cookies after he read this.

Lisbon Anchovie (Choice Imported)
Half & Half (½ Cheese & ½ of one ingredient of your choice)
Pizza Sew Gourmet: Mushroom and Pepperoni
King Of Pizza Special (Combination of Everything but Anchovie)
Beef & Onion (Right Combination)
Vegetarian Deluxe (Meatless)
Mushroom, Onion & Green Pepper
King's Choice (Sausage, Onion, Green Pepper)
Custom Combination (Your Heart's Desire)
For Each Ingredient add:
Except Green Pepper or Onion:

Spaghetti Dinner with Salad
Small Spaghetti & Garlic Bread

SALAD (Fresh & Crisp) Choice of Dressing

Beer on draught:
Domestic lager by the pitcher or stein:
Famous imported beers from the world over

WDAV-Radio 90.5 Is On The Air

Come browse and see our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans

MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
