Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Cats, Mounties Clash In Opener

By CARLYLE SHERRILL
Staff Writer

The Davidson football team opens the season tomorrow afternoon facing the Appalachian Mountaineers. The game will begin at 2 p.m. on Richardson Field. According to Head Coach Ed Farrell, the game will be a stern test for the eager Wildcats. Farrell stated that Appalachian is “one of the three best teams we play, talent-wise.”

Appalachian has already claimed victories over Eastern Tennessee and Middle Tennessee. Middle Tennessee, in particular, was not a pushover. Previously, they had defeated Tennessee State, last year’s college division champion.

Appalachian will bring into the game a 6-4 defense and an offense that runs from the I-formation. The key to their offense will be quarterback Robbie Price, who engineered Appalachian’s 18-7 upset over Middle Tennessee, scoring once himself on a 20-yard run, and throwing a 56-yard touchdown pass.

1974 SCHEDULE
Open
at Wofford
at Lehigh
Defiance
Appalachian*
at Lenoir Rhyne
Hampden-Sydney (HC)
at Guilford
at The Citadel*
* Denotes Southern Conference Games

Laundry (Continued from page 1)

Students will pay to use the machines over and above the laundry fee. Frances Beaver, manager of the laundry, feels that the laundry can do a good job for coeds. She handles most of the women’s clothing as delicates, washed separately from the men’s and in home-type washers. Beaver said that there is one free washer and dryer in the laundry for student use during business hours.

“In about two years, we may go to just linens and shirts and coin-operated machines, but we are trying to phase out gradually, as long-time employees retire. We also have two coin-operated machines to be installed in Belk,” she said.

Both Currie and Beaver said that the laundry was still adjusting to having so many students. Both also said that they are anxious to help and want the students to feel satisfied with the laundry. Currie and Beaver said that the laundry may go over totally to coin-operated machines in a central location if there is continued demand for them, but that would take time. They also said that a centralized location would be necessary for free machines to permit the necessary supervision.

Whatever you want, we've got it.

ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
170 N. Main
Nat E. Smith
Mooresville, N.C.

Bashfuls Ltd.
Terrariums—Plants—Candies—Handmade Jewelry—Tea
Stationery—Leather Goods—Mother Earth News—Pottery
Our gallery features national as well as local work. We encourage students to bring their work by. A nice place to browse.

Need Money?
THE DAVIDSONIAN will pay $30 for an afternoon of your time. We need someone with a car and the time on Thursday afternoon to drive the paper to press. If interested, inquire at the Davidsonian offices upstairs in the Union.

THE MOORESVILLE RADIO SERVICE AND SALES
173 W. Main Street2e gat oy

MEDICAL SCHOOL APPLICANTS - The Mountaineers use basically a ground control offense utilizing the triple option, but they can still throw the ball. Occasionally they will try to throw deep off of the halfback option, trying to catch the defense unaware.

The Wildcats warmed up for Appalachian last Saturday in a scrimmage with Newberry College. The coaching staff was not pleased with the way the team responded in a game situation. “We didn’t play well, but I’m not discouraged; it was not for lack of talented players or inadequacies in the system,” said Farrell. “We had been working on certain things in spring and pre-season practice, and we forgot those when we got in a game situation.”

The potential for a good Wildcat attack is present, however, and at times during the scrimmage, it showed. Halfback Larry Hardaway and offensive lineman Jim Kleinfelder were singled out by Farrell for their performance during the scrimmage. “On occasion, the whole offensive line showed great progress,” he added. Gary Pomeroy and Foney Mullins were injured during the scrimmage, but both will be ready by game-time on Saturday.

As a team, the Wildcats will be ready when Appalachian arrives on Saturday afternoon, according to Farrell. The head coach will not change the basic defense to stop the triple option, but there are minor adjustments built into the system which will help stop Appalachian’s offense.

The outstanding players thus far for Davidson on offense have been David Harper, Hardaway, Kleinfelder, and Pomeroy. In looking forward to Appalachian, Farrell warned, “They've had a better chance to work out the kinks.”

HEROES
“Great American Heroes,” a video-taped program starring Big Daddy, Evil Knievel, a ladies’ roller derby champ, and a rich stripper, will be shown continuously every evening through Sunday at the College Union. Free.

LIGHTWEIGHT CYCLES
Fiji Bicycles
Fine Components
Repairs

WORLD FAMOUS PIZZA
LASAGNE
RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINE
STEAK
Other dishes
CHOICE WINES & BEERS

PIZZA “TAKE OUT SERVICE”
GAY 90’S ATMOSPHERE
596-0256
HWY 49 - UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD
CORNELIUS, N.C.

Welcome coeds to our community. Visit our Junior Dept. and see our fine collection of sportswear, dresses, jeans, tops, and sweater jackets. Bring this ad and receive a 10% discount off our regular price. We are located in Cornelius, 1 mile south of Davidson.

American Medical College Admissions Profile, Inc., offers computerized analysis to assist you in more effectively assessing your qualifications and more accurately directing your medical school applications. Your MCAT scores, grade point average, college attended, state of residence, age, and other criteria are used in a comparative analysis with the previously accepted class at the medical schools you select. Contact your pre-medical advisor for further information or write A.M.C.A.P., P.O. Box 8747, Boston, Massachusetts 02114.