Twelve April 5, 1974 The Davidsonian

Friday, April 5
all week
Up ‘n’ Comin Third Davidson

(Continued from page 1)
The Georgian challenged the Congress to look ahead into the void and make plans. "We must ask ourselves, ‘What will we do after we don't have Richard Nixon to kick around anymore?’" said Young. The five-point plan which Young favors calls for public financing of campaigns, tax reform, more intelligent economic planning, a guaranteed annual income, and a comprehensive health care plan.

Public financing of campaigns will help to rid Washington of the golden rule," stated Young. The golden rule states that he who has the gold is the one who rules. With increased investment in the U.S. by Arabs and Japanese, Young warns against the possibility of foreign involvement in political campaigns. "Such involvement is dangerous," he said.

all week
Registration - Registrars Office

Friday, April 5
4 p.m. Nick Hallman - Morrison Room
Workshop: “Double Picking” - Matton
8 & 10 p.m. Walt Disney Film Festival: “The Absent-Minded Professor” - Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Banquet - Chambers Banquet Hall

Saturday, April 6
2 p.m. Kite Flying - Soccer Field
2 p.m. Square Dance - Practice Field
8 & 10 p.m. Festival: “Shaggy Dog” - Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Concert: SSS - Chambers Banquet Hall

Sunday, April 7
10 p.m. Davidsonian Recruitment - Davidsonian Office

Monday, April 8
11 a.m. Blood Drive - Chambers Banquet Hall
2 p.m. Film: “M” - Perkins Auditorium
8:15 p.m. Recital: Robert Jackson - Hodson Hall

Tuesday, April 9
3 p.m. Lecture: J.A. Curry - Honors College
4 p.m. Lecture: Willard Bennett - Dana 114
7 p.m. Drama Workshop: The Passion Sections from The Chester Mystery Plays - DCPC
8 p.m. Puppets - Love Auditorium

Wednesday, April 10
all day
8 p.m. Fine Film: “The Projectionist” - Love Auditorium

Thursday, April 11
7:30 p.m.

(Continued from page 1)
Requests on Hall's behalf have been made in the past, and the votes have usually been close. "However, Meredith was much more positive last night than has been the case in the past," Butner suggested. Hall presented a report to the Senate and answered questions on his current activities. "At times I have had to make appointments three weeks in advance. More and more students are using my services, and I can't understand why I was cut back by the administration instead of expanded," he commented.

The formal contract hasn't been drafted yet, but Munce’s committee is expected to submit it to the Senate for approval in the near future. "We will emphasize Dr. Hall's clinical psychology services, and hope also to achieve flexibility, better communication, and an emphasis on the SGA’s active role in counseling," Munce said. "Also, the college hasn't budgeted him (Dr. Hall) for group counseling activities, and this will be changed," Butner added.

In other business, Senator Bob Penny reported on his efforts to establish a non-credit typing course for Davidson students. According to Penny, the course is ready to begin next fall. The SGA Senate will handle registration and will sell the textbooks. Mrs. Snider of the Fine Arts Department will teach the course.

And in other business, the Senate approved a charter for the Davidson Christian Fellowship.John Brunner: "The Canterbury Tales"
Marine Corps Drama Workshop: "The Romancers" & "The Interview"

inevitable under our present system of operating campaigns. It’s a real threat to this nation’s national security,” Young warns. Young was not specific on his plans for tax reform. He did say that he favors “a tax structure which is equitable to all.”

The Charlotte Opera Association will present Gounod’s immortal "Faust" on Friday evening, April 5 at 8:00 p.m. and Sunday afternoon, April 7 at 2 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. In the title role will be Metropolitan and New York City Opera tenor, Kenneth Riegel. In the role of Mephistopheles will be Bass-baritone Arnold Voketaitis. Marguerite will be played by the beautiful lyric soprano of the New York Opera, Karen Armstrong. Tickets are available for both performances. The prices range from $7 for orchestra and mezzanine to $5 for side orchestra and $4 for balcony. There is a student balcony rate of $2.50 as well. For tickets write or call the Charlotte Opera Association.

Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
170 N. Main
Mooresville, N.C.

HATTIE'S HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30
IMPORTED BEER
Now Serving The “Hattie” Cheeseburger

The Congressman also calls for a more effective and efficient change to a peace-time economy. Reverend Young said that much of the nation's inflation is caused by corrupt government officials. “The wheat deal, for instance, was a political move on the part of Nixon which drastically hurt our economy. I also have suspicions about the oil crisis.

“The whole black political awakening in this country is cause for optimism,” he said. “Blacks are everywhere challenging whites in elections. Even when the black candidates lose, the whites usually become more responsive to poor people's needs,” observes Young. Additional reasons for Young’s optimism include the increasing number of young black and white Southerners elected to Congress and the recent attempts by Congress to pass various welfare measures.

Young agreed that a large majority of blacks normally vote Democratic. ... Young Chastises Nixon “I wouldn't be surprised if that vote completely turns around in the 1976 election. It could happen if the Democrats turn conservative and choose Henry Jackson as their candidate and the Republicans respond with, say, a Gerry Ford-Edward Brooke ticket,” speculates Young.

Young said that his ministry brought him into politics. “I realized that the communities I preached to were being cheated out of decent jobs, good wages, and voting rights. Ten years ago we didn't even have the vote.” The Georgia Congressman observed that churches are quite powerful as a political voice. “What other organizations besides churches, have regular once-a-week meetings of 300 to 500 people?” asked Young. He further commented that Biblical scriptures have often given him inspiration for political proposals.

In Congress Young participates on committees dealing with banking, finance, and international trade.

Sherrill’s Jewelry
Watch & Jewelry Repair
Davidson, N. C.

For Your SPORTING LIFE
TENNIS SHORTS BY Munsingwear and Jantzen
KNIT SHIRTS by Izod, Munsingwear and Jantzen
TENNIS SHOES Jack Purcell by Converse
MOCCASINS by Bass

ESTABLISHED
John Mock & Son
Union National.
DAVIDSON
128 NORTH MAIN STREET
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA