Tournament Activity Highlights

IMAC League

A tourney has rolled—the double elimination bracket now has eight teams left to battle it out for the B-Ball crown.
In some of the more exciting action, the undefeated Cleveland Indians gained a semi-berth by just tipping the tenacious freshman-infested
Brew team 65-62 in double overtime. Vergil Demery and Mark Rodgeman led the hard-to-predict Indians with 22 and 21 points
respectively. The Little Big Men combined a superb fast break with a sticky man-to-man defense (Martin Eakes holding IMAC leading
scorer Pat (Goon) Flanigan to 19 points) to defeat the otherwise hapless ATO’s 59-41.

In an unfortunate intra-fraternity struggle, PDT #1 and PDT #2 confronted each other to get into the semis. Mitch Purvis,
Dan Henderson, and George (Quasar) Weicker led the No. 1 team to a fairly predictable ten-point win over their counterparts.
The fact that the Delts had to play each other so early is fairly sad, but seeing as how the
brackets were drawn out of a hat, it could not really be helped. A cruel trick of fate for PDT.

The tourney’s big upset so far was the outstanding effort pulled by PGD in defeating the powerful Ghetto by a
59-42 score. Superb play by Many (Stick) Williamson and hot shooting by Bob Sanders gave PGD their biggest win of
the year. In one of the roughest games of the year, the Gamms unfortunately lost the services of their other
top-notch player Chris (Mr. Hustle) Young, who sprained his ankle halfway through the game when he attempted to draw a
charge on the bleachers. He was called for the blocking foul by referees Edgar (Spaceman) Weir and Mitch Balcom.

SAE #1 survived a pretty tough opening round opponent in the Midnight Tokers despite Steve Miller’s 30 points. SAE’s strength
on the boards and the floor play of the Hillbilly rock Tim Spenser led the E’s to the semi-finals. The
Tokers managed to recover fast from their defeat at the Gozinya palace. The Tokers did blame their loss on the
ineffectual play of point man Alec (Hawk) Hoon. Team spokesman David (Super Chicken) Kittrell said Hoon was going to have
his “ST” privileges revoked for the rest of the year.

The B-League tourney is progressing rather well at the moment with favorites for the crown WAO (a misplaced A league
team), the MG's, led by the Strong Brothers, and well-rounded IFT coached by the Adolph Rupp-Phog Allen combination of Kirk
Combe and Ken Schmaden. May you all come unstuck in time.

THE SKINS HAVE IT

IMAC tournament play was in full swing this week, with 8 teams left battling for the title.

Cartmill Seeks New Football Alignment

By MARK WILENSKY
Sports Editor

Having been on the job but a few short weeks, new Athletic Director Thom A. Cartmill is already trying to
cope with the maze...of problems facing Davidson's athletics. Cartmill talked first about the football program, pointing out that while the
Wildcats were still members of the Southern Conference, they wouldn’t play the necessary five games to qualify for the championship.

“I feel that by reducing our competition we can bring football back to a high level,” said Cartmill. “The plan
is to become a Division Two team after the next season, if the Administration approves. We can be an immediate
challenger for the championship of Division Two,” he added.

“We will definitely remain in Division I in basketball,” Cartmill said. “Whether we go to Division Two in football or
not, we will remain in Division I in basketball.”

Cartmill admitted that even with the new “scholarship based on need” program, Davidson would still be paying men to play
football. “We'll be doing the same thing as the Ivy League schools and many other schools of our size. We
never have given many free rides, so I expect the scholarship program to cost about the same as before,” Cartmill
said. “We won't be giving any more money than the individual PCS form indicates,” he added.

The new head football coach will not come from the present personnel, according to Cartmill. “Coach Wade is going to
Army, Ernie Tall is going to East Tennessee State, and Bob Mosketti is going to Marshall University,” he said. “They
all did great jobs for Davidson and we're sorry to see them go,” Cartmill said. “We're most fortunate that Dave
Roberts is staying, and right now he is doing a fantastic job of recruiting. He’s doing the work of more
than one man,” he added.

Cartmill said that in order to get the program off to a good start, they need a new coach. “But
Dave Roberts has been assured a job at Davidson College,” he said. “We've had a tremendous amount of applications for
the head coaching position,” Cartmill said, “and hopefully we'll have a new coach in two or three weeks.”

Cartmill said that, together with Tom Scott and the administration, he will work to find a new coach and also
would seek some type of player input. Cartmill said that he is most interested in improving the IMAC and P.E.
programs. “Chip Stone needs a secretary badly,” he said. “We’ve got to improve that communication in that part of the
program.”

Stone will continue as soccer coach for now, but Cartmill stressed that his main responsibility is in the areas of
physical education and intramurals. “The soccer team needs a coach with the time to do a good job, as do
the other programs,” Cartmill noted. “I believe that Chip Stone will be able to continue handling these jobs well.”

Cartmill said that a woman sports instructor will be added to the staff and will especially be interested in tennis,
gymnastics, and swimming. Cartmill cut the interview short to “let President Spencer beat me at tennis.” If all his instincts
are that good, the athletic program is in good hands.

In the area of women's sports:

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7 — Wed. 9-12. — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N.C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

HATTIE'S HAPPY HOUR — 7-9 Tues. - Fri.
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7-9:30
IMPORTED BEER
Now Serving The “Hattie”

The Master of Shock... A Shocking Masterpiece! A deadly new twist from the original Hitchcock.

See Our Large Selection Of Jewelry

HITCHCOCK’S “FRENZY”
A UNIVERSAL RELEASE
TECHNICOLOR®

Friday, Feb. 8
8 and 10:30
