--Leon Venable

The Davidsonian

By VINCE RABIL
Contributing Editor

The annual Davidson Student Art Show opened last Sunday night with the presentation of awards and the showing of student-made
films.

The juror for the show was William Byrum of the Art department at UNC-Charlotte. He expressed his favorable impression with
the scope of artistic endeavors and wide variety of styles displayed in the show. He also commented that overall the
works exhibited showed that many students were very serious about their work and that he could see many were anticipating
careers in the arts.

There were six awards presented for the regular show and Tony Snow’s film “Graduation Day” won the first award for
student films.

Three Honorable Mention awards were given. One went to Joe Rodriguez for a print featuring “Ted” and “Billy.”

The painting, “Crucifixion,” by Daniel Henderson, and Steve Fitzgerald’s study in the textural properties of paper also received Honorable Mention.

Third award went to Virginia Newell for a very spontaneous and expressive linear drawing of a reclining figure.

Jason Noble won the Second Award for a print entitled “Precosmic Knowledge: Goik.” This print is very characteristic of Jason’s
casual and often humorous treatment of metaphysical and mythological themes. I believe he has a very fresh style which more
than compensates for his preoccupation with traditional subjects.

The First Award went to me for a painting which features the face of Aldous Huxley reproduced three times across
the canvas, and which is superimposed over about 1,700 circles of various shades.

Overall I think this show lacks a great deal of depth, and many works including my own are a bit
flashy. Nevertheless, it does show that a great many students are developing serious interests in the visual arts.

In the Art department here at Davidson there are basically two methods of instruction as represented by Jackson and Houchens.

The works in the student show reflect these divergent emphases of classical calculation and objectivity by Jackson and the empathetic,
expressive, subjectivity by Houchens.

Overall the show is not especially spectacular but there are quite a few very interesting works throughout.

Most of these works are for sale, but there is no listing of works with artists. The Art department welcomes
inquiry from possible purchasers.

--Leon Venable

INTRODUCING
The Endless Feast

Imagine all the Prime Ribs you can eat and all the cold foamy beer you can drink and all the
crisp green salad you can make and all the piping hot French bread you can butter.

Served with baked Idaho potato
Coffee or tea
$6.95

523-9678
Open for lunch Monday-Friday 11:30 A.M.
3637 South Boulevard

All major credit cards accepted
Open for dinner Monday-Sunday 4:30 P.M.

Present this coupon at Steak Pub Limited for $1.00 off your dinner check.
Name
School

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

Michael Caine
In
SLEUTH

Seniors free with I.D.
Friday, May 2
8 & 10:30 P.M.
Sir Lawrence Olivier

Friday, May 2
10 a.m. Coffee & Cokes
8 & 10:30 p.m. Pop Film: “Sleuth”

Saturday, May 3
10:30 p.m. Dance: “Company”

Sunday, May 4
8 p.m. Concert: Michal Urbaniak
Born in Warsaw during World War II, Michal Urbaniak is one of East Europe’s premiere violinists. His group weds the
traditional music of their homeland with modern improvisational jazz.

Monday, May 5
8:15 p.m. Student Organ Recital: Robert Ludwig

Wednesday, May 7
8:15 p.m. DC Chamber Winds
This student group will play three pieces, one of which was composed by Richard Strauss when he was eighteen.

Thursday, May 8
10-11 a.m. Coffee & Cokes
9 p.m. Open End: Bruce Burleson, American Party Representative

All week The Student Show

Stowe Galleries
Banquet Hall
Love Auditorium
Hodson Hall
Hodson Hall
Banquet Hall
Love Auditorium
DCPC
Hodson Hall
Morrison Room
Banquet Hall
