December 12, 1975

The Davidsonian

By BILL LINK
Associate Editor

The Davidson production of Broadway’s musical ‘1776’ was a successful, somewhat enlightening, and entertaining one.

The plot of ‘1776’ is set in the time of the signing of the Declaration of Independence. Every schoolboy knows,
of course, that our founding fathers met in Philadelphia, in the summer of 1776, issuing forth Jefferson’s famous document.

We expect, we know, what the outcome of the story will be: the Declaration will be signed, America will win
her independence, and somehow we will come to what we are in 1975.

However, in ‘1776,’ the picture painted of our founding fathers is not so solemn, not so inevitable, as our schoolboy’s
image of the past. The Continental Congress, such as it was, is portrayed comically: somehow they bumble their way into
creating the United States of America.

Franklin and Lee plot to introduce a Declaration of Independence.

On the other hand, we would be perhaps going too far if we were to characterize ‘1776’ as comic pure
and simple. Somehow, after all, despite the comic confusion, America is born. Thus, one of the chief successes of ‘1776’
is that it is at once a spoof and an exposition of “patriotic” history.

Most of the musical numbers of ‘1776’ (although not all of them) complement the serious and comic of ‘1776’. “Sit
Down, John,” “Piddle, Twiddle and Resolve,” “The Lees of Old Virginia,” and “Cool, Cool, Considerate Men” on the whole achieve
this purpose. All are quite comic, lively, and entertaining—even for one (such as myself) who has a natural aversion to
musicals.

In addition, the final number before the intermission (“Mamma Look Sharp,” sung by Jim Wilkins), adds little, aside from the
maudlin, which seems quite out of touch with the rest of the play.

‘1776’ contains some strong acting, coming mainly from the play’s antagonists. Pennsylvania’s John Dickenson (Robert Ousley) and South Carolina’s Edmund
Rutledge (David Vosburgh) successfully play two arrogant and almost despicable villains. Ousley’s and Vosburgh’s forceful acting, I might add, almost
(but not quite) stole the performance away from the play’s heroes, Franklin, Adams, and Jefferson.

John Adams, played by Don Perkins—who, incidentally, also directed the play—was perhaps the dramatic hero of ‘1776’. Perkins on the
whole was a good Adams, despite the fact that as protagonist his role was a bit limited—we do, after all,
know that he will succeed.

Benjamin Franklin (Sam Kressen) was, I think, a more difficult role to play, since—through historical mythology (as Adams tells Franklin
at one point)—we are better acquainted with Franklin than with Adams. We expect Franklin to be a sage, perhaps even
a bawd: where Kressen and the play succeed, though, is in maintaining this popular image of Franklin, yet at the
same time spoofing it.

---

Plaza Gift Shop

“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”

Holiday Season Hours:
10-5:30, Mon.-Thurs. and Sat.
10-8:00 Friday

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503

---

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION
SNACK BAR SPECIAL

6 oz RIB EYE STEAK
FRENCH FRIES
TOSSED SALAD
& ROLL

$2.25
FRIDAY DEC. 12 - THURSDAY DEC. 18

---

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841
