Eight The Davidsonian April 24, 1975

Eastern vacation provides hectic relief

By JULIUS S. WINKLER
Professor of German

“More is worse,” Anthony Burgess quotes Kingsley Amis in an article published some time ago in the New York Times Magazine. I think it was the same article in which Burgess pleased more readers than one by referring to Hermann Hesse as “that dubious orientalist.”

In the old days, motorists abroad within a 200-mile radius of Chattanooga were importuned to See Rock City. It was as if the See Rock City people had hired 95 percent of the commercial billboards in any given area, along with sides and roofs of barns. Ruby Falls had the other 5 percent.

There have been some substantial changes. There are a lot more rock cities in a lot more places.

Ghost Town

If I had not been so slow-witted back when they were bulldozing that mountain top to build Ghost Town, I might have written a song called Smoky Mountain High and Julius Waynesville would be at the top of the record heap.

About ten years ago we made a final flurry at summertime camping in the Smokies. Turned away at Smokemont and thus deprived of our best chance to find out whether Cherokee’s heralded Dancing Chicken really was a gallinaceous fowl or just a twinkle-toed coward, we were slowly suffocating in the effluvium of an A&P diesel carrying the good life to Bryson City. Suddenly beside the road cropped up one of those hand-lettered signs indigenous to the area. “Where,” it queried, “will you spend eternity?”

“Not behind an A&P truck halfway between Cherokee and Bryson City,” was the instantaneous consensus, and back down the mountain we came.

Some years later, up in Rolling Rock beer country, we saw a chicken in a glass enclosure. Drop a nickel in the slot and the bird did his routine, which was to look exactly like a chicken dancing. For his livelihood. A pro.

The summer we discovered a worse blot on humankind’s escutcheon than Maggie Valley began sylvanly enough near Watkins Glen, in the Finger Lakes Region. The people in the site next to ours had one of those trailers that suggest a giant silver watermelon, or perhaps a steamed pudding pan. At any rate, they displayed a little wooden notched-end sign, into which had been carefully burned the information that these were the Friendly Freemans, out of King of Prussia, Pa. Naturally, we never exchanged a word with them.

One day, having tired of watching the three-inch rainbow trout in Catherine Creek savage my expensive dry flies, I returned to the campground to be greeted by the middle child with, “Guess what, Dad!”

I well knew by then that guess what was shorthand for guess, she continued, “Benno (our German shepherd) bit a Friendly Freeman.”

I don’t even like to think about what might have ensued if he had bitten a Pugnacious Putnam or a Bellicose Ballew.

Now the town of Lake George, New York, cannot perform miracles. It cannot, by comparison, make Maggie Valley look good in anysense of the word. But it comes close. A certain campground at Lake George rated four stars in a certain guidebook to campgrounds. Four stars meant you were the best you could be and that, among other things, entertainment was close by.

Bandwagon
Thursday, April 24 7 p.m.
Sunday, April 27 7-10 p.m.
Catholic Mass
The Student Show: Lingle Chapel
Stowe Galleries within walking distance.

Lured thither by those four stars, what we saw from the car was not all that enticing: your basic flat field with a few scrub firs scattered here and there. Across the street from the entrance was, obviously, the entertainment: something called Gay Nineties Village. I asked the attendant at a nearby gas station if it was a good place to camp. It was all right, he allowed, except on the nights when Gay Nineties Villagers got a little too much to drink and walked over and set the tents on fire.

Banks of the Hudson

This gave the concept of entertainment a new dimension, granted, but we camped elsewhere, twenty miles elsewhere, on the banks of the Hudson above its first major polluter. But life will have its little ironies: such a rain set in that Ivar Kreuger would not have had enough matches to ignite a tent.

George and Maggie have a German cousin. His name is Titisee and his abode is high in the mountains of the Black Forest. Here West and East have married perfectly and their issue is for sale: little cuckoo clocks made in Hong Kong. They are called two-day clocks because that is about how long they last after being removed from the enchanted atmosphere of Titisee.

Meanwhile, there we sat in our costly motor—termed variously a Travelawful or a Travailall—in the rain at a McDonald’s or whatever in upstate New York. Parked facing us was a big Buick plastered with Gay Nineties Village and similar bumper stickers. “Look, Dad,” said a seven-year-old voice, “that car has been to six different crap towns.” Thus are definitions born.

To get back to the beginning—if it is true, what Anthony Burgess said Kingsley Amis said, then it is a good thing I don’t have more time to spend on this piece.

Offer the full range, but we add that getting the best of you, of your bank...at Piedmont.

Opening of a two-week exhibition of drawings, prints, and paintings by Davidson students. Experimental films will be shown.

Monday, April 28
8:15 p.m.
Student Organ Recitals: Forrest Flaniken, Carl Schwartz

Tuesday, April 29
D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS: Diana Ross in Lady Sings The Blues
7 p.m.
Worship Services: DCPC
Jim Goodloe, a pre-ministerial student, will lead the service.

Wednesday, April 30
7:30 p.m.
Spring Drama Production: Hodson Hall
Student opening of Cole Porter’s “Anything Goes,” a 1930’s musical comedy, directed by Rupert Barber and designed by Joseph Gardner.
9 p.m.
Open End: Morrison Room
Bruce Burleson

Friday
American Party Rep.

Thursday, May 1
Seniors and concert-goers
10 a.m. Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
April 25
$1.00 otherwise
After Don McLean