Che Davidsonian

“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in the image.”
— Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton, Editor
Andrew Lamas, Executive Editor
Mark Wilensky, Managing Editor

FOUR JANUARY 30, 1975

The Admission Of Sense

As a result of admissions policy, the typical Davidson student, statistically speaking, is a white male, from one of five
southeastern states, and one who has parents who earn over $20,000 annually. Further, he is a member of one of
three Protestant sects and plans to become either a doctor or lawyer. Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds
White admits that Davidson caters to a group of financially elite and that the student body is highly homogenous.

While we are appreciative of Mr. White’s individual efforts in determining admissions and financial aid policy, we call for a
change in the policy-making process. We question not so much the policies that have been in the past, but the
method of policy making itself. Faculty and students should be playing a primary role in establishing admissions and financial aid
guidelines. The business of executing policy decisions should be more equally distributed among all members of the admissions and financial
aid staff.

Desiring a more diverse and interesting student body, we do question the basic issue of southeastern regional dominance. We feel
that the educational experience at Davidson would be enhanced by enrolling a student body with a larger national base. We
urge the administration, faculty, and SGA to jointly devise a policy-making system through which admissions and financial aid issues can
be fairly and adequately treated.

Disconcerted Audiences

The alleged harassment of students and guests at the Midwinters Saturday night dance by Davidson policemen left a sour note
in the ears of students coming from the Dave Brubeck concert. Many students were naturally apprehensive when police attempted to
ferret out non-Davidson students from the private dance in Chambers Banquet Hall. Such a crowd-thinning operation was obviously unnecessary and
particularly undesirable in respect to the ill will incurred.

The situation could have clearly been avoided had the College Union Board been more thorough in the planning and implementation
of its social program. Granted, the newly-elected and organized Union Board was faced with several last-minute crises during their first
big weekend program. The delay of the Brubeck concert and the subsequent late starting time for the dance upset a
well-planned schedule. Nonetheless, the situation could have been effectively handled had board members been prepared to check identifications at the
door of the dance immediately following the concert. Their absence, and the subsequent lack of tact displayed by the police
force resulted in a tense, unsociable experience.

We hope this incident, in itself minor, but significant in the divisiveness it produced in the college community, prompts the
board to practice more caution in implementing future programming. If the College Union is to continue to open campus activities
to the general public, more definite policies must be set to ensure the privacy of restricted gatherings. Even more important
is the privacy of the individuals participating.

In particular, we urge the College Union Board to reconsider its policy of hiring policemen to “chaperone” at dances and
concerts. We suggest that more effective audience conduct control could be exercised through student action. Such a move, we feel,
would not only save money, but save the potential intimidation and harassment of non-student and staff supervision of their own
programs.

Under no circumstances can we tolerate a repeat performance of the Saturday night confusion in the Banquet Hall. We feel
confident that the new board will make a concerted effort to avoid similar discord during future activities.

Eric Walker

Catalytic Scribbler Awakens Dormant, Unenergetic Writers

Writing at Davidson as a subject for discussion strikes my ear like a parody of Women at Yale—something ridiculously mysterious,
curious, and experimental. And without the glamor of females scrambling up Ivy League covered walls. Struggling writers wandering in Piedmont
fog and rain won’t stir Topeka. Yet I have been curious awhile.

Writing at Davidson means discussing the curriculum, but not how it hopes to polish board meeting prose. If you’re at
Davidson and want to write, creatively, what can you do? You surely can sweat it out on your own, and
if it ever gets clicking that’s probably where it will happen. But for companionship, instruction, and possible inspiration, where to
turn?

The English Department has been careful to preserve opportunities for formal instruction in creative writing. In only three of the
past twenty-five years has there been no course offered in creative writing. In addition, students may elect English 296, Independent
Study in Creative Writing, and spend a term with one of a number of professors. In the current term, 12
students are enrolled in English 171, Advanced Writing, while 11 students will be working in English 296 in the spring.
And others will bide their time and scribble alone.

The only concrete obstacles in creative writing, Davidson or anywhere, are material and temporal. Where’s a pen, where’s paper, and
when is there time to wrestle with oneself? The Davidson curriculum provides time for writing. And as a bonus it
supplies a chance to discuss your work with practiced eyes and to hear what other people are producing. Opportunity exists;
response has been gained. Could more be done?

I believe the writing program at Davidson can be prodded, constructively rather than accusingly, because while opportunity exists, attraction does
not. Writing at Davidson is passive. Energy bursts out occasionally, in the freshman writing magazine, in courses, in The Miscellany,
and in a sporadic gathering of writers, both students and teachers, that has been resurrected this year. Too much energy
burns alone, untapped. Unwired.

The tantalizing question is whether or not a personality at the core of a writing program could be a fuse.
Could a writer-in-residence spark greater activity? The question immediately...involves claims of money and workloads that trample the ideal attractiveness of
a creative writer in our midst. The Money Crunch slaps the wrist of any writer who would demand a padded
recognition of his talents from Davidson. Dr. James S. Purcell, Chairman of the English Department, commented that a writer, compared
with other faculty in the department, would "doubtless be the most expensive and touch fewer students." As the student body
has increased, pressure has been placed on the English Department to expand basic offerings such as Freshman English. As Dr.
Purcell noted, "we have more yeomanry needs before we take on a showpiece."

Davidson’s formal writing program is thus left to the direction of the present staff. Students are able to work with
publishing writers on the faculty. The current writing course has been directed for two years by Dr. P.B. Newman, a
publishing poet on the faculty at Queens. Dr. Newman is on campus once a week to work with students who
have been moved to request the assistance.

Is a writer on campus for a term or a year merely a luxury? Would he be a name chosen
for name alone? I can’t say that this wouldn’t be the case if a writer were engaged. The campus and
the temperaments of writers are volatile elements in a compound (check John Updike’s "Bech"). Yet a pool of energy exists
that could result in a few colorful explosions if a reasonable catalyst could be found. A reasonable catalyst would be
a writer with a modest price tag who could fill curriculum gaps in other areas such as contemporary literature. Whether
the creature exists I do not know. I am convinced that a writer as a part of the community could
convey inspiration in ways beyond classroom critiques. The power of personality works strongly in a group of creative temperaments.

The English Department has a standing proposal before the Academic Vice-President for funds for a writer. However, Dr. Purcell observed
that to call this request low priority might be a bit of an exaggeration. The Department is not actively pushing
the proposal. Might I merely request that eyes be kept open for writers who could be attracted within the demands
of funds. As long as feelers are extended and possibilities investigated, then the writing program can proceed at its chosen
pace.

Writing at Davidson can be drawn out from isolated endeavor into community activity. Such a movement would respond to real
needs of a body of students, grounds enough for serious consideration. A writer at Davidson could bomb. Yet another could
perhaps provide the shoves that are needed. It hasn’t been tried and should be as money permits. The writer’s formidable
enemies will remain for solitary combat, and a sluggish curriculum is only an excuse. If one wants to create time
to write, the opportunity does exist, and perhaps that will have to do for these rough and tumble days of
bullet biting.

Anxiety, Fear Cause Scholastic Pressures
By E.F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics

The discussion of the "pressure" on Davidson College students has been on a highly superficial level. The discussion cannot move
to a more fundamental level and reach to the real causes until the "pressure" is correctly identified as anxiety and
fear. On one level the anxiety and fear reflect the inability of higher education to fulfill the role it performed
successfully before World War II. The best discussion of this role, the reasons for and consequences of its demise is
Ch. 7 of David Hapgood’s, "The Screwing of the Average Man" entitled, "Education: Catch-85 and the Arithmetic of the Diploma,"
which every Davidson College student, professor, and administrator should read.

Hapgood notes that "(before World War II) the college diploma was a guarantee of entry into the favored class (i.e.,
the minority who 'end up in the black on net screwing')...(But) when the average man appeared in droves on campus,
after World War II, his very presence in itself destroyed the promise held out to him by college. The promise
was that, since college graduates all get good jobs, more college graduates would mean more people getting good jobs. The
fallacy in the promise is one of arithmetic, similar to the principle of Catch-85, which dictates that all but 15
percent of us must lose out on tax loopholes. If, in an unequal society like ours, there are 15 percent
who end up in the black on net screwing, there can never be room at the top for more than
15 percent of the population--no matter how many go to college. If only 15 percent go to college, then the
system works, and everyone with a diploma finds himself on the sunny side of the street. But if 30 percent
get the diploma, only half of them can cash in on its promise. The rest will be headed off at
the pass."

This changed situation not only explains, in part, the anxiety and fear of students, but also goes a long way
toward explaining the current reluctance of many professors to "give" C’s and D’s (students are usually "given" grades; seldom are
grades "earned"), a tendency which has been deplored by The Wall Street Journal as a "lowering of standards." There was
a time when it seemed only "natural" that grades always fitted the normal probability curve--even if one had to make
them fit. It did not matter much, because such a small percentage of the population went to college that even
though the "C" students did not get into the "best" graduate schools, everyone readily got into a graduate school. Medical
schools did not have hundreds of applications and controlling the supply of doctors was as easy as falling off a
log.

On a deeper and more fundamental level the anxiety and fear are more important, even though the source cannot be
recognized as (See page 30)
