Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Life/work planning Wood questions educational goals of a life-affirmer, helping anyone interested in becoming involved in that world in a
more total manner than is ordinarily possible on campus. "A basic principle around which we organize our activities is openness
to a variety of experiences, cultures, and stimulating human beings. We can send out feelers to much more of the
world than we have traditionally, particularly on a campus that tends to be homogenous. We need to be open to
other influences than those which are dominant here; I try to communicate to students that the whole world is available,
that we can take control of our lives and grasp those qualities which make us truly alive."

"I would like to see this institution become a place that increasingly turns people on to their own unique abilities
and personal initiatives. It is neat that we have the library and the union programs, but equally important are transactions
with the rest of the world. That active interface is vital, so that students get out and participate rather than
just thinking."

Wood believes that an adequate model for education is action followed by reflection; in any case, action should not be
divorced from reflection. He draws an example from his current hobby: "If you try to learn about biking by reading
a book about it, you end up incapable and lacking enthusiasm. On the other hand, if you get out and
ride first, you can come back and read avidly about the problems and joys of cycling. I would like to
expose people to the color of life—to the sounds and the feel, so that students here won’t have to merely
intellectualize about what concept of love; love is a means to creativity."

He sees his role at Davidson By JOYCE STAHMANN Staff Writer Ken Wood believes that academic learning is important, but
that off-campus involvements with human problems are also vital to fulfillment. Wood does not like the word "career." To him
it connotes that there is a niche or mold that a person must find and fill, whereas he sees vocation
as more a creative process. "Work is that which you use to actualize yourself," said Wood, "and this may include
various occupational settings in one lifetime. In as much as we strive for new forms in the world, we create
ourselves. The concept of creating is more basic even than the Vol. LXVI, No. FOUR Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
October 10, 1975 Patterson Court cuts back, houses must fight for funds By SCOTT REID Staff Writer The Patterson Court
Council (PCC) will be reformed this year because of two new factors: the tight money situation generally and the opening
of the Grey Union building specifically. At the beginning of last year, the PCC had an unusually large budget with
which to work. There was the $14,000 allocated for '74-'75 plus $2,000 left over from the year before. Nonetheless, that
budget was over-spent by about $1200. The deficit was discovered at the end of last year when Emanon fraternity needed
to replace its refrigerator. That money has been taken out of the PCC’s '75-'76 budget, a budget that had already
been cut by $2,000 by the college for economic reasons. The council begins this year with less funds than usual,
about $10,000. The PCC was formed in 1970 to appropriate money to the fraternity houses for furniture, equipment, furnishings, and
repairs to the same. It is also supposed to coordinate the fraternities and the college, and work for a better
atmosphere on the court. The latter function has been largely ignored in the past. "In the past, council members would
say, 'Well, let that"House have the money they’ve asked for to repair their bar, and next month they’ll let us
have the money we need for a new ping-pong table,” said Jeff Neikirk, President of the PCC. “Being as tight
as it is, it will be interesting to see each house fight for its share.” Neikirk, who admits that “This
year, with money the PCC has been very loosely run in the past,” has worked on some new ideas with
Robert Currie, College Business Manager, on how the funds should be allocated to the houses this year. “Our main idea
is to get a set of guidelines down on paper that will show what the PCC will fund for the
houses and what the houses must supply for themselves.

“Our two suggestions for yearly allowances are these: three dollars per person in each house for silverware, plates, and other
flatware plus an additional $200-250 per house for general repairs and furnishings. Currie wants the council to keep charge of
these allowances,” said Neikirk. These two allowances would deplete the PCC budget by about $5,000, leaving an equal amount on
reserve for large expenditures that cannot be foreseen at this time, such as the replacement of refrigerators, stoves, and other
essential equipment. Currie has decided that he must keep a closer watch this year on the PCC’s budget because it
was overspent this year. In particular, he is insisting that he have final approval on all expenditures by the PCC.
“This has always supposed to have been the procedure in the past,” said Currie. “I’ve had the whole thing spelled
out this year because it appears that last year’s overspending resulted from the PCC’s not following this procedure.”

From now on, all capital items must be purchased through the college. The college is sales-tax exempt and can often
buy equipment from wholesalers for less than the non-tax exempt fraternities can. Each item to be replaced (i.e., stove, refrigerator,
TV, etc.) must be inspected by the College Engineer to see if it cannot be repaired for less. (See CURRIE,
page 3)

First Speaker: Gordon Widenhouse

“It’s like,” he said. (See Wood, page 2)

-Leon Venable placed second in the John Hopkins Invitational Debate Tournament.

Debate team ranks second in Johns Hopkins Tourney
By LYMAN COLLINS
Staff Writer

“I was ecstatic with the results,” commented debate captain Gordon Widenhouse on the team’s finish in the recent twenty-sixth annual
Johns Hopkins Invitational Debate Tournament. Widenhouse, along with team member Mark Gergen, finished the tournament losing in the final round
to Catholic University. In the eight preliminary rounds, Davidson finished with a 5-3 record.

Seeded twelfth of the top sixteen teams in the elimination rounds, the Widenhouse-Gergen team upset sixth-seeded University of Richmond in
the octa-final round. Continuing to the quarter-finals, the team upset William and Mary. After beating Scranton University in the semi-finals,
they went on to lose to Catholic with a two-one decision on the part of the judges.

“I think this goes a long way in proving that the Davidson debate program is reaching a high level in
debate competition,” continued Widenhouse. He said that Davidson had always done well in the “Carolina Circuit” that is area competition.
Some consider the Hopkins Invitational in the top twenty debate tournaments in the country. “By far this is the best
Davidson has done in a tournament of this quality,” observed Widenhouse.

With this competition under their belts, the debate team is looking forward to the Wake Forest Junior Varsity Tournament on
October 24-26. This competition is one of the largest of its kind in the southeast. Davidson is hoping to take
four two-man teams to this tournament.
