the davidsonian

December 5, 1975

8
Tripping the

Nocturnal travelers of Main Street beat the system. However, those who can't wait for the ‘greening of Davidson’ may find themselves in the red.

[Editor’s note: The Davidsonian does not advocate lawlessness; we hope the following formula, however, is of interest.]

One of the most annoying aspects of life in our local village is trying to drive through Davidson at night.

Except for the afternoon rush hour, Davidson’s traffic is never very heavy. After 8:30 p.m. or so, it is very possible to drive through town without passing any other cars at all. Yet, in the one-quarter mile stretch of Main Street downtown, there are no less than four traffic lights—a formidable barrier to anyone who would prefer to travel more than 3 m.p.h.

“The Gentle One”

The light at Main and the road to I-77, at the entrance to the parking lot behind Cunningham Fine Arts Building, is the most merciful of the four traffic lights. If there is no other traffic, a driver approaching the light from I-77 or from the Cunningham parking lot will find ‘The Gentle One’ red, but will trip it green and be on his way in a couple of seconds.

For all of the drivers on Main Street, ‘The Gentle One’ will always be green (again, assuming no interfering traffic). Davidson students find this traffic light to be green and highly reasonable almost every time.

At first, the light at the other end of town also appears to be quite reasonable. (There is an obvious purpose for the light there.) The intersection of the road up to the Elementary School and Main Street is probably the most confusing and dangerous intersection in town.

Also, it is sometimes a good idea to slow down traffic from Cornelius before it cruises into the congested area of town—but this can’t be much of a factor at night when there is no other traffic. Still, there is almost no way for Cornelius traffic to beat this light and then the next one, even at night. It guards the hallowed avenues of campus well, and thus its nickname, ‘St. Pete.’

“Peter” religiously follows a timed sequence for its changes from red to green and back. This light is untrippable. Of course, many times the driver from the south will find it green. The only trouble is, when this light is green, the one at Concord Road will usually be red. Only if he hits ‘St. Peter’ right after it has switched from red to green will the driver hit the next lights green as well.

Peter principle

Whether you hit the light at this fortunate moment is a matter of sheer luck. On the other hand, if you happen to hit ‘Peter’ red, the best policy, even if you are impatient, is to wait for it to turn green. By then accelerating up to about 40 m.p.h., you should hit the light at Concord Road yellow and the next two lights green. This may not work for slower cars. (This is, of course, not recommended if police cars are in open sight.) You can be sure of this because these next two lights are locked into their patterns: they can’t be tripped either.

Detour

The intersection at Concord Road is notable in that, coming from the south, right turns are always permitted. Some students maintain that, if you hit ‘Peter’ late in one of its green rotations, and then find the Concord Road light red, you can save time by taking a right and then coming in the back door to the campus through Jackson Court. If you choose to stick to the Main route to campus, and wait through the red at Concord Street, you will probably just hit the next light red as well.

“Meetze’s Mealticket”

It is this next light, at Depot Street, which is perhaps the most irritating of them all. It serves little purpose in terms of traffic. It has been said that its sole purpose is to stop motorists and visitors where they will get the prettiest impression of the campus’s appearance, and thus its nickname, ‘Meetze’s Mealticket.’

However, as pointed out above, coming from the south you can be sure of hitting it green or of having avoided it at Concord Street. Neither is ‘Meetze’s Mealticket’ much of a problem coming from the Main Street campus exit.

If you hit this light red, by pretending that it’s a blinking red light (‘Blinking my eyelids a lot usually convinces me,’ said one student) and going on through the intersection after checking for traffic, the Concord Road light and St. Peter will both be green. If patrol cars are watching the road you may prefer to restrain your imagination.

However, with the right attitude, the four lights in Davidson need not be a headache so much of the time after all.