December 12, 1975

A)

the davidsonian |

‘My main task is clearing Dracula’s name’

Florescu reveals Dracula’s cryptic Romanian heroics

By GIL CUTHBERTSON
Staff Writer

Radu Florescu’s notoriety as an authority on Dracula means that wherever he goes people expect him to be wearing a black cape and brandishing his fangs.

Florescu does not fit the traditional role of a “Dracula” any more than does the historical Romanian count that Florescu has made the subject of his book, The Search For Dracula.

As a result, people were surprised to see the Boston College professor without his cape and fangs on campus this week to speak about scholarship about “Dracula.”

How did Florescu get involved with the process of tracking Dracula down?

“I have always been utterly fascinated by history and especially with field work and research which I love. So when another member of the Boston College faculty approached me about the possibilities of studying Dracula, I jumped at the chance,” said Florescu.

“Vampire” a hero

Florescu sees one of his main tasks to be the clearing of Dracula’s name.

“Count Dracula was sort of a Robin Hood character to his fellow Romanians. Most people never suspect that there actually was a Dracula but he was actually a national hero. I must stress that the actual Dracula was not a vampire,” said Florescu.

Even with a schedule of lectures across the nation and his teaching duties at Boston College, Florescu still finds time to explore.

“I feel a professor should do something besides go to his classroom. I like to go to the place where history happened. Of course,” explained Florescu, “now I get money from my book which is doing very well, and lectures, but I roamed around long before I had any money.”

Frightening conclusions

The search for history where it happened is not without problems. Florescu’s attempt to discover Dracula’s castle in the Romanian mountains caused many problems, some of which seem almost supernatural.

“We had a lot of trouble in the search for Dracula’s castle,” said Florescu. “My uncle was hurt very seriously when he fell into a ravine and all of us on the search were afflicted with some sickness.

“The Romanians were very helpful to us, which sort of surprised me. There was a lot of red tape though,” said Florescu.

Although Florescu does not believe that his investigation party to Dracula’s castle was cursed, he does admit to feeling a certain unsettling air about the place.

“The people in Romania are still very superstitious and believe that vampires do exist. I don’t subscribe to these beliefs, but when we visited the castle, I could feel something, something unnatural and completely different about the place,” said Florescu.

Florescu’s concern that historical mysteries be solved has driven him beyond his study of Dracula. He has written The Search For Frankenstein, which attempts to get to the basis for Mary Shelly’s novel. He is now at work on his next book, The Search For Bluebeard.

The neck of time: Florescu spoke

-Roger Grange

Monday of his ‘Search for Dracula.’

... McArthur expresses

(continued from page 9)
been no continuity in recent Y leadership, McArthur expressed interest in planning meetings and functions of the entire staff “to allow fellowship among Y Board members. One of the basic principles of the Christian name in the organization title denoted openness--the Y is not a clique or specific group keeping other people out.

“We want to make student involvement in the Y and the Davidson community as easy as possible. We’re open to all,” said McArthur. “We stand as the middle ground between the College Union and the Davidson Christian Fellowship.”

The new cabinet expressed hopes of establishing a strong community program in the Depot. “I think the depot is the link of Davidson College students with the extra-college community. We need to be better informed of needs and wants in the community, however, before establishing a Depot program,” said McArthur.

“The Depot’s kind of like a church. It just sits there empty except for once a week. At least we don’t air condition or heat the building, though.”

Careers in communications

An informal meeting of students interested in careers in communications will take place Tuesday, Dec. 16, at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room, according to Experiential Programs Director Ken Wood.

Guests include Mark Brown of the International Association of Business Communicators. Refreshments will be served.

Friday, Dec. 12
8 & 10:30 P.M.

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

BOB & CAROL & TED & ALICE

Love

$1.00

N.C. FELLOWS
NOW RECEIVING APPLICATIONS

Due by Friday, Dec. 19
At Dr. Kelton’s Office
B16 Chambers

DISCUSSION OF SEVERAL OF LAST SUMMER’S INTERNSHIPS

Monday, Dec. 15
7:15 P.M. 900 Room
Open To All Interested