November 7, 1975

The Davidsonian

Students Who’s Who in American Universities and Colleges

Mary Lyon Booth
Mark William Deaton
Martin Daniel Eakes
John Berry Guthrie, III
Larry D. Hardaway
Derry Harper
Robert William Hoag
Andrew Theodore Lamas
Frazier Wyatt Marsh
Robert Lee Mendenhall
John Warner Munce
Jeffrey Alden Neikirk
Jonathan Scott Perry
William Preston Reed
Scott Duncan Reid
Eppa Rixey, IV
Richard Gary Roylance
Martha Winston Royster
Emelia Dean Stuart
Bradley Dean Swalwell
Joel Randall Tew
William Josephus Vaughan, Jr.
Richard Ernst Wassen
Milton Gordon Widenhouse, Jr.
Mark Steven Wilensky
Edward Lee Willingham, IV

Forum tries to bridge communication gap
By LYMAN COLLINS
Staff Writer

“One of the major problems on campus is that students rarely, if ever, get together in one group. There is
a real lack of communication on campus,” said Roger Brown, newly elected chairman of the Inter-Organizational Forum. The Forum sets
out to bring together many campus organizations including Patterson Court Council, SGA Senate, Black Student Coalition, the Union Board, The
Davidsonian, WDAV, and the YM/YWCA.

“This group was established to provide better means of communication and organization among the students on campus. It was set
up not to be an action group because we don’t have any powers, but we can be a pressure group.
We’re really more or less a group to bring about action or recommend action,” said Brown.

One of the Forum's most obvious accomplishments so far this year was the coordination of homecoming planning between Patterson Court
Council and the College Union Board. Another matter brought before the forum recently was student elections. Elections here have been
notoriously low-keyed, with poor voter turnout. Often the candidates don't know what they are getting into. The Forum has arranged
with The Davidsonian to run profiles on the various candidates providing their views as well as a photograph of each
candidate. The SGA Senate suspended its By-Laws, moving back election filing dates to make this technically possible. WDAV has also
been encouraged to interview them on the air. Hereafter, the candidates will gather before the election to learn exactly what
the office entails.

“The biggest thing, though,” observed Brown, “is having The Davidsonian give publicity to everyone who runs. That has already been
agreed upon.”

Plans are now under way to discuss student evaluation of professors. “There has been a lot of complaints about SIR
(Student Instructional Report) forms as they stand now,” said Brown. These forms are filled out at exams to evaluate professors.
The Union’s proposed new Video-Beam Projector is also slated to come under discussion.

The Forum, brainchild of Karl Goodhouse, was formed last year. “Karl talked to me and several others and we all
thought it was a good idea,” recalled Brown. Goodhouse recently resigned as chairman, mainly because of a lack of time.
After a reorganizational meeting, Brown was chosen to succeed him. “Everyone has a pretty good spirit about it. Everyone feels
like it’s useful,” said Brown. “The thing we need now most of all is acceptance by the students and the
organizations.”We represent and just need a bit more time to discover what kind of influence we’re going to have,” Brown
said.

Bond, Crawford challenge extended studies ruling

By BILL BARNES
Copy Editor

The full faculty will review at its next meeting a decision made by the Curriculum and Executive Committees. The decision
concerns whether an Extended Studies project may be used to fulfill an area requirement for graduation. So far, the Curriculum
and Executive Committees have refused to allow an Extended Study done by seniors Bill Bond and Rory Crawford to fulfill
an area requirement.

Course content

Bond and Crawford feel that this judgment was made, not out of a consideration of the content of the course,
but on its name. Originally conceived as an Independent Study, the two seniors’ work in computer programming under Dr. Jerry
A. Roberts was labeled Extended Studies and will not qualify as an area requirement course, said Registrar Richard Clyde Burts,
Jr. “It was conceived as a program to be undertaken above and beyond course requirements, and we cannot give area
requirement credits for it.”

Bond and Crawford maintain, with Director of Extended Studies Hansford M. Epes, Jr., that this case presents certain extenuating circumstances
which warrant its review.

Physics 23

Among these are their exclusion, first through lack of places and later through a new policy which bars seniors from
taking it, from Physics 23, and the fact that nowhere within student grasp does the hard-and-fast ruling that Extended Studies
may not count towards area requirement fulfillment exist. According to both Burts and Epes, the ruling exists in the faculty
minutes only. Both seniors and Epes find this a failing. It is not stated in the students’ contract with the
college, the catalogue under which Bond and Crawford entered, nor in the present one that an Extended Study cannot be
used as an area requirement course.

Bond and Crawford question whether “students are to be held to rules and decisions written in records not open to
them,” and question what a student’s contract with the College actually consists of. Were the course name changed from Extended
Study to Independent Study, assigned a number, or otherwise declared an official part of the curriculum, it would be allowed
to stand. It is this that makes the seniors feel they have been judged solely on the “Catch-22” that the
name of their project was Extended Studies.

Burts holds that the Registrar’s Office “cannot accept Extended Studies. It would start a flood of requests, which we already
have too many of. We've told, say, 300 students this couldn’t be done. The difference is that these two aren’t
satisfied.”

“I have no control over the decision of the full faculty,” he continued, “BUT I expect their conclusion will reflect
those already made. I don’t expect any surprises.”

Come join us at our extraordinary Quality Paperback Book Sale. Outstanding current and back list titles from America’s leading publishers.
This is a sale booklovers can’t afford to miss. Starts Monday at the STUDENT STORE. Save 40% off cover price.
