Spencer, Currie Predict Tuition Hike
By JOHN WOOD
Staff Writer

A $300 tuition increase for 1975-76 was projected by College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. “Board fees could increase as much as $35,” announced Business Manager Robert Currie. The Board of Trustees will consider the adoption of these fee increases on February 21. Recommendations concerning faculty and staff salary increases, psychological counseling, and athletic expenditures were discussed at the meeting.

“I propose an across-the-board increase of 10 percent in faculty and staff salaries,” said Dean of the Center for Honors Studies Earl MacCormac. For those staff members earning less than $9,000 a year, MacCormac urged salary increases of more than 10 percent. MacCormac also recommended the adoption of an aggressive five-year fund-raising plan and that additional faculty be secured to maintain Davidson’s academic standards.

“Increased funds should be allotted for student psychological services,” said SGA President John Munce. Comptroller Robert Davidson assured Munce that his request would be included in the budget committee report. Several students present at the budget meeting questioned the need for mandatory laundry fees during the 1975-76 school year.

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
January 23, 1975

Harris’ ‘New Populism’ Damns Centralized Political Powers
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
News Editor

Monopolistic industry is running the government of the United States, according to Senator Fred Roy Harris, a Democrat from Oklahoma and a visiting Woodrow Wilson Fellow this week at Davidson. “I am now a candidate for the presidency in 1976,” said Harris. “There has to be a widespread diffusion of economic and political power instead of concentrated political power,” he said. Harris feels that the country is run by a very few who have their own interests at heart. He hopes to change this situation through his candidacy for president.

“I am presently a professor at American University in Washington. I have not served in the Senate since 1972, and I feel I’ve benefited from my sabbatical from the Senate. I wouldn’t get back into political life except that I want to mean something to this country and politics is what I know best. People ought to govern themselves. Government ought to look after the interests of the average family instead of big business and the super-rich,” said Harris.

Harris believes that the big lesson that this country can learn from Watergate is that economics do enter into politics in an influential role. “People now see that they are being victimized by big money. The super-rich have used their money to dominate politics,” said Harris. Due to Watergate and related incidents, Harris believes that the government is ready to return to the people. “The Campaign Financing Law is the biggest piece of political activity in my lifetime. It provides for the federal government to match campaign funds of candidates in the primaries. This will free the average man, like myself, to run for office,” said Harris.

Harris has a 4-fold plan for returning government to the average man. He intends to initiate these changes if elected President. First, Harris proposes a graduated income tax with a massive tax cut of between 20 and 28 billion dollars for the low and middle-income man, stair-stepping to a tax increase for the very rich. These tax reforms would include a graduated tax for industry. Secondly, Harris would place controls on monopolistic industry in an effort to curtail unfair price-fixing by virtual monopolies in the steel, energy, and food industries. Third, Harris plans vigorous enforcement of anti-trust laws. “If monopolies were broken up, and not allowed to form as they have, prices would come down naturally by about 20 percent.” Harris’ fourth proposal is for a public service job program. This would give more people money to spend, according to Harris. “We could pay people to build housing as easily as we can keep 150,000 troops in Europe. We could employ people in building schools, rebuilding our cities, in building anti-pollution devices. We don’t need to have a wasteful Defense Budget as a WPA project,” said Harris.

Harris sought the Democratic Party nomination in ’72 unsuccessfully. His thoughts then were much the same as they are today in the sense that then and now he defines his kind of politics as “The New Populism.” “We’re going back to people responding to people’s needs and to an assumption that people are smart enough to govern themselves. It is a movement to get people involved. The government right now needs...a change. It is run in an elitist and secretive manner. "For instance, now, Dr. Kissinger almost runs the foreign policy by himself in a secretive manner," said Harris. Harris believes that a very few control the whole of American politics. "Just to give you an idea,

Friday, January 24
8 p.m. Concert: Lori Jacobs
A singer and writer recording on Capitol, Lori Jacobs plays both guitar and piano. She is backed up by guitarist, Ron Lefko.

8 & 10:30 p.m. Popular Film: "Deliverance"
John Boorman’s taut portrait of survival and violence immediately follows the concert.

Saturday, January 25
2 p.m. Basketball: The Citadel
8 p.m. Concert: "Two Generations of Brubeck"
In two decades of composing and performing, Dave Brubeck has made a name as one of the best in experimental jazz. His innovations include the synthesis of the jazz combo and the symphony orchestra. In 1967, he disbanded the Dave Brubeck Quartet to pursue serious composition, but now is back on tour with his sons.

10 p.m. Dance: Banquet Hall "Seventh of May"
12-2 a.m. Folk Groups: Rathskellar "California English"
2 a.m. Breakfast: Richards House

Sunday, January 26
11 a.m. Worship Service: DCPC

own 80 percent of the individually held corporate stocks and 90 percent of the individually held corporate bonds. "35 percent of the American industries with four or more firms control 70 percent in sales in their area.

"To compound the problem, utilities offer what they call promotional rates so that the more, say electricity, that is used, the less it costs. Industries that use the most electricity and are therefore the biggest, pay less for that electricity.

"When a few corporations control their respective markets, the law of supply and demand doesn’t work. We citizens cannot participate in price decisions because of monopoly control. In the past, this kind of economic power has translated into political power," said Harris.

"The centralization of money and power in a few hands is the greatest economic issue today. Our primary international problem is the domination of multi-national corporations.

"The great social issue of our time is the fact that blue-collar, working people, like you and me, are having difficulty finding jobs while people like Nelson Rockefeller, who has never worked a day in his life and doesn’t need to, run the country." - Fred Harris

"Since the laundry is no longer operating at a deficit, why can’t laundry services be offered to students on a voluntary basis?" one student asked.

"If voluntary, it seems that the laundry would operate on a deficit," replied Currie.

During the current year, the laundry is operating on an income budget of $165,835. The projected earnings for the laundry in the academic fiscal year of 1975-76 is $194,000. Estimating an enrollment of 1250 students in 1975-76, the expected income budget from students is $3,026,180. These earnings represent an increase of $193,500 above the present income from students of $2,832,680.

"The rise in expected earnings is due to the increased enrollment projected for next year," said Davidson.

Concerned over the increase in the athletic budget, many of the faculty members present desired a department allocation breakdown.

"What is the amount earmarked for physical education?" asked MacCormac. He also wondered how many students were attending such classes as handball and squash.

"We have requested more money in an effort to give support to the minor sports. In the past, they have often been neglected," explained Director of Athletics Thomas A. Cartmill.

Another factor in boosting the athletic budget concerned increased transportation costs. Over half a million dollars was requested for the 1975-76 athletic budget. That figure ($507,198) represents an increase of $70,172 over the present budget of $437,026.

Another pertinent topic of discussion was financial aid to students. Although aid to students will increase next year, the number of students receiving scholarship aid will decrease.

Committee Chairperson and Professor of Economics Robert Avinger reminded the attendants that the budget meeting was designed only to answer questions and to hear recommendations. Approximately 40 members of the faculty and staff and 10 students were present at the budget meeting.