February 6, 1975

The Davidsonian

Nine (Photo by Pete Goodman)

On The Path To Victory
Eppa Rixey stretches toward the basket in the Richmond game at Johnston Gym. Davidson won, 103-79.

The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Chuck Kennon
Sports Editor

Frank Stiefel
Assistant Sports Editor

Catamounts Edge Cats As Decisions Run Close

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

Last Friday night, the Davidson wrestlers went down to the wire against Western Carolina. The contest was not decided until
the final match. Going into the heavyweight match, the Cats trailed 22-16. A pin by Jack Summe would have tied
the match. Summe was not able to defeat his heavier opponent, and the grapplers dropped their sixth dual meet by
the score of 28-16. Parker termed the match “a good one to watch, but a disappointing one to lose.”

The loss to Western Carolina ended the Cats' hopes for a winning season. Mike Dosal started the Cats off with
a 12-1 superior decision. Dosal has been wrestling well in the last few matches according to his teammates. Brian Jacobs
and Glenn Bollard both lost superior decisions. These two losses put Davidson behind 8-4. Captain Bob Jacobs, who was wrestling
with a painful hip injury, rode his man to victory. Jacobs was awarded one point riding time. This one point
gave Jacobs a 5-4 victory. Jacobs’ record now stands at 8 and 3.

Riding time was important in the 150 lb. clash, also. Mark Scandling received one point riding time which enabled him
to pull out a 10-10 tie. In his 158 lb. bout, Bob Price came from behind to defeat his opponent
8-5. Ralph Holloway destroyed his foe by the lopsided score of 15-2. Ralph’s win put the Cats ahead by a
margin of six points. The Catamounts quickly tied the match, as Roger Brown was pinned. Brown, a freshman, is wrestling
in a class 10 lbs. over his weight, and has had the misfortune of wrestling the best wrestlers on the
opposing team several times this year. The Wildcats forfeited the 190 lb. weight, and this put the Catamounts ahead by
the score of 22-16.

In the last match, Jack Summe was beaten by the same move twice. The second time his heavier opponent got
a pin out of the move. Parker felt that had Summe not been caught by the same move a second
time, he might have pinned his tired opponent. Tonight the Cats travel to South Carolina. The Cats will be seeking
their third dual meet win. The wrestlers do not know much about their opponents.

IF YOU LET A FRIEND DRIVE DRUNK, YOU'RE NO FRIEND.

‘Aggressive Play’ Sparks Cats In Richmond, WVU Efforts

By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff Writer

Davidson’s basketball team bounced back after its worst home defeat ever to almost win a rugged away game and then
win big in a home Southern Conference contest. The big loss for the Wildcats came at the hands of the
Duke Blue Devils at the Coliseum. When the smoke had cleared, Duke was a clear winner 113-76. Davidson attempted to
keep up with the pace of the A.C.C. team, and it looked at the half as if they might be
able to do it, as Duke only led 46-40. Duke, however, exploded early in the second half and built up
a huge lead. This was the first game in which Davidson attempted consciously to run with the opposition. The Blue
Devils shot a phenomenal 64 percent from the field for the game. They were led by senior guard Kevin Billerman
who tallied 22 points. Four other Duke players scored in double figures, including Bob Fleischer who also added 18 rebounds.
Davidson, on the other hand, shot only 40 percent from the field. The Davidson scoring was headed by Larry Horowitz
and Greg Dunn who both had 18 points. Tom Verlin also pitched in 12 points.

Davidson then left on that sour note and headed for Morgantown, West Virginia to play West Virginia University. Davidson had
never beaten the Mountaineers at their mountain home, and this did not look as if it would be the time.
Davidson played well in the first half after being down as much as 9 and only trailed 47-44 at the
intermission. A forward for each team dominated the first half as Stan Boskovich from WVU had 18 and Larry Horowitz
had 14. The Wildcats surged at the beginning of the second half and went ahead by as much as 7
at 64-57. The Mountaineers had never given up and came back to win 97-92.

‘The Farmworkers are asking you to boycott Gallo wines. Please help. United Farm Workers of America (AFL-CIO)

Ninety-two points by Davidson was the most that the Wildcats had scored in a single game all year. Head coach
Bo Brickels said that “a couple of lapses let it get away from us” and that was the story of
the game. The leading scorer for the game was StanBoskovich, who scored 40, 16 of which came from the foul
line. Horowitz led Davidson with 29 points. He was followed in the scoring by Jay Powell, Tom Verlin, and Kevin
Doherty, who had 15, 14, and 12 respectively. Davidson then came back home for a game against the Richmond Spiders,
who had beaten the Cats 67-62 back in December. Davidson again came out running, but this time everything went right,
as the Wildcats won 103-79. Davidson built up a big lead in the first half, and then Richmond ran off
14 points to tie the score. According to assistant coach Harry Krohn, it was “a letdown of the defense that
hurt Davidson.” When asked about the new running style which Davidson has adopted, Krohn said that it is not much
different, but that Davidson is now “advancing the ball up the floor and hitting the open man.” Krohn also stated
that theoretically this is the way the coaches wanted the team to play in '75. Davidson has “loosened up offensively”
and the team is not as “plan conscious.” Krohn also said that before this, Davidson was too “robotish.” One player
that has been helped by Davidson's new loose style is Horowitz, who against Richmond again hit 29 points. This leaves
him only 64 points shy of 1,000 points in his career. Dunn hit his 1,000th against Notre Dame earlier this
year. Against Richmond, Davidson’s two big men, Eppa Rixey and Sheldon Parker, accounted for 21 points and 17 rebounds between
them. Krohn attributed the big men’s play to their being “more aggressive every time out on the floor” and “they
went after the boards.” Jay Powell and Dunn also hit double figures for the Wildcats as the team hit on
58.8 percent of their shots from the field. Davidson would like to continue the style of play they had against
Richmond when they take on East Carolina at Greenville tomorrow night. East Carolina handed Davidson its worst Johnston Gym defeat
ever three weeks ago, and the Cats hope to turn the tables on them. Davidson needs to win the E.C.U.
game to still have a chance at playing the first round of the Southern Conference tournament at home.

Wouldn't you rather come with us? Last year over 200,000 students summered in Europe. And the travel-wise flew on charters
because it costs about HALF! This year a 3-6 week ticket to London is $512; 2-3 weeker $597. And it’s
$767 from New York. (That's what the airlines say now. Last year there were two unforecast increases!) Not only do
you fly with us at half, but you can just about pick your choice of dates for 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10 week durations during the summer. And all you have to do to qualify is reserve your
seat now by sending a $100 deposit, plus $10 registration fee. Under recently new U.S. Government regulations, we must submit
all flight participants' names and full payment sixty days before each flight. If you take the June 21 - August
19 flight to London, for example, just one price reserves your departure date, seat, and flight ($15 extra season surcharge).
By April 15 you send the $199 balance. Just one price for flights whether you pick a week in the
regular fare airlines or not. So send for our complete schedule, or to be sure of your reservation now, mail
your deposit for one of our 3 to 5 weekly departures from June through September. Just specify the week you
want to travel and for how long. You will receive your exact date confirmation and receipt by return mail. All
our flights are via fully certified U.S. Government standard jets and all first-class service. From London, there are many frequent
departures and connections to all parts of the Continent, often at 2/3 off the regular fare.

REPUBLIC AIR SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL
663 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10022
800-223-5389 (TOLL FREE)

Charter flying is the biggest bargain in air travel today.

CAMP THUNDERBIRD
Counselor Opportunities

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them
in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual
child develop to his or her fullest potential should apply. Camp Thunderbird, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C., is
an A.C.A. accredited camp member, specializing in the water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis
is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white water canoeing, and
tripping are extras in an excellent program. For further information write or call G. William Climer Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird,
Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).
