October 3, 1975

The Davidsonian

Defense back Mike Harding attempts to intercept a Keydet pass after blocking out the VMI receiver.

Cats mauled by Keydets face Guilford Saturday

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

Ronnie Moore took the opening kickoff 89 yards for a Keydet touchdown, and the momentum never ended as the VMI
Keydets swamped Davidson by a score of 55-0 in the homecoming game at Lexington, Virginia. VMI, now 1-2, displayed the
talent and strength which many feel will carry them to a second straight Southern Conference Championship. The Keydet offense, led
by quarterback Mark Lambert and running back Andre Gibson, rolled up 412 yards total offense against a Davidson defense, which
spent more than its share of the game on the field. The VMI defense, led by reserve end Steve Lawrence
and back-up linebacker John Hobbs, held the young Wildcat offense to only 42 yards total offense. Davidson started three freshmen
on the offensive unit and played a total of seven freshmen, all of whom were backfield men except for tight
end Larry Crees.

“After viewing the VMI films, we saw some bright spots to build on and we still plan to be a
good football team,” said Davidson head coach Ed Farrell. “One of the bright spots was our determination to play when
the game was out of reach. We held our own physically, but were out-techniqued.”

The Davidson Wildcats, still smarting from last week’s 55-0 loss to VMI, will try to turn things around when they
face Guilford in their home opener Saturday.

Brickels initiates sports study hall

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Staff Writer

After a strong recruiting season, head basketball coach Bo Brickels is faced with the problem of helping his freshman players
adjust to the Davidson academic program. As a result, the coaching staff has formulated a new academic program to make
sure the players can handle both their school work and basketball practice. All players except seniors have a group study
session for two hours Sunday through Thursday and have been urged by the coaches to keep class cuts to a
minimum. The basketball staff is also keeping in communication with the players’ professors to check for possible problems in the
classroom. It is Brickels’ philosophy that if a player does well in his school work, he will be a better
athlete. “We believe there is a strong carry-over between what happens in the class and what happens in the gym.
The biggest thing is getting the guys used to setting aside some time for studying,” he said.

Previously, the coaching staff had not closely followed the players' academic careers. In fact, last year Kevin Dougherty did not
meet freshman composition requirements and had to do so during the summer. “If I had used this program last year
I would have known about Kevin and could have done something to help him,” pointed out Brickels. “Also, if there
were just a few freshmen involved we probably would just pick some of the players and suggest that they study
at a certain time. But it’s important that the...Freshmen understand how to study and realize how much time it takes.”
Other colleges will often provide tutors for their athletes who are having difficulty in their studies. But Brickels sees no
need for this policy at Davidson. If a player does well academically, completing the year with a GPA of 3.00
or better, he will not be required to attend the group study sessions the following year.

Organized practice is not allowed by NCAA regulations until October 15, so Brickels has his team involved in a conditioning
program of long-distance running, sprints, and weight lifting. One notable exception from the conditioning program is senior guard Jay Powell,
who is on probation until the end of the fall quarter. He will miss five weeks of practice, and how
he fits into plans for the season is not definite. “All of our plans have Jay in the background,” said
Brickels, “and he is uppermost in our thinking. But we’re not going to spoil ourselves by waiting five weeks until
he returns.”

An integral part of both the study and training programs is the idea of the players working as a group
and getting to know one another even before practice starts.

For the Cooler Weather:
- Jac-Shirts
- Flannel Shirts
- Turtlenecks
- Crewnecks

Kickoff for this non-conference game is 2 p.m. at Richardson Field. While the Wildcats were having their troubles in Virginia,
Guilford was improving its record to 3-1 with a 17-6 win over powerful Elon. In last year’s contest, the Quakers
defeated Davidson by a score of 31-14 on their way to a 6-3-2 record, which included a Poultry Bowl victory
over William Penn of Iowa.

Guilford’s offense is led by halfback Billy Whitley, who rushed for more than 800 yards in 1974, and tackle Steve
Musulin, a Little All-American candidate. Their defense is led by middle guard Bunky James, a 1974 all-Carolinas Conference choice. “We
learned to respect them last year,” remarked Davidson head coach Ed Farrell. “James is as good a defensive player as
we will see all year. Whitley is a real threat in a balanced offense.

“We know we will be in a tough football game,” Farrell added. “Our primary concern is to correct as many
mistakes as we can and to be in the thick of things Saturday.”

The Wildcats will open with the same lineup as last week with safety Jim Nichols and linebacker Roger Whitley heading
up the defense, and freshman quarterback Bill Wolar directing the offense.

Corduroy Jeans and Jackets
Dingo Boots

Come see our tremendous selections in Campus Wear.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS, Use Your Automatic Charge Account.

ESTABLISHED 1912
John Mack & Son
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
