the davidsonian

October 24, 1975

2

Crime forces Hub into city suburbs

By THOMAS SADLER
City Editor

Citing the increasing crime rate and growing competition, Ralph Quackenbush announced yesterday that he was moving The HUB out of the downtown area and into the suburbs.

The move continues a nationwide trend which has seen both large and small merchants flee from the inner city for the more pleasant atmosphere of suburbia.

“Someone walked out the other day without paying for his hot dog and large root beer,” Quackenbush commented. “The losses that mount up in this way are too great for the large businessman to endure.”

The growing crime rate, also indicative of a national trend, is attributed in part to the negligence of the college students who fail to pay for their purchases.

“The honor system was good while it lasted,” noted another prominent merchant. “But inflation and the recession have hurt the college student too. With tuition costs as high as they are now, the student has to cut back somewhere.”

Quackenbush also called the competitive atmosphere in the downtown area “too great for the major food distributors.”

The Latest in Campus Wear

He felt that moving should serve to increase the business for the remaining two businesses, while he hopes to profit from the hungry mouths located outside the thriving megalopolis of Davidson-Cornelius.

“The coming area in the suburban area of Davidson-Cornelius is going to be the Days Inn location at the intersection of I-85 and N.C. 73,” Quackenbush explained, with dollar signs flashing wildly in his beady eyes.

“I think the location is desirable both from an economic and safety standpoint.”

The downtown area has been the scene of escape in recent years. Most noticeable was the moving of the famed Wildcat Den, which was replaced by First Union National Bank. It is expected that several enterprises may follow Quackenbush’s suit.

Piedmont Bank and Trust may shift to a location on the outskirts of Huntersville, while Harris Teeter has expressed interest in bringing an outlet into the Davidson downtown area. Such a move is contingent upon the approval of a parking lot to be constructed on the Village Green.

Regarding the increasing crime rate, a spokesman for the Davidson Police Force said that every effort was being made to apprehend the criminals.

The spokesman said Quackenbush could not positively identify the culprit, although he has been eating at The HUB for three years.

The police representative cited the perfect record of the Seven Eleven Food Store in the Davidson-Cornelius area as evidence of the fine work being done by the force.

Campus security agents have been alerted to beware of any persons who look as though they may have just fled the scene of a meal without paying.

Such persons are described as being medium height and weight, having a twinge of onion on their breath, a slight ring of mustard around their lips, and a satisfied look on their faces.

Quackenbush concluded by saying that he would guarantee a reward for any information leading to the arrest and conviction of any non-paying eaters.

The monetary sum of the reward consists of a weekly milkshake for the rest of the person’s academic career or four years, whichever comes first.

Debate team places second in tourney

By L. DEAN FADLEY
Staff Writer

“The results were orgasmic,” said Debate Captain Gordon Widenhouse, commenting on the debate team’s second-place finish in the North Mecklenburg High School Invitational Debate Tournament.

Widenhouse, with team member Mark Gergen, babbled his way into the finals only to lose to Senior High School in a split decision.

“Our record has improved tremendously since we entered the Charlotte High School circuit,” said Widenhouse, “and since only freshmen and transfer students debate on our team, we had no trouble convincing the Charlotte judges that we were as qualified for this circuit as Johnson C. Smith University.” The team record has now improved to 8-5, with four new first place trophies crowding the awards cabinet, along with twelve trophies for wins over Catawba College.

“I’m particularly impressed

(See DEBATE page 8)