Che Vol. LXIV, No. Twelve Hautdanntian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036 January 9, 1975

By MARK DEATON
Editor

Banquet Hall Sought

Few people have seen the permanent art collection of Davidson College which Professor of Art W. Herb Jackson estimates has
a value of $25,000. The entire collection is stored in the drawers of a filing cabinet due to a lack
of exhibition space. Included in the Davidson collection is a Goya aquatint, a cliché verre by Corot, a color lithograph
by Miró, a drawing by Corinth, a lithograph and a series of engravings by Hogarth.

The members of the Davidson College Art department feel that Chambers Banquet Hall could be easily remodeled as a gallery/museum,
avoiding the expense of constructing a separate museum building. “This particular room is only used infrequently, and I see no
reason for it to be continued to be used so sparingly,” said Professor of Art Larry L. Ligo. “It seems
to me that this is the perfect spot for a gallery, giving the college community a hub for art, both
in our collection and in our traveling shows.

“Since Chambers Banquet Hall is not being used to its full potential, I think it could be turned into a
gallery with relatively little outlay of funds,” said Ligo. “I don’t think we can hide the fact that an expanded
museum/gallery is going to cost some money, but I think it’s minimal as to the return value,” Jackson maintained.

Charles L. Wyrick Jr., a Davidson alumnus from the Class of ’61 and director of the Delaware Art Museum in
Wilmington, Delaware, agreed with this sentiment. “The potential benefits from such a museum would by far exceed the initial investment,”
said Wyrick. “From my experience as director of the Delaware Museum I have seen how an art museum can become
the focal point for the cultural life of a community.

“I personally would love to see Davidson have a museum. Just to have space available, properly lighted and secured would
be of great benefit not only to students, but to the whole college community,” Wyrick added. “I will personally lend
my unqualified endorsement to such an undertaking,” Wyrick added.

Chambers Banquet Hall is currently used for the Thursday morning cokes and coffee hour, occasional student dances, infrequent trustee, alumni,
and Davidson associate banquets, several lectures each year, standardized testing, and as the exam distribution center.

Behind Closed Doors

While soliciting works for the Davidson National, the Art department keeps the $25,000 Davidson permanent collection locked out of sight.
Professor of Art Douglas C. Houchens indicated that some of these functions could still be scheduled in the hall if
necessary. Houchens envisions Chambers Banquet Hall partitioned with movable walls connecting the two rows of interior columns in the present
structure. These walls would allow more display space for art, but as Houchens maintained, “these dividers could be strategically spaced
and stored if necessary so that interior space could be effectively manipulated.”

Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr. claimed that such movable partitions could be very practical, economically as
well as technically.

The Emperor Needs New Clothes

Jackson Articulates Arena For Art

By MARK DEATON
Editor

“You don’t have the action until you have an arena to put it in,” said Professor of Art Herb Jackson
concerning the lack of exhibition space at Davidson for artwork. Jackson has expressed hopes that Chambers Banquet Hall will be
remodeled as museum space to house the Davidson permanent collection, the monthly exhibitions, and student shows.

“I’m not asking for a $4.2 million structure, but look at the discrepancy in building a $4.2 million structure to
store verbal information and keeping four drawers in a cabinet for visual information. We can do is include a few
works in the student show.

“It would have been invaluable for Ken Freed or Kes Woodward to have a one-man show where they select about
30 pieces, mount them, and do all the public relations and promotion. It would have been a great experience for
them, and it would have been a great experience for the community.”

Jackson cited the location of the banquet hall as its primary attraction. “A separate building would be more convenient for
the art department, but in terms of ministering to the community, the banquet hall is right in the center of
campus.”

“We have to come to terms with the fact that that is not the only way man expresses himself. It
simply isn’t,” Jackson maintained. Jackson conceives the gallery in Chambers Banquet Hall as an educational arm of the college. “We
want a teaching collection,” said Jackson.‘‘We’re not competing with any major museums; for our needs, I think we want to
keep it small, unless, of course, someone gives us a tremendous addition to our collection.’’ Jackson maintains that there is
no provision for students to make use of the teaching collection Davidson now has. “Because the collection sits in 7
drawers, and until recently, hasn’t even been properly mounted, it’s of little use to students. They can’t refer to it,
relate it to other art history they’re studying, write a paper on a piece, or analyze the technique.

“On occasion we can pull a particular piece out to illustrate a point in a lecture or class, but we
can’t continue to pull them out constantly without severely damaging them,” Jackson said.

Jackson felt that exhibition space would be particularly helpful to senior art majors. “Exhibition space would be the basis of
extended studies 402,” Jackson indicated. ‘‘It would be invaluable for senior thesis exhibits to be displayed. Right now, the best
view of things,” said Jackson. “It would be sort of like making people on 5th Avenue walk through a gallery
on their way to lunch from work.”

“We wouldn’t just double our attendance at shows, we would increase it several hundred times,” said Jackson. “I think that
every student would see every show that’s here, unless he’s just adamantly opposed to art.”

Yet Chambers Banquet Hall seems an attractive choice to Jackson for various other reasons in addition to its location. “The
major advantage of Chambers Banquet Hall, aside from the fact that it’s in a place where the community, Chambers is
just a...”

College Union Operations Manager Bill Roland felt that there would be little demand for Chambers Banquet Hall in College Union
programming once the new union was occupied. “The pressure on the banquet hall will be substantially relieved when we move
to the new union. The new rooms are pretty much superior. The new Morrison room and Club Room don’t even
have the posts in the middle of the floors that they have in Chambers Banquet Hall,” Roland said.

College Union Director C. Shaw Smith had some reservations about using the space as an art museum. “I could back
that all the way but I’m not sure that the room could be used for both an art display and
student dances,” said Smith. He estimated that anywhere from 5 to 12 dances have been traditionally held there during the
school year. Smith indicated that most other union programs presently scheduled in the banquet hall could be effectively moved elsewhere
to sites in the new union.

He indicated his enthusiasm for the location as an art gallery. “To have great art where you do other things
is right. We shouldn’t try to subjugate art to an out-of-the-way location rather than a place where we can enjoy
it daily,” said Smith. “If there’s any way to blend it all, it’s fine with me,” Smith said.

Assistant Director of Alumni Affairs Zach F. Long also had reservations about turning a space he occasionally uses for programming
to the art department. “It would certainly not be convenient to have an alumni program upstairs in Chambers and then
walk to lunch in the gym,” said Long.

“A gallery doesn’t have the highest priority for the college. If it did, we’d already have one. I don’t know
if it’s a priority at all. I don’t know the possibilities,” Long added.

Jackson indicated that lighting, wall covering, window paneling, carpeting, security, and temperature and humidity control would be necessary for Chambers
to be used effectively as a gallery/museum. Gene Rushing of the Lighting Center Inc. of Charlotte estimated that track lighting
for Chambers Banquet Hall sufficient to light a gallery would cost less than $3,000.

Jackson felt that paneling could be placed over the ten double windows in the banquet hall, avoiding the cost of
bricking the apertures. Meetze indicated that the banquet hall has its own separate air conditioning system although its heating system
is part of the entire Chambers unit. “And the security could be worked out. No problem there,” Meetze added.

Bill Bodini of the Museum Program for the National Endowment for the Arts in Washington, D.C., indicated that federal monies
were available through the museum renovation program to improve security systems, to add storage space, and to install climate control
facilities.

“Money is tight, and there’s a lot of competition, but that shouldn’t discourage Davidson from applying,” Bodini said.
