September 19, 1975

Sara Kincaid takes exception to departure

Faculty guest column:
By RANDALL R. KINCAID JR.
Professor of Economics

The departure of several notables from Davidson College over the summer has brought to light a disturbing fact: there is no single word in the English language to describe a going-away party. There is a perfectly good word for a party for one who is arriving: a reception. We receive the new soul into the community via a joyous celebration. But what do we call a party for one who is leaving?

One obvious choice is to call it also a reception; in this case, however, the leavers receive the stayers. That’s clearly awkward and I think we can improve on it. We could simply call it a party, since party derives from pars, to divide. Thus we have a party to divide the departing folk from the community. But party in this strict sense will do only for those erudite enough to understand; that’s damned few.

Professor Epes has coined a German word: Entfangsabend, which comes from two words meaning, first, the opposite of receive, and second, evening. But can you imagine sending out invitations bearing a word that no one can pronounce?

Dean Terry offers three suggestions: conception, debriefing, and retrogression. The first, however, has unfortunate sexual implications; the second implies that someone will remove his pants; and the third implies that the stayers will somehow go backward without the presence of the leavers.

One live option is deception. The strengths of the word are, first, its symmetry with reception, and second, its impeccable etymology: de, from, and capere, to take. So we send out invitations saying, ‘Mr. and Mrs. Jones request the pleasure of your company at a deception for their niece, Mary.’ But what does one wear to a deception? The word clearly conjures up all sorts of images, but certainly not that of a party. It also would imply a kind of candor in many instances that we are unaccustomed to seeing; for those going-away parties where we are not entirely sorry to see the leavers leave, the word is too honest.

My own choice is exception. It has the same advantages as deception; and it can be distinguished in this usage from the more common usage by the accompanying verb: rather than take an exception, we will have an exception. Its disadvantage is that in polite circles such as ours, it has a slightly unfortunate connotation. When one among us says that he takes exception to a statement made by another, he is coming as close as we ever do to inviting the other to fisticuffs. But the saving grace is that most groups are not as genteel as ours; and therefore do not use the word much in that context. Hence I offer the word exception to you for your use in the future.

In order to get the ball rolling, I take this opportunity to tell you that there will be an exception for all seniors on May 23 next. Dress for the faculty and graduates will be academic regalia and for all others Sunday-school clothes.

Weather, architecture, student independence at the University of East Anglia

Ubiquitous rain and concrete
By DAVID RICHARDSON

The first thing a newcomer takes notice of at the University of East Anglia (UEA) is concrete: lines, angles and piles of amorphous grey-white clinging to the green curves of East Anglia. The second thing is, invariably, rain. Not just ordinary rain, but clouds, mists and herds of the stuff, soaking through ground, skin and stopping just short of concrete block.

Now this is not to say that rain and concrete don’t blend together into pleasing visual scenery; nor that both elements dominate the lives of matriculating students caught between, as it were, celestial force and temporal will. On the contrary, the rain and concrete of UEA soon shift to the hazy background of the visitor’s thoughts as he encounters other, more stimulating assets of the university. But unlike most of the novel aspects, the two elements of rain and concrete remain imprinted, if sublimated, upon the memory forever as indelible and fundamental perceptions of the English world of East Anglia.

Then what are these secondary principles of intrigue and interest which grace the campus of UEA? Obviously, to each observer the depth and value of various characteristics assume completely unique proportions. Yet beneath this stipulation lies, perhaps, the first point to be made of the university. That is, whereas my first patron college tended to compel (or constrain) student interest, activity and involvement along singular lines and proportions, UEA appears to diversify, to disseminate student faculties through a variety of means and media.

For example, take the physical plant of this university. The entire system is based on the identification and allocation of the various principles of undergraduate and graduate existence through independent location and interpretation—yet all linked to one another through overlapping needs and concerns. The long rows of modern dormitories were constructed to plan, consisting of individual cell units, aligned and grouped on the hall (or corridor) system. Each hall consists of twelve of these independent rooms, a proportionate bathroom with toilets and shower, and a functional, universal kitchen with sink, burners, oven, grill and refrigerator. Milk is delivered daily to the kitchen, food is stored in the kitchen, and the only table long enough to eat comfortably on is, again, in the kitchen. Hence the principle structure consists of the coordination of independent lives and values with fundamental needs. However diverse their interests and backgrounds, the students may encounter their neighbors on a neutral plane, gratifying a biological urge—food—and hopefully, a social one—companionship. No hall counselor exists to interfere in student concerns; there are no real regulations.Enforced upon the hall, and all problems or corrective dilemmas which affect hall welfare must be dealt with by the members, face-to-face, and not by outside administrative force. Perhaps a word or two in explanation will help to define the student of UEA. Undergraduates usually live in the dormitories, although some live in the small city of Norwich and commute the short distance to school. But the undergraduate body alone is more diverse than most small American graduate-undergraduate universities. It consists of students from the corners of the United Kingdom, from the corners of the world (Chinese, Asian, African, European, Latin American), and from the corners of society (upper class-middle-lower class). Of equal importance is the age differential: ranging from 16 to 40s or 50s, most strongly represented among the early 20s bracket. Hence the self-developing tendencies, the responsibilities, the independent existence are all shouldered by a far more heterogeneous and mature assortment of students for the normal university period of three years.

In addition, the product evolving from British secondary schooling is by the general rule a more select, advanced, erudite, and older student than he/she who completes the high school diploma requirements in the United States. Traveling the length of the campus and linking the three modern dormitories (the two smaller ones, built to a pyramid-terrace design, are considered major architectural achievements for English universities) is the principal structure of UEA—the teachers’ block. The name belies its use, as this building contains all classrooms, lecture rooms (lecture theaters are located in a separate building), schools—roughly translated: departments, yet far more defined, extensive, self-sufficient units including their own administrations—laboratories, and the teachers’ offices. Not surprisingly, this angular, snaking structure stretches three-quarters of a mile, making it the longest building of its kind in all the universities of Great Britain. Within these concrete walls and large plate glass windows thrive all collaborative academic activity, most administrative business, and a great deal of student affairs. Classes (i.e., seminars) and lectures are held here: Monday to Saturday from 9 a.m. at the earliest to 6, 7, or 8 at night. Most students take two seminars for a normal term workload, and on average each class meets twice a week. The lectures relating to classes are optional, and attendance of seminars is encouraged, but not enforced. This set-up lends itself well to outside, independent study, easy travel scheduling, and relaxed if infrequent, student-teacher involvement.

The athletic system at UEA is based on independent clubs of each sport, self-organized and maintained, and open to any student for participation. There is no athletic requirement, and the sports facilities are placed entirely in the hands of students and faculty—individually or by club. The university pub is modern, fairly large, and the most frequented structure on campus. Situated at the center of UEA, along with a square of shops—supermarket, bookshop, launderette, three banks, large student union, travel service, and other student-service facilities—the pub is directly opposite the teachers’ block, and surrounded by the four different restaurant/cafeterias of the university. Multitudes of beers and liquors flow rapidly from the bar, and yes, no one is above lighting a joint or two as well. Very crowded at night—standing room only—noisy, and, of course, something for everybody.

The library here is large and modern, but often relatively empty—often of students and the desired books. Not quite as popular as the Davidson library seemed to be, most students swear to spending as little time as possible among its stacks. This condition changes, however, by the end of term, as the mad rush begins to complete final essays. Despite the lack of keenly competitive minds and organization, the UEA facility boasts an excellent small record library, photocopy room, individual carrel rooms upon reservation, running arts displays, and certainly not the least attribute, the most commanding view of the modern, well-tailored campus (clothed in concrete, of course).

The most influential and well-used institution within the university itself is the Students’ Union. The large Union building entails much space and comfort for student use and recreation, club activities, and Union meetings. Concerts are held in the common rooms, two television rooms are open at all times, mail is collected, student organizations governed, and loitering achieves its greatest tribute with chairs, cushions, and carpets. Hardline activists engage softline moderates here as, in timeless European tradition, national politics intertwine with student government, elections, and, occasionally, all-out strikes. Although not as politically active as some would like it, the Students’ Union is directly or indirectly involved with most student affairs—public or private.

Now, you may have a postcard glimpse of the University of East Anglia before you, or you may well have a distorted representation. In all fairness, many more aspects require mention to conjure a realistic image of the school: all of these subject to my personal translation. Many of the most rudimentary tenets necessitate elaboration and a sense of abstraction for the successful comprehension of UEA by the American foreigner. This same property, other than the ubiquitous rain and concrete, will perhaps linger the longest in my memory, once I've quit the green and grey plains of East Anglia. That is, forced to decipher what has survived him, the visiting student must help but to emerge into a different but changing frame of mind—by the mere act of translation. Then once translation gives way to the intelligent use of contrast and comparison, that which the student has known all his life, and taken for granted, acquires new shades of meaning in different light—for better or for worse. The final process of evaluation is, fortunately, left up to the subjective and experienced individual. And that, perhaps, is the most you could ask for in a year abroad.