~~ eBeHBeeSBeSBEewew eee

Friday, January 10
“Westworld”

Saturday, January 11
St. John’s

Monday, January 13

Tuesday, January 14
8:30 p.m.

Wednesday, January 15
8 p.m. Fine Film:

Thursday, January 16
Woodrow Wilson
8 p.m.
9 p.m.

coming distractions all week

Sculpture and Drawing: Stowe Galleries
John Kehoe
3 p.m.

Swimming: Johnston Gym
Commonwealth
6:30 p.m.

Women’s Basketball - Johnston Gym
Augusta College
8:30 p.m.

Pop Film: Love Auditorium
8 a.m. Dental Aptitude Test
Chambers Banquet Hall
11 a.m. Annual Fund Conference
Eu Hall
6 p.m. Varsity Basketball: Charlotte Coliseum
Lees McRae
8 p.m. Varsity Basketball: Charlotte Coliseum
6 p.m. Varsity Basketball: Charlotte Coliseum
UN
8 p.m. Varsity Basketball: Charlotte Coliseum
University of Virginia
8:15 p.m. Chamber Music Hodson Hall
6:30 p.m. Women’s Basketball. Johnston Gym
Converse
7 p.m. Worship Service DCPC
Young Republican's Elections Martin Room
“The Hustler”
4 p.m. Lecture: Joseph Spengler
6 p.m. J.V. Basketball: UNCC

Professor Arthur W. Link, biographer of Woodrow Wilson and the editor of his papers at Princeton University, will be at
Davidson as a member of the Advisory Committee of the Center for Honors Studies. Link will have dinner with and
speak to students and faculty of the center about his work on Reynolds Lecture: Kenneth Boulding

SGA Senate Meeting: Two proposals concerning the future of the Physical Education requirement will be presented to the SGA Senate.
Director of Physical Education Chip Stone will propose modifying the present requirement by demanding proficiency in two team sports. A
proposal would allow IMAC or Club sport participation to fulfill one team sport requirement. Senator Mark Rabil will present an
alternative proposal—the abolition of the PE requirement “in order to allow the student the choice of participating or not.” Rabil
also intends to propose a three-year trial period in the event that Stone’s proposal is adopted by the Educational Policy
Committee.

The Davidsonian

Love Auditorium
Eu Hall
Concord
Diem
Love Auditorium
Phi Hall

Student Referral Service Plans Aid With Personal Problems
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

Within a few months, Davidson students may be able to telephone or go to an information center on campus where
they can find up-to-date materials on sex, drugs, and possibly legal help. The proposed center will be equipped with first
aid working on the idea of the information-referral center, including Dean of Students Will Terry, Counselor Meredith Hall, sophomore Karl
Goodhouse, and SGA President John Munce. Members of the Faculty Counseling and Guidance Committee also are involved with the project.

As the center is now planned, a student will be in the office from about 10 p.m. till one or
two each night. The student will take calls and will be available in case anyone needs information or just wants
to come and talk. “I would hope that we could get people to man these things who are very sensitive
to people who are uptight,” explained Terry. However, Terry cautioned against the idea that the student-manager will be providing psychological
services. “We don’t want a lot of amateur psychologists over there psychoanalyzing the student.”

Munce hopes that the student operators can be given some basic training in first aid and in talking with other
students about problems, but believes that the center should be predominantly a referral and information center. Munce also hopes that
students working at the center can receive pay.

Chambers Lock-Up?
By ANNE PELFREY
Asst. News Editor

Locking Chambers during the night is a possibility being debated by several members of the administration, according to Director of
the Physical Plant Grover Meetze. “We have only discussed the option of closing Chambers, but have not yet made any
definite plans to do so,” said Meetze.

During visits with the freshman halls, college President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. responded to the question of closing Chambers by
stating the library was built to seat half the student body and that should be adequate seating space for the
college’s needs. “Grover Meetze has told me that he will come up with a campus-wide plan for saving energy in
two weeks. We would want to get the most efficient use of the study space available,” said Spencer.buildings with regard
to students' needs about it," he said before. "The decision is made," he added. "The library seats 653 people and
the study room, which stays open until 8 a.m., can be a problem in that it seats between 30 and
40 people," said Leland M. Park. Chambers houses the language lab and the computer room. "We are making a study
of every building on campus because we want to see how we can conserve energy," Meetze said. "If the noise
level is a problem in the library, that is something the students must decide for themselves. I can't and don't
want to police 1200 people," he said.

Fields Foretells WDAV News Before Storming White House
By STEVE JOHNSON
Asst. Features Editor

The man who rammed his car through a gate on the White House grounds Christmas Day, Marshall L. Fields, had
declared a week earlier in a letter to the WDAV Newsroom that he would 'denounce' his U.S. citizenship and seek
political asylum in a Near East country, according to WDAV News Director Rob Shearer. Fields, a 25-year-old Howard University (of
Washington, D.C.) dropout, did not suggest in the letter that he intended to crash through the White House gate and
demand a meeting with Pakistan's ambassador to this country.

Shearer laid the letter aside as a prank by one of his friends at first, but he realized its significance
as he was browsing through the "Atlanta Constitution" the morning after Christmas. An article concerning an intruder on the grounds
of the White House on Christmas Day caught Shearer's eye, as the intruder bore the same name as the author
of the "prank letter." Shearer indicated that he was "stunned and puzzled" as to why Fields had chosen to forewarn
WDAV in particular. The article mentioned only two other organizations across the nation that had received such letters.

Later that day, Shearer telephoned the Atlanta Secret Service to report that he had received a letter from Fields expressing
his intentions. That bureau requested that he notify Secret Service in Charlotte when he returned to Davidson, where the letter
of intent had remained during the holidays. At printing, Shearer had not informed the Charlotte bureau that he received the
letter from Fields. Special Agent in charge of the Secret Service in Charlotte, Talmadge W. Bailey, explained that it is
a common practice by someone planning such a confrontation to contact various phases of the media to promote and solicit
support for his cause. Concerning the question of why Fields chose to notify Davidson College, Shearer suggested that "he was
trying to get the message across to college students."

Fields forewarned numerous organizations, including a chain of South African newspapers and Washington area reporters. The letter, termed by Shearer
as "disjointed," was accompanied by photographs, news clippings, and documents of the Agency of International Development. Fields, an applicant for
membership in the Islamic party in North America, the official term for the Black Muslims, declared in the letter, "I
have returned to break crosses and to kill swine, I have returned as promised. To the Western world, I am
the messiah to those who wish to believe...."

Fields' father had served as an advisor on educational and industrial areas in Iraq, Libya, and Sudan—all predominantly Moslem and
Arabic-speaking countries. Upon his death last spring, he was deputy chief of education for Southeast Africa in the Agency for
International Development. Young Fields is fluent in Arabic and signed the letter with the name Abdur-Rahim.

Davidsonian Staff
Production Manager: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Production Manager: WILLIAM KENNON
News Editor: MATTHEW COVINGTON
Assistant News Editor: ANNE PELFREY
Features Editor: LARRY MIMMS
Assistant Features Editors: STEVE JOHNSON, VAN WILLIAMSON
Associate Editors: DON BENSON, ANNE FICKLEN, CHUCK HARMON, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP, ERIC WALKER
Contributing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, JOE MCMILLAN, VINCE RABIL, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Business Manager: JEFF SICH
Advertising Manager: DAVID TRADER
Circulation Managers: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Photography Editor: LEON VENABLE
Staff Artists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL
Copy Editors: CAMILLE CATHEY, SABRA FAIRES

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.
