Eight

The Davidsonian

March 20, 1975

Media Awareness: How To See Show

By VINCE RABIL
Contributing Editor

The Fourth Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition opened last Sunday amidst gala festivities and much social fanfare. It will be on exhibit until April 18 in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

One hundred sixty-one works were selected by Judith Goldman, managing editor of "Art News," from among 2476 entries from 50 states and Puerto Rico.

Nearly one third of the works are drawings, and according to the show’s director, Herb Jackson, this show "might be thought of as the year drawings become a major issue for the juror."

Thirty-two states and the District of Columbia are represented in the show, but nearly one third of the selections were from New York and California-based artists.

This may be due to the high quality of the entries, which Jackson states "was the highest in the history of this project."

$3250 in awards

A total of $3250 in awards were provided by the show’s sponsors and awarded by the juror. A large number of works were sold at the opening, but the picking is still good.

Although the show’s juror was unable to attend the opening, one could see there many of the featured artists munching on strawberries and sipping wine.

It is my hope that many of you who "made this scene" will be able to return to the show again and really "see" it. After all, this show is about seeing in its highest sense: total visual perception.

In order to fully perceive each work, one must open his senses to an awareness of media (pencil, mixed inks, intaglio processes, relief, serigraph, color use, etc.), and try to perceive "where" the artist is "coming from."

You must determine if a work is about its images or the properties of its medium primarily.

Media important

As a viewer, you cannot really "see" a piece unless you are able to determine whether the artist is exploiting the properties of his medium to create an illusion, or whether the artist exploits the textures, tones, and structures of an image to explore the properties, uses, and qualities of certain media.

In short, is the message in the use of the medium, or is the medium secondary to the communication of a message?

Seeing vs. looking

I must admit that I left the show after an initial overall "look-at" somewhat depressed. I felt these selections were sentimental, conservative, and backward-looking in terms of the modern tradition.

These reactions resulted from looking and not seeing: a mistake made by many who will view the show looking for political, religious, literary, metaphysical, or mythical commentary.

The works selected by Judith Goldman for this show were created for their own raison d'être. And these, for the most part, are about purely sensual, visual experiences.

In order for most Davidsonians to "see" this show, they will have to leave their academic robes at the door and remove the jargon-colored glasses from their eyes.

Within the criteria set by Goldman are coherent use of imagery, consistent stylistic treatment, mastery of technique, and a primary concern for visual and material issues.

Another Saturday Night

Dare Francis, the creator of this skeletal drawing, was the second Davidson College student ever to have his work displayed in the Davidson National.

There can be found, nevertheless, many styles and a broad range in the use of and experimentation with diverse media.

Imagery secondary

Despite what I have said about visual experience, it still may seem strange that in a show with so much realism and representation there is not more literary communication. Perhaps this can be explained by the use of imagery by these artists as secondary to their primary concern with "how" the image is communicated: their media.

For the most part, these works are extremely medium-conscious, and thus the artists use their images as structural frameworks for exploring what visually can be done with pencil, charcoal, serigraph, lithograph, intaglio, woodcut, etc.

This concern for media is very "Twentieth Century," and so my initial reaction that the show is "backward-looking" has changed upon "seeing" the issues being dealt with here.

Compromise

In a sense, many of these artists are making it easy on the viewer by exploring their media in a representational format. Perhaps it is a good compromise between the natural desires and needs of the viewing audience and the intellectual concerns of the artist with the properties of his media.

Of course, what I have said here is awkwardly general and based on overall characteristics of the show. You will find upon "seeing" the show several exceptions: literary, political, and comical.

Please do not allow the easy perception of these works to deny you the experience of "seeing" the more visually involving works. Certainly do not deceive yourself with the belief that you have "seen" this show after one quick look.

Photos by Leon Venable