November 14, 1975

The Davidsonian

McEuen recounts ‘Dirt Band’

By CATHY LANDIS
Staff Writer

One day last week Russ Kushigian received a telephone call. “I don’t know how to tell you this, but John
McEuen wants to play in your room.” It must have “cracked him up.” When the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band played
last month, McEuen noticed the 900 room. “Gee, that’s a nice room,” he said. When he got time off from
the tour he decided to come back here instead of sitting around doing nothing. Besides, he likes Davidson. He likes
the people; he likes the “nice quiet town.” Most of all, McEuen likes to play. It seems to “crack him
up.” His instruments are the guitar, banjo, mandolin, and, occasionally, the fiddle. McEuen never had any formal musical training. “I’ve
never been housebroken,” he said. What he knows about both the practical and the theoretical aspects of music he learned
by himself. He doesn’t have a particular song that he enjoys above the others. He primarily likes to play things
that will affect people. “It’s more fun than boring them.” He enjoys backing up singers both in concert and on
records more than any other job. He has backed up Linda Ronstadt, for example, frequently, but McEuen has never recorded
with her. “I’m just too easy-going for her.”

The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band has backed up Ronstadt as well as many other artists. The band started out of
Long Beach, California in 1966. Their strongest point lay in their versatility which they have maintained to this day. McEuen
calls the band’s music “Traditional Popular Music,” a term which can include as many types of music as the band
plays. They give performances in anything from Rock-and-Roll, to folk, to country, to bluegrass. They perform anywhere from rowdy Texas
daytime bashes, to outdoor festivals, to concerts in good halls: the latter by which Davidson is classified.

Probably the most talked about accomplishment of the band so far has been their album Will the Circle Be Unbroken.
Produced by John’s brother Bill in 1966, the album became one of the most important albums of the Nashville music
business. Starting with Earl Scruggs and Doc Watson, the band managed to pull together Mother Maybelle Carter, Roy Acuff, Merle
Travis, Jimmy Martin, Vassar Clements, and Norman Blake who, in one album, managed to present the best concise representation of
the “Old Guard” country music that had come out of Nashville in a long time. Equally as important, the album
bridged the cultural gap between the country “establishment” and the younger rock-and-roll culture.

McEuen does not think that the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band has yet reached its peak. “We’ve never really made it,”
he smiled. Specifically, he refers to concert crowds. Their largest crowds gather in Kansas City, Atlanta, New Mexico, Denver, and
Dallas where they usually attract from 5 to 6000 people.

The first Southern concert that the band ever played was at Davidson five years ago. “C. Shaw Smith put the
Dirt Band in the South.” Coming to the South was actually a big move for the band. They came just
after Easy Rider had been released. One of the members, Jeff Hanna, even cut his hair. Their fears were not
relieved when the first person they bumped into in the Atlanta airport was a 400 lb. policeman. After their reception
from the Southern audience, however, they dropped their prejudices.

In John’s opinion, the band experienced their worst show in Kentucky last year. “We got a little wiser,” he said.
Thinking that the crowd had come to see them, they gave little attention to Jim Stafford who opened before them
until after he had received 3 or 4 standing ovations. After the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band began, the crowd dropped
from 6000 to 2500.

McEuen never tires of playing, but he does of traveling. Sometimes they are on the road for 15 hours only
to do an hour and a half show. With that short a time, they have to make their show good
to make it worth it. There are more advantages to being a star than simply the opportunity to play and
perform. McEuen goes to almost any concert free of charge. Of course, as McEuen said, the road to stardom isn’t
easy. John asks anyone who expresses an interest in pursuing a career in popular music if...They like to be frustrated.
He feels like it’s one of the hardest things a person can do. And there are so many setbacks. What
if, for instance, he breaks a fingernail? “I wait,” he replied.

Funkadelic record slays imitators
By RUSTY LINDSEY
Staff Writer

Funkadelic, in the years of its existence, has undergone as many internal changes as any group. Through seven albums, however,
the musical idea has continued to be developed and advanced. With the release of Funkadelic in 1968, a new form
of such music was unleashed. Funkadelic employed a wailing lead alien to most previous soul undertakings, resulting in a sound
distinctly psychedelic. Interjecting social commentary along with biting satire on a variety of subjects, Funkadelic has evolved a unique style
that has resulted in a loyal cult following, traditionally among young Blacks of college and high-school age. The past couple
of years, however, have produced a number of singles which have enjoyed moderate to good success. Among these were "A
Joyful Process" (1972), "Shading in the Verge" (1974), and "Stuff and Things" (1975).

Funkadelic’s latest album, "Let's Take It to the Stage," continues in the tradition of their past releases. As before, the
music is a collage of images, impressions, and sounds. Highlighted throughout is the excellent play of two of the newer
members of Funkadelic, bassist Ray Davis and guitarist Mike Hammond. Their forceful playing stands out noticeably from the mass of
sound Funkadelic puts forth. As always, the lyrics of George Clinton are both compelling and complex, assaulting the mind.

Side one begins with a boogie-funk number which shows Funkadelic at its best. "Good to Your Earhole" is a foot-stomping
exhortation to get the party down. Hammond uses the wah-wah to perfection, while the rhythm section lays down a heavy
funk line. The next three songs on the side are intriguing. "Better by the Pound" is a testimonial to marijuana
and the role it has come to play in the lives of our young. In this cut, music takes a
back seat to words as Funkadelic tells us, “There’s a tidal wave of mysticism surging through our jet-age generation,” and
reminds us of the pitfalls of dope—“we've got to have it more than we ought to...”

The third cut, "Be My Beach," is a straight-faced example of the pseudo-chauvinistic attitude of today’s men. The singer tells
his beach (woman) that she’s not the only woman in the world. As in "Better by the Pound," vocals are
again the focal point, weaving a tale of sexual exploration. The theme of sex and the extent to which it
pervades human relationships reaches its apex in "No Head, No Backstage Pass," which message concerns a groupie named Jan and
the conditions the band places on her backstage attendance. She said, “I know the drummer, can you let me in?
Tell the guitar player I balled a friend. Ask the roadies, do they need a hand? Tell the manager there’s
a girl named Jan.” Chorus: Stop your prancing. No head, no backstage pass. As you can see, the lyrics need
no explanation (unless you're naive as hell).

Track four is the high point of the album, in which Funkadelic pokes fun at all the “Funk” bands now
in vogue, referring to “Slufus” (Rufus), “The Godfather” (James Brown), “Earth, Hot Air, and No Fire” (Earth, Wind and Fire),
“Slick and the Family Trick” (Sly), and their vain attempts at emulating the Funk Mob, as Funkadelic calls themselves. They
decry the fact that they have advocated the pursuit of funkiness, while their erstwhile competitors have attempted to tread a
fine line between general acceptance and self-satisfaction. The fact that Funkadelic loves their music, and loves making it, is reflected
in the hip-shaking conclusion of side one, "Get Off Your Ass and Jam," a rousing call to party hard. The
rhythm core of Hammond on guitar, Davis on bass, and veteran Funkadelic Tiki Fulwood on drums pound out one of
the best party songs of the year. The song adapts to music a phrase popular a few years ago at
parties where people would exhort, “Shit, Goddamn, Get off your ass and jam!”

Side two is different from side one in that it is exploratory in nature. Bernie Worrell’s keyboards predominate, weaving patterns
about the listener.
