December 5, 1975

the davidsonian

_..Facul

(Continued from page 1)

professor for a longer period in effect contradicts your need for him. The problem is the costs involved.”

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. explained the need for a more formal faculty development program. “We are now entering a period of steady-state growth for faculties all over the country. The mobility and expansion of faculties during the sixties is past now.

“In such a steady-state situation we must provide even more programs for the faculty to enrich their thinking.

“In the past, whenever we have introduced new programs, such as the humanities program, we have always given faculty members grants to study these programs; or in the case of something like the computers, we've provided funds to study these new facilities.”

On the training program proposed for new professors, Spencer stressed that such a program would have to be voluntary. Johnston concurred in this opinion and said he felt that there are “very narrow” improvements that could come from such a program, although he noted that a “faculty member can learn a lot” from his peers.

Spencer also felt that a sort of “Watson Fellowship for Faculty Members” should be created so that a professor could pursue a project tangential to his field and thereby expand his intellectual horizons.

“I would also like to see the chances for all faculty members to study abroad increase a great deal. We are obviously more and more becoming a one-world community, and we need to stop being provincial. We need to see ourselves in the perspectives of other cultures.”

Faculty Executive Committee member John Kelton is particularly unimpressed with the idea of using video-tape equipment to record a faculty member’s presentation. Instead, he would like to see the college hire a full-time consultant to run a “learning resource center.”

“This person would know more than just the traditional methods for running a class and presenting materials, such as lecturing and running discussion groups,” said Kelton.

He would know and be able to suggest to faculty members various new ways to present illustrations to a class. Also, he would suggest methods for researching and preparing for classes.

“I think such a person would draw interest from new and older faculty members alike,” said Kelton.

For now, the Executive Committee is reviewing the proposals made by Williams. In addition, Spencer reports that the college is applying to the Mellon Foundation for funds to implement the programs as soon as possible.

RUMPLE DORMITORY

-Laura Moses

Now taking orders for

© THE FLOWER HIVE
© THE FINAL TOUCH
© THE BOOK GARDEN
© LA FROMAGERIE

Gift Boxes by Ben David

892-5856

Smith Circle
Cornelius, N.C.
Most Credit Cards

Give a friend something to talk to. Buy a plant from

© THE PLANT INN

Poinsettias, Cyclamen, Christmas Cactus

Bumblebee Greene

Floral designs by Pat Montgomery
Gifts and Decorative Accessories

Books on plants, food and wines,
Christmas cards and Gift Wrapping
Scented candles and soap.
Cheese, Wines, Teas, etc.

Friday, Dec. 5
8 & 10:30 P.M.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

CHINATOWN

$1.00

Do yourself a favor. Check these prices before you buy a sound system.

Many satisfied customers on campus!
FREE at STUDENT STORE