Vol. LXIV, No. Seventeen Che - 28036 AavuiwMaonian Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N.C February 13, 1975

Grange Funds Chemistry Renovations
By EARL W. LAWRIMORE
News Bureau Director

The Grange Foundation awarded a $1.1 million grant to Davidson College Wednesday to renovate the Martin Chemistry Building, according to Vice President for Development Craven Williams. The Grange Foundation makes grants to “colleges which make significant contributions to scientific education through innovative teaching methods and faculty-student research.” College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. accepted the award on behalf of the college.

“We are very appreciative of the work the Grange Foundation is doing to promote higher education in small private liberal arts colleges and particularly for this generous contribution to Davidson,” said Spencer. “We have always had a strong commitment toward the sciences and have campaigned hard to get this grant,” Spencer said. “I only wish it could have been more.”

Williams stressed the commitment the college has to the Grange Foundation in accepting the grant. “We must remember that this money must be matched by Davidson on a dollar-for-dollar basis, and we will rename the building, of course, for Dr. Donald Grange.”

Chemistry Department Chairman Nicholas Burnett expressed surprise and pleasure at this announcement. “I and the entire chemistry department, which will occupy the renovated project, are just tickled pink. We're finally going to have a structure Davidson College can be proud of, and we can stop these piecemeal fix-it jobs like worn wiring replacement,” said Burnett.

Former Davidson Chemistry Professor and 9th District Congressman James G. Martin will head up the campaign for the matching funds. “This will be a tough assignment, but I’m confident in my ability to sell anyone a bill of goods,” said Martin. “I’ll be working in Washington D.C. to get D.C. funds,” he added. “We're going to make the new James Martin & Donald Grange Memorial Chemistry facility the finest building of its kind,” Martin pledged.

“Now that the administration has made a commitment to chemistry, we'll start plans tomorrow for the design of the building,” said Burnett. “Grover Meetze and I will take the bus to Mary Baldwin tomorrow to get ideas from their chemistry facility,” he added. “But tonight will be a night for celebration. I’m going to break open the ethyl alcohol I’ve had improperly stored in the building for the occasion,” said Burnett. “This is just too good to believe. I can’t believe Dr. Spencer finally got around to raising money for us. When Dr. Spencer told me about the grant, I almost dropped my jaw. I’ve been turning in plans for years, only to be discouraged,” Burnett said. “I can hardly wait for the Nicholas Burnett-James Martin-Donald Grange building to be completed,” he added.

Spencer emphasized that the grant represented five years of fund raising work. “It’s been obvious to me for some time now that something had to be done. It’s been a long, agonizing wait for the Grange people to discover the problem too and drop the money on our doorstep,” said Spencer. “I think this is a real indication of the generosity of the Grange Foundation. They gave us the money without even being asked,” Spencer said.

The Martin Chemistry Building has been cited on 55

Faculty Considers Night Exam Proposal Following Examination Of EPC Policy
By MICHAEL TANNER
Staff Writer

The faculty passed a proposal for implementation of night exams in the self-scheduled exam period by a vote of 54 to 42 Tuesday. The plan was passed as a trial measure. The option of night exams will be open for students for the upcoming winter term examinations, and the system will then be re-evaluated.

“The vote was a bit surprising to me,” said Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan.'Although the night exam plan is a very reasonable proposal, I believe the exam periods previously scheduled were sufficient time for those students who planned to take two exams in one day,” said GA Senator Martin Eakes, who introduced the proposal at the faculty meeting. “I simply told them that the number eight was not magic, and that seemed to do the trick,” said Eakes. EPC Members Richard R. Bernard and Alexander J. McKelway led the faculty members voting in favor of the proposal.

Responding to Eakes’ remarks, Bernard said, “The number eight, while not magic, is still a very interesting integer and should not be discriminated against. Yes, yes, yes indeed. We ran the night exams proposal through the faculty. All we had to do was plug it in and turn the crank,” Bernard said.

Asked to comment on the proposal, McKelway stated, “I shall take a moment from my busy schedule, (though it be only a moment, it is far more valuable than the hours of other men), to express myself on the issue of night exams. I don’t think you students realize the degree of anguish we professors face in waiting in our offices from 7 to 10 p.m. to give students answers to exam questions,” said McKelway.

EPC Chairman John M. Bevan and the 42 faculty members who voted against the night exam proposal were led by the Dean of the Faculty Earl R. MacCormac. “I declined to favor the proposal because of the inadequacies of grammatical syntax inherent in the wording (See FACULTY, page 12).

...counts of violating federal safety and health regulations, including faulty wiring, inadequate ventilation hoods, and improper chemical storage. “I guess 55 wrongs don’t make a right,” Spencer said. “I think it’s a real tribute to our news bureau that they have kept the authorities from learning about these conditions. Buck has never blown a cover for us yet,” Spencer added. “I just draw the line, and the Buck stops here.”

“To be frank, I’ve abhorred looking at that building,” said Spencer. “In addition to being the eyesore of the Davidson campus, the fumes are horrible,” he said. “After the remodeling, I’ll be able to see the library and the new Samuel R. Spencer Jr.-Nicholas Burnett-James Martin-Donald Grange Chemistry Building from my office window. It will be just like being back at Mary Baldwin,” he said. Burnett indicated that some adjustments would have to be (See GRANGE, page 12).

N.C. Fellows Select 15 New Members
By BILL EDWARDS
Staff Writer

Fifteen Davidson freshmen were selected as North Carolina Fellows during the final selection procedures last weekend, according to Program Director John D. Kelton. The North Carolina Fellows Program attempts to identify students with leadership potential and give them money for summer internships to develop a following. “These 15 finalists had better be good,” said Kelton. “We only had 15 places, so we passed up a lot of good people, some real natural leaders,” said Kelton.

“Of course, the program caters to students who have potential for leadership, not the ones who are already leaders,” said Kelton. “We may have to change our name before long,” Kelton added. “Six of the fellows are female this year. I feel kind of dumb talking about women fellows. The other nine are just regular guys,” he said.

“One of the big attractions to the program is the possibility for summer internships,” said Kelton. “We’ve had past fellows doing a lot of exciting things. Several were working in government internships in Washington D.C. and got involved in Watergate. There is a certain amount of prestige that goes along with being a fellow,” said Kelton. “A lot of students resent the elitist image of the programs, so we try to pick a few duds each year to counterbalance that.”

Kelton announced that the following freshmen were selected as North Carolina Fellows: (See FELLOWS, page 12).