December 19, 1975

The Davidsonian

Organization for SGA

Campus elections are over and those who were elected are ready to implement their platforms and fulfill their offices. Each organization is blessed with a new blood of leadership and the optimism that this year will be better, more efficient, more fun, more important. The college union wants to bring the community into union programming. The Miscellany wants to become a nationally recognized literary publication. All of the organizations on this campus have ideas. The new officers of the YM/YWCA promise a more enthusiastic program. Quips and Cranks editors seek to end the apathy they have felt in past years. The SGA Senate hopes to find the new Academic Vice President. The students elected all want to do the jobs prescribed by their offices and they all believe that they can. For each person involved in the leadership of his organization, there is a clear conception of what should be done to improve it. Each individual person that heads a student organization has plans. These plans may be accurately outlined by individuals to other members of their organization but there is now no way for the SGA Senate to have a firm idea of what student organizational boards which fall under its jurisdiction conceive themselves to be.

This is not the way it should be. The SGA Senate is the legislative board for the entire student body. All organizations composed of students should be responsible to their governing body. The only way that they can be is to submit concise statements of board by-laws to the Senate. These by-laws should describe what the board is, where it receives its funds and how, and what obligations of duty or service it plans to provide. This presentation of by-laws to the Senate need not restrict the autonomy of any campus board. The chancellor of the SGA may receive and collect by-laws from all organizational boards and then file the by-laws away. With a file of this type, the Senate could actively begin to define the roles of student organizations and to integrate these organizations for maximum efficiency. The by-laws of all boards would be returned to the boards each new year for renewal or change by the boards themselves. These would then be reapproved and refiled by the Senate. In this way, all organizations will be able to effectively communicate to each other the specifics of their organization through their legislative body, the SGA Senate. The responsibility of each student board is to approve, rewrite or draft its by-laws, submit it to the Senate for approval and filing, and then set about to fulfill the obligations they have officially committed themselves to.

"The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in the image." --Kenneth Boulding

Editor
Business Manager
Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse ........ Managing Editors
Executive Editor
Andrew Lamas
Leon Venable

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

Photography Editor
Sports Editor
Advertising Manager

Munce welds politics, phil
By JOHN MUNCE

"Knowing exactly how much of the future can be introduced into the present is the secret of a great government." --Victor Hugo

Politics and philosophy havebeen my fare for the past year. Both lend themselves to frustration and abstracts; in both, failures are too readily seen while successes are much harder to discern. Rather than catalog either success or failure here, I want to clarify how I judge them retrospectively. 

First, we need to understand that students elect senators and presidents in hopes of the masses, to do all those grubby things with which the students don’t want to spend time. This is not pure apathy; it is also good sense. Representatives, however, expect to right great wrongs and fulfill the hopes of those who stand behind them cheering. This just doesn’t happen. They learn that students want them to do whatever needs doing because it takes inordinate amounts of time and energy to accomplish it. A lobbyist must do his homework, and we have enough of that as it is. Thus, the starry-eyed representative takes to sitting around complaining of student apathy while students complain of the inaction of representatives.

The question is, what have I done to change the classic paradigm of student politics? Mostly, I have done very unexciting things. Scintillating activities like writing letters, attending meetings, reading reports, and talking, talking, talking. People tend to forget that talk is the tool used to work in a political system, at least one in which money doesn’t change hands. Most of my time has been spent either talking to someone or preparing to do so. It takes as much time to convince an administrator to support a program as it does to convince a philosophy student to help work on it.

No, great works have not been wrought. Yes, students are now involved in budget formulation, the continuance of psychological counseling, etc. What has been my role? I have tried to be a president who energizes people, who can direct students to the appropriate pressure points, who knows the innumerable little facts that allow one to be in the right place at the right time. The right place is at the beginning of the process, often long before a decision—any decision—is made. This involves continual vigilance and the belief that students should be concerned with every decision made at Davidson. There is no decision which does not affect the education and experience a student receives.

The way that I have done this involves work that the average student does not see nor does he care to see it—and rightfully so. That is the reason he elected me. Most of all, I have tried to create two attitudes in the community. First, that students are able to deal aggressively and knowledgeably with any issue. I did this by trying to fulfill it myself and by trying to organize others to launch the assaults. Second, that students not only can make great contributions to any decision, but they have that right as community members and they will exercise it through the appropriate means. We need not always be adversaries, but we certainly cannot be afraid of confrontation. Our efforts have improved relations with trustees and have allowed us to institute programs which have been shot down before.

But enough of theorizing and justifying. When you’ve married politics and philosophy, it leaves you with much more than can be said here. There are variations and addendums, not to mention thank yous (to Earl MacCormac, my advisor, to Jack Bevan, to Sally Stow, ad infinitum). All of it is much more palatable over a good beer, anyway.