Pitts

Page Six

The Davidsonian

February 6, 1975

‘Playing Dead

The chief of the players tells one of his actors the art of dying as Guildenstern and Rosencrantz (bottom right)
look on.

The opening of “Murder on the Orient Express” glistens with electricity as the names Albert Finney, Lauren Bacall, Ingrid Bergman,
Jacqueline Bisset, John Gielgud, Wendy Hiller, Vanessa Redgrave, Rachel Roberts, and Richard Widmark, among others, appear one after the other
on a brilliant field of pink provided by the cinematography of the talented Geoffrey Unsworth. But the movie is jolted
rapidly from the promise of its opening as the stultifying direction of Sidney Lumet takes a firm hold. Only a
few moments escape this death-lock: the movie cannot help but be exciting when either Widmark or Hiller is present, and
there is a wonderful scene toward the end when Lumet manages to exploit the myth-value of his stars with rather
more success than usual.

Lumet is not a director who could wrap his performers in a whirl of mise-en-scène, nor is he a director
who would be likely to make any large demands upon their dramatic abilities. He is a rarity among directors in
that, for some unimaginable reason, he has always preferred fine actors to commonplace ones, and furthermore, he actually manages as
often as not to cast them in roles which ought to work well for them. But he never gives them
any guidance. He accepts good, bad, and uneven acting as though they were all one. With very few exceptions—Ralph Richardson
and Jason Robards in “A Long Day’s Journey Into Night” are obvious ones—the performers in Lumet’s films are more interesting
for what they have done elsewhere than for what they accomplish at present. As is the case in “Murder on
the Orient Express,” where Finney, Balsam, Bergman, Bisset, Cassel, Hiller, Roberts, and Widmark are wasted in roles which suit them
quite nicely, and Bacall, Connery, Gielgud, Perkins, Redgrave, and York are cast slightly ajar.

Gielgud and Perkins are fitted too rigidly according to type. They have played, respectively, the prim, older general and the
neurotic young man too often to be interesting here. Bacall and Connery would be difficult to place well in any
circumstances, for both are innocent of acting abilities. Bacall, however, makes up in beauty and historical value what she lacks
in talent. Connery must be written off as a loss, a virtually inevitable consequence of watching a Lumet movie. Lumet’s
recurring interest in Connery is the worst blot on his casting escutcheon. Any director who allows his personality to be
represented by Connery had best not expect to be held in too fond regard. If what Redgrave does under Lumet
can be taken as any indication of the limitations of her talents—and perhaps it cannot—she is not suited for lower-class
roles. York is normally a fine actor, but here, cast in the nothing role of a dashing romantic lead, he
overacts, trying to make up for the vacuousness of his part, and York’s talent is not for overacting. A good
director would have told him so.

Of the more successful performers, Wendy Hiller and Rachel Roberts are best. The screenplay is a fine but weak one,
and, unfortunately, Hiller and Roberts work within the confines of their roles instead of blasting them to pieces (a much
jollier approach to acting in my opinion, and one which is especially recommended to actors working in films so poor
as “Murder on the Orient Express”). But taking into consideration the confines of their roles, they are brilliant. They have
the power of, and are about as satisfying as, Artur Rubenstein playing the piano with only his left hand. Roberts’
smile at being complimented on her abilities as a cook is a miracle of acting; this is the first cameo
appearance I have seen by her in which she is not totally wasted. Finney, Balsam, Bergman, Bisset, and Cassel all
do fine work though nothing particularly memorable. Like Hiller and Roberts, they must save their full powers for another time.

Most disappointing of all is Sean Connery, who seems to have lost all his charm and vitality, beginning to look
cast-in-bronze.

(Photo by Laura Moses)

By VAN WILLIAMSON
Asst. Features Editor

Vernon Rich was 31 years old, serving a life sentence for first-degree murder, for a crime he committed in 1968,
in Salisbury, N.C. He had worked his way up from Raleigh’s Central Prison to the honor grade status he held
at the Huntersville unit. While there, he expressed an interest in writing, wondering if someone might be interested in working
with and advising him. He found that someone in Davidson Professor of English Tony Abbott. Their first few meetings soon
gave birth to an idea—Vernon suggested a weekly newspaper column on life in prison; Abbott liked the idea, although his
only experience with prisons was the few encounters with Vernon. Wister Jackson, editor of the Mecklenburg Gazette, was also receptive
to the idea, and so in November of 1973, the column began.

Charlie Chaplin, from approximately 1917 to 1925, is the only movie actor who is clearly and outstandingly great: one can
look between the lines of his less inspired moments and still tell a great artist is at work. Chaplin is
to actors what Marie Falconetti is to actresses, a high level of achievement one hardly expects to see equaled in
a century. Beneath Falconetti, there are at least half a dozen great actresses but, beneath Chaplin, the next best actors
are major ones who occasionally rise to greatness. A difference between these actors and Chaplin is that they seem to
be transcending themselves rather than working on their own levels when they rise to greatness. On this second level of
actors is Richard Widmark, whose best period came in the 40s and 50s. Like Garbo, he had a face one
could read innumerable emotions into, even if, perhaps, at the time a particular shot was being made, he may not
have been thinking of anything in particular, or even have been trying to act. A change of lighting or camera
angle could bring a whole novel of new emotions into play. Among the near-great actors, he was the only one
who looked like a great actor; none of the screen’s great actresses looked like great actresses, and Chaplin never looked
like a great actor. Widmark didn’t have to fight against a current, to struggle for the illusion of looking as
he really didn’t look, before he could achieve moments of greatness.greatness. He had a head start and enough acting ability
to carry him the rest of the way. He was an exciting, physical, energetic performer—the kind movies were born to
use; the best performance I have seen by him, in "Pickup on South Street" (1953), is also the most volatile.
I know of no performer who experimented with screen presence as well. Widmark, at 61, is still handsome and a
very fine actor. Though he doesn’t have all the abilities he once had, there remain larger reserves than a director
like Lumet can begin to tap.

What Lumet does—or rather, doesn’t do—with Richard Widmark, who is cast in the role of the murder victim, is often
that they seem to be suffocating in the parts. They are losing their freshness.

By JOE MCMILLAN

For the next five months, Abbott and Vernon, the "bushy-haired" man, as he dubbed himself in the column, co-authored a
weekly column, some columns written together, some by Vernon alone. A man of great natural talent, Vernon learned quickly, struggling
to express all of the complex problems and emotions involved in life without freedom. He wrote of the crowded, inhuman
conditions, of the lack of organization, money, and manpower needed to carry out proper rehabilitation programs, of frustration and loneliness,
of homosexuality in prison, of those who fought back through the system for appeals and re-trials. He tried to examine
the reasons people went to prison, and why they so often came back. Continually educating himself, in literature and law,
he became a "jail-house lawyer," using his few worn law books to aid his fellow "colonists."

In their column, he and Abbott also educated their reading public, giving them glimpses into the monotonous, lonely life of
men in prison—a place Vernon called "a zoo," where men were slowly stripped of their motivation, pride, and humanity. Vernon
disliked the penal institution because "it doesn’t solve anything." And so Vernon worked, from inside prison walls, to try to
change and improve conditions. Together he and Abbott wrote their column, appeared on television and at schools and clubs; Vernon
helped organize a Jaycee chapter at the Huntersville prison unit. His short story, "Just Thinking," was accepted in the Davidson
Miscellany. He was active in working towards penal reform and in improving the Inmates Legal Facility, although he was not
furnished with the North Carolina General Statutes or any law books besides his few personal copies. The struggles had been
hard, but seemed to be paying off. And then on April 29, 1974, Vernon ran, accompanied by two fellow inmates.

Why did Vernon run? Why did he jeopardize what seemed to be such a promising future? No one really knows,
but these words from Vernon’s last column before his escape, ones he wrote entirely on his own, may provide some
insight:

"... I wrote you about five minutes ago a letter about what I was going to do when I got
out. All that future stuff, not realizing the nowness of everything... then as I read it over, I had this
thought... about all the people in this world being in some sort of prison... it may not be bars, concrete,
armed guards and barbed wire like we are in, but still they have a prison... it’s hard for them to
escape... it is hard for them to communicate with others... that’s those incarcerated in other prisons... a few do... lucky
for the others, for they are able to see the many man-made cell blocks..."

After his recapture, Vernon was returned to Central Prison in Raleigh. From there, he has continued to write of the
prison, of his fellow "colonists," and of the need for penal reform. He and Abbott have continued their co-authored column,
featuring many articles by Vernon alone. In his June 5, 1974 column, Vernon wrote of the social reform introduced by
the Quakers 200 years ago, which replaced capital and corporal punishment with imprisonment:

"Quakers, you were wrong, why did it take you so long to realize it? We in the Penal Colony are
a part of your creation... We have been consumed by it... we are in the belly of your monster and
the digestive juices that flow among us, working to excrete us back into society, we are not happy people.

"Most of us know that society looks down upon us even after the monster has swallowed us and spit us
back, and it is hard for us to re-adjust to the norms we were jerked out of by your monster.
We struggle when the going gets tough, we go back to the behavior patterns that we learned for survival in
the alien land of idleness, bars, and concrete.

"We love our country and most of us want to get back to our families and friends and live a
crime-free life. Quakers, if you can change the behavior of your monster which has been bestowed upon you by heir
of those before you... we can change ours... but, we cannot wait another two hundred years."

And now what for Vernon Rich? He is not a man to give up easily. I recall our first meeting
and open discussion on the Lazy-B trial, last fall—I was at first put off by his rather rough manner and
his "I-know-I’m-right, damn it, and-you-should-agree" attitude, but after listening and talking to him, it was evident how much he had
been hard, but seemed to be paying off. And then on April 29, 1974, Vernon ran, accompanied by two fellow
inmates.

Why did Vernon run? Why did he jeopardize what seemed to be such a promising future? No one really knows,
but these words from Vernon’s last column before his escape, ones he wrote entirely on his own, may provide some
insight:

"... I wrote you about five minutes ago a letter about what I was going to do when I got
out. All that future stuff, not realizing the nowness of everything... then as I read it over, I had this
thought... about all the people in this world being in some sort of prison... it may not be bars, concrete,
armed guards and barbed wire like we are in, but still they have a prison... it’s hard for them to
escape... it is hard for them to communicate with others... that’s those incarcerated in other prisons... a few do... lucky
for the others, for they are able to see the many man-made cell blocks..."

After his recapture, Vernon was returned to Central Prison in Raleigh. From there, he has continued to write of the
prison, of his fellow "colonists," and of the need for penal reform. He and Abbott have continued their co-authored column,
featuring many articles by Vernon alone. In his June 5, 1974 column, Vernon wrote of the social reform introduced by
the Quakers 200 years ago, which replaced capital and corporal punishment with imprisonment:

"Quakers, you were wrong, why did it take you so long to realize it? We in the Penal Colony are
a part of your creation... We have been consumed by it... we are in the belly of your monster and
the digestive juices that flow among us, working to excrete us back into society, we are not happy people.

"Most of us know that society looks down upon us even after the monster has swallowed us and spit us
back, and it is hard for us to re-adjust to the norms we were jerked out of by your monster.
We struggle when the going gets tough, we go back to the behavior patterns that we learned for survival in
the alien land of idleness, bars, and concrete.

"We love our country and most of us want to get back to our families and friends and live a
crime-free life. Quakers, if you can change the behavior of your monster which has been bestowed upon you by heir
of those before you... we can change ours... but, we cannot wait another two hundred years."

And now what for Vernon Rich? He is not a man to give up easily. I recall our first meeting
and open discussion on the Lazy-B trial, last fall—I was at first put off by his rather rough manner and
his "I-know-I’m-right, damn it, and-you-should-agree" attitude, but after listening and talking to him, it was evident how much he cared.

Artis Morton Subotnick "Thurber" By William Windom Intimate P.D.Q. Bach Thursday, February 6 all week Watercolors: Ward Jackson 7 p.m.
Catholic Mass 8:15 p.m. 2nd Major Drama "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead" by Tom Stoppard’s hilarious play, directed by Joseph
T. G. and featuring a cast of students. Friday, February 7 2 p.m. Swimming: MI 8:15 p.m. Drama: "Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern Are Dead" 8 & 10:30 p.m. Popular Film: "Rage" Saturday, February 8 8 p.m. Basketball: East Carolina 8:15 p.m.
Drama: "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead" Sunday, February 9 10 p.m. Davidsonian Staff Meeting Tuesday, February 11
