Che Vol. LXIV, No. Fifteen Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036 January 30, 1975

Financiers Face College Endowment

By DON BENSON
Associate Editor

The Davidson College Finance and Development department feels that the college can raise the money needed to maintain present academic
programs and meet the projected needs of a student body of 1500 sought by 1981. Comptroller Robert W. Davidson and
Business Manager Robert A. Currie feel the situation looks optimistic, if much tougher than in the past.

Davidson College runs on a balanced yearly budget. Approximately one half of the college revenue comes from student fees, with
the remainder provided by gifts, grants, and miscellaneous sources. There are no fixed debts for items such as past building
expenditures. Application for enrollment is stable, and according to Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., the school appears to
would-be-donors as well-established and successful in its contributions to society. Currie and Davidson believe that the college can gear its
budget to the available funds. Yet the most significant way to judge the financial future of Davidson College lies in
an examination of its endowment fund.

The endowment is a collection of Davidson investments, often donated to the college in the form of stocks, bonds, real
estate, and deferred giving. These deferred gifts involve future commitments to Davidson on the part of the donors. Davidson may
even manage a trust until a beneficiary dies, the college then receiving the full trust funds. This plan of giving
looks to be a major source for the future of many colleges. Davidson has been relatively late in establishing such
opportunities for donors. The revenue from the Endowment’s investments provides a major portion of the money spent in the annual
budget.

Davidson College’s Endowment has not grown adequately to respond to rising costs of operation and the growth of the student
body. The gradual increasing of the student body to 1500 by 1981 will provide immediate relief to Davidson’s growing costs.
As Robert Davidson explained, “This is because the increased revenue from student fees has exceeded the added expenses in maintaining
a larger student body.” The college has not had to expand plant facilities or administrative staff to accompany this increase.
“The only additions have been in increasing the faculty,” said Currie.

In the future, such an increase in the student body will necessitate a parallel growth in the Endowment. Davidson said,
“Theoretically, we would like the Endowment to generate $2000 per year for each student. As this represents the interests from
our investments, the increase needed in the Endowment will be substantial.” Davidson went on to point out that, “Right now
the Endowment is reflecting the general financial picture. It is not generating quite $1000 per student.”

The problem of meeting present rising costs has been aggravated by the college’s decision to limit enrollment for the immediate
future. The college’s recently completed Self-Study made several recommendations concerning the growth of the Endowment. It called for an increase
in Endowment of between 13.5-15 million dollars by 1981 in order to maintain Davidson’s current level of services. This requires
an average minimum yearly increase to the Endowment of $2.25 million.

For the 73-74 fiscal year, Currie disclosed that the solicitation of gifts for the Endowment had only produced $700,000 as
compared to the $2.25 million deemed necessary in the Self-Study. Currie added, “Much of the college’s fund raising has been
geared toward specific projects, such as the new Little Library, rather than the Endowment.” Currie admitted that the raising of
funds may have slowed during the transition period from C.D. Cornell to Craven Williams as the new Vice-President of Finance
and Development. “The trustees will probably begin diverting larger amounts of the funds raised toward increasing the college’s Endowment Fund,”
Currie projected.

The Self-Study’s prediction was based on several assumptions which Currie and Davidson both agreed may have been underestimated. The report
assumed: (1) a tuition increase of $300 for 1975-76 and $150 per year thereafter; (2) an increase of $75 every
other year in room rent; (3) an inflation of six percent a year to operating costs. No announcement hasbeen made
by the college concerning next year’s tuition. Davidson and Currie both agreed that although it is difficult to predict the
growth of this year’s costs, “Many people say from 10 to 12 percent.” Davidson illustrated by remarking that, “The college
has already used two-thirds of its budgeted money for this year’s utilities.”

The Self-Study’s projections are also based on an assumption that the college’s auxiliary enterprises will break even. Auxiliary enterprises include
the running of dormitories, residences, guest facilities, laundry and dry cleaning, intercollegiate athletics, and the Patterson Fraternity Court. “These services
are designed to break even as a group, which they have done in the past,” Davidson explained. As a group,
the college’s auxiliary enterprises made $21,394.40 last year. The largest profits were in dormitory rent ($79,736) and the consolidated store
($21,787). “All of these profits are returned directly to the auxiliary enterprises for such things as dorm repairs and losing
services such as the laundry and guest facilities,” Davidson said.

The college made $605.09 on the collection of student money for meal tickets. Over $650 was lost in running summer
athletic camps. It is difficult to determine if a segment of the student body is paying an unproportioned share in
supporting these enterprises. Student tuition for the 73-74 fiscal year made up 52.6 percent of the college’s operating costs. Davidson’s
Endowment Fund and special gifts have allowed the college to keep this ratio around 50 percent in the past years.
Davidson did not feel that 52.6 was a significant increase.

Currie and Davidson remarked that student-teacher ratios have risen at Davidson from 9:1 to 12:1 over the past six or
seven years. The Self-Study’s projection of the college’s financial needs was based on a 13:1 ratio. The increase of enrollment
to 1500 was thought to require an addition of two faculty members per year through 1981 in order to maintain
this 13:1 ratio. Asked where the college would be most likely to respond to a possible inability to add 13.5
million dollars to the Endowment, Davidson replied, “Most of the college’s expenses are devoted to salaries and personnel. Outside of
conservation measures in running the physical plant, the college would probably have to consider limiting its academic programs rather than
reducing the caliber of educational services. Cuts might eventually involve the size and compensation of the faculty.” Raising the percent
which tuition pays of operating costs and increasing the student-teacher ratios are other undesirable alternatives.

The college’s future efforts need to be more fully devoted to increasing the Endowment. Both Currie and Davidson assert that
an annual increase of $2.25 million per year is a “reasonable goal for the college’s abilities.” Davidson College’s Self-Study suggested
that the President put one half of his time, and the Vice-President of Academic Affairs one tenth of his time
to the raising of funds. “I have no quarrel with this basic statement, depending on how it’s defined,” Spencer said.
“It’s extremely difficult to define because so much of fundraising is in its broader and sophisticated sense; it’s not just
the call when you literally ask the person for money, but a very long, complicated process.”

Spencer felt that such an increase in the endowment is possible. “The need to build our endowment is why we’ve
established the office of deferred giving.” Spencer felt that a new person might be added to the finance and development
staff within the near future. “You increase as it becomes apparent that it would be productive to do so. A
new person involved in corporate giving would pay for himself almost immediately, I think.”

Davidson’s financial future does not look bright at this moment. Although the economy is tight and the funds for institutions
of higher education are not as available as in the 1960s, the administration is quietly optimistic of the college’s chances
for markedly increasing its fundraising abilities. Yet an increase from $700,000 to $2.25 million a year will take a concentrated
effort by all of Davidson’s administrative personnel. Davidson pointed out that “Many people do not seem seriously concerned with the
college’s growing financial needs.”
