She Davidsonian March 13, 1975 (Photo by Leon Venable)

Hugh Moore

Domestic Situation Shows Other Side Of Iran's Shah

(Ed. Note: Hugh Moore, a former member of The Davidsonian staff, spent the last several months in Iran as a
Peace Corps volunteer.)

By HUGH MOORE

His picture is everywhere. It hangs in every classroom, every government building, and in the shops of the perspicacious street
merchants. The man’s image is engraved on virtually every coin, imprinted on every stamp. In Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi is
shahanshah, king of kings. And now he is actually an international man of power. Henry Kissinger spent four days in
Iran last summer. He was granted an audience with the shah.

The king of Iran is probably the only man in OPEC (the Organization Of Petroleum Exporting Countries) whom everyone heeds.
The press likes him: He’s one of the best customers of Rolls Royce and the St. Moritz ski business. He
saved Pan Am from almost certain disaster. And of course photographers and reporters alike enjoy his attractive well-mannered family. But
after seven months in Iran, this former Peace Corps Volunteer has his doubts about the beneficence of the shah.

I worked as an English teacher in the province of Khuzistan, teaching every student in my town who had been
promoted to the sixth grade. English is compulsory in the Iranian school system. There were 265 students in my classes
at the Guidance School (grades 6-8), but only one student was a girl. She is the only girl in the
town of Gotvand receiving an education above the grade of 5.

The Guidance School was in sad shape when I arrived there in September of last year. The principal and my
three fellow teachers had been placed in this poor little town against their will. Their salaries, about forty-five dollars a
week, were small compensation. Needless to say, the teachers found little sympathy in their hearts for their scraggly group of
pupils. The school itself consisted of six ugly little classrooms and a small office where unhappy teachers could brood. For
the first three weeks of classes, we had no chalk to use on the blackboards. The school had no library
or heating system. Finally, the school janitor put glass in the classroom windows. And he made sure that every class
had a royal portrait above the blackboard. His picture is everywhere.

Trustees Raise Fee Bills

By ANDREW LAMAS
Executive Editor

Davidson College trustees approved several different fee increases totaling $500, during a two-day meeting in Davidson on February 20 and
21. “Tuition fees will rise $300, room fees $65, and board fees $35,” said College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.
Coupled with a $100 increase in summer earnings expected by the Financial Aid office, some students must pay $500 in
additional fees to the college in 1975-76. The trustees also approved a

Six ugly little classrooms and a small office where unhappy teachers could brood. For the first three weeks of classes,
we had no chalk to use on the blackboards. The school had no library or heating system. Finally, the school
janitor put glass in the classroom windows. And he made sure that every class had a royal portrait above the
blackboard. His picture is everywhere.

800 schools and the Army are making college a reality for more young people. About eighteen months ago, the Army
began to develop a bold, new concept in cooperative education, Project Ahead. The program began at one university in the
Midwest. Interest was so great the Army decided to expand it across the country. Today, the program involves more than
800 colleges and universities. And it’s still growing. Project Ahead’s structure is basically simple. But its benefits to young people
and their parentsare enormous. First of all, it is a unique individualized education plan. One that allows you to choose,
if you qualify, an “alma mater” before you enlist. (Normally a participating school in your home area.) So no matter
which college or colleges you attend while in the Army, you’ll know beforehand the courses you'll need for credit at
the school you want to graduate from. Secondly, the Army provides financial aid. College courses are available to you while
you’re in the Army. And the Army will pay up to 75% of the tuition for these courses. (After your
enlistment’s over, you'll be eligible for 36 months of financial assistance under the G.I. Bill.)

Project Ahead

For more information, call your Army Representative at 372-6867

Charlotte. Friday, March 14 8 & 10:30 P.M. D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS: WOODSTOCK Love $1.00

balanced budget for 1975-1976, set at $7.5 million, a 10 percent increase over 1974-1975. The new budget includes a $100,000
increase in utility costs, mainly contributed by the new E. H. Little Library,” stated one administration official. Increases in salaries
and benefits for “all members of the college family, especially those at the lower end of the scale for whom
such a large portion of incomes goes to such basic expenses as fuel and food, will be made,” according to
Spencer.

On the income side, the college has been aided by several major new gifts and grants, totaling about one and
one half million already during 1974-1975. There will actually be a slight increase in operating income from the endowment, in
spite of the low stock market. This is because the budget office averages the money it takes from endowment earnings
over a three-year period, and the somewhat productive years of 1972 and 1973 offset the poor market results of 1974.
Financial aid officials are hopeful that “some relief will come from the state to students who need financial aid. Such
appropriations proposals are now being considered by the legislature, however, since they have as yet not been adopted, the college
cannot depend on them for 1975-1976.

In another area, the Trustees declined to raise the laundry fees. The total comprehensive fees for 1975-1976 will be $4,120.
Concerning housing arrangements for next year, the Trustees made several new policies. The remainder of the Carnegie building will be
converted into a guest house. The present guest house, Martin Manor, and the Brickel’s home will also be used for
student housing next year. The new housing arrangement in the Carnegie building “leaves open the option of converting it to
full student housing at a later date,” remarked Spencer.

The Trustees also moved one step closer toward passage of the new college constitution during their two-day meeting. “They went
through the necessary formalities of putting that matter on the docket for the May meeting,” commented Spencer. The final vote
concerning the new constitution will be in May. Assuming the proposal passes, the constitution will be put into use in
September.

TONY AWARD WINNER Love Written and Directed By Joseph A. Walker “Its blackness is beautiful,” Wednesday, March 19 Tickets on
sale in the College Union BEST PLAY 1974 TIME MAGAZINE AWARD CRITICS CIRCLE AWARD DRAMA DESK AWARD Bieta Clive Barnes,
N.Y. Times 8 P.M.

Beer Wine & Spring 3 At The Peregrine House 115 North Main Hours: Mon.-Wed.—8:00 A.M.-7:30 P.M. Thurs.-Sat.—8 A.M.-1 A.M. Sun.—12
Noon-10:00 P.M.
