December 5, 1975

The Davidsonian

By CATHY LANDIS
Asst. Features Editor

Some people go to Davidson football and basketball games to watch the game. Others go to watch the cheerleaders.

The Davidson cheerleading squad is more than entertainment. They are an organized team of individuals who take their job seriously.

“I hate to see people think of the traditional stereotype of a cheerleader that says if you’re a cheerleader you
have an inferior mentality,” said one member.

Led by their captain Carol Connors, the squad consists of Shaune Robertson, Howard Payne, Susan Baynard, Bob Schermer, Kathy Wilson,
Bill Vaughn, Jane Perkins, Dick Boehner, Andrea Murphy, and Ed Crossland.

All but two of the girls have been cheerleaders outside of Davidson. None of the men have had previous cheerleading
duties.

The squad attends all of the home games and many of the away games. They practice a minimum of three
times a week before every game.

In August, six of the members attended a cheerleading camp at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville. Along with teams
from other schools, they underwent a week of intensive training.

They worked continually from 8 a.m. until 9 p.m. in the hot, muggy Knoxville weather. “We were sore,” one member
commented, “but camp was definitely worth it, especially to those who have never been cheerleaders before,” she added.

As tangible proof of the team’s progress, they carried away two ribbons for performance, one honorable mention and one excellent,
in the nightly rating sessions.

With all of the effort that the squad puts into cheering, some members feel that the Davidson student body is
behind them “only when we're winning.” He added that it takes a great deal to please the average Davidson fan.

During basketball season, the crowds usually don’t need to be led in cheers. But the Davidson fans are fairly traditional.
The squad learned many new cheers at camp but cannot get the students interested in any but the older cheers.
“We’d just like the students to participate more.”

The hardest part of cheerleading that the team has encountered thus far has been to keep on cheering when the
team is losing. “But we're supposed to be the ones to keep on cheering. We realize this and so we
still try whether or not anybody in the stands does.”

The squad works with a budget of approximately $1200 with a $250 uniform expense. Most of the money is spent
on traveling to games away from school.

Cheerleading is played down at Davidson. Yet the squad is enthusiastic about the program. “Everyone on the squad really enjoys
what they’re doing, and there’s a lot of spirit in the group. Everyone feels a kind of responsibility to the
school.”

Most of the members cheer in order to have fun and to get some exercise. “When we get out there
we really don’t want to perform; we just want people to get involved.”

What do they have to say to the Davidson Campus, to the world? One member answered simply, “Rah!”

Parks Rexall Drugs

COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

892-0208

ADVERTISEMENTS YOU READ EACH WEEK IN THE DAVIDSONIAN MEET OUR STANDARDS FOR FAIR AND ETHICAL PRESENTATION OF QUALITY PRODUCTS AND
SERVICES.

SUPPORT YOUR ADVERTISERS.

TELL THEM YOU SAW THEIR AD IN THE DAVIDSONIAN.

Kathy Wilson and Bill Vaughan - Robert Trawick exhibit the cheerleading skills gained by hours of practice.

Cotton Flannel Shirts
$7.99 to $12.99

Mooresville - Only 6 Miles North
