Twelve

The Davidsonian

May 15, 1975

Neo-classical raft drifts on high seas

By VINCE RABIL

I cannot write of the changes that have taken place during my four years of study here and expect it
to be more than a superficial listing of “official” decisions and changes which are obvious to us all. It will
be years before we know what really happened here.

The real “evolutions” that take place here are the invisible revolutions in the attitudes of those who pass through this
ritual of liberal education.

“Evolution” occurs without our awareness. All of a sudden it is upon us. It involves the falling away from old
traditions, and it witnesses the birth of new ones.

I doubt very seriously that many members of my class are going to leave here new men. Davidson’s role is
to preserve the spirit of the hard-working, Christian, academics who come here.

I do not believe the evolution of Davidson takes place independently of the rest of society. We believe we have
an Ivory Tower here, but I am afraid we have only a neo-classical raft adrift in the same sea of
undergraduate education in the private sector that other schools drift in.

Davidson fundamentally is not unique. It has only symbolic distinctions that in reality make us no more than what we
are individually.

As the years go by Davidson picks up more statistics of vitality with which to undergird the transcendent myth of
the Davidson education. We’ve destroyed an old Union, built a new library, picked up a couple of new Rhodes Scholars,
gone coed, and rekindled the Fraternal fires.

Somehow I feel this column is meant to chronicle the ways I used to raise hell Freshman year as opposed
to the ways I raise hell now; to be witty and cute; and to either condone, condemn or cynicize, and
play “remember when.”

These things are not important; I believe the important things have not changed here: neither the school nor us. The
guidance office could predict how we all would perform here when we came, even before we came. So we came
and, I might say, have performed exceedingly well our foreordained roles. It’s no surprise who got what.

I have had a very colorful record here--to use the words of my faculty advisor--and have had a range of
experience which I believe has given me several unusual insights into what happened to me and us since the summer
of ’71.

It would be pointless to rehash what we all know, but for the benefit of those who are new here
and still want to make it as a Davidson man, I have decided to give a few do’s and don’ts
to help out. These are the things I’ve learned in four years at Davidson.

Introspection is bad. The Davidson man must always be certain that he is in possession of a superior intellect, in
a superior school, and by right, will be a great leader when he leaves.

If you want to get along, you’ve got to go along.

Do the work, always do the work. Get that grade no matter what, and remember--brown-nosing is not an honor violation.

—Leon Venable

A painting by Vince Rabil and exhibited in Chambers lobby presently.

“Knowledgeability is the same as genuine knowledge. As long as you can master the arts of persuasion, you will always
be right.”

Be athletic. Get those P.E. credits early. Play intramurals.

Be a lady’s man. Remember, next to your education and future profession, sex is the most important thing in life.

Never trust an atheist. Secularism is out to destroy the world, and our job is to beat the hell out
of those nihilist activists who are causing it.

God did not die. Fred Nietzsche said he did, but he was wrong. Anyway, Nietzsche went insane and Hitler used
his “philosophy.”

There is nothing wrong with academia. The Ph.D. is not intellectual castration. Grades and degrees are always reflections of your
knowledge and credibility. Pure intellectualism outside the walls of academia is subversive and not practical.

Do not study anything you will not get credit for or which will cut into course work.

Your goal is to lead a rich and prosperous life, tempered with a little service and “stewardship.” Remember the world
is changed in bits and pieces and if we all just did our part everything would work out.

Modern art is real culture. But you have much more important things to do.

After the peace movement, consumerism is the best activist thing to do. Nader would never rip off a college student.

Knowledgeability is the same as genuine knowledge. As long as you can master the arts of persuasion, you will always
be right.

The real question facing man is how to achieve justice in the world, not to confront all the untruths with
which we live--a partial listing of which may be found above.

Mitchem Opticians

Fast & Accurate Service

Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician

- Prescriptions Filled
- Glasses Repaired
- Glasses Adjusted
- Sunglasses

206 N. Main
Ph. 663-3942
Mooresville
