November 7, 1975

The Davidsonian

Ye History

A passionate leader, a historical character, was none too into our consciousness: the drama department perhaps Roylance feels with his
role itself.

As Henry Cabot, a convincing adversary, he assumes his portrayal as too strong for the narrative, but this does not
take away from his performance.

Marsh as Clemens and Fay as Orlando provide a (rarely) refreshing component at a point at which the drama is
beginning to go beyond the audience.

Wilson, either dramatically or historically, is a difficult task for anyone to tackle. This difficulty is confounded in drama by
yet another problem: successfully doing justice to a man and a time of such complexity in two-and-a-half hours.

This, I think, is perhaps an insurmountable problem of all historical drama. The tendency is, moreover, to reduce the hero
of historical drama either to demonic or messianic proportions.

"Wilson" tries to tie the diffuse period of time together by linking scene by scene with the aid of audio-visual
effects. In the play, however, these effects have the reverse effect: the time element becomes confused rather than clarified.

Poor in quality, the newsreels, tapes, and slides muddle, instead of enlighten, the audience.

"Man and Frog": Menard uses drab skin colors to contrast with the frog.

Although in substance accurate, "Wilson" does contain some needless historical falsities. The Prologue has House returning from a European peace
mission in March 1917, that never took place; Lodge is depicted as chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in
1917, when, in reality, he assumed that post in 1919.

"Wilson," it must be emphasized, is still a play in embryonic form. The play, for example, was cut from a
length of four hours to two-and-a-half. Those who see "Wilson" next weekend will witness further adaptation, particularly in the sequence
of Act II.

"Wilson," despite its shortcomings, does accomplish its primary purpose—giving dramatic life to a moot historical figure.

-Laura Moses

An interesting part of Schmitt’s work is the background he gives his compositions. He employs zig-zag patterns which both distract
from and incorporate the human subjects in his work. With this insanity as a backdrop, Schmitt’s women stare blandly and
contort their bosoms.

B. F. Maiz will speak on poetry, ghettos, drugs, and prisons Monday at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Bandwagon

Friday, November 7, 1975
All Week — Prints and Drawings: Stowe Galleries
Becker, Kitta, Mackie, Menard, Schmitt

All Day 16th Annual Sacred Music Convocation Hodson Hall, DCPC

All Day Robert Harrison: Conversation Pit Drew Seminary

10 am Speaker: Louis Davidson Banquet Hall

8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: "Jane Eyre" Love Auditorium

8:15 pm Drama Production: "Wilson" Hodson Hall

9 & 10 pm Coffeehouse: "Easy Steam" 900 Room

Saturday, November 8, 1975

All Day 16th Annual Sacred Music Convocation Hodson Hall, DCPC

1:30 pm Football: Lehigh Davidson
Cross Country: Furman, Greenville, SC NCAA Region III Meet

8:15 pm Drama Production: "Wilson" Hodson Hall

9 & 11 pm Coffeehouse: "Easy Steam" 900 Room

Monday, November 10, 1975

9 am Interviews: Duke University School of Business Meeting Room

8 pm B. F. Maiz—Black Poet Love Auditorium

8:15 pm Student Recital Hodson Hall

9 pm NC PIRG Morrison Room

Tuesday, November 11, 1975

9 am University of Virginia School of Business Meeting Room

10 am Questions & Answers with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room

10 am Extern Meeting (Informational Meeting on Extern Program) 900 Room

7 pm Worship Service DCPC

Wednesday, November 12, 1975

4 pm Films: "Interviews with My Lai Veterans" and "Silencers" Honors Center

8 pm Fine Film: "Alexander Nevsky" Love Auditorium

Lisa Mackie is equally as colorful in her work. In her compositions, naked women are associating with nature in swarms
of vestal color straight from Kleenex tissue.

Mackie is adept at using color and background to create a feeling of depth in her compositions. Light fades toward
darkness, and images become blurred from Mackie’s foregrounds to her backgrounds.

The pastels tend to make Mackie’s people seem vulnerable and soft. Because of this softness, Mackie’s subjects achieve an otherworldliness
and intensity as they regard the nature that surrounds them.

The women are not merely living within nature; they seem to be cohabitating with it. Her stock in trade is
the juxtaposition of situations, similar to Menard’s. She suggests that these situations show her feelings. What a feeling it must
be to come home to a goat!

David Becker teaches art at Wayne State University in Detroit. He employs the intaglio print, making his work appear like
it is just fresh from illustrating an old book. The subjects for Becker’s compositions are little, misshapen people. They seem
to be on a picnic. The stumpy bodies are either standing around dumbly or off in the woods removing their
clothes in childish shame.

Helmut Schmitt, whose parents were missionaries, presents a series of pencil drawings showing women squeezing their breasts, oblivious to whatever
is going on around them. The effect is that the subjects seem insane or distracted. One might feel that these
women were under some kind of spell and will eventually go back to whatever they had been doing.

Lloyd Menard has had 75 shows since 1964. His work in "Strange Sensibilities" involves man in the peculiar situation of
being in bodily contact with animals. A woman is in a sleeping bag with a giant beetle between her breasts.
A man is kissing a giant pet frog. Menard’s use of color is drab with regards to the human flesh.
The color in his compositions comes from the animals he uses; the creatures in the compositions are the instruments of
visual excitement.
