Taking note — Leon Venable

Goals Committee members listen to suggestions from students, faculty on college priorities.

The Vol. LXIV; No. Twenty-one

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

All eyes on Stair

Goals Committee Chairman Fred Stair stands to announce the agenda at Wednesday's open session. — Leon Venable

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036 March 27, 1975

Goals Committee hears college needs

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

Davidson will celebrate its 150th birthday in 12 years. The Trustee’s Development Committee established last February a committee composed of
students, faculty, administrators, and trustees to project goals the college should work toward meeting by 1987. Trustee Fred Stair, chairman
of the Goals Committee, suggested that the committee work in three areas to accomplish its tasks.

At the beginning of a meeting Wednesday evening, he said that the committee should work to develop a succinct theme
for 1987, state the goals implicit within this theme, and finally, set priorities in accomplishing these goals.

Earlier Wednesday afternoon, the Goals Committee held a public hearing to gather information about the varied concerns of the college
community. The meeting was attended by individuals representing diverse interests at Davidson, but most of their expressions of concern may
be classified into three interlocking areas: the quality of life at Davidson, facilities at Davidson, and the college’s academic program.

The purpose of the evening meeting was to analyze comments made by the individuals at the hearing. Despite this stated
objective and Stair’s opening statements, the Goals Committee was unclear about its purpose or usefulness until near the close of
the meeting.

A discussion of the quality of life at Davidson ran intermittently throughout the public hearing and touched on the subjects
of lack of money for social functions, student-faculty relationships, and student services such as the construction of an adequate infirmary
and improved psychological counseling for students. Sophomore Marc Menchel explained that the Union does not have adequate funds to sponsor
big-name entertainment groups throughout the year. Junior Dan Thorp expressed concern over the general quality of life at Davidson, and
specifically protested the cancellation of funds for the lecture series and the artist series next year.

Concerning student-faculty relationships, Professor of Philosophy George Abernethy commented, “We ought to be reducing the student-faculty ratio from one to
13 to one to 10 or one to 11... You’re basically going to have to decide whether you’re interested in
expanding or interested in improving the quality you have.” Vice-President for Academic Affairs John Bevan cautioned that latching onto student-faculty
ratios is an inadequate way to measure relationships. “Students should see in professors the quality of life that the liberal
arts tradition purports,” he added.

According to Junior Mark Wilensky, many of the buildings on campus do not meet safety standards. He cited the Martin
Chemistry Building and the lack of fire doors in Love Auditorium as examples. Both students and faculty were concerned about
inadequate facilities, especially for chemistry students, art students, and in athletics. Professor of Art Herb Jackson said that the art
department cannot operate satisfactorily within its present facilities. “There will be no Davidson National after next year under present circumstances,”
he added. Director of Athletics Thomas Cartmill said, “Johnston Gym is for the entire student body. We’re looking for a
facility that could encompass varsity, intramural, and physical education activities.” Others present advised that the women’s athletics program especially needs
improvement.

Professor of Chemistry Ralph Gable advised that Davidson should evaluate its academic program. Gable said that the college is moving
“toward more individualized instruction and research and...that such methods of instruction are “tremendously expensive.” Concerning the future, Gable added that
Davidson must ask itself, “What will we be expecting from students and what will they be expecting from us?” Professor
of English Gill Holland proposed that interdepartmental major programs be formulated and that the college seriously consider publishing a literary
journal comparable to the Sewanee Review or Shenandoah. Abernethy commented that Davidson has an “unparalleled opportunity since 1940” to improve
the academic quality of its faculty. He advised that a full-time Dean of the Faculty be appointed to seek out
new and promising faculty members. Abernethy also suggested that Davidson initiate an intensive program to recruit students from lower-class backgrounds.
(See COMMITTEE, page 6)

Senate retains Kline for legal assistance, Determines three general priority areas
By MARK GERGEN
Staff Writer

The Senate voted to retain the law firm of Cannon and Kline to assist with the Bill of Rights in
Tuesday’s meeting. Rick Kline was present at the meeting to answer questions. He stated, “It’s my understanding that your principal
concern is with a student Bill of Rights. It appears to me that you are looking for draftsmanship and a
general legal background.” Kline added that he could provide this. He stated that he didn’t have any specific experience in
this area, but he could not see any difficulties.

Former SGA President Blain Butner stated that there was a need for outside legal assistance. He specifically mentioned that the
College’s lawyer, Larry J. Dagenhart, was “adequate.” He added, “When you consider anything like this it is important to have
input from more than one person.” Butner went on to state, “Larry Dagenhart is a very good lawyer, but he
is the College’s lawyer. Somebody like Rick (Kline) would be more to our leaning.” Bo Baskin reported on alternative choices.
Baskin stated, “Mr. Kline’s advantages are that he is close and available right now... His problems are that he doesn’t
have that much experience and he is going to need student help.” Other firms studied were Blum and Sheely, who
were turned down last week; Gasey and Daley, and Louis Lesaine. The resolution was passed 11-2-0. The provisions were a
$250 salary plus expenses.

Steve Smith reported that a recent student questionnaire distributed to 150 students at random elicited only seven responses. The Senate
passed a resolution stating the goals the Senate thought were most important. Improvements were called for in three basic areas.
First, general endowment for scholarships, faculty salaries, and research. Second, adequate academic programs, specifically in Art and Chemistry. Third, an
improvement in the quality of life at Davidson, specifically in the areas of the College Union, adequate on-campus housing, and
athletics.

The Senate failed to pass a budget request due to a loss of quorum. This came before a decision on
counseling and whether the Senate should hire Amelia Dockery for one day a week. Senators absent: Bill Clark, Bill Green,
John Guthrie, Tom Jones, Bob Palmer, Patty Phillips, and Tony Snow. It was the third meeting Clark has missed and
the second for Green, Guthrie, Jones, and Snow. Holt Foushee was present, but he has also missed two.

In other actions, Randy Sherill managed to become SGA President John Munce’s Senator for Richardson Dorm. There was no opposition.
Brad Swallwell reported on the Senate’s budget request going to the Campus Tax Council. The request is a decrease of
$330 from last year. The elimination of the Course Evaluation Handbook and a large reduction in the Speaker Fee were
responsible for the decrease.
