Twelve The Davidsonian \ April 17, 1975

Writing is on the wall

By JOHN WOOD
Staff Writer

In the bathrooms of France, England, and Germany, written upon the stall doors and walls, people are reading: "Lex Veazey has Hawaiian Disease." This piece of graffiti is seen as well in the bathrooms of several American campuses, namely, Davidson College. According to Lex Veazey, a Davidson senior, a friend of his wrote the first "Lex Veazey has Hawaiian Disease" on the third floor of Belk dormitory in the 1972-73 school year; it has since spread like wildfire. Veazey, who has lived in Hawaii, did not know of any such disease and added that it was not V.D.

Davidson College is littered with subtle puns, philosophical platitudes, and perverse scrawls and pictures of graffiti. It is an age-old medium used at one time for peoples’ art forms and messages, but now only for the amusement of truck drivers, traveling salesmen (it is often found in roadside restrooms), and apparently, college students.

"Graffiti and slang are generally expressions of the common man," said Douglas S. Looney in a recent article on the subject in the National Observer. In light of Davidson graffiti, maybe he has a point. "Lex Veazey has Hawaiian Disease," "Beware of Limbo Dancers," and "What’s an Eppa Rixey" are repeatedly scattered over the walls of Davidson bathrooms. How should one react to "Death" scrawled all over the once clean beige of a Chambers bathroom stall, "A Clean slate--rejoice!" "Where have the words gone?"

Va. company insures students

By BRUCE CORSER
Contributing Editor

About eighty percent of the students at Davidson are insured by the North American Assurance Society of Va. under the college insurance program. But of these 959 students, relatively few know many of the specific provisions of the policy.

First, the policy is effective for a twelve-month period between September 1, 1974, and September 1, 1975, and provides protection 24 hours per day during the term of the policy for each student insured. Students are covered on and off campus, at home, or while traveling between home and school and during interim vacation periods. This insurance supplements services of the Infirmary and pays in addition to other insurance the student may carry except in the case of motor vehicle accidents covered by other insurance.

According to Robert A. Currie, business manager, the program provides good coverage and since it is a group plan, the premiums are less expensive than they are for comparable coverage.

When a student contracts a sickness during the term of the policy and is confined to a hospital room, he may be reimbursed up to $40 per day for hospital room and board up to 30 days confinement. The student is also allowed a maximum of $20 for miscellaneous hospital expenses. When confined to the Infirmary, there is a $4 per day service charge for meals up to a maximum of 30 days. A student may receive $10 for medicine prescribed by the college physician and $10 for medicine prescribed by the college physician and administered by the Infirmary for the first three days immediately following discharge from the Infirmary.

The premium rate for each student for one year is $30. For the 1973-74 year, North American collected $23,900 from 959 students. They paid out a total of $17,421, though this figure does not account for a variety of taxes, commissions, and claim administration. A total of $13,644 was paid for accident and sickness claims, $2,177 was paid for Infirmary stays, and a $1,600 reserve is being held.

Robert A. Currie.TT SAA AAS TA SATS S ALTA TERRES TSE toe + eeeee FeuUeeeSSSTSOSSCSSSSEFeseeoeseeesesasesesSese2eoesese SSCHCHSSSSSSSHSHSSHSSSHSSSSSSSHSSHSSSSSCSSHSSSOHSSSCOSOSLSSSZETSOLSSESESEEEEES

“Gone?” “Doubt nihilism” and “No bout a doubt it!” Is this Davidson’s elite core? Come on. What have any of these graffiti told us and how is it that at a college where academians and scholars exude, none of their knowledge has rubbed off on the walls? One would assume that a college student could come up with something far more imaginative than— “Frodo was here.”

And then there are the obscenities. Unfortunately, the only drawings in the men's rooms are those of a dirty and lewd nature. Obscene graffiti that do appear are juvenile, simple, and could easily be mistaken for those of a truck stop or skid row bar. But then one’s interest perks to an occasional “Why?” or reaches out to the nervous freshman who told the world he was “scared to death.”

The humor. And there is always the humor, “Dave Wiley is teaching a new math course for Religion majors and graffiti freaks; Sadistics 69” and assertions, “AH HA!” and the pseudo-sophistication of “Eat it solipsistic sycophants” that take at least a little imagination and thought. There is also the therapeutic wall that some find need for: “Death to Administration pigs censoring free exchange of student ideas.”

But what the Davidson graffiti lacks in cleverness it refuses to make up for in accuracy. Aside from being scribbled and scrawled sloppily around the stall, many of the words are misspelled, sentences grammatically wrong, and, when more than five words are involved, verbose. Maybe a style booklet is in order for all the stalls?

Juxtaposed to the hasty doodles of the American campus walls, V. Pritchard, author of “English Medieval Graffiti,” found that a graffito then was worked with craftsmanship and a knowledge of drafting.

Written in privacy. Graffiti are written in privacy as well, for this reporter found very little of them, if any at all, in stalls with no doors. It is also found most often in stalls with the largest writable surface in the area of the commode. With the exception of only a few, most graffiti is written within reach of the commode. Outside of a few acts of vandalism, no graffiti is found on the porcelain hopper.

Kinds of graffiti vary from commentary phrases and clichés to dialogues between unknown parties. The erasures of which, by the janitors, are what some students reacted to most vehemently. Some of the graffiti are monologues directed didactically at the other graffiti: “Through the lineage of your most astute observation we can claim nothing less than you are shitting in the commode in the stall, not in the stall per se. To forsake the components in totality of your statement would be an injustice to logical perfection.”

Castigator of the Stall. Often the castigator of the stall graffiti uses quotes from such authors as George Orwell: “Pretentious diction and superfluous quotes serve merely to mask one’s own ignorance” and Mark Twain: “It is better to remain quiet and be thought a fool than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.”

Sex and sarcasm are the only motivation for the few attacks on administration or faculty. There were far more instances where students were named, but many of those were only used to perpetrate a signature or in critique of someone’s graffito. Graffiti that included true or false questions, honor rolls, and clichés were written with pen and ink mostly, with the occasional use of pencil and Flair pens to write in normally a cursive style.

One graffitist summed Davidson graffiti on one wall of Belk dormitory by saying: “A recent study on the graffiti of stall 42 shows that 83% of all comments are either stupid, old, or very cliché. Come on—either write something clever or give up!”