February 6, 1975 The Davidsonian Seven

Despite Prison Bars

fellow “colonists,” need for penal reform have continued. Authored column, many articles by Vernon. In a 1974 column, he wrote
of the social issues produced by the system years ago, which included capital and corporal punishment. You were wrong, it
took you so long to realize. We in the Penal system are a part of your society. We have been
convicted, we are in the monster, and the juices that flow are working to excrete us from society. We are
not unaware that society looks upon us even after it has swallowed us back, and it is hard to adjust
to the norms we were kicked out of by your society. We struggle when the going gets tough, we go
back to our patterns that ensured survival in the alien environment of bars and confinement. We want to get back
to our country and our families and friends and a free life. Quakers, change the behavior of the monster which
has been imposed upon you by the heir of society. We can help, but we cannot do it alone.

Vernon is not a man to give up. I recall our first open discussion about the Lazy-B trial last fall.
I was put off by his rather stern demeanor and his “I-know-it-all, and-you-don’t” attitude, but after listening and talking to
him, I realized how much he cared about this case and all such cases. He argued that the best way
to help the Lazy-B defendants was through the system, by correctly using the legal processes that had perhaps been used
improperly initially. And Vernon had been proved correct. Since being at Central Prison, Vernon has continued to fight for his
fellow inmates and for reforms, helping to organize the North Carolina Prisoners’ Labor Union. Vernon’s own case is now on
trial, and much of his future will be decided by its outcome. If he wins, his opportunities to work towards
his goals of improvement will be much greater; if he does not win, the struggle begins again. Either way, Vernon
has a chance to contribute, to make it happen.

Happenings This Week
By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

The Pineville Dinner Theatre is presenting “Oklahoma” through Feb. 9, performances beginning at 8:30 p.m. From the 10th through the
end of this month they present “Cabaret,” also at 8:30. The Mint Hill Dinner Theatre presents the play “Luv” throughout
February. On the 12th, the Mint Museum Drama Guild opens its production of Eugene O’Neill’s “A Touch of The Poet,”
with Kit Harding and Robert Pierce. On the music scene, Jerry Butler plays at the Landmark Hotel in Charlotte from
the 10th to the 15th. The group “Four Freshmen” performs in Raleigh through the 11th, while “Liverpool” comes to Greensboro
on the 8th. Bobby G. Rise

By CARL SCHWARTZ
Staff Writer

The organ music of Jehan Alain (1911-1940) has a universal appeal lacking in much contemporary music, particularly in music written
for the organ. A selection of his works is featured in a Musical Heritage Society release (MHS-868; 1991 Broadway; N.Y.,
N.Y. 10023) recorded for Erato in France by his younger sister Marie-Claire. While a student of such great musicians as
Paul Dukas, Roger Ducasse, and Marcel Dupre, he was at the same time associated with the “Young France” group: present-day
greats like Olivier Messiaen and Maurice Durufle. It is no surprise then to find both neo-classical formalism and neo-romantic tendencies
side by side in his music. Throughout his works is an intense state of expression.

Subotnick
William Windom
P.D.Q. Bach
February 6
Watercolors: Ward Jackson
Catholic Mass
Artist Series
2nd Major Drama Production
Tues., Feb. 11
Thurs., Feb. 20
Tues., March 11
Stowe Galleries
Lingle Chapel
Hodson Hall
“Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead”
Tom Stoppard’s hilarious retelling of Hamlet is directed by Joseph T. Gardner and stars a large cast of students.

February 7
Swimming: VMI
Drama: Johnston Gym
Hodson Hall
“Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead” 8:00 p.m.
Popular Film: “Rage”

February 8
Basketball: East Carolina (WDAV Broadcast) 8:00 p.m.
Drama: Love Auditorium
Greenville, N.C.
Hodson Hall
“Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead”

February 9
Davidsonian Staff Meeting
Newspaper Office

February 11

leading painters and printmakers. Also at the Mint, beginning the 13th, will be the Ed Reep exhibit, mounted in the
Garden Gallery. Reep is artist in residence at ECU. The Mid-Atlantic Boat Show will be at the Charlotte Civic Center
through the 9th. Hours are noon to 10 p.m. Wednesday through Saturday, and 1 p.m. to 7 p.m. Sunday.The music
scene, Jerry Butler plays at the Landmark Hotel in Charlotte from the 10th to the 15th. The group ‘Four Freshmen’
performs in Raleigh through the 11th, while ‘Liverpool’ comes to Greensboro on the 8th. Bobby G. Rice will be in
Jacksonville and the ‘Worth-Crow Duo’ in Lexington on the 8th and 10th respectively.

At the same time, his music puts great emphasis on powerful rhythmic patterns akin somewhat to Messiaen’s more complex use
of rhythmic patterns. His use of harmonic color also shows an influence that manifests itself in Messiaen’s music, but while
he uses unresolved dissonances frequently, the sound of his harmonies, like Duruflé’s, is more akin to the “traditional” harmonies used
by the preceding generation—composers like Debussy, Ravel, and Dukas. What would have been the result of the musical style that
he was developing no one can know for sure: in June 1940, Jehan Alain fell in the defense of Saumur
during the Battle of France. “Litanies” (1935), his most famous work, is a litany based on a medieval plainchant theme
repeated over powerful harmonies.

5 p.m. Swimming: Johnston Gym
7 p.m. Worship Service: DCPC
8 p.m. Basketball: Lexington, Va. VMI (WDAV Broadcast)
8:15 p.m. Artist Series: Love Auditorium
Morton Subotnick Lights, film, and electronic music are the elements of a performance by this artist, whom Rolling Stone calls
“perhaps the most accomplished user of the electronic synthesizer as a pure sound device.” Subotnick, whose albums include “Silver Apples
of the Moon,” “Touch,” and “Sidewinder,” brings experiential chamber music.

10 p.m. “The Trees Group” Banquet Hall

Wednesday, February 12
10 a.m. “The Trees Group” Banquet Hall
6 p.m. Women’s Basketball: Johnston Gym Wingate
7 p.m. Union Board Meeting Morrison Room
8 p.m. Fine Film: Love Auditorium “The Swimmer” A suburbanite swims home from a party via his neighbor’s pools, with
neighborly responses ranging from the cordial to the bizarre. Starring Burt Lancaster.

10 p.m. “The Trees Group” Banquet Hall

Thursday, February 13
10 a.m. Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
Guest Speaker: Marx W. Wartofsky, Professor of Philosophy, Boston U.

Alain Builds Multi-Textured Harmony
It is a translucent tapestry of shimmering harmonies and intertwined rhythms laid out in regular sections that are un- classical
registrational changes. A static piece, the sound just hangs in mid-air. The “Second Fantasy” consists of two themes treated over
and over in turn as the intensity of the sound increases and the accompaniments become more complex. After the climax,
it ends with a gentle variation on the first theme. The entire second side of the recording is taken up
by the “Three Dances: Joy, Grief, and Struggles,” the third being his last work. Of all the music he wrote,
this suite best sums up his musical ideas: he was actually scoring it for full orchestra when the war took
his life. All the elements of his style are here: powerful rhythms, colorful harmonies, fine musical ideas and form, all
combining together to make a fascinating and moving piece of music. The last movement has significance in the development of
his style: the unresolved dissonance not only says something about the subject of the dance but might be taken to
imply that he has resolved a stylistic struggle and was moving into even bolder use of dissonance. This is really
his masterpiece.

The performance of these works is musical, tasteful, full of energy and sympathy to the composer’s intent. Nothing less can
be expected from Marie-Claire Alain and any criticisms are really a discussion of relative degrees of excellence. My only complaint
is her tempo: She always tends to play a bit fast but the result is always very musical. It may
be that this was her brother’s style as well, and this seems to be implied in her comments and writings
about her brother. The instrument is very fine, has a clear ensemble, and is well balanced. This is a fine
recording to own and should offer enjoyment.
