the davidsonian

September 26, 1975

—14

Several games rained out —

Freshmen pull upsets in flickerball

If, and only if, this were the best of all possible worlds, IMAC sports would indeed be enjoyable.

A ref would be more relaxed and able to make more correct calls, as players would not have their teeth sunk into his back.

Play would be spontaneous.

Losses would provide no disappointment or frustration (a thing which abounds here on campus due to a lack of regression). And, of course, it would never rain.

However, seeing how the opening day provided two rain-outs and two victories for freshman teams, we are faced with the startling conclusion that this is not the best of all possible worlds. And, therefore, the IMAC situation is nothing as described above.

Basically, an IMAC player is like a Puritan—one who lives with the haunting fear that someone, somewhere is happy.

Likewise, IMAC players live in the constant fear that some game, somewhere is being played fairly and for pleasure.

They can’t take that chance, though, because playoff time is always looming ahead, as are those prestigious Patterson Court points.

SAE’s and KA’s practice early with vigorous ball-handling drills. SPE’s have a secret playbook written in blood (punishable by death upon its loss).

And freshmen don’t seem to be able to get it out of their heads that a high school football coach is no longer looking over them to ensure the proper amount of salivation and knee-crushing blocks.

Therefore, an IMAC player tends generally to be a frustrated jock who may also be a nerd, a spaz, a pigeon-eyes, or any other name you care to think of.

Fellas, let’s have a good year. Let’s be the best group of guys to work with on and off the field. Let’s be kind, generous, and get “whack-oed” before every game.

Now some of you cretans out there might quote the late Vince Lombardi (no doubt part of your poly-sci reading list) in asking, “If they don’t care who wins, why do they keep the score?” We don’t know. Why do chickens have lips?

Now down to IMAC. There were two unbelievable upsets on Monday as freshmen teams from 4th and basement of Richardson scored victories over wily veteran teams.

The top of the dorm beat Emanon, 13-6. The bottom tumbled PIKA’s empire hopes by the same score.

When freshmen win it’s either because they practiced or the other team was in wheelchairs. Either way, it is a pity.

But don’t take this too hard, Freshmen, for no matter how much of a turkey you are, there are at least three upperclassmen who have got you beat.

In rain-out action, Joe Banana and His Bunch (who list a mysterious blond figure resembling Bjorn Borg) never saw the men of ETC. show.

Rumor, however, surrounds the SPE game against the Borgs. We have heard that the SPE’s came up short by one touchdown (alright, who lost the playbook?) due to the overpowering talents of former hall counselor John Mitchell.

Commissioner Bowie, however, had no score card turned into IMAC Central. The affair seems to be hushed-up.

Still, the SPE house is in darkness tonight as the search continues for evidence of a match in ashes amid the vast expanse of the flickerball fields.

As predictions seem to be inevitable, we have carefully studied the rosters and are prepared to list those teams who should be outrageously mediocre this flickerball season.

“Pat’s Dirty Old Men” has shown great promise of floundering around .500 in pre-season workouts. Headed by Pat “Looker” Drake, the squad also sports stand-outs such as Chip “Turd” Stone, “the Sterling” Jeff Frank, “the frank” Sterling Martin, and the powerful Leo Valiente.

But as listless as “Pat’s Dirty Old Men” may be, the Kerwood Derbies are our unquestionable choice for the team most likely not to distinguish themselves in any way. A glance at their roster reveals several ghost players such as Sam Upchurch '74, T. Jay Pecorak '74 (you freshmen better pray that he doesn’t show up), Sam Spencer ‘40 (who had no comment to make on anything) and Laura Lortz '78 (they can’t be that big!).

Along with their combined running and passing skills, the Derbies will be highly mediocre.

All other teams will either be better or worse.

Davidson College Student Advisory Board

Joel Tew
Class of ’76

Emelia Stewart
Class of ’76

Carolann Connor
Class of ’77

Edward M. Crosland
Class of ’77

John O’Neal Craig III
Class of ’78

Please share your ideas about types of services you want with our Student Advisory Board. They help us serve you better.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY

Member FDIC.