Eight 2 The Davidsonian February 20, 1975

Practitioner Aids Community, Chinese
By ANNE PELFREY
Asst. News Editor

A small, smiling man with white hair flung open the door of the two-story brick house. Dr. James Woods, Davidson’s general practitioner for more than 30 years, broadened his wrinkled face into a wide, bright grin. “If you want to know my life story, I could probably give it to you in 10 minutes,” he quips. This modest statement proves the man’s quiet gentleness, but it conceals the warm stories Dr. Woods tells of his life in China as a medical missionary and his active love of the Davidson community.

Appreciation for this man as a physician has been so great that last spring the town set a day aside and called it “Dr. Woods Day.”

“I guess I see people from all walks of life in Davidson. It’s very interesting to see such a cross-section of people,” he said. “I love this community. It’s much more personal. If anyone gets into trouble, the whole town rises up to help,” he said. “Not long ago a tractor turned over on a man here. The town raised about $3,000 for his family in only 3 days. People helped who didn’t even know the man,” he added.

Dr. Woods has always been and is still very busy in his practice. While he was Davidson College physician for many years, he was available and called on at all hours of the day and night. “About 40 or 50 people come through my office daily. I’ve always gone on the idea that a doctor better be available when needed,” he said. At 76 years of age, Dr. Woods still keeps a hard schedule. “I like practicing and guess I won't quit until this old brain stops,” he laughed.

Dr. Woods has spent his entire life in the service of others. He and his wife are the children of missionary parents, who lived in China. Dr. and Mrs. Woods came to the states for college and returned to China as missionaries, themselves. “Yes, we are some of those hard-to-find people who were born in China. My father was a medical missionary,” he said. “After I finished high school in China, I came to Davidson College, then, I went to Richmond, Va. for medical school,” he said.

“I went to Randolph-Macon. We were married in China and I taught French in an American school there,” Mrs. Woods smiled. Mrs. Woods speaks with a cheerful authority. Her voice has a down-to-earth tone.

Dr. James Woods

“I ruined a brilliant teaching career when I married her,” Dr. Woods teased. “No you didn’t. This is exactly what I wanted,” she corrected. Mrs. Woods is a columnist for

Subotnick Sculpts Vibrations, Sees Emerging Resonances
By CARL SCHWARTZ
Staff Writer

Morton Subotnick, avant-garde composer, was featured on campus February 10-12 as part of the Artist Series. Besides his “Balance Room” set-up in the Union and his well-attended concert of Electronic Music, he gave several demonstration-lectures and interviews.

Subotnick sees music as a self-fulfillment, a means of communication and way to fulfill his ideas. “Music is a way of life,” he said. He feels that the greatest challenge is to fulfill these ideas and not compromise them. He gave the names of Arnold Schoenberg, Anton Webern, Bela Bartok and Charles Ives as major influences on his music. Schoenberg and Webern developed atonality and then the “12-tone” serial technique. In this new style they were forced to reconsider the balances of the fundamental elements of music as they reimposed order on the atonal chaos they had created. Bartok explored subtle rhythms, new timbres and spatial changes in his music. Charles Ives, the great and freaky American genius did a little bit of everything in his music, and well before anybody else did it. His music caught the attention of Mahler and later Schoenberg who was awed when he discovered what Ives had done.

Like all these composers, Subotnick has sought new relative balances of the basic elements of music to fulfill his many ideas. He compared his composition using the synthesizer to Mozart’s compositional technique. He feels that Mozart improvised on paper when he composed. Subotnick creates basic ideas on tape and “sculpts” them with the synthesizer--his “composing instrument”--which is a form of improvisation. In addition, he also composes more “conventional” music using regular instruments.but always with electronics in some form. In his lecture on avant-garde music, he outlined his conceptions of past musical periods. He sees "classicism" as reason embodied in music, where form and its manipulation create impact. With Beethoven, the classical and romantic composer all in one, the emerging romantic ideal culminating in Social Darwinism is manifested by thematic fulfillment like man towards superman. The sound comes to exist for itself and is used to overwhelm the listener by sheer physical force. The overblown style that developed collapsed because of itself, and the last vestige was swept away along with the culmination of Social Darwinism in the civilization of Nazi Germany. Subotnick feels that the avant-garde is rooted in the thinking behind the theory of relativity. Absolutes are gone; the fine balances between the prime elements of music have to be explored because the rigid canons of earlier times are gone. He also implied that a new force is moving in music now, although he did not offer speculation as to what it might be.

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 - 7, — Wed. 9 - 12, — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N. C.
131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

Attention Seniors: The absolute deadline to submit casual pictures for the yearbook is March 31. If a photographer is needed, contact Carroll Ensley (892-1819), Bruce Reichelderfer, Ben Simms, or Pete Goodman to set up an appointment. The Quips and Cranks staff cannot accept photos after March 31.

The Mecklenburg Gazette: “I write about the people of the town when they do something special like take a trip,” she said. They talked more of their life in China. “We went back to China in 1924. The Chinese were in a period of great political turmoil during these years as the nationalist government was fighting for control and the Japanese-Chinese War broke out,” Dr. Woods said. “The hospital we had opened closed in 1927 for one year due to political reasons. During that year, I worked as a doctor on an American destroyer off the Chinese coast for 2 months and later went to southwest Korea to work for a while,” he said. (Photo by Earl Lawrimore)

“I returned to China and reopened the hospital with some Chinese doctors. We had an American nurse there who ran a training school for nurses,” he added. “We returned to Davidson around 1940 about the time World War II broke out. We would have gone back in 1941, but we haven’t been back since,” he said. Dr. Woods’ hectic schedule in China has never slacked off; his life as a doctor in Davidson is very busy. Despite this, he still manages to play golf and do a great deal of reading. “He reads everything he can get his hands on. He sits in that chair,” Mrs. Woods said, pointing to a soft chair in the corner, “and just goes through the books.”

“I like to read everything I can in English history and Chinese history, and I like to play golf,” he said. Dr. Woods’ white hair reveals tints of what was once entirely red hair. “Years ago during my free time in China, I used to play tennis. But now I go for golf,” he said. As a somewhat distant onlooker to today’s Davidson College scene, Dr. Woods has some advice to pre-medical students. “You get enough of those science courses at med school. Pre-meds should take the requirements they need for medical school and then branch out into other areas such as literature and political science. I once knew a very narrow-minded doctor, but he later broadened his view by reading in other areas.”

Dr. Woods also believes it is more valuable to intern in a large city hospital. “I interned at Bellevue Hospital in New York. You get a lot more patients in a big city hospital and can learn more there,” he said.

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans
Only 6 miles north
Piedmont Insurance Agency, Inc.
137 N. MAIN ST.
DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036