October 31, 1975

The Davidsonian

Can faculty abandon lectern image?

By BILL BOND

One evening an Arab was moseying down the camel path in his neighborhood about two miles from town. It was
fifteen minutes or so after sundown, and the sky was working hard on turning off all the harsh light. Suddenly,
he heard the noise of approaching horsemen. Looking up, he saw a group of riders coming his way, all mounted
on what appeared to be fierce-spirited animals and riding his way as if with some definite purpose in mind.

Narudin, our Arab, was not foolhardy or stupid. His was a rowdy part of the country, and people caught walking
alone at night by roaming groups of riders often found themselves robbed, beaten, or even killed. The unlucky ones were
forced into the army by regiments who had not heard of the volunteer army. Narudin, therefore, looked for a place
to hide. Off to his left he saw a little cemetery, and, without another moment's hesitation, bounded over the wall
and clung to the damp ground for dear life. (He obviously perceived this as a grave matter.)

The riders, however, noticed the white-robed figure jumping over the fence, and, being a group of innocent sightseers, rode over
to see if anything was wrong. When Narudin was confronted by the friendly, if curious, group, he found himself at
a loss for words to explain his reason for hiding. Finally, he rolled over to the group and said, "It
would take too long to tell you why I did as I did. It is more complicated than it seems.
Let it suffice, therefore, to say that I am here because of you, and you are here because of me."

I would like for you to keep this story in mind as you consider the relationship between professors and students
at Davidson College. Perhaps I am too naive, but when I was trying to decide where I was going to
go to college, one of the things that impressed me most was the information that student-teacher ratios were very small,
leading to intimate classrooms and occasional chats with a professor at his house for dinner or at some agreed-upon place
for a beer. After I had arrived, I found this to be the exception and not the rule.

First Chambers had reasons for this. The main one being that professors used to have open houses on Sunday nights,
but these were stopped due to lack of student interest. This is no doubt the truth, but does contact between
professors and students have to be limited to shallow chats over punch during Walt Disney’s "Wonderful World of Color"? Was
the lack of interest only on the part of students? No, I believe that students and faculty, as a whole,
is due to the need on the part of the faculty to set themselves apart from students, and to the
students allowing this attitude on the part of most professors to color their feelings about the faculty as a whole.

This past week I was told by a faculty member that the faculty needed to be guaranteed certain rights that
students should not have. I was not told that this was because it would help the faculty to get their
work done better or to facilitate the educational process in...any way. The reasoning was that the faculty, as a higher
class of folk at this institution, needed such different sets of rules so that they could be set apart from
students. This sort of attitude carries over to classrooms, resulting in instances of professors talking down to classes and limiting
discussions, not because topics brought up are not germane, but because they might challenge a personal belief the professor has
stated over and over in lectures. Happily, not all professors are like this. Even those who are have a seemingly
large enough set of students who are allowed in their presence so that they do not see themselves as alienating
or being alienated from their pupils.

Those professors who honestly attempt to interact with students as people and not just students are one of the great
things about this place for those who take the effort to get to know them. Most students, though, are not
willing to make this effort. Either they have felt dumped on long enough that they are not willing to try
to make a friend of a professor, or they are simply apathetic about the whole matter. So it ends up
being a vicious circle in which faculty members can turn off those students who might have come to Davidson looking
for this type of contact, who in turn turn down honest efforts for communication by those faculty members who want
to be seen as men and women and not fixtures behind a lectern. Let’s face it, each is here because
the other is here. Perhaps we might be able to make it more pleasurable with a little effort.

Friday, October 31, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker, Kitta, Mackie, Menard, Schmitt Stowe Galleries
5 pm President's Dinner (Ne Ultra Society) Banquet Hall
8:15 pm President’s Opening: First Major Drama Production--"Wilson" Hodson Hall
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: "Play Misty for Me" Love
9 & 11 pm John Stanfield 900 Room

Saturday, November 1, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. Stowe Galleries
8 am Graduate Management Admission Test Banquet Hall
11 am Cross-Country Meet: Southern Conference Meet ECU-Greenville, N.C.
1:30 pm Football: Kenyon Gambier, Ohio
2 pm Soccer: Emory University Atlanta, Ga.
8:15 pm First Major Drama Production: "Wilson" Hodson Hall
9 & 11 pm John Stanfield 900 Room

Sunday, November 2, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. Stowe Galleries
7 pm Catholic Mass Lingle Chapel

Monday, November 3, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. Stowe
TBA Radu Florescu on Dracula Love

Tuesday, November 4, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. Stowe
All Day Alan Kolp--Earlham Seminary Conversation Pit
9 am Wake Forest University School of Management Meeting Room
10 am Questions & Answers with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
7 pm Worship Service DCPC
7:30 pm JYA Balcony--900 Room
8 pm Open End with Dr. Sam Spencer Morrison Room

--Vance Polley

John Stanfield performs in the 900 Room Friday and Saturday.

Wednesday, November 5, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. Stowe
4 pm Film: "Hemingway" Honors Center
6:45 pm Dinner: Robert Martin of Fund for Theological Education Banquet Hall
8 pm Fine Film: "Frankenstein" Love
8:30 & 10 pm Coffeehouse: "Easy Steam" 900 Room

Thursday, November 6, 1975
All Day Prints and Drawings by Becker and co. Stowe
10 am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
8:15 pm First Major Drama Production: "Wilson" Hodson Hall
8:30 & 10 pm Coffeehouse: "Easy Steam" 900 Room
