April 24, 1975 The Davidsonian Nine

“School for soldiers” clears army haze

By PHIL STIKES
Staff Writer

School for Soldiers: West Point and the Profession of Arms
By Robert Moore and Joseph Ellis
295 pages $9.95 ~ Oxford University Press

What do you think of when someone says “West Point”? Massive gray buildings, perhaps? The Corps of Cadets on parade? Or maybe even trained killers? The United States Military Academy at West Point has long been an institution shrouded in mystery and subject to many stereotyped images. In “School for Soldiers,” Ellis and Moore attempt to clear up the picture of West Point.

The overriding concept in military circles is that of mission. The training of future military leaders is the mission of West Point. “School for Soldiers” is a revealing discussion of the ways the USMA goes about accomplishing its mission.

Thayer System

The Thayer System, a rigid and demanding philosophy of education, Beast Barracks, an incredible orientation for the new cadet to the ways of USMA, the indoctrination of the motto “Duty, Honor, Country”—all are means by which the end is achieved. And that end is the production of an officer in the United States Army, a leader of men.

Ellis and Moore present West Point not in terms of the stereotyped pictures developed over the years, but as a complex and vague institution with a singular purpose. West Point is a world all its own. To visitors, it presents an air of orderliness through its parades, of tradition by its massive stone buildings and military memorabilia. Visions are conjured up of gray uniforms and plebes reciting ancient trivia on command to upperclassmen. Academy graduates, on the other hand, consider West Point something of a refuge for the old virtues which have faded away elsewhere. To them, West Point is an eternal, solid sanctuary treated with a respect more becoming to a religion.

Source of relief

In a day in which America finds itself plagued by a multitude of ills, many graduates look to the Academy as a source of relief. The educational system at West Point is based on a system devised by Sylvanus Thayer, superintendent from 1817 to 1833. The system is very rigid and high-pressured, heavy on the sciences, and extremely goal-oriented. For every question, there is an accepted answer, and it is for this accepted answer that the cadet works. The end result is an officer that is quick on his feet under pressure and thinks clearly and logically. The West Point officer does not stop and dwell over issues as the ROTC or OCS graduate might, but reacts quickly without really having to think. There is an accepted answer for his situation, and he knows it.

But the cadets are not mindless automatons. They think, ponder, and peruse just as much as the average civilian college student—or would like to. Life is not easy at USMA, and each day is determined before it begins. Very little time is available to the cadet for his own use. Most of the day is devoted to classwork, training, and physical activity. Day-to-day administrivia also take up a large portion of the day. If a cadet can find the time to study, he is quite fortunate.

“Duty, honor, country”

Closely linked to the educational system is the concept of “duty, honor, country.” From the first day of Beast Barracks on, these three words are the guiding principles of West Point and the Corps of Cadets. One does not question a West Pointer’s honor, his devotion to duty, or his loyalty to this country. So thoroughly inculcated into the cadet’s mind are these principles that in situations requiring great dedication to high standards of performance, the West Point officer is quite frequently the superior officer. However, Ellis and Moore point out that in situations that call for “conscientious opposition to orders,” the West Pointer may have greater trouble determining the parameters of his own moral position than the graduate of ROTC or OCS.

The authors are well-qualified to write (See SOLDIERS, page 15)

Calvinist psalters influence moderns

By CARL SCHWARTZ
Staff Writer

A fine collection of Early American Vocal Classical music has recently been released by Nonesuch (H-71276). This music is simple and unpretentious in style; it has little in common with the contemporary European Classical Style fostered in this country by the Moravians and other European-trained musicians living in America. Rather, it harkens back to Renaissance and even earlier music: much of it is through-composed (no regular formal structure) relying on sequence and imitation in the music or text declamation for order. The tonality rarely moves outside of the Dorian mode; sometimes a Major key is used. However, the music rarely modulates. It is not surprising then to find the composers heavily influenced by the Calvinist psalters used in New England withTheir stark, simple, modal music handed down from Bourgeois and Goudimel through the Presbyterians and Puritans. Here, without ado, are my best of last year lists. My selections are taken from those films which received their commercial New York and/or Los Angeles premieres during 1974. All lists are roughly arranged from best to least best unless other ordering is specified.

Best films: Francois Truffaut’s “Day for Night,” “The King of Yvetot” from “The Little Theater of Jean Renoir,” Harold Pinter’s “Butley,” Fred Burnly’s “Neither the Sea Nor the Sand,” Billy Wilder’s “The Front Page,” Salvatori Sampere’s “Maliza,” Alexandro Jodorowsky’s “The Holy Mountain,” Joseph Sargent’s “The Taking of Pelham One, Two, Three,” Martin Scorsese’s “Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore,” Blake Edwards’ “The Tamarind Seed.”

Not seen: Dusan Makaveyev’s “Man Is Not a Bird,” Rainer Werner Fassbinder’s “Fear Eats Out the Soul,” Yasujiro Ozu’s “Early Spring.”

Best director: Marco Bellochio (“In the Name of the Father”), Francois Truffaut (“Day for Night”), Martin Scorsese (“Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore”), Federico Fellini (“Amarcord”), Alain Resnais (“Stavisky”), Salvatori Sampere (“Maliza”), Blake Edwards (“The Tamarind Seed”), Francis Ford Coppola (parts of “The Godfather, Part II”).

Best actors: Jon Voight (“Conrack” and “The Odessa File”), Michael Moriarty (parts of “Report to the Commissioner”), Laurence Olivier (parts of “The Three Sisters”), Lee Marvin (“Spike’s Gang” and “The Klansman”), Rutger Hauer (“Turkish Delight”), Jack Nicholson (“The Last Detail”), Alan Bates (“Butley”), Giancarlo Giannini (“The Seduction of Mimi”), James Earl Jones (“Claudine”), Albert Finney (“Murder on the Orient Express”), Joel Grey (“Man on a Swing”).

Best actresses: Diane Cannon (“Child Under a Leaf”), Gena Rowlands (“A Woman Under the Influence”), Joan Hackett (“The Terminal Man”), Liv Ullmann (“Scenes From a Marriage”), Ellen Burstyn (“Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore”), Susan Hampshire (“Neither the Sea Nor the Sand”), Faye Dunaway (“Chinatown”), Joan Plowright (“The Three Sisters”).

Best supporting actors: Holger Lowenadler (“Lacombe, Lucien”), Vincent Gardenia (“The Front Page”), James Mason (“11 Harrowhouse”), Patrick McGee (“The Last Days of Man on Earth”), Robert De Niro and Lee Strasberg (“The Godfather, Part II”), Trevor Howard (“11 Harrowhouse”), Martin Balsam (“Murder on the Orient Express”), Anthony Hopkins (“Juggernaut”), Jon Korkes (“The Front Page”), Trevor Howard (“Craze”), Hugh Griffith (“Luther”), Bryan Marshall (“The Black Windmill”), Richard Widmark (“Murder on the Orient Express”), Spike Milligan (“The Three Musketeers”), John Gielgud (“Murder on the Orient Express”), Armando Brancia (“Amarcord”), Walter Matthau (“Earthquake”), Randy Quaid (“The Last Detail”).

Best supporting actresses: Jeanne Moreau (“The Little Theater of Jean Renoir”), Wendy Hiller (“Murder on the Orient Express”), Sylvia Syms (“The Tamarind Seed”), Bibi Andersson (“Scenes From a Marriage”), Ellen Burstyn (“Harry and Tonto”), Rachel Roberts (“Murder on the Orient Express”), Valentine Cortese (“Day for Night”), Diane Ladd (“Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore”), Jeanne Moreau (“Going Places”), Jessica Landy (“Butley”), Magali Noel (“Amarcord”). (Not seen: Bea Arthur in “Mame.”)

Best cinematographers: Alfio Contini (“The Night Porter”), Jordan Cronenweth (“The Front Page” and “Zandy’s Bride”), Victor J. Kemper (“The Gambler”), Sven Nykvist (“A Free Woman”), Jean Rabier (“Wedding in Blood”), Giuseppe Rotunno (“Amarcord”), Vittorio Storaro (“Maliza”), Geoffrey Unsworth (“Murder on the Orient Express”), Sacha Vierny (“Stavisky”), Kent L. Wakeford (“Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore”).

Best screenwriters: Francois Truffaut, Jean-Louis Richard, and Suzanne Schiffman for “Day for Night,” Ingmar Bergman for “Scenes From a Marriage.”

Best editing: “Daisy Miller,” “Stavisky,” “Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore,” “Day for Night,” “Amarcord.”

Best set design: “The Night Porter,” “Amarcord,” “The Front Page,” “Love and Anarchy,” “The Black Windmill.”

Best costume design: “Amarcord,” the men’s costumes for “The Great Gatsby,” the women’s costumes for “The Tamarind Seed,” “The Night Porter.”

By JOE MCMILLAN

This style flourished from about 1770-1820 in the hands of the famous William Billings of Boston (1746-1800) and others whose music is featured in this recording. “The Sacred Harp” Much of this music found its way into “The Sacred Harp”—the interdenominational Southern Hymnal published in 1860—most of the music there is in this style. Whatever might have happened musically, this musical was soon almost totally replaced by most churches with the sentimental romantic music and words of composers like Fanny Crosby. It is obvious that “What Wondrous Love is This” or “Amazing Grace” belong to another world when compared to Ms. Crosby’s “Blessed Assurance, Jesus is Mine,” even though these are often lumped together as “old hymns.”

While little familiar music is included in this recording, there are 24 excellent and most enjoyable selections performed here: The Western Wind Ensemble and several guest artists provide the listener with intimate part singing and an exciting musical sound. The recording quality is up to Nonesuch’s high standard. If you like sacred music, folk music, or any music, I don't think this album can fail to please you.