Che Davidsonian

“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in the image.”
--Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton, Editor
Mark Wilensky, Managing Editor

JANUARY 16, 1975

Getting To The Board

Davidson is fortunate to have a distinguished and dedicated Board of Trustees directing college policy and furthering Davidson interests within
and without the boundaries of the campus. Yet this group, ultimately responsible for ensuring that Davidson is offering a high
quality of cognitive and emotional educational experiences, is receiving little response from the students for whom this institution exists. We
appreciate the efforts of the Student Government Association in bringing students and trustees together at the trustee receptions, but we
recognize that such minimal contact is inadequate. Obviously, other methods of student-initiated contact with the trustees exist. Students may send
personal letters to members of the Board. Further, since all of the trustees receive The Davidsonian, student use of the
Letters to the Editor column may also prove to be an effective means of communication with the trustees. We urge
campus leaders to devise even more channels of communication between the student body and the Board. Without meaningful and continuing
contact with the trustees, we cannot bring constructive changes to Davidson.

Bringing Down The House

Not long ago, the lack of decent low-cost housing in Davidson was a subject of concern to this community. The
Student Government Association, the Eumenean Society, church service groups, the college administration, and town committees unanimously deplored the substandard conditions
and promised action. Mayor Sadler admitted publicly that student pressure was forcing the town to move on the problem. The
lack of that promised action is a testimony to the loss of student interest. Sadly enough, two months have passed,
and little constructive action has been taken. Sadder still, the Davidson community has seemingly pushed the problem aside. After overwhelming
SGA Senate support for a resolution deploring substandard housing conditions and the appointment of a group to seek action for
improving the property “across the tracks,” a town survey was planned to examine the needs of the community. Legions of
student volunteers were promised. Only five showed. When the time came to put up, we shut up. And the problem
remains. Whether or not students choose to ignore housing conditions, Davidson must seek new low-cost housing facilities immediately. We urge
the community to recapture its lost momentum and move immediately to improve the housing conditions which presently disgrace the town.

Earning Spending Money

The Annual Fund has had unprecedented success so far in the infancy of the funding campaign. We wish James McFarland
and the Annual Fund class chairmen continued success in their efforts to raise money for Davidson. Davidson is now faced
with tremendous costs to meet the needs of students on financial aid, provide adequate chemistry facilities, create space for the
exhibition of graphic arts, and maintain and expand the benefits and salaries of its employees. We are particularly appreciative of
the support the alumni are giving Davidson, and we urge the administration to budget our resources carefully. We urge all
members of the college community to attend the budget meeting Tuesday at 4 p.m.

Lortimer Acquires Horsesense After Campus Cage Release

In the pre-dawn hours before the sun climbs over the chimneys of Belk and even the pre-meds are dozing fitfully,
I often chat with my favorite nocturnal companion, Lortimer. He is a descendant of the original Davidson wildcat who once
lived caged on campus in medieval times when an ancient ancestor of mine graced the campus. Curled up on the
prayer rug, Lortimer’s eyes grow misty over the hours he spent coaching Bill Edward’s backhand to ultimate perfection. With touching
melancholy, he wipes a tear away saying, “Poor Bill, that one whose backhand was as good as his serve should
die so young. At least he died with his arm straight, his eye on the ball, and his Davidson T-shirt
clean!”

Lortimer is easily calmed with a cup of tea, and now that the sound of the dribbling basketball is heard
in the dorm hall and coliseum, I often query him on the team’s chances of a winning season. “You’re on
that winning kick too,” growls Lortimer. “Why, when I used to help your venerable ancestor with his Greek,” and this
next part we say together, “and it was Greek to me, moral victories were the thing, girl.” “Yeah, Lortimer, but
WBT doesn’t think so, and neither do the rich alumni.” “Perhaps,” he states sadly, “if I were still kept on
campus things might be different. Do you think I actually enjoy lurking...in the cross-country course and eking out a barren
existence with ARA Slater.”

“But I gave you a meal ticket, Lortimer.”

“And the road to perdition is paved with good intentions.”

“See, it’s nice chatting, but I hear my reserve books calling.”

“Oh not you too. Everybody seems to be working now, and why? Honestly, what you learn isn’t going to help.
What you really need is a little common sense.”

“Oh yeah? Prove it to me.”

“Let me tell you a simple tale of James Thurber’s about a professor and his family who attempted to re-roof
their country home. They were determined to do the work themselves, but they didn’t have a ladder with which to
climb up and measure the roof. Having been educated to discard the obvious as banal, they stagnated for many days
never thinking to borrow or buy a ladder. Finally, a guest arrived, Messiah-like in his wisdom, and noticed that the
two sides of the roof were not only equal in length but also formed a right angle. He called the
Pythagorean theorem into play, figured the area of the roof, ordered the shingles from Sears and Roebuck, and departed. Four
out of five will swear that the sum of two squares of the right triangle is equal to twice the
sum of the hypotenuse and order enough shingles for seven houses. Now, as Jamie points out, the moral is quite
obvious: most people can’t remember their geometry well enough to be trusted with roofing a house.

Hard Times Dictate Competitive Spirit
By NORMAN B. KOLLER
Professor Of Sociology

How “good” is Davidson? A student recently asked me if I had heard that Davidson was supposed to have the
third hardest workload of any college or university in the southeast. “Probably just another unfounded rumor,” I replied. “Well, I
can certainly believe it’s true,” he responded. “Why, my friend at the University of X (your choice) has a 3.2
and he seldom cracks a book.”

How tough we are. Our intensive academic program produces numerous national scholarship winners (our catalogue tells us so). Most of
the graduating class pursues advanced study in the finest graduate schools. Seminars, independent study, and extended studies allow young inquiring
minds to develop in ways unheard of in most undergraduate programs. But the strain is considerable. “DC struggles to cope
with pressure,” The Davidsonian reads. “Davidson is clearly an elite institution, and you need to recognize that the competition is
very severe at a school like this,” a symposium speaker tells us.

In the guise of a faculty guest column, I will offer a few thoughts on Davidson from one who is
fairly new here: How “good” is Davidson? Or is that even the right question to ask? A statement about Davidson’s
position with regard to 206 other private liberal arts colleges hides considerable variation within one institution. I find great diversity
among the students. Perhaps, after all, some Davidson men (and women) DO need an introduction. The freedom to choose what
one will or will not study (should the student be required to do any academic work that displeases him?) creates
seniors who cannot write, even at Davidson. Thus Davidson’s strong points also become her weaknesses. The last thing in the
world a person wants is answers to questions he is not asking. The resentful boredom of the classroom, I find,
is not just reserved for big mid-western state universities (the smallest class I taught before coming to Davidson had 53
students). And neither is the collegiate subculture: “I have no intention of letting my studies interfere with my college education.”

The plight of the freshman. They are thrown to the wolves. To the extent that an education here means anything,
one might suppose the student just out of high school would be at a disadvantage competing with Davidson upperclassmen. Where
a C or a D grade means that you are a C or a D person, we keep them humble.
Will they believe anything about how tough it is? Oh, but their time will come. The anguished freshman evolves into
the benevolent senior who condescends to set the curve in the “introductory” course (“...but I have two science courses this
term.”). Water seeks its own level.

How “good” is Davidson? Academically better than a lot of places which are pretty poor, certainly. How “good” is American
education? Everybody wins, and everyone must receive a prize. But Davidson love it or leave it? Not in this case,
I choose to be here. If your car isn’t running well, get it fixed. These are hard...
