May 2, 1975 The Davidsonian

Changing food service hopes | ‘optimistic return’ develops
By MARK GERGEN
Copy Editor

Changes in the food service next year include an increase in the board rate, the closing of Rusk House, and no meal ticket purchases past 7 P.M. in the new Union.

“It’s a very good possibility that freshmen can buy a reduced meal ticket plan,” said ARA Slater food director Ron Scott. He added that there was no chance of a money return system. Problems with the food service include the lack of centralization, inadequate equipment and space, and an inability to show a fair profit.

“With a centralized food service I can lower board rates, offer better services, and more quality service,” stressed Scott. “The board rate this year was $710; another college of the same size does it for $480 with a centralized food service.”

Bo Baskin, who has been investigating the problem for the SGA Senate, recognizes the primary problem as being the lack of a centralized food service. “What we need now is to think in terms of a long-range solution. The eating houses will not be large enough if the college continues with its planned expansion,” said Baskin before the Senate.

Scott added that if the college goes to an enrollment of 1,500, there will have to be a centralized service. “The luxury of three separate houses plus the eating clubs will become financially impossible.” Scott also pointed out that this year the Davidson branch of ARA realized less than a one percent profit. “We are not realizing the fair return that we thought that we might get.”

“Our board plan next year reflects a more optimistic return,” added Scott. “This year we did not even make enough to meet our administrative expenses.” Scott added, “We feel that we can operate at less than the college can afford to and still return a profit.”

In response to a question on the feasibility of a non-mandatory freshman dining program, Scott said it was not possible for two reasons: the necessity of a mandatory system for financial reasons and the parents' point of view. Another major difficulty is the lack of space for storage, particularly refrigeration. The equipment is also in poor condition. Scott feels that both of these problems could be lessened by a centralized eating service.

In a recent survey of 130 men and 72 women, Bo Baskin discovered that if the average amount lost by the resale or non-use of tickets is extended over the entire freshman class, over $17,000 has been lost. One possible solution would be to extend two possible meal ticket plans to freshmen next year. This summer, all of next year’s freshman class would be mailed a letter informing them of their options. They then would select one of the two meal plans for the fall term. After the fall term, they would be allowed to choose between the two plans again.

Scott said that other problems include the failure of the college to warn him when people are coming on campus. He stated, “This increases wastage in that we have to cook extra food in case there are unexpected people on campus.” Scott also added, “We have a problem with students stealing food; of course it affects us. As long as you have self-service you will have this problem.” As a control of this problem, there will be no self-service in the Union next year. The new Union will include a snack bar, eggs, pizza, and deli-type sandwiches. The operation of the beer will be decided by the Union. Richards and Bailey will both go to cafeteria-style operations. One of them will feature an enlarged salad bar.

Negligence creates safety hazard — Scott Buell Ron Scott

Fire escape routes remain out of sight
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
News Editor

Printed maps for a safe evacuation from the dormitories in case of fire are currently not available to students. Plans for organized escape from the dorms in case of fire are drawn up and sitting in the office of Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze. These plans were printed and placed in the dorms five years ago, according to Director of Housing Scotty Nicolls.

“We have a fire plan that somebody in the Physical Plant office worked out. It was made before the fire alarms were installed. A couple of students have pointed out to me in recent years that these plans are no longer up,” said Nicolls. Since the printing and posting of the first fire escape plans, “aboutFive years ago, according to Nicolls, the Physical Plant is supposed to have a fire plan on every bulletin board in every room. "I used to remind them every summer that this needed to be done. But I don’t believe it has," said Nicolls. Meetze believes that his office has not been notified that the plans were ever down from the first time they were posted. "I posted these in every dorm. Mrs. Nicolls hasn’t spoken to me lately. I guess if students have torn them off the walls, the plans are down now," said Meetze. Meetze expressed concern that the escape plans were down and plans to re-distribute them as soon as copies can be made.

A primary cause of fire in the dorms, and perhaps the easiest cause to control, is the misuse of electric appliances. Some appliances can burst into flames if left on. These appliances, notably open-coil hot plates, are forbidden in the dorms. An overuse of electricity can cause an overload of the circuit in a room. An overloaded circuit can cause an electrical fire. Nicolls has asked the Physical Plant to make information on the exact wattage in each room available to the inhabitants of that room. It was thought that this information might keep the student from overloading the circuit in his room accidentally. "Each room is supposed to have posted in it the amount of wattage available to that room so that students can tell when they are reaching the limit. Mr. Meetze decided to put the information in each room. I don’t think it is anywhere at all," said Nicolls.

Meetze explains that Nicolls wrote a memo to all students telling the wattage available in each of the dorms and including a list of wattages for some of the most widely used electrical appliances in 1969. These memos were never distributed, but they can be duplicated now and distributed, according to Meetze. "I think the wattage information was in the handbook a few years ago. Mrs. Nicolls has a February 14, 1969 memo to all students on it. I don’t know why it was never distributed. I didn’t know we were supposed to distribute them," he said. "The list of wattages is with Mrs. Nicolls, she has them. She could run some copies herself and distribute them," continued Meetze. "Simply, Watts, Cannon, and Sentelle have 250 watts available to each room. Duke has 700. Belk, Richardson, and Little have 800 watts. I guess these should be posted for the inspection situation," he concluded.

Nicolls expressed some concern that Duke Dormitory, because it only has one exit, is in violation of regulations. "There are supposed to be two ways out of a building. The only building in violation is Duke. It is our biggest fire hazard," she asserted. "Duke isn’t very tall, maybe students could jump if there was a fire," she added. According to Meetze, federal officials have checked Duke and have never said anything. He suggested that building codes change and that Duke is in compliance with the code under which it was built. "When the building was designed, it was designed so that in case of fire, you could go up to the third level, go across and then down. This gives it two exits. As long as you have two exits, that is all the state asks for."

---

Blood goals realized

The Red Cross Blood Drive on April 24 collected 240 pints of blood. "The drive was a resounding success," said sponsor Captain William L. DeVaughan. "This result guarantees blood insurance for all Davidson faculty, staff, students, and their families, even those who did not give blood." The results of the April 24th donations brought the year’s total to 490 pints, well above the Davidson College quota of 430. 241 donors participated in the September drive, while nine gave at the Blood Center in Charlotte during the year.

—Scott Buell

---

SGA Spring Elections

On May 13, the following positions will be filled: Student Conduct Council: two students from the rising sophomore, junior, or senior classes. Advisory Council on Campus Life: two students from the rising sophomore, junior, or senior classes. Filing deadline is Tuesday, May 6, at 5 p.m. in the Dean of Students’ office. A description of the positions is available there. Elections will be held on May 13, from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. in Chambers Lobby and the Post Office. The SGA is the entire student body. Neither position may be filled by SGA Senators. The positions of Student Solicitor, Review Board, and Defense Advisor will not be filled in this spring's election, contrary to previous publicity. The present office holders will serve through spring 1976.