The Davidsonian January 23, 1975

(Photo by Mike Sneed)

Kenneth Boulding

Boulding Projects Confidence In American Economic Future

By NED PARKER
Staff Writer

Kenneth Boulding, economist and Renaissance man, offered hope, encouragement, and a sense of direction to the Davidson community last Thursday
and Friday. During his visit to the campus as a Reynolds lecturer, Boulding talked of the economy, social dynamics, world
problems, history, spiritual needs, and of himself.

“The present state of the American economy needs to be viewed in light of the Great Depression of the thirties.
I first came to this country in 1932 when unemployment was running at 25 percent. Today it is around 6
percent. That the alarm bells are ringing is a sign of the strength of our society, that we are determined
to take steps to avoid a major depression. Yes, we are going through a bumpy period, but it is only
minor compared to what we have been through. It is amazing that we ever survived the thirties’ depression.”

Before looking into his crystal ball he noted, “I am always surprised by the future but never overwhelmed by it.
I think understanding the future is almost as hopeless as predicting the past.”

Boulding projected that the American economy will grow at a much slower pace in the next 30 years than it
did during the past 30 years. (Real GNP has doubled in the past 30 years.) He also stated that he
would not be surprised if the general price level 30 years hence were 8 times its current level.

Town Council Inaction Fueled By Lack Of Available Monies

News Analysis By MARK WILENSKY Managing Editor

Meeting with state experts has done little to move the Davidson Town Council closer to their expressed goal of providing
some kind of low rent housing for the poor. The council met with officials of the Farmers’ Home Administration and
a state agency designed to assist small rural communities with problems such as housing.

At an October meeting with two college students, Davidson Mayor Tom Sadler insisted that “as people of good will we
can work together to solve the problems of our community. We have the means to do so, and I believe
we also have the will.” Monday evening the Mayor suggested to the council, “maybe we will not be able to
solve the problem in Davidson-- and we should be willing to admit this.”

Sadler’s change of mind came after the Farmers’ Home Administration informed the Town Council that community surveys showed the average
income of the poverty areas too low to enable the FHA to provide large scale monetary assistance. In addition, a
state expert in the area of small community problems painted a bleak picture of the availability of government money.

It was initially hoped that the FHA would provide significant funding. However, a survey headed up by Waymer and SGA
Senator John Guthrie produced results showing Davidson poor could not afford FHA help. At the same time, that survey and
one conducted by Town Inspector Potts showed a significant need. Twenty-eight families felt their homes were inadequate. Eight families of
the 55 surveyed had more than two people per bedroom. One house had six per bedroom. Potts’ inspection, based on
the town’s non-housing code, reported 17 houses “derelict” (unfit to live in). Another 26 units were termed “hastening to ruin.”
Four of the “derelict” homes are inhabited.

The much hoped for help from the Community Development Act was not forthcoming. A CDA expert explained that the Act
provides for improvement, but not new development. Although to many observers the idea of improvement seems a significant step forward,
the town of Davidson has neither applied for funds nor pledged to do so. Other communities in the area have
made preliminary applications. The application procedure is simple and inexpensive and the deadline is March 1, 1975. While no sentiment
favoring application was forthcoming at the Monday council meeting, contrary sentiment was expressed by Councilman Burl Narramore. “Since we primarily
need public housing and because the Community Development Act won’t provide that, we shouldn’t apply for public housing.”

A request from a private developer to build private housing was also dismissed as too expensive to solve the problem.
It is at this point that the situation now rests. Rush Otey continues to seek relocation for those in the
worst situations. Charles Ratliff’s town committee continues to suggest immediate positive action in acquiring whatever FHA and CDA money is
available. Guthrie claims to have lost faith that they truly desire low rent housing to the extent that necessary measures
be taken. No council member has stepped forward to lead, as Nancy MacCormac did in the setting up of the
community center. As Otey points out, “much is being done.” As he also recognized, leadership from the political arena is
sorely lacking. Low rent housing cannot be a reality without this leadership. The money is available now. Alternate plans to
build public housing can be developed. As the state community affairs official explained at the town council meeting, “Public housing
in North Carolina has worked. I realize that you have an obvious need here. My concern is in whether you
have a plan to meet that need.”Present level. We may live to see the kilo dollar, even the mega dollar.
“The best way to combat inflation is to love it,” he said. Boulding traced present economic difficulties to energy shortages,
excessive military spending, particularly in Vietnam, a non-progressive tax structure, and the plain fact that the science of economics is
not sufficiently advanced to help us correct the economic problems of today. Boulding suggested that a program to control the
prices of 25 basic wholesale commodities might have some potential for slowing inflation. This could be accomplished by the government’s
stockpiling of such commodities when they are in abundance, and selling them when their natural supply gets tight. This would
permit some slowing down of the general price rise while at the same time permitting prices to do what they
are supposed to do, i.e., change, so as to reflect conditions of demand and supply. Boulding also cautioned against the
extinction of the American farmer, the “exalted peasant of Iowa.” Only four percent of the working force is employed directly
in agriculture, compared to 40 percent at the turn of the century. “Much of our economic prosperity, particularly the doubling
of real per capita income during the last 30 years, can be traced to innovations in American agriculture,” said Boulding.
Such innovations freed laborers to go out and produce the goodies: toys, candy, yoyos, and the automobile. On the forces
of change in society, Boulding said, “The most fundamental process in history is not the dialectical, i.e., where you have
us fighting them, but rather the evolutionary, biological growth process, which is seen in the interaction of populations of different
species, such as the interacting of animals and plants in a pond. The mammoth problems confronting the world today—overpopulation, hunger,
pollution, threat of nuclear war, and others—can be solved only through cooperation.” Boulding anticipated that a series of catastrophes will
shake the world in the next 50 years, but would not destroy our civilization, which he praised for its inherent
stability and vitality. “We may be at the end of a golden age in history. What we may need to
do now is figure ways to learn what we can from the catastrophes that will probably be occurring in the
world, so that we can go forward more strongly afterwards.” A recurring theme throughout his visit was that the social
sciences do not know enough about man and human behavior to predict the future with much certainty. “The continuing challenge
is to reduce the uncertainty through science, and to overcome uncertainty and live with it through faith.”

Otey Praises Active Student Role In Housing Crisis Action

(Ed. Note: The following is the text of a statement released to The Davidsonian by the Rev. Rush W. Otey
III.)

As a result of newspaper coverage, numerous meetings and informal discussions, a Davidsonian Staff Production Manager: BILL ELLETT Assistant Production
Manager: WILLIAM KENNON News Editor: MATTHEW COVINGTON Assistant News Editor: ANNE PEER Features Editor: LARRY MIMMS Assistant Features Editors: STEVE
JOHNSON, VAN WILLIAMSON Photography Editor: LEON VENABLE Associate Editors: DON BENSON, ANNE FICKLEN, CHUCK HARMON, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP, ERIC
WALKER Contributing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, LILLIAN GRACE, JOE MCMILLAN, VINCE RABIL, GORDON WIDENHOUSE Business Manager: JEFF
SICH Advertising Manager: DAVID TRADER Circulation Managers: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK Staff Artists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL, PATTI SMISSON, BETH
WIER Copy Editors: CAMILLE CATHEY, SABRA FAIRES

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription $6.00.

...land availability survey, and a door-to-door survey, it seems that the housing situation will be approached from several sides: Temporary
relocation of persons now in housing that has been condemned (with the consent of the persons, of course), Construction of
some rental units for persons able to qualify for Farmer’s Home Administration funds (minimum rent would be in excess of
$110 monthly), Construction on available land of additional single-family dwellings for those persons able to qualify for low-interest loans through
the Farmer’s Home Administration. The greatest need in Davidson is for rental housing at substantially lower monthly fees than the
Farmer’s Home program allows—thus, considerable efforts still must be made toward public housing, to be funded either locally or through
federal programs which stand a good chance of being reinstated under the new Congress. Additionally, there are funds available from
the Community Development Act which, if allotted to Davidson, could go a long way in improving building sites, in establishing
parks and other community facilities, and in generally bettering the environmental aspects of the town. These funds must be requested
by the Town Board before February 28, and presently there is no rough draft for an application, much less a
completed one. It has become evident since the publication of the Wilensky-Stahmann article in The Davidsonian that the great inequities
in housing were not being addressed in any ongoing manner by either town, college, or church groups. The community owes
a great deal to those students who have written, attended meetings, walked from house to house, and in so doing,
have kept audible the cry for justice.
