the davidsonian

December 12, 1975

4

Twenty-nine run

Candidates swarm Hearing Committee

Top left to right: Yearwood, Keener, Whitaker, Cooper, McAvoy. Bottom left to right: Chadwick, Sellers.

Top left to right: Metzel, Dillon, Jones, Jennings. Bottom left to right: Harvey, Weir, Campbell.

By BRAD SWALWELL
Senior News Editor

The race for Hearing Committee positions attracted more candidates than any other race in the Dec. 16 elections, according to Ann Garrou, elections council chairwoman.

Garrou said that nine juniors, nine sophomores, and 11 freshmen filed for the Hearing Committee positions. There are 18 members of the Hearing Committee. Each class will elect three people to the committee, and all elected serve until December of their senior year.

The function of the Hearing Committee is “to hear and determine originally all charges of violations presented to it by the student solicitor on referral from the Dean,” according to the Code of Disciplinary Procedure (1971).

The Code of Disciplinary Procedure sets forth the course to be followed when a student is charged with violating the Code of Responsibility.

If the Dean of Students files formal charges against a student, the Dean holds an administrative hearing with the student. At this hearing, the student is given two options. The student may either admit the violation and submit to administratively-imposed sanctions, or the student may decline to admit the violation and be tried by the Hearing Committee.

Running for the Hearing Committee from the Class of 1977 are: Gene Broadhead, Ken Chadwick, Tom Cooper, Steve Keener, Sue McAvoy, Kevin McConnell, Tim Sellers, Bob Whitaker, and David Yearwood.

Running from the Class of 1978 are: Stewart Boswell, Joe Craig, Meg Campbell, Debbie Dillon, Ann Gray Harvey, Hunter Jennings, John Jones, Jeff Metzel, and Sam Weir.

Running for the Committee from the Class of 1979 are: Paul Bradley, Bill Barnett, Alex Bass, Russell Folger, Doug Horn, Bob McQuade, Maria Patterson, Steve Porter, Steve Sellers, Warren Soule, and Jamie Watt.

Students running for Hearing Committee positions submitted to The Davidsonian some written responses to questions. The following are excerpted from these responses.

Class of ’77

Gene Broadhead--“I am seeking office...to serve the Davidson College community. And I have always been curious about the inner workings of the disciplinary procedures at this college.”

Ken Chadwick--“I am seeking the office (because of) the high regard which I have for the Honor System... I feel that it is up to concerned students to take an active part in enforcing the...system.”

Tom Cooper--“I am running primarily because it seemed to be time to get involved and escape my role as an apathetic bystander...I decided to run for Hearing Committee because it is the office for which I feel most qualified.”

Steve Keener--“Persons elected to the Hearing Committee wield great responsibility...in the future of some students accused of violations...I feel that my experiences qualify me...to serve well in this position.”

Sue McAvoy--“I would like to take a more active part in ensuring our honor system as the way of life here at Davidson...I hope to promote the continuation of students’ responsibility and freedom.”

Kevin McConnell--No comments submitted.

Tim Sellers--“A responsible Hearing Committee must be maintained in order to secure the system and the rights of the students who live under it.”

Bob Whitaker--“I am a candidate for the Hearing Committee because I feel that I am qualified for the post and I can do a good job. I consider one of my strengths to be the ability to approach situations objectively.”

David Yearwood--“A positive goal to accomplish in this office would be the promulgation of a greater familiarity with the honor system and in general the Code of Responsibility. Observance (of the Honor System) would take place in the true spirit of a responsible use of freedom...”

Class of ’78

Stewart Boswell--“I am seeking office because I feel that I represent a certain type of Davidson student, and I think that the Hearing Committee should consist of as many types of individuals as possible.”

Joe Craig--“I’ve always had an interest in legal proceedings and I’d like the opportunity to demonstrate both to myself and my fellows that I have the capability to render fair and just decisions.”

Meg Campbell--“I would like to be a member of the Hearing Committee because it is a direct way that students can work with each other to ensure a social and academic atmosphere which one can respect and in which one can feel comfortable.”

Debbie Dillon--“To serve on the Hearing Committee would be to help preserve the honor system, thus preserving part of what Davidson is all about...preservation of the Honor System is vital to the student life of the college.”

Anne Gray Harvey--“The Honor System seems to be one of Davidson’s assets that really means a lot to me, and I would like to do my part in promoting and furthering it as part of life here at Davidson.”

Hunter Jennings--“I seek office simply to participate in the maintenance of the spirit of the Code of Responsibility as enforced in the Hearing Committee.”

John Jones--“I am seeking a position on the Hearing Committee because I

(See HEARING, page 5)