October 17, 1975

The Davidsonian

Cinema creates expanding space

By NAT HARRISON
Staff Writer

In the humble beginnings, movies obeyed a continuity of space and time. The films of Lumiere and Melies incorporated short sequences shot from the same angle and without any camera movement. Film time corresponded to real time. This was not because of any particular message to be expressed but was imposed by the technology and the very novelty of the medium.

Gradually, cinema grew up—technically and artistically. Griffith was one of its greatest pioneers, and he was the first to break down the film into sequences and greatly advance narrative technique. He is credited with the first close-up which appears in "Birth of a Nation," and strikes a wave of empathy for the heroine (it was great!). He fractures space and thus produces fiction. Mauraux calls this destruction of fixed space "the birth of cinema as a means of expression" and he means that this fragmentation of spatial unity leads to a dramatization.

Hand in hand with this development is the birth of cinematic time. It doesn’t correspond with our everyday experience of duration, but jumps about—in a succession of instants. The duration is articulated—it can be compressed as in films expressing long periods of time, or expanded as in the Odessa steps sequence in Eisenstein’s "Potemkin." This is a cinema that relies on a highly developed narrative technique, a cinematic vocabulary that took years to build, and audience assimilation of sophisticated conventions.

However, because we have grown up with them, these processes tend to pass unnoticed, especially in American movies since Hollywood has concentrated on and perfected formal techniques that are practically invisible unless one consciously looks for them. Movies of this type usually tell a story, rely on a strong dramatic tempo and have a series of climaxes. The audience is kept at a highly tense emotional level throughout. This is the cinema of Eisenstein, Ford, Welles, and Hitchcock, to name but a few. These men were artists who used those forms to create masterpieces. They have also been much copied. In fact, the greater number of the films made today utilize techniques appropriated from the masters but with far different results; instead of valid expressive means, they are reduced to crass tricks of audience manipulation. For the most part, they have become reduced to formulas of commercial success and endless clichés which only increase the environmental garbage that surrounds our lives.

However, in the last two decades, some filmmakers have moved in new directions: the themes are new, plots are sacrificed to metaphysics, and actual technique or form becomes the ultimate meaning. There is a tendency towards continuity, not imposed as before, but deliberately chosen for its effects and expressive possibilities. We have inklings of it as far back as 1948, in DeSica’s "The Bicycle Thief," a neo-realist Italian film characterized by its use of non-professional actors and on-location shooting.

Friday, October 17
Last Day Painting and Related Works—By Gordon Mahy
3 p.m. Soccer: The Citadel
8 & 10:30 p.m. Pop Film: "SPYS" Love Auditorium
9 & 11 p.m. "Colours" 900 Room
12-3:30 a.m. Disco Dance 900 Room

Saturday, October 18
8 a.m. Graduate Record Exams TBA
11 a.m. Cross-Country Meet Davidson: Wake Forest & VMI
2 p.m. Football: The Citadel Davidson
8 p.m. Concert: John Hartford and The Nitty Gritty Dirt Band Love Auditorium
11 & 12:30 "Colours" 900 Room

Sunday, October 19
2-5 p.m. An Easy Listening Band
7 p.m. Catholic Mass Lingle Chapel

Monday, October 20
7 p.m. Young Democrats Meeting Conference Room B
9 p.m. N.C. PIRG Morrison Room B

Tuesday, October 21
4 p.m. Soccer: Appalachian State Davidson
7 p.m. Worship Service DCPC
7:30 p.m. Study Session: Dr. Elizabeth Achtemeier Union Theological Seminary, Virginia

Wednesday, October 22
8:30 a.m. Representative from Vanderbilt University School of Law Union Patio Meeting Room
4 p.m. Film: "Le Corbusier" Honors Center
8:30 & 10:30 p.m. "Arthur Hurley and Gotlieb" 900 Room

Thursday, October 23
10 a.m. Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
4 p.m. Symposium on the History of Parapsychology Banquet Hall
Speakers: Prof. Michael McVaugh, UNC-Chapel Hill
Prof. Seymour Mauskauf, Duke
8:30 & 10:30 p.m. "Arthur Hurley and Gotlieb" 900 Roomby longer shots and slower rhythms. The move is definite in Antonioni’s revolutionary masterpiece "L’Avventura," which came out in 1959. The narrative displays a continuity that tries to avoid formal structuring elements. The shots are longer and more fixed. Time becomes the essential structural element, not the fragmented time of earlier classics, but one of a different nature—closer to duration as we actually experience it. We might call it dead time ("temps mort")—meaning unarticulated duration—to contrast it with the lively dramatic tempo of the "suspense" films. One actually feels the slow passing of time. Essentially, this is what the filmmakers are striving for: as little analytical structure as possible. In the words of Henri Agel: "It is neither the fragmentation of images nor discontinuity; it’s the search for unity."

This search expresses itself in many ways. In Resnais and Robbe-Grillet’s "Last Year at Marienbad," we have the interplay of mental images and reality; various pasts, presents, and futures interrelate on the screen. Both characters and audience seek a way out of the maze—the film can be seen as a struggle to resolve this discontinuity. The final liberation is, at a metaphysical level, the attainment of unity. Spatial unity is sought by Hungarian director Jancsó in his beautiful film "Psaume Rouge" (Red Psalm). Here, with no more than 26 cuts (usually a film will have hundreds, perhaps several thousand) and a fantastic choreography of camera and actors, Jancsó creates a spectacle of great beauty and, I believe, is more convincing in his political aims than Eisenstein’s "Potemkin." (The subject matter treats a peasant uprising of Communistic tendencies in 18th or 19th century Hungary.) But the importance of this film is that the director has created a plastic space that expands and evolves with the camera movements, which themselves become the theme as "suspense" dissolves into continuity and the "story" loses out to a kind of meditation. It is interesting to note that this film was labeled reactionary by some Marxist critics.

All of these films have fairly conventional subject matter, and it’s only in relation to their formal elements that we perceive their importance. Many others could be discussed, but there is another trend that is parallel and less visible and which deals with both a formal technical revolution and a thematic one. The most well-known, if still quite conventional, of these is Stanley Kubrick’s "2001: A Space Odyssey." Although he uses some standard tricks for audience manipulation, we also find two of the most pronounced features of this yet uncommercialized trend: a preference for cosmic themes—and in "2001" the themes are truly grand: the evolution of man and cosmological intercourse—a preoccupation with purely visual effects which we experience anytime the images of the film treat "outer" space. The most revolutionary sequence is the "spaceship corridor" where the astronaut penetrates the gateway to the stars. This sequence was filmed with the use of a complex machine built strictly for this purpose. It communicates a purely sensorial experience.

"2001" is an exception: this branch of cinema is largely uncommercialized. You won’t find them in Hollywood—they are artisans and students working on their own, usually with outside jobs. The artist’s tools are computers, intricate machines, subtle techniques, and personal vision. They might spend years perfecting a film that might ultimately be ten minutes long. They are half mystic, half-scientist, discovering and creating and existing. Their films are non-commercial, very personal, and paradoxically are the ultimate in cinematic form even as they merge into related media such as video and graphics. Many have no objective images but are composed of mobile visual phenomena that flow across the screen to the rhythm of intense personal vibrations. As stars collide with microbes, we are directed through ourselves into the universe.

Thus, many contemporary filmmakers are shunning storytelling techniques for a cinematographic contemplation. They are not interested in a strict realism or a misconstrued expressionism but rather strive for a total view of the universe. They want to touch our consciousness and call us to wake up.