the davidsonian

December 5, 1975

Halfback Larry Hardaway looks for daylight while Nicky Guy clears a hole in the Guilford line.
-Pete Goodman

Gridders end dismal (1-8) season

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Staff Writer

Davidson finished its 1975 football season with losses to Lafayette and Appalachian State to conclude a 1-8 campaign.

Coming off an impressive performance against powerful Lehigh, the Wildcats appeared flat in their 31-3 loss to Lafayette.

Davidson scored first on a 40-yard field goal by Joe Duncan early in the first quarter, but a 69-yard punt return by John Orrico for the Leopards set up Lafayette’s go-ahead touchdown. The Wildcats never recaptured the lead.

For Farrell, the game was a disappointment after his team’s effort the week before.

“I was very disappointed in the Lafayette game because I felt we had an opportunity to win the game and then didn’t play very well at all. If we had played as we did against Lehigh, we would have won.

“We got ahead early and had a chance for some more points to nail the lid on the coffin but we didn’t do that,” Farrell noted.

Against Appalachian State, Davidson was again soundly defeated, this time by the score of 52-7. Once again, a long punt return set up the first score for Appalachian when Ford returned a Joe Duncan kick 59 yards to the Davidson 36-yard line. The Mountaineers scored three plays later.

Appalachian continued to score as they capitalized on frequent Davidson turnovers and quickly built a commanding 24-0 lead.

Davidson’s only touchdown came late in the second quarter when Chris Crosby blocked a punt which the Wildcats recovered on the Mountaineers’ nine-yard line.

Sid Osborne then hit Terrell Rhye with a touchdown pass and Duncan added the extra point.

“We failed to cope with the disappointment of the Lafayette game and another reason for our poor showing in the Appalachian game was just the physical mismatch,” said Farrell.

“We hung in there for a while but we made a few mistakes that we couldn’t afford because they are a good football team.”

Farrell was disappointed in his team’s 1-8 record but feels that next year’s team has greater potential than the Davidson teams of the past few years.

“For the first time in my tenure, I can see a nucleus for spring practice that will be good enough to make some solid improvements. Next year is the year it should be evident that there is marked improvement in Davidson football.”

Also encouraging for the Wildcats is the fact that they will lose only seven seniors to graduation and have only one player drop from the team.

Farrell also believes that team morale has remained high despite only winning one game this year.

“We finished with a group of people who expressed the fact that they were disappointed but all of whom have a great optimism for the future.”

“I’m sorry that we couldn’t have given Davidson a better football team in my two years so far but I am encouraged that all the signs for the future are positive and that we are accomplishing what we set out to accomplish,” Farrell explained.

John Morrissey dances past two Guilford defenders on the way to a first down. (Above)
-Pete Goodman

A Hampden-Sydney running back is caught in a swarm of Wildcat defensemen at the line of scrimmage. (Left)