October 31, 1975

the davidsonian

Learning committee seeks grade grievance process

SGA Senate report

By STEPHEN BELL
Staff Writer

The SGA Senate’s Committee on Learning has ironed out the procedure whereby a student may complain about a grade he
has received.

Last week, committee chairman Roger Brown met with Dean of Students Will H. Terry and acting Vice President Frontis Johnston
in order to have a complaint process specified. Until Brown’s lobbying, no procedure had been established, and each case of
complaint had been essentially left to Terry’s discretion.

The procedure for a student to complain about a grade now begins with a meeting with the professor involved. If
the student is unable to resolve the problem with the professor individually, he may ask for a conference with the
professor and the dean of students.

If arbitration with the dean still does not yield a solution, the student may try to generate some pressure on
the professor to persuade him to change the grade by going to the department chairman, then the academic vice-president, and
ultimately, the president of the college.

However, no matter how much support a student may receive at these levels, no one except the professor himself, not
even the president, can have an unfair grade changed.

Brown cautioned that, although this procedure will be published in future editions of the Wildcat Handbook, its effectiveness depends on
those involved—especially the dean—choosing to abide by it. It is still not a part of the trustee by-laws or faculty
regulations.

According to Brown, “Both (Terry and I) felt this would be the best procedure. But it would be nice to
have it established in one of the faculty’s by-laws or regulations.”

Brown received the support of the Senate for the procedure at the Senate meeting Tuesday night. Also Tuesday night, the
Senate passed final approval on an amendment to its by-laws permitting suspension of the filing deadlines for SGA elections in
order to lengthen the campaigning period.

NEW PROGRAMMABLE CALCULATOR FROM Texas Instruments
PROGRAM STEPS WITH OPTIONAL PRINTER AT THE COST OF A HP-65

NOW TAKING ADVANCE ORDERS

OSR-50A 84.95
SR-16-11 43.95

SHIPPED FREE

N.C. CUSTOMERS ADD 3% SALES TAX; WAKE COUNTY CUSTOMERS ADD 4% SALES TAX
SHIPPED UPON RECEIPT OF YOUR CHECK OR C.O.D. ADD 85¢ C.O.D. FEE

Surveyors Supply Company
P.O. BOX 999 104 W. CHATHAM STREET
APEX, NORTH CAROLINA 27502
919-362-7000

In the meeting of the previous week, the Senate passed a resolution calling for a student convicted of a crime
to have the option of referring his case either to the dean of students or to the student hearing committee
for the decision on what disciplinary action the school should take.

As it stands now, it is the dean who has the option of deciding the case himself or of referring
it to the Student Hearing Committee.

(continued from page 1)

student health facilities and equipment.”

“A three to five year plan is needed,” said Terry, “so that we can incorporate the costs of these improvements
gradually into the budget.

“We have already compiled an unofficial list of the improvements we would like to see in equipment and services. The
first thing to do is to get rid of those World War II beds upstairs in the infirmary.”

Some of the equipment needs on the list include a stretcher, new microscope, phones for students, a phone not connected
to the college’s switchboard, storm windows, an elevator or dumb waiter, and a drainage system to keep the basement from
flooding.

In the way of services, the list suggests the hiring of a janitor, better support from doctors on call at
night, and a better system for students to get to the infirmary and check in at the infirmary at night.

Another part of the resolution will have the college checking out the feasibility of hiring more nurses for the infirmary.
As it now stands there are three full-time and one part-time nurse working there up to 60 hours per week
apiece.

“If the physician the town and college found had his offices in the infirmary, he would probably hire some of
his own staff,” noted Terry. “That fact along with the hiring of a physician’s associate may not actually necessitate the
hiring of additional nursing staff.”

Finally, the plan, as the trustees approved it, calls for the raising of the student health fee by up to
$30, if necessary, “to secure the financial resources” to implement the improvements recommended. Students currently pay about $66 apiece, a
rate McFarland has called “the lowest I’ve ever seen.” The rate increase, as yet undecided, will take effect July 1,
1976.

It out-Tommys “TOMMY.”

Radie Shack
Authorized Dealer
Service and Sales

173 W. Main Street
663-4513
MOORESVILLE

900 ROOM

“FLASH” ON TAP
NOVEMBER 5 — NOVEMBER 8

“EASY STEAM” EASY LISTENING JAZZ

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

Heavy Thinking: Tenley Shewmake and Brad Swalwell ponder the issues before the Senate.

... Infirmary to receive facelift

-Irv Wilson
