January 30, 1975
The Davidsonian
Seven

Thornton Purges Communist Threat
By THOM NICOLL
Associate Editor

E.P. Thornton has not stopped his tireless campaign against One-Worlders, the United Nations, and the World-Communist conspiracy. Some people have
missed his efforts to balance the political viewpoints to which they are usually exposed. I was wondering if Mr. Thornton,
of Murrell’s Inlet, S.C., had retired from his ideological activities and called him Tuesday to check on his current status.
He reassured me that his efforts on behalf of free enterprise and the U.S. Constitution have not abated. On the
contrary, the reason that he has not been too concerned with Davidson lately is that he has gone national: his
newspaper column is published in places as far away as Salt Lake City, Utah.

However, during 1970-72, Mr. Thornton was a prolific contributor to the letters column of The Davidsonian. He also bought a
full-page ad in April of 1971, after plans for him to speak here had fallen through. The topics of Mr.
Thornton’s contributions varied, but the main thrust was consistent: college students, the leaders of the future, and especially Davidson students
were being misled and brainwashed by liberals who associated with the Communist party, the Renee Davis, Abbie Hoffman set, and
others who were making it their life work to attack the U.S. Constitution and the free enterprise system. The text
of the full-page ad also implied that the publicity for Mr. Thornton’s upcoming speech at Davidson had been deliberately undermined
because of his conservative views. This practice, he told me Tuesday, is widespread among liberals in colleges and universities, and
he said he knew of another specific case at Davidson where a conservative speaker was the victim of such audience
manipulation.

Mr. Thornton first began writing to The Davidsonian to respond to letters in the Charlotte Observer by Professor E.F. Patterson.
In the April 16, 1971 statement, he grouped Professor Patterson with Norman Cousins and the Chicago 7 as his chosen
ideological adversaries. “I know for a fact that you have tenured professors at Davidson who do not believe in the
U.S. Constitution,” he said. “These professors,” he claimed, “take kids to Washington to help try to shut it down.” A
professor who challenges the right to private property, for example, is attacking the Constitution, according to Mr. Thornton, and there
ought to be a way to get rid of him.

I asked him about the colleges and universities now, compared to three years ago. “In general,” he told me, “they’ve
changed for the worse. You can see it in such things as colleges going co-ed when there is no need
for it, and men and women being housed in the same dormitories.” He didn’t know whether these students were any
more patriotic than they had been before. The Russian Communists are just as active as ever, according to Mr. Thornton,
and still intent on taking over the world. He cited the Encyclopedia Britannica article on Communism for this fact. Examples
of their influences include sex education for young children, and the “degradation of the public schools by busing, which doesn’t
work, and which lowers academic standards,” according to Mr. Thornton. He said that many colleges are having to simplify their
textbooks and lower their standards so that the incoming students can grasp the material. I replied that this didn’t seem
to be the case at Davidson. Mr. Thornton said that private schools like Davidson should not allow the federal government
to finance anything, because it would use its funds to blackmail institutions into submission, as, he said, it has done
in Chicago and Boston.“The federal government shouldn’t complain about the Arab oil-states because it blackmails its own people.” A great
threat to the U.S., Mr. Thornton states, is the U.N. “We are coming under the jurisdiction of the U.N., which
is run by countries who want to subject the U.S. to a One World government.”

“In general, the colleges have changed for the worse. You can see it in such things as going co-ed when
there is no need for it, and men and women being housed in the same dorms.” —E.P. Thornton

He explained that he was opposed to tenure being granted to professors who use that protection to make attacks on
the U.S. Constitution and on the free enterprise system.

Bandwagon
Thursday, January 30
7 p.m. Catholic Mass

Friday, January 31
7 p.m. Wrestling: Lingle Chapel Johnston Gym Western Carolina

Saturday, February 1
8 & 10:30 p.m. Popular Film: Love Auditorium “Take the Money and Run” Woody Allen wrote, directed, and starred in
this saga of a perfect crumb.
8 p.m. Basketball: Morganton, W. Va. West Virginia (WDAV Broadcast)

Sunday, February 2
Mr. Thornton said that he knew of Davidson alumni who wanted the college to get rid of such professors, but
who had met with no success. “I’m extremely conservative, and I get a lot of mail that shows that a
lot of people feel the same way.” He also cited the “horrible materials” that Princeton gives its entering students. I
mentioned the decline in “radicalism” on campuses. Mr. Thornton attributed this to the end of the draft and said that
he

Ward Jackson
7 p.m. Christian Fellowship Morrison Room
10 p.m. Davidsonian Staff Meeting Newspaper Office

Monday, February 3
7:30 p.m. Debate: Eu Hall Harvard
8:15 p.m. Organ Recital: DGPRGC Wilmer Welch

Tuesday, February 4
7 p.m. Women’s Basketball: Johnston Gym Guilford
7 p.m. Worship Service DOPRC
8 p.m. Basketball: Johnston Gym Richmond (WDAV Broadcast)

Wednesday, February 5
All week Exhibition: Ward Jackson “Watercolors 1958-1974” These twenty-five watercolors are the highlight of 16 summers of peas on North
Carolina's Outer Banks. A Richmond native, Jackson currently lives in New York where he is affiliated with the Guggenheim Museum.
He has exhibited with the Fleischman Gallery, the Riverside Museum, A.M. Sachs Gallery, and others.
7:30 p.m. Drama: Hodson Hall “Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead” Tom Stoppard ventures where Shakespeare feared to tread in this
riotous retelling of Hamlet’s struggle from the perspective of a pair of befuddled minor characters. Directed by Joseph T. Gardner.

Thursday, February 6
10 a.m. Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
Lecture: Francis Robicsek “Pre-Columbian Art”

Mr. Thornton was asked if he ever found himself agreeing with the liberals on particular issues, such as illegal C.I.A.
activities. He replied that it was a question of the C.I.A.’s motives, and that he wouldn’t want to see the
C.I.A. weakened. “After all, every country of any consequence has its secret service. It has to, to survive,” he said.

“Some of the Congressmen who are saying, don’t spy on us, might be part of an effort to emasculate the
C.I.A. and FBI, in order to render it ineffective against the Communists,” Mr. Thornton speculated.

Mr. Thornton said a conservative is someone who believes that the U.S. Constitution is the best instrument for government, and
who does not want to see it changed without compelling reasons. “I want to get back to the things that
made this country great,” he said.

Papers Typed
I will type papers for students at 35¢ per sheet at my home. Call Roberta Hoyle at 892-1294.
