January 23, 1975

The Davidsonian - Seven

Edwards Releases ‘Lucky Day’ Album

By LEE HUDSPETH
Staff Writer

On March 22 and 23, 1974, Jonathan Edwards closed the tour of his “The Let The Good Times Roll Show” at the Performance Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The music of that concert has been recently released as an album entitled “Lucky Day.” Jonathan Edwards has been one of my favorite artists for quite a while, but all bias aside, this album contains an impressive collection of good country music. Perhaps “country” isn’t the word I’m searching for, but in this world of generalities it will have to serve. However, this review may help enlighten you as to whether or not listening to his newest releases would be worth your time.

Nine of the 14 songs on the album have been recorded on at least one of his three previous albums. Since the release of his first album in 1971, he has developed considerably as an artist, as evidenced by the superb quality of this album. On this particular record, he plays the acoustic guitar, mouth harp, and does the lead vocals. At first, it disappointed me to discover that he does not write all his songs; yet he seems to be able to take from the lyrics the original intent of the author and insert his feelings also. So, although he may be singing another’s words, it is his soul that he pours into the songs.

The title song “Lucky Day” was written by Jonathan himself and I believe is a statement of his life philosophy.

It’s bound to be my lucky day
I'm goin’ away.
I'm goin’ away
Gonna find me a piece of land
And I'll work until I understand
That with love you could grow a forest in the sand...
I've said about all that I can
Words aren't any good no more.
Let the spirit open up your door

Cruising, Long Meadows, And Green Pastures

By BOB ENRIGHT
Staff Writer

So it’s Saturday night and you ain’t got no money. You’re hungry, yet can’t swing that trip to Slug’s Tower Suite. What to do? You could throw your hands up in despair, or you could hit Richards House. For the sake of your stomach, neither is recommended. Instead, why not borrow a few bucks and head up the Mooresville road to Gerri’s Kitchen.

Formerly known as Deal’s Grill, its proprietors junked that epithet in favor of a palatable description. It’s also been remodeled and no longer bears any resemblance to a truck stop. One can always excuse the latter on the basis that you can’t judge a book by its cover (a criterion which I have applied many times in travels throughout the South), yet Gerri’s Kitchen can be spared this acid test. Except for what almost resembled an authentic pot-bellied stove sitting in the corner, the main dining room is inconspicuous in every sense. Those who sit at the tables surrounding the counter are treated to the lyrics of Merle Haggard, Charlie Pride, et al., from a purple jukebox, if they are so inclined to operate it.

The fare consists of good Southern home cooking, at reasonable prices. Recommended are either the barbeque, country ham, or fried chicken, all priced at $2.50 for a complete dinner. Everything rated satisfactory except the iced tea, the quality of which has apparently fallen victim to the sugar scandal. The service, too, is quite good, and comes with a smile. But, alas, you can’t please everybody. Joining us for the evening were several reputable members of the Plantation, staked out on 1st Belk, all gourmets in fine standing. After condescending all the way from pompano to pork barbeque in one week, their comments could hardly be expected to be complimentary. “It was horrible,” one observed. Another, after discovering that country ham did not come with raisin sauce, opted for the southern fried chicken, which drew a more favorable response. “It just sounded good,” our friend remarked. “Anything that crunches that well has to be good.” Finally assured that one actually does leave a tip in “a place like this,” he left considerably better for the experience.

Afterwards, while cruising the Mooresville strip in search of a little action, why not stop at Long Meadows for dessert. The milkshakes, served with a spoon, are a meal in themselves. (Only problem is they don’t seem to be open in the evening this time of year.)

NEXT WEEK--The insider’s guide to self-selection.

Thursday, January 23:
All Week Sculptures & Drawings: John Kehoe
7 p.m. Catholic Mass
7:30 p.m. Eumenean Society

Friday, January 24:
MIDWINTERS WEEKEND

Saturday, January 25:
MIDWINTERS WEEKEND
Basketball: The Citadel (WDAV Broadcast)

Sunday, January 26:
7 p.m. Davidson Christian Fellowship Martin Room
10 p.m. Davidsonian Staff Meeting Newspaper Office

Monday, January 27:
Women’s Basketball: Catawba Johnston Gym
Basketball: Furman Greenville, S.C.
Alumni Organ Recital DCPC

Tuesday, January 28:
Worship Service
Fine Film: “Ashes and Diamonds”
An assassination gone awry precipitates a conflict between instinct and idealism within a young resistance fighter. A vivid portrait of a communist society.

Wednesday, January 29:
J.V. Basketball: Midlands Charlotte Coliseum
Basketball: Duke Charlotte Coliseum
Stowe Galleries Lingle Chapel Eu Hall 2 p.m. Johnston Gym DCPC

Thursday, January 30:
10 a.m. Coffee and Cokes Banquet HallIt shows you what we were all put here for. It begins with an electric guitar picking the melodic theme, followed by the vocals sung enthusiastically by Jonathan. A banjo picks along with the acoustic guitar backing up the vocals; easy drums and bass stay in the background. The impressiveness of this song lies in its vocal message so well matched by the music; all the instruments are there and make their presence known but without intruding. Serving as a base for the words to proceed from, the instrumental sound allows the vocal message to ring out clearly. This is the distinctive feature of Jonathan Edwards’ finer songs; he doesn’t waste time with long, drawn-out feats of instrumental endurance. Rather, he states his feelings in a simple song definitely attached to the music; both certainly dependent upon the other, but neither detracting from the other.

“Sometimes,” written by Malcolm McKinney, is a love song in a class all by itself. Jonathan’s voice is filled with all the pain, hope, dreaming, and love felt by the author.

Sometimes, in the morning I catch a falling dream, disappearing scene I’m gonna keep the old back forty for my home You can go there but you won't find my name And my songs don’t belong on Top 40 radio

He sings his songs with a real concern for his audience, hoping that they will understand that part of himself which he lets loose on the stage or in the studio. However, he does not seek fame and instant popularity which dies as soon as it has begun. He seeks a lasting relationship with his listener, and values the good earth, nature’s joyful abundance, and a woman’s love far more than flashing spotlights. This theme is carried on in his song “That’s What Our Life Is.”

They say I would shine like the light in the city I hoped it would be like the moon in the sea... Well I come on and let my soul out for an hour I play a few songs and go home with a flower But I don’t let it change all the things I believe in Like love and its music And I wish I wasn’t leaving

The song is a combination of his acoustic guitar setting the rhythm with the help of strong bass, a well-done piano, and the pedal steel’s presence unifying one line with the next and replying to the vocal statements. Jonathan sings with special emphasis on the line about “them” promising him fame in the city; he is always out to expose the foolishness of people attempting to force their peculiar lifestyle upon others. The song ends simply on the line “that’s the way our life is.”

Jonathan Edwards’ life has been a difficult one, especially during childhood as reflected by the words in “Sunshine” about military school. “Some man gone and tried to run my life, he don’t know what he’s asking. He can’t even run his own life, damned if he’ll run mine.” He carries this thought further into the political realm of our country with the words “he said in love and war all is fair, but Nixon’s got cards he ain’t showing.” Once again we see the importance of the individual. When he sings his message to whoever happens to be listening, he does so outside the glare of the spotlight; his audience comes to him quietly and freely.

“Give Us a Song,” written by Jonathan himself, is a combination of all that his life has been and will be. As you read the words, feel the warmth of this man as he relates what is most meaningful for him.

Give us a song to sing sweet Jesus Tell us the words you hear that may be kind And make it as long as the day’s work before us And tell me the tune to teach the people just in time

The devil has tried to sing a song of evil