~ +Pete Goodman

Up, up and away

Reggie Harding takes to the air in the long jump. The track team will end its home season Monday when
it hosts V.M.I. Events start at 2 p.m.

Davidsonian, April 10, 1975

Harriers even season record with Washington & Lee win

By MARK POSTOVE
Staff Writer

The Davidson track team evened its record at 3-3 for the season with a victory over Washington and Lee here
this past Wednesday. The win followed losses to Richmond and Campbell on the road.

In the Richmond meet, Davidson took only three firsts and six seconds in the nineteen events. The powerful Richmond team
swept five events to run up a 123-40 advantage. John Stanfield won the high jump and placed second in the
javelin. Allen Schaber captured his first win of the year in the discus, as did Bob Lautensack in the steeplechase.
Mark Connors, although weakened by bronchitis, grabbed second in both the 100 and 220 dashes.

The meet with Campbell was held in winds so strong that the pole vault had to be decided by a
coin-flip because it was too dangerous to jump. Times were

Tennis Cattes boast two wins, Drake looks to bright future

By STEVE JOHNSON
Asst. Features Editor

The Davidson College Women’s tennis team has begun its second season and the forecast looks good. Coach Pat Drake, taking
over the helm this year, expects an improvement over last year’s record and envisions an even stronger team next spring.

To offset the loss of last year’s strong number one player, Mary Miller, Drake has a hungry bunch of freshmen
this year, two of whom, Nancy Brown and Andrea Murphy, are playing in the top six. Depth is a positive
aspect of the team this season. The Cattes are solid down the line according to the coach. “On the team,
my numbers four, five, and six should be considered strong.” Drake will be counting on these players for consistent wins.

Sophomores Becca Stimson and Sue McAvoy hold down the number one and two positions respectively. Though they will be facing
some outstanding players, Drake affirms, “On a given day, Becca can knock off anyone she wants to, and Sue is
very consistent.”

The Cattes are a young team, and will graduate only one player this year. With a little bolstering by next
year’s freshman class this team could be very tough. The record at present stands at 2-2, with wins over Wake
Forest and Converse. The Cattes have only lost in a heart-stopper to Radcliffe and a rather decisive defeat by the
powerful Carolina team.

In the first match of the season, the Cattes topped the Wake Forest team, 5-4, where the doubles strength of
the Davidson netters proved to be the deciding factor. Dea Booth teams with Sue McAvoy for the number one team.
Stimson and hard-hitting Brown form the second team, and Andrea Murphy and Ruth Murphey make up the third pair. Coach
Drake will depend on the strength of these teams in the tight matches.

The schedule this year is similarto that of last year. Of the remaining matches, "Appalachian, Furman, and South Carolina will
all be tough teams, and of the three, Furman will be the toughest." Drake continued, "We might beat South Carolina."
It is her belief that teams should earn attention before receiving equal treatment. The bright future of the women’s tennis
team should help her in attaining that goal.

The track meet was extremely slow because runners had to fight the wind through the backstretch and final curve. The
Campbell Camels humped their way to victory, though, sweeping three events en route to an 86-59 triumph. Davidson was strong
in the running events, winning six of eight individual events. Connors and Greg Love were double winners, with Connors taking
the 100 and 220 while Love hurdled his way to victory in both the highs and the seldom run 180-yard
lows. Freshman Dick Boehner won the 880 while Coty Pinckney ran well despite the wind to outdistance his opponents in
the 3 mile. The only winners in the field were Stanfield and Schaberg, in the high jump and discus, respectively.

Davidson won eight of the ten running events and added three wins in the field to overpower Washington and Lee
by a score of 87-58. Connors again won both sprints, running an excellent 9.7 in the 100, and added a
second in the long jump. He also ran on the winning mile relay team, which clocked 3:25.3 for its fastest
time of the year. That team included freshmen Steve Justus, who just missed first place in the open 440, and
Boehner, who won his third 880 of the season in 1:58.2.

The Wildcats did well in both the hurdle and distance events, outscoring W&L 39 to 6 in the two hurdle
races, 880, mile, and 3 mile. Ricky Bell won the mile in 4:26.8 and finished third in the three mile.
Pinckney won that event in 15:22, while Lube Deal took second, giving Davidson its only sweep of the day. Love
and Bob Trumbo led a 1-2 finish in the high hurdles, while an obscure hurdler and Gary Danciger did likewise
in the intermediates.

Stanfield and Schaberg each recorded their third straight wins in their events. Stanfield leaped 6'4" to take the high jump,
and also placed second in the javelin. Schaberg hurled the discus 133' to win that event, and Woody Van Meter
went 13'6" for his third victory of the year in the pole vault.

The annual Davidson Relays will be held this Saturday, with over 15 schools from Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia participating.
Field events will begin at 11 a.m., with running events scheduled to start at noon.
