College to raise $35 million

Williams releases development draft

An initial draft of a ten-year fund-raising program with an objective of raising 35 million dollars for Davidson College was released by Vice President for Development Craven E. Williams. The draft, tentatively entitled Focus: 150, is being submitted for review by faculty, students, administration, and trustees, with the final plan for developing financial resources for Davidson to be endorsed by the Board of Trustees at its February 1976 meeting.

According to Williams, the college is presently raising approximately $2 million annually. The draft for the new financial program calls for an average of $3.5 million to be raised annually for the next ten years. “We’ve got to average nearly twice our present figure. In that sense, $35 million is a very sobering type of figure,” said Williams. “The college always has an ongoing development program, but with Focus: 150 we're talking about a highly orchestrated capital fund-raising program with highly defined objectives.”

The draft calls for $10 million in support for annual operations; $11 million in support for teaching, academic programs, and the library; $8 million in support for student scholarships and aid; and $6 million in support for campus development. The report cited capital improvements with the highest priorities as an arts building, a chemistry building, a field house and outdoor athletic facilities, food services, student housing, and warehouse and shop facilities.

Priorities in teaching include endowed professorships at $500,000, endowed faculty development funds at $25,000, and endowed faculty support funds at $20,000. Endowment funds for international study, interdisciplinary study, experiential learning, Honors Center, departmental library, and book funds are objectives for academic program and library support. Endowed honor scholarships for students at $75,000 and endowed student aid funds at $10,000 rank as top priorities in student support.

“$35 million is a tentative statement of the college needs over the next ten years balanced by a figure of the college potential. Of course, that figure is subject to change as further research defines our financial potential,” said Williams. “This ten-year plan, if it is to have any validity at all, must be revised with new projections each year.”

According to Williams, the college will not be able to stay in the black without a substantial boost of its present capital fund-raising. “Times are such that colleges and universities must maintain continual and consistent programs in capital development as in annual giving.” Williams foresees a deficit for Davidson or cutbacks in programs if present capital funds are not increased. “But we’re not going to let that happen,” he said, “because we’re going to keep expenses down and increase our income.”

According to Williams, the 60-page internal case statement for the project will be evaluated by the Faculty Executive Committee and the SGA Senate Executive Committee. Copies of the draft are on reserve in the library under Davidson College Development Office Internal Case.

Trustees grapple with governance

By DAN THORP
Staff Writer

The Trustee Governance Committee proposed to the full board several amendments to the Trustee By-laws in an effort to conclude work on a new college governance system. Debate at the October 17 meeting centered on amending the president’s power to stay or suspend actions taken by faculty or students. The current Trustee By-laws empower the president “to stay or suspend the effectiveness of any action by the Faculty or by any Faculty or student organization, and to remand the matter to the appropriate body or bodies for further consideration, or to bring it to the Trustees or their Executive Committee for review.”

The Governance Committee proposed an amendment limiting to seven days the period of review by the Trustees or its Executive Committee following the suspension, or the suspension would be terminated. This amendment was not acceptable to the board. Phillips explained to President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. that the amendment was never intended to compel the board to act within one week. Rather, it was intended that the board must initiate action during that time. A revised amendment.Docketed for action at the February, 1976 meeting reads, “If within the 7 day period the Trustees or its Executive Committee do not initiate review, the suspension is terminated. The Trustees or its Executive Committee shall make every reasonable effort to determine any question at issue within the 7 day period.” This amendment does not place a definite time limit on the completion of trustee review of a suspended action, according to SGA President John Munce. “There has never been a question of the right of trustee review throughout the five years; the main concern of students is to limit the suspension power so it cannot be used as a pocket veto,” said Munce. “This new amendment is not what I voted for or what I heard discussed in the Governance Committee. However, it can be lived with in the context of the governance system.

“The point of the resolution was to ensure that the trustees act with some responsibility to the rest of the community,” Spencer indicated that indefinite suspension of faculty or student actions is not the intention of the amendment. He claims that it is designed to protect students and faculty from unlimited presidential power. Spencer expressed opposition to the original Governance Committee amendment on the grounds that it would force the trustees to act within one week. He indicated that the board should not have the pressures of the seven-day limit when making such important decisions. Spencer indicated his satisfaction with a process similar to that employed in amending the Code of Responsibility. This would necessitate that suspension be submitted to the Board of Trustees which would then have to act on the suspension within 30 days. According to Spencer, this would prevent indefinite sus- (See SUSPENSION, page 2)

World War II Wounds: Davidson student recovers in Infirmary on ‘World War II beds’.

Trustees approve changes in infirmary staff, facilities
By SCOTT REID
Staff Writer

The Student Life and Health Committee of the Board of Trustees approved a six-point plan to improve the services and facilities at the Preyer Infirmary as recommended by the McFarland report. The first point in the plan drawn from the report compiled by Doctors James A. McFarland, Angus M. McBryde, and Hugh D. Verner calls for hiring of a physician’s associate or nurse practitioner to supplement the present infirmary staff. It also calls for the initiation of a search by the college and the town of Davidson for a full-time physician to serve both.

“A physician’s associate can do an awful lot for the doctors in the infirmary,” said Dean of Students Will H. Terry who drew up the six-point resolution approved by the Trustees. “He would be very helpful to the athletic teams because he could attend their home games and be in attendance at the infirmary when a doctor is not.

“Dr. McFarland said that at Duke University, where physicians’ associates have been employed for a number of years, it has gotten so that the students prefer to see one of the associates rather than one of the doctors because the associates can spend more time with them.”

“Not only will the associate at the infirmary save the doctors time,” added Terry, “but he will give more continuity as to who sees the student.” At present there are four doctors that serve the infirmary on a regular basis. The search for a physician to serve both the college and the town will be conducted by a committee to include, among others, Mayor Tom Sadler, at least two students yet to be named, and the town’s present physician, 77-year-old Dr. James B. Woods.

The second point of the plan calls for the college to secure “adequate facilities for the physician and the physician’s associate.” The school will consider remodeling the infirmary for use by both the college and the community. In such a case the physician’s offices would be in the Preyer facility.

Point number three of the plan directs the college administration “to implement a five-year plan to upgrade the (See INFIRMARY, page 3)