the davidsonian
October 24, 1975

SGA Senate readjusts parking fee
By SYDNEY J. HARRIS

In accordance with the addition to its procedural by-laws passed last month, the SGA Senate held its first annual masquerade party Tuesday night. It was the first all-night meeting of the year, but with the generous supply of beer and pretzels provided by Ron Scott, no one seemed to mind.

The first item brought up for consideration was a proposal to establish parking fines at $9.98. Arguing in support of the proposal, one of the senators, dressed as Tonto (1) for the evening, said, “I think the $9.98 price is an ideal compromise. In fact, it’s a bargain.” But Humpty Dumpty (2) responded with a half-hour blast. “I fail to see the bargain here. No one bargained with the average student, the guy who has to pay the fine.” He pounded his shell for emphasis. “It’s obvious to me that the administration would like nothing better than for us to pass this fine.” Presiding at the meeting, Mother Goose (3) heard six motions for discussion to be closed, but each was defeated. Three hours later, the motion was referred to committee.

The Senate then took up a consideration of the water fountains in the new Student Union building. According to Dumpty, “Shaw Smith (Union Director) has completely mismanaged this whole business. You go upstairs and the water from the fountains is lukewarm, almost hot; downstairs, and it sends chills to your jawbone. What I especially resent is how the Union Board was never even consulted as to what type of beverage the fountains squirt, much less the temperature of that beverage.” The Senate eventually passed a resolution that “consideration should be given to the Union Board when water fountains are hereafter installed.” The vote was 17-0, with one abstention. The Tin Man (4) summed up the resolution, “This may not be our most eloquent motion, but it serves a purpose that is precisely correct.”

The Comic Book Club then submitted a request for $150 of the Senate’s speaker funds in order to bring an alleged “Clark Kent” to Davidson as a lecturer. The Chancellor of the Senate, dressed as Puck (5) for the evening, reported current unspent Senate speaker funds to be $627.14, but there was nevertheless opposition to the bill. One of the senators, dressed as the Jolly Green Giant (6), argued that the integrity of the budget has to be preserved. “This request is ridiculous, ridiculous. I don’t even think the Senate has authority to give funds to this organization.” Puck raised his hand, but before he could reply, Jolly hastily corrected himself. “Oh, sure it can. I keep forgetting that the Senate can do anything.” Dumpty pointed out, “But I don’t see why we need to ‘Clark Kent’ from the outside when right here at D.C. we have our own Zack Long.” The weight of his argument carried the Senate. The vote against the request was 17-0, with one abstention.

The Senate also passed a stupid resolution callingfor The Davidsonian to replace its Senate reporter—clearly an ill-reasoned, ill-timed move. Rumor has it that no one is taking it very seriously. Later in the night, the Senate passed bills calling for the construction of two new dorms, the abolition of Wednesday classes, and the registration of Ron Scott in Dr. Maloney’s new “Food and Conscience” course (7). A bill calling for an increase in the number of Afghans among the resident dog population was defeated. Resolutions calling for student power, the survival of the college, campus-wide fun and frolics, and 100 percent literacy were referred to committees.

(1) Martin Eakes
(2) Marc Menchel
(3) John Munce
(4) Rick Roylance
(5) Brad Swalwell
(6) John Guthrie
(7) or, Dr. Kimmel’s “Nutrition and Health Physics” course

Fredrickson reports acceptance: Med spend money to bring in a school competition decreases. Fredricksen accepted after 28-year premedical grind

By ACE KOLODO
Staff Writer

Premedical Advisor and Chemistry Professor J. M. Fredricksen revealed yesterday that all his dreams were about to come true, as he had just been accepted on the Early Decision Plan to Bowman Gray Medical School. Fredricksen has always encouraged his students by telling the story of the man who has been trying to get into medical school for twenty-eight years, and who just keeps on applying. Yesterday, Fredricksen admitted that he was that student.

“I always thought my GPA was competitive,” said Fredricksen, “but before medical schools will even consider your application they want you to prove your true worth. This year I gave myself a superb recommendation.

“Visiting all of the medical schools in this part of the country and under the guise of an ambassador from Davidson College, gaining entrance to the Admissions Committee meetings, then getting down on my knees and pleading my cause really impressed them, I believe,” said Fredricksen. “Now I just have to keep up a sincere and hard-working front until the end of next year, and I’ll finally have it made,” Fredricksen exulted.

Fredricksen is the first Davidson College professor to enter medical school, although Biology Professor Donald L. Kimmel earned his M.D. before coming to teach at Davidson. “I tried to give Jim my M.D., since I really have no use for it now,” said Kimmel, “but he really wants to go to medical school—that is his life’s goal, which he has been living vicariously all these years through his students.”

Debate team (Continued page 2)

with some of our freshman mouthers. They ought to be good for at least another term before they forget what they learned about debate before they came here and file themselves into their own note-boxes.”

Despite the team’s winning record, all is not sweetness and light. Internal dissensions on the team manifested themselves in what seems to have been an attempt on Mrs. Cornell’s life. “I found a pack of Juicy-Fruit Gum on her desk beside a note asking her to walk across campus to Dean Terry’s office,” said team member Sam Crawford. “I removed the gum immediately. I just couldn’t imagine Davidson debate without Coach Cornell.”

“I think that debate is a good experience for every student,” said Mrs. Cornell.