1

the davidsonian

October 17, 1975

‘Off Again’ turns on in flickerball win

By KIRK COMBE and TOM BLACKWOOD

In the important world of IMAC flickerball, those spurting favorites “Off Again” came again and again to victory over a
mired Dungeon Demons, 25-0.

After the game, the Demons could only wipe their brows and say, “They just kept coming and coming.” Etc. also
established a winning way with an impressive 33-7 victory over first floor Richardson.

Cloud-nine referee George “close your eyes before you bleed to death” Loy wrote this in-depth comment on the scorecard: “Rock
Powers scored three TD’s, one on a 70-yard run to lead rout over inept Frosh.” You told us your back
was hurt, Rock.

In two exciting games containing action and blood galore, SAF won by forfeit over Cannon III and KA #1 (Hoo-raw!
Hoo-ray!) defeated PDT #1, 41-20. The boys of the nameless eating house did their thing and drained the stunned first-yearmen
by a score of 20-6. However, some faculty coaches, serving the injustice of it all, reeked vengeance upon Patterson Court
by annihilating PIKA, 31-0. Dirt flew as “Pat’s Dirty Old Men” set in motion their bump and grind offensive to
sweep aside the wide-eyed brothers of PIKA.

Pat “Looker” Prats, wearing special padding, said with a confident air, “They never touched me.” Oh, if you only knew
how they tried.

Finally, in the men’s division, those stupid - we mean, stupendous transfer students so aptly named Nazgut once again distinguished
their fun-loving attitude. This time they lost to IFT (who are rumored to be considering a name change to “Return
to Forever” in honor of Chick Corea) by the landslide total of 58-0.

Nazgut has yet to win a game. Larry “tongue like a lizard” Urbon QB’ed the Thi’s with impressive long-range lobs
to any number of open receivers while cornerback Cory “don’t bother me I’m mean-looking” Young picked off interception after interception.

Establishing a personal record, Rob “bend over and grab your ankles” Canning scored twice over the totally submissive Nazgut center.
Satisfied after his crucial scores, Rob smiled and said, “Me do good!”

We have one girls’ score this week: The ATO of the girls’ division, the Harlem Shufflers, came down hard on
the girls of 3rd Watts, 12-0. Bullet hard passes by the Shufflers repeatedly penetrated the soft nether zones of the
freshman girls’ defensive backfield (Weeeeeeee!) as two touchdowns proved to be enough for the upperclass women to win.

Jacobus (Continued from page 2)

appears lacking in an area, he is advised against taking the program.

“One of the primary goals of the program,” continued Dr. Jacobus, “is to complement the international aspects of the regular
curriculum.”

He pointed out that especially students taking such courses as International Politics of South Asia, Comparative Religions, the Religions of
South Asia, or South Asian Studies could benefit from the study of a non-Western language.

This term two students participated in the program, and they will continue their studies next term. Hopefully, others will enroll.
Interested students should see Dr. Jacobus. Last year twenty-three students took such languages as Japanese, Italian, Norwegian, and Russian.

“This program is a very good way to expand the linguistic possibilities at Davidson,” concluded Jacobus.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY MEMBER F.D.I.C.

THE PLANT INN Hanging baskets, Potted plants, Plant hangers, etc.

THE FINAL TOUCH

FLEUR ALICIA Cut flowers, Arrangements for all occasions

LA FROMAGERIE Wines, cheeses, Imported beers, French bread Mon.-Sat. 9-6 p.m. Sunday 1-5 p.m.

Located at Cle Food Market off 115. Left on Smith’s (in Hickey between Barrett’s and Agan’s Sun Stations)

WOODSHED 1105 NORTH MAIN STREET MOORESVILLE

HAPPY HOUR EVERY NITE FROM 8 - 9 DRAFT $.15

WEDNESDAY WED NITE IS BEER NITE - COVER $1.00 DRAFT $.25 CANS $.35

THURSDAY COVER $1.00

FRIDAY COVER $2.00 (LADIES FREE)

SATURDAY COVER $2.50

LIVE MUSIC WED THRU SAT

NEED A JOB?

THE SGA IS LOOKING FOR A NEW CHANCELLOR

Duties are roughly those of secretary-treasurer Important, paid position For information, contact: John Munce--North Main House -4583 Brad Swalwell S112
-7788 or drop by the SGA office [top floor of Union] any afternoon after 3:00

Oops: KA receiver Dave Thomas makes failing effort in recent flickerball action.
