April 24, 1975

NAD) 000R0 Fo logver.

The Davidsonian

Davidson Police Manning

Three

... Security returns Watts card-locks

(Continued from page 1)

three incidents in Watts last year the administration felt all precautions were necessary.

"Many people are under the impression that Davidson College is atypical of college communities—that is, that we have no problem with the town. This is not true, and this is the only reason the locks were put on the doors."

Last summer Stone surveyed the security systems at Williams, Duke, and Chapel Hill. She found Duke’s security system, which involves the card-lock doors, the most satisfactory because it is "completely student controlled."

The committee decided to adopt the system after a report on the Duke arrangement was presented to it last summer.

Terry stated, "The card-lock system was chosen because it is the least offensive, the most easily adaptable if cards are lost, and requires no extra personnel."

Although the doors are not presently functioning, the dean’s office shows every intention of reinstalling the locks so they will work. Stone stated, "It is my guess it (the card-lock doors) will be put back on in the summer."

Meetze and Nicholls indicated that the future of the card-lock doors was not their decision. Nicholls stated, "I don’t know anything about future plans for the doors. I’ve heard nothing since the original meeting last summer."

The card-lock doors were supposed to have been installed before students returned in September, but due to what Stone termed "poor communication between Meetze’s and the dean’s office," installation was delayed.

Under the card-lock system, women in Watts are issued key-cards that will unlock the door when inserted into a slot in the door. The door relocks automatically when closed. Each woman student in Watts is charged $1 for her card, which is refundable upon return at the end of the year. Lost cards cost $5 to replace.

If large numbers of cards are lost or stolen such that the dorm is no longer secure, the dean can collect all cards, change the mechanism in the door, and issue new ones at no charge.

Cards have only the manufacturer’s address on them and a number. There is no information that would give anyone who didn’t already know a clue as to what door it opened.

During vacations, the lock mechanisms on the doors are altered so students can’t unlock the doors. Changing the mechanism does not require the removal of the locks; security personnel can easily adjust the mechanisms and change the magnetic field.

The card-lock doors operated for less than a week in winter term before the locks were removed by students. Stone called this an "immature way to deal with the problem." She feels certain that the doors were removed by students not residing in Watts.

"It’s not a problem with the freshmen. They are used to restrictions from home," she stated.

The screens were installed on 1st floor Watts windows for "total security," according to Stone. "What is the point of locking the door if someone can come in the window?" commented Stone. "It’s just a question of whether it’s convenient or easy for someone to climb in the window. Someone might do it for a prank and wind up in serious trouble."

Stone is aware that the screens can be removed from the outside, but, she stated, "You’d have to do some work getting it off and chances are somebody would see you."

Stone readily admits that the time the door is to be locked at night is completely arbitrary, and that the card-lock doors are no more effective than the women locking their own doors. "However," she said, "you suffer unpleasant consequences if they don’t."

Stone indicated that such doors are not put on Little because the men on the first floor are "adequate security." The same method is not adopted for Watts due to "parents’ objections," according to Stone. She stated that if there were no men in Little and the college followed a consistent security policy, card-lock doors would have to be installed.

The administration is aware of the resolution passed by the SGA a little over a month ago which requested that "Davidson College not re-install the card-locks on Watts dorm, and that the College remove the screens from the first floor."

... Workers fail to get substantial benefits

(Continued from page 1)

"Every supervisor we have here is a trainer and instructor. We’ve trained everybody we have here," said Meetze.

"Now it is true that we don’t have a classroom training program, but if we did, we wouldn’t get any work done. We offer on-the-job training."

According to Meetze, any employee who gains admission to Central Piedmont Community College (CPCC) to learn a skill is entitled to receive compensation to cover his tuition expenses.

"Several workers have taken advantage of CPCC course offerings," commented Meetze.

Several black employees said that they had never been informed of the opportunity to take courses, all expenses paid, at CPCC.

"Maybe they just let the semi-skilled and skilled workers in on that deal, but no one never told us about that," said one employee.

"How can we learn a skill if we are not trained, and given the chance to get some training in a school?" asked another employee.

According to Meetze, "Some workers don’t want to advance, and so they never take advantage of the training options which we provide."