the davidsonian
October 31, 1975

By JAMIE KOLODITCH
Staff Writer

Ever since Eric Clapton started his long-awaited comeback, those who have not been “privileged” enough to see him in concert
have wondered, with good reason (in light of 461 Boredom Blvd. and There’s One in Every Crowd), whether or not
“Slowhand” could still play the guitar. E. C. Was Here is the answer, and the answer is yes—Clapton is still
one of the best guitar players in rock. The problem is that one hot guitarist does not a good band
make.

The first consideration when looking at this album is the song selection, and that is a real problem, because two
of the tracks are songs appearing on earlier live albums from Clapton—“Have You Ever Loved a Woman?” and “Presence of
the Lord.” A comparison with those earlier cuts shows some of the problems of Clapton’s new band.

“Have You Ever Loved a Woman?” leads off the album and is one of the two best-working songs on the
album, the other being “Further On Up the Road,” but it is still not quite as good as the earlier
Derek and the Dominos live version. The main reason is the band. The drummer (Jamie Oldaker) does not rate playing
with Eric Clapton—he does nothing on this cut, or on any other cut, for that matter. Carl Radle seems to
have fallen into an extreme lethargy—he’s nothing compared to his old self. It’s quite possible that that is the fault
of the drummer, because there’s no one except Radle to present a real beat, and he has little chance to
be as creative as on earlier albums. There’s nothing to say about the keyboard man, because he does absolutely nothing.
Still, this cut is a good one, because Clapton just cooks on the guitar, and he does his best vocals
of the album, making you feel the blues like the Clapton of old.

Following the first cut is “Presence of the Lord,” which is a disappointment. It’s not nearly as good as the
Derek and the Dominos version. Clapton attempts to make it sound really like gospel, but my impression is that it’s
more schmaltz than anything else. The cut lacks the tremendous energy that it had before, not only in regards to
the vocals, but also in the instrumentation.

Splinters await dance students in Love

By ANNE FICKLEN
Staff Writer

As one student put it, “I’m tired of picking splinters out of my skin,” while another student was gouged in
the heel with a splinter during class and her heel bled so badly she had to stop the class. The
class cannot dance in the gym, which is too big a space, or in Hodson Hall because the scenery trolleys
create hazards. Moreover, the dancers are supplied only with makeshift portable bars which have a habit of disappearing and lack
mirrors.

Ms. Linda Mallonee, who teaches tap, ballet, and modern dance at Davidson, suggests the dance classes have their own room
because “the interest in dance is certainly here. It took off last year with Anything Goes,” stated Mallonee. There are
now thirty-four students enrolled in the three dance courses, six of whom are male. Mallonee feels students should be allowed
to receive© Flowers e Plants e Gifts e Cheese e Wine e Bread

...all five credits in dance, including credit as a team course. Mallonee is herself a professional dancer with a dance
studio in Charlotte. She has studied in New York with Arthur Mahoney and Madame Hilda Butsova (Anna Pavlova’s understudy) as
well as in Miami, Greenville, and Raleigh. She expressed amazement at the possibility of Ballet Folklore, part of the Artist
Series, dancing on the stage of Love Auditorium. “I’m sure if they knew about the state of the stage, Davidson
would be embarrassed to offer a professional dance corp a floor in a condition like this.”

The Davidson dance classes are suffering from a general lack of space and equipment. All dance classes are taught on
the stage of Love Auditorium which has a severe splinter problem. Mallonee hopes to expand the dance offerings and offer
an intermediate class in ballet to people who have had previous experience in ballet.

-Irv Wilson

Dominos also to the lead. Clapton’s guitar doesn’t sound as driving on this cut as on the first cut of
the album, nor does it have the incredible tone that Clapton put into the Derek and the Dominos version. The
worst part of the song is the sirsirs of Yvonne Elliman—it would have much better effect if Clapton were to
sing it alone.

“Drifting Blues” is the next song on the album. While it’s a change of pace, it’s still a funky acoustic
blues that doesn’t quite come together. The guitar work isn’t bad, but on the whole, the cut is uninspired and
uninspiring—cute but trite.

Starting off side two is the old Blind Faith tune, “Can’t Find My Way Home,” which is one of the
better cuts on the album. Starting off rather slowly, and with Yvonne almost ruining the song, the finale is yet
well-done and comes out as a decent cut.

“Rambling on My Mind” shows perfectly the two basic flaws of Clapton’s band—the generally uninspired performances of the back-up and
a curious lack of energy. Clapton’s lead is excellent, but this is hurt by the general inaction of the rest
of the band, with an outrageously bad drummer. The other problem is the dead vocal performance of Clapton. This is
a real slow blues cut, and slow blues, if it is to have any impact at all, needs a driving
vocal, which is not found.

The final song of the album, “Further on Down the Road,” is a truly excellent moving blues cut. Clapton’s vocals
are fine and the band mixes well. Not even the drummer could ruin this cut, though he sure made quite
an attempt.

For just about any other artist, E. C. Was Here would be considered a triumph; however, Clapton isn’t just any
other artist. For years he represented the best in rock, and this album isn’t a triumph for him, except in
the sense that he managed to record a decent live album in spite of the gross incompetence of his band.
Clapton is still good though sometimes uninspired. This album is bearable and wouldn’t be a bad buy if one is
prone to buying a lot of albums; however, if one is a choosy record collector and desires some live Clapton,
one would do better to pick up on Derek and the Dominos. Clapton is still Clapton, but the band isn’t
the Dominos.
