March 20, 1975

Hsu Pleads For Unified Earth Through Pan-Cultural Insight

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

“China and the U.S. are drawing closer in a technological sense and farther apart in a psychological and cultural sense... As soon as possible children in the United States should study the literature and art of countries like China, India, and Japan as well as their own.” These comments were made by Professor of Anthropology Francis I.K. Hsu who lectured last Tuesday night on “Understanding China and the U.S.” Hsu came to Davidson as a Piedmont lecturer. He was born in Manchuria, educated at the University of Shanghai and the University of London, and has taught at Northwestern University since 1947 where he is now chairman of the Anthropology Department.

Hsu’s major areas of research have been in culture and personality, and in comparisons among Chinese, Indian, Japanese, and American cultures. During the summer of 1972, he visited China for nine weeks and interviewed people from many areas of Chinese society including his relatives, educators, and high government officials. Hsu commented that both Chinese and Americans are searching basically for three things—security, sociability, and status. The symbols and tools differ in each culture and in different time periods, but the needs remain the same.

“The West is seeking individual experiences. In China from the beginning they were seeking the relational patterns.” Hsu said that China and the United States, if they meet, must draw together from this basis. He cited growing public concerns in the United States over national policies (especially in the sixties) and in environmental areas as evidence of a more community-oriented society.

“We must educate people to be more concerned about social goods. American society will otherwise be strangled by rugged individualism,” Hsu commented.

In his lecture, Hsu pointed out that in all cultures an overlapping of roles and efforts exists. Roles deal with questions of usefulness (What can I produce for you?). Efforts deal with emotions, opinions, and beliefs (How do I feel about you?). “The patterns of effort differ very much between China and the U.S. All you have to do is look at some of the Chinese novels and look at some of your own novels as well,” Hsu explained. He stressed the number of western novels written in first person, the emphasis on male-female relationships and romance, and the quest aspect of novels like “The Iliad” and “Moby Dick” as characteristic of the western interest in glorification of the individual. Hsu explained that, in the case of the Iliad, a Chinese would ask Agamemnon, “Is this trip necessary?” He concluded, “A story like that wouldn’t excite the Chinese.”

The lecture centered around a discussion of four aspects of Chinese and American cultures. The Chinese emphasize continuity, inclusiveness, authority, and asexuality. In contrast, Western societies emphasize discontinuity, exclusiveness, volition, and sexuality. Continuity is expressed in China in an ever-increasing number of close, life-long relationships. These relations predominate in Chinese family relationships among cousins, aunts and uncles, and in-laws as well as the immediate family. Discontinuity expresses itself in America through loose family ties (except immediate family) and in the loss of friendships with the passage of time.

In China, people rarely have such exclusive orientation as a special church affiliation. Western man’s gods are exclusive gods—an absolutely private relationship exists between the individual and God. Privacy is more highly valued in the West, and Americans are tougher about their right to privacy. In China, the society is authority-oriented, according to Hsu. One man does not mind that decisions are being made for him. In the United States, a person must at least make it look like he is making the decision himself. A political leader must make it look like the people are formulating policy.

A sexually oriented culture like the United States has many avenues for sexual expression, according to Hsu. Sexuality manifests itself in pornography, fashions, and even in dog food advertisements. Hsu said that for an asexual culture like China, sexuality can be just like the need for food. “You don't have to have pornography of food to enjoy food, and you don't have to have pornography of sex to enjoy sex.”

On China’s present position in history, Hsu commented, “The revolution of 1949 is only the last of a series of revolutions that occurred in China. All those have had some effect. All those were due to the coming of the West. The housekeeping problem with China was how to deal with the invaders. So the Chinese have had to make some arrangements to deal with these problems. My point is that these revolutions have not changed everything; the Chinese is in there if you look... the techniques have changed.”

Dr. Francis Hsu

Student Legislature Attracts Five Students To Delegation

By ANDREW LAMAS
ExecutiveEditor

Five Davidson students will attend the North Carolina Student Legislature in Raleigh between the 19th and 23rd of March. The Student Legislature was begun in 1937 and has taken place every year since then. It attempts to be a model state legislature in which students may participate fully, proposing bills which will be discussed and voted upon. In recent years, 55 percent of all student bills passed by committees at the NCSL got by the general assembly. Every bill passed is reviewed.

Gordon Widenhouse, Andy Lamas, Martin Eakes, Paul Mitchell, and Randy Sherrill make up the first Davidson College delegation to attend the NCSL in thirteen years. They will put forth a bill designed to initiate magistrate reform. Most North Carolina schools send a delegation to the Student Legislature each year, and almost every school brings at least one bill. The number of participating delegates this year will total nearly 400 from 40 colleges.

Among the legislation will be Greensboro College’s proposal to protect the rights of rape victims and East Carolina University’s suggestion to decriminalize public drunkenness, prostitution, gambling, and marijuana. Bills recommending a lowering of the drinking age, state subsidies for North Carolina residents at private colleges, and revision of automobile insurance criteria will also be introduced.

The Davidson College bill is the result of PIRG group research and proposes raising the qualifications necessary for a magistrate’s position to include at least one year of legal training; it also recommends that magistrates’ salaries be raised to attract more qualified people. The Davidson NCSL program is experimental this year. Delegation leader Gordon Widenhouse would like to see a group go every year but finds Davidson students uninterested for the most part. Other North Carolina campuses see great competition for places at the Student Legislature, but this is not true at Davidson. Widenhouse thinks this is unfortunate as “Davidson has probably the highest quality students per capita of any school in the state.”

“I think this is a worthwhile program with practical experience for anybody interested in politics as a possible career or interested in seeing how government works,” he added. Widenhouse hopes this year’s delegation, which returns four members next year, will provide a strong and enthusiastic core for future groups. He thinks this first attendance in more than a decade is important in that it could generate support for the NCSL program at Davidson. At Raleigh, Widenhouse and Mitchell will attend Senate meetings, while Eakes, Lamas, and Sherrill will sit in the House. Howard Baker, late of the Senate Watergate Committee, will be keynote speaker at the NCSL.

Senate Rejects Independent Counsel
By MARK GERGEN
Staff Writer

The Senate rejected a proposal to place a lawyer on retainer in Tuesday’s meeting. The proposal would have been for twenty hours of legal service for $200. President John Munce stated the need for the lawyer, “They would provide us with advice on Title 9, Watts Security, and other problems we have had...They will also assist us with the implementation of the Bill of Rights.” Senator Bo Baskins stated, “In the past, the Senate has used the same law firm as the college. When it has been a question of the Senate against the College, the firm has always supported the College, to the disadvantage of the Senate’s position.”

Last week Dan Sheely, of Blum & Sheely, came and spoke to the Senate. Complaints of the senators were centered on Sheely’s presentation to the Senate. Stated Senator John Guthrie, “Maybe we should appreciate Mr. Sheely’s frankness, but quite frankly it appalls me.” Senator Dana English stated, “It would be good for the Senate to hire someone the administration will consider a competent professional.” She went on to add that the lack of notice many Senate resolutions have received may be in part because of the lack of administration respect for them. Guthrie concluded the debate stating, “To the students of Davidson College, and particularly to the Senate, $200 is a lot of money.” Questioning the financial justification for the proposal, Guthrie then called for a vote by voice.

Supporting the proposal were Senators Baskin, Reid, Roylance, and Shewmake. Voting no were Senators Brown, Eakes, English, Green, Guthrie, Jonas, Palmer, Smith, and Taylor. Clark, Foushee, and Phillips abstained. The final vote was 4-9.

In other actions, the Senate heard a report from Senator Rick Roylance on the new Union. Senator Steve Smith proposed and had approved a survey to discover the views of the students on the Goals Committee and what its priorities should be. The Senate also appropriated money to send one person to a conference in Charleston. Senator Mitchell Garrell resigned his position as Senator for Richardson dormitory. Anne Garou and George Reedy were absent.