The Vol. LXIV. No. Twenty-eight

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036

May 15, 1975

Means nominates Butner ’75 for Board of Trustees post

By MARK DEATON
Editor

Former SGA President Blair Butner has been nominated for a position on the Davidson College Board of Trustees. Melvin Means
’40 of Concord nominated Butner from the floor of the Alumni business meeting to fill a position elected by the
Alumni Association. The Alumni Association elects 2 members to the board each year for four-year terms. Other candidates, all nominated
by the Alumni Nominating Committee, are John T. Ferguson, J. McChesney Jeffries, Larry J. Dagenhart, and E. Craig Wall. Ballots
listing the 5 candidates will be mailed this summer to all members of the Alumni Association. The Alumni Association consists
of all alumni of the college and will include all members of the class of 1975.

Butner has expressed concern that there are no recent students on the board. “I think the board would benefit from
having a very young alumnus who has seen the campus at first hand as a student,” said Butner. “Considering the
fundamental changes in academics, social life, athletics, and other areas right down the line, a very recent alumnus would be
an invaluable member of the Board of Trustees.” Not one member of the board has been on campus as a
student since the implementation of the new academic programs, the denationalized fraternity system, desubsidized football program, or coeducation.

“I think the board needs the added dimension and perspective of someone who has been active here as a student
during these changes, who has been involved in campus affairs, and who has demonstrated a concern about Davidson. I think
we need that kind of person, and I think I could fill that need,” said Butner.

Director of Alumni Relations Howard B. Arbuckle III expressed interest in electing a slate who would not only represent alumni
interests but be elected through other election procedures such as presbytery elections. “We want to be sure we present a
slate whereby the talents of that slate will supplement those already on the board,” said Arbuckle. He added, “I think
there’s a need for younger representation.” The youngest trustee at present is 40 years old. The most recent alumnus on
the board graduated in 1958.

Butner expressed concern that faculty and students were not communicating as closely with the board as possible. “Faculty and students
are every bit as much the college as the board and the administration. While the trustees and the administrators are
of course making policy decisions, these decisions affect the faculty and students fundamentally as well.

“The new governance system being implemented is built on trust and intercommunication among all factions of the college. We must
all be willing to communicate with one another, and I feel that with my strong ties with students, faculty, and
administrators—and to a lesser degree Trustees—I could facilitate the kind of interaction we need to make this system work,” Butner
added.

Butner serves as a member of the Trustee Governance Committee, and as chairman of the subcommittee drafting the Student Statement
of Rights.

—Leon Venable

Keeping communication lines open

Former SGA President Blair Butner stresses his platform of inter-facet communications.

Trustees ignore Goals’ Committee plea for permanent long-range planning body

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

“We were labeled a ‘rubber stamp’ committee; there were manifestations of tension and frustration both within the committee and on
campus regarding the committee’s assigned responsibilities and the way the committee went about discharging them.” This statement, incorporated into the
Goals Committee final report that was completed on May 1st, expresses the self-realization of the problem experienced in the last
four months of meetings and study. Upon completion of the final report, the Committee’s work ended, and their analysis of
priorities for 1987 at Davidson was delivered to the...Develop: Parade begins active Town Day festivities

A carnival, a parade, exhibits, and entertainment will highlight Davidson Town Day this Saturday, May 17, from 12:30 to 5:30
p.m. According to Student Organizer Kenji Eiler, “Town Day is an occasion to bring students and the other town members
together. I feel there should be more opportunities for this kind of interaction to occur,” he said.

This year’s festivities include a Main Street parade beginning at 11:30 a.m., assorted booths, displays, and vending stands at the
carnival on the Village Green, and a free movie “Claudine” to be shown at the Davidson Community Center at 7
p.m. The college will run nine booths at the carnival including a dunking booth, a make-up booth run by the
Drama Department, a ball toss, Pepsi toss, Lollipop toss, tic-tac-toe, nutty buttons, a treasure hunt, and a cake walk with
cakes supplied by the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Scheduled to man the dunking booth this year are town and college celebrities including Dean of Students Will H. Terry,
John Bird, Laura Jackson, Larry Horowitz, Joe Duncan, Ron Scott, Ralph Quackenbush, Zach Long, and Eric Vernon. Any money raised
from the college booths will be earmarked for the YM/YWCA.

“Last year was the first time we’d had a carnival in many years,” said Eiler. “I would guess we had
well in excess of 2000 people turn out for the event. I think it was very successful in bringing out
a lot of enthusiasm in the community, especially among students,” said Eiler.

After studying the report, the Trustees asked College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. to bring his plans for 1987 to
the Fall meeting for consideration. Vice-President for Development Craven Williams commented, “I don’t think that any of the recommendations that
came out of the Goals Committee report were unexpected or dramatic.” However, if not dramatic, the results were quite specific
for a committee that admitted being ladened with “manifestations of tension and frustration.”

The Committee believes that by 1987 the College’s profile will include “a strong faculty committed to the highest quality of
undergraduate education in the arts and sciences,” “a coeducational, residential community with a commitment to education within the Christian tradition,”
opportunities for learning and service outside the classroom both on and off campus, and a “strong independent college.”

The Committee suggested strongly that a permanent group “charged with the responsibility for continuous, long-range, educational planning be created.” The
report added, “It became apparent that the college does not have a formal procedure whereby a group of students, faculty,
and administrators can formulate a long-range, educational plan for the college and can monitor continuously all planning and decisions with
the view of keeping within the master plan or making appropriate revisions of the master plan.”

As yet the Trustees have not appointed such a committee, however concerning the Trustees’ appointment of Spencer to summarize plans
and bring them to the Fall Board meeting, Williams commented, “I think it’s proper for the Trustees to deal with
the College through the President.” Williams expects that Spencer will consult widely throughout the community during the summer.

The Goals Committee suggested that new programs be created only when they have been funded in initial and in continuing
operational costs. They also suggested that the College construct physical facilities only when they have funds both for the initial
costs and for maintenance thereafter. The Committee suggested that Davidson place more emphasis on its liberal arts program as preparation
for “solid vocational employment” and that Davidson’s emphasis on preparing people for graduate and professional schools be set in a
more balanced perspective.

Further recommendations by the Committee included careful evaluations to strengthen worthwhile educational programs, to reduce over-expanded ones, (See COMMITTEE, page
14)

Ceasing Publication

The Davidsonian editors and staff wish everyone a pleasant summer vacation. The Davidsonian will resume on September 11.
