May 9, 1975 The Davidsonian

Three College bids for contract postal facility
By MARK EDEATON

Balancing community relationships

College administrators made a bid of $17,000 Monday to the District Postmaster in Charlotte for rights to operate a contract
postal station in the new Grey College Union. If the bid is accepted, the United States Post Office would pay
the college $17,000 annually to run the full-service contract station. Director of Personnel Robert J. Stephenson, coordinator of the study
on a campus postal system, expects a reply from the postal authorities as to the acceptability of the bid within
the next two weeks. Oscar Sloan, head of the District Post Office in Charlotte, has scheduled a meeting with college
administrators concerning the matter Friday, May 16.

“I don’t see why they wouldn’t be able to decide pretty quickly. The District Postmaster has the say-so,” said College
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

The possibility of the college operating a campus post office separate from the Town of Davidson Post Office has caused
considerable concern within the town. Town Council member and Bridgeport Fabrics Executive H. B. Naramore expressed his disapproval of such
a system. “I think it would be a setback to the town, a reversal of progress,” said Naramore. “We’ve always
considered Davidson College students as citizens of the town; I think this smacks of citizens of the campus, and for
that reason, I deplore it.

“The college has got to do what’s best for it. My only point is that I trust that they will
make allowances for the effect of their decisions on the total community.” Naramore expressed concern over the changes in traffic
flow in the downtown area. “Any merchant wants exposure. If you’re talking to a prospective investor in the downtown area
and tell him that the college is making a move of this kind, I don’t see how that could be
anything but discouraging,” said Naramore.

Quackenbush expressed concern that a campus post office would have detrimental effects on the downtown merchants. “The feeling on Main
Street is very much against it,” said Quackenbush. “The present post office location gives students a reason to cross the
street. After picking up their mail, they go frequent the merchants on the street, and I think that’s a good
thing.

“Moving the post office from downtown will lessen the contact between the town and gown groups. There has been increasingly
greater contact between the two groups over the last several years. I’m afraid they’re going to destroy the whole thing.

“I don’t think this would be an ethical decision on the part of the college. It’s a lot of good
will that they’d be losing,” said Quackenbush.

Many members of the Davidson College faculty have bristled at the proposed campus post office. “I'd hate to see the
college lose its contact with the community, even to the degree that community contact is made in the post office.
Although it’s coincidental, students and townspeople do meet and community-student contact is actualized,” said Professor of Classics George Labban Jr.

“I really hate to see what’s going to happen to the people at the post office. It seems to me
that this is a genuine concern. I think they have provided good service to the community,” said Labban.

Professor of Philosophy John J. Young added his voice in opposition to a campus contract station. “I would emphatically not
be in favor of it,” said Young. “There is the question of putting in jeopardy the jobs of some of
the men in the post office now. And a separate campus post office certainly is not going to do anything
for college relationships with the rest of the town.”

College Union Director C. Shaw Smith pointed to the potential benefits of the campus post office, indicating that a campus
station would not be detrimental to the community. “If I thought it was going to hurt the community, I’d have
to take the same stand I’ve been taking for 23 years and say no to it,” said Smith. “I don’t
want this to hurt or appear to hurt the town.

“I’ve wanted this for 23 years, but there hasn’t been any logic for us to have it. Now there is.
Ultimately, I think it’s going to be better for everyone concerned.

“Students will come for one service and get the extras they want if they just know they’re there. That’s why
it’s the house of serendipity—you come and you get more than you bargained for,” said Smith. “This is going to
be the best test of our program that we’ve ever had.”Students will have to turn down programs now rather than
not attend simply because they didn’t know about them. With the whole community coming to the post office, especially at
the 10 o’clock hour, they’ll all hear the same announcements, see the same signs, be exposed to what’s going on.
“This will be the best communication system for a small campus where we all think we’re communicating but find out
that a lot of times we’re not. The post office would make the union a center that’s automatic for seeing
each other, and that’s one way to increase community. Off-campus students will automatically be more a part of the college
than ever before. Especially if we build a second campus off the beaten track, this will include them which is
terribly important in keeping a residential college atmosphere intact. If we can live through this period of understandable emotional involvement
so that we can see the facts as we believe they ultimately will be, I honestly think this situation will
be better for all. This decision has been made carefully and considerately over many long years. It would be unfair
for us not to move now,” Smith said.

In a letter to Town of Davidson Mayor Tom S. Sadler, Spencer indicated that Sloan “assured us that although the
staff of the present post office would in all probability be somewhat reduced, any staff member affected would immediately be
given employment elsewhere in the district.” However, Davidson Postmaster William T. Mayhew pointed out that the district extends north-south from
Greensboro, N.C. into South Carolina and east-west from Asheville to somewhere in Union County, an area roughly within a 100-mile
radius of Charlotte. “All these guys have homes here and families. We’re not just thinking about a man, we’re thinking
about families,” said Mayhew. “I don’t know how many of them could leave. We’ve all got some strong ties in
the community,” he said.

Mayhew indicated that the present Davidson Post Office was one of only twelve post offices in this section of over
200 stations which is breaking even financially. “In other words, our cost of operation is less than the amount of
money we generate. It costs us about $0.87 to generate $1,” said Mayhew. The District Postmaster has estimated that the
present postal facility would have to be expanded within five years and possibly within two to accommodate the projected increase
in population in the area. The college owns the building and rents it to the post office. The college would
be responsible for expanding the facility. “That doesn’t seem to be a very attractive option as it would require capital
outlay,” said Spencer. He sees the building of the campus contract station as a move which could potentially save the
college the expense of expanding the downtown facility in the near future. In addition, Stephenson estimated that the college would
save approximately $1500 a year on costs of student mailings. “We don’t know what the exact savings would be, but
obviously there would be some there. The $17,000 bid would be strictly recovering the costs of operation with a deduction
from the anticipated box rental fees,” Stephenson said. “We could come back to them periodically with some justification for a
cost increase. With the present inflation, they would be willing to renegotiate the contract.”

... student rights (Continued from page 1)

“2. The President shall have the authority either to stay or to by any Faculty or student organization, and to
remand the matter to the appropriate body or bodies for further consideration, or to bring it to the Trustees or
their Executive Committee for review. Any action of the Faculty or other bodies requiring the outlay of new and unbudgeted
funds of the College must have the concurrence of the President.

“3. The initial chartering, and also the continuance of any group or organization on the campus shall be subject to
the approval of the President and the Faculty.”

The subcommittee considered that these powers would only be exercised in extreme or extraordinary circumstances, however. Another point at issue
is the fact that the faculty has its academic freedom and tenure explicitly defined in Article X of the College
Constitution. Therein are included highly detailed procedures for the protection of these rights. Nowhere in the College Constitution are they
so stated and institutionalized. Butner rejoined, “I feel the students merit a similar statement.”
