March 20, 1975

Sige Bavideonian: Five Thom Nicoll Erie Walker

Commencement this spring will be held in ponchos and hip boots instead of caps and gowns. A Davidson man needs no introduction. He’s the one at the head of the bread line with a genuine sheepskin umbrella.

I insist that I was only joking. It was during exams and I mumbled over morning coffee that even though the last two commencements had been beautiful days, I had received a 3 a.m. vision that it would rain whenever I graduated. I didn’t mean to offend. Now all the autos I depend on are sinking up to windshields in backyard bog. Will it rain or won’t it on diploma day? Anyone searching for a raffle idea to pay the spring phone bills might try this. The first name drawn to correctly predict the weather gets a substitute for baccalaureate.

University Creates Management

Davidson engenders gentlemen. Even our women students would be gentlemen, if they were only men. That is why we said that the role of the university is to create gentlemen. I learned about this in a highly insightful article by Peckham in the current issue of the South Atlantic Bulletin. Professor Peckham is a well-esteemed teacher and critic who is now at the University of South Carolina. His article is entitled “A Doctor of Philosophy in the Humanities?” but he covers a lot of ground before he comes around to answer his own question affirmatively.

Professor Peckham makes a number of outrageous observations, which are probably also true, about the academic establishment (the academic Mafia, as he puts it). Most of these I shall leave for your own personal perusal. One line of analysis, however, cut the darkness of my misunderstanding like a lightning bolt, blinding me with its lucidity. Here it is. I can do no other.

According to Peckham, what Newman actually meant, and what the traditional role of the university has been, is the creation of a bureaucracy of social management. This group is composed of an intelligent and well-educated elite, whose role it is to operate the institutions of government and industry, and above all, to impose the real ruling ideology or ideologies, thus preventing decision-making by the use of force. The task of this elite consists of verbal manipulation, and it depends upon persuasive rhetoric. Public education is the government’s method of making people amenable to social management. Extended public education, formerly to age 17, and now, for half of the population, to age 22, has the function of keeping millions of young people off the labor market. The university no longer selects the fraction of the group needed for merit management, as it did before World War II; rather, it becomes merely a device for “custodial maintenance.” The consequent effects on the level of academic work are considerable.

The reason that I find all of this so revealing is that it abolishes the conflict I have been worrying over for the past year: that conflict between Davidson’s professed liberal arts, but actual pre-professional and pre-managerial orientation. A “liberal arts” education, with selected students, in which one is taught to deal with alternative ideologies in light of the reigning one, and becomes proficient in the use of words and ideas, is only the best method for turning out “gentlemen” to take over the responsibilities of maintaining, enforcing, and modifying (as the need arises) the system.

Davidson, unlike most of the large state and private colleges, has not allowed itself to become a custodial maintenance institution. Davidson takes only the promising, discourages the “incapable” into transferring to large State U., and turns out tomorrow’s college presidents, doctors, lawyers, corporation heads, ministers, and more.

Spring Deluges Invoke Muddied Grad Ideas

I, for one, would feel more appropriate and ceremonious in a poncho and hip boots. After all, don’t we don cap and gown in imitation of the old day-to-day dress of institutional learning’s forefathers? And what is the day-to-day dress of Davidson these days? Alas, I suspect that somewhere there lurks a practical administrative soul in charge of ceremonies who is blind to the romance of an oilskin procession dodging puddles. He also holds a grudge against grammar school administrators who didn’t close school in a blizzard. At the first drop of Sunday morning rain, this vengeance-deranged mind will chortle out the order for Indoor Auditorium. And then the fun begins.

It’s a pity everyone here doesn’t remember registration stampedes. If you enjoy Davidson relics like ROTC, stick around for the rain on commencement and watch the crunch on the second floor of Chambers. Great Aunts have been known to want in at graduations with more determination than you ever fought for a seminar years ago. Have you ever seen how South American fans file for the exits at the end of soccer matches?

Pero LAKE BAIN EVERY DAY, nothing so pleasant. Like Daylight Savings Time. Now you can sit by the window watching it rain for another hour every day. How else can you fight a flood but with a laugh and a dream of wacky commencements? I’ll spare you the melancholy mutterings this rain mostly invokes. I could go on for longer than...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

teachers and bureaucrats have been solidly "liberal," i.e., very much like the Judeo-Christian tradition. And we do a rather moderate, social democratic think. Now if the Davidson’s future is to be solidly capitalist political seed, then we must think. All of this is some of Professor Peckham’s article. I have oversimplified it, and have taken it out of the context of his argument. I recommend that you read the article to find out where I have cheated.

It is waterlogged tonight. If rains don’t end, can plumbers be far behind?

Davidson Reporter Watches Washington

A new column. So we now set about to christen it with a bottle of ink and give a cheer as we watch it set sail in an ocean of newsprint, for better or worse. This column exists circumstantially: If we were not in Washington, D.C. now, if we were not experiencing something different from those who are, presumably, reading this, then we would not now be in print. Be that as it may.

“I’m going to American University for a semester.”
“Oh, you mean ‘Jew U.’”

We feel like a couple of wandering WASPs here. Wilensky, take note. Can a campus student store have a larger variety and larger number of volumes than the campus library? That question can be seriously asked here at American University. In a P. Nicholl’s nightmare, the textbooks in the University Bookstore form an acre-maze, but, typically, the ones you need for the first week of classes will not be in until the middle of the term sometime. On this campus of 6,000 undergrads, there is a school library smaller than the one E.H. built. That is to say, the size of the physical plant of this library is smaller, not that it necessarily has fewer volumes than the Little Library. We do not know how many volumes it has because the hours are so limited we have not been inside yet. Who ever heard of a library closing at 9:30 p.m.? Of course, only a short seven-mile sprint away is the Library of Congress. Being without open stacks, it takes forty-five minutes minimum to order up any one particular book from its three hundred miles of shelves. Do not plan to get any studying done in this library unless you arrive there three hours before it closes.

One of our academic requirements is an internship doing volunteer work in an office on or around “the Hill,” otherwise known as the U.S. Capitol and associated Senate and House office buildings. Carlyle’s internship is with Congressman Bill Hefner of the 8th District of North Carolina from whom he rips off free cigarettes (actually provided by the tobacco lobby) and reams of stationery. When he is actually working, Carlyle does so under the office Legislative Assistant who is responsible for introducing legislation, answering some constituent mail, making policy statements, and deciding how to vote on an issue. Carlyle does research for the L.A. and is occasionally brought into discussions on legislative matters for his opinion. Typically, Carlyle will do the research on a question a constituent has raised in a letter, and then the L.A. will write the actual answer. Carlyle feels he must be doing something right because he has been asked to work an extra day this week. Office rumor has it that the real reason he has been asked to do overtime work is because he is the only one who knows how to run the office coffee machine.

After abandoning all hope of being able to do something honest in this town of tear-dimmed alabaster, I decided to try to break into the Washington Press Corps. To everyone’s chagrin, I succeeded. My internship application reads in part as follows: “Duties of Intern: General Assignment reporting, covering Capitol Hill, first as trainee, eventually on his own, for Pacifica Evening News in New York City, Los Angeles, Fresno, Berkeley, San Francisco, and Houston.” I’ve started an informal investigation to search out the clerical error that gave me this job. I’m sure Wood must have accidentally erased eighteen years of my past record.

The seminars we participate in, and which make up half of our work here, take place in a variety of offices with Congressmen, Senators, committee staff members, and political observers. The most consistently interesting people to talk to are Congressional staff members. This is because they are not caught up with the reelection furor the Congressmen have constantly in mind (some offices have actually held strategy sessions looking ahead to ’76), and because they deal with the daily practicalities of office operations. Whereas a Senator will “beg to differ with the Honorable and Distinguished Senator from North Carolina,” a Senatorial staff member has said, “Helms votes conservatively out of ignorance.”