Twelve The Davidsonian January 30, 1975

Abbott Takes Honors In Journalism Awards

By VAN WILLIAMSON
Asst. Features Editor

Professor of English Anthony S. Abbott received the 1974 North Carolina Press Association Award Jan. 16 for his weekly column,
"Penal Colony," printed in the Mecklenburg Gazette. Abbott co-authors "Penal Colony" with Vernon Rich, an inmate at Central Prison in
Raleigh. "Penal Colony" is a story of life behind prison walls, written by one who lives behind those walls, and
one who does not. In it, Abbott and Rich have attempted to educate their readers about the prison system. "Penal
Colony" became the first such circulated column in the nation. After Rich’s attempted escape and capture in the spring of
1974, they continued to write the column, with Rich giving his account of life in Central Prison in Raleigh, North
Carolina.

Abbott gives much of the credit for his award to Rich: "Vernon Rich and I began to write 'Penal Colony'
in November of 1973. We worked on it regularly, mostly at my house on weekends, through April of 1974, when
Vernon took an 'extended leave' and was picked up in Atlanta.

"While he was on escape and after he had been captured and returned to Central Prison in Raleigh, I wrote
several columns by myself.

"The three columns which were awarded the prize were written at this time. Later in the summer Vernon and I
resumed the writing of 'Penal Colony' and plan to continue it as long as there is material.

"I feel that the award of the North Carolina Press Association belongs as much to Vernon as it does to
me, and that both of us owe a considerable debt to Wister Jackson, the editor of the 'Gazette,' who has
gone out of his way (quite literally hundreds of miles on some occasions) to help us."

Abbott’s columns were chosen above fifty-one other entries in his division during the fiftieth annual Newspaper Institute at Chapel Hill,
North Carolina. This is the first such press award for the "Mecklenburg Gazette."

Judge Gerald L. Grotta, Associate Professor of Journalism at the University of Oklahoma, had great praise for Abbott’s work: "The
three columns submitted by Tony Abbott are outstanding. The topic—'Penal Colony'—is, I suspect, not a particularly easy one to write.

"However, Abbott has done a superb job of writing. He has 'humanized' the topic and in the process he has
told a moving story.

"I don’t recall ever reading anything that has conveyed to me the despair and the agony of prison life as
well as Abbott’s columns.

"After reading these three columns, I felt as if I knew 'Vernon' as a person. I also felt as though
I were sitting next to Abbott, listening to him tell the story with an emotion that seldom comes through in
the written word.

"I guess the highest compliment I can give is to say, 'I wish I had written that.'"

Jackson had these words of appreciation for Abbott’s work: "We would like to join Mr. Grotta and the North Carolina
Press Association in extending our praise for the work that Tony has done with our paper, as well as the
work and sacrifices he has made for prison reform in this state.

"So often we settle down in our private worlds and careers, never considering the plight that many of our fellow
beings are laboring under. But Tony took the time to care by serving as a community sponsor at Huntersville prison
and by helping a young man towards his writing career."

... YMCA (Continued from page 3)

other things with pre-high school youth from the community. Tucker and Yow hope to have more group activities for STEP
participants than in the past, to facilitate the exchange of ideas among STEP 'tutors.' Group activities this year have included
a pumpkin cutting party and a Christmas party.

"My kid introduced me to a lot of things that I otherwise wouldn’t have done here. I would say that
I’ve gotten more out of the program than the kid may realize now.

"It gives you an idea about what you might have been like when you were in the fifth or sixth
grade," Tucker said.

Cunningham hopes that more women students will sign up to work with the STEP program so that the YM/YWCA can
reach more elementary school students. Junior Gary Stewart is working on plans for a coffee house in the Depot where
junior high school students can meet. "Last year ITaught boxing at Ada Jenkins. High school kids from the community would
show up at the doors,” explained Stewart. The high school students had to be turned away. Stewart acquired a jukebox,
and the Senate gave the YM/YWCA enough money to buy a pool table for the coffee house. Stewart, working with
campus minister Rush Otey and others, is developing a schedule for the coffee house. It probably will open first in
the afternoons and later on will be open on weekend evenings. Stewart said that students from Davidson will be needed
to help staff the coffee house. He concluded, “It doesn’t take any special skill; all you have to do is
put in the time.”

North Carolina Governor James Holshouser congratulates Abbott.

Sexual Awareness Program

Human sexuality and sex values is a real possibility. Counselors with professional training in sex counseling should be considered for
the increased emphasis in general counseling. The clinical facilities of the college should be examined and their suitability to the
problems and concerns of sex should be evaluated by trained personnel in the field. Such a tri-faceted program (education, counseling,
and clinical) has been adopted by Princeton University with great success both in terms of student response and meeting student
needs. Their Sex Education Counseling and Health program serves as a model for a Davidson program.

In the educational realm, a formal course in Human Sexuality is needed to provide not only information but also the
opportunities for student discussion that will enable them to relate to their self-images. Such a course could be introduced at
Davidson as an extended studies offering for freshmen and sophomores, with the possibility of junior and senior extended studies work
in the major field. Offered as an interdisciplinary course, it would deal with the physiological, psychological, religious, and social aspects
of human sexuality, combining classroom and group discussion situations. A topical syllabus for such a course has been constructed. What
is now needed is cooperation among students, faculty, and administrators in structuring the course, developing guidelines for student participation and
evaluation, and reworking the syllabus to meet the demands of Davidson.

In the realm of counseling, the needs for active sex counseling must be met. This entails first, assuring ourselves that
such services are available, and second, publicizing the availability of such services. There is an alarming lack of knowledge on
the part of students as to the services available in this area. We need to bring our counselors into contact
with students by increased publicity, informal meetings, and visits to freshmen halls. No real steps have been taken in this
area, even though this is by far the easiest of the goals to realize. At the same time, the Psychological
Counseling Service needs to be included in the planning and implementation of this program.

The clinical area presents probably the greatest problem. The infirmary is doing an adequate job within its structural, spatial, and
policy limitations. But are these limitations realistic in view of the advent of coeducation and increased enrollment? Our health service
needs to be evaluated by the American College Health Association as to its suitability in providing for students’ medical and
sexual needs. Available services in the realm of sexuality (e.g., contraceptive and gynecological services) need expansion and greater publicity.

Recognizing the need and value of such a program, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has expressed his general agreement
with the proposed program, stating: “My response is favorable.” Terry, in summing up his feelings about the program, said, “The
major concern I have is that students and faculty will approach this matter seriously, as a legitimate function of a
college like Davidson which has always prided itself on being concerned with the whole person.” “Human sexuality is a major
part of personhood,” Terry emphasized. We must begin now in working to realize our goals. As we work toward the
implementation of a course and evaluation of our clinical facilities, two programs are realizable in the interim.

First, we can quickly strengthen our Psychological Counseling Service through increased publicity for staff members and the services they offer.
Second, the Resource-Referral service, discussed in the Jan. 9 Davidsonian, is needed to provide for students’ immediate needs. Information on
human sexuality (for example, contraceptive information) and information telling students where they can get help is easy to compile and
offer. It will take a concerted, cooperative effort over time by students, faculty, and administrators to realize these goals. Now
is the time to begin.
