the davidsonian
November 14, 1975 ——— 3

...Women confront aggressiveness

Q-9 (Continued from page 4)

When asked whether she thought women fear success, one woman answered, “I think women are afraid to compete with men and are therefore afraid of success.” On the other hand, many of the women interviewed like to compete with men. “It gives me a real charge to be able to compete on an equal ground.”

From the questionnaire, a reluctance to compete with men and even a fear of success does not seem to hold any importance in classroom discussion. Out of those polled, 63 percent said that they participate in class discussions frequently, 34 percent seldom, and 3 percent none.

Directly related to a reluctance to compete are the woman’s views about aggression. Of the Davidson women polled, most hold fairly open-minded attitudes. Sixty percent indicate that they are not offended by overly aggressive women and 66 percent said that they like themselves when they are aggressive. Nevertheless, a large number of girls still remain who express disapproval of aggressive tendencies in women. A great many of those polled indicate that they do not like aggressiveness in anyone, male or female.

Aggression, admittedly, cannot be directly correlated with the attainment of success. There are times, however, when the two are related. On the questionnaire, 52 percent of the women polled expressed fears that they might not achieve their career goals. Ken Wood, Director of Experiential Programs, has noticed this relation in his observance of the career goals of Davidson women. Last year he held group sessions for the graduating women in order to prepare them for their jobs. According to Wood, apparently they had to work through their fears before they would even begin to look for jobs. He attributes the fear to a general reluctance on women’s parts to be as aggressive as they can be and that most of them have difficulty in expressing their aggression because of societal norms.

Another fear that women have over the possibility of success is the fear that a successful career will somehow hinder a successful marriage. Ninety percent of the women polled plan to get married sometime in their lives. At the same time, most every woman polled indicated the desire to pursue a career. The most popular career goal is “undecided”: 59 girls are unsure of what they want to do. Many, however, have definite plans: 19 expressed interest in medicine, 14 in teaching, 13 in law, 8 in business, banking, or office work, 7 in research, 5 in counseling, 5 in some sort of creative work (including a poet in a dirty New York garret).

Can a woman combine a successful marriage with a successful career? This question can cause tension in many women. They fear success because they feel that the more they excel in their career, the harder it becomes for them to have a successful marriage. If children are involved, they realize that they will have to compromise a great deal because there is not enough time to devote one’s whole self to two equally demanding jobs. More women would rather compromise their careers than their marriage. Some women see the tension as irreconcilable. Some have already considered a compromise in the attempt to combine careers and marriage. They feel that there is time in life to achieve both a successful marriage and a successful career, but that the two should not be mixed. Specifically, these girls refer to the conflict between motherhood and career-woman rather than marriage and career-woman. Their solution allows them to pursue their career before they have children and after their children have grown, devoting the time in-between to be full-time mothers. Few men ever consider this compromise. It is not inconceivable to have a system in which the husband would take on as much responsibility in his role as father as the wife does in her role as mother.

Some women express no anxiety or even concern over whether or not they can achieve a fulfilling balance between a career and marriage. Many are truly confident that they will have no problems. Davidson Psychological Counselor Dr. Emelia Dockery says that women from the ages of 16 to 26 build up a fantasy world which includes high hopes for success. They are as determined in their career goals as their male peers. Many, however, become marriage-minded. Carried away with the new ideal of marriage, these women never consider that they might not have enough time to give themselves satisfactorily to both their career plans and their marriages. They rely on what Dr. Dockery calls the “power of denial.” They deny that any compromises might hinder in any way their fulfillment as persons. Soon, as their time is subdivided, they become subdivided. Said Erica Jong, “To have ten identities (wife, mother, mistress, cook, maid, chauffeur, tutor, governess, banker, poet?) is really to have none—or at least none you can believe in. You always feel fragmented. You always feel like a little girl. You always feel like a dilettante.” She finds it very difficult to give as much time as she wants to give to any one area of her life. Many feel they are being swallowed up by their duties as housewives, swallowed up by their husbands and children. Those who choose the career world become fearful of their own power, success, aggression, and loneliness. Nothing fits the plans that they had.made during their youths. Consequently, when a woman reaches the age of 40 or 50, she must face reality. Some fight back externally. They divorce their husbands, go back to school, and start all over trying to fulfill themselves. Others turn their disappointment and resulting hostility inward. In extreme cases, this repression can lead to actual physical diseases manifesting outwardly the anxiety within. Successful marriages can be combined with equally successful careers. Compromises will have to be made, especially if there are children involved, but they can be made by both the man and the woman. Actually, the more a woman is fulfilled, the more she will be able to give her husband and child. From all indications, there is no need for this fear to restrict any woman any more than it does a man from trying to pursue both interests.

There is tangible evidence that women, at least Davidson women, have become more independent, self-confident, and unafraid of success. From the questionnaire, only 6 percent feel inferior because of their sex. Eighty-one percent feel that they are not discriminated against because of their sex. Eighty-six percent are not afraid of men. Eighty-eight percent feel they are feminine. Fifty-eight percent held an office in their high schools. Ninety-five percent belonged to clubs and/or organizations in high school, and 87 percent were officers of those clubs. Seventy-one percent belong to a club and/or organization at Davidson. Sixty-three percent participate frequently in class discussions. Career plans, for the most part, are ambitious. Apparently, most girls are not afraid to pursue their interests, rise to positions of leadership, and compete with men.

These positive statistics, however, are accompanied by a very real danger. The main problem at Davidson is the unawareness that a problem even exists. As one woman put it, "No problem? They’re crazy as hell." She’s an exception. Part of the unawareness can be illustrated by the questionnaire. The Davidson woman is evidently confused over the definitions of femininity, yet 88 percent of those polled feel that they are feminine. Seventy-one percent are anticipating sexual discrimination in their career goals, yet 81 percent feel that they are not discriminated against because of their sex. In most discussions on any aspect of the women’s liberation movement, most women support the concept of equal pay for equal work but will go no further. The society by no means helps her. In most cases, there is very little encouragement for a woman who truly asserts herself.

There are many factors on the Davidson campus that reiterate social discrimination. This is primarily a male-run and dominated school. It reflects any other business in America. Taking into account that the school has been a co-educational institution for only three years, there is still a significant lack of women in higher administration positions. Although most of the Davidson women polled indicated that they would prefer to see the best-qualified people, regardless of sex, to fill these positions, 40 percent see the need for more women in these positions. Given Davidson as a model, one woman exclaimed, "My God, don’t women grow up to be successful, too?"

Women are blatantly discriminated against at Davidson when it comes to sports. Presently, the women have only one coach, significantly limiting the number of sports in which they can participate. The women’s basketball team was almost put on probation this year because of the lack of importance that the college seems to put upon it. The questionnaire points out that 56 percent of the women polled feel that men do not like aggressive women. There is rarely a serious discussion about any aspect of women’s liberation in mixed company that is not accompanied by a fair amount of laughter and joking. Most students refuse to recognize that there exists a problem anywhere, much less at Davidson.

Dean of Students Will H. Terry connects this unawareness to the fact that most Davidson women come from fairly protected environments where they have been encouraged to excel. If Davidson women feel any discrimination on the college campus, whether it be in the classroom or on the athletic fields, it is necessary to eliminate that feeling. To help with this, Assistant Dean of Students Mary Lou Dietler suggests that an investigative committee be formed in order to examine the problems of women on campus. Outside groups of men and women could organize to talk about the problems that women have to face, not only as students but after graduation as well. Fifty-two percent of the women polled are afraid that they will not reach their career goals. This is probably a major problem with the men on campus too. Dietler and Duff Bruce of the Admissions Office suggest both successful women and women on their way to success be brought to the campus to speak.

Argument, disagreement, and misunderstanding bordering on riot often follow any discussion of the role of women, what it means to be feminine, or how a female should conduct herself in American society. At Davidson, where women in the classroom are in an astounding minority and women in the administration are almost non-existent, a school that is in many respects still a college for men, the discussion of women’s roles is very important. It is important because before co-education can be called complete, women students have to feel that they belong. They must define their roles.