October 17, 1975

The Davidsonian

Ford proposes new graduated income tax

By BIFF KIRBY - Associate Editor

President Ford has given the ever-diminishing ranks of the GOP new cause for confusion. After a recent barrage of conservative rhetoric on the subject of ending redistributive federal “social programs,” Ford has offered a scheme for fiscal 1977 which has, in the opinion of this writer, a highly redistributive potential. Democratic opposition to this scheme should cloud the understanding of honest Republicans even further.

As reported in the news media, the Ford proposal reduces individual income tax rates, reduces corporation income tax rates by two percent, and makes permanent the ten percent investment tax credit (for business). According to the Charlotte Observer’s initial article on the Ford proposal, the new tax plan would cut the 1974 income tax liability of families with less than five thousand dollars’ annual income by sixty-one percent. The liability of families with less than ten thousand dollars’ annual income would be cut by thirty-five percent. Tax cuts in higher brackets would also be substantial—but less than sixty-one percent. In other words, the income tax rate schedule would become more progressive than it already is.

The other two elements in the Ford plan are by no means regressive in themselves. (Definitions: Personal income tax is “sometimes called equitable in that it bears ‘progressively’ more on those people with higher incomes. Payroll and sales taxes are relatively ‘regressive’ in that they take a larger fraction of the poor man’s income than they do of the rich man’s.”—Paul A. Samuelson, Economics, Chapter 7).

The institutionalizing of the ten percent investment tax credit is a continuation of last year’s policy and therefore nothing new. The reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 48 to 46 percent should cause a slowing down of the rate of inflation. The corporate tax is paid ultimately by consumers. Under the new plan, corporate costs of production will have declined at least by the amount of the federal tax decrease. Cost savings of this kind could and should be easily passed on to consumers, if there is any element of competition left in our economic system. Republicans believe this to be the case.

But Republican leaders also are generally against more government income redistribution. They are faced with the dilemma of advocating a redistributive tax policy in order to eliminate redistributive federal programs. Democratic congressmen add to the confusion by coming out every day against the plan. Didn’t the Democrats invent income redistribution?

It has been suggested by some cynics that the Ford tax plan has the odor of desperation in an election year. So be it. Such a plan is called for by public opinion, according to the President in his last press conference. This indicates that it is more essential to redistribute income than to do anything else. The Republican party has adopted this attitude finally in its bid for national respectability. Shouldn’t Republican leaders have the grace to admit the fact? Why is it better to redistribute by collecting taxes than to redistribute by spending them for social programs? From Gerald Ford to Jim Martin, all Republican politicians should answer that question.

Letters

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night will ordinarily be printed that week.

To the Editor:

As a member of the Davidson College football team I speak only for myself; however, I feel my views are largely shared by the rest of the squad as well as by members of the basketball team. I write in response to the ridiculous and unfounded claims of Don Benson in the October 10 issue of The Davidsonian. First of all, let me say that I detectNo sense of desperation is seeping into the football and basketball programs. Much to the contrary, I feel the efforts now being made by the football and basketball coaching staffs, as well as by the entire athletic department, are positive and necessary steps towards establishing sound winning programs. Benson’s statement that “criticism for both programs revolves around mishandling people, not bending to the individual” is totally untrue. To my knowledge, nobody on the football team has expressed that he has been mishandled in any way. Neither do I know of any player who feels that the coaches have become indifferent towards his individual needs.

Benson’s contention that “It seems harder for our athletes under these programs to be an integral part of student life” is equally absurd. I fail to see how a two-hour study hall or a training table for one term removes a player from the mainstream of campus life. (Incidentally, the training table is not mandatory, and some of the players chose to continue meals at their respective eating houses).

As far as I can tell, Davidson athletes are not nearly as out of touch with campus life as the library rats who feverishly work their lives away in pursuit of the almighty 4.0. I think Benson misinterprets the appearance of football coaches on freshmen halls “checking on curfews and study habits.” First of all, the football team has no curfews. I would like to know how Benson discovered that we do. Secondly, my understanding of the “checking on study habits” practice is that it is designed to help the young players deal with academic problems, not to enforce study. And I think it is reasonable to assume that a first-term freshman with nearly forty hours of football a week might encounter problems. As for the implication that the school is not totally honest in its admissions policy towards athletes, I call bull.

Can you name a Davidson football or basketball player in the past four years who has been forced to leave because he could not make it academically? I cannot, and I have known a lot of players in the four years I have been here. I also personally know that there are several upperclassmen football players who rank in the top 25 percent of their class and that there are a number of prospective doctors, dentists, and lawyers on both football and basketball teams. I think we jocks hold our own in the classroom. Benson’s implication that Davidson athletes are “so undisciplined that they cannot be offered the choices and dilemmas necessary to the growth of the individual” particularly irks me. I am not sure Benson knows what “real discipline” is. Maybe he should try the schedule of a football player for one week. I think his mind would be changed. The efforts being made by the coaching staffs in both sports are genuine and constructive moves toward establishing winning teams. I can say with assurance that every member of the football team believes in the things the coaches are doing and feels that they will pay off in the end. We just wish that students like Benson would believe also.

Bill Winkenwerder '76
Davidson College

To the Editor:

No offense to the author of last week’s article on Assistant Dean Mary Lou Dietler, but I disliked the lead: “All it takes is a splashy yellow dress and long strawberry blonde hair worn by a tall, attractive woman for one to realize that they aren’t on Will Terry’s side of the dean's offices.” Sure, Ms. Dietler is good-looking, but would it make sense to say “all it takes is a splashy T-shirt, desert boots, and a mature hair trim worn by a short funny-looking man for one to realize that he/she isn’t on Mary Lou Dietler’s side of the deans’ offices”?

Margaret Hunter
Davidson College, ’78