Senate Report Psychologist Reviews Counseling Term (Photo by Mike Snead) Meredith Hall Che Vol. LXIV, No. Sixteen Faculty To Consider
By MARK GERGEN Staff Writer

Campus Clinical Psychologist Meredith Hall reported to the SGA Senate on the status of his counseling at Davidson at the
Tuesday meeting. Reports were also heard from Karl Goodhouse, Bo Hunter, Rick Roylance, and Martin Eakes. Hall is required to
report to the Senate every term as part of his contract to provide counseling services funded by the SGA Senate.
“The emphasis in the SGA program is to improve the quality of relationships at Davidson, something that appears to be
lacking otherwise,” said Hall. Hall contrasted his views on his role as counselor with the views of the administration. Hall
indicated that the administration tended to see his role as counseling students with drastic problems, while he felt that...

Night Exam Plan After EPC Rejection

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) proposal for implementation of night exams in the self-scheduled exam period was rejected by a
vote of 3-2 Monday. The committee then voted unanimously to take the proposal before the faculty without recommendation. A student
will be allowed to present the proposal.

Vice President for Academic Affairs and EPC Chairman John M. Bevan indicated his lack of favor for the proposal. He
said that the eight exam periods now scheduled were sufficient without the addition of two evening periods. The proposal calls
for two exam periods to run from 7 to 10 p.m. on the first two days of the examination period.

Class of ’76 Student Government Association Senator Martin Eakes expressed his disappointment with the EPC vote. “The whole goal of
self-scheduled exams lies in making the scheduling of exams as flexible as possible for students. I think night exam periods
provide a significant increase in flexibility,” Eakes said.

Bevan suggested that a three-day exam period with two night exam periods, one each of the first two nights, would
be an acceptable proposal to him. “That’s not the issue,” Eakes responded. “What’s magic about the number eight? If you
have the people to administer the exams, there’s no problem,” Eakes said.

Bevan’s proposal provides for eight exam periods, either two periods during each of four days or a three-day exam week
with two night exam periods. Eakes felt that such a proposal would not be acceptable to the student body. “We
asked specifically about that alternative in a student referendum last year, and 80 percent of those responding voted against that
proposal. Students have made their position perfectly clear on that,” Eakes maintained.

A proposal for night exams was defeated by the faculty last fall, and the same proposal was tabled by the
EPC last spring. Mrs. Donald L. Kimmel Jr., administrator of the exam distribution center, favors a trial night exam period.
“Besides receiving the approval of Mrs. Kimmel, we have already secured a sufficient number of student volunteers to help with
exam distribution. With such support I see no reason why we should not institute night exams,” remarked EPC student representative
John Taylor (’76).

Faculty representatives on the EPC expressed several dissatisfactions with the night exam proposal. “Students have ample time to write their
exams under the existing system. I don’t think most students even have three exams to take, so why should we
add on additional examination periods at night?” asked one EPC faculty representative. “The faculty has bent over backwards to help
students. If night exams are instituted, faculty members will feel obligated to remain in their offices from 7 to 10
p.m. to answer student questions concerning the exams. I don’t really believe students would take advantage of the night exams.
The statistics show that those who take two exams in one day usually do so on the last day of
the examination period,” said another faculty member.

In an SGA campus poll conducted last year, 92 percent of the student body voted in favor of instituting the
option of night exams. A similar percentage of the student body expressed the desire to sustain a four-day examination period.Here
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Students should be seen before a problem reaches a drastic status. © Hall later mentioned that an entire hall from
a freshman dormitory had consulted him on the quality of life at Davidson. "I think it’s pretty impressive that a
whole floor approached me in a commonly held view that these people’s personal and social lives were pretty rotten," Hall
said. "People are more demanding about every aspect of their lives now. They want to be able to come here
and feel that they’re growing as people. They are expecting more, and many feel they’re not getting it. This is
pretty consistent with a number of people I’ve talked with at Davidson. Many feel a loss of confidence in that
they don’t feel that they’re developing anything socially at Davidson."

In a purely statistical sense, Hall has seen 138 different people so far this year. He indicated that the majority
of people see him from one to three times, while some have been in as many as 14 times. Karl
Goodhouse reported on other developments on counseling at Davidson.

On February 6, 1975, "In the area of human sexuality there is a course in the planning stages." Goodhouse added
that Dr. Amelia Dockery has been overloaded in her duties as psychologist so far this year, while Dr. W. Gateman
Workman has seen only seven people this term. Dockery and Workman are employed by the college administration as is Hall
for the equivalent of one day of counseling each week. Hall works one additional day funded by the Senate.

Bo Hunter reported on the Budget, Buildings, and Grounds Committee meeting. It was announced that extra expenses will be met
next year by increasing tuition $300 and dorm fees $50. "Expenses are being cut by eliminating the public lectures program
and by cutting international education to a budget of $8000," said Hunter. Hunter added that other minor cuts were also
being made. Dick Gregory was brought to campus to speak from public lecture funds last year. William F. Buckley Jr.
was a Reynolds lecturer.

Senator Rick Roylance reported on actions by the Buildings and Grounds Committee. Roylance stated that Chambers will not be locked,
a pay telephone will be installed in the lobby of Johnston Gymnasium, and that landscaping is being taken care of
between Duke and the library. "From now on, the library is going to be padlocked so that the only way
to get out if you are locked in after hours is to set off an alarm at an emergency door,"
Roylance said.

Senator Martin Eakes reported on the status of night exams. "The Educational Policy Committee decided not to approve night exams.
They added that we could take it to the faculty unapproved, but it would probably get shot down pretty badly,"
said Eakes.

In other actions, the Senate heard a report stating that the Centrex system would be unfeasible for the college due
to cost. Susan Reid reported on actions in the Athletic Committee. Tenley Shewmake and Carol Watkins presented a resolution on
security measures at Watts which was tabled as being too substantial an issue to discuss at midnight. Students with opinions
on the issue of security in Watts and on the campus in general were asked to come to the next
Senate meeting.

Counselors for '75-'76

The following members of the rising junior class were selected Monday as Freshman Counselors for the 75-76 school year:

Counselors:
Gary Barnes
Bo Baskin
Richard Boyce
Bob Earnest
Karl Goodhouse
Bob Grizzard
Lee Grogan
Steve Holman
Steve Keener
Peyton Marshall
John McArthur
Marc Menchel
Coty Pinkney
Mark Rabil
Tim Sellars
John Swanson
Bob Whitaker
David Yearwood

Alternates:
Alan Alig
Bill Kelly
Andy McElwee
Mark Scandling
Tony Snow

EPC Chairman: John M. Bevan
Counselors: Carol Connors, Sally Doyle, Laurie Dunn, Sue McAvoy, Katherine Morton, Susan Murdaugh, Ruth Murphy, Van Williamson
Alternates: Ashley Avent, Renee Hester, Staley Jordon

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
