January 9, 1975 The Davidsonian

Three Tree Trimming Ceremony (Photo by Venable)

By Andrea Murphy
Staff Writer

Sophomores Brandon Rankin, Sikes McCord, and Kevin Shelley encountered a head-on collision while returning to school along Highway 21 the
Wednesday before Christmas break. Rankin was driving his Volkswagen north on Highway 21 when his car and that of Evelyn
Raymer collided just north of the North Mecklenburg fairgrounds. State Highway Patrolman J.M. White reported Ms. Raymer was apparently trying
to overtake southbound traffic and was in the left lane when the accident occurred.

Rankin spent one night in the hospital while he received 25 stitches under his chin and while his chipped ankle
bone, broken nose, and a hairline fracture in his jaw were attended to, according to Dean of Students Will H.
Terry. Shelley was forced to spend Christmas in the hospital but was released the day after and is home now.
He expects to return to school in approximately a week. Right now Shelley is having some difficulties walking as he
recuperates from a broken vertebral process in his lower back, a hairline fracture in his hip, and the 20 stitches
he has in his leg.

Ghost Of Mishap Past Haunts Trio Injured In Car Accident

The injuries suffered by McCord and Raymer were of a more serious nature. McCord has remained at Memorial Hospital since
the accident and is waiting to undergo surgery on his leg. His leg was broken twice in the thigh bone.
His operation will be scheduled as soon as his crushed sternum has healed sufficiently for his doctor to operate without
risking complications. He hopes to return to school for the spring term but expects to be out of school for
the remainder of the winter. Raymer has been in serious condition and is expected to have an extended hospital stay
as a result of her injuries.

Art Arena Sought In Banquet Hall

(Continued from page 1)

Bodini added that the Davidson permanent collection and the Davidson National, the largest print and drawing contest in the United
States, would serve as attractions for federal funding. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. plans no immediate action for the
remodeling of the banquet hall. “I think it’s a possibility, but I’m not committed to it,” Spencer said. Vice President
for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan expressed support for a gallery at Davidson, feeling it would be beneficial to the
college “not only from an educational, but also a public relations point of view.”

“Chambers Banquet Hall could be made into a better display area than anything else we have now,” said Bevan. “I
would put $20,000 into it and have as nice a gallery as most any college anywhere,” he said.

Several Davidson alumni feel that there would be much support from the alumni for the college to undertake the remodeling
of the banquet hall as a museum. “I would think that the alumni would be very responsive to such a
move, both toward giving funds or works of art to Davidson for a museum program,” said Wyrick. “Many Davidson alumni,
if not collectors themselves, are associated with businesses or organizations which have interests in fine arts; and they would probably
be willing to contribute to Davidson,” Wyrick maintained. “I have a small collection myself, and I would certainly be disposed
to make a contribution if I knew that Davidson had a proper place for its display,” Wyrick added.

Another Davidson alumnus, Dr. Robert Henry Moore of the Class of ’62, has also expressed interest in contributing art to
Davidson. Moore wrote Jackson in April of 1972 about making a contribution to Davidson but did not pursue making the
donation to Davidson after Jackson replied that there was no display space available for such a contribution. “I’m still very
much interested in making a donation of a part of my collection to Davidson,” Moore said Sunday. “I'd like to
say that my interest in fine arts at Davidson is very strong. However, I’m reluctant to make a contribution to
Davidson if there is not a reasonable chance for it being displayed properly. Not only I, but other collectors, would
naturally be reluctant to donate work if it were just going to be stored where no one could see it
except an occasional art class or if it were only going to be displayed infrequently.”

Members of the Davidson Art department expressed feelings that a gallery/museum would tremendously enhance the fine arts educational program at
Davidson. “A museum would give us an opportunity to take students to the works of art themselves without leaving the
Davidson campus for New York or Europe. We would be exposing the students to the actual work of art rather
than to slides or inferior book illustrations,” said Ligo. “The potential for excitement for art is innately enhanced by a
museum. I see much more excitement emerge from students when they have a chance to look at the original works,
such as our Hogarth engravings. Examining firsthand the technical skill and the communication of the original work simply can’t be
matched by a slide or book illustration,” Ligo asserted.

Wyrick expressed his conviction that he would have benefited considerably as a student at Davidson from the kind of fine
arts program that could be developed with a campus museum. “I feel that my own professional development would have been
enhanced by at least a couple of years if I had been exposed to this kind of program as a
Davidson student. And we can all use a couple...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of years.” “We could also bring in traveling collections of first-rate artists, both the modern and the masters, with such
a museum,” Ligo said. Such shows cannot be presently brought to Davidson due to the nature of the security system
in Cunningham Fine Arts Building, lack of storage space, and lack of display space, according to Jackson. “Stowe galleries are
effectively closed for three months out of the year,” Jackson added. Cartons for the more than 3,000 entries to the
Davidson National fill one of the rooms in Stowe from floor to ceiling, wall to wall, while the entries themselves
fill the entirety of the other room in Stowe. Jackson maintains that only a small exhibition of prints and drawings
can be brought to Davidson for the monthly traveling shows as Cunningham offers no storage for crates in which paintings
or sculptures would be shipped. Bringing in monthly shows also eliminates all available exhibition space for the Davidson permanent collection.
“Our commitment has been to changing shows rather than to display a portion of the Davidson collection,” said Jackson. Ligo
added that only one quarter or less of the Davidson permanent collection was displayed in the Davidson Collects exhibition held
in Stowe in late October and early November of last year. “One quarter of our collection fills all of our
available wall space,” Ligo said. Jackson remains skeptical of the validity of running the present exhibition program out of the
mainstream of Davidson traffic, in Stowe galleries. “There’s a real question as to whether the effort and the money that
we're putting into an exhibition program that no one comes to see is worth it. It’s like running fine films
for two people,” said Jackson. He also indicated that the limitations of the present gallery in Cunningham Fine Arts Center
cast doubt as to the possibility of continuing the largest print and painting contest in the United States, the Davidson
National.

Jackson Seeks Art Gallery. (Continued from page 1) community goes almost every day, is that it’s between the lecture center
and the research center. It’s complimentary in that context of bringing the picture to the word.” Increased security is an
important consideration for establishing a gallery in Chambers Banquet Hall, Jackson indicated. “We're living on borrowed time. We need a
facility that makes security a reality,” Jackson said. “One person could hold down the whole gallery,” Jackson maintained. “That person
could watch over the collection, sell our catalogue, and answer questions visitors might have about the show. “I think it
could work just like the library with work-study students putting in scheduled hours. And I think students would enjoy the
job; it would be a great work-study position.” One of the primary advantages of Chambers Banquet Hall is the availability
of storage space. “The real beauty of it is that storage space was there before anyone knew it existed. There
are rooms back behind the banquet hall which could be used for storing parts of the permanent collection as well
as crates for paintings of a changing show, and one for a Davidson National office,” said Jackson. There is no
storage space at present in Stowe Galleries. Although the prints and drawings in the Davidson permanent collection are stored in
drawers of a cabinet, there is no available space for storage of paintings and sculptures. “We would be absolutely up
the creek if someone gave us paintings right now. You can’t put those in drawers,” said Jackson. “Everybody can’t own
or won’t own fine art, but in a readily available collection, it’s owned by everyone.” “A community such as this
does not know what it is to have a visual life. Through a museum in Chambers Banquet Hall, art would
come into people’s lives through the back door, which is usually the only way art comes into people’s lives. “And
I think it would be perfectly grand to continue to have Thursday morning coffee and cokes right there. Just imagine
how much better it would be to talk in a gallery rather than in a room of blank walls. “In
a wider sense, we would in a way be a regional museum so that people in the area would be
able to use it. They would know that at any given time, there would be an exhibition worth seeing on
display. At a time when college President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. is concerned about Davidson not being prominent in the
thoughts of people in Charlotte and surrounding areas, Jackson is concerned about Davidson thwarting people’s interest in art. “We have
turned off all interest in art in people from Charlotte. We have often had visitors who couldn’t get in to
see the shows we have,” Jackson said. “There are plenty of people interested in art, but they simply have no
sort of entree to Davidson. A gallery would be invaluable to Davidson in the way of P.R. for people visiting
the campus.” “There is money out there that will only be attracted to Davidson by the arts. People who have
art collections are generally affluent. That’s just a fact. “Obviously individuals are going to give their art to someone. Anyone
who is a friend of Davidson could then consider giving their art to us. All we want to do is
to provide them the opportunity. Right now we aren’t. We obviously don’t have a place where any art gifts could
be properly displayed. “We are getting to be known now as an art power to some extent, so the emperor
has got to put on some clothes,” Jackson said.
