April 3, 1975 — The Davidsonian Eleven — Pete Goodman

"Round the Turn Sailors enjoy Duke meet despite officials, foes"

By ANDREW LAMAS
Executive Editor

“It was ironic that in this regatta, when we intended to let some new people sail, get some experience and have some fun, we sailed the best we have all year,” said Team Captain Dave Francis. The Davidson sailing team placed sixth among nine teams on Kerr Lake at Duke University on March 29.

“Our final standing wasn’t really indicative of how well we sailed,” remarked Francis. B-Division skipper Chuck Barrineau sailed well but made some costly mistakes during his second and fourth races. “I accidentally dove out of the boat and it turned over. I was in good position before I fell in though,” said Barrineau. Barrineau’s craft capsized again, yet he finished in fourth place in two of the four races in which he participated.

“One of my best races was thrown out due to the ineptitude of the race committee. It was the most poorly managed regatta I’ve ever been in,” commented Barrineau. Hunter Jennings, Stuart Campbell, and Gil Cuthbertson also sailed for the Wildcats.

“Hunter Jennings, who sailed three races in A-Division, started out awful tight but loosened up later and gained a strong fourth place,” stated Francis. Francis made his best showing of the year during the regatta. “I moved the boat well, my starts were well-timed and if I hadn’t been fouled at the starting line in both races, I might well have won them both,” predicted Francis.

This weekend, April 5, the Davidson sailing team will travel to the University of Virginia’s Lake Monticello for conference eliminations. “We need to place third or better in order to make the conference championships on April 19,” remarked Francis. “And I’ll try to stay in the boat this weekend,” said Barrineau.

IM 4C with Frank Stiefel

IMAC softball: total farce or the metaphor of life?

As you probably have already deduced by reading the by-line, the infamous C.A. and Y.B. are no longer writing the IMAC column. After three years of diligent reporting and perverse commentating, the duo has quit for reasons that directly relate to “indifference on the part of the Davidsonian.” However, one cannot help but feel that a senior slump combined with the coming of spring played a heavy part in their decision.

Anyway, being new at this writing of this column, I was unable to get my hands on last week’s scores. Where the hell do you hide those damn cards, Bowie? Volleyball has also started, and hopefully those scores will also be brought to you in the next issue.

There are many good teams in IMAC softball this season, but none seem destined to take it all in a cakewalk. The team that will have to be reckoned with is IFT. They possess the premier long-shot man, Sid Witz. Watching Witz really paste one is an awesome sight. No matter how far back you play your left fielder, Larry somehow thinks he can knock it over his head. Against a team that has already been burned by one of Sid’s blasts, he usually ends up with a 350-foot fly-out, but there is always some freshman who cannot believe Witz can knock it out. Have fun running it down, pal.

One of the most unusual aspects of the softball season is the field set-up. For some reason, this school feels that what’s good for flickerball is good for softball. Fields 2 and 3 are a left-handed batter’s paradise. All you have to do is pull the ball, and hit it 80 feet in the air and you’ve got a single.

Rumor has it...

Mitchem Opticians
Fast & Accurate Service
Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician
206 N. Main Ph. 663-3942
MooresvilleePrescriptions Filled eGlasses Repaired eGlasses Adjusted eSunglasses

Is it that the SPE’s learned how to switch hit over the winter just to take advantage of this? Typical. There is nothing worse than some worm launching one into the woods. Not only does he get on base, but you’ve got to forage through the jungle looking for the ball. Inevitably, you either lose a sneaker in some rancid puddle or else almost lose a leg because of a man-eating thorn bush. Ah, the life of an IMAC right fielder is no joy.

Field 5, though it has a good outfield, has one of the most dangerous infields anywhere. Located on the practice football field, the ruts developed by years of dedicated practice by our Wildcats cause a softball to do strange things. All too often some unsuspecting shortstop has bent down to field a grounder, only to end up catching it with his mouth. After that, he doesn’t want to go near anything on the ground, and the field day is on.

By far and away, the thing that makes softball so much fun is just getting out in that warm weather after a winter of the Carolina monsoons and relaxing. Four o’clock brings a mass exodus from the labs and library to the fields. Everybody at some time in their life has played baseball, and although the body isn’t in as prime shape as in the old days, the thoughts of grandeur are as big as ever.

The players’ outlook towards the game varies greatly. On one hand, you have the guys who never really were very good, but think they’re great. Their basic strategy is to grind on everybody’s nerves. Every play is cause for arguing.

CHOICE WINES AND BEERS + PIZZA + TAKE OUT SERVICE

For some reason, they expect IMAC umps to call a game like the pros. They’ll even go so far as to argue calls on pitches. There is nothing more ridiculous than to see some bozo trying to get a base on balls. Get on base at all costs, even at loss of face.

Then, there are the prima donnas. These guys know they are so good that they just lay back because there is no way these clowns are going to beat them. However, after about six singles in the woods and some classic bad bounce base hits, they realize all their major league attitude is going to get them is a clean uniform.

Finally, there are those who play the game for what it is, an hour break from the insanity that this college so easily breeds. They come staggering out of their room to the fields with the remains of a six-pack, or in the case of the more religious derelicts, a case or two. What goes on after that is pure ecstasy. Guys play hard and talk three times the bull that they’d been selling in their afternoon seminar. These players realize the fine points of the game, like giving the umps a beer or two so that a close call might go their way. These are the type of guys who, if their pitcher gets two strikes on a batter, yell so much that they actually have the hapless foe scared of whiffing. Nothing is worse than striking out in slow pitch softball.

After the game ends, it is usually rehashed over dinner, with the losers vowing to get it together next game.

PIZZA + LASAGNE + RAVIOLI VEAL SCALLOPINE CHICKEN CACCIATORE VEAL PARMIGIANA

375-1449 138 W. MOREHEAD GAY 90S ATMOSPHERE 596-0256 HWY 49 UNIVERSITY CITY

HATTIE’S Subs--Pizzas--Cold & Hot Sandwiches Imported Beers--Cold Draught HAPPY HOUR — 7-9 Tues. - Fri. Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7-9:30