March 20, 1975

She Davidsonias

Eleven Heroes Emerge in All Wienie Team

Selected by the aforementioned, this team consists of those b-ball stars who have reached the heights of the dog and mustard scene with their unnecessary public displays of relish and onions on their ever-present buns.

Leading off this year’s first team is the man who is often heralded as the most sought-after head case: center Louisville’s Wesley Cox. No one knows what or why Wesley is going to do, but you can be sure you won’t understand it. Wesley goes down to the end of the bench after asking to be taken out and pretends he is persecuted by thousands. Yes, Mr. head case, you are the All Wienie center.

The forward spots are nailed down quite securely by two young corner gunners, Soph Adrian Dantley of Notre Dame and freshman hot dog Steve Sheppard of Maryland. Dantley, the most protected player in America, holds a degree in theatre arts from Tersville Junior College. He has two years ahead of him and will continue to be encased in a bun, if he doesn’t overdo his act on the court and die. Oh, by the way, he sure looks Catholic doesn’t he; Irish too?

Sheppard is going to be a great one. He has all the moves, but his pièce de résistance is the clenched fist after each time he scores. This happens only once or twice a game so we suggest he broaden this gesture to each time he shoots so the fans can get sick to their stomachs more often.

The guard spots are tight for the first four guards, but frosh Jackie Gillon of S. Carolina and Phil “four corners” Ford of N.C. are the first team selections. Gillon is a turkey who was “designated John Roche” for S.C. but he couldn’t fill those big buns this early in the year. He will only get better, cause he is whole meat without a doubt. Gov’t. inspected.

Ford is Dean Smith’s prodigy...what else can we say? He has a great tradition of UNC dogs to follow with your Georgie Karls, Steve Previs, and Darrell Elston, but he performed admirably all year long. He is a weinie’s weinie, ca va?

Freshweinies certainly dominate the first squad but the honorable mention squad is loaded with vets. The exception is that fine hot dog from Raleigh, Kenny Carr. Kenny is the only person in the world who thinks Kenny Carr is better than David Thompson. This strange belief undoubtedly led to the Wolfpack’s early exit from NCAA competition.

We have two seniors as our honorable mention wienie centers. First, that UNC mustard man, Ed Stahl. Ed specializes in steel burgers and cheerleading. His only flaw is his inability to master the “Newland Stomp” during warmups. Besides that, C.A. is still mad at Easy Ed for being named the 1971 Ohio High School Player of the Year instead of C.A.

Tessor Leonard? You all know it, Furman knows it, anyone who’s seen him knows it, Tessor doesn’t know it though. Yes sports fans, Tessor is all dumb-MUP.

Our honorable mention forwards are two well-known personages. David Myers, who is not only all ugly and all zit, but he is probably the ugliest player to participate in the NCAA since Al Taber.You tender frosh; Al was UGLY. Sorry Dave, but it is as it was written, right evil Abbo? The other forward is Stan Bakovitch of West Virginia, but our scouting reports only say “who?” so we named him to our All Who Team. Great job, ah, er...Stan. We have four guards at the mustard an’ ketchup leftover.

While enjoying the 4th ANNUAL Davidson College National Print & Drawing Competition Sun., March 16 - Fri. April 18, plan also to come by our complete picture framing shop.
- Professional Picture Framing Service
- Wide Selection of Mats
- Modern Frames in Woods & Metal as well as Traditional & Rustic spots.

Pete Turgovich is the most heralded flop since Andre McCarter, but that’s another starter. Yes, UCLA’s guards are human, but so what? They will still win it all. Lloyd Walton of Marquette is honorable mention because of his ability to shoot instead of getting the ball to Bo Ellis. He is street ball all the way. Brad Hoffman and Monte Towe are our two Bob Quincy memorial all weenie seniors. Monte lives on past reputation.

You're cordially invited to visit The Village Store. “Brings you a world of gifts" - DAVIDSON, N.C.

Good Pay
- SKILL OF YOUR CHOICE
- New Opportunities
- Career Training
- Regular Promotions
- Men and Women Eligible

EARN $45 FOR ONE WEEKEND PER MONTH, AND TRAIN FOR A REWARDING CAREER IN THE TECHNICAL FIELD.

FOR INFORMATION (No Obligation) CLIP AND MAIL TO:
ARMY RESERVE OPPORTUNITIES, 4001 WEST DEVON AVE. RM. 106, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60646

STOP LOOKING for a good part-time job!! GETTING INVOLVED BECAUSE AMERICA NEEDS US.

NAME:
ADDRESS:
CITY:
STATE:
ZIP:
PHONE:

IT PAYS TO GO TO MEETINGS.

And a guy named D.T. But, this is just a kind gesture to a man who is a shadow of what he once was. (That ain’t much, folks.) Brad Hoffman just didn’t tender. Bobby supposedly believes that Vince Lombardi was a “faggot and a loser” and that his teams were poor because Lombardi wasn’t tough enough. I almost forgot, Bobby’s accomplishments include “Head Psycho 1970”; “Most Demented Team Ever, Army 1968” and a written invitation to return to the funny farm anytime he wants.

Now the big question, who is the All Wienie coach? Who cares? No, really, almost all college coaches are either frustrated jocks, egomaniacs, or just emotionally crippled. Picking the head wienie out of all that material is very difficult. Among the nominees are Furman’s banana man Joe Williams, Norm Sloan, and his canary-voiced wife. Bobby Knight, all spastic, is a top contender. The winner, though, is that pleasant man from Anderson, S.C., Tates Locke. Tates is also on the all outlaw and all cheater squad. Rumor has it that Clemson will be put on probation forever for their illegal recruiting. Couldn’t happen to a nicer bunch of guys. Tates also treats chairs sweetly.

Well th-th-th-that’s all folks.

Definition: Cotton picker - a person who has misplaced her tampon string. The Pits.

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans. Only 6 miles north of Holiday Gee Rink Ridge Avenue, Concord, N.C. PHONE 782-9028. Call 7-10 P.M. to ENROLL.