The Student Life and Health

The Babcock wing will house a new infirmary.

Trustees approve infirmary change

A committee of the Davidson College Board of Trustees approved a proposal for the renovation of Preyer Infirmary and a
new health-care program for students. The proposal, drafted by Dean of Students Will H. Terry and based on the McFarland
report, calls for $200,000 in capital improvements to the existing structure plus an entirely new staff to operate the new
center.

According to Terry, the college will hire one physician full-time and supplement his services with several paramedical people and four
nurses. “We're still not changing our basic philosophy of running the infirmary,” Terry added. “We’re not trying to be a
large hospital providing adequate medical treatment for our students; we want to provide first aid and basic emergency treatment.”

The present building will be expanded to include a Babcock wing in back and will be generally modernized throughout. A
new telephone switchboard to handle emergency and routine calls, a new kitchen where hot food can be prepared, a television
ward with a video-beam projector and screen, and a magazine rack are planned for the renovated building, according to Director
of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr.

The modernized infirmary will also include a modern X-ray machine, a pharmacy, a laboratory, and a small operations center with
an adjoining glass-paneled observation-lecture room. “The observation room is my idea,” said Meetze. “The large glass windows will allow the
paramedical people to look down on the operating table procedures so they can operate better during emergencies when the doctor
can’t be there.”

The paramedical people will be provided by the Bowman-Grey Medical School Extension Program. Davidson pre-meds who have been accepted for
early admission at Bowman-Grey will be eligible for the intern program. “Only those students who have scored above 400 on
the MedCATS and have completed Biology 31 or have permission of the instructor are thus eligible,” said Pre-med Advisor and
Professor of Chemistry James M. Fredericksen.

Infirmary ills to be remedied: Trustee committee moves to renovate Preyer Infirmary and add paramedicals.
-Pete Goodman

The Davidsonian
Vol. LXVII, No. FIVE
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
October 24, 1975

Making a pint: Davidson students get shot in the arm

Students re-register Friday

Computer fouls course registration

By BILL EDWARDS
Staff Writer

A computer malfunction late Wednesday night destroyed over ninety percent of the student winter quarter course registration cards, according to
Data Processing Service Manager Kenneth Carmack. “Something went haywire in the master disc of the NCR Century 101 about 1
AM Thursday. Apparently, a slipped disc caused the computer to punch extraneous data at random on the cards before the
machine processed the first choice loop.”

According to Registrar Richard C. Burts, students will have all day Friday, October 24 to re-register for winter term. Only
students with alpha numbers less than 1,097,245 will have to re-register. All students re-registering will have to pay the $10
late registration fee. The fee will help cover the cost of extra registration forms, computer time, and additional staff.

Blood drive donors exceed Davidson donation quotas

By BOB CORLEW
Staff Writer

The Davidson Red Cross Blood Drive collected a record 419 pints of blood Thursday with the largest number of contributors
ever, according to Captain William L.DeVaughan. “I’m just overwhelmed by the response this year,” said DeVaughan. “This is the best
turn-out in terms of people donating and pints collected in 25 years.” According to the Red Cross, 426 pints were
collected at Davidson in 1950, soon after the outbreak of the Korean War. This year, more than 248 members of
the college community offered to donate, but 29 were rejected for various reasons, leaving a record total of 219 donors.

“Students really came through for us in the squeeze during those last hours of the drive,” said DeVaughan. “Several brought
their books with them and studied for reviews while they were donating. Unfortunately, some got so tied up in their
studies that they forgot to call the attendant after giving the first pint. A few students have reported adverse side-effects
this year after donating blood.”

Preyer Infirmary Nurse Dorothy D. Sherrill, R.N., reported a slight increase in traffic among students Friday and early this week.
Sherrill noted that some 40 students were now occupying beds in a Charlotte Hospital after an outbreak of “mild depression,
fatigue, and lack of concentration.” She requested students exhibiting any of these symptoms to contact the infirmary immediately. “This sounds
a bit suspicious, and we don’t want to take any chances. That kind of thing usually doesn’t happen unless the
needles were dirty,” said Sherrill.

Several other students have been confined to the infirmary. “A few have begun to look a little jaundiced, have developed
some yellow liquid eyes, and have had difficulties in moving their jaws,” said Sherrill. “We're giving them aspirin and keeping
close watch on them,” she said. Sherrill warned against hypochondriacs walking to the infirmary pestering the staff with minor complaints.
“Some of the major donors complained of rapid changes in warts or moles, hoarseness and coughing, change in bowel and
bladder habits, the needle puncture in their arms not healing, unusual bleeding and discharges, and lumps in their breasts,” said
Sherrill. “Of course, this is nothing to worry about. These are frequent side-effects after donating blood,” she said.

Cannon basement won the keg of beer for the most blood donated, with 19 students donating 16 gallons. “Students as
a rule give more than faculty or staff. Students seem to be more used to giving blood at Davidson,” said
DeVaughan.

“We regret that we have to charge students for this, but it’s the only way we can keep students who
didn’t register last week from sneaking in for free,” said Burts. “We also regret that students will have so short
a notice for conferring with faculty advisors, but if students are to have courses winter quarter, we’ve got to finish
re-registration this week.” According to Burts, those who do not complete re-registration Friday will be assigned three courses at random.
“The rules clearly state that all registration forms must be in my office by Friday, October 17. Ninety percent of
them aren’t there, and my hands are tied; I can’t go making exceptions to the rules every time an accident
occurs. To make things easier for students and to facilitate the re-registration process, students won’t have to procure the signature
of their faculty advisor; a friend may substitute,” said Burts.
