\ The Davidsonian
December 12, 1975

Board confirms McAvoy, Hutchinson

By SCOTT REID
Senior News Editor

The Publications Board approved unopposed candidates Susan McAvoy and Robbie Hutchinson as 1976-77 Quips and Cranks co-editors, jobs to which they said they hope to bring their own organizational and creative skills.

Both McAvoy and Hutchinson have worked on the staff of the Quips and Cranks for the last two-and-a-half years. “We’ve been working together on the sports staff ever since our freshman year,” said McAvoy. “I kiddingly suggested then that we run together for the editorship our junior year. I guess Robbie must have taken it seriously though.”

Hutchinson expressed dissatisfaction with past editorial organization. “Through our three years here, the staff of the yearbook has been pretty apathetic,” he said. “This was the main problem with the editor last year, that and disorganization. The secret is starting out on the ground floor and getting organized soon.

“This spring we will be giving out assignments to upperclassmen and making sure they are committed to them. Most of the planning will probably be done in the spring and summer before we come back to school.

“We haven’t gotten to the specifics of planning yet. That takes time. Any ideas we have will get better with time—like good wine,” said Hutchinson. “We haven’t thought of a theme for the book yet or worked on any of the other details,” added McAvoy, “and we weren't going to until we were sure we were going to be doing the job.

“We also don’t want to say a bunch of things before we get them planned out. We could disappoint people by speculating now.”

McAvoy and Hutchinson indicated they differ slightly in their approach to yearbook editing. “I’m a photography man,” said Hutchinson, “and Sue is a copy editor. For three years we have differed on the idea of copy in the yearbook telling the story.

“We haven’t reached a specific agreement on this subject, but the yearbook will not be copy-dominated.”

McAvoy noted that a co-editorship would relieve the burdens from study loads on just one person. “The different creative ideas we have will increase the chances of a person liking the yearbook rather than if it were just my book or his book.”

Last year a big issue on campus was the censorship of the yearbook by college administration members, according to the two. Hutchinson and McAvoy appear to have similar opinions on the subject of censorship. “If it is a student publication, it is a student publication,” added Hutchinson. “As student editors, we should have enough integrity so as to be able to distinguish between the tasteful and tasteless, between the aesthetic and unaesthetic.

“If there are no written guidelines, it then falls to our own integrity which is where the responsibility should lie anyway.

“The apathy which has pervaded the operations of the yearbook since we've been here,” said McAvoy, “has caused us to be more enthusiastic about the book next year.”

By DORIS PHILLIPS
Staff Writer

Publication and delivery dates for the 1974-75 Quips and Cranks are still undecided, according to Associate Director of Alumni Relations Zack Long. Long was appointed Editor-in-Chief of the 1974-75 yearbook when the student-elected Editor-in-Chief Carrol Ensley graduated and left the yearbook unfinished.

Ensley has not returned candid senior photos and class pictures which will be used in the annual. These pictures are valued at between $600 and $1000. Long indicated he has been forced to delay decisions about the format of the annual until these pictures are returned or replaced.

Ensley promised in an October 16 letter to Long to have all of the annual materials including the pictures at the printer’s by mid-November. In a recent telephone conversation, Ensley assured college Business Manager Robert A. Currie that Long would receive the photos by the end of this week.

Smith Studios would charge $800 to reprint class photographs. The candid photos submitted by individual seniors would be difficult to replace.

“We have no schedule. We may have to cut down on pages, but we hope that it won't be necessary. Copy is being written and pictures are being taken to finish the various sections,” said Long. Long has completed the yearbook introduction.The Del Mar Printing Co., printer of The Quips and Cranks, quoted a new price for publication of the 1975-76 yearbook.

Golden retains WDAV management

WDAV Station Manager Jack Golden, who said he began the year “pretty shakily” as appointed replacement for Mark Wilensky, will be confirmed by the Senate next Tuesday as new station manager. He is unopposed for the position.

“At the start I had only four people for a staff, excluding the d.j.’s,” recalled Golden. “We needed a news director, two assistant station managers, and, most of all, we needed a first-class licensed engineer.

“The first night during freshman orientation when we were to broadcast, we weren’t sure whether we were going to be on FM or just AM carrier current. It wasn’t until fifteen minutes before we were to go on the air that we were able to get a first-class engineer to sign a one-week contract with us.

“Since that time I have gotten Derry Harper, who worked with WBT News this last summer, to be our news director. I have also recently promoted Bill Burkholder and William Beasley to the two assistant station manager positions. Bill will assist us on technical matters, and William will be in charge of programming.”

Golden noted that he has created two new positions at the station. Sally Stow is the programming assistant in charge of examining program logsheets kept by each d.j. to ensure that logsheets meet Federal Communication Commission regulatory standards. Landon Thompson fills the second new position of promotions director. He will serve as the station link to the community. Not only will he receive community service announcements, but he is in charge of publicizing WDAV programming as well.

“I felt that these two functions were so interrelated and consume so moderate an amount of one’s time that it would be best to combine the two into one position,” said Golden.

“We are still having trouble in getting ABC News on the air,” he added. “We have already received permission from ABC and WGNC in Gastonia to use the news service for free.

“The only problem we have now is getting our engineer, Jeffrey L. Watts, to install the subcarrier receiver which will pick up the news signal.

“From what we understand, Watts has the receiver and needs only to make a few adjustments on it. We should be ready to use the news by the first week after we return in January.

“Right now we plan to put the news on roughly every two hours throughout the day. We may add times or cut back. We'll be experimenting to see what times are most convenient for our listeners and our programming.”

Another area of interest for WDAV listeners, according to Golden, is the possibility of changing the station’s present monophonic signal into a stereophonic one.

“Right now the main problem with our going stereo is our need for an accurate interpretation of FCC regulations,” he said. “We don’t know whether or not we need a stereo modulation monitor, (a device which measures a station signal to prohibit interference with signals of other stations).

“Our engineer says he can get us a stereo signal generator for nothing, but he doesn’t know where to get a modulation monitor if one is required.

“Another thing is that we’d need a stereo control board for the studio. A new board would cost a great deal of money. As a consequence we are thinking of initiating some kind of communications fund drive to go stereo.”

One area Golden wants to deal with before he leaves office a year from now is the station functions in relation to the other campus organizations.

“I know we are the newest student medium on campus. Besides the YM/YWCA, we have more students involved in our operations than any other organization on campus,” Golden claimed. “Nonetheless, the station has a constitution which in recent years has been abandoned de facto.

“In addition, the station operates under the SGA By-laws which are a great deal simpler than the old station constitution.

“Which document should we be operating under? This is the type of question I want answered before I leave office.

“We need to define our position so that we can operate efficiently with the other organizations on campus,” Golden concluded.