the davidsonian

September 26, 1975

8

Pisgah Forest

Regiving of self to self typifies town

By ANGELA BARNETT
Staff Writer

When I write about my hometown, the first things that come to mind form a defense; an argument I find myself giving when it’s time to return. The defense grows as I begin recalling it - I hope to share some of it here.

One of the best things to be found in Pisgah Forest is walking. It’s a pleasure not noticed until you are too frightened of your environment to get outside, or suddenly find there is no place to go. Until two years ago, I lived on the side of a mountain where you could walk for hours. Ladyslippers bloomed there in the spring, and galax leaves shone bright red all winter long. At the very top there was a large meadow. Every time I ran away from home I went up there.

During the summer, I would visit my grandmother who lived on a farm in the valley where we live now. It was then that I began to walk in the fields.

My cousin and I would walk over pastures and under barbed wire fences to a field where they raised gladiolias, gather armfuls, and run for home before a neighboring bull got us. More trouble usually followed at home when we had to explain where we got the flowers.

After we moved to the farm, I walked to my father’s machine shop which is a small distance down the road and in Pisgah Forest proper. I would walk down in the evenings to paint in the shop, as Mother can’t stand the smell of oil paint.

A pleasant walk is when I go down on Sunday morning to get the mail. I complement the worshippers in the small church on the way they are singing and it is beautiful.

They have a small congregation, but when they have a revival you can hear it all the way up the valley.

The community where I live borders the Pisgah National Forest, U.S. Government property. The Appalachian Trail runs through the land as do many other trails. Some of the finest run through Shining Rock Wilderness Area. The path winds over old railroad ties put in over a century ago when the area was logged. Old rails lie in the pools of the Pigeon River as well as the speckled trout. The main trail leads to the Shining Rocks themselves - a large outcropping of white quartz rocks. Prejudiced as I am, I must say that the people are friendly - if you like friendly people, as I do. All of the county is divided into communities from early settlements and “community” is a good adjective for the feeling felt. People are generous to their neighbors - many a letter from home has told of a friend who gave us fresh eggs, a load of kindling, or some water ground cornmeal. This closeness of friends can also lead to clannishness. Although feuding is a state of the past, it’s not that uncommon to still hear of a shooting coming from grudges held long. And as a rule, folks are friendly.

Always surrounding is the beautiful scenery. Our front porch provides a good arena for a lot of it. On gloomy afternoons, you can sit and watch storms come over the Blue Ridge Mountains. The clouds roll over the hills in sheets and stay in the valleys until late of a morning. A big maple tree obscures the west, but when the sun shines orange against the clouds, it'll burn through the trees.

A good look at the mountains can be found off of Tater Knob. I was up there rock-climbing with friends and found the view from the side of the rock to the bottom of it panic-striking, so I stayed on at the top and looked. A coward, but alive.

The best view of the mountains is that to be found inside a person where they really get to working. The environment works in restoration. Time has taken up residence here and can easily be found whenever needed. I constantly get a feeling of participation with the past. To some, I’m sure that feeling is smothering. To me, it is a security in knowing that I belong. I am living in a family unit that has direct link-up with the past and with the land on which that past was worked.

Compliments of

CASHIONS FOOD MARKET
CORNELIUS

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans

Only 6 miles north

John Mack & Son
Mooresville