Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Long to solve yearbook dilemma
By BRAD SWALWELL
Staff Writer

The Campus Tax Council last Thursday appointed Director of Alumni Relations Zach Long to coordinate the publishing of a yearbook
for 1974-75. According to Campus Tax Council Chairman Bo Hunter, Long will only coordinate the book, with students doing the
work.

“The Council agreed that it now appears that no 1974-75 annual would be printed if the editing of that annual
were left to editor (Carroll) Ensley,” said Hunter. “Delmar Printing Company, the printer of the annual, has not received very
much material for the annual. The Council, which funds the Quips and Cranks, is acting to ensure that an annual
for 1974-75 will be printed,” he continued.

Hunter noted that the Council considered other options before deciding to ask Long to coordinate work on the yearbook. “We
thought about making the 1975-76 annual cover two years: 1974-75 and 1975-76. This did not seem fair to Randy (Hunter,
editor of the 1975-76 Quips and Cranks).”

“We also considered refunding students the money for the annual. But we decided it was best to have the 1974-75
Quips and Cranks in some form rather than not have it at all.”

Long confirmed Hunter's comment that this yearbook will be a student publication. “All I will do is coordinate to make
sure things run smoothly. The students will do the work,” he said. “Right now I'm looking for people to work
on the book, especially people who worked on it last year. But all students are welcome to help, whether or
not they worked last year.”

“We need to gather up all the material we can from last year. Candid shots, senior pictures, anything—we need them
all,” said Long, who indicated that he must meet with representatives of the printer before plans are finalized. “I'm sort
of in the dark until I meet with the printers. I don’t know what has been done so far or
exactly how much money is left for us to work with.”

Long has received some suggestions on how to make a better book by making the most of the available money.
“We're going to do some of the work here that the printer usually does: setting the copy and getting it
ready for the printers so that all they have to do is paste it up and print it,” he said.

Long has some ideas on the form of the book. He hopes to have a “reference section” in the book
with mug-type pictures of everybody who was here last year, plus the regular informal shots of seniors. Long also wants
to have lots of candid shots of campus life during the year.

“I’m more of a traditionalist,” said Long. “I like a hard-covered book. I like some copy to help tie the
book together, better than would just pictures,” he commented. “I think a yearbook should show what makes a year special,
different from any other year. Perhaps not great, but still special.”

“Last year a Davidson tradition died with the burning of Hatties. The opening of the library and Jaworski being on
campus are other examples of what made last year different from any other year,” said Long.

Board overrides governance plan
By DON BENSON
Staff Writer

The new governance system scheduled for implementation this past July has not yet been accepted by the Davidson College Board
of Trustees. The board passed a resolution May second subordinating the proposed College Constitution to the Trustee Charter and By-laws.
This represents what many feel to be a marked shift from previous efforts to restructure the Davidson governance system around
a college constitution.

The Trustee Governance Committee had conceived of a constitution with subordinate faculty, student and trustee by-laws. The trustee decision was
made on recommendation of the board legal counsel, William Mulliss. When the Governance Committee found differences between the Trustee By-laws
and the proposed constitution, Dixon Phillips was instructed to...Confer with Mulliss over the summer. Due to the illness and schedule
of Mulliss, Phillips and he were not able to meet this summer. A faculty member of the Governance Committee, Professor
of Philosophy Earl R. MacCormac, noted several possible discrepancies between the trustee by-laws and the College Constitution. According to MacCormac,
the Trustee By-laws do not specify faculty consultation in the selection of major offices of the college where the constitution
does. He also finds ambiguities with respect to tenure and what the trustees have the right to vote on concerning
matters before the faculty for action. The Trustee By-law that allows the college's president to stay any student action might
also allow the president “to interfere directly in the content of the academic program against the wishes of the faculty,”
MacCormac noted.

Professor of Religion Alexander J. McKelway, also a faculty representative on the Governance Committee, expressed concern that the Trustee action
subordinating the constitution “represents a different spirit on their part, a defensiveness in showing the daily decision-making process. The faculty
did not enter into this enterprise with a great deal of one,” said McKelway. “We were sold on the idea
only because we felt on the part of the trustees a willingness to establish a better and more practical distribution
of authority. This involves operating as if the involved parties were on parity. It is a commitment to procedures. If
a major conflict arose, the prerogatives of decision were clearly outlined and rested ultimately with the trustees,” McKelway said.

Student Government Association President John Munce pointed out that the proposed College Constitution was more favorable to students than the
current Trustee By-laws. “Under the College Constitution, the college president can stay any action only with the concurrence of the
majority of the Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life. This committee has ten student members of 18, while the
Trustee By-laws entrust the president with the power to suspend any action and take it before the trustees.”

TABLED: Two Senators confer after a vote on the College Constitution.

SGA Senate takes issue with trustees’ decisions
By STEVE BELL
Staff Writer

The SGA Senate has threatened to rescind its support for the proposed reforms of the college governance structure unless the
Davidson Board of Trustees agrees to give the new College Constitution predominance over the Trustee By-Laws. In a unanimous vote
at its meeting Tuesday night, the Senate approved a resolution calling for the Board “to delete from the Trustee By-Laws
any portions which conflict with the proposed College Constitution. Without such action, the Senate will be forced to reconsider its
acceptance of the College Constitution.”

The proposed College Constitution gives Davidson students a share of the power in the governance of the college. This is
one of the main conflicts with the current structure, based on the Trustee By-Laws, which grants students no voice in
governance. The Senate’s vote Tuesday night once again signifies its strong support for the proposed Constitution. This support has been
affirmed in several resolutions of the Senate over the past two years. Thus, there was some question as to how
seriously its threat to withdraw that support would be taken by the trustees. Moreover, the point of promising to reconsider
support for the Constitution if the trustees decide to kill it also provoked some doubts as to the impact of
the resolution.

After the meeting, President of the SGA, John Munce, conceded, “Sure, it’s a hollow threat, but it’s not completely hollow.
The purpose of the resolution is primarily to make clear our position on the new governance system.”

Also Tuesday night, the Senate voted to instate Jack Golden as manager of WDAV, filling the position vacated by Mark
Wilensky last summer. Several positions on faculty committees were also filled. Alison Andrews was appointed to the Alumni Activities Committee,
Kevin McConnell to the Athletics Committee, Cosby Swanson to the Religious Policy Committee, and Bo Baskin and Peyton Marshall to
the Trustee Governance Committee.
