April 24, 1975
The Davidsonian

### The admissions process
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

"Answer ALL questions...and mail as soon as possible with your $15 application fee (not refundable) to the Office of Admissions,
Davidson College...The manner in which you follow directions and complete this application will be an important part of the evaluation
of you as an applicant."

For most Davidson students, this phrase marked the beginning of a series of communications that climaxed in admission to the
College. While it may be difficult to recall the questions asked, the visit, and the interviews, one’s first impression of
Davidson was largely the result of this beginning relationship with the admissions office.

Recently, the admissions office, working with six faculty members, completed the selections for next year’s freshman class. What criteria formed
the basis for these selections and how do the criteria influence the character of the student body at Davidson? What
impression of Davidson does the admissions office try to give?

After a folder on an applicant is completed, at least one member of the admissions staff and one member of
the faculty admissions committee evaluate it. The applicant is encouraged to come to Davidson for a visit and an interview
with either Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White or one of the Assistant Directors, Brenda F. Parnell, Larry J. Barr,
or Duff Bruce. Each interview is a personal one, although certain aspects are stressed by all on the admissions staff,
including questions relating to community service, vocational interests, character, and academic ability.

Many applicants fill their forms with examples of their service to school, church, and community. This is not always a
good indication of their interest in pursuing community work at Davidson. Bruce commented, "We get kids here who have done
everything. Some kids were expected to do everything in high school. When they get here, they are ready to forget
it for a while. I get rankled as the next person around here when you’ve got people running for the
newspaper or the Union unopposed. I like to find students who think a little beyond."

Larry J. Barr is especially concerned about financial aid. "In reading a lot of applications from seniors (high school), I’m
really impressed with their community involvement. I don’t know what happens when people come to Davidson—many become stifled." He added,
"The caliber of the student body has a potential that is not being used." Barr attributed part of the cause
for this to a concern on the student’s part for the long-range goals of graduate school and for academics. However,
he does not think that lack of community involvement can be explained adequately as a part of a general trend
toward vocations and away from social concerns.

White admits that predicting an applicant’s devotion to community while at Davidson is a difficult one. However, he believes that
the applicant will receive the impression of Davidson’s commitment to service for others through the admissions process and can decide
whether he or she is interested in a school that stresses this concept. White, in contrast to Bruce and Barr,
believes that a student who was service-oriented in high school will continue this interest while enrolled at Davidson.

The admissions staff is interested in what career an applicant is thinking about. However, they realize that these plans are
likely to change while the student is at Davidson. Bruce remarked that he tries to evaluate how serious a prospective
student is about the career he or she has mentioned. Sometimes a career orientation will influence how an applicant fills
out the forms, and this must be taken into consideration.

Analysis of character must be subjective to a large degree. The admissions staff tries to consider a number of factors
to arrive at an accurate view of an applicant’s character. Among these factors are consideration of recommendations, the applicant’s attention
to details in filling out the admission forms, the autobiography he or she writes, and the applicant’s...reaction to Davidson’s Statement
of Purpose. Recommendations are required from two of the student’s teachers and from the student's minister, youth advisor, employer, or
someone who knows the student well. Bruce and White pointed out that the stress placed on the recommendations depends on
whether the admissions staff knows the person recommending a student and, most importantly, whether the recommendation seems to be honest
and straightforward. The applicant’s attention to details is important. White said that he is likely to give high consideration to
an application when it looks like a student has taken time to consider his or her responses carefully and has
written them down clearly. Attention to detail especially is important in the autobiography, and this aspect of the admissions form
often figures highly into the admission staff’s decisions. All applicants are required to write a response to Davidson’s Statement of
Purpose. This aspect of the admission procedure recently has been questioned, especially its emphasis on Davidson’s ties with the church.

Duff Bruce Questions Statement of Purpose

Bruce has reservations about the present place of the Statement of Purpose in the application form. He thinks that it
might be more effective placed after the autobiography instead of before it because an applicant’s response to the Statement often
carries over into the autobiography. “I think that everyone who applies here should be made aware of the church-related function
of the College. I’m not sure this is the best way,” Bruce commented. However, he does not believe that the
question heavily influences a person who really is interested in Davidson. Bruce added that most applicants write stock responses to
the Statement of Purpose, and when an applicant disagrees with some aspect of it, he or she stands out more
than others. Barr remarked, “That’s (the Statement) the way the College sees itself. I see nothing wrong with a statement
of purpose. The college needs a statement of purpose—every college needs that. I think what it boils down to is
whether that’s what the College is.” White admits that some ambiguity exists about the use of the Statement in admissions
procedure. However, he believes that Davidson has strong ties with the church, specifically the Presbyterian Church. He believes that the
response to the Statement is useful in letting the applicant know the College’s position. “The incoming students don’t have to
have any religion at all, but they should realize Davidson’s position,” White said. “We may decide to alter the way
this matter is approached,” he concluded.

Recently, financial aid for prospective students has become less economically feasible for Davidson. Both Bruce and Barr recognize this potential
problem. Barr commented, “In the long run, it’s going to have some bearing on the type of student we’re going
to be able to ask to Davidson.” He said that he knows of nothing presently being done to alleviate the
problem of financial aid. Bruce remarked, “I think it’s more of a limiting factor than when we were in school.”
However, he added, “In terms of the kind of people we’re getting here, it hasn’t affected us; in terms of
recruiting, we still go to the same schools.” Bruce said that the College faces a dilemma between giving total financial
aid to a few or giving partial aid to relatively more students.

In the end, admissions at Davidson is an individualized procedure. The admissions staff freely admits that admissions has a large
public relations aspect to it. They try to project the best picture of Davidson possible, but also try to answer
questions from applicants and their parents honestly. Few standard admissions policies seem to exist. The department relies on individual impressions
of applicants from staff members. The in-depth application form, recommendations, autobiography, and the interview ensure a multi-faceted approach to admissions
decisions. An applicant may receive a different perspective of Davidson according to whom he or she talks to in the
admissions office and on campus. Despite its public relations function, no single Admissions View of Davidson College exists.
