Eight The Davidsonian January 16, 1975

Messiaen Creates Apocalyptic Quartet

By CARL SCHWARTZ : Staff Writer

“I saw a mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud, and a rainbow was upon his head,
and his face was as if it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire.

“He set his right foot upon the sea, and his left foot upon the earth, lifted up his hand to
heaven, and swore by Him that liveth forever and ever, saying: THERE SHALL BE TIME NO LONGER; but in the
days of the Trumpet of the seventh angel, the mystery of God shall be finished.”

This text (“Revelation of St. John”: Chapter 10, Verses 1-7) was the inspiration for the “Quartet for the End of
Time” composed and premiered at a prison camp in Silesia in 1941 by the contemporary French composer Olivier Messiaen (b.
1908). He is featured in a recently released Angel recording (s-36587) with Michel Beroff at the piano; Gervase de Peyer,
clarinet; Erich Gruenberg, violin; and William Pleeth on the cello.

By CHUCK HARMON Associate Editor

The experience of a New Year's Eve performance by Tim Weisburg in Atlanta convincingly demonstrates that Weisburg is an artist
capable of combining creative musical genius with an electrifying stage performance.

Tim Weisburg is a flutist. But to describe his music is to confront that awful dilemma of selecting rubrics under
which to identify contemporary music. “Basically I guess it’s pop or rock flute,” he explained, quick to deny the label
“jazz.” “Don’t use jazz,” he said. Yet he admits that much of the material he and his supporting band perform
has a jazz flavor, while acknowledging that there is apparently a recent trend toward jazz-oriented rock music.

“I think rock musicians are listening to more and more jazz. I think they look up to jazz musicians and
admire their music.” This attention to more serious musical expression Weisburg attributes to a heightened level of listening in rock
music. “I think audiences are (and have been) way, way ahead of recording companies. Back in 1970 or so before
I had a record contract, nobody—record companies, concert agents, club owners—would buy instrumental music.

“The Mahavishnu Orchestra started it all, and now it’s the thing. The audiences have been ready for a long time.”
For Tim Weisburg, the audience is an important consideration. “More than anything, I love to play in front of an
audience.” Having seen his show I am utterly convinced of the sincerity of that statement.

In his performance he demonstrates a technical proficiency as a musician that complements his exuberance as a performer. “Being a
performer goes along with being an innovator in music, I think. I like performing more than anything. A show would
have a beginning—something that excites the audience—a middle, and an end. The whole thing should flow. Just like when you
are putting together an album; you have the tunes on tape, but they change according to the order you put
them in. The same is true for a live performance.”

As for the music he is doing now, Weisburg is conscious of tonal development. “I think you can see something
begin in ‘Dreamspeaker,’ the third album, and continue in the fourth (‘Tim Weisburg 4’). It’s an ensemble sound, the focus
is on the blending of flute and guitar playing the same lines together. I try to keep the flute recognizable
on top of the rhythm.” This is a technique which shows itself clearly in such varying musical styles as Dave
Mason (guitar and voice), and as Weisburg also pointed out, in the Allman Brothers Band’s use of two guitars or
guitar and keyboard along with voice to create two and three melodic lines simultaneously. “The music has also grown in
the direction of our use of the synthesizer that provides tonal color.”

Yet for the listener, somewhere in the music there is an expression that seems to go beyond instrumental. Weisburg noted
how Ian Anderson (of Jethro Tull) uses both flute and voice in rock, and described how he himself prefers to
use the flute all the time as a voice. Still, an interviewer once asked him (after demonstrating his seeming familiarity
with Weisburg’s music) about the use of lyrics and Weisburg was forced to explain to the embarrassed writer the absence
of voice.

Though he admits he has “listened to rock and roll forever,” Weisburg’s background is classical. “I like to listen to
classical music for proficiency, and I still practice and take lessons. I guess I started jamming with the flute about
six years ago.” Weisburg is proud that “I am doing exactly what I want to do. The record company is
confused, but they try to stay out of the way.” He built his band with the idea in mind of
what kind of music he wanted to do, and with the freedom afforded him through his obvious success in rock
music he is pleased that he has “never had to consciously try.”To be innovative or sell something. “I guess most
of the albums sell in the 17-24 group, but it ranges from 14 on up,” Weisberg said. The members of
his band all have rock backgrounds, and Weisberg chose them because of their excellent talents. He sees himself as a
catalyst in composition, but the music is developed with a majority of ideas discussed with the band. “I think of
myself as a leader soloist, but also as a member of an ensemble. I may motivate what is created, but
I think orchestrally. I like to use the group because it is constructed of incredible musicians.”

As for new directions for Weisberg, he explained that the next album, including material now being developed, will be more
challenging music for the band. He has considered a solo album making use of all of the studio effects possible
with his flute, but for Weisberg that is not for now; it will have to come at the right stage
of his career. Presently, Weisberg mostly concerns himself with writing music for the show. He prefers concerts to club dates
because he can focus on the performance with fewer distractions. Mostly, he just loves what he will be doing here.
“I love to perform and college dates are my favorite—no doubt about it—I love college concerts.” For Weisberg, performance is
contact, and he expressed genuine excitement at making contact with the Davidson community in his upcoming show on Jan. 18
in Love Auditorium.

The work was scored in this unusual fashion since these instruments were the only ones available in the prison camp.
The performances are truly impressive—including some of the most incredible clarinet playing I have ever heard—and the recording quality and
disc surfaces are excellent. The Quartet consists of eight parts all interrelated: Crystal Liturgy, Vocalise for the Angel who announces
the end of time, Abyss of the Birds, Intermezzo, In Praise of the Eternity of Jesus, Dance of Fury for
the Seven Trumpets, Cluster of Rainbows for the Angel who announces the end of Time, and In Praise of the
Immortality of Jesus. Messiaen writes of the reason for the text: “... I was drawn not to the cataclysms and
monsters of the Apocalypse, but rather to its silences of adoration, its marvelous visions of peace.” The composition reflects many
of Messiaen’s revolutionary attitudes towards his art and represents one of the formative works for his unique musical language. For
instance, the vision of the rainbow was used as an opportunity to employ varying intensities of sound color. The idea
of Time and the end of it is represented by Messiaen’s employment of simple and complex rhythmic formulas used in
a normal mode; in retrograde if possible, and augmented or diminished in time. These rhythmic techniques are native to non-western
music and alien to Messiaen’s teachers: the generation of Debussy and Ravel. He also employs transcriptions of Birdsong, a device
dominating his music today.

Messiaen’s music can be very abstract; he employs polyphonic writing, with the introduction of polyrhythm as well, and in this
respect adheres to the French Neo-Classical Tradition. At the same time, he seeks to revitalize Romanticism. He was a member
of the “Young France” musical group as a student, an organization founded to save Romanticism. It may be that Messiaen
has done so. He explains his attitude: “It is a glistening music we seek, giving to the aural sense voluptuously
refined pleasures. At the same time, this music should be able to express noble sentiments.”

A second early work of Messiaen is also available in a new recording: “Visions de L’Amen” dating from 1943 and
scored for Two Pianos. It shocked Paris when it was premiered after the composer’s release by the Germans that year.
Messiaen seeks to represent the four meanings of “Amen”: “Amen, so be it! The creative act; Amen, I submit, I
accept, Thy will be done; Amen, the wish, the desire, that this may be, that you may give to me
and I to you!; Amen, that is, all is fixed forever, consummated in Paradise.” There are seven intense movements: Amen
of the Creation; Amen of the Stars of the Ringed Planet; Amen of the Agony of Jesus; Amen of Desire;
Amen of the Angels, Saints and Birdsong; Amen of the Judgment; and Amen of the Consummation. Its language is entirely
similar to the Quartet with annoying little lapses into more traditional and less dissonant harmonic language although in reducing the
level of dissonance here, unlike the Quartet, he entirely avoids resolving these passages in a conventional fashion. It is a
minor problem anyway and rather more amusing than irritating.

The “Visions” are rich in invention and demand everything in the way of sound from the Piano. The grand chorale
of the Creation provides the unifying force with its processing chords and ringing bells. Other themes ranging from delicate to
dramatic, and the Birdsong are used. In all, it is an overwhelming piece of music. The performance by Peter Serkin
and Yuji Takahashi (RCA-ARL-1-0363) is impressive but a bit unrelenting at times, the recording is clear and close-miked. The studio
seems to have expanded the dynamic range at the beginning, a cheap gimmick creating the unrealistic impression of the sound
there.

Robin and Linda Williams
The Hungry Coffeehouse Circuit will present this folk duo in the Rathskeller Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday evenings at 9.
