February 6, 1975 The Davidsonian - Five

Wruck Denies ‘Das Kapital’ Panacea

(Ed. note: This is a response from Dr. Erich Wruck to last week’s faculty guest column by E. F. Patterson.)

To the Editor:

During World War II, I knew a fellow soldier who, no matter what the subject was, would inevitably end up
talking about the importance of coal. He was a chemist, in uniform and out. One day the battery commander told
him to give a talk on the cultural life of Danzig, the town in which he was raised and educated,
and which the Russian army had just cut off from the Reich. As usual, he performed well. He began to
talk about the Marienkirche, Artushof, and Krantor, and with a slight trace of pride, of such men as Chodowiecki, Schopenhauer,
and Schichau, who had come from Elbing and started another shipyard, and of course, that meant coal. It only took
a few minutes and the major portion of his presentation was on his favorite and only subject. Strangely enough, nobody
minded it. After all, he spoke with wit and authority, quoting publications—even some in foreign languages—and mentioning an adequate amount
of names. But above all, he believed in it. Well, those were the days when a man in Germany had
to be a scientist and preferably free of any religious commitment if he wanted to be regarded as an intellectual
and a man of the future.

...Chimps Speak (Continued from page 4)

Teaching language to chimpanzees? That is an example that was recently selected by Sen. William Proxmire (D.-Wis.) as typifying the
flagrant misuse of government funds on totally useless projects. What is the use of such a project? Could you imagine
trying to explain and justify such a project to your grandmother? (The Proxmire Test of Scientific Excellence)

“So what are you doing in graduate school now, son?”
“Well, Grandma, I’m trying to teach chimpanzees to talk...” (Pause. Fingering of volume control on Beltone).
“Let me turn this darned thing up. There now. What’s that again?”
“Well, Grandma, I’m trying to teach chimpanzees to talk. You see, for years scientists have thought that language was the
exclusive property...”
“Is there much demand for that, son? I mean, who buys your talking chimpanzees? The circus? How much do they
pay?”
“No, no, Grandma. You see, I’m just interested in language, and no one had shown until recently...”
“What good is a talking chimpanzee?”

That question cannot be answered simply. Faced with the anticipated “So what?” response, the pure scientist will commonly fall back
on the not unreasonable explanation that some projected application will result from any increment in knowledge. He may then proceed
to offer some likely immediate applications: techniques for teaching chimps to use language can be a boon in teaching autistic
or retarded children, or stroke victims, etc.; if we discover what kinds of cues migratory birds use to get from
A to B, perhaps we could improve long-range weapons’ guidance systems.

This your grandmother and Sen. Proxmire can understand, though they might suggest you try a more frontal assault on the
“relevant” problems. I would not minimize the potential importance of such applications; they do spring from the seedbed of pure
science with sufficient regularity that pure science does continue to be rewarded with grant support, albeit less now than previously.

I would argue that the likelihood of such immediate applications, or even the importance of the practical problem that such
applications could help to resolve, should not be the main criterion by which all research is judged (and funded). And
I would further point out that in the effort to make basic research projects appear attractively “relevant” there is a
real danger of implicitly promising too much, too soon, which ultimately works to the detriment of all scientists.

Science runs slowly, more slowly than most laymen expect. Progress, basic or applied, is measured often in terms of years,
not months, and may be meager when it comes. Basic research is oriented more toward the understanding of phenomena than
toward the power to immediately control them. It should be judged by somewhat different criteria than applied research; namely, is
it likely to explain the phenomenon, to integrate a range of previous observations to provide the basis for accurately predicting
new observations as yet unmade, to ultimately add to our knowledge of what causes what in the world. These are
difficult judgments. They should be entrusted to researchers interested in similar things, and not to laymen looking for the quick
answer to the pressing practical problems. As much as anything else, science may be seen as an orderly and organized
(more or less)...expression of the basic curiosity of man, an expression of his need to know, which has survived in
its present form. Put aside the incredible practical problems currently facing our world, for which much applied research is appropriately
aimed, pure science is not a mere luxury we can do without. Certainly not everyone who comes along with an
“irrelevant” research proposal will be a Darwin or a Pavlov. But I, for one, am thankful that the latter never
had to try to justify their work to Sen. Proxmire. As we know, that was a generation ago and is
past. Today, unless natural scientists are “politically engaged,” they are “reactionaries,” and “progressive” people, even some ministers, carry a card
of the DKP or KPD. Different as these generations might be at first glance, they nevertheless have one major thing
in common: they believe they have the answers to all problems, and if given the chance, the ability to solve
them. Thus it does not surprise me that doctor noster E. Patterson even has a solution for the Davidson students’
anxiety and fear problem on a “highly scientific level”: a new social system! Kohl! Nobody, not even Germans (not to
mention people on the other side of the globe) would have heard of Marx had it not been for fear
and anxiety, which among other things drove him to write (as they do Dr. Patterson and in this exceptional case
even me). No, Dr. Patterson, if you want to show young people the way to paradise, mention the Good Book,
and that is not ‘Das Kapital.” Non ridere, non lugere neque detestari, sed intelligere.

Erich Wruck
Professor of German
Davidson College

Meredith Hall

That the “paint and powder and television appearances...I don’t like...one ought to get out and meet the people” was to
me an older man’s inacceptance of new modes and changes. It has always been hard for me to disagree.

To the Editor:

Have there been years previous when a secure administration has rashly blundered or forced its way into a series of
foolish or amoral incidents, injurious to the concerns of the student, faculty, and community of Davidson? Sub-standard housing, WDAV takeover,
Southern Bell collusion, yearbook censorship, etc. have added a poignant bitterness to the rank of traditional criticisms hoisted and cast
off with seasonal regularity by the Davidson student. For a full moment the student body reacted with outrage; for a
brief instance the student government sat up on its diminutive, quaking legs and barked with enthusiasm against a continuum of
injustice—all with more fervor than the last hollow years of empty passion. Once more, however—not enough. Swift reprisal by an
aged council of trustees, a silent and unassailable administration, affected declarations of innocence and academic altruism, and seeping panic caused
by the advent of exams combined to still the voices of protest and alarm. Now, as reflected by Mark Deaton
in his article of January 16, the time has come for a re-evaluation, a new role examination. I cannot lash
out against the indomitable bureaucracy of an absolute administration alone. It would be senseless. But the student, the professor, the
community—these are bodies which require a swift prod to draw reaction. With hope these reactions will embody fresh thought, sense
of obligation, concern, and touch of pride, culminating in two difficult but not inconceivable actions: introspection and cooperation. The general
tone of the chord suspended between the Davidson student and his human environment is lackluster, vapid, and deliberately slack. Conversely,
that between the student and his academic role is rigid, confining, and stretched to the point of irremediable strain. The
world of Davidson can be made a real and purposeful one, incorporating student, faculty, and townsman, only after the initial
steps of re-evaluation. Once the gears within a student’s voice shift, and when the wheels within a belabored and affronted
government’s mechanism turn, only then can an administration once indomitable, once unassailable, be confronted with the student constitution, its tenets,
its rights, and its theory. Finally, aware of a unified concern within the community, the bureaucrats of Davidson College (such
as they are) will reconsider administrative amorality and incorporate this concern into the dictates of thought and action. Perhaps then
will the ostensible “creed of Davidsonia” be realized as a sanction beneficial.

David S. Richardson ’76

England with Mahatma Gandhi. His unerringly accurate... Those close to him felt uncanny in their accuracy, if they resisted them
initially. He abandoned many of his ideas, not the least of which was his notion of making India a society
of small towns and industries. Now, another fellow, Gart Rogers, has indicated his interest in Human-Sized Institutions. In the face
of these...

The Davidson Scholar welcomes the serene beauty of the autumn snow as an aesthetic break from the bleak winter rain.
