the davidsonian

Cross country off to good start

By MARK POSTOVE

Staff Writer

The Davidson cross country team evened its record at 1-1 with two meets last week.

The Wildcats defeated High Point Thursday in a meet run in the rain over the Panthers’ mud-slicked course.

Two days later, Georgia State edged Davidson in a dual meet scored from the results of the Stone Mountain Road Race in Georgia.

High Point’s Dennis Couahey was the overall winner in 27:44 over the five-mile course. Davidson took second and third, with junior co-captain Coty Pinckney finishing in 28:11 and freshman Doug Horn in 28:12.

Rounding out Davidson's top five were senior Fred Borch in fifth place, junior John Barksdale in seventh, and sophomore Zack Murrell in 11th.

The usual method of scoring the top five finishers for each team resulted in a 28-28 tie. However, the tie-breaker of scoring the top four gave Davidson a 17-19 victory, the low score winning in cross country.

“I wasn't displeased at all with the team,” said Coach Sterling Martin. “In fact, I was quite pleased. High Point has picked up some outstanding freshmen.

“This was our first race of the season, while High Point had already run two meets. This gave them a little edge over us,” commented one of the runners.

On Saturday, Davidson participated in the Stone Mountain Road Race, a five-mile race which attracted over 400 runners from the southeastern United States. The top five finishers for the Cats were the same as in the High Point meet.

Pinckney finished 46th in 26:11, a personal best, which is better than average.

“Coty was 47th last year in 26:53, so although he improved 42 seconds, he only moved up one place,” commented Martin. “This indicates the strength of this year’s field.”

Another indication of the improved competition was the performance of Georgia State's top runner, Wayne Roach. He finished third last year but could manage only sixth place this year despite a time of 24:35, which bettered the existing course record.

Horn ran 26:50 for 77th place, while Borch finished in 84th place in 27:04, also a personal best.

“Horn did a beautiful job,” said Martin, “but Borch has been the real surprise of the team. He did an outstanding job. He has improved tremendously.”

Barksdale and Murrell finished in 27:42 and 27:43 respectively.

“Barksdale did a fine job, and Murrell has been running a good solid fifth for us,” Martin added.

Oddly enough, Davidson and Georgia State also tied at 28-28, but the tie-breaker this time gave Georgia State the win, 17-20.

Other Davidson talents participating in the race were Professor of Sociology Norman Koller, 1975 graduate Mark Connors, and Martin.

Koller and Martin ran in the 30-40 group, with respective times of 33:50 and 30:40. Koller’s time was especially good considering this was his first competitive distance race ever, according to Martin.

By JANE PERKINS
Staff Writer

With the start of practice less than a month away, the women’s basketball team does not have a coach.

A conservative interpretation of the rules at the 1974-1975 NAIA Women's basketball tournament stripped the team of its coach. According to the rules, the coach of a women’s team must be, “women whenever possible,” and the coach cannot be an undergraduate student.

At the state tournament last year, a resident of Davidson was acting as the official coach despite the fact that all coaching decisions were made by men undergraduates.

Following an opening round victory, a protest against Davidson’s eligibility was filed before the NAIA. No action was taken against the team and the victory was allowed to stand. But it was made clear that the team could not play this year with undergraduate coaches.

The athletic administration's delay in finding a new coach has turned many of the team members against the administration.

“They've hardly been helpful, all we want is to play basketball, and now this technicality is holding us back. We're getting a raw deal,” said one team member.

Joe Duncan, one of last year’s undergraduate coaches, agreed with this view. Duncan pointed out that while the women’s team takes the game as seriously as the men’s team, the athletic department has yet to treat the two teams on an equal basis.

“They don't pay as much attention to the girls’ basketball program as they should or where they would anywhere else,” Duncan stated.

Athletic Director Thom Cartmill feels however that, “there is no basic change on the part of the administration.”

Cartmill also stated that a coach is expected to be chosen from several applicants, “with intercollegiate experience,” within the next week.

Ken Schmader, one of last year’s assistant coaches will again serve in that capacity in order to maintain continuity in the coaching, according to Cartmill.

Until a coach is chosen, Cartmill sees no reason why candidates and team members could not join together in their pre-season fitness program.

Although the team has been promised a full-time woman coach for the upcoming season, there is a growing fear among team members that at this late date a coach will be chosen more for her availability than for her ability.

-Pete Goodman

Donna Sherrill expresses the strain of competition.