Nine April 10, 1975 Maturin

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Contributing Editor

The Davidson tennis team fashioned a 6-3 victory over Atlantic Christian College Wednesday afternoon to run their record to 8-6
for the season.

“I thought it was a very well-played match and a very good win for us,” commented Cat mentor Jeff Frank.
“It certainly is good to have this one before going to Furman this weekend.”

The match with Furman Saturday will be a key point in the season for Davidson, as the Paladins are rated
as the second-best team in the Southern Conference.

In the contest with Atlantic Christian, Rick Quinby, the senior team captain, took a tough three-set match at the number
one singles position by edging Bill Kent 6-1, 6-7, 6-2. This was the third season that Quinby and Kent have
met, previously squaring off at the sixth and second spots the last two years.

John Mitchell also took three sets to win at the third singles. He beat Asad Nizz 2-6, 6-1, 6-3, in
what Frank called “a very good win.”

Playing at the fifth singles position, Stuart Boswell gained a victory over Gee Souls, 6-3, 7-5, while Steve Holman crushed
Kevin Umstaedter 6-1, 6-0 at the sixth position. Chip Bondurant and Mike Barnhill suffered losses for the Cats.

In the doubles competition, the Cats dropped the top slot as Quinby and Boswell fell to Kent and Pat Taylor
by a score of 7-6, 6-3. The other doubles were more productive for Davidson. At the number two position, Bondurant
and Barnhill teamed to take a 6-4, 6-2 victory over Rocky Peed and Nizz. The win clinched the match for
Davidson. The third doubles match saw Mitchell and Greg Dunn emerge victorious over Souls and Umstaedter, 6-4, 6-2.

On the overall play of the team thus far this season, Frank was full of praise and optimism. “I certainly
am not discouraged with the play of our boys at this point,” he commented. “Of our six losses, four came
to Dartmouth, Harvard, Duke, and UNC, all of which are very good teams.”

Noting that his squad was primarily filled with young players, Frank realized that inexperience would be a problem early in
the season. But he feels that the team is maturing at a proper pace. Naturally, he is concerned about the
conference situation. “Right now, Appalachian would have to be considered as the top team since they have beaten Furman and
have most of their top six players returning,” Frank explained.

Laura Moses Poetry in motion

Ruggers

By JEFF MORROW
Staff Writer

Last Saturday the Davidson College Rugby team faced both Wofford and the Citadel in Spartanburg. In the noon game against
Wofford, Peyton Prospere started the scoring with a 4-point try. The defensive effort of the Cats, led by Tom McKenzie,
was fabulous. Later, with a strong wind advantage, Wofford got off a tremendous kick. The ball sailed past most of
the Davidson scrum, and only Carlton Cooke, Bill Kelly, and Joe Craig were left to face the Dog onslaught. They
tried, but force of numbers gave Wofford the try and extra points and a 6-4 lead.

Davidson was pushed in the second half to contain a constant Wofford pressure, but the Cats held on. Sheldon Parker
stopped a seemingly sure Dog goal. Chris Young raced through Wofford’s line to score the last Cat try. The field
goal was good and Davidson won 10-6.

Mike Stick broke the 4 o’clock afternoon game with the Citadel wide open in the early minutes. He made a
great try but it was ruled no good. Then the Cats wavered and the soldiers grabbed a 6-0 lead. Marty
Williamson played...superbly at this point and Pete Alford managed the Cat's scrum with precision. He engineered a long Cat try
scored by Young. Mark Armstrong scored another and Young made the third Davidson try of the game, giving the Cats
a 16-6 victory. “Since we lost to William and Mary and beat Richmond, who beat William and Mary, we would
look headed toward a tie for third in the conference. Then everything would hinge on the draw in the tournament.”
The importance of the match with Furman this weekend becomes very apparent. Frank indicated that he thought there was a
good possibility that the Cats could take the Paladins, which would provide tremendous momentum and confidence for the remainder of
the season. Frank emphasized that the “kids are playing well right now and are thinking positive.” He feels that the
scrappy mental outlook and aggressive nature of play that the players are exhibiting are instrumental in the progress the squad
has made this season. In assessing the performance of the team thus far, Frank made a very interesting observation. Whereas
most teams will have certain strong points and other weak points, the Cats do not seem to have any consistently
strong or weak areas. Frank clarified this somewhat by saying, “We are never sure on a given day where our
match points are coming from. We have just been getting good play from different people at different times.” Individually, he
has been impressed with the play of Barnhill and Holman who have won the most matches. “Barnhill has been our
toughest and most consistent player thus far,” Frank said. “But the real tests will come in the tournament, and that
is where all the marbles really are.” Regarding the conference tournament, the Southern Conference will be going to a new
format, similar to the one used by the Atlantic Coast Conference. Each of the four first-round winners will move into
the semifinals, as has always been the case. The losers will, however, continue into a consolation bracket. They have been
eliminated in the past. What this means is that the victories in the first round are more critical than in
previous years. A first-round winner will score five team points, even if he loses both his semifinal and consolation matches,
placing him fourth in the particular seed. A first-round loser, on the other hand, will tally only four team points
if he wins both his ensuing matches, which would place him fifth in a particular seed. The first and second-place
finishers in each seed will score eight and seven team points respectively. Third place is worth six points.

The Side Door netters face S.C. tourney

The thrill of victory
Pete Goodman

The Davidson netmen excelled in singles play against Atlantic Christian, taking the number one, third, fifth, and sixth singles.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS * P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary

252 N. Main Street
Featuring the best in Kosher Sandwiches
Try It. You’ll Like It
Schlitz Draft Beer
Mug
Regular—50¢
Pitcher
Regular—$2.50
Students—40¢
Students—$2.00

Mooresville
Hours
Mon.-Thurs. 10:30 a.m.-8 p.m.
Friday: 10:30 a.m.-8 p.m.
Sat: 10:30 a.m.-8 p.m.
