October 10, 1975

The Davidsonian

Football Squad Faces Bears,
Tough Offensive Backfield

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

The Davidson College football team, after losing to Guilford last week, faces a powerful Lenoir Rhyne squad this week.

Kick-off time is 2 p.m. on Richardson Field.

The Bears broke from a sluggish start and whipped Newberry 31-6 last week to raise their record to 2-1-1.

They defeated the Wildcats handily last year, as their offense rolled. They have averaged close to 400 yards total offense
per game this season.

“They are a very explosive football team that has something like nine of their eleven defensive starters and eight of
eleven offensive starters back,” said Davidson coach Ed Farrell. “They will be an extremely tough opponent for us.”

Lenoir Rhyne’s offense is led by two running backs, Scott Crawford and Mike McWhirter. Crawford, who was an all-Carolinas Conference
selection last year when he rushed for 1191 yards, has already gained 454 yards in four games.

Davidson’s hope depends upon the ability of the offense, which showed some improvement against Guilford, to control the ball against
the more experienced Bears.

Larry Hardaway takes a handoff from Sid Osborn en route to a sixty-yard day, and the Wildcats’ first touchdown of
the season.

“We've gotten to the point that we can mount some offense to get the first downs to keep a drive
going,” Farrell optimistically commented.

“But we’ve got to find a way to come up with the big play. We've given up some big plays,
but we haven’t been getting any ourselves.”

Davidson again will be going with five or six freshmen starters, including either Bill Wolar or Sid Osborne at quarterback.

The defense is looking forward to the return of senior defensive back Mike Eubanks, who missed the first two games
because of an injury.

Photos by Goodman

Fullback Terrell Rhye bursts through the Quaker line for a first down.

Guilford 26-10

Guilford Humbles Wildcats,
Duncan Boots 52-Yarder

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

The Wildcat football squad dropped its home opener 26-10 to Guilford last Saturday.

The Wildcats, 0-2, took the lead in the first quarter on a 52-yard field goal by Joe Duncan, which deflected
off of the left upright.

Larry Hardaway gave the Wildcats a 10-7 halftime advantage by sweeping in from the one-yard line. The scoring play was
set up by a 50-yard pass from quarterback Sid Osborne to Stan Brown.

The Wildcats continued to shine on their initial third-quarter possession.

Davidson drove from its own 39-yard line to the Guilford eight before Osborne was thrown for a 10-yard loss on
a fourth-and-goal play.

“For two-thirds of the game we felt we were vastly improved,” head coach Ed Farrell explained. “But the momentum completely
went the other way in the third and fourth quarters.”

The momentum did change, as Guilford took just three plays to score, taking the lead for good at 14-10.

The Davidson offense was led by Hardaway, who gained 60 yards on 16 carries, and Brown, who caught two passes
for 98 yards.

“I should add that our players’ reaction following the loss to Guilford was encouraging,” Farrell remarked. “They are not discouraged
and they are willing to work to make the improvements that are necessary.”
