May 2, 1975 The Davidsonian Nine Screen Play — Leon Venable

Cats clinch 2nd in S.C. race with VMI doubleheader win

By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats upped their record to 20-14 in an impressive victory over Catawba College Tuesday, 15-2. The Cats were tough at the plate as four home runs were swatted out of the park.

“We played well and I was pleased with the win,” commented Wildcat baseball coach Junior Wade.

Earlier last week, the Cats lost a tough one to Lenoir-Rhyne by the score of 5-4. Sophomore Tim Peck was the pitcher in the losing effort. Fielding for both teams was hampered by a poorly conditioned field at Lenoir-Rhyne. The ball never seemed to bounce true as both teams fumbled the ball constantly. The Cats were threatening late in the game, but smart base play by Lenoir-Rhyne extinguished Davidson’s chances for victory.

Basketball bluechips signed, not yet finalized ‘Big man’

By BILL WINKENWERDER
Staff Writer

Four top basketball prospects have signed national letters of intent to play at Davidson next year. John Gerdy, Jim Rice, Art Leahy, and Pat Hickert have all signed, and there is a possibility that at least one, and maybe two more players will sign in the future. None of the signers is over 6'7", but the possibility of signing a true “big man” remains.

According to Head Basketball Coach Bo Brickels, this year’s basketball recruits “could be the best group of players to be recruited at Davidson since I’ve been here.” With the recruiting season coming to a close, Brickels is hopeful that this group will help Davidson return to national prominence following last season’s disastrous 7-19 record, the worst in nearly 15 years.

Brickels indicated that the incoming group of freshmen show great promise for at least three different reasons:
1) “They possess great credentials.” All four players signed thus far were recruited by top-ranked schools. In addition, each of the four has been named to at least one prominent all-star team.
2) “They are dedicated, hard workers who’ve shown that they will be willing to sacrifice for the team.”
3) “Each man has a specific talent he can bring to our program. They should be able to work together well.”

The four players signed thus far include John Gerdy, a 6'4" guard from Little Falls, New Jersey. Gerdy ended his senior season with an average of 30.1 points and 10.0 assists per game. He was named first team (All State All Groups) all-state. Also elected to this team were Bill Willoughby, considered by many scouts as the best player in the U.S., and Blake Taylor, brother of pro star Brian Taylor. Gerdy was mentioned on Basketball Weekly’s All-American team, and he finished his prep career as the third leading scorer in New Jersey high school basketball history.

Jim Rice, at 6'5½" from Cincinnati, Ohio, could be the “sleeper” of the group. Rice only averaged 15 points and 14 rebounds a game this winter, which caused many large schools to ignore him. Yet, when he was named to the Midwest Classic All-Star Game in Dayton, he responded by scoring 20 points and grabbing 20 rebounds, which earned him runner-up for MVP. In addition, Rice has been chosen to play for a United States all-star team which will compete in Canada on May 10 against Russian teams.and Canadian national teams. Brickels describes Rice as a “T. J. Peckerak-type player who could really help us defensively.” Art Leahy, a 6’5” forward from San Diego, California, also has signed. Leahy averaged 24.5 points a game his senior year and was named First Team All San Diego County. More importantly, he was chosen player of the year in the county (an award that has previously gone to players such as Bill Walton and Ralph Drollinger). Leahy’s greatest asset is his ability to score. Brickels describes him as “an excellent one-on-one player who likes to go to the basket.”

Pat Hickert, a 6’7”, 200 lb. forward from Clearwater, Florida, the number one ranked team in the state, was also named first team all-state. Known for his aggressiveness and good hands around the basket, Hickert has been termed by his high school coach as the athlete who has more potential than anybody he has ever coached. Conspicuously absent from this group of signees is the bonafide “big man,” an elusive figure in Davidson Basketball History. Tom Dore, a 7’2” center from Chicago, Ill., who visited the campus over Spring Frolics weekend and has made Davidson one of his schools of final consideration, could certainly fill the role. His choice is probably some time away and Brickels has indicated that chances for signing him aren’t exactly super because some of the nation’s top-ranked teams are also very interested in him.

The Wildcats appeared to be a little overconfident after their fantastic win over top-ranked South Carolina 4-3 earlier in the week. Saturday of Spring Frolics, the Wildcats traveled to exciting VMI to add two more victories to their credit in a doubleheader win. Junior Joel Tew pitched the first game as the Cats got by VMI 5-4. Catcher Mark Rodgman was 2 for 2 at the plate as the senior is finally starting to come around with his batting.

The second game was a breeze as sophomore Tim Barr pitched a shutout. Freshman Dale Horner was 3 for 4 at the plate with Rodgman right behind with 2 hits out of four times at bat. VMI has been having its problems this year for they did not win a single conference game. Tuesday’s cremation of Catawba gave several players their opportunities to show what they could do. Home runs were abundant as shortstop Gary Pomaroy smashed two out of the park, and Weicker of course added one also. Even Rodgman, who should have been doing so all year, got his first home run of the season. Senior outfielder Bill ‘Loser’ Todd came close as he bounced one off of the wall to earn himself a double. Catawba’s pitching was thoroughly enjoyed by the hot Wildcats. Junior Dave Wiley contributed an RBI and freshman John McGill showed promise in his second appearance of the season. The Cats will be looking tough next year with a good group of underclassmen.

Davidson clinched the runner-up spot in the Southern Conference with a 10-4 conference record. Winning the conference was the Citadel with 11-3. The Cats are still hopeful for a tournament bid, however. (see CATS, page 10)