December 5, 1975

the davidsonian

Debrah McColl brings
‘energy’ to Davidson

By ANNE PELFREY
Associate Editor

I met Debrah McColl Wednesday afternoon, before she began performing in the 900 room.

What’s she like?

“Oh, she’s like Laura Nero,” several people told me. “She sings and plays the piano. You know the type.”

Yes, I thought I knew the type and I half expected some soulful-eyed woman to slump into the room moaning about “the bad drug scene” and the trials of having an abortion.

But instead, I was surprised by her smile and her quiet energy.

“Almost everything I sing is optimistic. I do a lot of ballads and they have a slow tempo. And I do some songs that are introspective. But I really believe in optimism,” she said.

Yet her hope is not childlike. This petite curly-headed woman has passed through several transitions in her music career. She was a member of three different groups before she came to work as a soloist.

“I was about 17 when I started working with Kindred Spirits. We were a folk group and we sang songs trying to change the world and to make everybody love each other,” she smiled.

“After that, I was with a group called Chakra. That was a rock band. We were supposed to be like a southern Jefferson Airplane, but we really had an L.A. sound.

“That didn’t work and I joined a band called Silverman,” she said.

She worked with Silverman for three years.

“We tried real hard. We busted ass. We were in New York several times and we even had a showcase at a good club. We were presented to Columbia, Atlantic, and Elektra record companies. But if you're presented to the companies by someone they don’t respect, it’s not good,” she said.

So she comments on making a success of the music business in this way:

“It’s real political.”

From what she says, it seems that a performer can learn how to be successful by studying the likes and dislikes of the audiences.

“Let’s face it. When you start being a recording artist, you become a product that’s marketed. But I don’t care about the business part. I’d rather just keep playing my music and having fun. And I just keep thinking, maybe idealistically, that the right producer will hear me and like it,” she said.

And when that happens, don’t expect Debrah McColl to be lost in the “flash” of success.

“My idea of success is to be constantly growing in my music. I don’t cater to anybody except a mature audience,” she said.

But is there anyone who has “made it” without obliging the youth culture’s whims?

“Melissa Manchester is an example. She’s successful, yet she retains the music that is her,” she said.

Debrah McColl uses songs written by other people, but she also uses some of her own material.

“Most of it concerns strong feelings about people, relationships, and things that motivate people. Last night, I was asked what I’d do if I lost my voice. I said that I’d study psychology. I’m really interested in people,” she said.

Dr. Radu Florescu speaks about his “Search for Dracula” Monday in Love Auditorium

Debrah McColl pauses before continuing her rush to the top of the music heap via the Davidson 900 Room

Florescu lectures on
‘Dracula: horror stories

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Executive Editor

A direct descendant of a Romanian family that witnessed the horrors of Count Dracula comes to Davidson December 8. Dr. Radu Florescu, the last of a line that traces itself back to 15th century Romania, will conduct an Open End at 4:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room and give a lecture, “In Search of Dracula,” at 8:00 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Florescu, a professor at Boston University, traces his family back to a Florescu mentioned in some of Count Dracula’s documents. Apparently, this first Florescu was an ally of Dracula’s brother Radu the Handsome. Radu the Handsome dedicated his life to removing his brother from power.

Blood-sucking monster

Count Dracula was not the blood-sucking monster that Bram Stoker wrote about, but it is doubtless that Stoker took the story of the historic Dracula as a basis for his novel.

Dracula was, however, nearly as blood-thirsty as his more famous fictional depiction. He was called Vlad the Impaler by the Romanians of his time because of the gruesome practice he began of impaling enemies of the state on wooden stakes.

Dracula once impaled 20,000 Turks in this way, creating a virtual forest.

Dracula lore tells us that the historical Dracula was a great war hero, praised by his countrymen.

“This was a time of widespread terror and war, but Dracula refined torture to almost an art form,” says Florescu. “Most of his horror came via the stake; hence, the sobriquet, The Impaler. Another time he assembled all the sick and poor in a mansion and put a torch to them to assure that only the rich and healthy would remain in his realm,” continues Florescu.

Florescu suggests that the historical Dracula engaged in some maniacal acts of violence outside the realm of the military. “He’d slit the bellies of his mistresses when they would become pregnant,” noted Florescu.

Dracula was killed outside Bucharest.

Florescu will also discuss the folklore of vampires and how to drive stakes through the hearts of suspected vampires.