The Carnegie Building — Leon Venable

Renovation of this building will be time-consuming and expensive.

Senate Report

The Bavideonian

Inhabitants force expensive renovation of old Carnegie

By BRAD SWALWELL
Staff Writer

Renovation of the Carnegie Building, which presently houses the Union, into a combination guesthouse and dormitory may be a costly process, according to Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze.

Although no plans have been finalized for the refinishing of the building, Meetze speculated that a number of repairs may be undertaken. “There has already been some work done on this problem, but it isn’t good enough if the basement is going to house students. We will have to dig around the whole perimeter of the building and re-waterproof the foundation.”

“The mechanical system is not satisfactory,” said Meetze, referring to the steam radiator heating system in the building. “The building will need a new system. Possibly we will install a combination heating and air conditioning unit, but I’m not sure. With or without the air conditioning, this would be a major improvement in the building.”

“With people living in the building, the wiring will have to be brought up to code standards. These standards are higher than the standards that apply to the building now. These wiring changes could be extensive.”

“The exits will have to be improved to conform with fire codes. People living in the building makes a difference here, also. The present exits will probably be improved, making them accessible to more of the building.”

Meetze indicated that the roof of the building is in good shape, as it was replaced after a recent hail storm. When asked to estimate the cost of these possible repairs, Meetze replied that he was unable to do so at this time. “I hope to meet with Dr. Spencer and then have some definite plans available by the end of the first full week in May. I'll be better able then to estimate costs for the repairs we decide to make.”

Prior to the decision to use the Carnegie Building as a guest house and dormitory, the college considered using it for much-needed space for the Art Department. Presently, the art department operates out of several different buildings scattered across the campus.

Senate delays voting on report

By JOHN WOOD
Staff Writer

In a record-shaking short meeting Tuesday, the SGA Senate, upon hearing committee reports, deferred voting on any until next week. Reports included the Goals Committee meeting, food services, and a resolution on the Quips and Cranks future status in the 40-minute meeting.

The follow-up report on the Goals Committee meeting, which was held last Wednesday, April 23, was given for absent Steve Smith by SGA president John Munce. Munce reported that the Goals Committee had decided on the following priorities: admission policies and academic matters including scholarships, faculty salaries, and institutional facility needs that included the Martin building and the art facilities. The Goals Committee will present a report to the Development Committee of the Board of Trustees this week and then the Development Committee will report to its greater body, the trustees, for their meetings May 1 and 2. Munce remarked that the outcome of the trustee meetings will be known by next week.

A proposed amendment to the By-laws concerning students living in college-owned off-campus housing and their representation on the Residence Hall Council was heard for the first time at this senate meeting. Although only the first reading, the proposal was seconded by Les Taylor. It was presented by Mary Lynne Keener. The proposal is motivated in anticipation of off-campus student grievances; there were no past grievances expressed at the meeting. It was tabled until next week.

A Quips & Cranks resolution was presented by Martin Eakes. This proposal gave several different alternatives which included: 1) that the annual would remain as it now stands, 2) that there would be none at all, 3) that the informative annual material would be combined with a possible pictorial supplement in magazine form later, 4) that the annual would remain as it now stands with subscriptions being optional. The resolution was tabled until next week.

Comments on the Union construction progress were given by Richard Roylance. Roylance said that the union committee was optimistic for a fall opening and emphasized that “it’s a college union (including faculty, staff, and students) not a student union.” At their next meeting this Monday, the committee “will be making significant decisions,” said Roylance.of one room in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building, plus the small area of the Lingle House. Professor of Art Herb Jackson indicated that the Art Department is overcrowded now; the department cannot begin to handle all the people who want to study art. Jackson sees space problems getting worse. “We only began the Art major four years ago,” said Jackson. “People are only now beginning to come to Davidson to study arts.” It appears that the cost of renovating the Carnegie Building for use as a guest house and dormitory will be far greater than the cost of turning the building into Art department space. Jackson indicated that there would be only minor changes needed in the building in order to accommodate the Art department. “Our major need is space, not a beautiful or elaborate building. Basically, all we need to do is paint the walls white, install sinks, and change the lights to incandescent.” None of the major changes Meetze indicated as possibly necessary for use of the building as a guest house would have been necessary for the Art department. “As long as there’s no flood in the basement or a fire from the wiring, there’s no problem. The radiators we could care less about,” said Jackson. Meetze indicated that installing sinks and different lights for the Art department would have been only minor changes. Meetze also indicated that the renovation of the Carnegie Building is evidence of a change in college policy concerning the phasing out of buildings. In the past, a new guest house could have been built fairly inexpensively. “Inflation, the cost of borrowing money, and so forth are making it too expensive to build these days. You can save money by spending to renovate an existing structure.”

Horton bequeathes Davidson $1 million in honor of son

A $5 million estate bequeathed to Davidson College by Mrs. Florence C. Horton of Atlanta, Georgia, will provide funds in excess of $500,000 with restricted endowment for student financial aid. The estate includes a valuable art collection, furniture, and real estate, according to Vice President for Development Craven Williams. “This is one of the most generous, if not the most generous, bequests from an individual ever made to Davidson College,” said Williams. “It has not only the obvious monetary value, but a considerable artistic value as a result of careful collection on the part of the Hortons.” The bequest was made in memory of Mrs. Horton’s son, Gordon, a 1941 graduate of Davidson who died in 1963. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. expressed his appreciation of Mrs. Horton’s gift. “We are very grateful that she has provided so generously for the college in her will,” said Spencer. “Mrs. Horton directed that the college keep a number of her finer pieces as the Gordon Horton Collection,” he added. The downstairs guest bedroom in the president’s house will be furnished with some of her furniture and designated as the Florence Clift Horton room. In addition, the Rare Book room of the E.H. Little Library will house other furniture and a display of jade, bronze, and silver from her collection. “The most prominent concentration of art and furnishings besides these would go in public areas of the college guest house,” said Williams.

Davidsonian Staff

News Editor: MATTHEW COVINGTON
Copy Editors: BILL BARNES, JEFF SICH
Sports Editor: MARK GERGEN
Advertising Manager: CHUCK KENNON
Staff Artists: DAVID TRADER
Assistant Features Editors: KEVIN BRODE
Circulation Managers: STEVE JOHNSON, RICKY BELL, ANNE PEVFREY
Assistant Editors: JEFF NEIKIRK, VAN WILLIAMSON
Contributing Editors: DON BENSON, BRUCE CORSER, LEON VENABLE, BILL ELLETT, JOE DUNCAN
Assistant Production Manager: ANNE FICKLEN
GREG DUNN, WILLIAM KENNON, CHUCK HARMON, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE
Typists: THOM NICOLL, BOB HOWELL, SABRA FAIRES, GUS SUCCOP, JOE MCMILLAN, PEGGY JETTON, ERIC WALKER, VINCE RABIL, CARRIE WILSON, MARK WILENSKY, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Contributors: Scott Buell, Russell Carter, Bob Enright, Cliff Gardner, Ernest Glenn, Pete Goodman, Dave Kitchen, John Lemmon, Bill Lloyd, Laura Moses, Mark Postove, Mike Russ, Carl Schwartz, Charlie Shepherd, Mike Sneed, Frank Stiefel, Carol Watkins, John Wood, and Mark Yow.

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.