April 3, 1975 The Davidsonian

Union plans Spring Frolics Weekend

By ANNE PELFREY
Asst. Features Editor

The Kinks will headline Spring Frolics Weekend, April 25 and 26 according to Union Board President Richard Wassen. The movie "Lady Sings the Blues" will be shown on Friday night, April 25. A group will also be performing in the Rathskellar that evening.

"A beer party with games will be featured outside on one of the fields. There will probably be a band to play during these games on Saturday afternoon," Wassen said. "The Kinks, a British group, will perform in Love Auditorium Saturday night. We’ll also have a dance following the concert," he said.

An outside movie may be shown on the back of Phi Hall, according to Wassen. "We’d put sheets on the building to make a screen and show some movie like 'Frankenstein and the Worm'," he said.

The Union has an agreement that the court does their heavy partying on Friday night, while the Union plans big for Saturday night. "This way we get a lot of participation," Wassen said.

The weekend has no main theme connecting the activities. "The term 'central theme' is a misnomer. It’s best to describe the weekend as unified. There’ll be a lot to do and choices to make. For example, if someone doesn’t want to see a movie, they can go to the Rathskellar," he said.

This is the first major weekend planned by the Union Board under Wassen. "Midwinters had most of the administrative details worked out by the Union Board before us. We learned how to carry plans out that weekend," Wassen said. "Putting on a concert is pretty complicated and you need organization involving manpower and detailed work," he said. "You have to unload for the group, set up, entertain them, and sell tickets."

Spring Frolics will be held during a weekend when several professional tests will be given. "We had almost no choice in planning the date for Spring Frolics. All the other weekends were taken. Alumni weekend comes right before this," said Wassen. "I think those tests will involve only 20 people and I apologize to them," he added.

Remote enough

(Editor’s Note: The following is a reprint from the 1922 Davidson College Catalogue.)

LOCATION

Davidson College is located in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, on the Southern Railway, midway between the towns of Charlotte and Statesville, and twenty-two miles from each. The railroad from Roanoke, Va. and Winston-Salem, N.C., to Charlotte, also passes Davidson. A thriving village of more than a thousand inhabitants, called Davidson, has grown up with the college since its founding in 1836-37. The college is in the famous Piedmont section of the Carolinas.

Three Egging him on

Eppa Rixey juggles eggs as well as basketballs. A college Easter Egg hunt in E.H. Little Library was the scene of the act.noted for its beauty and healthfulness.

RAILROAD FACILITIES

The college is easy of access, having six regular passenger trains a day, each carrying mail, and making close connections at Charlotte, Mooresville, Statesville, and Barber Junction for all points north, south, east, or west. It has also local and long-distance telephones, express and telegraph facilities, etc.

SAFEGUARDS

The location insures health, being on the line of the highest ground between the Yadkin and the Catawba, nine hundred feet above sea level. It is sufficiently remote from larger cities or towns to escape their temptations and excitements. Few places are so free from temptations to vice and extravagance.

SOCIAL ADVANTAGE

Few villages of the same size furnish equal social advantages. The Faculty and the villagers alike do all in their power to give the students a home-life.

CHARACTER OF STUDENT BODY

It is not too much to say that the student body at Davidson is unique among institutions of learning. It is the enthusiastic testimony of practically all students coming to Davidson from other institutions that the moral atmosphere is strikingly different from anything they had known before. The habits and traditions of the college are all in favor of purity, sobriety, and gentlemanly conduct. The students are a picked body of men, representing the finest home training of the South. Probably two-thirds of them are the sons of church officials, representing every state in the South. On the average, more than nineteen out of every twenty are themselves professing Christians, and one in every five has chosen the ministry of the Gospel as his life’s work. It is not too much to say, then, that the Davidson student body fairly represents the flower of Southern culture and home training. To spend the four formative years of college life among such associates, to select one’s lifelong circle of college friends from such companions, is an inestimable privilege. Those can best appreciate it who know from long college experience the irresistible molding force of campus sentiment and tradition on the immature, plastic, hero-worshiping boy, exposed for the first time to its contagious fascination.

Let it be distinctly understood that no claim is made that there are no bad boys at Davidson. The authorities sorrowfully admit that it seems impossible to gather together five hundred young men, all of whom should be pure-minded, upright, and honorable. Even at Davidson, a young man, if he will, can find undesirable associates. Yet this class is small, uninfluential, and opposed by campus habits and ideals. Its members are rigorously eliminated by the Faculty as soon as their true character is discovered.

STUDENT SELF-GOVERNMENT

The honor system began at Davidson early in its history. The students themselves are its sternest guardians and executors. It is in these latter times enforced through the Student Council.

PHI BETA KAPPA | GAMMA of NORTH CAROLINA
Davidson, North Carolina 28036

ELECTED TO MEMBERSHIP
March 25, 1975

Billy Paul Lynn
Jack Edward Linard
Robert George Lautensack Jr.
Michael Edward Mahla
William James Newton Jr.
Thomas Eugene Nicoll
Herbert Dwight Page
Shaul Murad Saddick
Richard Lewis Smith
Francis James Townsend III
Eric Clark Walker
Michael Dennis Whalen
Jack Hutchins White
Dale Christopher Young