December 12, 1975

The Davidsonian

Baskin, Palmer seek SGA presidency

By STEPHEN BELL
Senior News Editor

Juniors Bo Baskin and Bob Palmer contend this week for the SGA presidency, both bringing backgrounds contrasting with the traditional
mold of recent SGA presidents. Both Baskin and Palmer come from Southern states somewhat distant from North Carolina. Baskin’s hometown
is Midland, Texas; Palmer hails from Pensacola, Florida. Baskin is a national member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity; Palmer is
a member of SAE. Neither of them feel that fraternity membership has much bearing on their campaigns, however.

Baskin’s record shows one year of service in the SGA Senate. Last December he was elected Senator and president of
the Class of ’77. Since then he has served on the Student Conduct Council and the Trustee Governance Committee. Baskin
is chairman of the Senate’s Power committee, and he led the ad-hoc Slater committee which proposed the ARA mini-plan last
year.

Influential positions

Outgoing president John Munce has worked closely with Baskin and has given him many of the more influential offices—just as
Blain Butner did with Munce before him, and Bo Phillips with Butner before him.

Palmer has not been a member of the Senate this year, but he still has more service in the Senate
than Baskin. Palmer was a dorm senator for all of his freshman year and some of his sophomore year. He
has served on the faculty’s Pre-Law committee. Palmer cites his main achievements in office as his work under Baskin in
the ad-hoc Slater committee, and the inquiry into the laundry he launched in his freshman year. The laundry inquiry, he
thinks, was effective in polling student opinion, but he said that his efforts may have backfired in one respect. “I
suggested that there should be some equality in the system.” The next year the laundry fee was made compulsory for
the women students as well as for the men.

Palmer thinks the important factor of this election lies elsewhere. “I think I am more realistic than Bo about the
potential for leadership in the job of president, and I think I can make the SGA Senate more responsive to
the students’ needs than Bo can.

“My conception of the job of president and the role of the Senate is different from what it has been
in the past several years.

“I think the Senate at Davidson should be a practical organization concerned with the practical needs of the students: such
as the laundry, social life, and the possibility of a housing shortage which the school still doesn’t seem to want
to admit.

“This is more realistic than being concerned with the problems that the administration deals with, like censorship and Title IX
coeducation problems.

“The Davidson SGA cannot demand and reasonably expect to see changes in the policies that are determined by the trustees
and administration.”

Palmer thus takes issue with the pattern of recent SGA presidential leadership. Palmer says of outgoing president John Munce, “I
think he woke a lot of people with the issues he brought up, but he could have done some things
differently, and I will do some things differently.

“I think the Senate spent too much time talking about problems that they had no control over, like the clinical
psychology program.”

Baskin disagrees. “Students may not have much authority written down, but they do have a lot of power to influence
the people in authority.

“If we can get senators and students to lobby with the powers that be, then we will have a powerful
force.

“I have a lot of respect for John Munce. John’s brought some dynamism to the Senate. He has tremendous energy,
and many times he has done things he should have delegated to others.

“I would see my role as more of an administrator, of bringing more people into the Senate. I would delegate
more authority.”

Baskin sees traditional responsibilities for the Senate, responsibilities broader than those Palmer advocates. “The Senate has two roles. The housekeeping
is one, like the swimming pool hassle, or the dumpsters next to Bailey. But the other role, with the one-shot
projects,includes getting an acceptable student Bill of Rights and College Constitution. I would like to put out a special report
on student life at Davidson. PALMER: Students sometimes feel victimized. I would like to know if the school is doing
something wrong. And I’d like to put out a newsletter, telling people what’s going on.” Obviously, neither of the candidates
is likely to lead students in an occupation of Dr. Spencer’s office—at least, not without an appointment.

Baskin and Palmer diverge on the issue of eating house self-selection, despite the fact that both of them are members
of national fraternities. Said Baskin, “There would be less dissatisfaction with self-selection if it weren't for the overcrowding now on
the court. But I’m not sure the more people you have, the more need for (house) selectivity. I would not
say ‘Let’s go to selectivity.’

“You have to look at it historically. Self-selection, by the students, was instituted to make it a buyer’s market. It
opened social opportunities to many who were being excluded.”

Fraternity selectivity

Palmer disagreed. “I am in favor of the fraternities having the selectivity, but whatever policy the school is going to
adopt should be enforced. Whatever the policy is now, there’s little enforcement, and the fraternities still have a lot of
freedom.”

On coeducation, Baskin commented, “I don’t think Davidson was really ready to go co-ed. A lot of people treated the
women differently from the other students. For example, as far as women’s athletics is concerned, Title IX has become a
problem.

“But I think Davidson is getting better. And I would like to see the admission standards changed to where the
students are admitted by virtue of their merit rather than their sex.”

Palmer indicated that coeducation “has worked out well. The problems at the beginning were caused by lack of planning by
the school. If I had been around when it came up five years ago, I would have been for coeducation.”

Thompson defends international education

(Continued from page 1)

... arranging exchange programs and facilitating the necessities of going abroad. “We're not a travel agency here, though. We rely
heavily on faculty know-how for the success of the program,” she said.

Thompson indicated the collection of catalogues and information available on other schools’ programs as evidence of the IEO’s efforts to
point out other programs to Davidson students. The entire foreign study program, including the Office of International Education, is being
evaluated presently by a committee chaired by Dr. Lois Kemp, Chairwoman of the Spanish Department.

“We evaluate each of the programs with three tools. First, we get a report from the faculty director of each
program. Second, we send a questionnaire to each participant. Third, we have a face-to-face meeting with as many returnees as
possible,” said Kemp. “Two people from the committee and one faculty member not associated with the program then write a
report,” said Kemp.

Kemp criticized the turnover in Directors of the IEO. “Obviously, this causes a serious lack of continuity. It takes about
a year to get really experienced in the job, so more responsibility has fallen on the committee” of faculty directors.

International desk: Thompson and Ghigo confer on educational experiences abroad.

Another function of the IEO is to serve the needs of foreign students studying at Davidson. Three international students, Hisako
Shingu of Japan, Bertil Axelsson of Sweden, and Ernst Berning of Germany, commented on their experiences at Davidson. A common
complaint of the three was lack of knowledge about courses. “All we really knew about the courses was what was
in the bulletin,” said Axelsson. “None of us had sufficient time to get opinions or advice concerning course selection.”

“I think that for future international students, the current students should write something about the personal experiences, and this should
be made available to those interested in coming here,” said Berning.

Berning complained of a lack of understanding by people associated with the IEO of the adjustment problems international students face
at Davidson. “They (the IEO) take the everyday things for granted. The officers often can’t see the problems we have
because they are minor, but annoying,” he said.
