January 16, 1975

The Davidsonian

Three Board Ponders Communication Void

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
News Editor

The authority of ownership, management, and control of Davidson College rests with its Board of Trustees. These people decide the policy and direction that the college takes in areas of student life, finance and development, athletics, and education. Yet few students have any contact with these members who stand at the top of the power structure of Davidson College.

“Students know less about the trustees and how they operate than the trustees know about the students,” said SGA President Blain B. Butner. “The only direct contact that trustees have with students is the SGA reception held the night before each trustee meeting. We often have three-fourths to two-thirds of the trustees in attendance at these meetings, and if the issues they are planning to discuss are big—like coeducation a few years ago—this contact can be invaluable,” said Butner.

Butner indicated that discussions were usually honest and meaningful, but probably had little effect on trustee voting decisions.

Superficial Contact

“Students are pretty outspoken and say pretty much what’s on their minds, but as far as decisions are concerned, this contact is pretty superficial,” said Butner. “Most trustees have made up their minds before the reception as to how they will vote the next day. Two hundred students talking the night before isn’t going to change much.

“The contact is minuscule, I would say. Students don’t know the trustees. How could they?”

Chairman of the Development Committee William A. White Jr. expressed interest in further contact with students.

Climbing into the Cockpit

“I know a lot of students... well, not a lot of students, but many students, because I live in Charlotte. I would like to know more students and more of what students were thinking, but there is no way to climb into the cockpit of students’ minds,” White said.

Vice Chairman of the Student Life and Health Committee Charles R. Carter also pointed to the need for increased student involvement with the Board of Trustees. “We don’t have enough student representation. I would like to see that changed. We need more student representation than faculty representation. The faculty are employees,” Carter said.

Mary Bittle Duke Semans, the first woman to serve as a member of the board, compared student-trustee relationships at Duke University, where she is also a trustee, with those at Davidson. “At Duke, some students come to non-executive meetings of the board on subjects of interest to them. It is good for trustees to get filled in as to what is most important on students’ minds.

“At Duke, we are constantly in touch with the desires of the students,” said Semans.

“The point at which there is contact is the point at which the faculty committees meet with trustee committees. These campus committees are established in parallel with trustee committees,” said College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. “They are not uninformed.”

“We send trustees news releases, The Davidsonian, the Update, a catalogue, whatever. We send them all of the informative materials from here. They are not uninformed,” continued Spencer.

Hall Predicts Loosened Tenure Rule

By MARK DEATON
Editor

“The most important thing about a person is what that person believes,” said Chairman of the Davidson Board of Trustees Warner L. Hall. “I lived in Hitler’s Germany, and I came to believe that unalterably,” he said. “Are you expendable or are you a person of worth as a child of God? It makes a heck of a lot of difference what you think about man.”

Hall sees education at Davidson as compared with non-Church-related schools as learning within the context of Christianity. “I’m not talking about physics professors preaching sermons,” said Hall, “but I think Davidson does offer two things. It seeks to offer to students an awareness of Christianity on an adult level so we can provide the world with informed Christians. And we have men who start from the Christian point of view and that understanding of the world teaching within this set of values.”

Yet Hall sees the Board of Trustees loosening the need for faculty tenure in regard to religious affiliation. “Under extraordinary circumstances, I think we can have professors who are non-Christians here, as long as they are sympathetic to and cognizant of those values,” Hall maintained.

Several Board members have expressed interest in taking further steps toward facilitating communication with students. This group, ultimately responsible for ensuring that Davidson is offering a high quality of cognitive and emotional educational experiences, is receiving little response from the students for whom Davidson exists.

“I think the Board of Trustees see Davidson in that light. Our major concern has been to be a servant of a particular area and a particular church.” Although Hall admitted that the student body had much...To gain from a program recruiting students outside of the South, he said, "I think we have a pretty strong student body, but we may need a little seasoning." He felt that plans for bringing scholars from Britain and other European nations "brings a different slant" to ideas discussed at Davidson. Hall compared the present student body with those of the sixties. "I don’t think I know the mood of the students that well. My impression is that the present student body is a little less violent in its reaction to life than the students of the sixties."

"I don’t think students today are like the students of the fifties. They were not concerned with much of anything. I think there is a genuine concern among Davidson students today, and I sense that as a liberal rather than a conservative," Hall said.

"I think we have a very competent board. They have been most interested in Davidson and aware of their responsibilities."

100 Percent Attendance

"We have one of the best records of trustee attendance and participation in the country. We had a meeting last year where every member was here. We had 100 percent attendance. Admittedly that is rare, I can never remember it happening here before, but we normally get 90 percent attendance," said Spencer.

The trustees hold a regular annual meeting at the college in April, May, or June of the year, on a day selected by the board chairman, to elect officers and to transact business. Also, the trustees hold a regular meeting in the fall, at the call of the chairman, and other meetings when called by the chairman or when requested in writing by eight trustees. At these meetings, college policy is described and planned.

The composition of the Board of Trustees is complex. Forty-three percent of the trustees now serving are either major corporation executives or chairpersons for large foundations. "I think we could find a place at Davidson for such men. I think such a policy will likely be enacted at the next meeting of the board," Hall said.

Hall predicted no drastic changes in policy within the next few years. "I think Davidson will probably continue the kind of emphasis it’s had. I don’t know of any major changes pending in policy," Hall said. The board chairman maintained that Davidson was primarily a Southern school and would probably remain so.

Twenty-four percent are ministers, seminary professors, or presbytery officers. Twenty-four percent are lawyers, doctors, or in some way involved with judicial or medical work.

Correcting Over-balances

"The present composition is accidental. We try to correct over-balances with our eight at-large trusteeships," said Davidson. "Basically the trustees make college policy and the administration carries it out. Our greatest function is as a resource for the administration through our ideas and work in the field of policymaking," said White.

The Making of the President

The trustees have the responsibility of hiring and firing the president of the college. The president works closely with the board in some aspects of policymaking and it is the president who must execute policy decisions. "The board tries to control broad policy. Most policy is long range, and in that sense, much of the long-range control of the college lies with the Board of Trustees. Most proposals of policy come from the president. These ideas often come to the president from spokesmen of student committees. The setting of policy is a joint effort of the president and the board. The actual application of policy is the business of the office of the president," said Walter L. Lingle Jr., retired Board Chairman.

The members of the board are selected for terms of four years. A trustee who has served three consecutive terms cannot be re-elected until one year has expired after his third full term. Twenty-two trustees are elected by, and from members of respective North Carolina Presbyteries. The number selected from each presbytery depends on the size of that presbytery. However, each presbytery is allocated at least one of the twenty-two memberships. Eight members of the board are elected by the trustees themselves, and the college by-laws stipulate that at least four of these must be alumni. "As in the case of all trustees, they must meet the basic criteria outlined in the college by-laws. The basic duty of any trustee is to broaden the talents and perspectives of the Board of Trustees, to give something of purpose to the school."

Not Provincial

"Davidson College is a great school, not a provincial school with a narrow view. It needs men of many talents. We search throughout the year for people we think are needed to fill positions with the board. The selection of Semans was, for example, a purposeful attempt to get a woman on the board," said Chairman of the Trustees Nominating Committee Don Davidson.

(See TRUSTEES, page 5)