the davidsonian October 31, 1975

Searches for energy saving

Power consumption proves ‘a real headache’

By CHARLES KENNON
Staff Writer

In the face of what could be a long cruel winter, Davidson College has acted to minimize the effects of
any possible energy crisis. “In the last five years the College’s energy costs have more than doubled,” according to Director
of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze, Jr. “Now energy policy and the budget go hand in hand. In addition
to increases in fuel and electricity rates, we have had substantial rises in our energy consumption,” Meetze continued.

He cited the E. H. Little Library and the use of more lighting around the campus as being responsible for
most of the increase in the college’s electric bill. “As a general statement, the new library is a large increase—an
increase in overall load and hours of operation,” said Meetze. “But that isn’t the whole picture. The lighting in the
library is designed to heat the building. So there isn’t a larger demand on the steam plant, and that’s a
savings. It’s at the cost of the power bill but it’s a savings during the winter.”

According to Meetze, the new union hasn’t been a major new expense, “because there has been little additional operating cost
over its days as a library. The air-conditioning was already there and other costs, such as lighting, are about the
same.”

Over the past several years, Davidson College has installed new lights to better illuminate the campus at night. This has
added to the electric bill but Meetze explained that the college kept them from costing much more. “We bought a
large number of lights at a good price and then we had our own people install them. We put them
in at half the normal cost of a contractor. Also, we have low-level lighting that is both attractive and less
expensive,” he said.

Meetze admitted that “power consumption is a real headache.” He indicated that the school is embarking on a long process
of searching for ways to cut that consumption. “We're spending the bigger part of this year investigating methods of reducing
power usage and costs. We’re looking at every building, especially the library, to see if we can cut the number
of foot-candles used there. We've cut out some of the lighting on Richardson Plaza.

“Now we are looking into a new sodium-filled lamp made by General Electric. It gives off an orange glow and
is more efficient than the normal mercury vapor lamps. We are going to start metering individual buildings on campus, something
not now done. I’d like to see students help study ways to get better use from Chambers. We can’t turn
it off with the language lab, computer, and study rooms but I’m sure something can be done.”

---

XMAS IN EUROPE. Call or write Educational Flights of N.C. Inc; Box 5385, University Station; Raleigh, N.C. 27607 919-833-2111

---

Energy to burn: E.H. Little Library calls for drastic increase in college electricity bill.done to use it more efficiently. “For
areas on campus not used too often, I’d like to see a four-hours-on, four-hours-off power schedule adopted. There are a
lot of little things we might do that could add up to substantial savings. Now we are trying to get
information so if the situation worsens, we can make recommendations to cut expenses,” Meetze reiterated.

Davidson College has made arrangements to replace the current heating fuel, natural gas, with fuel oil for this and coming
winters. Natural gas comes primarily from Texas, and allocations in Eastern states for this winter are going to be cut
by a large percentage. The college had a gas contract that had “interruptible rates,” meaning that the supply can be
cut off. Meetze anticipated this problem and stated that his plans would hopefully “out-guess the future.”

“We will have oil this winter, although dorms will again be rationed. Still, if there is a crisis, this school
won’t close down, and I’m confident for next year despite the tenuousness of our nation’s oil supplies.”

Meetze and his staff have had meetings with representatives of Duke Power Company to get electrical distribution points moved nearer
to campus. This would cut the line loss, or power lost from the process of transferring the voltage through various
transformers. It would also facilitate the metering of individual buildings to see if some areas are consuming a disproportionate amount
of power.

The energy situation has forced a slow-down of certain projects around campus, including that of air-conditioning more dormitories.

“We’ve asked for money to do this, and the Duke Foundation is one possible source, but we haven’t decided when
we’ll go ahead if the money comes. We haven’t decided which dorm to air-condition, but Duke is a good possibility.”

Meetze explained that he was conducting some long-range planning for possible alternative sources of power. He is working with members
of the physical plant on a research project involving solar panels.

“I’m running a study of existing hardware and methods of improving it. There are a lot of flat roofs on
campus, especially the library, and solar energy could be utilized to heat hot water there, among other things. I’d like
to be ready to implement a profitable system if the situation warrants and technology develops adequately. We don’t have any
solar panels now, but I know some firms that sell glass, and it is conceivable that we could build our
own,” he concluded.

... suspension (continued from page 1)

suspension by either the president or the trustees while allowing the board sufficient time to conduct a thorough review. Spencer
expressed optimism that the amendment would be approved at the February meeting and the trustee by-laws thus brought into harmony
with the College Constitution.

Friday, Oct. 31
8 & 10:30 P.M.
D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
PLAY MISTY FOR ME
Love: $1.00
