May 9, 1975

The Davidsonian

Eleven

Humanities confronts IMAC: st pe

By PAUL BANTA and ALAN EDMUNDS

This column deals with one of the most bizarre and unexpected phenomena ever to occur here at Davidson, Joe Duncan leading a Humanities discussion. Maybe, to some of you freshmen, this doesn’t seem strange, for every Humes student is expected to give of himself in this fashion. But what we’re dealing with is not the normal Humanities student, no, for the beloved Y.B. is more than just a Humes student, he is an institution.

Many times has a bored Humes student looked across the discussion table and seen that smiling face which masks a malignant disregard for Humanities. Be wary of this friendly and lovable sort, for he’s selling the lowest vice; pure, uncut underachievement. If infected with his odious form of poison, the victim sinks into an inescapable morass, from which recovery is unlikely, the withdrawal pains insurmountable.

Almost without warning, Duncan appears in Humes discussion, armed not with consumed great works or reams of notes, but with a saber-like wit, and a vocabulary of curse words as awesome as Buckley’s polysyllabic vocabulary. Largely unappreciated by pompous professors and limp library rats, Duncan adds a unique flair and color to any discussion, but to ask this man, this tower of disrespect, to lead a discussion is akin to asking Willie Sutton to guard your bank or asking Marv Throneberry to be a defensive replacement at first. His installation as discussion leader seems to beg for the destruction of the group as an academic entity.

Attention must be paid. When great cities fall, and mighty civilizations crumble, there are always those brave few who stay behind, disregarding their own safety to record for posterity the collapse of the old guard. Like Ernest Hemingway in Spain, or Ed Bradley in Saigon, driving the golden spike or even Davidson’s own Dr. McGeachy, who recorded the last days of Pompeii and the Roman defeat at Adrianople; inspired by the bravery of these men, I took it upon myself to attend this apparent conflict between an immovable object and an irresistible force.

But the memory of the Young Buck lingers on, and somewhere in the cosmos his ethereal spirit is happy, knowing that down here some people were still practicing his favorite avocation, IMAC sports. The crowning glory of the IMAC season, the track meet, was held this week. Davidson’s amateurs presented a challenge to the U.S. Olympic Committee, for even if our sprinters aren’t fast enough to win, they are at least smart enough to show up on time.

The Delts were favored to win the team crown, and so they did. Because of this, most of the attention was directed to the individual championships. Chris Young took the 100 in an impressive 10.4. He also captured the 220, but most of the eyes were on Howard Payne and John Swanson, the anti-semitic duo, and their $1, winner-take-nothing showdown, which Swanson won with a 26.2, impressive for a left-fielder with the range of a drowsy woolly mammoth. The 120 and 220 hurdles were dominated by John Perry, the 440 by Rick Miller, and the 880 was won by Bob Jacobs with a rather pedestrian 2:16. Jesse Smith won the mile with a 4:54, Pete Goodman casting further aspersions upon the 880 field. The fieldevents were dominated by Big Bill Smith and all the Delts. “All in all it was a great day for IMAC as the level of competition was surprisingly high; and all the Dr. Delané Meriweathers, the Walter Mitty of track, of Davidson. IMAC softball demonstrated its Christian commitment by adhering to Matthew 5:5: ‘Blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the earth.’ The record put it all together and damned the Beavers 6-3, eliminating the Eagers. Penthouse knelt their dorm mates and then upset the Thi’s in the double elimination tourney. The SPE’s rubbed the Thi’s 10-8, thus squelching the hopes of the preseason favorites. Penthouse has tradition on their side; they come from the same floor, 4th Richardson, which engendered the Beavers, last year’s Cinderella team. They also beat the top three seeded teams in the double elimination as do the SAR and Derbies. The Browns remain undefeated. The SPE’s and Cleveland Gozinyas each have one loss, but still figure prominently. After last week’s Apocalypse, we...

This Friday afternoon at 2 p.m. the second running of “the 24-hours of Davidson” will begin. A group of 10 Davidson students will alternate running one-mile intervals in a continuous 24-hour relay. Their purpose is twofold: to try to break the 237-mile state relay record set here two years ago, and to raise money for the Ada Jenkins Community Center located here in Davidson. The group, sponsored by the Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity, hopes to collect money pledged by students and businesses for the mileage they complete. Seven runners return from the 1973 Mile Cats including Ricky Bell, Bob Lautensack, Ricky Deal, Mark Connors, Bill Cole, Chuck Sudetic, and Mark Postove. The three newcomers are Coty Pickney, Dick Boehner, and Zack Murrell. Of the ten, only Boehner and Murrell have never participated in a 24-hour relay, but both were on the cross-country team and should have no trouble handling the distance.

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

Anyone interested in pledging money for the run is encouraged to do so by stopping at any of the tables set up on campus (at the post office and in Chambers), or by calling a pledge in to Grey House. Members of APO will be around the following week to collect the pledges. “We want as many students as possible to come out to the track on Friday and Saturday. It helps us very much to have people there to support us,” said one member of the group. A table will be set up at the track during the relay for further pledges by interested persons. “We hope everyone will contribute and come out to see their money being earned, and even jog a few laps with us if they want.”

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9-7, Wed. 9-12, Sun. 9:30-10:30
Davidson, N.C.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics - Russell Stover Candies
131 N. Main St.

CURE “TERM PAPER FRIGHT” WITH ERRORITE! AT YOUR CAMPUS STORE