the davidsonian - November 14, 1975

Domestic Wildcat: This wildcat drawing by Ralph McDonald may be the next Davidson symbol. -Leon Venable

Spencer stalls negotiations about new wildcat emblem
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Executive Editor

Negotiations are being considered to commission wildlife artist Ralph McDonald to create a wildcat emblem which would represent Davidson College
and become the school’s symbol. These negotiations are at a standstill now because of what college President Samuel R. Spencer
Jr. calls “the chance that we might be putting the college in an unethical position.”

The idea to get one symbol for the entire school began with the Alumni Office last spring when then Alumni
Director Howard Arbuckle was investigating the chances of buying the rights to the University of Kentucky wildcat symbol. The Alumni
Office wanted a wildcat for various publications. Obtaining rights to the Kentucky wildcat was seen as too expensive. The rights
would have cost the college $3500. It was at this point that Assistant Director Thomas Couch suggested that an artist
be found to create a wildcat.

“It had gotten to the place that every Tom, Dick, and Harry had come up with his own wildcat. The
Athletic Department, the Alumni Office, everybody had his own wildcat. The bookstore even got its way...”

a couple of Senate votes to retain ‘incomplete’
By STEVEN BELL
Staff Writer

The SGA Senate Tuesday called on the faculty Educational Policy Committee (EPC) to retain the basic procedure for completing “Incomplete”
grades. Bob Husbands, one of the student representatives on the faculty’s Educational Policy Committee, reported that Registrar Richard C. Burts
has requested that deadlines for finishing the incomplete work of one semester be established in the term immediately following.

As it stands now, an “Incomplete” received in any term need not be resolved until the end of the following
summer. According to Husbands, Burts has complained that almost all of the “Incompletes” are put off until the summer deadline,
creating a “bureaucratic nightmare.” Burts has claimed that of the 10-12,000 grades given each year, 1000-1500 are “Incomplete” at first:
too many for the Registrar’s office to cope with during those last two weeks before the beginning of the next
school year.

However, many senators took issue with the proposals of the EPC that deadlines for finishing incomplete work be established in
the middle of the following term to relieve the summer burden. Senator Bo Baskin argued that “the August 20 deadline
is very flexible for students and faculty. This flexibility should be maintained.” Baskin moved that the summer deadline be abbreviated
“only by the amount of time Burts needs to process the grades.” Baskin’s motion passed 19-0, with one abstention.

In other business Tuesday night, the Senate discussed the part of the proposed College Constitution that permits the president of
the college to order an emergency suspension of any student activity at his own discretion. The trustees want the power
to review any such action of the president. In a motion proposed by SGA President John Munce, the Senate proposed
that such a review be conducted within 14 days of the suspension. Said Munce, “I don’t know if this is
controversial or not at this point. It seems to me that it allays the fears of the trustees that they...”

HAPPY HOURS
THURSDAY NIGHTS 8:30 - 11
FRIDAY AFTERNOONS 2 - 6
Pease House

FOR FEMALE PERSONS DURING THURSDAY’S HAPPY HOUR

MBA PROGRAM
Tulane University
New Orleans, La
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
Director of Admissions Will Be On Campus
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18
For interviews, Contact Placement Officemight not be able to act in time. “I would argue that a Board of Trustees
that can’t decide an issue in 14 days needs to reconsider its whole way of doing business.” In still more
business, the SGA amended the Residence Hall Council By-Laws to omit the references to (and thus, the existence of) RHC
class representatives. Also, the Senate approved a charter for the Biology Club. Absent from the meeting were senators DiCenzo, Kunkleman,
McMillan (2), and Weber (2).

Sadler wins election

Davidson Mayor Tom S. Sadler was unopposed for a fourth term in town elections held November 4. Town residents awarded
him 274 votes of confidence in his bid. For the Office of Town Commissioner, the race was interesting in light
of the Commissioner’s recent decision to sell the town’s electrical system to Duke Power.

The voters apparently approved of the Commissioner’s actions as all four incumbents were reelected. Joe G. McClain was high vote
getter with 258 votes, Nancy McCormac received 255 votes, H. Burlington Naramore 237, and Grover C. Meetze, 228. William B.
Mayhew outpolled Earl Lawrimore, 218 to 213, to complete the Commission.

MITCHEM OPTICIANS
* PRESCRIPTIONS FILLED
* GLASSES REPAIRED
* LENSES DUPLICATED
* LAB ON PREMISES
CALL 663-3942
206 N. MAIN
MOORESVILLE
TRYON MALL
CHARLOTTE

Mickey Mouse wildcats,” said Couch. “I wanted a wildcat that would be good looking, not vicious looking, but would look
like a wildcat, not some cartoon,” continued Couch. McDonald has submitted to the college a pencil drawing of a wildcat.
If the basic design was fairly good, McDonald was willing to produce a watercolor entitled “The Davidson Wildcat” which the
college would buy. Prints of this watercolor would then be made. These too would be purchased by the college and
sold to parents, students, and friends. The contract which is now drawn up and sitting in Couch’s office calls for
the college to buy 1250 prints of the original. The college would then have the option to use the wildcat
in any way it wanted. The wildcat design was displayed during Parents weekend to students and parents. The response was
positive, according to Couch.

“We’ve got a contract to sign. There seem to be some legal ramifications as to whether it is a print
or a lithograph that we would be buying. Lithograph, print, I don’t care what it is, I just want a
damn wildcat. That’s the only thing that’s got me cranked up,” said Couch.

The “legal ramifications” Couch mentions have to do with the concern Spencer feels that the college would not be able
to sell photographic prints of an original watercolor with a good conscience. “I have put a quietus on the project
for now,” said Spencer. “The only way we could sell originals of the wildcat design would be if they were
stone lithographs. Apparently what we would have to sell under the current arrangement would be prints. I don’t think this
is what we want and I don’t think people would want to buy them. I don’t want to put the
college in an unethical position. It wouldn’t be fair to sell prints of an original. If that’s what we would
have to do, we're not going to do it,” continued Spencer.

For Holiday Season ideas! The Village Store of Davidson, N.C. Brings You a World of Gifts!
