April 5, 1986 The Davidsonian

MacCormac Enters Presidential Race

By WOODWARD and BERNSTEIN
Staff Writers

Dean of the Honors Center Earl R. MacCormac announced at the intermission of the Wednesday Carolina Inn film that he will begin actively seeking the presidency of Davidson College. MacCormac repeated the announcement at the close of the film in order to get some response.

“The College needs desperately a concentrated effort at fund raising. Some forethought must be directed toward our future. I have presented on numerous occasions a five-year plan of development. Yet, they have never taken me seriously. They keep telling me to put up or shut up!”

When asked about the timing of his candidacy, MacCormac said the College’s immediate future would demand a dynamic leader. “I’m the best handball player on campus, you know. Honestly, it really wasn’t my idea to announce, but I just got so excited thinking about it!”

Jean Daughtry piped in that she had always admired Loyce Davis’ desk.

MacCormac feels that his recent appointment to the Board of Directors at First Union Bank demonstrates his familiarity with the financial community. “Reports say the College will need $15 million in the next few years. The money is out there. I could get it.”

A frequent critic of President Samuel R. Spencer, MacCormac said, “I think a President should be tall. By the way, I think white fences are tacky.”

MacCormac contended that his role as dean of the Honors Center has demonstrated his administrative capabilities. “We are now nurturing one of the best young librarians in the country. I think he would make an excellent assistant to the President.”

Other changes would be likely if MacCormac does achieve the Presidency. “The administration is supposed to serve the community. As my good friend Shaw Smith says, I’m not here to build walls; I’m here to move them.

“Besides, if I were President, Nancy and I could run this damn town!”

As president, MacCormac plans to spend one half of his time fund raising and one half on research. MacCormac confided that he plans to give surprise guest lectures in various fields in order to raise the faculty’s morale.

“I have carried Davidson College’s academic reputation long enough. All my students say I’ve given enough to academics. I am tired of low faculty salaries. I want to be an administrator.”

MacCormac pointed out that the College’s reputation is very high when one considers our non-publishing, stagnant faculty. “I think the tenure system aggravates this problem. As President, I could really get dippy departments, like those Mathematics clowns, to get moving.

“The first thing we need to do is to move the Philosophy department to the first floor. I think that Davidson would also have much more class if all publicity releases were henceforth done in metaphors.”

MacCormac feels that he could improve the College’s Christian Commitment. “I think I could bring God back to Davidson. It may take a lot of money, though. Did you know that Spencer never even went to divinity school?”

MacCormac also expressed concern about the energy crisis. “As the financial situation progresses, we may have to rethink our commitment to the Presbyterians. I think in a few years we will see a significant increase in the number of small liberal arts colleges with an Islamic bent.”

MacCormac refused to name an heir to his...position as Dean of the Honors Center. He did volunteer that, “If Ed White and those people can’t turn Spencer Smashes Net Returns from tennis to handball, they might have to go elsewhere.” MacCormac also refused to comment on speculation that plans are being drawn to increase the enrollment of the Honors Center to 800 in case his bid for the Presidency fails. He categorically denied that he had ever thought of moving Davidson to California. When asked how long he planned to stay at Davidson, MacCormac looked bewildered. “I used to think that one could see the world from a departmental chairmanship. I don’t think that is true anymore. Pride is something I pride myself on. I really thought that I was much more impressive than Fred Harris.” (Photo by Ansel Adams)

MacCormac Announces Candidacy

Spencer Wins Tourney With Sleight Backhand

By WILSON HAMSTRING
Staff Writer

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. raised nothing but a few eyebrows Wednesday when he easily won the National Invitational Tennis Tournament For College Presidents and/or Fund Raisers and then refused to accept his prize money. The tournament is co-sponsored each year by the Mudd Foundation and the National Endowment For the Arts, and although the exact purse is kept a secret, it is rumored to be in the neighborhood of enough to remodel a chemistry building and effectively convert a rarely used dining hall into an art gallery.

The refusal of prize money by Spencer caused some indignation among his fellow college presidents. “I wish I could turn down grants like that. He must be sitting on a pile somewhere,” said Queens College President R. Moore Carr. When reached for comment, Spencer answered, slowly and with an assured grin on his face: “Money is tight right now. I didn’t want any.” When pressed further, Spencer said: “I feel that the tennis tournament was not run properly. It was a racket with strings attached.”

Spencer won the tournament with 6-0, 6-0, 6-0 scores in the finals! His serve was devastating, and although it had tremendous power behind it, Spencer’s delivery was sly. An interested bystander, former Vice President of Finance and Development at Davidson, C. David Cornell said, “I knew if anybody ever got tennis and fund-raising together, Spencer would be tough. His love for and dedication to tennis is very great.”

The foundations who sponsored the tournament were a little miffed at Spencer’s refusal. In an effort to maintain good will, however, the foundations agreed to give the money to Spencer’s favorite charity. Tournament Chairman Henry R. Beansworthy said, “We are a new tournament and having our money refused by the first winner was a jolt. We tried to convince him that everybody needs money but he just smiled. He must be sitting on a real pile. We decided to contribute the money to Spencer’s favorite charity but there was really no need to found a national group to lobby for Women’s Suffrage in Congress. We finally gave the money to the Mecklenburg Presbytery. I believe they are going to use it to reclaim Scotland,” continued Beansworthy.

Vice President for Finance for Davidson, Craven E. Williams deplored Spencer’s refusal. “I think we could have used that money. Any money is useful, but that was so much money. I’m still trying to get my bearings and learn about this school though,” said Williams.