Che

Vol. LXIV. No. Twenty-six

Davidsonian

Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

MAY 2, 1975

—Leon Venable

Torn up inside

... so are student patrons

Hattie's burns

Smoke gets in your eyes

Firemen from Davidson, Mount Mourne, Cornelius, and South Iredell contained the blaze once, but later in the evening, a more widespread fire broke out which spelled the end for the tavern.

Conflagration engulfs local legend

By BILL BARNES
Copy Editor

Hattie's Bar and Grill is gutted.

At two-thirty on Sunday morning, a Davidson student stopping to pick up his car at Hattie's noticed smoke coming from a corner of the building. Proprietor Larry Gagen, the Davidson, Mount Mourne, Cornelius, and South Iredell fire departments were soon alerted and on the scene, with members of the Davidson, Mecklenburg, and Iredell police departments.

The blaze was extinguished by four-thirty and resulted in moderate damage, principally to the game room. After consulting insurance agents, the police and fire departments, Gagen, and onlookers left.

Fire flared again about nine-thirty, however, resulting in the return of all save the Iredell firemen. This time the entire building was ablaze, and the firefighters were hard put to drown the blaze.

Police and firemen on the scene found evidence of arson. Shingles paneling the entire building had been soaked in kerosene, particularly where the fire had originally begun. A roll of tar paper behind the building had also been impregnated with kerosene. “Arson’s definite,” said Gagen. “Kerosene was the first thing we smelled when we got there,” added Chief of the Mount Mourne Fire Department Phifer Johnson. “Everybody said the fire looked like it’d been helped along some.”

It seems debatable whether the second blaze was set. Gagen believes that the fire was not completely put out the first time and circulation within the built-up roof fanned the not-quite-extinguished coals into flames.

Phifer, however, feels that the second blaze, too, was deliberate. “You can tell when a fire’s had a little help,” he asserted. “This one did. If a fire’s left to itself it’ll pretty much burn in its own area. But this one looked like it’d had some help.”

Firemen encountered difficulties in entering the flat-roofed structure, as doors were locked and windows nailed shut.

“With a building like that a fire’s almost impossible to put out,” said Phifer. “Under a flat roof it’s got nowhere to go and the roof’ll fall in.”

The fire leaves Larry Gagen without a business and Davidson College without a long-enjoyed and long-convenient tradition. Gagen, who bought Hattie's two and a half years ago from Hattie Bumgarner, said he has “No idea” when, or even if, he will be able to rebuild.

“After putting it out the first time we’d found it only damaged the game room,” he said. “We had the insurance agent down and figured damages at about $5,000 to $6,000. We took a real financial loss after the second fire, though. I’ve got no idea of the total, but it’ll be about $30,000 after insurance.”

“I don’t know if we’re going to be coming back bigger and better than ever, but looking at it realistically I can’t say anything now. I’m still trying to sort everything out.”

Some accessories Gagen would have to replace under reconstruction could cost him as much as ten times the insurance he will receive on them.

Gagen was planning an expansion of the building and had just completed the paperwork for small-business assistance from NCNB when the fire broke out.

Asked who he thought might have set the fire, Gagen replied, “I don’t know. I really don’t have any idea. But over two and a half years I’ve made a lot of enemies. I didn’t think the place was much when I bought it and I oriented my business towards the college.

“There were some people—I can call them rednecks—who got drunk and rowdy and I had to throw them out. People I didn’t want in there I told so.”

“The fire department says it’s impossible to say who did it unless you catch them in the act and even then the judicial process leaves room for second-guessing. Most people get away with it.”

Part of the loss Gagen feels is in the cessation of communication with the college community. “It’s been very satisfying for me,” he said. “We had a good relation with students, what faculty I met, and just people. I’m going to miss the hell out of it.”

Gagen intends to write the Davidson community a letter explaining his feelings about the fire and its repercussions. It will appear in the Davidsonian under letters to the editor.

At Davidson College, reaction to the blaze has been a collected “What the hell are we going to do for the rest of the year?” Perhaps the best answer was given by a passing voice in the hall: “We’ll probably end up driving down and sitting in the ashes for a couple of hours on Thursdays. We sure aren’t going to study.”

But there will be no crowded parking lot at Hattie's Bar and Grill for a good while now. There is only a shell of a building left. The boarded-over windows have been knocked out by firemen’s axes; the doors likewise. Inside, from bar to benches, is a sludge of water, ashes, and half-burnt wood. Pink insulation hangs from the bit of false ceiling which has not collapsed; outside it peeks from under charred shingles.

Surprisingly enough, there are still blackened bottles and cans of Rolling Rock, Budweiser, and Miller High Life in the open fridge. But Hattie's is quiet.

Fireman Pretends To Sample Wares
Comic Relief During Noble Effort To Save Tavern