Two April 24, 1975 Senate Report — Williams Explains Goals Committee — Leon Venable

Meal ticket losses
By MARK GERGEN
Copy Editor

Davidson freshmen are losing $17,329 this year from meal tickets bought and then sold at a lower price, or not sold at all, reported Senator Bo Baskin to the SGA Senate Tuesday night.

In a recent poll run by Baskin, 130 men and 72 women members of the freshman class were asked how many tickets they have sold and for how much. The men lost $6,922 and the women lost $10,420.

“Ron Scott is saying board could push to $1,000 a year,” stated Baskin. Presently all freshmen are required to buy $710 worth of tickets. Baskin added, “What we need now is to think in terms of a long-range solution. The eating houses will not be large enough if the college continues with its plans for expansion.” Baskin warned against using piecemeal approaches to the problem, adding that in the future, for reasons of both efficiency and space, the college may have to go to a centralized dining facility.

In other actions, Bruce Malloy requested and received $200 to help fund the recently created pre-law society. Baskin asked that the Senate reconsider their decision not to send representatives to the National Student Association meeting this summer. Peyton Marshall asked for any students who were interested to get involved in the course evaluation for the student course evaluation handbook. Marshall also stated that they had been unable to obtain the Student Instruction Report data collected by the college during exams. The Senate passed a motion 5-0 that the college delay the opening of classes next year so students have Monday off again. Senators Gutherie, Roylance, and Shewmake were absent.

The Davidsonian

Student confusion surrounds misnamed Goals Committee
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
News Editor

The Davidson College Goals Committee met for the last time Wednesday, April 25. The committee still remains to be convened on May 1st, but that meeting will consist only of a report by the Goals Committee to the Board of Trustees. The May meeting will be a culmination of four months of work by the Goals Committee in grouping college developmental priorities.

“Now that we have had these four meetings, the committee has brought some clear direction and order out of what had appeared to be a chaotically established committee,” said Craven E. Williams, Vice President of Development. “After a long wrestling match with self-identity, the committee has reached a feeling of those who established it. Now the drafting of a report for the trustees is in order. The substance has been agreed upon and the narrative is being prepared to present on May 1 at 8:30,” continued Williams.

Williams indicated that although the committee has lived up entirely to the expectations of those that founded it, that is to group college priorities that had already been discovered in hierarchical form, many people do not understand this. “The first mistake was in the naming of the Goals Committee. To have called it a Goals Committee stimulates images and scopes of responsibility in the minds of students, faculty, and the committee itself which the trustees who formed it did not mean,” said Williams.

Williams suggested that an actual discovery of “goals” to be pursued by the college would require a minimum of 18 months. The Goals Committee, formed only four months ago, was never supposed to define policy. The Goals Committee is responsible for the implementation of solutions to problems and needs that have already been defined. The definition of these needs came about before the Goals Committee was formed. Ten years of self-study provided the material in the form of a self-study report that the Goals Committee has been working from.

“The intention was that they would be an implementation committee and not a goals committee. They were to deal with previously established capital requests that had been presented to the college and decide which of these were to receive the highest priority,” said Williams. “We are not a blue-sky prophetic committee. Our post was far more narrowly conceived in the minds of the trustees and that the only mission of the Goals Committee was to suggest priority groupings. The Goals Committee will advise the trustees on capital priorities for Davidson College on May 1. The Development Committee will thank it for its work.”its advice at that time and dismiss it. IT imagine,” concluded Williams.

Planning committee pledges complete Union by September

By JOHN WOOD
Staff Writer

“The new union will be in business next September; that’s the pledge,” asserted Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith. And that seems to be the general feeling around the college. The union will be moved from the cramped Carnegie building to the remodeled and spacious quarters of the old library or Grey building. Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr., Union Board President Richard Wassen, and Smith all are optimistic for a September opening.

Smith plans to move his own office into the new union along with several other union offices this coming summer. Despite previous talk of finishing the remodeling this spring term, it has now been decided that the union will be finished in “full fashion” for next fall term, according to Smith, so that the union will be completed without any compromise of quality. “We did a smart thing deciding to do it full fashion,” said Smith. “The delay will give us a better union.”

“All the big things are done,” according to Meetze. Most of the paint is there and the painters have started work. The new union will include a snack bar and dining area, several conference rooms, a student lounge, a tavern or clubhouse area, a large game room, arts and crafts facilities, and a number of other rooms and offices.

Decision-making power concerning the new union has been turned over to a union planning committee by College President Samuel R. Spencer. “I think Spencer has taken a great deal of interest,” said Wassen, who is also a committee member. The committee’s interests at this time include the color of the various walls and kinds of furniture and its arrangement. Meetze, Smith, Wassen, the chairperson to the Art Committee of the Union Board, and Co-curricular Committee representative Lucille W. Schneider sit on this committee. “We welcome any input anyone wants to give,” said Smith.

The college has hired an interior designer from a firm in Charlotte to make recommendations to the committee. The budget for the new union remodeling is $440,000. Much of that has already been spent, according to Meetze. He said that there will be enough to complete the union project. “I think a fair deal has been done,” remarked Wassen. He added that the offices are almost finished. The union offices, or “backstage areas” as Smith puts it, will not be as ostentatious as the rest of the sprawling and colorful union will be, according to Smith and Wassen.

“The workmen were ready but we weren’t,” admitted Smith, accounting for some of the delay, but added, “I’m pleased with the progress.” “The main thing is to judge it by whether it’s ready or not,” remarked Smith. He said that the faculty and students should wait and see the union finished; that criticizing now would only slow the process.

Smith called Meetze the “real magician” because he finished the student store in time for last fall term in the face of college staff skepticism. Smith added that all of the new union is Meetze’s design and that a great deal of the budgeted money was saved by college staff constructing their own fixtures. Much of the work on the new union is contracted to the Barger Construction Company with some subcontracted to other private companies.

Davidsonian Staff
News Editor: MATTHEW COVINGTON
Sports Editor: CHUCK KENNON
Assistant Features Editors: STEVE JOHNSON, ANNE PELFREY, VAN WILLIAMSON
Photography Editor: LEON VENABLE
Assistant Production Manager: WILLIAM KENNON
Typists: SABRA FAIRES, PEGGY JETTON, CARRIE WILSON
Copy Editors: BILL BARNES, MARK GERGEN
Staff Artists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL, PATTI SMISSON, BETH WIER
Associate Editors: DON BENSON, BILL ELLET, ANNE FICKLEN, CHUCK HARMON, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP, ERIC WALKER, MARK WILENSKY
Business Manager: JEFF SICH
Advertising Manager: DAVID TRADER
Circulation Managers: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Contributing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, BOB HOWELL, JOE MCMILLAN, VINCE RABIL, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Contributors: Scott Buell, Russell Carter, Bob Enright, Cliff Gardner, Ernest Glenn, Pete Goodman, Dave Kitchen, John Lemmon, Bill Lloyd, Laura Moses, Mark Postove, Mike Russ, Carl Schwartz, Charlie Shepherd, Mike Sneed, Frank Stiefel, Carel Watkins, John Wood, and Mark Yow.

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.