the davidsonian

December 5, 1975

By ANDREW LAMAS
Senior News Editor

North Carolina Governor James E. Holshouser Jr. took a break from his busy schedule here Monday to watch his alma mater in its annual basketball competition with Wofford College.

“You know I was fortunate to make it to the opener tonight. We were in the area to open the new eight-mile stretch of Interstate 77 this afternoon,” remarked the Governor.

This new section of the Interstate extends from the Northwest Expressway to Reames Road (one road north of North Mecklenburg High School).

Governor Holshouser visits students in the press box

“We look to the completion of I-77 by the spring and expect the highway to stretch from South Carolina to Virginia by late 1976 or early 1977,” stated Holshouser.

In addition to his duties as Governor, Holshouser has assumed the responsibilities of managing President Gerald Ford’s southeastern campaign for the presidency.

“I was happy to take on this position. I think the President is the right man for the job. I think the country’s very fortunate that he was the man in the Vice-President’s office” when former President Richard Nixon resigned.

Holshouser’s campaign responsibilities cover “all the southeastern states, including Oklahoma and excluding Florida. The Florida organization was set up prior to my appointment, but I still plan to get down there a time or two.”

The Governor was critical of the several announced Democratic presidential candidates. “You don’t get a feeling for any strong sense of momentum going for any of them. They (the Democratic Party) don’t have a candidate who’s captured the imagination of the electorate.

“We do. The people know the President is open and candid. He has restored public faith in the White House.”

Holshouser, speaking of two of the Democratic candidates, said, “I don’t think Sanford has yet established credibility among constituents. Carter began with the same problem but is starting to overcome that.”

The Governor also remarked that he did not view the candidacy of Ronald Reagan as a serious threat to the President in his bid for re-election.

“In 1974 less than forty percent of the people went to the polls. I’m scared to death we may give up.

“Yet I’m encouraged when I look at many of our nation’s young adults. I’m interested in encouraging more young people to take an interest in politics and get involved.

“It’s amazing how many young people we’ve been able to get involved. Something’s got to be done!”

Foul dumpsters block court pathway

By GIL CUTHBERTSON
Staff Writer

An object of concern for students walking between Bailey and Richards Houses has been the placement of dumpster trash containers near the sidewalk to Patterson Court.

Ron Scott, director of ARA Food Services, is upset about the dumpsters.

“That thing stinks, and I don’t like it one bit,” said Scott. “The college brought these things in here without consulting me and the dumpsters are causing problems.

“They stink because they need to be cleaned. The company that picks them up was supposed to clean them too, but they haven’t, so we will have to get in there and do the job.

“Another thing, they aren’t big enough to handle all our trash.”

Scott also commented on the college priorities. “If Davidson can spend high sums making sure the leaves are off the grass and all the limbs are the right height, it seems like they would worry about the aesthetics of these dumpsters.

“Yet they are spread out all around the court. Last year we had a truck and daily trash pick up but even that is gone.”

The problem has gotten to the point where many students have taken the situation into their own hands. Recently one student attempted to tow the dumpsters to a different site.

“Of course the best situation would be what we had last year with daily pick ups. If the dumpsters could be dumped and cleaned every day it would not be so bad, but it is emptied only twice a week,” said Scott. “My suggestion is to build concrete pads behind the houses to sit the dumpsters on. That way, with an enclosure around them, they would be put out of sight and smell and could still be emptied.

“As it is they will continue to sit there and smell and draw flies. Something’s got to be done!”

HOMEWORKERS. Earn $2 hourly addressing envelopes. Rush a quarter and a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: Opportunities, P. O. Box 644, Douglasville, Georgia 30134.

ESPRIT: Evangelical Summer Program - Relevant International Training

For the cost of a regular term in the USA, YOU can experience the thrill of study and travel abroad this summer while earning 12 to 16 hours credit in French and/or History. YOU are invited to participate in ESPRIT, a cooperative study program of Taylor University and Wheaton College.

This summer ESPRIT offers:
* three weeks of study and experience in Paris, "the most beautiful city in the world"
* four weeks of study and excitement in Nice, sun-drenched capital of the French Riviera
* a one week excursion across the French provinces and French Switzerland
* courses in two areas:
  - French language, literature and civilization taught by native French instructors
  - History given by special ESPRIT staff from Taylor University History Department

For more information, please contact:
ESPRIT
Post Office Box 636
Wheaton College
Wheaton, Illinois 60187

Hallmark
Personalize your gifts

With bright Hallmark color-coordinated papers, Stick-to-itself ribbon, trims and yarns.

THE VILLAGE STORE of Davidson
“Brings You A World of Gifts”

© 1975 Hallmark Cards, Inc.