Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Letter To The Editor

Moore Misrepresents Iranian Monarch

"THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING." - Marshall McLuhan

To The Editor:

So what if he is. So what if he travels around the world or to St. Moritz. Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. Moritz? Does not Henry Ford travel around the world or to St. MoritzReligious. They are very resistant to any kinds of modern 20th-century changes. They refuse to tolerate co-education. They believe that females must not date males before marriage. Females must wear veils (chadors) in order to cover their bodies. These customs have existed for 2500 years or more. However, this does not mean that such customs prevail in the big cities. Does Moore intend to change these customs overnight? If he cannot tolerate them, why did he work in such an environment in the first place?

Iran has improved tremendously under the Shah. Twenty years ago Iran was lacking in education and technology. Since the Shah came to power, the country has become rich, powerful, independent, and beautiful. Any Iranian who lives in Iran can prove this. Educational institutions like medical schools and universities thrive throughout the country. As a matter of fact, in 1971 alone, 2500 schools were built. If Moore decides to visit some other Middle Eastern countries (I do not intend to name any in particular), he will find that Iran is far more advanced than these other countries. Iran has more educational facilities. If Moore could have visited Iran 25 years ago then he would have realized how much improvement has taken place.

For Moore's information, the Shah donated thousands of acres of land (free) to thousands of farmers. He did not ask for anything in return. The Shah devotes all of his energy toward world peace. He is one of the most peaceful monarchs in history. After all, the Shah was the only oil-producing leader who did not cut off oil shipments to the United States during the Arab oil embargo. The Shah has given shelter to hundreds of innocent people who were persecuted by other governments. To say that the Shah has improved Iran does not mean that Iran is free of all mundane problems. If Iran had no problems then there would be no need for the U.S. Peace Corps. Moore knew (before he left for Iran) that the function of the Corps is to aid disadvantaged environments. Maybe Moore was expecting an environment filled with harems, women, wine, and song.

Moore also mentioned that the Shah is a customer of Rolls Royce. Does not Kissinger travel around the world? Does not the president own luxurious cars? Is the United States devoid of all problems? Maybe Moore should visit the area on the other side of the tracks right here at Davidson. A ruler or president is entitled to a vacation. The work demanded of the Shah is nerve-wracking. Moore also mentioned that the Shah’s pictures are on coins and in shops. So what if they are? In the United States, we find images of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln on coins. It is a tradition (2500 years old) that the monarch’s image be engraved on coins. Iranian history can prove that. The pictures of the kings in shops signify the people’s allegiance to the Iranian nation. Are Iranians not entitled to some patriotism? My girlfriend tells me that up to several years ago, her teachers demanded that they all (students) pledge allegiance to the United States before classes could begin. I see nothing wrong with that. Maybe Moore intends to change 2500 years of history overnight.

Moore also stated that the teachers who were working with him were paid only $45 per week. However, Moore fails to realize that $45 in an Iranian village can buy you a tremendous amount of merchandise. A person can see 3 or 4 movies (just released) with only $1.25. I think it is unfair to compare United States standards of living with those of Iran. The standards of living in Iran are not as high as those in the United States. Therefore, to be paid $45 a week in a village is not a rip-off as Moore believes. In conclusion then, I believe that Moore fails to understand the sociological concept of “cultural relativism.” This concept simply states that one cannot compare one culture with another. One must look at the culture in question with respect to how it has changed. In other words, if a culture has come a long way, it is said to have improved; however, when compared with another culture, it might seem that the former is still primitive in nature. I sincerely hope that future Peace Corps volunteers will attempt to look at the Iranian culture as unique in its own way, in the same way that the American culture is unique in its own way.

Shaul M. Saddick
Davidson College ’75

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night will ordinarily be printed that week.