the davidsonian

October 17, 1975

WEB: Campus spider captures flies in environmental spinoff.

Language program offers Chinese

By LYMAN COLLINS
Staff Writer

Urdu, Swedish, Norwegian, Japanese, and Chinese are full-credit Self-Instructional Language courses at Davidson this year.

“This program is a great opportunity to learn languages that ordinarily aren’t available at Davidson. It certainly opens up Davidson’s international curriculum considerably,” commented Dr. Jacobus.

Funded by a federal grant in the early sixties, the idea was to create a relatively inexpensive program so students could study those little-taught languages without great expense to the college. Recently, the National Association of Self-Instructional Language Programs was organized for the interchange of ideas. Davidson was one of about 50 original members. It is hoped that number will grow to about 500 schools.

Working mainly with cassette tapes, along with a text, the student concentrates on the spoken language with reading skills also developed.

In addition to working daily with the tapes, three times a week the student works with a tutor whose native tongue is the language the student is studying. These tutors are not trained language instructors, and they are paid by the college. Davidson is fortunate to have many foreign students studying here to aid in the program.

Students are evaluated at a campus where the language is taught by a full-time instructor. There the student is tested and given a grade on his performance.

Back at Davidson, Dr. Jacobus reviews the grade and usually assigns it to the student as a normal grade.

After three to four terms of study at Davidson, the student usually needs more contact and feedback with native speakers of the language. Then the student is encouraged to take part in summer institutes or, if possible, study abroad.

Motivation comes entirely from the students themselves, so applicants are well screened to see if they have this motivation as well as a native capacity for languages. If a student (see Jacobus, page 10)

FOOTWEAR for:

come browse

DRESS
CASUAL
SPORT
HIKING
CAMPING

BOSTONIAN
BASS
DUNHAM
CONVERSE

Only 6 miles north

ESTABLISHED 1912

John Meck & Son

MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA

-Leon Venable

Cassette system replaces antiquated machine reels

By BRAD SWALWELL
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Language Lab was transformed this past summer from an antiquated reel-to-reel tape system to a modern cassette tape system, according to Language Lab Director Pat Snouse.

“The new system is much easier to use, both for the students listening in the lab and for the staff running the lab,” said Snouse.

Senior David Wiley, who worked in the Language Lab this past summer, commented on the change-over from the old reel-to-reel system to the new cassette system.

“I took the old reel-to-reel master tapes and from them made cassette masters. The machine does this in one-fourth the time of the reel-to-reel master. So a thirty-minute reel-to-reel master can be duplicated onto a cassette in about seven minutes.

“Then I took the cassette master and made two duplicate cassettes in one-sixteenth the time of the original.”

Snouse added that the job is far from completed.

“There are still many tapes to be made. We're getting up first the tapes that professors need now,” she said.

Snouse said that besides tapes for the “Big Three” languages—French, German, and Spanish—the lab has tapes for twelve other languages. These languages are: Chinese, Greek, Hebrew, Hindu-Urdu, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Norwegian, Portuguese, Russian, Sanskrit, and Swahili.

“Most of these twelve are for Dr. Jacobus’ Critical Language Program,” said Snouse.

Snouse said that the language departments are not the only departments using the Language Lab. Dr. Rupert Barber, Professor of Speech and Drama, has theater tapes in the lab for his students.

“The English Department is having us put several plays on cassettes. This is a slower process than making cassettes from the reel-to-reel masters.

“The plays are on records, which must be played through at a normal speed to make a cassette master,” said Snouse.

In addition, Snouse said that Professor Jean Cornell of the Speech Department is using the lab with a class this fall, and the Sociology Department had discussed putting tapes of famous speeches and lectures in the lab.

Snouse said that students who want personal copies of tapes in the lab can have the lab personnel make these copies.

“The student furnishes a blank cassette. We will make copies of any of the lab tapes without charge,” said Snouse, adding that 67 tapes were made for students in September.

The Language Lab is open 68 hours a week, including Saturday mornings and Sunday afternoons and evenings. Snouse is assisted by work-study students three afternoons a week, plus evenings and weekends.

“Last month, 2170 people used the lab. On average, 160-170 people use the lab each day during the week,” said Snouse.

Friday, Oct. 17
8 & 10:30 P.M.

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

SHAMPOO

Love
$1.00