Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

October 3, 1975

The Davidsonian

Mud Marrs Contests

Bongs Edge SPE’s in Flickerball

Burcka, it is official: Bongs over the SPE’s, 19-12. The card was muddy and late. But that is okay. This week we have a pile of cards from teams we know nothing about. With this kind of coverage, we could write for the Observer. Move over, Bob.

On the first game of our review (that’s not a test), the 3rd Cannon Frogs croaked the 4-Q’s in a thriller officiated by the famous Shaburg. This man has larger mammary glands than any coed and will back it up in any face-to-face competition. Richardson-2 flamed over a mystery team, the Diagos, 26-7. The Diagos complained, since two of their key players failed to appear (reportedly a masked man and his mute dark companion). Definitely a horse mediocre team.

Because of personal affiliation, it is difficult for us to report the next score: Phi Delt-A over IFT, 13-6. In a game closer than the score relates, the ending played a major part as the Delts quelled a strong IFT rally. It was close to a cleanly fought contest as the powerful Skibo floated dreamily from the clouds and flattened our beloved Shmade. No hard feelings, Skibo. We know you didn’t know what you were doing.

Proving the strength of our practice...

---

Runners (Continued from page 8)

“I decided on track because I seemed to have some talent there,” Pinckney related. Indeed he must, for in his first two years he has already established himself as one of Davidson’s finest distance runners. As a sophomore, he finished first for Davidson in every meet in which he participated. In track, he set school records in both the three-mile and six-mile runs. His three-mile record broke that set by present track and cross country coach Sterling Martin in the early 60’s.

Pinckney has been disappointed with his performance so far this season. “I’ve already had two bad races this year, and I hope that’s all,” he said. “Last weekend was the worst I’ve run since freshman year. This year I came back to school in better shape than the year before. I ran 400 miles in August alone.” Pinckney feels activities have hurt his running. “It’s hard being a hall counselor and trying to run, too,” he explained. “I just can’t get enough sleep. And I haven’t been able to get in many morning runs. It’s been difficult to establish a pattern.” Nevertheless, Pinckney has done well, finishing first for Davidson in two meets and second in another.

Cole has been a consistent performer in cross country the past three years, but has had a slow start this season. “I’m disappointed, to say the least,” Cole stated. “I’ve never put in this much mileage before, but I just don’t seem to have it in the meets.” Cole ran 55 to 60 miles a week this...summer, and has kept that up since returning to school. He expects to see some results soon. “Sometimes things build up and then you reach a breakthrough,” he pointed out. “You just go wild. I’m aiming for a massive breakthrough.” Martin thinks Cole will reach it. “He’s in the best shape ever,” he commented, “and I expect him to break into the top five soon.”

After official time had predictions, Chocolate Speedway edged Cannon I, 56-32, in a defensive struggle. They were one of our top choices for high mediocre ranking. I guess that sums it up for Cannon I also. Of course, we have heard that the Speedway played the entire second half with their shoelaces tied together.

Pat’s Dirty Old Men (a highly mediocre team) walloped KA #2, 32-0. I guess you guys did not practice enough (and we ain't just whistling Dixie). Pat's secret plays were just too much for the Southerners as Sterling Martin repeatedly emerged from the cross-country course to receive well-laid passes. (W. H. runs a sleeper you wouldn't believe!) As the rushers were repeatedly confused by the fake handoffs to “Looker” Drake, who carries a fake in her arms very well, the “Sterling” Jeff Frank was then free to place deep lobs downfield to the streaking “Turd” Stone, who could not be found for comment. The Hot Dog Frank attributes the team’s success to the circuit, which they run every day after work. Quoth Jeff, “If it works for winning…”

Radio Shack Authorized Dealer Service and Sales

MOORESVILLE Parks Rexall Drugs COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Weekly Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. 892-0208

KING OF PIZZA, INC. 241 South Broad Street Mooresville, North Carolina Phone 663-3030

Wildcat

Of course, they remain one of our top mediocre teams. The score was 39-12 as the SAE’s out-smoothed the hapless Derbies. However, the Derbies put a long-distance call to T.J. Pecorak. Sorry fellas: no more parties at the SAE house. For the Derbies, Laura Lortz reportedly had both of them (touchdowns).

Now to the girls. As the porkers from the STY quivered, the ponderous flesh of 3rd Little rolled to victory. Football (men) will work for the referees did quite well, as play often continued after the whistle. Finally, in a tough, tubular inter-Watts rivalry, the Fourth Floor traditionally came out on top, as the Third Floor went down with de Feat (a French exchange student), 12-0. “What can I say?”

Compliments of CASHIONS FOOD MARKET — CORNELIUS

LAST CHANCE Lush Gey FREE Davidson College Drawing Nook, Sat Oct. 4 Be sure to see: POSTERS - PRINTS - PLANTS memo boards - kitchen gadgetry stationery and a fine line of GIFTS - CARDS - & remembrances THE VILLAGE STORE of Davidson “BRINGS YOU A WORLD OF ARTS”

Peanuts Characters Copr. © 1960, 1958 United Feature Syndicate, Inc.

DAVIDSON First Union National