Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Five The Davidsonian January 9, 1975

Pressures Disrupt Friendly Spirit

Freshman Orientation, 1971: A speaker (I forget whom) is telling us about a student who only as a senior had come to realize what Davidson had to offer, and was sorry he had only a year to go after it. Maybe he had taken three years to get down to work. The speaker thinks this was sad and encourages us to go after it from the start. I suppose everyone goes after whatever they think that Davidson does offer. In any case, I am now an old and experienced senior, and I feel that I have just this year come to realize what of high value Davidson has to offer. And it’s not helping my grades. What Davidson offers that I like is an extraordinary number of interesting, talented, amusing, and friendly people. The concentration is the remarkable thing.

Letters To The Editor

That is why, when I go home to a town which claims 300,000 residents (where they hide them, I don’t know), I feel as though I’m lost in a desert, whereas when I’m at Davidson, I’m overwhelmed by opportunities to spend time with people I like. That is also why I have never been bored at Davidson. Of course, some lectures were killers, but I mean I’ve never been profoundly bored, because, for me, there is never enough time to do my studies, to sleep, and to be adequately gregarious. I must credit Professor Abbott for a very memorable column he wrote two years ago, in which he argued that Davidson’s greatest asset was that it offered community. That community is what I shall miss about Davidson. I won’t miss my carrel in the E.H. Little Library, nor the food, nor the exams, nor the homecoming queen contest, nor, emphatically, course registration. I’ll miss the intellectual stimulation, but only as distinct from academic compulsion. I don’t know if Davidson offers more in this respect than most schools; I do know, however, that, at other schools, people probably have more freedom to explore such community. Wherever it derives, “academic pressure” tends to keep people apart. I wanted to write a positive column for a change, but I find myself drifting back onto the same negativity. The fact is, though, that while Davidson’s academic “success” attracts good people, it also gets in the way of their benefiting from, among other things, each other.

Man Bogged By Authority

Every year in this old peg when the fireplaces are to be used with regularity, it comes time to read “A Christmas Carol” and to experience Christmas. It is a time to slow down except for bursts of shopping. It is a time to smell odors, to notice colors and to break up the rush of life. I know people will smile at some of this and castigate commercialism, etc., etc., etc. But it is a time to me when the story of Scrooge is told to good effect. There is a line in Dickens’ book which refers to man in his brief vain authority. This brings to mind nursing assistants telling mental patients to line up at the ad only on an hour that each hour is predicated on one door opening instead of ten. Visions appear of professors proudly pronouncing their judgments on a student’s expression. A view comes of Nixon and his Reichsministers Ehrlichman and Haldeman. A question about myself when my little girl asked to go visit someone. Brief vain authority. None of us is immune it seems. Policemen, social workers, people. I once saw a noted and respected United States Senator dress down an elevator boy in the Senate office building. “Don’t you know a Senator’s ring?” “Yessir.” “I rang three times. You’re to answer that ring before picking up all these others.” Etc., etc., etc. It was a lesson in democracy. We had better not throw stones at the Russians until we get more plexiglass. Of course, brief vain authority isn’t confined to politicians and the antidote of humility is hard to swallow for all of us. They say that Thomas Jefferson’s landlady didn’t wait dinner for him on the day of his inauguration. Jefferson survived. So may we all.

Team Deserves Continuing Support

To the Editor: As I sit here, some disturbing thoughts have occurred to me. After our disastrous road trip north, a lot of students seem to have written the basketball team off for this year. To begin with, that’s about as ridiculous as the euphoria which swept the campus after we beat Ohio State. But I wonder how many people who were planning to stay for the game decided to split early after our recent poor showing. I was tempted. I don’t want to make a big thing of this but I don’t want to stay silent either. The varsity basketball team deserves our support for a number of reasons unique to this school. For one thing, the team is composed of more than just players, they are people. They have hopes, fears, and interests besides basketball. Yes, gentle reader, basketball players are people too. If you’re disappointed when they lose, how do you think they feel? But back to my main point—as opposed to a number of other schools, the basketball students here are also students. As far as I have been able to determine, nobody has relaxed any standards for them. They are students who happen to play basketball, very well. But they are not set apart, a separate class with separate rules. That has some very beneficial effects. One of their motivations for playing (yes, I know there are some others) is that they are playing for us, the students, their fellow students. So what if they’re not number one. They still deserve

---our support. - I know you care about achievement Davidson, do you still care about it? Robert Shearer ’77 Davidson College

To the Editor:

After returning from a five-day stay in the beautiful city of Prague, Czechoslovakia, and finding myself with a little time on my hands before the resumption of normal class activities, I’ve decided to write a few lines about the Junior Year Abroad experience as I’ve seen it to date. My recent trip, my recollection of four and one-half months in Europe, and the article about the pressure one often feels at Davidson which appeared on the front page of the December 20 issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN have all moved me to describe some of the aspects of a year abroad.

The JYA program allows a student to temporarily "escape" from most of the pressure at Davidson, yet still receive the nine credits he needs for the year. If the student plans ahead, receiving credit outside the German department (the majority of courses are usually taken in German literature) is entirely possible and, in most cases, no problem. Academic life and course structure are much different from that in American colleges and universities. Thom Nicoll accurately described the academic atmosphere at a European school in his article relating some aspects of the year he spent in Montpellier, France, so I need not reiterate.

The one outstanding feature of the Davidson program is that the administration doesn’t require grades; everything is recorded on a pass-fail basis. It would be ridiculous and impractical to do so (strangely, the other two American programs here do require grades and a specific number of hours in class per week) because there are no recorded grades in the system here; course structure simply doesn’t permit it. I have found that this method gives me the freedom to concentrate on the areas of a subject which hold my greatest interest, and affords me the time to pursue other interests not directly involved with the courses I am taking.

When one arrives (seven weeks before the beginning of the regular winter semester—this year we left the U.S. on August 23, the semester began the second week in October) he is greeted by the advisor for the group, then assigned a dormitory room by this advisor. One quickly learns that essentially nobody is here except other Americans and that things won’t get going for another six weeks. During this period of "emptiness," the student must also endure the six-week intensive language course which consists of three hours of class time per day—five days a week, two lectures (in German, of course) of approximately 1½ hours each per week, and two one-hour periods of language lab per week. To top it all off, one must then take a four-hour examination given by the foreign students office of the university. If he fails (two out of seven failed this year), he must take a specific course specializing in the language and reading and listening comprehension, then take the exam again until he passes it. (The second time around is never any problem.) All this is clearly no fun, but it is, for the most part, valuable in orienting the D.C. student to the language and culture of the people here in Germany.

Once all this is completed, however, and all the regular students have returned, the picture begins to look much brighter. If you are friendly, so are the Germans. The student who is willing to adapt to the way of doing things here (not always make comparisons to how it is in America); who is open to hearing ideas about all facets of life from politics (especially important here in Marburg—I call it the Berkeley of Germany) to religion; and who looks patiently to his hallmates and acquaintances for help with the language and in making social contacts will certainly find the time spent here as a student extremely worthwhile and very enjoyable.

The opportunity to travel extensively is an obvious plus when assessing the value of a year in Europe. Marburg is somewhat centrally located—access to the East Bloc countries (Czechoslovakia, Poland, East Germany), the Scandinavian countries, and the Mediterranean area is not more than a day’s travel by bus or train. Great Britain is also within easy reach. The largest student organization here at the University (A St. A) has a travel agency which books trips all over Europe, both east and west, at special rates to students. Two of us were in Prague last week during the Christmas holidays (Christmas lasts three days in Europe), three others are presently in Moscow. Speaking for myself and the trip to Prague, the trip was very well organized (but not over-organized) and a great experience, all at a very low, reasonable cost.

Don’t get me wrong, you can’t travel and live over here for peanuts, but with a little looking and asking around for information, and some minor belt-tightening here and there, the total cost of more than ten months in Europe can be about the same as a year at Davidson (which is really only eight months in duration). Cost, of course, varies from person to person, but I just want to emphasize that the problem of expense should not eliminate anybody from considering or spending a year in a foreign land on a JYA program.

Studying in a rather large school (15,000 students) is also a new experience for the Davidson student; and he quickly feels the atmosphere in which knowing almost every face which he encounters by name is lacking. Being without many small conveniences (you can’t bring everything with you on the plane, you know), without real contact with close friends and home, and being considered a “foreigner” are all things the student must accept as part of the potential of life as a student abroad.

Tim Hose '76
Philipps-Universität Marburg, West Germany