Twelve - The Davidsonian April 10, 1975

Perish and publish: “We try to find the time to write articles for publication in the national media, but it never gets done. The essentials are taking more time than we have. Both Martha and I have the capability, but we just don’t have the time,” said Lawrimore.

The dilemma of college publications

By MARK DEATON
Editor

(Ed. note: The following is the first installment of a two-part series on college publications. An analysis of student publications will follow next week.)

The present operating procedures of the Communications office make it a wonder that anyone outside of North Carolina has heard of Davidson College at all beyond the group that receives The Davidson Update. The three-member Communications department handles the bulk of all college printed material—college stationary, bulletins, brochures, programs, schedules, tickets, invitations, the Wildcat Handbook, the courses of instruction tabloid, and the college catalog in addition to the college press releases and The Update.

With such a large volume of materials, both Director of Communications Martha Byrd and Photography Director Lawrimore have to spend time on the production aspect of printing, typesetting, and paste-up of copy with Publications Assistant Pat Burgess. The result of this production work is a decrease in time for Byrd and Lawrimore to write and edit press releases, features material, and other stories for national and local newspapers and magazines. Davidson is not getting the media coverage it is paying for with its $52,126 1974-75 communications budget.

“No, I’m not satisfied with the coverage Davidson is getting. If Davidson College could become a household word that stood for something meaningful and significant, I’d be the happiest,” said Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan.

For example, in the April 12 ‘National Observer,” one half page was devoted to a speech given at Lehigh University by former Secretary of State Dean Rusk, highlighting Lehigh student reaction to Rusk’s presentation and focusing on campus lifestyles. Neither Byrd nor Lawrimore are often writing such material for “The Charlotte Observer,” much less “The National Observer.”

Although The Update published a feature on The Davidson National Print and Graphics Competition, no effort was made to have such a feature published in the art section of “Time,” “Newsweek” or other major national publications concerning the largest print and drawing show in the United States.

Chances are, a well-written feature designed especially for one of these publications would be published. As Byrd admits, “This is one thing we end up not having time to do well.” Lawrimore added, “This is, we feel, our shortcoming and our greatest challenge.”

“We try to find the time to write articles for publication in the national media, but it never gets done. The essentials are taking more time than we have. Both Martha and I have the capability, but we just don’t have the time,” said Lawrimore.

Lawrimore explained that it was becoming increasingly difficult to place articles concerning Davidson in publications with a national circulation. “Time was, I could write a story and send it into ‘The Charlotte Observer’ and get it published.”a by-line. In addition, we’d get one or two stories each month out over the AP wire. Now I’m lucky if AP will take anything I write,” said Lawrimore. “We would like very much to have another full-time person. If we had one more full-time professional, we could really do a bang-up job, but both Martha and I agree that the college has more pressing needs,” said Lawrimore.

Yet the major deficiency in the Communications department at present is not so much the lack of another professional, but misuse of the time of the present professional staff due to inefficient production practices. “We are now trying to re-evaluate our department to find ways to improve our efficiency,” said Byrd. “One of my main gripes is that I feel many times we need to have professional design help, but quite often things come to us on so short a time schedule, I don’t have time to consult them,” she said. “None of us make any pretense of being graphic designers. But we do it.”

Byrd is also beginning to explore the possibilities of obtaining some sophisticated printing and composing equipment for the office. “I’m investigating the feasibility of purchasing a copying machine. I’m also looking into the feasibility of using a small offset press. I’m not sure we could operate it without a full-time staff person, however,” she said.

The Communications department does not at present have sufficiently sophisticated equipment to make a place for itself in the twentieth century. All copy setting is done on an IBM Composer. Burgess must manually justify the margins, forcing her to type every line at least twice. The composer will not set large-sized type, forcing Burgess to hand-letter virtually all publications, another time-consuming process.

The Communications department does not set the copy for The Update. The department pays a printer to set copy. And although Lawrimore spends some time working on other Communications department publications, he spends the majority of his hours writing, photographing, designing layouts, and editing The Update. The “Official newspaper of Davidson College” is published nine times a year. The Update has been allocated a budget of $16,000 for publication costs for the approximately 22,000 copies of the 24-page tabloid.

“The Update is a P.R. piece designed to place Davidson in the best light. It is not designed as an instrument of critical evaluation of the college,” Bevan said. “It’s news from the college, designed to tell the alumni and other readers what’s going on and evoke a supportive response,” he said.

Lawrimore stressed his major concern as being the quality of the paper. “I don’t see The Update as a ‘good news only’ publication, but fortunately, most of what we’ve had to print is good news. I’m not really striving to create any kind of image other than the feeling of quality in the whole paper. The image is determined by the decision makers, administrators, faculty, and even students. I really don’t give the readers of Update anything that I don’t give the general public. It’s just a matter of more of the same,” Lawrimore said.