November 14, 1975

the davidsonian

3-on-3 cage tourney ends,
flickerball drifts to finals

By TOM BLACKWOOD
and KIRK COMBE

It’s all over. It came and went. Was here and now is gone. The 75-76, 3-on-3 tournament is at an end. Sigh.

We are only sorry that one team had to win.

There were too many good teams. Out of the dust cloud of talent blew two exceptional groups: the Dandies, and Return to Forever, featuring Mark Firth.

Neither team had an easy route. The Dandies disposed of the Hustling Spermwhales, PDT #1, and the Little Big Men in their climb.

Return to Forever clawed through Last Chance, sorry fellas, and the Kerwood Derbies. Hohum. When the smoke cleared, it was Return to Forever on top, 20-8.

The man-for-man play of Firth, Ken Schmader, and Kirk Combe made up for the zone play of Joe Duncan. “We were lucky Kenny, Mark, and I were shooting well, ’cause Joe wasn’t worth a frog’s leg,” said Combe.

Rick Ehrhart was the Dandies’ sharpshooter, followed by Paul Henschen and the nondescript, tall guy with the beard. Their fourth man, Dick Boehner, played well in spurts.

But the essence of any 3-on-3 tournament, as you well know, is not the strained ankles and tempers of play, but the nomenclature of the various teams.

For instance, do you suppose the NBA would ever field a team called “Vas Deferens” or “We’re Terrible”? Of course not; don’t be stupid.

What city, with the possible exception of Cleveland, would associate its fair name with “The Hustlin’ Sperm Whales,” “Raoul and Various Poor Devils,” “Ma Forbes and the DWB,” “Fruit Hill Gang,” “Little Black Sambo and His Poor White Trash,” or “The Brown Dirt Cowboys”?

Displaying their usual Clevelandish mentality, the fraternities and freshmen came up with their usual plentitude of originality by coming up with “PDT #1,” “Cannon #2,” or “4th Richardson #7.”

Also, a clever group of youths conspired to name their team “bye” and advanced to the quarter-finals before any opposing team showed up for a game.

As the regular season ends with a groan, it is flickerball tournament time once again. Some diehards have been writing home to brag of dual sport stature. How silly.

In exciting tournament openers, 4th Richardson outclassed Pika in overtime by yardage. In more exciting tournament play, IFT cruised by the Bongs, yes the Bongs, 25-19. The epitome of flickerball was attained as a touchdown was scored by each team in the last two minutes. Not succumbing to the cosmic pressures, IFT scored the winning touchdown with less than 11 seconds (or was it 4?) left to play.

In more exciting post-season tournament play, SAE defeated the Pat’s Dirty Old Men, 26-0. In further tournament action, Off Again embarrassed Emanon, 20-0.

Reflecting on it all, the tired but frank Sterling Martin told these reporters, “You know, it’s too bad Pat’s Dirty Old Men didn’t get a chance to beat ‘Off Again’.”

New policy outlined

Weight room controversy flares up

By DAVE KELLER
Staff Writer

There has been a slight controversy this year over the removal of the barbells from the weight room by the football team.

A number of student users of the weights have questioned the team’s right to use the weights solely for its members.

There now appears to be no question as to who has control of these particular weights because, according to several athletic department sources, they were bought a number of years ago by the football team with football funds and were moved both to be more convenient for the football team.

Their removal, said Assistant Athletic Director Tom Couch, “was also based on the fact that we are trying to turn the open space under the west grandstands into a permanent college weight room, and we felt that at the present our Universal weight machine could meet the needs of the student body.”

“We have already received donations of mirrors and carpet for the room,” Couch noted. “Now we are just waiting on enough money so that we are able to do a good job on it.”

He also said that if a student wanted to use the barbells rather than the machine he could get a key (the barbells are locked up to prevent their theft) from one of the football coaches, provided the student did not work out alone.

After construction of the new weight room, the present one will be converted into a small gym for women’s gymnastics and tumbling classes; such a facility would fill quite a void in the college’s athletic department.

“The basketball team needs to use the weight room as part of our practice,” said Assistant Basketball Coach Harry Krohn, “and we need to have it for our use only for about twenty minutes each day. We plan to be in there from 5 to 5:30 every afternoon but Monday. Students should take note of this and plan their workouts accordingly.”

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

THE FINEST IN STEAK & SEAFOOD

27 ITEM SALAD BAR
BROWN BAGGING
BEER AND WINE
PARTY FACILITIES

HOURS:
WED & THURS 5-10PM
FRI, SAT & SUN 5-11 PM

HIGHWAY 115 N.
MOORESVILLE
663-5510

Union National.