Student Store Analysis: Nicholls Defends Textbook Markup

By STEVE PEEPLES
Staff Writer

Price mark-ups at the Davidson Student Store have been a continual subject of question and dispute. Manager of the Student Store Peter Nicholls explained that there was a 20 percent mark-up from cost on textbooks, and judged that this margin was “almost universal.” On non-textbook items such as T-shirts and general supplies, there is a 40 percent mark-up over cost. “This too I think you’ll find to be standard,” Nicholls said.

On ‘trade books,’ specialized texts which are not normally used as class texts, there is also a 40 percent mark-up. When there is a small increase in the price of inexpensive items from the supplier, “usually around three or four percent,” the bookstore will often absorb the loss without passing on the increase to students.

Pointing out that these were average figures, Nicholls said the store did an annual volume of around $210,000, and, after all expenses, showed a profit of approximately $9,000-10,000 or about 4 percent on average. “Profits go to the college, not to the bookstore,” Nicholls said, “and of course, there is no commission. We are on a straight salary.”

Besides Nicholls and one other full-time employee, Mrs. Rachel Washam, there are four work-study students in the store. Commenting on efficiency, Nicholls pointed out that the bookstore six years ago was doing a volume of $90,000 per year with the same size staff.

Student store directors at Haverford College, Duke University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC-CH), Emory University, Southwestern at Memphis University (SWU), and the College of Charleston were questioned regarding textbook mark-ups, non-text mark-up annual volumes, profits, and employee compensation. 

The five schools that replied showed these constants: 
1) Profit margin on all non-textbook items was 40 percent; 
2) Employees all either operated on straight salary or under work-study systems; 
3) At all but one school, the profit margin of textbook sales is twenty percent. Only at the College of Charleston is the margin ten percent.

The managers of these stores confirmed that 20 and 40 percent markups on texts and supplies were probably the margins at nearly every school in the country. Annual profit margins after expenses ranged from two percent at the College of Charleston and SWU at Memphis to over ten percent at UNC-CH. One point of interest is that at Haverford and UNC-CH all profits from the bookstores are earmarked for financial aid purposes. Annual volumes ranged from $100,000 at SWU at Memphis to $5,182,000 at UNC-CH. None of the stores at state-supported schools were subsidized. “We are considered to be a self-sufficient operation and we receive no money from the state or the college,” said the manager of the College of Charleston Store.

Additional comments on the operation of the bookstores varied from a standard “Our job is to put books in the hands of students by the first day of classes” to “We try to provide as complete a supply of texts as possible.” At SWU at Memphis, the manager of the bookstore Datie Early provided further comments on running a bookstore. “Most stores have to operate slightly over or under the break-even point. It is almost impossible to break even,” she said. She reiterated many of Nicholls’ statements, adding that nearly all the markup was eaten up by slipping costs and general expenses. “Anything less than a twenty percent margin on texts is probably a shoestring operation,” she said, explaining that an annual profit rate of four percent, such as that at Davidson, could not be considered excessive.

The Davidsonian
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
October 17, 1975

Colours: Colours will perform Homecoming weekend.

Senate Debates NSA Ties, Redefines Editors’ Terms

By STEPHEN BELL
Staff Writer

The SGA Senate held its annual debate Tuesday night on National Student Association (NSA) membership renewal, and, as in past years, voted...to remain a member of the national organization. — Senators John Guthrie and Martin Eakes, long-time opponents of membership for Davidson in the NSA, led the debate against renewal. “It’s not worth $100 for us to be a member of the NSA for what little benefits we get,” argued Guthrie. “What did we get from NSA last year, all of three documents? Pay me $100 and I’ll be happy to get you as much,” he told the Senate. Senators Bo Baskins and Carol Watkins argued in favor of renewal, and Baskins noted that the NSA is the SGA’s main tie to the student population nationwide. The final vote in favor of renewal was 10-7.

Also Tuesday night, the Senate gave final approval to an amendment of the SGA By-Laws extending the terms of student publications editors until the publications are actually finished. The amendment was inspired by the problems with Carroll Ensley’s editorship of the 1974-75 Quips and Cranks, and had already been debated at the Senate meeting of the previous week. The vote in favor of the amendment was 17-0, with one abstention. The Senate also heard a motion to suspend the By-Laws in this winter’s elections to lengthen the campaigning period, but voted to postpone debate until next Tuesday. Tony Boon and Pope Moseley were appointed to the Faculty International Education Committee. Also, the Senate allocated $35 to the Scabbard and Blade group in support of the ROTC/Red Cross blood drive. Absent from this meeting were Senators Kunkleman, Rees, and Sibley.

Trustees convene, discuss infirmary
By SCOTT REID
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Board of Trustees will focus on the reorganization of Preyer Infirmary and college development plans through 1987 in their meeting this weekend. According to College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., the Trustee Committee on Student Life and Health will discuss four recommendations for altering the health services as currently organized at the College Infirmary. The four recommendations are being drawn up by Dean of Students, Will H. Terry, from the McFarland report. Dr. James A. McFarland, a trustee, and two other physician/trustees reviewed the services and facilities of the infirmary this past summer. Both student and faculty committees have reviewed the recommendations made by McFarland and his colleagues and are now passing them along to the trustees for their approval. Approval of the four general recommendations is expected so that the College can work out the specific details needed to implement them by next year.

Vice-President for Development Craven Williams will present a draft of the development plans for the college through 1987 to the Trustees Development Committee. The plan is Williams’ implementation of the goals highlighted by the Goals Committee last spring. Williams sent copies of his draft to all of the Development Committee’s members so that the Committee will concentrate not on the draft’s presentation, but a critique thereof. “The bulk of the long-range planning, as outlined by the Goals Committee, is involved with increasing the College’s endowment,” said Williams. “This is our first and most pressing goal. Money from the endowment goes to support faculty and staff salaries, to support increases in student aid, to supply the library with funds to acquire materials, and to fund new and existing academic programs such as the Honors Center and international programs.

“The second part of our long-range plans deals with building funds. Our goals in this area include building new chemistry facilities, adding to the facilities of the fine arts departments, creating a non-spectator sports facility for intramural sports and phys-ed requirements, and building more student housing and food service areas. Pivotal in our consideration of new housing and food service facilities is the need to set a goal for future enrollment as our options depend upon the figure arrived at.”

The Religious Policy and Programs Committee will meet to evaluate the campus ministry program as run by Rush Otey for the last three years.