November 7, 1975

The Davidsonian

Cats down Kenyon for first grid victory

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Staff Writer

Davidson recorded its first football victory of the year, downing Kenyon 14-10 on the strength of two touchdown plunges by
senior running back Steve Stec.

Although the offense continued to have trouble getting untracked, the Wildcats' defensive unit repeatedly halted Kenyon drives with a much
improved pass rush and a school record of six interceptions.

In addition, the defense provided what proved to be the turning point of the game when Bob Sanders stopped a
Kenyon running back at the line of scrimmage on a fourth-and-one situation at Davidson’s 42-yard line with the Wildcats trailing
7-6. From here the offense drove 58 yards for the go-ahead touchdown with Stec scoring from the one.

Coach Ed Farrell praised the team’s defensive effort and was encouraged by the defense’s ability to stop the Lords when
they had to late in the game.

“We didn’t make any dramatic improvements over the previous weeks except we played good steady defense and did not give
up the one big play. We bent, but we did not break,” noted Farrell.

On offense, the Cats compiled a total offense of 133 yards with 95 yards in 59 rushes and 2 passes
to John Morrissey from freshman quarterback Bill Wolar accounting for the other 38 yards.

Still, Coach Farrell is optimistic that the offense is getting better and will continue to improve over the last three
games of the season.

“We sputtered on offense as we have all along, however there was a situation in this ball game, where we
needed a drive for the winning score, where we put it together under pressure and scored the go-ahead touchdown,” Farrell
pointed out.

“We are inching along, getting better all the time, and we still feel our best game is ahead of us.”

As in the past, Farrell has strongly urged the fans and administration to be patient and give his team time
to adjust to his new program which is only in its second year.

“It’s hard to be patient when things are going so badly as they have for us this year, but if
you start jumping around trying this idea and that idea then you never get good at anything.

“You need to build a good foundation on which you can get better and better.”

The Wildcat offense is based on execution rather than explosive speed according to Farrell. He indicated that this is one
of the major problems for his young offensive unit.

“We think our offense is perfectly suited to our personnel, but there is a lot of intelligence involved in the
offensive line play rather than just brute force and it takes time to get good at it.”

“I’m disappointed for this year’s seniors and I’m sorry that the school has to take so much flak about the
season so far but if everyone can hold on to their hats, I think the program is headed in the
right direction,” said Farrell.

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

The Davidson football squad will meet the Lehigh Engineers Saturday on Richardson Field in the last Wildcat home game of
the season.

Lehigh will enter the game with a 7-1 record, including wins over Delaware, Pennsylvania, and Rutgers. The Engineers’ only loss
was to Army in the second game of their season. They are presently riding a six-game winning streak.

“They are probably the best offensive football team we have played to date,” said Davidson head football coach Ed Farrell.

“Their offense is the same as ours (Wing-T), but they have been making good yardage from it, and they throw
the ball exceptionally well.”

Lehigh is averaging 38.5 points per game. The offense features a powerful running attack led by fullback Ron Gardner with
844 yards and halfback Mark Weaver with 527 yards.

Weaver is also a threat as a pass receiver, having caught 16 passes for 390 yards and six touchdowns.

The running attack is complimented by the passing of quarterback Joe Sterrett. Sterrett has completed 95 of 159 passes this
season for 1,489 yards.

Lehigh defeated Davidson 53-6 last year, and Farrell indicated that this year, Lehigh would possibly be the toughest opponent the
Wildcats have faced.

“We’re approaching the game with a very positive attitude,” said Farrell. “We got trounced last year, but physically, we stayed
with them the whole way. The players and coaches are all looking for another shot at them.”

-Pete Goodman

Friday, Nov. 7

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

JANE EYRE

$1.00

8 & 10:30 P.M.

-Pete Goodman

Ambulating over the turf: Larry Hardaway looks for a hole in the Kenyon line in last Saturday’s win.

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans

Only 6 miles north

Mooresville
