twelve The Davidsonian February 13, 1975

Munce Examines New Power Changes
By RON ZIEGLER
Staff Writer

In last Tuesday night’s Senate meeting, SGA President John Munce resigned and Vice President Lynn Keener was sworn in to
replace him. Munce resigned in disgust after Parliamentarian Peyton Marshall ruled him out of order. “The Senate will be getting
what it deserves,” said Munce.

Keener, in her acceptance speech, set the goals for the Senate for the rest of the year. “My goals as
President will be to bring the student body together under me. Divisive issues such as students' rights and educational policy
will be ignored as the Senate can concern itself with truly important matters, like ice machines.”

“It will also be important to consider the need for an ongoing policy of counseling at Davidson. The Senate more
than any other body is in a position to dramatize the immediate need for massive counseling efforts at Davidson.” Keener
also added that it would be necessary to get those “filthy, perverted, disgusting animals off campus.” At this point, the
Freshmen Senators withdrew in protest.

Keener rises to the office of presidency after chairing the elections board and leading the counting of the ballots in
two close races, including the vice-presidency. Senator Rick Roylance stated, “I’m sure Miss Keener will have the support of the
entire student body. After all, I’m throwing the massive Roylance block behind her.”

Dean of Students Will H. Terry stated, “Of course I’m unhappy to see John go, but I’m sure I will
be able to build the same close personal relationship with Lynn. We have much more in common.”

(Photo by Edward Steichen) John Munce Deplores...

Grange Donation (Continued from page 1)
...made in the department as they work in the renovated building. “It will be a change having a chemistry building
that doesn’t strike your nose and lungs with those horrible fumes every time I and the rest of the chemistry
department enter. I’m opposed to change, but we all recognize that this is just something that has to be done,”
Burnett said.

Davidson College is a small private liberal arts college in North Carolina. It ranks in the top ten percent of
all colleges weaseling their premeds into graduate school. Its News Bureau Chief Earl W. Lawrimore is a former Pulitzer Prize
winner.

...Faculty Discusses Exams (Continued from page 1)
...of the proposition as presented. “I would prefer a plan slightly more rhetorical in style,” remarked MacCormac. “We asked specifically
about that alternative in a student referendum last year, and no one understood the question,” said Eakes.

Mrs. Donald L. Kimmel Jr., administrator of the exam distribution center, expressed her approval of the trial night exam period.
“Students will be beating the doors down to gain admission to the examination center at night. I’ve always been turned
on by nocturnal admissions,” smiled Kimmel. “With such support, I see no reason why we should not institute night exams,”
remarked EPC student representative John Taylor (’76).

Faculty representatives expressed several supportive remarks concerning night exams. “Students have ample time to write their exams under the existing
system. I don’t think most students even take exams, so why shouldn’t we add on additional exam periods at night?”
asked one faculty member. “The faculty has bent over forwards to help students. If night exams are instituted, faculty members
will feel obligated to remain in their offices from 7 to 10 p.m. to give students answers to exam questions.”

In an SGA campus poll conducted last year, 92 percent of the student body voted in favor of abolishing the
option of night exams. A similar percentage of the student body expressed the desire to sustain the four-day examination period.

Holland, Winkler Publication
Professor J. Gill Holland and Julius Winkler have announced the upcoming publication of a joint poetic venture, “Wrestling the Dolphin.”The
volume will be issued in April by the Grappling Hook Press. The two poets researched the volume under a summer
travel grant from the Center for Honors Studies. The majority of the time was spent on a pier on the
South Sea island of Vertigo. The island is inhabited by descendants of Chinese and German colonies. Linguistic research was conducted
with the residents and the dolphins at odd hours. The prospectus for the poems suggests that "they are an attempt
to examine the implications of the popular worship of the Great Bolo Brothers and the fishing rod as the central
deities on Vertigo." When asked about the poems, Professor Holland waved and shouted "Great Stuff" as he disappeared into the
library. Winkler referred all questions to Holland. College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., expressed concern over the major change in
the college power structure. "I can’t say anything until I know what the trustees want me to say, so for
now I must say I have mixed emotions," Spencer said.

The position of president was decided on a secret ballot which she counted herself. In her first act as president,
Keener moved that all meetings be delayed an hour and a half so she would have time to get there.
The Senate voted down the motion until it was pointed out that Ex-Vice President John Gutherie would serve as acting
president in Keener’s absence. In other actions, a new eating club was created on campus.

(Continued from page 2)

All was not lost though, as the economics students made an important discovery. "Earl kept telling us there was money
out there, and sure enough, he found it," said Professor of Economics Ernie Patterson. "It wasn’t till we capsized that
we found the Mudd Foundation." Other members of the group were disgruntled. "I don’t know how I ever let Earl
talk me into this," said Professor of Political Science J. Harris Proctor. "My group didn’t see a single politician anywhere
near the Rocky River, although we did get a chance to observe the kind."

The Roylance amendment placing armed guards outside Watts was tabled for further discussion. "I was real disappointed that the Senate
decided to move the time of its meeting back an hour and a half. I thought it was going to
be my big chance, I think," said Guthrie. "I’ve always, well, kind of, well, you know, I’ve sort of had
a hankering to, so to speak, make the motion of, wait a minute, let me write that motion down, I
know I have it here someplace," Guthrie said. Roylance moved that a bodyguard be appointed for Keener. "After all, she
is a woman," said Roylance. "I know this is something Bob Corlew would have wanted us to do if he
were here," he said.

Director of the News Bureau Earl Lawrimore was waiting for the group at the treatment plant to take pictures and
write a story for the Davidson Update entitled, "Who is the Davidson honors student?" "When I saw them capsize in
that mess, I pretty well abandoned the story," said Lawrimore. "It was pretty obvious to me that all the students
and professors were already pretty well covered." Three Davidson students drowned in the settling pond, and the rest were awarded
their first two P.E. credits for swimming and canoeing.

The Davidsonian is curious about what’s happening inside the community, and special things inside your head. So we're starting a
special center section, Inside Art, devoted to original poetry, short fiction, drawings, and photography by Davidson students and professors. Our
first issue will be in a few weeks, and we're soliciting material now. Bring your stuff to The Davidsonian office
upstairs in the Union, or give it to Lillian Gascoigne (L 211) or Bob Howell (S 303). Inside Art. It's
all yours.
