Eight - The Davidsonian May 2, 1975

Vetters get it together

Boswell paces Cats in S.C. tournament

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Contributing Editor

Putting together what head coach Jeff Frank called a “super team effort,” the Davidson College tennis squad captured third place
in the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament at Charleston, S.C. last weekend. Tallying the number of upset wins the Cats scored,
Frank said that 10 Davidson wins were from underdog positions, while only one match was lost in which the Cats
were favored. Davidson finished with 62 points for the event, just four behind second-place Furman. Appalachian won the title going
away with 65 of a possible 72 points.

Two Cat netters took conference crowns in their respective brackets. Stuart Boswell, playing in the number five singles, was seeded
third going into the affair. But after an easy win in the first round, he upset second-seeded Graham Hatcher of
Appalachian in a semifinal comeback, 4-6, 7-6, 6-3. Then he toppled top-ranked Mark Stone of Furman 6-1, 6-3 in easy
fashion in the finals.

Rick Quinby, who has played the top singles slot for the Cats all season, was seeded fifth in the first
round. Consequently, his 6-2, 3-6, 6-3 win over William & Mary’s Marc Abrams was considered another upset. Then he faced
two-time defending champion David Richardson of Appalachian. In a losing effort, the Cat senior scored more games against Richardson than
any other player in the tourney, going down in a hard-fought 7-5, 7-5 struggle. Quinby came right back the final
day and took the playoff match for third place over third-seeded John Leitch of Richmond 6-3, 3-6, 6-1.

At the fourth singles, Mike Barnhill also pulled upset wins in the first round, but then dropped to Robert Galloway
of William & Mary. He came back in the playoff, however, to dump Jim Hall of Furman, 6-0, 7-6. Hall
had beaten Barnhill in straight sets during the regular season.

Chip Bondurant, the number two player for the Cats, suffered from the seedings and ended up playing Furman’s Jerry Robinson
in the first round. He lost a close three-set match 6-0, 5-7, 7-6, forcing him to move into the losers
bracket. He got the next two wins, though, and netted four team points as he finished fifth.

John Mitchell, who was seeded sixth in the third singles area, had not fully recovered from a recent illness and
dropped a three-setter to Peter Steinhouser. He also lost another three-set match to Don Ball in the playoff for fifth
place.

Frank was naturally pleased with the performance of the singles players. Most of them, he felt, played some of the
best tennis he has seen them play the entire season.

Doubles did not go as well for the Cats. The third doubles team of Greg Dunn and Mitchell went into
the tourney seeded second. After sweeping through the first round, they were upset in the semis by the duo from
William & Mary in straight sets. They also dropped the playoff for third place in straight sets to Appalachian.

The top doubles was one of the event’s big surprises as far as the Cats were concerned. Quinby and Boswell
were seeded sixth, which Frank called a gift considering they only won one regular season match. But they upset a
tough Citadel duo by a score of 6-4, 4-6, 6-4. After being beaten in the semis, they came back to
capture third place with another upset win in straight sets over Furman, 7-6, 6-2.

Finally, in the number two doubles, the Cat duet of Bondurant and Barnhill were seeded fourth. They too won their
opening match in three sets before losing to the top-seeded team from Appalachian in the semifinals. But theyroared back on
the final day to take a 3-6, 6-3, 6-2 comeback win over third-seeded Richmond for the playoff victory and a
third-place finish. The finish was much better and stronger than most expected the Cats to do, according to Frank. Because
of this, he is very pleased with the performances of his players. “Even though we won the tournament the first
year I was here, I don’t think I have ever had a more gratifying Southern Conference tournament,” Frank solemnly noted.
“The attitude of the team was great and they just put everything together. For the first time, we peaked at
the Tourney. We had to have a big day on the third and final day of the tournament. We did,
and that made the difference.”

On that final day, the Cats competed in nine matches and came away with seven of them, four coming over
arch-rival Furman. Steve Holman also crushed a Citadel opponent in the opening round and followed it with a straight-set win
over William & Mary’s Nick O’Hara 6-3, 6-1 in the semifinals. He then whipped another Paladin opponent, Bob Schott, 6-1,
6-7, 6-1, for the title in the sixth slot. Frank praised both these players, saying that they have each played
the “toughest tennis that they have played all year.” Each tallied eight team points for the Cats by winning their
respective divisions. Frank concluded by explaining that of the seven players who participated in the event for Davidson, three are
freshmen and another is a sophomore. “The youth of this team is what makes the finish so important and great,”
expressed Frank. “I just think everyone made a super effort when the chips were down and the pressure was on.
That’s what it’s all about.”

The Church of Conservation Invites You To Be An ORDAINED MINISTER And Acquire The Rank DOCTOR OF NATUREPEDICS

Our fast-growing church is actively seeking environment-conscious new ministers who believe what we believe: Man should exist in harmony with
nature. We are a non-structured faith, undenominational, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Benefits for ministers are:
1. Car Emblem I.D.
2. Reduced rates from many hotels, motels, restaurants, car rental agencies, etc. Our directory lists over 1,000 prestige establishments extending
an automatic cash discount.
3. Perform marriages, baptisms, funerals, and all other ministerial functions.
4. Start your own church and apply for exemption from property and other taxes.

Enclose a free-will donation for the minister's credentials and pocket license. Your ordination is recognized in all 50 states and
most foreign countries. Church of Conservation, Box 375, Mary Esther, Florida 32569.

Many Colors To Choose From 21¢ To 40¢ Each EMBOSSED BORDER & PANEL Made of Leatherine stock, 11x8½. Embossed panel
and border. Panel labels Light Blue, Red, Black, Dark Blue, Green, Orange, Brown, Yellow, White

SHEAFFER CARTRIDGE Reg. $1.00 15¢ Three Duo-Tang fasteners included. Colors: Gray, Green, Tan 89¢ .. $1.39

RIBBONS NU-KOTE TYPEWRITER Assorted Styles reg. $1.13 each SCOVILL GEM MAGNETIC Reg. $2.00 CLIP CADDY $1.79 $1.49

ELMERS 4 oz. Jar GLUE REG. 69¢ 49¢

TYPING - 100 SHEETS & carbon ON PAPER WHITE, RULED, 8½x11 Reg. LEGAL PADS 49¢

All Prices Good Through Friday, May 9, 1975 Mecklenburg Davidson, N.C. Gazette.
