Six April 10, 1975 The Davidsonian

Clapton oscillates between
By RUSSELL CARTER Staff Writer

By looking objectively at Eric Clapton’s music and career, one could generalize that it is characterized by two essential styles,
one being calm and spiritual; the other flashy and dynamic. In his best music, these elements are in harmony, complementing
each other. A good example of one of his successful songs is “Presence of the Lord,” first recorded for the
Blind Faith album and later released on the live Derek and the Dominoes and Rainbow concert albums. The song begins
with mellow chords and the words “I have finally found a way to live, in the presence of the Lord.”

Spiritual peak
The song builds slowly, reaching a musical and spiritual peak at which point Clapton unleashes a classic, power-packed, wah-wah lead
which eventually unwinds down to a peaceful refrain. When either of the important elements in Clapton’s style becomes excessive, the
resultant music suffers. In his early days, when he played with the Yardbirds, Mayall’s Blues Breakers, and Cream, (when fans
scribbled “Clapton is God” on walls throughout Europe), Clapton established a reputation as an obsessive and flashy, yet technically flawless
rock and blues guitarist. He was, at times, however, criticized for playing endless instrumental riffs which were at first impressive,
but became boring. They lacked spirit and inspiration.

A heartbreaking affair with George Harrison’s ex-wife apparently provided the necessary inspiration for Clapton’s true masterpiece: the double set “Layla”
album. In addition, the highly talented session men (including Duane Allman) sparked Eric to cook like he had never done
before.

Hard-core rock
The album is a brilliant combination of hard-core rocking (such as “Tell the Truth”) and subtle mood music (like “Thorn-tree
in the Garden”). The title song “Layla” embodies all that is good about the album and the musician in general.
The first half is a series of fast riffs played simultaneously, while the second half is slow, peaceful music played
on piano and slide guitar.

After “Layla” was released, Clapton suffered through a difficult period in his life. Apparently, he could not solve his personal
problems, and ironically his tour with Derek and the Dominoes did not stir the enthusiasm which it was certainly due.
At this point, Clapton disappeared from public view and turned to the sometimes pleasant distraction of heroin. This phase in
his life lasted for three years, being brought to an end by dwindling funds and electro-acupuncture. Recently, Clapton has...

Thursday, April 10
7 p.m. Coffeehouse: Rathskellar Michael Lewis, a singer, writer, and pianist from Canada, will perform nightly for a week.

Friday, April 11
Film (2 p.m. + 8 p.m.) Love Auditorium “The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence”
10-12 p.m. Coffeehouse: Rathskellar Michael Lewis

Saturday, April 12
8 & 10:30 p.m. Pop Film: Love Auditorium
10-1 a.m. Coffeehouse: Rathskellar Michael Lewis

Sunday, April 13
All afternoon Spring Celebration
2 p.m. Davidson National Reception Stowe
2:30 p.m. Organ Recital: DCPC Carl Schwartz
2:30 p.m. Horn Recital: Hodson Hall John Gabriel
3:15 p.m. Male Chorus Concert DCPC
3:15 p.m. Drama: Hodson Hall “Hands Across the Sea”
4 p.m. Debate Eu Hall
4 p.m. Horn Recital: Hodson Hall John Gabriel
4:30 p.m. Male Chorus Concert DCPC
4:30 p.m. Drama: Hodson Hall “Hands Across the Sea”
Latin American Symposium Morrison Rm

Monday, April 14
4 p.m. All week Davidson National Catholic Mass

Tuesday, April 15
4 p.m. Symposium Film: Morrison Room “No Time For Tears”
7 p.m. Worship Service DCPC Three cycle plays, “Cain and Abel,” “The Sons of Noah,” and “The Sacrifice of Isaac”
will be performed in the Medieval style. Directed by Frazier Marsh.
7:30 p.m. Symposium Speaker: Morrison Room William De Paula, Dept. of Languages, CPCC “Social Problems in Brazil”
8:15 p.m. Annapolis Brass QuintetHodson Hall

Founded in 1966, the Quintet played for the Naval Academy until 1970. Their program ranges from Bach to the present.

10-12 p.m. Coffeehouse: Rathskellar Michael Lewis
Wednesday, April 16

10-12 p.m. Coffeehouse: Rathskellar Michael Lewis
Thursday, April 17

4 p.m. Symposium Film: Morrison Room “Mexico: The Frozen Revolution”
The film “Cuba Va!” opens a four-day symposium with films and speakers addressing the problems facing Latin America.

7:30 p.m. Symposium Speaker: Morrison Room
Jose Yglesias, a writer of Cuban parentage, studied at Black Mountain College. He will speak on “Social Change in Cuba.”

8:15 p.m. Chamber Music: Hodson Hall
“Nocturne, Opus 5, Number 2”
Katherine Boardman and Karen Hudson-Brown, both from Charlotte, will present a program of four-hand piano music.

10-12 p.m. Coffeehouse: Michael Lewis Rathskellar

Avoiding a waxident
Graham Smith uses his crayons; he melts all eight brilliant colors.

Pete Goodman
Before the sun

Eric Clapton recently released two new albums, “461 Ocean Boulevard” and “There’s One in Every Crowd.” The albums are similar
in that they both represent Clapton's spiritual and mellow style, and they are both very inconsistent. “There’s One in Every
Crowd” was just released last month.

The first two songs on the album, “We’ve Been Told (Jesus Coming Soon)” and “Swing Low Sweet Chariot,” are disasters.
They are both traditional religious songs played with basic chordal accompaniment. One can’t avoid wondering why Clapton has stooped to
these songs when he was once able to write an original religious song like “Presence of the Lord.”

Two blues tunes (an Elmore James and a Jim Byfield) are contained on side one as well. If Clapton is
intent on curbing his famous flashy leads, he should certainly avoid old blues classics. He never plays more than basic
chords on these.

“Little Rachael”
At the beginning of “Little Rachael,” Clapton sings “If you’re down here’s what to do/hear my guitar sing to you.”
For the remainder of the song, one is left wondering when the old ’57 Strat is going to come blistering
in. It never does.

The other song on the side is “Don’t Blame Me,” which is a sequel to “I Shot the Sheriff.” If
you liked the up-tempo song from “461,” you’ll like this as well. The songs are similar.

The second side of “There’s One in Every Crowd” is an improvement over side one. The last four tunes are
all new Clapton compositions and they are all emotionally performed songs. There is a discernable Beatles influence in this new
music. “Better Make it Through the Day” sounds very similar to Harrison’s “Far East Man.” “Pretty Blue Eyes” contains beautiful
Beatle-like background vocal harmonies, and “High” and “Opposites” have slide guitar parts which sound exactly like Harrison’s slide work since
“All Things Must Pass.”

Flashy Clapton
On the back cover of the new album, an exuberant Clapton is pictured raising his hands in triumph to what
must have been an appreciative crowd response. It’s the flashy Clapton whose presence is missing in his last two releases.
On the front of the album is a picture of an incredibly wasted-looking dog with classic junkie eyes. If this
is how Clapton feels as of late, we can expect more laid-back music from him (if he continues to survive
in his post-addiction days).

Clapton has always played best with musicians who challenge him. I don’t think his low-key music will improve until he
gets together with top-notch musicians who play music of this type. The studio guitarist (George Terry) and pianist (Dick Simms)
on the last two albums play insignificant roles. Replace them with, say, Harrison and Bobby Whitlock, and I think Clapton
could once again be at the top of the rock guitar scene.
