March 20, 1975

By VINCE RABIL
Contributing Editor

The most significant works in the Davidson National are primarily concerned with medium. Indeed, Clinton Hill’s untitled work of hand-molded paper cuts to the very center of this issue with the pure aesthetic of the paper medium itself. Hill’s work is produced without the use of any external graphic depiction that is not a component of the paper itself. Freddie Fong’s “Untitled No. 1,” a lithograph, is in effect a trompe l'oeil of folded brown paper. Whereas Hill’s paper actually is paper, Fong uses paper and lithography to create the illusion of paper on paper.

“New Art”

Another paper-conscious work is Mark Pierce’s “Tea Stained Monologue, Two AM,” an intaglio-collage. Pierce exploits the avant-garde concern with the aesthetics of penmanship and incidental markings on paper. Pierce’s work may be our best example of the ‘new art.’ It reflects evidence of commonly shared life experiences in a primary concern for media.

Carol Summer’s woodcut, “Hilo Bay,” is typical of her work since before the Second World War. It uses a technique of wet-on-wet woodcut that was developed experimentally in the old WPA fine arts projects. It deals with the bleeding properties of paper.

Sue Hettmansperger’s untitled watercolor-pencil drawing is of paper and uses color. It is only secondarily about the image of paper which serves as the structural framework for her particular exploration of watercolor and pencil.

There is some exploration of metal-flake mixed inks and pigments in this show. This can be seen in Paul K. Wong’s “Agypten Theatre (Hologram),” a lithograph-screen print; in Michi Itami Zimmerman’s “Jiyu Murasaki,” an intaglio; and in its most thorough exploration in No. 136, Jo Spohn’s “Ink Cans.” Spohn is able to achieve a clarity of space and color unlike any other work in the show. This is all due to the crystalline light-holding properties of small metal particles.

Drawings

As Jackson acknowledges in the catalogue, drawings have become the major issue for the juror this year. They demonstrate a wide range of uses and techniques. The delicacy with which many of these works were handled should prove to make many of them very popular.

There is much coming to terms with color in several drawings. These range from the flashy to the more subtle: from David Kessler’s photo-real, “Doug’s Custom Trout Door Handles,” to Douglas Martin’s calligraphic ink and pencil, “Particle Size.” Other drawings dealing successfully with color are Roy Castleberry’s pastel-conte crayon, “Flesh;” and Tucker Cooke’s pencil, “April 12-Safari Lady’s National Gallery Tour with Cataract Veldt Felt.”

Serigraphy

Several serigraphs were selected. This is a stencil technique which attempts to recapture the rich pigmentation qualities found in paintings, but it has the advantage of impersonal rendering in a flat surface. Perhaps the best direct use of photography and color in this show will be seen in Raffaele De outlandish...

Demands Acute Visual Perceptionserigraph, “La Terza Cantata,” a winner of a Davidson College Purchase Award. Jo Baer’s “6” demonstrates a very tightly controlled use of serigraph. It is quite “simple” but very complex in color sensitivity. Will Barnet’s trendy, oriental, “White Stairway,” involves a highly calculated linear design with equally calculated use of color. This work is a genuine masterpiece.

This brings us to Jim Nawara’s gargantuan serigraph: “Mound Vicinity.” Although this domineering work shows ambition and is based on a very stable abstract pattern of dots and splotches, it actually comes off as a tacky, worm-eaten billboard which has been erected in the lobby as a gimmick to “kick” the show. I do not believe it “kicks” the show as much as the other works in effect kick it. The careful observer may detect many derivations and influences in this show. Some of the big-name artists to whom many of these works are directly in debt include M.C. Escher, Albrecht Durer, Hans Hartung, Andy Warhol, Tom Wesselmann, Robert Rauschenberg, Matisse, Miro, Mondrian, Pollock, and the Dutch Baroque masters, of whom Vermeer’s influence in the handling of light is readily apparent in many works.

John Noel Riefel’s “Buffalo,” an etching-aquatint, looks like it may be the cover of your next album by Jefferson Airplane. It should be very popular indeed. Other works in the show could be grouped in the categories of fairy tale fantasy, humorous, paranoid, psychotic, pop, nostalgia, still life, and landscape.

Apparently, Judith Goldman is not falling for the Museum of Modern Art’s sixties’ attempt to artificially inseminate the art world with op art. For the first time, there is scarcely a single piece of op art in a Davidson National. Neither will we find any examples of conceptual or idea art, kinesthesia-producing works, collage gimmickry, or prints that move into the realm of sculpture by the heavy use of embossing techniques. As one student who assisted the juror said, “Judith called bullshit on all that stuff.”

Throughout my analysis of the show, I have tried to emphasize the uses of media. However, there are a few works which achieve a beautiful equilibrium between the psychological-connotative qualities of their media and the iconographic meaning of their creation. It is in these precious few works that we get a feeling for the content of the literary and other story-telling commentaries in hundreds of rejected entries.

These works, I believe, are so masterfully done that I urge you to see them and let them speak for themselves. They include: No. 102, Phillippe Mohlitz’s “La Fin du Voyage;” No. 88, Bruce Lowney’s “Monument to Nature;” No. 100, James W. Merrill’s “Trench Warfare in the Twenty-First Century;” No. 2, Martin W. Anderson’s “Alfred Nobel and His Prize” (explosives); No. 12, young Robert James Birle’s “Victim of Armageddon;” Bill Brauer’s “Solstice” (a starving young girl covered in a blanket richly embroidered with vegetation); Sidney Chafetz’s “The Negative and Positive Aspects of Immortality;” Warrington Colescott’s “The First Thanksgiving” (in which the figures at the top are arranged to spell WITCH); and Judy Youngblood’s “Getting Loaded.”