the davidsonian
September 26, 1975

Leon Venable

Harris blasts slug uneducated,
By SCOTT REID
Staff Writer

“One of the functions of a good liberal arts college is to get people out of the back of their
personas and to get them to react in a good, spontaneous, bloodied way,” said syndicated newspaper columnist Sydney J. Harris,
criticizing Davidson. “I think there is a terrible fear of sounding wrong, or callow, or presumptuous. Part of that is
a dumb vanity because anybody who is interesting and curious is going to say a certain number of dumb things.

“You just simply have to take that social risk in order to be interesting, in order to reach somebody, in
order to transmit something back and forth.

“If you are careful, and quiet, and guarded all the time, you're never going to get anywhere either.”

The husky-voiced newspaper columnist paused a moment to inhale briefly on one link of a chain of cigarettes. Exhaling, he
continued.

“So you've got to have a little social risk and get pushed into a little give and take.

“And I think one of the functions of a school ought to be to teach kids, many of whom have
come from very inhibited households where they never said anything for fear of offending someone, to speak up.

HARRISISMS: “A good school ought to unconstipate its students.”

Debaters rank 10th among colleges
By GIL CULBERTSON
Staff Writer

“Five years ago we had nothing. There were only two boys, entirely on their own, debating at Davidson,” commented Jean
Cornell, Professor of Drama and Speech. Cornell is proud that, from a humble beginning, Davidson's debate team has climbed to
its present position as the tenth ranked small college program in the nation. The ratings, compiled by a professor at
California State, are based on overall won-lost records and performances in individual events, such as impromptu, after dinner and persuasive
speaking.

The success of last year's team, which was the first in the college’s history to rate in the top ten
schools, was due largely to the efforts of Gorden Widenhouse and Paul Mitchell at the varsity level and Mark Gergen,
Randy Sherrill and Steve Smith in novice competition. These debaters, along with Rick Roylance in individual events, were primarily responsible
for the team sweepstakes award at three major North Carolina tournaments.

Two of the problems which the forensic program faces at Davidson are limited finances and scarcity of time to devote
to the research efforts needed to build a highly competitive program on the national level. “We certainly have a considerable
amount of debating talent on this campus,” explained Widenhouse, who is captain of this year’s team. “But we do not
have the time to devote to debate that people have at some schools which place less emphasis on academic achievement.

“We are also very deficient on money, compared to other schools with which we compete. It makes things rather difficult
sometimes. There are some schools that give as many as eight full scholarships for debaters. Competing against those odds is
rough.”

“There are a lot of really good debaters on this campus not participating because we cannot afford to send them
to good tournaments,” said Gergen. “If we had not obtained funds from the Senate last year, we would have been
forced to bypass a tournament that turned out to be one of our most successful performances.”

The program works with a $4500 budget, which must last the entire year. Expenses aside from tournament entry fees which
must be met include lodging, food and travel.

Connors
By PHILIP DUNCAN
Staff Writer

“School officials keep telling me that my role is important, and I’m willing to believe them. It seems that any
moron could do a lot of the busywork that’s required in my job,” said Assistant to the Vice President for
Development, Mark Connors.

Connors, a 1975 Davidson graduate, recently accepted the newly created post of Assistant to the Vice President of Development. Connors’
primary duty is the coordination of research within the development department. “Many of my duties are secretarial and occasionally border
on the trivial. I'm not able to inject my personality or talents into the job.”

“I gained a great deal from being a hall counselor and freshman advisor. My interests center around people, and I
feel unsettled in this job which Despite the meager budget, the team does have an optimistic outlook for the coming
year. The national resolution is Resolved: thatThe Federal government should adopt a comprehensive program to control land use in the
United States. Sixteen students, eight men and eight women, arrived on campus ten days prior to the start of classes
to attend a workshop in the hopes of getting a better start on the topic. Both Cornell and Widenhouse thought
the workshop was successful and expect much success in the coming months. “I think we have the capability to improve
upon our achievements from the past few years and perhaps break into a more competitive class of debating competition,” noted
Widenhouse. “I think that if we prove our ability both more consistently and through greater successes against higher caliber opposition,
we will be in a better position to look for increased funding for the program.” As for the coming year’s
competition, Widenhouse felt that Wake Forest and UNC-G would be the primary opponents Davidson will have to contend with in
North Carolina. “UNC-G always has something up its sleeve and it is a very heated rivalry,” he said. “And as
our captain from last year truthfully noted, ‘They are always a pain in the tail.’”

"You're not going to die if you speak up. God isn’t going to strike you down. If you don't, it
makes for a very constipated environment. A good school ought to unconstipate its students.” Harris believes that 90 percent of
every college faculty in the United States today are made up of people who are not educated. “They may know
their field, or they may not, but they know very little outside it. And they have no idea what the
ultimate aim of education is.” That aim Harris sees as the process of instilling students with a system of values.
The uneducated faculty (“They're trained, not educated.”) do not know how their field relates to any other. They do not
have a hierarchy of values. The problem of the uneducated faculty Harris attributes not to the colleges, but to this
country’s cultural-economic set-up. “If we had a well-run society, we would conduct searches for natural-born teachers as assiduously as we
do for football stars or pop singers. “I think that the gift of teaching is a grace like musical talent,
or mathematical ability, or any other grace that you are born with.” The problem of low-quality education or journalism Harris
says cannot be intelligently talked about without discussion of the larger society they reflect. “The Jeffersonian concept of democracy was
that eventually everybody would be raised to the highest potential, everyone has to demand the best, everyone has to know
what the meaning of excellence is. Either that, or you have a ‘mediocracy.’ That is what has happened.” (See HARRIS,
page 15)

Connors finds niche in boring work presents few opportunities for personal contact. “I am not at all involved in one-to-one
sessions with prospective contributors,” Connors says. Connors is presently accumulating and organizing the files of the school which pertain to
financial support and development. These files have been scattered amongst various offices of the school’s administration, and the consolidation of
the data will facilitate the vital fund-raising efforts at Davidson. “Though removed from the first lines, I am a part
of the administration and can see first-hand some of the problems at Davidson,” Connors remarked. “The school’s most serious problem,
I feel, is the unbelievable salaries paid here.” He hinted that his earnings were anything but exorbitant, but said he
had in mind the pay scale for the College's teachers. “How Davidson can expect to attract and retain leading educators
at the present rate of pay is beyond my comprehension. The priorities of the development department need to be shifted
and more money allocated for teachers’ salaries. Quality instructors don’t come cheaply.” When Connors took the job of Assistant, the
responsibilities of the new post were nebulous. But he did expect to be more than a bookkeeper. “When I was
hired I believe they expected me to remain for at least three years, but that's now out of the question.
I can’t imagine staying more than two years, maybe not that long.” “After I leave Davidson I hope to become
involved with helping people in some form of social service, maybe VISTA or the Peace Corps.” Graduate studies do not
figure into his immediate plans, but enrollment in grad school is a future goal.
