Thirteen Assertion (Photo by Pete Goodman) Eppa Rixey rises above all competition in the Virginia game. Horowitz moves into position
to rebound. Jimmy, the Freek Cats Fight Challenging Odds Against Break-Even Season

A late bulletin is just in: the NCAA basketball committee has decided to award Davidson College’s basketball team 3 wins
for every one they get on the road! It’s only fair because this “Freek” a couple of weeks ago came
up with a “logical” estimate of an 18-7 record for this season. Well, that does seem rather remote now, doesn’t
it? Well, maybe we can string together 14 straight wins and still win the Southern Conference. As Don Adams used
to say on Get Smart, would you believe an at-large berth in the NCAA tournament? Would you believe a special
3-game tournament at Easter with UNCC? Would you believe a fundraiser with the Mooresville YMCA? I have been informed that
the correct answer is e, none of the above.

I was very impressed in the Notre Dame game with the play of Adrian Dantley. I feel sorry for those
of you that missed him, because I doubt that he will be back in ’77. He’ll undoubtedly snap at $??
million. (The question marks enable the reader to fill in their own figure; who knows how many digits they'll be
into in two years?) I think a team like Notre Dame can psyche you out with their fight song, warm-ups,
and the coaches’ green shoes. Speaking of psyche jobs; how about last Saturday night as St. Johns employed toothpicks and
woolen caps. It did not phase the Wildcats as they beat a very good team. It reminded me of the
Ohio State game except this time, I think the team is ready for a turn-around and possibly eying a .500
season. However, Davidson visits South Carolina in the “pit” and a victory looks doubtful. But after that, look for the
Cats to run off at least a couple of victories in a row.

Since I waited until Monday night to write this paragraph, there was no way I was going to change the
rest of this article. But, due to the Virginia game, some of the above statements have been cancelled! They should
have also cancelled the first half of that game, due to lack of interest. No further comment!

On to the national basketball scene, where UCLA (who else) looks like the team to beat again. Indiana should be
the Mideast representative. It really doesn’t matter who comes from the Midwest and N.C. State should survive the East regional.
Many fans will question State’s ability to get out of the ACC, but I still think they will beat out
Maryland for that honor. If you want to rate teams, don’t look at the polls. Take for example Louisville. They
beat West Texas State by 2, Bradley by 6 in overtime, and Cincinnati by 8. If that deserves to be
#3; I’d say half the pollsters are from the staff of Sports Illustrated.

If you note an absence of odds and spreads so far in this article, it is because I have decided
to invade C.A. and Y.B.’s territory and give my thoughts on the intramural basketball season. (However, I’ll stay out of
Slagle’s territory and the B league.) In Division I, the Kerwood Derbies and SAE are both 6-5 shots to win
the division. Division II has the Indians as a solid even money bet, as are the Gozinyas in III. Division
IV has at least three teams that can legitimately claim to 5-2 odds: The Old Rooneys, IFT, and Six Pack.
As the season progresses to the play-offs, I’ll be making occasional spreads on key games. (Also, I’ll throw in a
mismatch game once in a while. With a high spread to look at, at least the freshmen will know approximately
how bad they'll get smeared before they even get to the gym.) In the long-range forecast, my crystal ball shows
the Gozinyas as the early 2-1 favorites to win it all. Sorry “Rodge”!

Tonight’s action looks like this: Twinkes by 15 over the Penthouse Sweets, Faculty A by 18 over Cannon II, and
Beetle Leg by 12 over PAX.

Cats Play Wildly, Break Losing Streak
By CHARLIE SLAGLE
Staff WriterThe Davidson basketball team ended a losing streak and may have started another in their games against St. John’s
and Virginia. These two games were classic examples of the way Davidson has played all year. In the Wildcats’ 81-77
victory against the Redmen of St. John’s last Saturday night, Davidson fell behind in the first half and had to
be careful that the Redmen did not run them out of the coliseum. The biggest lead the New Yorkers could
muster, however, was only ten points, and by half-time, that bulge was narrowed to five at 44-39. The Cats began
running more in the second half, narrowing the lead St. John’s had enjoyed. Led by the play of Larry Horowitz,
the Wildcats took the lead at 61-59 with just over 11 minutes left to play. At this point, Davidson held
on to their lead, finding what had eluded them for their last eight games, a victory. Horowitz was 12 for
18 from the floor, missing none of his eight free throws, and pulling down seven rebounds. Greg Dunn achieved a
personal goal when he scored a field goal in the first half to propel him over the 1000 point mark
as a Davidson player. Dunn was the Cats’ second leading scorer with 13. Jay Powell had 12 points, and Eppa
Rixey contributed eleven in one of his best games in a Davidson uniform.

Virginia Slowed Tempo

The Virginia game started in a fashion similar to that of the St. John’s game, but in slow motion. The
tempo of the game was very slow, neither team being able to speed it up. At halftime, the Wildcats trailed
the Terry Holland coached Cavaliers 28-20. Davidson then began to run early in the second half, and with eight minutes
remaining, the Cats had built a seven point lead at 47-40. The pace of the game then calmed once more,
and the Cavaliers came back. With 2:30 remaining the University of Virginia tied the score at 54 on a tip
by Mark Newlen. Powell connected both ends of a one and one to put the Cats back on top with
just over two minutes remaining. Virginia came right back to knot the score at 56 with a little under two
minutes remaining. Kevin Doherty was called for a five second violation, and Davidson got the ball back after it went
out of bounds. Doherty, however, got another five second violation call, and he lost this jump to Virginia. With over
a minute remaining in the game, Virginia stalled for the last shot. With three seconds remaining, guard Andy Boninti took
a long 22-foot desperation shot. Dan Bonner rebounded and threw the ball back up from ten feet at the buzzer
to win the game. Virginia successfully slowed the game down against the Wildcats. Davidson had the advantage when they controlled
a brisker tempo, but the Cats lost control of the floor after taking a 47-40 lead. One of Virginia’s big
men was substitute Mark Newlen. His hustle kept the Cavaliers close in the last minutes. Newlen ended up with eight
points. High for the Cavaliers were Boninti and the game-winning Bonner with 12 apiece. Powell led Davidson with 14 points.
The only other Wildcat in double figures was Doherty.

Cats Face USC

The Wildcats' next game will be tomorrow night at the unfriendly courts of South Carolina in Columbia.
