October 17, 1975

the davidsonian.

Five returnees spark net optimism

By CLIFF GARDINER
Staff Writer

The 1976 varsity men’s tennis team returns five of the top six singles players from last year’s team.

On the goal: Cat halfback John Morrissey crosses the goal line for a touchdown.

However, it is possible that some of these players might be displaced from the top six. Coach Jeff Frank stressed
that possibility, saying, “As far as I’m concerned, it’s a wide-open team next spring, largely based on what we’ll see
this fall.”

Senior John Mitchell, junior Steve Holman, and sophomores Chip Bondurant, Mike Barnhill, and Stewart Boswell, played regularly in the top
six last season.

Sophomores Brian Cooper and Steve Johnson played in several matches last year, both in singles and doubles competition. “Both boys
are capable of earning a position in the top six,” said Frank.

Four freshmen team members will be contending for the same berths. They are Gil Kayton from Hampton, Va., Tom Shelly
from Dublin, Ireland, John Trout from Fruitland Park, Fla., and Andy White from Birmingham, Ala.

Frank expects to have “great depth and balance” on this team.

“On a given day our number nine or ten man might take a set off our number one or two
man,” remarked Frank.

Frank predicted that this situation would provide healthy competition within the team. He emphasized the importance of each player working
hard in fall practice. “Every player is going to have to discipline himself, work hard and stay in shape in
the first part of the season in order to end up in the top six.”

In regard to Davidson’s hopes in the Southern Conference, Frank believes that every team in the conference will be improved
from last year. Making the competition tougher for Davidson is the fact that every Southern Conference team except Davidson offers
tennis scholarships.

In spite of that, said Frank, Davidson could fare rather well in the Conference. According to Frank, Furman will be
favored to finish first, with Appalachian State, William and Mary, and Davidson bunched together behind them.

Richmond and the Citadel are predicted to finish probably slightly behind those four teams.

Frank cited Davidson’s third-place finish in the Conference last year, the return of seven lettermen, and the strong freshman players
as plus marks for the team. He also noted that Davidson's tentative schedule, with 23 home matches, and only three
away matches, could be an advantage.

Bears thrash Cat gridders, 69-14

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

The Lenoir Rhyne football squad rolled up 914 yards offensively Saturday to soundly defeat the Davidson Wildcats 69-14.

The Lenoir Rhyne offense, gaining 837 yards on the ground and 77 yards passing, accumulated a total offense figure surpassing
the present NCAA University and College Division records.

These figures will not be written in the books, however, as Lenoir Rhyne is not a member of the NCAA.

Scott Crawford led the Bears with 247 yards rushing. The offense did, however, commit five turnovers. In addition, 11 penalties
subtracted 135 yards from the Bear offense.

Davidson managed its best offensive showing of the season with 202 yards rushing on 43 carries, and 233 yards total
offense. The 14 points Davidson scored also was a Wildcat seasonal high.

Freshman Terrell Rhye scored in the first half on a 37-yard run, and another freshman, John Morrissey, added the second
touchdown on a 14-yard run in the fourth quarter. Joe Duncan added both extra points.

The Davidson offense picked up 100 yards rushing from the fullback position, as Senior Steve Stec ran for 53 yards
on 10 rushes, and Rhye added 47 yards on 6 carries.

Davidson Coach Ed Farrell will make several lineup changes in an effort to strengthen the Wildcats this Saturday in the
homecoming game against the Citadel.

On offense, freshman Jon Harté will start at left guard.

Defensively, sophomore John Huie will start at left tackle, and Chris Crosby, another freshman, will be on the first team
at the right end.

“Some of these changes are because of injuries and some others are as a result of players who did not
play well,” Farrell said.

“We have some players who are capable, but did not play well last week, and there are some who have
progressed to the point that they should see more action.”

The Citadel, which lost last week to East Carolina, 3-0, is 8-2 overall and 1-1 in the Southern Conference.

“They are tough offensively and defensively,” Farrell remarked. “Offensively they miss Andy Johnson (Johnson was the nation’s sixth leading rusher
in 1974, and was hurt in The Citadel’s 16-0 loss to Colgate), but they’ve still got some pretty good people.
One of the surprising things about them is that they are very good passing off of the veer offense. You
don’t see too many teams do that,” said Farrell.

Defensively, the Citadel, led by linebacker Brian Ruff, has only allowed 32 points in five games.

The Citadel ranks third nationally in scoring defense, behind Arizona and Texas A&M.

This will be the Citadel’s first trip to Davidson since 1971. Kickoff is scheduled for 2 P.M. on Richardson Field.

XMAS IN EUROPE. Call or write Educational Flights of N.C. Inc; Box 5385, University Station; Raleigh, N.C. 27607 919-833-2111

Parks Rexall Drugs

COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION
SNACK BAR SPECIAL

HAMBURGER & PEPSI
FRIDAY 10/17 - THURSDAY 10/23

First Union National Bank

Halloween Cards

When you care enough to send the very best

© 1975 Hallmark Cards, Inc.
