September 26, 1975

the davidsonian

-Leon Venable

... Harris parties

(continued from page 2)

Harris used a typical evening cocktail party as an example of the mediocrity of American society.

“You get the people together at a party and the talk there is simply appalling. You wouldn't believe it—the crab grass, the golf scores, the crap and the crap. And you'd think these people are absolute nothings.

“If you take them out to dinner, couple by couple, and talk to them, you find out that there is a lot more there to them. They’ve got ideas, they've got imagination, their standards are better; but this is all private.

“When they get together nobody wants to hurt anyone’s feelings, nobody wants to have an argument, nobody wants to be thought different.

“And so everyone stays at a very safe, comfortable, benign, dull level, even when individually they are much brighter and more sensitive than you would ever imagine from seeing them as a group.”

He noted that Robert Hutchens said that “education is education about values, or it is nothing.” He then concluded with a thought as to where those values must come from.

“Education on values does not come from the schools. It comes from the rest of the country. The schools take their color from the country.”

9” PIZZA
$1.70

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION
SNACK BAR SPECIAL

FRIDAY 9/26 -

BELGIAN WAFFLE
$.90

FRIDAY 10/4

$33,500,000

Over $33,500,000 unclaimed scholarships, grants, aids, and fellowships ranging from $50 to $10,000. Current list of these sources researched and compiled as of September 5, 1975.

Master Charge
Interbank No

UNCLAIMED SCHOLARSHIPS
369 Allen Avenue, Portland, Maine 04103
I am enclosing $12.95 plus $1.00 for postage and handling.

(Check or money order—no cash, please.)
If you wish to use your charge card, please fill out appropriate boxes below

Expiration Date

PLEASE RUSH YOUR CURRENT LIST OF UNCLAIMED SCHOLARSHIPS SOURCES TO:

Credit Card No
Name

State

Maine residents please add 5% sales tax.

... secretaries desire benefits

(continued from page 3)

revamping of the various job categories is needed.

“It would be nice if the administration would come up with a committee composed partly of secretaries and partly of administrators in order to reevaluate these job descriptions,” said one secretary.

“Everyone would like to see something concerning these job descriptions in writing, but we want what’s written down to be clear and unambiguous,” remarked another secretary.

Stephenson, on the other hand, maintains that the bulk of the employment policies are formulated and need only “to be gathered together into the handbook.”

“The faculty has long had access to the college’s tuition exchange program. It provides us with the benefit of allowing our children to come to Davidson, if accepted, tuition-free.

“Furthermore, our children may attend tuition-free various other universities and colleges which are partners with Davidson in the tuition exchange program,” explained one faculty member.

Members of the college hourly-paid staff are not eligible to participate in the tuition exchange program.

“They qualify for the waiver of tuition payment for dependent children accepted for admission to Davidson College,” stated Stephenson.

The Chambermaids maintain that they are in need of some type of financial assistance to help defray the costs of financing their children’s college educations.

THIS AIN'T NO BALONEY!

1/3 OFF SCHOOL SUPPLIES TO COLLEGE STUDENTS PRESENTING THEIR I.D.'s

(Offer Good Through October 1)

Your Alternative Supply Store

The Mecklenburg Gazette

On Main Street Between The M & M and The Village Store

“Many of the secretaries’ children can’t gain admittance at Davidson but still want to attend college.

“Many of the girls feel, especially with the salaries we make—even lower than the professors—that we need financial help,” commented a secretary.

Although a majority of the secretaries interviewed expressed an interest in being eligible for the tuition exchange program, many agreed that “the establishment of a loan program would greatly ease the financial burden of meeting the costs of their children’s college tuition bills.”

Stephenson agreed that the availability of the tuition waiver system was “a step in the right direction.”

The Chambermaids meet twelve times annually.