the davidsonian
October 31, 1975

PINCKNEY
Cat harriers

By MARK POSTOVE
Staff Writer

During the last two weeks, Davidson’s cross country team hosted a four-way meet and participated in the North Carolina Collegiate Cross Country Championships in Raleigh, N.C. On Oct. 18, the Wildcats defeated High Point 25-30, but were overcome by a strong Wake Forest team 34-22 and were edged 26-29 by Georgia State.

Junior Co-captain Coty Pinckney covered the muddy six-mile course in 32:37 and finished second overall behind Georgia State’s Wayne Roach. He moved into second place in the first mile and held that position throughout the race, gradually increasing his lead over four Wake Forest runners that took third through sixth at the finish.

Senior Fred Borch was Davidson’s second man, taking eighth place in 33:34, and was followed by freshman Doug Horn in tenth place with a time of 33:50. Junior John Barksdale and sophomore Steve Justus rounded out the Cats’ top five, with respective times of 35:10 and 35:36. Davidson had defeated High Point at the beginning of the year but had lost a close meet to Georgia State a week later. Most of the runners were disappointed with the results of the meet. “Wake Forest was just too strong, but we should have beaten Georgia State,” one of them commented. The race was the last of the regular season and left the team with an overall record of 10-8, the best of any of Davidson’s fall sports teams.

Last Saturday morning, the Wildcats finished 9th out of 14 teams participating in the North Carolina State meet with Duke, N.C. State, UNC, and Appalachian taking the top four places.

Pinckney took 39th overall in 27:02 over the five-mile course, bettering his performance of last year in which he ran 27:53 for 69th place. Horn finished 46th in 27:18 and Borch 52nd in 27:23. Justus ran 28:37 and Jay Silver broke into the top five for the first time this year with a 29:43. Barksdale did not run, choosing instead to rest for the upcoming conference meet. Dick “show me the real cross country course” Boehner made his debut a rather unfortunate one. He was running fifth for Davidson when he made a wrong turn on the course and was disqualified with only half a mile to go in the race.

“The last two years we finished 12th of 12 teams, so I guess you could say we improved pretty much,” commented head coach Sterling Martin. “We approached the meet with a relaxed attitude, and we did as well as I had expected us to do. We had three guys under 27:30, whereas last year our third man ran 28:32, more than a minute slower.”

The harriers wind up their season this Saturday at East Carolina in the conference meet. Martin summed up the team’s chances: “William and Mary, Furman, Appalachian, and Richmond pretty much have the top four wrapped up. Realistically, we should take at least sixth, with a shot at fifth place. We have already beaten the Citadel and East Carolina this year, but we have not met VMI. Pinckney is our only returnee from last year’s top five, so we hope we can at least equal our sixth-place finish of a year ago.”

Practice keys Borch’s improvement

By MARK POSTOVE
Staff Writer

Three years ago, a slightly overweight freshman decided to go out for Davidson’s cross country team. He had never run cross country or track before, having only played tennis onhis high school team. He finished last for the Wildcats in every meet, with 36:36 as his best five-mile time. Today, this same person, now a senior and 45 pounds lighter, is battling for the number two position on the squad. One month ago at St. Andrews he ran five miles in 25:49, the second fastest time ever by a Davidson student over that distance. Fred Borch offers a simple explanation for his amazing success: “It’s a change in attitude.” Of course, plenty of hard work has not hurt him any. Borch ran 50 to 60 miles a week this summer, and runs as much as 16 miles a day in cross country workouts. “But my improvement is not due just to running a lot more miles,” Borch counters. “I try to take the most positive attitude I can toward running. I feel that it gives me the chance to express God-given qualities, and is not just a means of self-glorification. Instead of seeking to impress, I try to express,” he summarized.

Borch actually began running the summer before his freshman year. “I started running at the beach,” he explained. “It gave me such a feeling of relaxation and good health.” Borch convinced his younger brother, Chris, to start running. At the time, Chris was a junior in high school. The next year, Chris’s team won the North Carolina State Cross Country Championship. Chris is now one of the top runners at Furman where he is a sophomore.

“I was last on the team both my freshman and sophomore years,” Borch admitted. “My best five-mile time freshman year was 36:36, and sophomore year it was 30:00.” “I can recall some meets in which everybody else had finished for several minutes, and the officials had started taking down the chute at the finish line. Then Fred would come running out of the woods, kicking it in,” claimed senior co-captain Bill Cole.

Borch began to improve, running a 4:35 mile during track season his sophomore year. But he was better known for his antics during practice than his performance in meets. “He had one pair of practice shorts which he wore every day for two straight months, without washing them,” one of his teammates recalled. “They were white to begin with, but almost black at the end. They were just gross looking!”

Borch spent his junior year in England, where he ran in either the first or second position on the East Anglia team. “It was easier to improve there since I had a place on the team,” Borch explained. “It gave me a lot more self-confidence.” “My best time that year for five miles was 27:30. I called Coach Martin over the summer and told him about it. Frankly, I don’t think he believed me.”

Borch has become accustomed to people’s reactions of disbelief. “Most of the guys on the team didn’t believe I’d be in the top five,” Borch remarked. “They know it’s still the same Fred Borch, though, because my ankles still crack,” he added, referring to the fact that at each step his ankles make a tremendous popping sound.

Borch has been the number two or three man for Davidson in every meet so far this year. “Without him, the team would not have gotten off the ground,” cross country coach Sterling Martin said. “Considering where he started, he has made a fantastic improvement. I’ve been pleasantly surprised all along.”

“His performance at St. (See BORCH, page 11)