Re, - October 24, 1975

The Davidsonian

New grid policy slated to revitalize weak offense

By DAVE FAGG
Staff Writer

After showing little to no offense in its first four games, Davidson's head coach Ed Farrell has decided to make
some changes in the Wildcat playbook.

“My coaching staff and I met, and we decided to put something new into our offense,” Farrell said. “We want
to take advantage of our strengths and talent.”

“We have made the decision that since our quarterbacks are not good runners, they should not be in on running
plays,” Farrell announced. “We have also decided that the fullback is not needed on passing plays since we never throw
to him.”

On the non-quarterback running plays, the halfback and the fullback will stand where the center can snap the ball to
either one. This will eliminate the quarterback falling down and bad handoffs. Farrell believes that this will confuse the opponent’s
defense. “They won’t know what the hell we’re doing.”

Farrell has also added a new passing formation to enable the use of the fine talents of center Chip Howell.
“Believe it or not, Chip is one of the fastest players on the team and he has tremendous moves and
hands,” Farrell proudly boasted. “He is not only a fine center, but he can also catch almost any pass.”

The Cats plan to unleash their new strategy in a coming practice session to be held Sunday afternoon with the
Charlotte Hornets of the now-defunct World Football League. “I think that our first scrimmage with the new system should be
a great success,” Farrell said with obvious enthusiasm. “Especially when you consider that the Hornets will not be able to
play, since the team has disbanded.”

With such conditions prevalent, the Cats hope to be mentally prepared for their important contest with Kenyon. Removal of players
to improve the team was a bitter pill for some.

Citing lack of Cat rack, Farrell sets up training bed

Ed Farrell, head football coach, established a training bed to supplement the training table. Farrell had introduced the idea of
a training table two weeks ago. This was set up to...

“If It Happened, You Will Read It In The Davidson Update.”?!?

If I, Buck Lawrimore, believed that, we would be publishing weekly. But we aren't. Here are a few of the
things we do differently: We follow the Wildcat Club. (The Davidsonian doesn’t give a damn.) Unfortunately, you’re missing a lot
of “news.” We print death notices, alumni promotions, and Sam’s ideas.of program and policy. (The Davidsonian assumes that Davidson is
not perfect.) We don’t probe so deep and only point out the good things to promote Davidson's reputation. We give
you the best deals on Davidson ties, blazers, and rocking chairs— (Subscriptions are free!) Which is the point of all
this. We want you to keep up with the Davidson image. Since The Davidsonian won't update you, we will! That’s
our job.

Love, assure that the football players received a protein-rich diet. Since that time Davidson has lost 69-14 to Lenoir Rhyne
and in that game set a NAIA record, giving up 914 total yards. Last week the gridders held on to
a 44-0 loss to the Citadel. According to the training bed plan, all players will be moved from the dorms
to the bunk beds under the grandstands of Richardson field. The football players will sleep as a group.

“The training bed is a rather drastic step,” Farrell admitted, “but I believe that the team’s performance warrants the action.”
Players will be allowed to be free from 8:00 AM to 1:00 PM and from 8:00 to 9:00 in the
evening. The players voted to adopt the “training bed” lifestyle on a trial basis.

“I like the idea now,” said one football player. “I wasn’t too wild about the idea of having someone rack
me each night.” One unique characteristic of the system is an arrangement Farrell has worked out with the Language Lab,
to have sleep-learning tapes and tape equipment available.

“Not only can course material be learned, but we also have what we call our ‘attitude tape’ drill. This tape
explains football plays, with football cheers in the background. The tape ends with the cheer ‘Go, go, go...,’” said Farrell.

“Unfortunately some players have had their physical problems. Plastic sheets have been placed on cell mattresses. This was not the
type of training bed we had originally envisioned,” said Farrell. Most football players felt that the mandatory training table and
bed are constructive moves toward establishing winning teams. They also noted the convenience of having living quarters so close to
Richardson field, the gymnasium, and the practice field.

“It is too early to tell whether the training bed is working, but we have looked at films of the
training table. I was satisfied with the passing game, but there was too much rushing at the food,” Farrell said.

Ron Scott of ARA Slater administers the ‘training table’ and has been instrumental in food preparation. “The Slater food is
strongly offensive, but we have developed a new strategy. We let Ron take the kickbacks,” said Farrell. “Ron has indirectly
helped create a decent running game. Many of our players know what the runs are now.”

Farrell credits the idea of the training bed to Tom Couch who has scouted the Fort Bragg Army installation. “Of
course the key to the whole football program lies in the hands of the coaches,” Farrell said. “We spend a
lot of time patting each other on the back.”
