the davidsonian

September 26, 1975

-Pete Goodman

PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT: Davidson football players polish up their skills in preparation for Saturday’s clash with VMI.

Cats open grid slate tomorrow

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

Davidson opens the 1975 football season this Saturday in Lexington, Va. against VMI, in a game which may seem predictable, but could produce some surprises.

The Wildcats, 2-7 last year, will unveil a new offense and with some new players to help run it.

The new offense is the Wing-T, which has been used successfully by Delaware and Notre Dame. To be successful it requires strong performances by several freshmen.

Head Coach Ed Farrell’s Wildcats’ quarterback position will be shared by two freshmen, Bill Wolar and Sid Osborne, both of whom have been impressive during fall practice.

Another freshman, John Morrissey, will join senior running backs Larry Hardaway and Steve Stec in the backfield in an effort to improve on last year’s mild rushing attack.

The Wildcats’ defense is also sporting a new look, the 5-2 defense in contrast to last year’s 4-3. This is a move which should help to control the run.

The defensive line and the linebackers are an experienced group. But question marks lie with the defensive backfield, where two freshmen, Chris Boslet and Lee Wilder will start, along with senior Mike Eubanks and junior Jim Nichols.

In the Keydets, 0-2, after tough one-point losses to Delaware (10-9), and Virginia, (22-21), the Wildcats face an impressive foe. The defending Southern Conference champions, VMI has been picked to finish near the top again this year.

The Keydets depended on a staunch defense in their drive to the 1974 title. This year they will complement it with a more effective offense.

VMI's offense, under the direction of Mark Lambert (9 of 10 for 92 yards against Virginia) has both speed and power. The power is furnished by running backs Kim Glidewell, whose 1974 total rushing of 764 yards was only 12 yards short of the Davidson team total, and Keith Gibbans, who ran for 94 yards on 18 carries against Virginia.

The speed is supplied by wide receiver Ronnie Moore, a two-time all-conference selection who holds several league punt and kickoff return records.

The Keydet defense is an experienced crew. Led by honorable mention All-American middle guard Phil Upton, VMI returns most of last year’s defensive unit.

Farrell appraised Saturday’s competition by saying, “VMI is an easy team to prepare for on paper, but difficult to prepare for on the field because they are the type of team--offensively and defensively--that lines up and plays ‘here we are--what are you going to do about it?’ football. We've got to play that way, too.”

Spaceghost plays for fun

By DAVE WILEY
Staff Writer

Davidson College is loaded with talent.

The academic prowess of the student body is well known. The athletic credentials are also impressive.

Every year outstanding high school athletes find their way to Davidson only to be frustrated by the competition. Anyone who has played IMAC basketball can vouch for the number of top-notch players. It is comforting therefore, that, even at this institution which so emphasizes ability, there is still a place for those of us who have to work and scrape and hustle for a little bit of success.

Bill Vaughan plays inside fullback for the Davidson soccer team, a position which requires good speed and ball handling ability.

He has neither.

“Bill is probably our weakest link as far as talent is concerned,” says soccer coach Chip Stone. “But he’s always in there scrapping. Somehow he gets the job done.”

The senior tri-captain’s main responsibility is to cover one of the opponents’ two top offensive players in the Wildcats’ man-to-man defense.

“We're supposed to stick to our men and break up the play before it gets started,” said Vaughan. “I just do the best I can.”

Apparently his best is good enough, since he is a starter for the fourth consecutive year.

“There have been many times when I’ve said ‘There’s no way he can stay with his man!” Stone commented. “But he always does.”

Vaughan and Gary Dancigar, the other inside fullback, provide an interesting contrast in style. Dancigar is a very smooth player with excellent technique. Stone grimaces at the thought of Vaughan’s form.

“But when he knocks the ball away by just sticking out his foot, what can you say?” he commented.

On his strengths, Vaughan said, “I have a good foot. And heading the ball is my game.”

Stone agrees.

“Bill does a good job controlling the ball in the air,” he said. “This prevents the opposition from getting a long run or a one-on-one situation against us.”

‘Spaceghost,’ as Vaughan is called by his teammates, plays soccer for the fun of it.

“This is the last chance I'll have to play,” he commented. “And that’s all the more reason to enjoy myself.” “Vaughan is crazy,” noted Stone. “He has an utter disregard for his body. One thing he does not lack is enthusiasm.”

Vaughan is optimistic about the current season.

“We have a good team,” he said. “It’s just a matter of playing together.”

In any event, Vaughan will be out there hustling. His dedication and desire have made him a leader. And his wit helps keep the team loose.

He may not look fancy, but he gets the job done. And as Stone insisted, “That's all that counts.”

SGA

Senator Elections

Filing deadline is Tuesday, Sept. 23
Elections held Tuesday, Sept. 30.

Dorm Senators
Residence Hall Council Representatives
Off-campus Senators
Freshman Class Senator

Filing date is Tuesday, Sept. 30
Election held Tuesday, Oct. 7