the davidsonian October 3, 1975

An oriental girl is the subject of one of Gordon Mahy's paintings now on display in Cunningham.
-Leon Venable

“Ruins” Mahy's use of material and continuous lines made this composition particularly striking.

Dirty paintings flaking? Mahy displays fiery paintings

By MATTHEW COVINGTON Executive Editor

The Gordon Mahy exhibit of paintings now in Cunningham Fine Arts Center looks as if it has been in a
fire. It is easy to imagine these paintings hanging on the remnants of a wall in a burned-out house. The
canvases are dirty and the paint on them actually appears to be flaking off in places. Apparently, Mr. Mahy is
given to erasure, because his lines are not crisp and in many places his canvases show signs of frustrated toil.
The result is a somewhat sloppy show.

Mahy graduated from Davidson in 1954 and has had more than 20 one-man shows, including one at Davidson in 1964.
Mahy has won a first award in the North Carolina Artist’s Annual and currently teaches art at Mars Hill College.
Mahy is obviously blessed with substantial technical skill and in all fairness to him, it must be mentioned that his
current medium, the collage, is not designed to be meticulous or neat. He works with dissimilar images and materials in
an effort to bring them together into new combinations. At this, Mahy is successful.

Mahy’s painting is extremely calculated and his work seems to proceed from a master plan rather than giving in to
spontaneity. Mahy places images on the canvas the way he has planned to place them and his pictures lack freedom.
The artist seems to never try to feel where something should go but always to rely on a blueprint. The
paintings are generally geometrically oriented and often divided into quadrants. This form would seem to imply order and preciseness but
the fact that Mahy uses shapes and lines so regularly makes it especially disappointing to the viewer seeing the work
of a man who cannot draw a straight line.

The artist’s calculating nature makes design more important than color in directing the eye. Many of Mahy’s paintings look a
little washed out but the artist has no problem dealing with color, giving a small amount to cling to in
every composition. To get very specific, Mahy seems to like to use primary colors and to put them in the
upper corners of his work. The rest of a typical composition will be white and grey with perhaps a small
amount of watered-down green. Mahy seems to like to focus the eye to the bottom center of his work. He
does this by angling geometric forms to point toward the bottom and by having any physical action in his pictures
moving toward or away from the center point.

Mahy’s style leaves one feeling that he is looking at a picture within a picture. He sets images aside in
a canvas and won't let continuity develop. Mahy is partial to reversing newspaper pictures onto his work and painting over
them with a light wash of white paint. These pictures within a picture are very lonely. The identities of whoever
it is are withheld and the picture itself is so isolated inside the canvas that one is forced to think
that Mahy is after some kind of social comment. If Mahy is trying for “meaningful” content, the meaning isillusive. The
people in Mahy’s work are perhaps a key to his meaning. They are all faceless. One sort of feels like
he is looking at an artist’s overboard attempt to depict the grey lifeless people on the streets of Moscow that
grammar school teachers used to tell us about. Mahy offers one piece involving empty word balloons coming from nondescript masses
of form. These balloons and the people or things saying them have no identity. It is difficult to really believe
that Mahy is saying anything here, but if he must, he must. The show is by no means a waste
and in many respects is very innovative. The merit of the work spans from good student to good student innovator
but taken as a whole the work of Mahy is significant and should not be missed.

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

The Joy Of Eating A discreet Italy At Woolworth’s

Although it is obviously the practical way, it has never really seemed fair that a restaurant has to serve specialized
food. You go to Hardee’s for a hamburger, Laura’s for home-style country food, a fish camp for fish. Well, if
you want inexpensive Italian food, you go to Riccio’s. Riccio’s is at 729 Providence Road in Charlotte. The place is
small and there is no tremendous wait while the orders pile up in the back. Everything has to be prepared
separately and it isn’t an assembly line process. This is the beauty of the place being small. There’s no way
to understate it. The fare is adequate with a large assortment of spaghetti dinners. For people who really want to
eat as the Romans presumably do, antipastos are offered on the menu. Selection of one of these is unadvisable if
one has had or is planning to have the normal three meals in a day. You are liable to get
filled up before the iced tea comes!

Speaking of drinks, Riccio’s wine list is fairly complete when you consider that you are in Charlotte, North Carolina, at
a medium-priced restaurant. The list is filled out with Paul Masson but includes some Italian wines running as high as
$6.25 a bottle. The favorite dish on the menu might well be the lasagna. It is served generously and includes
bread. Three cheeses and a good meat sauce make this a delicious way to spend $3.25. The decor is best
described as green and white. The tables are formica and there are no candles in the entire place, which is
kind of refreshing and is probably the reason reservations are unnecessary. Riccio’s only tries to be a good place to
eat. The chairs are in Danish Modern-late Howard Johnson’s style and the waitresses wear those blue outfits that you last
saw on a sales clerk in Woolworth’s. The whole operation is tidy and quick, the food is good but not
expensive. Of interest might be the most expensive item on the menu, a $5.50 steak dinner. Comments on it were
not available and no one around was forking out the money to try it. Do I hear any takers?

Next week, Sultan of Marshmallows.

Friday, Oct. 3 8 & 10:30 P.M. D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS: HARRY AND TONTO Love $1.00 DAVIDSON STUDENT SALE
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN BORN TO RUN WILD, THE INNOCENT GREETING FROM ASBURY PARK $4.99 OCT. 6 - 11 CAMPUS RECORD SHOP
NORTH MAIN STREET
