She Davidsonian

April 17, 1975

Scotty Nicholls

Administrative shuffling of freshman enrollment has left Nicholls with a problem in housing upperclassmen.

Davidson mercilessly roasted

Juggled enrollment leaves Nicholls with housing woes

housing difficulties in general.

“My goal is to know what I’m doing with the freshmen so I can tell the upperclassmen,” Nicholls said.

Senator Tenly Shewmake reported the difficulties encountered this year. At the beginning of the year, it was thought there would be 265 men in the freshman class.

On March 20, Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White asked to accept more applicants.

On March 28, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. told White that he could change the numbers, and on March 29, the decision was finalized.

“One of my difficulties is finding the number of freshmen men. I tried with little success to get an estimate out of Mr. White,” said Nicholls.

On the housing situation in general, Nicholls stated that “it is very irresponsible of the College” to not consult with her when considering upping the enrollment. Enrollment next year is projected at 1280; the number of spaces available in college-owned housing is 1000.

“The people that are getting it in the neck are sophomores,” said Nicholls. “60 sophomores usually don’t know where they will be staying next year in April.”

Men must accommodate all the rising sophomores not in blocks, and juniors and seniors who have not gotten rooms.

Nicholls added, “We have never opened school when I haven’t had five or six open beds.”

Absent from the meeting were Senators Bill Clark, Bill Green, Tom Jonas, and Lynn Keener. It was Clark’s third missed meeting. Green, Jonas, and Keener missed their second.

Nicholls added that as of Tuesday night, 34 rooms for women are left, and 40 rooms for men. This is all the space for the sophomore women and some juniors. The rooms for

Alumni Weekend features Class of ’25

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
News Editor

Alumni Weekend at Davidson has historically been a momentous occasion. Two distinguished and distinguishing tastebuds bought themselves fine champagne to drink with their meal at the Alumni Banquet, leaving all the other classes to deal with the college’s grape juice as they saw fit.

This year Chalmers Gaston Davidson ’28, history professor, Director of

“The roasting of Chalmers Davidson will be a part of the Saturday night banquet,” said Assistant Director of Alumni Affairs Zachary Long.

It is not a retirement dinner since he is only stepping down as library director, and will still teach next year, but it is a sort of dinner featuring a real notable. Chalmers is known in some

be held April 18-19, will be the scene of nine reunions, the quinquennial reunions of the Classes of ’25 to ’65. Over 1,000 people will participate in some way, according to Long. Samuel R. Spencer Jr. will

year is for the Class of 1925,” said Director of Alumni Affairs Howard Arbuckle. “They are an interesting class. Both Senator Jim Martin and Governor James E. Holshouser are sons of members of that class.

The class has an extraordinary number of its members on the Board of Trustees and Board of Visitors. They are renowned in the affairs of leadership of the college,” he said.

Davidsonian

MATTHEW COVINGTON
Sports Editor:

CHUCK KENNON
Assistant Features Editors:

SABRA FAIRES
PEGGY JETTON
CARRIE WILSON

Staff

Business Manager:
JEFF SICH
Advertising Manager:
DAVID TRADER
Circulation Managers:
RICKY BELL
JEFF NEIKIRK
Contributing Editors:
BRUCE CORSER
JOE DUNCAN
GREG DUNN
LILLIAN GASCOIGNE
BOB HOWELL
JOE MCMILLAN
VINCE RABIL
GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Contributors: Scott Buell, Russell Carter, Bob Enright, Cliff Gardner, Ernest Glenn, Pete Goodman, Dave Kitchen, John Lemmon, Bill Lloyd, Laura Moses, Mark Postove, Mike Russ, Carl Schwartz, Charlie Shepherd, Mike Sneed, Frank Stiefel, Carol Watkins, John Wood, and Mark Yow.

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

were in school, in 1971. The alumni enjoy seeing students at school and a number of activities are planned to include alumni with students.

A number of “capsule courses” will be offered to both students and alumni. These consist of lectures on various topics by members of the college faculty.

Chalmers Davidson is offering a course entitled, “The Bicentennial and Other Mysteries.” Athletic Director Thomas A. Cartmill is speaking on “Athletic Policy and Prospects,” history professor

Zachary

Frontis W. Johnson will offer a course on “What to Look For In the Bicentennial,” and Economics Professor Charles E. Ratliff will speak on “The Economics of World Hunger.”

Also part of the program will be a spring tour of rooms in Belk designed to show the Alumni some of the innovative and elaborate building that some of the students have done in their rooms. “This idea of building lofts was unheard of before 1965, and a lot of the alumni will be surprised with the carpentry and waterbeds,” said Long.

Long has worked to organize a successful Alumni Weekend.

Satisfactory condition
Charlotte Memorial Hospital.

The individual “had been depressed and had been struggling with some personal problems” according to Dean of Students Will H. Terry.

at

in his off-campus house where the incident occurred.

He will remain hospitalized for several weeks until he