Six The Davidsonian

Once upon a time —Leon Venable

This drawing on exhibit in the Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition may be only a remnant of a unique
event. There is serious doubt that the Davidson National will continue beyond its sixth year.

April 3, 1975

Superman Jackson plays Timely, Trinitarian role

By VINCE RABIL
Contributing Editor

The Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition has been up for three weeks. Soon this show will come to an
end, and the show’s director, Herb Jackson, will begin gearing up for 1976. But after 1976, then what? There is
serious doubt that the Davidson National will continue beyond its sixth year. The primary reason for this is that the
Davidson National is a one-man production, and by nature it must remain so. Next year will be Jackson’s fifth year
as director, and to expect Jackson to continue the show beyond that year is demanding to say the least.

Jackson is a full-time art professor, and a widely known and respected professional artist in his own right. The additional
year-round job of organizing and producing the National means that Jackson is doing the work of three men: teacher, artist,
and director. While Jackson is a Davidson Alumnus, and thus is expected to be a superman, his Davidsonian wisdom must
surely tell him that sacrificing more than five years to a project that provides little remuneration, that cuts into precious
time needed in his personal career as an artist, that is most demanding when his teaching load is heaviest, and
which is produced in inadequate...

Late sixties sociology

Hairy extremes

(Ed. note: The following article is reprinted by permission from “The Cavalier Daily,” the student newspaper of the University of
Virginia. It was written by Davidson junior Bob Husbands before he transferred to Davidson.)

By BOB HUSBANDS

What does your hair length tell you about your sexuality? What does it tell you about the people you associate
with? Why do your parents get so worried when you grow your hair long? Hair communicates publicly the social-sexual category
to which you are supposed to belong. If you don’t agree, try letting your hair grow long. Or if it
is long, cut it short. Then see what your friends have to say. In either case, you will probably be
given a suspicious look or two. Like it or not, your hairstyle helps to establish your identity, and when you
change your hairstyle people question your identity.

But of course you’re asking by now, what does my particular hair length say about me? Generally, very long hair
suggests unrestrained sexuality, long hair suggests average sexuality, closely trimmed hair means restricted sexuality, and no hair simply means no
sexuality at all. A lesson from history should help explain. In the 17th century English War of the Roses, the
antagonists were the Cavaliers and the Roundheads. The Cavaliers wore their hair long, indulged in wine and women, and generally
followed their sexual impulses (sound familiar?), while the Roundheads wore their hair short and were Puritans. Modern society is no
different. The American way of life is very much geared to the meaning of one’s hair length and style.

Dirty Locks

In America today, very long hair is usually associated with permissiveness, promiscuity, and “dirtiness.” Most parents try to keep their
son’s hair at the length which they feel is appropriate. They will sometimes say that long hair is all right
if it is neatly combed, clean, or if it’s tied back. Why? Their wishes may relate to a desire to
restrict their son’s sexuality. But the same father who worries about the meaning of his son’s long locks has good
reason to fear what his growing baldness communicates about his own potency. It is curious to observe that very few
parents want their son to cut off all his hair, perhaps because few...Parents want their son to appear celibate. Parents’
desires to control their son’s hair length also relate to some of the people and ideas associated with long hair.
Generally, the more creative function a person performs, the longer his hair. This includes artists, writers, and musicians. Who can
forget the older set’s reaction when the Beatles first appeared or when the Rolling Stones came out? People tend to
fear some of the roles associated with long hair. Remember that revolutionaries and leftist groups are usually pictured with long
hair. Parents at times talk emotionally about the association between drugs, moral degeneration, general irresponsibility, and long hair. “Those dirty
hippies” is a derisive term familiar to most American homes. In most cases, parents simply don’t want their sons to
grow their hair long because they fear these things, all of which are associated with this hairstyle.

On the other hand, short, neatly trimmed hair represents authority: President Ford personifies this image perfectly. Or think of how
you picture the typical corporate executive or a Marine Corps sergeant—not with bangs and hair on the shoulders, to be
sure.

Clean Celibacy
The Roman Catholic priesthood also serves as a good example. The fact that priests have shaven heads creates an association
with celibacy, which gives them an additional source of power and authority besides that normally associated with closely trimmed hair.
Many interesting public figures have emotion-evoking hairstyles. Who can forget how many times people in a crowd told Robert Kennedy
to get a haircut? What did they associate it with? He did have 13 children and was termed a liberal;
that might indicate something. However, there are exceptions to the long hair theme. Paul Newman and the maverick Yul Brynner
are still sex symbols that remain unexplained phenomena.

Hair styles will continue to be a topic for debate. The only thing that is blatantly obvious about this subject
is that nothing is really obvious. Of the possible viewpoints to take on the topic, the emphasis of this article
has been on some of the anthropological perspectives. It should probably be added that there are other perspectives to take—such
as hair from a historical viewpoint or from a psychoanalytic viewpoint. However, one tends to wonder where the nebulous ends
on this subject and where the clear-cut emerges. Yet one thing seems certain: as the present trend seems to be
for hair to become increasingly more visible, it will not disappear as a subject of the past.

Davidson College has achieved a national status and reputation; an unusually large influx of visitors; an open, free, month-long learning,
seeing, entertaining, educational, inspirational experience for nothing. This is all due to the real and honest efforts of a man
who is doing what he does best. At a time when all small colleges are clamoring for something to make
them unique and distinctive, it would certainly be foolish for Davidson to lose the national. But what can be done?
It is highly unlikely that a new director can be found with as much prestige, experience, and selflessness as Jackson,
and it appears that the college is unwilling to construct moveable partitions in Chambers Banquet Hall, thus converting the most
eligible facility into an adequate gallery. The need for an endowment for the National has been acknowledged by the trustees’
goals committee; let us hope it will not be too little too late. If the National does not continue after
1976, the Art department and the more sensitive and aesthetically aware members of the Davidson community will remember that once
upon a time there was a Camelot.
