the davidsonian

December 5, 1975

Spencer, Nelson narrow search for Academic VP

By CATHY LANDIS
Asst. Features Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. hopes to fill the position of Vice President for Academic Affairs by March 1,
1976.

As Frontis W. Johnston temporarily fills the position vacated last summer by John M. Bevan, Spencer has narrowed the list
of applicants for the position considerably with the assistance of Faculty Executive Committee member Cora L. Nelson. The entire Faculty
Executive Committee is now reviewing the credentials of those 20 nominees.

The selection process began by requesting nominations from trustees, faculty, administration, alumni, and students. 240 men and women were nominated
and submitted resumes and references.

The select few

Subsequently, Spencer and Nelson selected about 20 from this list, submitting the names of the nominees and their credentials to
the Faculty Executive Committee. After review by the Executive Committee, Spencer will select those from the list to be invited
to the campus for interviews.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST CO.

master charge

THE INTERBANK CARD

Who offers a Master Charge Card to Davidson students? Piedmont Bank and Trust Company.

Is there a minimum age requirement? Yes, you must be 18 years of age to have the card in your
name alone.

Is there any minimum income requirement? No. No one is excluded from any Piedmont Bank service due to a pre-determined
minimum annual income.

Why would I want a Master Charge Card? Good for identification; it will make cashing a check much easier. Dining
out, travel, or emergencies make having a Master Charge Card worthwhile. Safer than carrying cash, reduces the need for and
cost of travelers checks.

When does my Master Charge Card expire? All student Master Cards expire in June 1976. Cards will automatically be renewed
unless specific instructions to the contrary are given in advance. You will have your card for summer travel and we
encourage seniors to continue to carry a Piedmont Master Charge Card wherever they go.

Why did Piedmont Bank design a Student Master Charge Program? A 1970 survey of Davidson College seniors indicated that students
wanted a Master Charge Card. Piedmont Bank’s long and satisfactory experience with Davidson students assured us that our faith in
the students was justified, and finally, it is the only service of our bank that was not being offered to
students. We ask for your deposits and we should be willing to provide you the tool for credit!

Piedmont Bank in no way encourages the student to use the Card for spending beyond his or her budget. We
hope it will be a convenience to you and will cause you to use Piedmont Bank for checking and savings
both now and in the future. It is also our hope that Piedmont Master Charge will go with you as
you leave Davidson College.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY

MEMBER FDIC

Upon the candidates’ arrivals, representatives of students, senior staff officers, and members of the Trustees Executive Committee will interview them.

The opinions of these groups will be submitted in writing to the President and the Faculty Executive Committee. The Committee
will then give the President a list of no fewer than three but no more than five that they feel
to be the strongest possibilities.

After consultation with Trustee representatives, especially the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Education Committee, Spencer will
make a nomination to the trustees and send it along with the list drawn up by the Executive Committee of
the Faculty.

The President indicated that Davidson is looking for someone who is a mature scholar with proven leadership abilities and classroom
teaching experience. He wishes the individual to have an understanding of a liberal arts education as well as educationally-related financial
matters.

He sent a list of these qualities as well as subsequent recommended ones to all those involved in the selection
process.

Church relations

Other criteria include an appreciation of both the college’s regional as well as national and international responsibilities and understanding and
support for the college’s relationship with the church. The job description emphasizes the dual responsibility of the position to the
faculty and to the President, with professional faculty development a major responsibility.

Most of all, the person, according to Spencer, should be open to change and understand that “the most effective leadership
is grounded in a selfless desire to serve the institution and its people.”

Although all of these characteristics are not prerequisite to obtaining the position, Spencer does hope to find a person who
has the best combination of these qualities.

Plaza Gift Shop Ltd.

“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”

Holiday Season Hours:

10-5:30 Mon.-Thurs. and Sat.

10-8:00 Friday

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503
