The Davidsonian

“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in the image.”
—Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton, Editor
Andrew Lamas, Executive Editor
Larry Mimms, Managing Editor

MAY 2, 1975

Statement of Student Rights

The Board of Trustees Governance Committee returned the Statement of Student Rights yesterday to subcommittee for the second time. Areas
of discussion on which the committee could not reach consensus include the media and assembly sections of the Statement of
Student Rights. Unfortunately, there appear to be unresolved questions as to what extent the college is willing to guarantee students
basic freedoms of the press, expression, and assembly. Such freedoms are guaranteed to members of the Davidson College faculty in
the new college constitution, article X. There, the statement is made that Davidson College is fully committed to the principles
of academic freedom as formulated in the 1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure. This document prominently states
that professors as citizens and members of an academic community are guaranteed freedom of expression and press. A reminder of
the responsibilities of a professor, that he is not a spokesman for the college and that others may make judgments
on the college based on his actions, are included.

Students, likewise, would welcome a commensurate statement of their rights and responsibilities as members working within the college community. We
remind the committee, however, that the statement will be interpreted through the regulations and provisions of subordinate documents which must
be considered simultaneously. Careful and precise language in the statement is rendered worthless if other provisions impinge upon the rights
and responsibilities granted and assured in the constitution. The fulfillment of a document of trust lies in the tension and
balance among the interests of the various segments of the community. The balance is formed in the political life of
the community, not in qualified assertions of basic rights. A statement of rights and responsibilities is not the place to
constrain the agents. A principle weakly stated is less than useless; it is a deception. We urge the Governance Committee
to affirm the basic human rights of students in the language of the statement. An awareness of the responsibilities of
students to the community is certainly in order; strictures are not. The basic question facing the Governance Committee remains one
of whether students will be recognized as citizens and equal members of the community. If students are not so recognized
and accorded appropriate protection and respect through such a statement of rights, we hope that every Davidson student will have
the personal integrity to leave a college which only purports to treat students as responsible adults. With students eager to
accept responsibilities as members of this community, we see no reason for such a situation to arise. The Trustee Governance
Committee deserves a great deal of praise and appreciation for their careful consideration of the Statement of Student Rights. We
hope and expect that the committee will have drafted the final Statement of Student Rights at their May 23 meeting
for approval by the Board of Trustees in October.

Union Labor

With the opening of the new College Union next year, the college community anticipates a greater diversity and amount of
social and cocurricular programming for 1975-76 than has been possible in the cramped facilities in the Carnegie Building. We encourage
the College Union Board to develop its program as completely as possible for fall quarter of the next academic year.
We agree with Assistant Director of the College Union Russ Kushigan that students should be presented with a complete calendar
of Union and community events before the beginning of each academic term. After the 1975 Spring Frolics Weekend, one of
the best-run “big weekends” in the past three years, the Union Board should have the momentum to program events for
next year before students leave for summer vacations.

Emerging Alcohol Ethic

“They loiter away their lives, like Solomon’s sluggard, with their arms across, and at the winding up of the year
scarcely have bread to eat. To speak the truth, 'tis a thorough aversion to labor that makes people file off
to North Carolina, where plenty and a warm sun confirm them in their disposition to laziness for their whole lives.”
—William Byrd

I’m glad to see the school is finally living up to its potential; we can’t reclaim the once verdant golf
course which is now mostly overgrown with cross-country trails, but at least last weekend we had an upsurge of old-time
relaxation. Except for a few pedants.Entangled in their note cards, most students went out and acted like fools, helped ably
by the copious quantities of free beer. Now free handouts are very appealing, but I feel a constant tumult from
the graves of our staid founding fathers as keg after keg is opened and drunk—except in the football stands. Whether
Davidson realizes it or not, it has created a beer ethic and enshrined it just as snugly as the statement
of purpose. Perhaps those in the know think they are saving the campus from worse things, your basic lesser evil
stance. This "moral gauze" covered all of freshman orientation except the cake race, which can’t be touched because it’s tradition.
One did not push a mangy boat in the “Frosh Regatta” for God, for Country, or even for Entertainment, but
for a keg of beer. The parties on Patterson Court held out their juiciest inducement, free beer, and we were
told that it’s not really hard to get a keg from the school for—ah—Letter to the Editor party purposes, plus
there’s always Hattie’s Thursday night. Personally, if someone’s going to hold something in front of my nose to make me
go, I'd rather it be a carrot. Still, I’m not going to stop others from guzzling beer and making their
beer bellies, and I applaud the societies which have created the option of beer or soft drinks as prizes. But
the final straw was last week’s blood drive. Alright winos, college alcoholics—here it is—the dorm with the most donated blood
gets a keg of beer, an offer which conjures up pictures of diseased tramps selling blood in ghetto stations and
eventually killing your cousin’s baby. Now the question is, if the prize had been a $30 gift certificate redeemable at
a bookstore, would there have been as much excitement? Well, let’s say yes and stop the founding fathers from their
turning, but who really believes it? Just once perhaps, it would be nice if with the eternal keg of beer
Davidson College would give me and the other deviants a Coke or a Sprite, or at worst Kool-Aid. I at
least don’t have to prove my macho to the campus. After I wrote this article, I heard that Hattie’s burned.
Somebody up there is listening.

Letter to the Editor

Fan applauds Baseball win

To the Editor:

Being one of a handful (pity) of alumni who enjoy baseball at Davidson, I would like to congratulate the team
on a superb win against South Carolina. I know that they feel an inner satisfaction from their accomplishment, as outward
praise and publicity are non-existent. South Carolina, 34-3 previous to this loss and ranked highly in polls, saw an excellent
example of determination and quiet confidence combine to stun them. Maybe someday Davidson itself, and more specifically, sports information, will
notice victories like this one in baseball, and give a good group of dedicated ballplayers the recognition they deserve. Congratulations
to the team and to Coach Wade from an old captain and loyal follower of Davidson baseball.

Captain Jack.

Keep pluggin’

Jack Willits ’73
Myrtle Beach, S.C.

Wilensky takes issue with Davidsonian news

To the Editor:

Because I feel that The Davidsonian has abdicated its position on campus as the voice of information, I must resign
my position with the staff. Much as I had to withdraw from the masthead when the editorial position of the
paper became intolerable to my principles, I must now leave due to your news policy.

Recent events on campus have gone uncovered because the editor feels it is within his responsibility to participate (both with
administration and student officials) in a “grand design” for Davidson College. I cannot accept the attitude that now prevails, one
of “tell them what they need to know only when they need to know it.” When a paper becomes merely
the information piece of campus politicians (again both student and administration), it is not living up to its responsibilities. Mr.
Editor, you promised a gadfly. We’ve got only your personal update. It is your charge and absolute responsibility to get
out of the political arena, out of the arena of protection for your friends on the SGA and in the
administrative staff, and back to being a newsman. The students want, need, and pay, to read a paper reporting all
the news that is news when it is news, regardless of its political impact. The editorial page is for your
opinion. The news pages are being violated by your selective reporting of the news.

Mark Wilensky ’76
Davidson College
