Vol. LXIV; No. Nineteen
The Davidson College, Davidson, N. C. 28036
Published Weekly By Davidson College Students
MARCH 13, 1975

Hedrick, PIRG Propose Voter Initiative For N.C.
By JOHN WOOD
Staff Writer

A constitutional and legislative initiative amendment will be considered by the General Assembly due to the initiative of sophomore John
Hedrick. Hedrick, as a citizen, Davidson student, and secretary of the Davidson chapter of the North Carolina Public Interest Research
Group (PIRG), has been outspoken in his efforts to promote legislative initiative. The plan for the initiative proposal is to
give citizens greater and direct access to the Constitution and legislation by referendum. “The initiative is...

Wynn Advises College On Research
Associate for the Office of Institutional Research at the University of Michigan, G. Richard Wynn, addressed the Trustees and other
guests at Davidson on February 20, 1975. Wynn subdivided American colleges into three groups. Colleges in the first group are
those with solid financial bases offering quality education. These colleges will almost certainly remain viable by 1980. Davidson is in
this first category. Colleges in the second category are moribund institutions in various stages of decay. Seventy to one hundred
such learning places have succumbed since 1970 and Forbes predicts that a total of 874 will fold by 1980. Colleges
in this group are typically new institutions with open admissions policies (resulting in average SAT scores in the four to
five hundreds), a low percentage of PhDs, enrollments averaging about 800, and libraries containing approximately 40,000 volumes. In these colleges,
tuition usually pays for 95 percent of expenses. A third category is a middle group of colleges which are the
key to future economic progress, said Wynn. The history of these colleges is replete with much failure, especially during the
Industrial Revolution, but in the post-World War II boom, they met with enormous success. However, the recession in the late
sixties marked the end of the golden years for colleges in general but particularly those in the middle group. Wynn
noted that there is now a trend toward declining enrollment that will become increasingly apparent after 1978 and by 1987
should be very much different than enrollment today. For example, in Wisconsin, there are now ninety-five thousand seniors in college
compared with 62,000 two-year-olds. However, an increase in older people wanting to attend college will partially offset the decrease in
younger students. In pricing, public institutions will experience an increase of about 16 percent in the period 1970-75 whereas private
institutions will experience a 23 percent increase. In short, there is a widening gap between the cost of public and
private education. In most cases, the endowment of these colleges will simply not keep pace with spiraling expenses and will
be directed mainly toward operating expenses. In the realm of student financial aid, Wynn foresees the development of a cycle
in which increasing tuition forces increasing grants of financial aid with the extra funds coming out of revenue that would
be for operating expenses. Yet, since financial aid constitutes a deficit in the college’s budget, officials will be forced to
raise tuition to counteract increasing grants of aid. There...

Jaworski To Give
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
News Editor

The 1975 Spring Convocation Address will be delivered by former Watergate Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski on Friday, April 18, at
11 a.m. in Love Auditorium. At that time, Honorary Doctor of Law degrees will be conferred on Jaworski, Dr. Harry
B. Price, and Mr. Edward A. O’Neal. Jaworski’s topic, “Our Lives, Our Fortunes, and Our Sacred Honor,” will be based
on the Declaration of Independence. Jaworski’s speech at Spring Convocation will be the highlight of Alumni Weekend. The conferring of
degrees will be the only transaction of school business; other scheduled events include a 10 a.m. reception and a 12:30
p.m. luncheon. “We want to honor Jaworski, Price, and O’Neal. The fact that Jaworski was the special prosecutor in the
Watergate trial really brought him into the public eye, but our degree does not necessarily honor him for that. I
expect we’ll honor him for ‘special service to his country as a lawyer and public servant,’” said Assistant to the
College President Jerry C. Godbehere. Jaworski is the son of an Evangelical Lutheran minister who migrated to Texas from Poland.
Jaworski grew up in Waco, Texas, and, along with his two brothers and his sister, worked his way through Baylor...will
also be an in- University, where he earned a Law degree in 1925. After his graduation, Jaworski entered practice with
the Houston firm of Fulbright, Crooker, Freeman and Bates. Jaworski’s ability to totally master a case the night before it
was to be tried and then give a brilliant performance in court the next day brought him accolades as one
of the finest trial lawyers in Houston. He ‘mechanism that allows the citizen to petition and enact directly constitutional amendments
as well as certain types of legislation,’ stated Hedrick in a letter to newspaper editors throughout the state. Hedrick has
received endorsement from N.C. PIRG and consumer advocate Lillian Woo for the initiative proposal. “North Carolina is pretty much dominated
by special interest groups from industry,” commented Hedrick in relation to North Carolina politics. This domination has to some degree
hampered the success of the initiative concept and another PIRG issue concerning brown lung disease in textile mills.

Finances increase in the number of no-need scholarships awarded on the basis of ability and not need. In effect, colleges
will buy students which Wynn thought was rather ridiculous in light of the financial aid cycle. Wynn spoke of the
college as a financial plant and emphasized the dangers of the tendency of many colleges to decrease the reserves they
keep to hedge against depreciation. “The irony is that areas that need the initiative the most are the least likely
to see it succeed,” asserted Hedrick. He also added that it could take as long as two years before the
legislature makes a decision concerning the initiative proposal. “PIRG will be devoting a considerable amount of its time this term
to the Brown Lung project,” remarked Hedrick. Brown lung disease is caused by breathing heavy concentrations of cotton dust in
the cotton and textile mills. It is a disease much like emphysema where shortness of breath is the predominant symptom.
This last winter term the Davidson-N.C. PIRG chapter leafletted textile mills in the Belmont and Mt. Holly areas. Spring term
the chapter will concentrate on the Concord and Kannapolis mills. PIRG is pushing to both educate the workers in regard
to brown lung disease and to pressure the mill management to lower the cotton dust levels and conduct breathing tests
for employees at least once a year. “The best generalization is that they (the management) are striving to avoid the
brown lung problem—or listening and then not doing anything about it,” (See PIRG, page 2)

Awards Address became a senior partner in his firm in 1951. In 1971 Jaworski was honored as he was selected
president of the American Bar Association. Jaworski, a Democrat, supported Nixon for re-election in 1972. His $250,000 a year position
with the firm Fulbright, Crooker and Jaworski made him a pillar of the Houston establishment. His selection by Nixon to
replace Archibald Cox as special prosecutor in the Watergate trials was seen by many as a sure sign that whatever
cover-up was being perpetrated would succeed. Jaworski instead became a hero. Instead of undermining Cox’s work, he began his stint
as prosecutor by ordering that his staff continue with whatever they were doing under Cox. He then proceeded to bring
about the completion of the trial and the serving of justice in months, instead of the years Cox believed it
would take. Jaworski’s manner was always polite yet his absolute insistence on reception of documents the White House refused to
release proved to be the factor that made the Watergate trials as efficient as they were. He obtained most of
the documents, although not all the ones he wanted, by subpoena. Jaworski had nothing to show when he came to
“clean up” Washington. His salary as special prosecutor was $38,000, less than a sixth of his salary as an attorney
in Houston. Jaworski’s ambitions were primarily filled when he became special prosecutor, and a quest for notoriety was not a
reason for accepting the position. The honorary LL.D. from Davidson is an award for a man who brought about the
resignation of the President of the United States. But Jaworski is not proud Nixon left office. He fought hard to
bring about justice, but has since fought just as hard to defend Nixon from imprisonment or incarceration of any kind.
He speaks now saying that the humiliation of Watergate has been more than enough punishment for the man.
