the davidsonian
October 24, 1975

Speedy food service deprives students of free choice

Everyone has to eat. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has to eat. Dean of Students Will H. Terry has
to eat. Even students have to eat. Yet present conditions in the College Union snack bar are almost prohibitive to
good eating. The food flies down the throat before students can say Jack Robinson. The major problem is the serving
line just moves too fast. Students don’t even have time to look at the menu or consider their choices before
they are whisked to the cash register. No one has yet had time to read beyond the first item on
the menu, and subsequently, Ron Scott of ARA Slater reports he has sold nothing but Wildcat Specials. “But I sell
a lot of Wildcat Specials,” the ARA Slater Food Czar reports. Whatever happened to freedom of choice in Davidson student
dining? At present, no one has time to decide what he or she wants to eat before they have ordered,
paid, and been pushed into a seat. The computerized micro-wave-electric cash register system is just going to have to go
before it makes short order of the relaxing meal-time hour.

Planning program plunges

The future of the Career Life Planning program suffered a setback Tuesday with the resignation of Experiential Programs Director Ken
Wood. Vice President for Academic Affairs Frontis Johnson admitted that the resignation came as somewhat of a surprise. Said Johnson,
“Ken sure had some ideas and I guess he felt kind of strong about this one.” Johnson refused to elaborate
on why Mr. Wood left until Wood’s family could be contacted. Wood gave no reasons for his leaving. According to
a Charlotte Observer obituary this morning, however, he left behind a brief note saying, “I’ve found my job meaningless, my
life uncreative and misguided.” According to the obituary, Wood plunged to his death from atop the tall Tallahatchee Bridge. We
regret his death, but “creativity means you never have to say you’re sorry.”

Historians plan Mecklenburg birthday

Davidson to celebrate bicentennial fest

The town of Davidson is busy preparing for the nation’s 200th birthday next January, according to Mayor Tom Sadler. “Mecklenburg
County being the seat of liberty in the U.S., I believe it’s up to us to engage in a little
embroidery and make the seat comfy and alluring for all. We’ve got a great time lined up,” said Sadler. Featured
in January is a re-enactment of the battle of Samuel Davidson. The event is scheduled for flickerball field #3 and
picnic lunches will be available for spectators. Sadler urges all interested students to be sure and sign up for roles.
Horses and swords, however, will not be provided. One lucky student, “preferably a nice church-going boy,” stated Sadler, will be
allowed to carry the embalmed pinkie of Marshall Ney which Dr. Chalmers Davidson, History professor, had been hoarding in his

“What we have here is a failure to communicate.”

Contributors this week: John Milton, Squeaky Fromme, Auggie Dawgy, Spiritus Fermenti, Sydney J. Harris, Fortunato C. McDole, J. Fred Muggs,
Stanley Kubrick, George Greanias, Simon, Theodore and Alvin, O. Howie Phartz, Harry Rheems, Linda Lovelace, Woodrow Wilson, and Jerry Mathers
as the Beaver.

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C., 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00Deep freeze for just such an occasion.
Following the battle, Professors Davidson, Lestor, and Johnston will march in the well-known fife and drum formation, if an electric
cord long enough for Davidson’s drum can be found. Next scheduled is a play based on the founding of Davidson
as a bird sanctuary in 1836, one year before the college. Sixth graders at the Davidson Elementary School have been
practicing for months for the performance, and their mothers have been making bird costumes. "Things have been flying right along,"
stated Ms. Hunter, the fledgling thespians' teacher. "We’ve got the swallows and the sparrows in line, but we just can’t
get the flamingos to dance."

In May, the town will celebrate the founding of Davidson College by bowing down en masse before a plaster model
of the college and chanting, "I raise my eyes to the college from whence cometh my money," accompanied by the
strains of "Gaudeamus Igitur." For the summer months, a reduced version of the Tweetsie Railroad will be built to encircle
the town, and a young black child will be hired to whistle "Dixie" as the train makes its twice-daily runs.
The crowning event will be the opening of the Uncle Mr. President Sam Spencer Tennis Court, with fault lines in
a patriotic red, white, and blue color scheme. The court is dedicated to helping those in need, who need a
court to play on. A racket and ball will be on permanent loan from the President.

Letter to the Editor

Ensley critiques Long yearbook

To the Editor:

I’ve been meaning to write for quite a while now, but I’ve been all booked up. Time certainly has a
way of sneaking right past you once you get out of earshot of the Davidson bell. I’m writing because I’m
a bit perturbed by the publication in The Davidsonian of the pre-censorship preview of the 1974-75 Quips and Cranks. Although
I mainly deal in the realm of creative conceptual art, I feel obliged to critique the beginnings of Zach’s book.
I don’t feel obliged to do anything often, so listen carefully.

The staff seems more dedicated to putting something before the eyes of the community rather than before their imaginations. This
was not the intention of the original staff. And let me emphasize that my staff was original. No one had
done what we did before. It’s tough to put out an annual when you realize that Davidson has so little
appreciation for the original. As I was visiting the U.S. Mint here in Washington, D.C., yesterday, I compared my book
with those of the past four years, and I think I’ve given you a better deal for your $13,000 than
you've gotten for quite a while. So remember that as you remember me. Sometimes people have yearbooks to remember forgotten
seniors by, but well, this year I guess not.

Carroll Ensley ’75
Washington, D.C.

Letters

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on almost any subject. Lies about the faculty and administration telling about their
virtues will be trashed. Letters over 300 words in length are a hassle to read, so these go down the
tube, too. We may use the excuse that your letter was poorly worded or grammatically incorrect. However, look at the
rest of the paper and you’ll see we can’t write either. Basically, if we like you, you're in. Otherwise, forget
it. We’re the only paper in town—Do-dah, Do-dah.
