Six The Davidsonian March 20, 1975

Somehow the word “pub” conjures visions of the revelry of the English setting where ale is king and the game
is darts. That’s hardly the case at this establishment on the east side of Charlotte, not far from UNC-C. Lured
partly by its name, not to mention its advertised specials (pizza and London broil), we decided to pay our regards
the Saturday night of exam week. The timing is important and reserved only for special occasions, for it offers the
sole respite from the rigors of that hectic week which fortunately only occurs three times annually.

By Bob Enright and Mark Yow

Another one of those Charlotte hot-spots (like the Rheinland Haus) hidden in the enclosures of a shopping mall, Ye Old
Pub projected a rather pleasing atmosphere to our senses upon our entrance into its confines. It had none of the
riotous qualities of your run-of-the-mill tavern, but rather a more relaxed setting congenial to a different type of patron. The
latter seemed to be composed mostly of a genteel-looking second-generation crowd of former college classmates; many with the appearance of
having been frat-oriented jocks. (How’s that for a descriptive label?)

We were immediately impressed and comforted by the appearance of a sea of pro and college pennants adorning the walls,
which indicated that this was obviously a class joint. Our pre-meal time was spent trying to illumine the identity of
as many of these pennants as possible. Impressed by the quantity displayed, we were dismayed to find none bearing the
colors of our beloved alma mater, Davidson. How could they ignore the presence, in their own county even, of the
Princeton of the South with its hallowed halls of learning and ivy-draped walkways, not to mention its athletic prowess?

Our passivity overcoming our pride (an act of pure sin), we soon forgave this tragic oversight, at least until we
went to pay our bill and discovered hanging over the cash register a plaque bearing the inscription UNC-C displayed in
all its shameful nakedness for the world to see. Oh, how quickly they forget! Sure I realize that everybody likes
a winner, but one season hardly negates a tradition.

A few words finally about the food. The voracious appetites of the contingent members had induced all of us to
order the London broil priced at $3.95 for the complete dinner. We didn’t have to wait long to be served,
an interim marked by conversation with our hospitable waitress. She sought to abate our anger by explaining that all the
athletic mementos were gifts of customers and did not represent the views of the management. This raised the challenging problem:
don’t Davidson students patronize Ye Old Pub, or are they embarrassed to admit their affiliation? It sounded an awful lot
to us like a hint for a pennant, which we assured her would be forthcoming on our next visit.

The London broil, incidentally, was well worth the wait, exceeding our expectations in every regard. German fried potatoes (try them),
plus salad, bread basket, and tea came complete with the meal. We left fully satisfied, and determined to pay a
return visit to sample the pizza.

NEXT WEEK- Sir George and the Dragon

Liliana Cavani is evidently an admirer of Luchino Visconti’s dreadfully unpleasant masterpiece “The Damned.” Her “The Night Porter” stars Dirk
Bogarde and Charlotte Rampling and is costumed by Pietro Losi, all of whom did much more telling work for...

Bandwagon

Friday, March 21
1 p.m. Black Films Morrison Room
2 p.m. Tennis: Dartmouth Davidson
8 & 10:30 p.m. Pop Film: Love Auditorium “Five Easy Pieces”

Saturday, March 22
1 p.m. Track: Appalachian Davidson
1:30 p.m. Baseball: East Carolina Davidson
8 p.m. Concert: Love “Ripple”

Ripple got started in Kalamazoo and has been making waves all over the country with their hit single, “I Don’t
Know What It Is, But It Sure Is Funky” which was followed by “Willie, Pass the Water.” This eight-man band
puts out a mixture of jazz, rock, Latin, Afro-Cuban, and rhythm ’n blues, which they synthesize under the banner of
“progressive soul.”

Sunday, March 23
3 p.m. Piano Concert: Gary Towlen
10 p.m. Davidsonian Staff Meeting Newspaper Office Hodson Hall

Monday, March 24
2 p.m. Tennis: East Stroudsburg Davidson
8:15 p.m. Chamber Music Program: Hodson Hall Robert Guralnick, Pianist, Actor Chopin returns to life, plays several of his piano
pieces, and mulls over the age in which he lives.

Tuesday, March 25
1:30 p.m. Baseball: (double-header) Davidson Hamden-Sydney
2 p.m. Tennis: MIT Davidson
2:30 p.m. Track: Wake Forest and High Point Richardson Field
7 p.m. Worship Services DCPC
7:30 p.m. Debate: Princeton Eu Hall
8:15 p.m. Fine Film: “Ulysses” Love Joyce’s masterpiece put to film is a controversial but sensitive work. Filmed in England
by Joseph Strick.

Wednesday, March 26
2 p.m. Baseball: Citadel Davidson
2 p.m. Tennis: Amherst Davidson
7 p.m. Drama Workshop Productions Hodson Two one-act plays directed by Wendell Patterson and Bill Morris.

Thursday, March 27
1:30 p.m. Baseball: California State Davidsonthe Visconti film. Like “The Damned,” “The Night Porter” is an Italian fantasy at the
expense of Nazi Germany. Whether the Nazis were heterosexual or homosexual or both or neither is often unclear, but that
they were very decorative can hardly be doubted.

“The Night Porter” does not have a man dressed as a woman, which I suppose is the next best thing.
Cavani has a light delicate touch for the cinema keyboard; where “The Damned” was Wagnerian, “The Night Porter” is Mozartian,
only glacial, not-so alive as Mozart can be.

The screenplay, a magnificently silly one by Cavani and Italo Moscati, is played solemnly instead of for comedy or dramatic
impact. Cavani cannot be accused of romanticism or pandering or sensationalism or anything else much worth accusing her of. Her
understated mise-en-scene doesn’t seem an ideal one for her subject matter, the tale of a sadomasochistic love affair between a
Nazi officer and a Jewish prisoner which is renewed years later when the Jewess blunders into a hotel which houses
a group of eccentric, decaying Nazis—among them her old lover.

The film is photographed in somber tones, and one or two scenes are badly acted in a heavy-breathing manner, but
otherwise all traces of melodrama are carefully eschewed. Losi’s great sense of the dramatic is not utilized; his costumes are
the most realistic I have seen by him.

If “The Night Porter” were extravagant, then at least it might manage to avoid creating the impression that Cavani had
purposely set out to make a boring film. Self-consciously elegant films have a tendency to be unsuccessful—that is, not involving—and
Cavani’s fairly mediocre attempt is no exception. Cavani had good taste, some understanding of what film is all about and
a mild degree of talent; she lacks imagination and pity for her audience.

Dance scenes can be taken as the ultimate trials of most directors’ abilities. Instead of seeking dramatic equivalents of ballet,
dance steps which would seem to be ballet, she contents herself with recording literal ballet movements.

Reel to reel, “The Night Porter” Cavani Produces Nazi Fantasies. Rampling’s Dietrich-like chanteuse number gives expression neither to the characterization
she is attempting nor to any sort of acting technique, and this is exactly the type of scene that a
director who was worth much ought to be able to guide a star through even if she couldn’t act.

Cavani’s instincts in casting Rampling must be held extremely suspect. Rampling does not so much play a fixated person as
give a childish performance. There are a few moments when she is photographed and costumed so well that she seems
about to break out into acting, but these moments are illusory and quickly shattered. To cast Bogarde as a sexually
neurotic introvert should have been out of the question. The first couple of tries an actor is type-cast can be
exciting both for him and his audience. Later, however, he begins to suffocate if he isn’t allowed enough variety.

Bogarde, as Max, the night porter, executes tightly controlled poses and mannerisms that he seems to have memorized by now.
As of three years ago, with Visconti’s “Death in Venice,” Bogarde was still an accomplished actor, but he has little
chance to show his powers here. It’s as though acting were not what he was called on to do. Except
for a couple of inspired line deliveries, his performance is worthless. There’s a lot of bad supporting acting in the
film, too.

Cavani’s only genuine talent seems to be her responsiveness to physical textures. Alfio Contini’s cinematography, Osvaldo Desideri’s sets, and Losi’s
costumes are all memorable and seem perfectly under the director’s control. One imagines there must have been an exciting give
and take between the director and these men. She has managed to fit their work into her overall design (such
as it is) without stifling them. While Losi’s great talent is not for what he does here, his work is
still very fine and sensitive. Contini doesn’t find the right shade for the men’s faces; otherwise, his photography is consummate.

During the last half-hour of “The Night Porter,” the lovers slowly, lyrically starve to death in an apartment surrounded by
one or two Nazis. Cavani has no interest in entertaining her audience, which may be a kind of integrity, though
I doubt it. I respect her intellectually rather than emotionally, which is a damning thing to say about any dealer
in the arts.

By JOE MCMILLAN
