Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

January 9, 1975 The Davidsonian Seven. Wildcats Losing By CHARLIE SLAGLE Staff Writer Davidson’s basketball team is experiencing its longest
losing streak since 1961. The last four of these came during Christmas break. This four-game stretch was supposed to be
one of the toughest for the Cats and it proved to be just that.

The first four games included defending NCAA champion N.C. State, which at the time was ranked number one in the
country. Also, former NCAA champion U.C.L.A. had to be played. The other two games were Brigham Young and Santa Barbara,
both on the road.

The first game of the series was N.C. State at Charlotte. The Wolfpack got off to an early lead led
by All-American David Thompson. State went to the locker room at halftime with a comfortable 46-33 lead. The Wildcats were
not done, however, as they came back in the second half and with twelve minutes remaining had cut State’s lead
to two at 59-57. That was as close as the Cats could come, however, as David Thompson again and again
put in alley-oop passes for scores. State lengthened their lead and ended up winning 95-79.

Davidson played after coming off of losses to Richmond, Princeton, and William & Mary. Leading scorers for the Cats were
Greg Dunn and Larry Horowitz with 20. Tom Verlin and Jay Powell had 14 and 12 respectively. Thompson ended up
with 43 points, which is more than he had scored in his two games prior to Davidson combined. Kenny Carr,
a freshman forward, added 21 points for State.

Davidson then traveled to Provo, Utah to play in the largest college basketball arena in the country, Marriott Center, which
holds 22,000 against Brigham Young University. The game was close in the early going with both teams having the lead.
With just over four minutes remaining, the Wildcats were down by only three points. However, Brigham Young pulled away in
the final minutes to win the game.

---

Fallible Freek Misses Some, Meditates Cats, Super Bowl

After remembering many of my bowl game predictions, I am sure that some readers made New Year’s resolutions never to
read this column again. But, Davidson fans, have faith! Even though yours truly predicted Brigham Young, Maryland, Texas, Georgia, and
most notably Alabama winners, this seer also had the Peach Bowl tie, the Nebraska-Florida spread, and the U.S.C. upset of
Ohio State. And to top it off, the “Freek” (formerly “Freak”) has hit the Davidson basketball spreads practically on the
nose. For example, the State prediction of 18 was only off by 2 as was the U.C.L.A. spread of 25,
although the latter was accidentally omitted in the last issue.

I know many of you are expecting more sardonic, scathing comments on the current 2-8 basketball record. Okay. I did
not personally see the Santa Barbara game but I didn’t have to to know the story. A rebounding deficiency of
48-16 is simply unbelievable!

This weekend I make St. John’s an eight-point favorite. The big question for the rest of the season seems to
be “Can Davidson salvage a 10-win season?” With the upcoming schedule, it will be real tough. As Alan Edmonds put
it appropriately, Davidson may be quickly becoming the “Wake Forest of basketball,” referring to Wake’s ridiculous scheduling of Oklahoma, Penn
State, and other “biggies” in football. I’ll hold the rest of the biting commentary until later in the season, after
the Wildcats have played East Carolina, V.M.I., and others their own size.

The world has enough disasters without having to look at Davidson’s, so why don’t we move on to pro sports.
Viewing the present pro hockey and basketball seasons, one may ponder over this crucial question, “Who will end up with
a better (or worse, it depends on how you look at it) record, the New Orleans Jazz of the NBA
or the Washington Capitals of the NHL?”

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.the NHL?” (It’s nip and tuck right now.) After seeing
the Flyers a couple of times over the vacation, I don’t see how they can lose this year. (I also
said the same thing about N.C. State in basketball, so take it as you may.) In the NBA, there doesn’t
seem to be one overpowering team like the past few years. The finals will most likely match Boston and Milwaukee
again. I know most of you aren’t in the hockey or basketball mood yet, so here goes my fling at
the Super Bowl. For the past two months, I’ve called Pittsburgh all the way, and I’m sure not backing out
now. Their defense against Oakland was awesome. Minnesota has an unexciting offense, so I make the game Steelers by 6.
I would like to end this conglomerated column with the classic $4 million question—“Can the Yankees with Jim Hunter (at
$19,000 a day) and Bobby Bonds WIN?”—Answer: They’d better!

Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30

In the first half, the score was tied at 30. The Cougars then scored 12 of the last 14 points
in the half to lead 42-32. Davidson attempted to come back in the second half, but could not get closer
than six points. Brigham Young increased their lead late in the half and won 90-76. The Cougars balanced a scoring
attack with five players in double figures and no one with over 15 points. Larry Horowitz led Davidson with 20
points. Jay Powell and Greg Dunn had 18 and 13. Freshman Kevin Doherty had his best game of the season
as he contributed 14 points.

Davidson then traveled to Los Angeles and Pauley Pavilion to play the number three ranked Bruins of U.C.L.A. The Bruins
showed why they were ranked where they are as they beat the Cats 91-64. U.C.L.A. controlled the boards and blocked
many shots as they enjoyed a big height advantage. Dave Myers and sixth man Marques Johnson led the Bruins with
23 and 16 points respectively. Greg Dunn was Davidson’s leading scorer with 14. Kevin Doherty and Larry Horowitz had 12
and 11.

The next night, the Cats traveled 100 miles up the Pacific Coast to play the University of California at Santa
Barbara. Midway through the first half, the score was tied at 16. As the half progressed, however, Santa Barbara started
building up a lead as they continually got two or more shots each time down the floor. At the half,
the Gauchos of Santa Barbara led 42-28. The start of the second half killed the Wildcats as Santa Barbara scored
the first six points. The closest Davidson could come after that was twelve points. The final score was 91-75. Dave
Brown, U.C.S.B.’s center, led all scorers with 21 points. Jay Powell was Davidson’s high scorer with 16. Eppa Rixey, Greg
Dunn, and Sheldon Parker all had 10.

Davidson’s major problems in the last four games were rebounding and shooting. Davidson teams of the past have always had
trouble on the boards, but made up for it with good shooting. This year’s team has not been able to
do that thus far. The best shooting percentage Davidson had in the four games was 47.8% against N.C. State. The
worst was 38.2% against U.C.L.A.

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans Only 6 miles north

HATTIE'S
Subs—Pizzas—Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers—Cold Draught

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
WESTWORLD
Yul Brynner, James Brolin
Friday, Jan. 10
8:00 & 10:30 P.M. $1.00

HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.
