Six The Davidsonian January 23, 1975

An Interview | Brubeck Explains Career As Prominent Jazz Leader

“We have to broaden the listening experience of the audience, and not just give them something that a record company
has taught them to expect.”

By ERNEST GLENN
Staff Writer

Dave Brubeck is one of the giants of modern jazz. His rise to fame has been mostly through the Dave
Brubeck Quartet, which performed as a unit for nearly twenty years. Brubeck now performs with three of his sons in
their new group, “Two Generations of Brubeck.”

Brubeck described how the new group, and his role in it, differs from the old quartet. “The performance varies from
my playing with my sons to Darius’ (Brubeck) group playing by themselves to all of us playing together.”

Still an active composer, Brubeck says finding time for writing is sometimes difficult, with the heavy schedule of concert performances.
“I write all the time: in the airplane, in the corner of the airport, anywhere. I even have more time
now that I’m traveling with young people because they do all the details like claiming baggage. A lot of so-called
adults who are big stars expect everyone to wait on them,” he joked.

Not only a great composer and performer in his jazz combo, Brubeck has written several larger works utilizing orchestra and
chorus. “Light in the Wilderness,” a religious work for symphony and chorus, is one of Brubeck’s works which has received
the greatest praise.

Brubeck is currently working on two large commissioned works. He is composing a bicentennial piece, just commissioned by the New
Haven Symphony. The second piece is a Christmas composition for the Honolulu Symphony.

Asked for a preview of what to expect for the Midwinters concert, Brubeck said, “If I told you, it could
come out completely different from what I said. We play songs very differently on various nights.”

Darius Brubeck is the oldest son of the family. He has his own jazz group, which is performing as part
of the “Two Generations” concert. “Darius’ group is leading the avant-garde of jazz back to some of the New Orleans
roots. I think it is important that young jazz musicians keep in contact with the foundations of jazz.”

Following up on this statement, Brubeck discussed the dangers of the avant-garde and the musician’s responsibility to his art. “You
always have the avant-garde way out in front doing a lot of things that will be totally dropped. The audience
controls a lot more than people think. The greatest group I ever had was forced to disband because there was
no audience to listen to it. You have to learn to do what you want to and still have an
audience. The groups that are making it now—Chick Corea and Herbie Hancock—know how to do this. Get your audience there,
then educate them. Don’t sell out to Madison Avenue. At one of my concerts you might hear a religious piece
and then an old-time jazz song, or something very new. We have to broaden the listening experience of the audience,
and not just give them something that a record company has taught them to expect.”

When asked about the new wave of very electrified jazz groups, Brubeck did not judge them harshly. “It’s hard to
condemn anyone for the music he makes. When I listen to a really good rock guitarist, a type of music
I usually do not like, I can see that he too has become an extension of his instrument and is...

The Front Page as spruced up by Billy Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond takes on all the high polish of a
technical exercise as played by a master pianist. These wily gentlemen have been making brash, “Hollywood” movies for more years
than I can remember—Diamond assisting on the screenplays—and they are in perfect practice with “The Front Page.” This film is
virtually flawless, almost a masterpiece. It has a triumphant unity within its diversity; every element seems to be wonderfully alive
and contributing toward the same end.

Based on the play by Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur, the movie spins an outrageous tale of a race against
time to get out a sensational front-page story on a rapidly developing event and of the charming ruination of the
personal lives of most of the characters involved—Wilder and Diamond take great delight in this last. The movie whips along
at a ferocious pace, and the actors more wham their lines than actually deliver them. Like Michael Curtiz, Wilder realizes
that speed is the secret of much successful filmmaking and, like Ken Russell, he knows that overactivity is next to
Godliness. Of course, it is only good overacting which is more decorative than good underacting, and most of the overacting
in “The Front Page” is excellent. Wilder is a talented but undependable director of actors: He whips them into frenzies
and gives them a...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

fecund atmosphere in which to work but seems unable to help them reel to reel reviews ‘The Front Page’ with
technique. His and Diamond’s screenplay provides excellent dialogue and some wonderful opportunities for the embroidering of stock characterizations. Nearly every
member of the cast with a role of any size manages a few miraculously inspired, perfectly timed vaudeville turns. There
is much competent work—by David Wayne, as the old maid homosexual Bensinger, and Dora Merande, as the washed-out scrub woman
Janie, for instance. Vincent Gardenia, looking like a gopher beneath spreading eyebrows, cuts a little masterpiece of controlled overacting as
the harassed, blustering and blushing sheriff (or some such) of New York City, ‘‘Honest’’ Pete Hartman. John Korkes is scarcely
less memorable as the cub reporter (Rudee Keppler), fresh out of college, where he learned nothing of any use. On
the other hand, Austin Pendleton is disappointing as the murderer Williams, and Carol Burnett flounders in a misguided attempt to
add serious dimensions to her role as the hooker with a heart of gold, Mollie Malloy. (I figure Burnett’s performance
bad enough to catch an Oscar nomination, though it could be worse.) Walter Matthau warms over slightly molded Horace Vandergelder
as the mean old newspaper editor Walter Burns, and Jack Lemmon also only approximates his role, as the prodigal reporter
Hildy Johnson. But there are good points to all the performances. Matthau and Lemmon have a certain amount of presence
and personality, which are probably the most important qualities for leading players to have. And Burnett allows herself a few
of the audacious, caricature touches she is so good at. “The Front Page” is easily strong enough to weather the
deviations of the performances. In an art which wears out so many directors so quickly, Wilder is still enthusiastically pouring
his personality and his vision into his work at nearly seventy years of age. “The Front Page” is the type
of movie which he and Diamond love to do and which I love to see them doing, and the cast
is one they feel at ease with. By keeping true to their temperaments and vindicating them with talent and imagination,
Wilder and Diamond are somehow also true to the temperaments of the rest of us, if that makes any sense.
They are rank sentimentalists who zealously try to cover up their sentimentality with mock cynicism, and the resulting concoctions are
fascinating, even if more self-contradictory than actually ambiguous. “The Front Page” has a beautifully sustained comic-book atmosphere in its vaudeville
acting, flawless cinematography, stylized set designs and slick camera placements. Wilder is fossilizing in some ways, but it suits him.
“The Front Page” is an exquisitely preserved relic from the past. It accomplishes well what ‘The Sting’ could only attempt.
By JOE McMILLAN

cores putting his heart into his music.” Brubeck also noted, “We’re using more electric instruments ourselves. I played the electric
piano on the ‘Two Generations’ album, though I haven’t since then.” Commenting further on electricity in rock music and jazz,
and where it is leading, Brubeck said that rock musicians will lead music back to having heavier jazz and classical
overtones. “They have the audience, and are realizing that a better mood is obtained through quieter, more complex music. Ask
most rock musicians who they idolize, and it’s probably a classical or jazz musician.” Any biographical sketch of Brubeck mentions
that he studied under the French composer Darius Milhaud, after whom his oldest son is named. Milhaud incorporated elements of
American jazz into his neo-classical music. Brubeck stated that the greatest influence the French composer had on him was the
sheer magnitude of his person as an artist. “Milhaud said if you’re going to reflect America in your music, you
have to include jazz. He was telling me the greatest American composers were Gershwin and Ellington when no one else
was treating them seriously.” Art Tatum, the blind jazz pianist of the forties, served as another strong influence on Brubeck.
“Tatum was one of the most gifted musicians ever put on earth. He had a perfect mind plus true soul,
and he worked like a slave. These are the ingredients of a great musician.” Later in the interview, Brubeck again
stressed the conflicts a musician encounters with making his art known in a world run by Madison Avenue. “I’ve fought
them all my life. When one company wouldn’t record my music, I started my own record label. Another company wouldn’t
record my religious music, so I switched. I’ve had the pleasure of winning several of these battles.” Brubeck was deeply
committed to the idea that men should be in control of the music market, not machines or sales charts. He
said that record companies have an obligation to society to provide a variety of music. —> Saturday night in Love
Auditorium will be an opportunity to see some of the men who do offer a great variety of interesting music.
“We had quite a response to the concert in Charlotte,” Brubeck said. “We hope to get a good crowd at
Davidson.”

---
