November 7, 1975

The Davidsonian

Proposed Article XII of the College Constitution

(Ed. note: The following is a draft of Article XII of the College Constitution prepared by a subcommittee of the
Governance Committee. It will be presented to the full committee at their November 20 meeting.)

Student Rights and Responsibilities

Draft 9
October 22, 1975

1. Preamble. The College is committed to the proposition that the student should be free to learn. Freedom to learn
depends upon appropriate opportunities and conditions in the classroom, on the campus, and in the larger community. The responsibility to
secure and to respect conditions conducive to the freedom to learn is shared by all members of the academic community.
Students must endeavor to exercise their freedom with maturity and responsibility. Students recognize that members of any institution are subject
to the regulations of that institution as a condition of their membership in it. While certain rights are granted to
students under law, the law is not always clear in respect of these rights, especially in the case of private
institutions. The Trustees thus adopt this statement of student rights to clarify and strengthen the relationships between the institution and
its students. By recognizing and interpreting the rights and responsibilities stated in this Article, they hope to provide an environment
of campus life consistent with the College’s ideas and values.

2. The Academic Process.
a. Freedom of Expression in the Classroom. Students are responsible for learning thoroughly the content of any course of study,
but are free to take reasoned exception to data or views offered. Students have the rights of free discussion, inquiry,
and expression in their academic pursuits.
b. Evaluation. Students are responsible for maintaining standards of academic performance established by their professors, but they shall not be
subject to unfair, prejudiced, or capricious academic evaluation, or to academic evaluation based on conduct, opinions, or performance in areas
unrelated to the course of study. Students have the right to appeal evaluations through appropriate channels.
c. Disclosure. Information about student views, beliefs, and political associations which professors and administrators acquire in the course of their
work as instructors, advisers, and counselors should be considered privileged. Protection against improper disclosure of such information is a serious
professional obligation.

3. Student Records.
a. Confidentiality. Student academic, disciplinary, medical, and counseling records held by the College shall be maintained separately. Records kept for
their own use by individual professionals associated with the College are considered the property of those individuals. The holders of
student records shall maintain the confidentiality thereof in accordance with applicable law and standards of professional ethics. Guidelines for the
maintenance and release of information from student records held either by the College or by associated professionals shall be set
forth in the College Registry.
b. Right to Inspect. Students have the right, subject to waiver, to inspect and review their own records, except as
specifically excluded by law or by regulations of the College under applicable law. They have the right to challenge any
information in their files which they consider inaccurate. Procedures for changing a student's transcript shall be established in the College
Registry. Students have the right to have inserted statements of rebuttal or explanation into other files which they consider inaccurate
or misleading, so long as a copy of any such supplemental statements is made available to the parties immediately involved
in the relevant portion of such files.
c. Access. All persons not employed by the College who desire access to student records, and all employees of the
College lacking reasonable grounds for access, shall obtain permission from the student involved before being allowed access to student records,
except where access is permitted by law or by regulations of the College under applicable law. Confidential information obtained from
student files shall continue to be treated as confidential.

4. Association. Students are free to organize and join associations of their own choice. The authority to charter on-campus student
organizations is delegated to the Student Government Association, subject to the relevant provisions of Article XI of this Constitution. Affiliation
with an extramural organization not contradictory to the purpose of the College as herein stated may not in itself disqualify
an organization from being chartered. Chartered student organizations areopen to all students without regard to race, creed, sex, or national
origin.

5. Expression and Assembly.
a. Expression. Except to the limited extent contemplated under Section 7 hereof, the College may not infringe upon the rights
of students as citizens, particularly as to freedom of speech, peaceable assembly, and the right of petition. The student is
both a citizen and a member of an educational institution. When he speaks or writes solely as a citizen, he
is free from institutional censorship or discipline, but when he acts in his position as a member of the College,
he is subject to the obligations which accrue to him by virtue of this membership, and should remember that the
public may judge the College or its students by his actions or utterances. The student has the obligation to exhibit
accuracy, appropriate restraint, respect for others’ opinions, and to clarify when he is not a spokesman for the College or
its students.
b. Assembly. Students and student organizations are free to examine and discuss all questions of interest and to express opinions
publicly or privately. They are also free to support causes by any orderly means which do not disrupt those operations
essential to the function of the College, subject only to reasonable and previously stated regulations as to time, manner, and
place.
c. Speakers. Students and student organizations may invite and hear speakers of their choice, utilizing those procedures established by the
College as necessary to assure the orderly scheduling of and adequate preparation for events. Institutional control of campus facilities may
not be used to prevent hearing of speakers so invited and scheduled. Students have the responsibility of realizing that public
events on the Davidson campus affect the public image of Davidson, and should invite speakers only after serious consideration of
their potential contribution to the exchange of ideas. Sponsorship of all speakers must be clearly publicized.

6. Student Media. The College insures editorial freedom to student media according to standards of responsible journalism defined in the
College Registry. The freedom of student editors and managers entails serious responsibilities. As a safeguard to editorial freedom, the following
policies are endorsed:
a. That the College, as the publisher of student publications, bears legal responsibility for the contents of the publications, and
in delegating editorial responsibility to students will provide sufficient editorial freedom for student media to maintain their integrity as vehicles
for free inquiry and free expression in an academic community.
b. That student media be free of censorship and advance approval of copy. Legal review in the case of potentially
libelous material should be sought by an editor or his staff (such review, when requested, is ordinarily from outside the
College). The editor or his staff should request the advice of a board of advisors on material potentially offensive to
the audience of the media, the product of a grossly unrepresentative staff, or possibly inciting disorder.
c. That editors and managers be free to develop their own editorial policies, and protected from removal or suspension because
of student, faculty, administrative, or public disapproval of content or editorial policy. Only for proper and stated cause may editors
and managers be subject to removal, and then by procedures prescribed by the agency responsible for their selection.
d. That student media explicitly and prominently state that opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the College or of
its students.

7. Student Participation in Institutional Government. Students shall have clearly defined means to participate in the formulation of and, where
appropriate, the application of College policy. No college regulation limiting the rights of students may be formulated without significant student
participation. Students shall be free from arbitrary intervention into student affairs. No student may be denied the right to vote
by secret written ballot in Student Government Association elections.

8. Standards of Disciplinary Procedure. The disciplinary powers of the College are derived from its responsibility to protect its educational
purposes by setting standards of conduct and by establishing regulations for the use of its facilities. In developing a climate
of responsible student conduct, substantial emphasis should be placed upon counseling, guidance, admonition, and example. Disciplinary proceedings may be instituted
only for violation of the Code of Responsibility or the Code of Disciplinary Procedure.
