October 24, 1975

The Davidsonian > 7

Stone Suspends Gawking Booters

By PELE
Staff Writer

Three members of the Davidson soccer team have been suspended from the team for acts “detrimental to the winning spirit of the team,” according to soccer coach Chip Stone. The three players, Tommy Blackwood, Billy Hawk, and Mike Pappas, were suspended following Monday’s practice, during which the incidents occurred.

Players regret delinquencies

In totally separate acts, each player kicked a ball down the hill and went after it, never to be seen again at practice. “Hawk and Blackwood used the old kick-the-ball-over-the-hill-and-chase-it-all-the-way-to-flickerball-field-42 trick to watch the Zoo and 6th Watts go at it in a ‘Flickerball’ game,” said Stone. “They had to be punished. The Pappas case was unfortunate. Mike accidentally booted the ball down the hill, and it rolled all the way into the trees. Being the dedicated athlete that he is, he refused to come back until he found it.”

Use old trick

Both Hawk and Blackwood expressed regret for their actions. “I’m really sorry I did it,” said Blackwood, “especially after the way everything turned out. I don’t mind the suspension, because I can always use the extra time to study, but the flickerball game was awful.” Hawk agreed. “The Zoo played very poorly. They won 13-0, but the freshmen couldn’t have scored on an empty field. The way the Zoo played, Emanon could have beaten them.” Pappas was unavailable for comment. He is still trying to find his way out of the woods.

The suspension will stand for a week, which means the players will miss two very important conference games. Senior tri-captain Bill Vaughn thinks the punishment is too harsh. “I think the punishment is too harsh,” he said. “Every player on the team has been over the hill at one time or another, and in these three cases it was the player’s first offense. Why, there are many players who have been over the hill for their entire Davidson careers.”

Stone disagreed with Vaughn. “I think the punishment is just and necessary,” he said. “We cannot continue to dominate the action in our games if the players miss practices. Besides, if the players practiced kicking the ball into the net as much as they practice kicking it down the hill, we could conceivably double our goal production.”

Player loss hurts title chances

Vaughn commented, “I don’t think three more goals would help us too much.” Stone does admit that losing the three players for the conference games will hurt their title chances. “Anytime you’re without two players of the caliber of Billy and Tommy, you are hurting,” he said. “But I think Mike is the most irreplaceable. His performance never ceases to amaze me, his abilities are truly incredible, and his coordination of our cheerleading section is a tribute to his dedication and desire.”

Duncan nears NCAA punting mark

By TANK McNAMARA
Staff Writer

Davidson College senior Joe Duncan, the punter and place-kicker for the Wildcat football team, is closing in on an NCAA record. In four games he has punted 95 times, an average of 23.8 punts per game. If he continues at the same pace, he will have punted 210 times in a nine-game season, eclipsing the current nine-game record of 178, set by ex-Slippery Rock State star, Harry Stooldryer, in 1957.

“It would be a great honor to break the record,” said Duncan, “but it won’t be easy.” Indeed not, since four of the Wildcats’ last five games are away. “Hampden-Sydney is always tough up there, and Kenyon will be no pushover either,” commented Duncan. “But I’m hoping to get plenty of chances against Lehigh.”

Duncan started out very

Pinckney runs off course, costs harriers three wins

By HARRY ERJOCK
Sports Editor

The Davidson cross country team hosted teams from Wake Forest,Georgia State, and High Point Saturday, and were beaten by all three due to an unfortunate occurrence. Junior co-captain Coty Pinckney crossed the finish line second in what would have been a school record 28:53 for the six-mile event, but the judges disqualified him for deviating from the prescribed path. "Apparently something got into Coty at about the mile-and-a-half mark, and he just took off for Mooresville," explained cross country coach Sterling Martin. "It was my contention that since he ran four times as far as anyone else, there should have been no disqualification." The officials refused to believe Martin’s story, despite statements by reliable residents of the Port City that Pinckney was seen cruising around the town at the time of the meet.

Wildcat runner Fred Borch witnessed the transformation in Pinckney. "I was running about 20 yards behind Coty at the time. He was going along very smoothly when his arms suddenly went limp, his head bent way back, and his stride increased to about ten yards. His speed did not increase immediately, since he had not properly loosened up for this type of workout, but he was out of sight in a minute."

Senior co-captain Bill Cole, who is a student of mythology, and any other subject covered on the general information portion of the Med-CATS, offered an explanation. "I think Coty must have found Nirvana while running. All the symptoms are there, and besides, why else would anyone abandon the proper running technique?"

Pinckney’s ploy did, however, help the Cats. Wake Forest’s top runner became confused and followed him. "That guy was one hurting turkey by the time he got back, three hours later," commented Borch. Pinckney’s only comment on the development was an airy "Woooooow." Coach Martin is very optimistic about Pinckney’s chances in the conference meet.

Duncan has performed strongly this season with a whopping 29-punt performance against VMI. "I was surprised to do so well at VMI," said Duncan, "but I have to give the offense credit. They did a whale of a job keeping the ball in good punting field position, and taking very little time to do it. The defense was super, too. VMI could not keep the ball for more than six or seven plays without scoring."

Against Guilford, Duncan managed only 16 punts. "The offense just didn’t do the job," said Duncan. "Several times they left me in field goal range, and many times they elected to give the ball to Guilford before I could get a punt off."

Duncan was satisfied with his performances against Lenoir Rhyne and The Citadel. "The defense did a great job in both of those games. The offense moved the ball too much against Lenoir Rhyne, and they still didn’t allow me a chance on a few series, but at least they never put me in field goal range."

Head football coach Ed Farrell is pleased with the progress Duncan has made. "Last year we used Gary Pomeroy as the punter most of the time, but he was so offensive-minded that many times he’d run himself right out of punting range," said Farrell. "It took Joe a while to get used to our football system, but he fits right in now. He’s not much for distance, but when you get quantity, you can’t realistically expect quality."

Duncan agrees. "Anyone can try to kick long. But no one in the entire history of football has had a 200-punt season. That’s my goal."

Duncan has his sights set on the pros. "I’m hoping to be drafted by Philadelphia," he said. "The Eagles play my type of game, offensively and defensively, and I think the fans really appreciate top-notch specialists like myself."

Farrell expects Duncan to break the record at Appalachian in the last game of the year. "The next few games should hurt his average a little, but against a team like Appalachian he should be able to get off 35 or 40 punts easily."