the davidsonian
November 7, 1975

Dramatic Diplomacy: Rick Roylance (left) as Wilson confronts Frazier Marsh as Clemenceau.

Mrs. Spoon’s ice cream satisfies customers
By MARK YOW and ROBERT ENRIGHT
A REVIEW

With a great deal of embarrassment, I must admit that it took me nearly two years to discover Spoon’s, or
should I say nearly two years to get the courage up to go inside. Anybody who gets to Charlotte occasionally,
and I guess that includes all of us, has seen Spoon’s at some time or another. Located on Hawthorne Street,
between Independence and Elizabeth near Presbyterian Hospital, it stands out as a memorial to a neighborhood that hopefully knew better
times. Maybe it’s not impressive on the outside, but remember beauty is often only skin-deep.

The success of Spoon’s is a tribute to its proprietor, Mrs. Elizabeth Spoon. Assuming control of operations after the death
of her husband, the establishment has been in the family for roughly fifty years. If you can remember back to
when they sold Jack’s Cookies for a penny, and the cure for cancer came in a bottle, then you have
some idea how long Spoon’s has been serving Charlotte.

Mrs. Spoon is a very lively and witty lady who is living testimony to the fact that life begins at
65. Blessed with a thousand memories, she creates a striking impression upon all who enter. Having apparently resided throughout the
length and breadth of the Confederacy during her lifetime, she grabs her listeners’ attention with her straight-faced declaration that Charlotte
has been the best of them all. All done without so much as a snicker, too. She likewise can give
glowing accounts of a time when Queens was somewhere just this side of Camelot.

-Leon Venable

By BILL LINK
Staff Writer
A REVIEW

“Wilson,” the first major production of the Davidson College drama department this season is, at least, challenging to the viewer.
Greanias’ play portrays Woodrow Wilson as a man of extremes—a somewhat manic personality pursued by either elation or depression. The
play opens significantly with a buoyant Wilson eagerly rubbing his hands together at the prospect of peace (with himself as
supreme peacemaker); it closes with a picture of Wilson at his worst, embittered and broken in spirit. Those who would
come to see Wilson presented either as demon or saint will be sorely disappointed. The dramatic hero of “Wilson,” in
short, is neither superman nor villain, but, like most of us, distinctly human. Unlike most of us, though, Wilson has
a vision and an overweening passion to make that vision a reality. This passionate vision was, of course, Wilson’s desire
to bring a permanent peace in a single stroke of diplomacy to a world devastated by war. Throughout the play,
Wilson is portrayed—successfully, I might add—as this man engulfed by the passion of peace-making. In the end, Wilson falls tragically
because that passion has consumed him.

Strong individual performances include Rick Roylance as Wilson, although his performance is distinctly better in the second act than in
the first. Perhaps we become more used to the discrepancy of appearance between actor and historical character (which, incidentally, was
none too subtly ingrained into our consciousness by massive drama department publicity). Or perhaps Roylance feels more comfortable with his
role itself by the second act. Marlin Geiger as Henry Cabot Lodge

every Davidson Man stopping in with his Queens honey. (In fact, it’s even been rumored that the demise of the
latter is a result of frequent visits to Mrs. Spoon’s Parlor, her generous servings of ice cream sounding a death
knell to many a shapely Southern belle.) In a more serious vein, she even tells of the latest spree of
robberies, her description of which arouses feelings of pity and rage toward anyone who could be so low as to
rob this missionary of good will.

Homemade ice cream is and has been the reason that Mrs. Spoon’s customers always come back. Exactly how many kinds
are available depends on what she decides to make that week, all flavors made in the modest quantity of five
gallons at a time, and all equally superb. Sherbet comes in flavors like grape, tangerine, and peach.plays a convincing adversary
to Wilson. At times his portrayal as the spiteful foe is too strong for the audience to believe, but this
does not in any way take away from his performance. Finally, Frazier Marsh as Clemenceau and Richard Fay as Orlando
provide (respectively) refreshing comic relief at a point at which the seriousness of the drama is beginning to take its
toll upon the audience. Presenting Wilson either dramatically or historically is a difficult task.

What really impresses visitors is her policy of providing free samples. Numerous signs encourage the timid, and she forces the
issue by sticking a wooden spoon down your throat. Cranberry, pink lemonade, and the fruit flavors like peach, cherry coconut,
ambrosia, etc. are indescribably good. Rum raisin, caramel, and the best coffee (ice cream, that is) this side of Boston
are other highlights. What really impresses visitors is her policy of providing free samples. Numerous signs encourage the timid, and
she forces the issue by sticking a wooden spoon down your throat. The banana splits cost $1.39 but are worth
that much and more. Indeed, there have been those who have made a Saturday night meal out of a couple
of these delights. Let your imagination run wild as to construction; Mrs. Spoon has even been known to refill her
customer’s glass when partially empty (maybe it was just us). Be sure and try the ice cream sandwiches also. Getting
them in your mouth is a major problem, at least for most people. Spoon’s is also famed for its $.99
milkshake, which presented a problem for the limited appetite and budget of one of our companions. Before leaving, Mrs. Spoon
admonished us to return real soon and feel free to sample without buying, and you can bet we’ll take her
up on that.

NEXT WEEK— DINING IN ‘Man a “Ants’: This Lloyd Menard work highlights the “strange sensibilities” show on display in Cunningham.
-Laura Moses

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Executive Editor

A REVIEW

“Strange Sensibilities,” the show of prints and drawings now in Cunningham, presents what the exhibition pamphlet calls “a fantastic reality.”
The description is quite apt, for the show deals with the depiction of things that might happen but as yet
thankfully have not. In ‘Strange Sensibilities’ the skin of a fly has been successfully grafted onto a girl. The invisible
man is running for president. “Everything Points” to a criminal sitting by the fire with his dog. In every composition,
something is happening, and although that something may be very queer, it is at the very least unambiguous action.

Participating in the show are five artists whose work has appeared in Davidson Nationals. Each artist is enough of an
individual to make the show a show of variety. No one needs go and come home wholly disappointed. George Kitta
has won purchase prizes at The Davidson National. He uses pencil, ink, photographs, and the lithograph process to depict catastrophe.
Things occur in Kitta’s work to faceless humans. Monsters come out of the sea and women scream, horror strikes in
every composition. His work is gripping and frightening, proof that man does dream in black and white. Particularly interesting is
Kitta’s “Everything Points.” In this composition, the usual and many unusual techniques of motion are employed to direct the eye
to a criminal. He is reading a paper with his dog in front of a fireplace. The logs in the
fire, the dog’s tail, the tiles on the floor, the corner of the mantle, all point at a man with
a hat and gloves on, reading a newspaper. The paper describes the story of a man at large.

David Becker teaches at State University. He employs the intaglio printmaking process. His work appears like it is illustrating an
old book, with misshapen people. They are at a picnic. The stumps are either standing around or in the woods
removing...
