the davidsonian October 3, 1975

Faraway looks: Foreign scholars (l-r) Bertil Axelsson (Sweden), Paulina Miranda (Chile), Claudine Garcia (France), and John Kirk (England) will stay
with host American families while studying at Davidson.

YMCA fund drive supports STEP, community projects
By SCOTT REID
Staff Writer

The Davidson College YM/YWCA will use the funds it raised during the past week to support STEP tutoring, a junior-high
coffeehouse, the Ada Jenkins Community Center, various other programs, and to pay off the mortgage on the Depot.

Of the programs the “Y” sponsors or supports, the STEP tutoring program is the most monetarily demanding. This afternoon, for
example, the 75 college student tutors will get together with their tutees for a picnic on the Davidson Village Green.
“At least once a month we try to get everyone involved with STEP together for some type of group activity
such as a movie or a kite-flying contest,” said YM/YWCA President Sue Cunningham. “One day last year everyone went roller-skating.”

This year, for the first time, the “Y” will be running a weekly coffeehouse for junior high school students. “It’s
for those students between 13 and 15 years old who can’t drive anywhere,” explained Cunningham. “We will be using funds
to repaint and repair the Depot so that we can hold dances and other activities there.”

The Y’s Depot building, located behind the Davidson Post Office and next to the railroad tracks, still has a mortgage
outstanding of $1,500. Most of the funds raised this year will go toward full payment of that mortgage.

“We also want to establish a ‘human resource center’ in the Activities Room of the college Union,” said Cunningham. “It
will be a library of information on where to go locally for birth control information, drug counseling, and other kinds
of advice, the kinds of advice one might not feel totally at ease asking Will Terry for.” That information will
be left on a reading table and on the bookshelves in the Student Activities Room unattended and free for anyone’s
use.

Now that the “Y” has raised its money for this year’s operating expenses, Cunningham is afraid it will drop from
most students’ sight.

Farrell establishes ‘training table’
By KARL GOODHOUSE
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Football team began eating at a “training table” at Rusk House on Tuesday. Established primarily to counter
the great losses of weight incurred by the Football team, the “training table” is a part of the past history
of Davidson College Athletic Programs. Up until the closing of the old College Union, the “table” was an integral part
of athletic life. When the Union closed, the concept was dropped.

Football Coach Edward Farrell commented that “the biggest problem, in light of the eating situation at Davidson, was procuring the
facilities. Now that we have them, there is no problem.” Farrell cited two reasons for establishing a “table.” First, the
unusual hours of practice (for example practices on Monday nights at 6:15) make it difficult for players to get dinner.
Second, to counter the great losses of weight incurred by the players. Neither the amount of food available on the
A.R.A. “maxi-plan,” nor from the houses on Patterson Court is adequate for football players burning up large amounts of calories.
“In conjunction with the rigors of study, this makes it difficult, if not impossible, to keep players healthy,” commented Farrell.

The table is financed with the money players werepaying to their respective eating houses, and subsidized with funds from the
football budget. Farrell stated that the percentage is coming from the student himself.” Farrell feels that the program is “working
fine.” “While it is most everyone who needs it, it is not a mandatory program.”

No knock

He commented that the food service and the eating houses have been most cooperative in their handling of the situation
and stresses that the table is not designed to “knock or undercut the eating system.” Ron Scott, director of A.R.A.
Food Services, reiterated Farrell’s comments on the efficiency of the program. He feels that the program will pay for itself.
Scott provides the team with a diet of “low cost, high protein items.” The emphasis is on casseroles, ham and
other meats, salads, and fruits; “food that will give the players the calories they need,” said Scott. Unlimited seconds, except
on some meats, are offered to the players.

Ghigo claims ’75-76 group contains no lemons

By BILL BARNES
Copy Editor

“I came here basically because an international scholarship is one hell of a cheap way to get into the States,
which I have a sort of fascination with.” John Kirk is English, from the University of Reading. He is one
of 17 International Exchange students studying at Davidson College this year. Their home countries range from South America to Europe
to the East. Some international students are taking degree-oriented courses here. Others, like Kirk, are here for no official credit
and have come to the United States for the sake of knowing it, thus fulfilling one of the aims of
the Office of International Education at Davidson - “a broader appreciation of world culture.”

Dr. Ghigo, of the international education office, is pleased with this year’s set of students. “Sometimes we’ve gotten some lemons,”
he commented, “but this looks like a real good group.” Each international student has a “host family” in the Davidson
community and an international studies committee coordinates activities for them. Mrs. R. D. Thompson, in the Office of International Education,
finds this committee “very helpful in getting us along on a near-zero budget.” “I hope they (the international students) come
to us if they have any problems,” she continued. “But their host families have done a lot to make them
feel at home.”

The international office indicated that they had warned foreign students that Davidson was not a large university. In the past,
several students had complained that they were not informed of the size of the College and had expected more from
the curriculum than was offered. This problem does not seem to have occurred. Most foreign students find Davidson likable, though
lacking social outlets. “The campus is too closed,” commented Claudine Garcia, from the University of Montpellier. Kirk told The Davidsonian
that he hadn’t expected “a lack of organized social life and so few bars. There’s very little outlet for social
drinking.”

Like American exchange students in other countries, this year’s foreign students at Davidson want to travel. One common goal seems
to be California, another New York, though some students, including Paulina Miranda of Chile, have expressed a dislike for The
City.

Scott is emphatically for the program. He stated that “I have been behind ‘training table’ since we dropped it, not
only for football, but for all sports. If we are going to be in major sports, we should treat them
the best that we can.” The training table has, in fact, been planned for the basketball team this year, according
to Scott. He foresees continuing the program in the future for all sports, either in the same vein, or possibly
offering a Super-maxi plan next year.

Jeff Neikirk, President of Patterson Court, sees no major problems in cooperating with the program. He did state though, that
“we could have used more advanced notice. Otherwise, I think it speaks highly of those who are doing it, in
terms of the sacrifices they are making in leaving their houses and of their loyalty to the team.”
