February 20, 1975

Hot IFT Awaits Settlement Of Championship Decision

As I write this, Young Buck, my former sidekick and newly risen messiah, is wandering far and wide gathering disciples. Yes, sports fans, Young Buck has risen from the grave.

Y.B. was cut down in his prime by Jud Cultino during the SAE #1-Cleveland Indian basketball game. It seems Cultino was working under orders from the revenge-minded Abbo. Anyhow, they carried Buck’s body out of Johnston Gym while coeds sobbed convulsively in the hallway. Three days later, Young Buck appeared on campus.

Now it may seem like coincidence, but seven teams made it, and only two fraternity teams qualified. The Cleveland Indians then defeated SAE #1 61-52 behind the scoring of Juan ‘Chico’ Sanchez and the dead-eye of Joe Dun. In the loser’s bracket, the Delts whipped Beetle Leg 67-57. The Delts went on to whip SAE #1 49-44 despite Peyton “the P” Prospere’s thirty points. Also in the loser’s bracket, the Derbies defeated Old Rooney by a lopsided 51-28. The Derbies' efforts went to naught, as SAE’s and the Delts' mighty improvement found their winning ways in a 67-56 victory.

In the first game of the double eliminations, the favorite Gozinyas sent Phi Delt #1 into the loser’s bracket. Meanwhile on Court 2, the Combe-bolstered I Felta Thi’s defeated Beetle Leg. In the other bracket, the famous Cleveland Indians beat Old Rooney and the SAE’s defeated the Kerwood Derbies, who were lacking the services of injured Al Duncan.

Up in the winner's bracket, the powerful Gozinyas were upended by the surging Thi’s, who squeezed the Tribe 63-59. The Tribe, without the services of Young Buck, put up a good fight, but Kirk Combe’s hot hand (26 points) and Juan Sanchez’s cold one (8 points) spelled doom for the Indians. The Tribe is in the loser’s bracket waiting for the smoke to clear.

By CHUCK KENNON
Sports Editor

The Davidson Rifle Team is currently enjoying its best season in the last three years. The team has a 6-3 record with one game remaining before the Southern Conference tournament.

“This is the best team I have worked with in my time at Davidson. They are the greatest to work with,” claimed Capt. Able White of the R.O.T.C. department and coach of the team. “We have beaten Georgia Tech, East Carolina University, and Presbyterian College, among others. Georgia Tech was our biggest win of the year. We scored the most in three years and won 1277-1199. Our worst defeat was to the Citadel, and that’s the highest personal score this year,” he explained.

White went on to say, “Sims is a real good shooter. With more practice and match experience, he can be a great shooter. Right now he needs to work on his consistency.”

Two other additions have improved the quality of the team. Freshman Tom Miller is the most improved and consistent shooter on the team.who beat us 1356 (out of a possible 1500) to 1198. With him and Sims around for the next few years, this team should become excellent. We didn’t have Sims or Bob Anders, the second-best member (under Sims) at the Citadel match. “Ann Bode has shot with us in three matches and is scoring in the low 200s. She is really good for morale,” White enthused. At the Georgia Tech match, the Davidson team had all five of its best shooters present. Predicted White, “If we can do well at the S.C. tournament, I think we can place as high as second in the conference.” The tournament is March 22 at V.M.I.

“We have been winning this year, something that didn’t happen in past years. The team is inspired by this, and they have a drive to win. They are more mature and experienced, and are cool under the pressure of shooting against the clock. I look forward to the next few years,” White concluded.

White said that the team has been greatly strengthened by the addition of sophomore Ben Sims. “Ben shot a good bit in high school but didn’t join the team last year. Now he is probably the best shooter on the team. He is capable of scoring 280 or more (out of a possible 300) in any given match. He shot 276 against Georgia Tech,” White declared.

The IMAC tourney started last week and it has been exciting. The tourney was single elimination for the first two rounds, but once the quarterfinals were attained, it became a double elimination tourney. There were no surprises in the first two rounds, but in the quarterfinals, IFT was upset by IFT 66-62. Ken Schmader went berserk and scored 27 while the Thi zone kept Marty Williamson and Chris Young under control. Undoubtedly, this upset was the biggest surprise of this year’s IMAC tournament. The team that wins the loser’s bracket will have to beat the winner two out of three. Remember, if you can’t be a sport, quit. P.S. Eat it, B League.

IF YOU LET A FRIEND DRIVE DRUNK, YOU'RE NO FRIEND.

P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611 | MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary

GENERAL CONTRACTORS

108 S. Main
Davidson, N.C.
Mecklenburg Gazette 892-8809