Che Davidsonian

Earthy Ammons expresses lively forest encounter

“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in the image.”
--Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton, Editor
Andrew Lamas, Executive Editor
Larry Mimms, Managing Editor

FOUR. MAY, 1975

Adding zip to the union

A campus contract postal station located in the new Grey College Union would be a substantial asset to intercampus communication
and a tremendous boost to the extracurricular and co-curricular college programs. However, we share the concerns expressed by many members
of the Davidson community regarding possible decreases in contact between students and other town members. Whether or not the decision
is made to house a post office in the new union, we would like to see a more concerted effort
made by both groups in establishing greater and more meaningful interaction.

We feel that the College Union Board, with its new facility, should play an active part. We hope that the
Union will continue to make its concerts, artist series, and other activities open to the general public. Further, we would
like to see residents of the community invited to open ends and other forums pertinent to the entire community for
a mingling of ideas. A discussion of the post office relocation might be an excellent starting point this year for
the kind of activities we anticipate next year.

We understand the concern of the downtown merchants in thinking that a relocated post office would create new traffic patterns
which might hurt their businesses. However, we doubt that a campus union would have the substantial impact they fear. From
our conversations, it is obvious that as many students stop by the post office as an afterthought from mingling with
the downtown merchants as do students chancing to stop to visit the merchants because they walked downtown to check empty
post office boxes. For example, The Hub is not just the only place in the world a student can get
a Triple-R; it’s the only store which sells it as a side order to a conversation with Ralph. As long
as the merchants on Main Street are interested in relating to their student customers, we feel students will generate traffic
to Main Street.

We also anticipate full college support for the downtown development project. We hope to see the Davidson College Student Store
move to a new location downtown at the earliest possible date. If the college does decide to operate its own
postal facility separate from the Town of Davidson post office, we challenge students, faculty, administrators, and non-college associated citizens of
Davidson to strengthen the commitments many individuals obviously feel concerning the closeness of town and gown groups in this community.

Health service check-up

We applaud the trustees’ decision to evaluate the college health services at Davidson. This is a long-overdue decision. Even more
alarming to us than the out-of-date facilities of the college infirmary are the hours kept by the physicians who work
there. The advertised doctor’s hours are seldom kept, to the best of our knowledge. Students constantly complain of going to
see the doctor during posted hours only to find that the physician has left long before. We feel that it
is imperative for the advertised doctor hours and the actual hours spent by the physicians to coincide.

According to representatives of the trustee Student Life Committee, Dean of Students Will H. Terry has been designated as the
organizer of the health service study. The evaluation process, including interviews with students, infirmary personnel, and the physicians, is to
begin this week. We are most pleased to see that Dr. James McFarland, formerly a member of the Duke University
Student Health Service, was asked to play a major role in the study. We encourage students to participate actively in
the evaluation process.

Gus Succop

On Monday, May 12, at 8:00 pm, the Davidsonian College Honors Center will have in its midst a National Book
Award winner, a Bollingen Award recipient, and the twentieth-century heir to the line of poets (Emerson, Whitman, Stevens, Williams) who
constitute American Romantic Poetry. I refer to the unprecedented consent of A.R. Ammons to come to Davidson and read his
poetry.

Before I begin to foam at the mouth, I want to call to everyone’s attention an article by Harriet Doar
on Ammons. The article may be found on page 4b of the Sunday, January 26, 1975 issue.Of the Charlotte Observer.
And so you’ll want to rush on over to the library to read it, allow me to whet your appetite.
Ms. Doar stated that: “Now an endowed professor at Cornell (Goldwin Smith professor of poetry), he is spending a sabbatical
year teaching a poetry workshop at Wake Forest University, his alma mater. So he was ‘back home’ when he learned
this month that he had won the most distinguished award in American poetry, the Bollingen, for his new book, “Sphere:
The Form of a Motion,” published in December... He’s as open to people, one-by-one, as he is to words and
perceptions. But not people in rows in auditoriums; they scare him. He no longer gives public readings—he never got inured
to it—though he likes to read with friends.”

Mr. Ammons is not an academic poet. He is a fun poet who writes about expressive relationships he has experienced
in nature. For instance, the last time he was at Davidson, Herb Jackson, a student at that time, took Ammons
out to see the standing egg rock. He loved it. And when I told him egg rock had fallen over,
he loved it even more. Mr. Ammons’ spirit to write comes from the natural processes he sees in nature. But,
Mr. Ammons would frown upon what happened to Hatties. Well, I’m beginning to foam at the mouth, so I’ll let
you go read Ms. Doar’s article in the Library. What a way to remember your spring term at Davidson.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night
will ordinarily be printed that week.

Koloditch blasts Aid Office for negligence

To the Editor:

Being on JYA (Madrid), I have had to register and get myself back into Davidson for senior year through the
mails. The Office of International Education has done a fine job of mailing me Davidsonians. The Registrar has given me
ample time and information to register for courses; however, I seem to have been totally forgotten by the Office of
Student Housing, and, more importantly, by the Office of Financial Aid.

In regards to housing, that is a lesser problem that can be solved later, and with the way the administration
has screwed up housing by not consulting Scotty Nicolls about changes in enrollment, I can understand the slight. The neglect
of the Financial Aid Office is a much more serious and frustrating problem. My parents paid the tuition deposit, submitted
the Parents’ Confidential Statement and requested that a Financial Aid application be sent to either them or myself. This was
in early March. In early April, I mailed another request to the Financial Aid Office for an application. As I
remember from last year, the deadline for submitting applications is April 30, though it may be different now which shows
how much I’ve been informed. Today's date is April 29, and I have yet to receive an application, meaning I
can’t possibly make the deadline.

For me, this is a personal disaster, for there is no way I can return to Davidson next year without
financial aid. The Financial Aid Office has had ample time to supply me with an application—the blame is theirs, not
mine. Perhaps a public complaint such as this will help. I don’t know what can be done now that the
deadline is a foregone possibility, but maybe someone can help me correct the damage caused by the neglect of the
Financial Aid Office.

James Koloditch ’76
Madrid, Spain

To the Editor:

At the end of a letter from Tony Boon who is at Marburg this year, he wrote his feelings about
his year abroad. I felt that your newspaper might like to publish it.

Francis Ghigo
Professor of French
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Since I’m writing, I’ll include my unsolicited opinion of JYA: It’s the opportunity of a lifetime, and if all the
freshmen and sophomores knew how it was, there would never be any Junior students on campus. They'd all be over
here.

Nevertheless, I’m excited about getting back to Davidson, and I hope everything’s going well there. I'll be looking forward to
seeing you in the fall.

Tony Boon ‘76
Marburg, Germany
