October 24, 1975 - The Davidsonian

Stacking the shelf: Director of Library Leland Park reports new acquisitions.

Stone comments on class,
By RON NESSEN
Staff Writer

In the most shocking event at Davidson since the last time Chip Stone was seen in his office, the entire
freshman class disappeared sometime during the first few weeks of this term. Neither hide nor hair has been seen of
the first-year men since. The loss was discovered Tuesday night by Freshman Advisor Tony Abbott, as he rode his bike
past Watts Dormitory.

Exactly when the freshmen disappeared is still a subject of great speculation. No one on campus can remember the last
time they actually saw a freshman, much less spoke to one. As one freshman hall counselor, Paul Banta, put it,
“When did this happen? I just assumed they were all in the library.”

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. displayed his customary concern about students. “I’m sure that everything possible is being done by
the proper authorities to resolve this situation. Dean Terry is working on it right now,” he said. Dean Will H.
Terry was notified shortly thereafter. “Whaaaaaaat? Why didn’t my informants, err... contacts inform me? I’m certain, though, that President Spencer
is doing everything in his power to rectify the situation.”

The Davidson police force is also mystified by the disappearance. “I wasn’t even sure there was a freshman class this
year. We’ve been investigating, but we have no leads as of right now. We just know they’re not at the
7-11,” said Lieutenant Joe Hughes. “It’s difficult to work without being able to pinpoint the exact date of the disappearance.
We’ve interviewed several to see the honor system working so well. The praise,” concluded one species of library users in
general, but at the thoughtful people who brought us the

By HUGHE A. and JANE PARKS GREY
Staff Writers

TESTS don't mean much unless you

Leland Park, director of the library, announced that the library has 369 more books in October than reported in last
month’s inventory. “Most of these 369 books bear the stamps of other libraries,” commented Parks. These books come from various
institutions from across the state. Included in the new collection are books from University of North Carolina, Wake Forest, and
Duke University. “We have to figure a way to see the honor system working so well. The praise,” concluded one
species of library users in general, but at the thoughtful people who brought us the books.bare minimum of $10.00 per
book. That means gains of at least $3,000 to $4,000 each year. But the best aspect of these acquisitions is
not the financial but rather the fact that a great number of the acquired books are irreplaceable to their mother
institutions.” Plans now call for the development of a special display called “New Acquisitions,” to include books from the various
libraries. “A free library is very much a privilege, and exists mainly because of the honor system,” commented Parks. “We
are extremely encouraged,” Parks continued, “not leveled at any books.”

People in Sentelle Dormitory, Wilensky to edit Update, Lawrimore takes new post

By MARTHA BYRD
Staff Writer

Tuesday morning, Mark Wilensky was named to the position of editor of the Davidson Update. The paper is the Alumni
newsletter of a small liberal arts college of 1300 students in rural N.C. The move came surprisingly fast as College
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. named Wilensky to the post only 12 hours before former Update Editor Buck Larrimore resigned
his position at the College. Mr. Larrimore will go to New York to become sports editor for Guideposts Magazine.

“This is a real opportunity for me,” said Larrimore. “It’s simply stupendous to go from the greatest alumni paper of
the past 20 years to what will be the leading monthly in America for the next decade. Dr. Norman Vincent
Peale said that he had been studying my work on the Update for some time now, and that I appeared
to be optimistic enough for the job. I’m already working on a story of a successful Davidson football star who
at the peak of his playing career at Davidson met the Lord and became a success. Did you know that
Davidson College is a small liberal arts college of 1300 situated in rural N.C.?”

In making the announcement for the College, President Spencer praised Wilensky. “We're really happy to have Mark on our payroll.
I’ve been looking out for him ever since he has been at Davidson, and am pleased to have him closer
to my side. Mark was a fairly simple choice,” remarked Spencer. “We needed someone who could fill Buck’s shoes, and
Mark stepped right in.”

“I want to pledge to all students that the Update will have something for them, too,” said Wilensky. “For starters,
we will have Dr. Nelson in an evening gown sitting in that damn captain’s chair, and a story on how
the average Davidson woman came to this small liberal arts college to get a husband. This will be a paper
the college can be proud of.”

SGA President John Munce gave approval for the students and the SGA Senate. “We heartily approve of the appointment. Of
course, our approval is pretty useless and unasked for.”

“Know how they were made and controlled. But here’s one test that can PROVE something. Open your checking account at
Piedmont Bank and see how much further your family dollars will go. You will feel as wise as an old
OWL once you've made this test. We wouldn't suggest it if we didn’t know the answer... which proves we're not
so STUPID.”
