April 14, 1975. The Davidsonian

Seven T Vie Mi \ Thom Nicoll

Denely forms ancestral link

It is gratifying to be a Davidson man, now prepared to go out into the world and to practice Davidson ideals. Nevertheless, I have always suspected that my college ties are somewhat not so firmly knotted as they could be. I was not privileged to be born into such a Davidson family as many of you are proud to belong to. In an attempt to over-compensate for this lack, I have decided to focus the light of historical scholarship into the gloom of obscure Davidsoniana to revive the memory of my only inherited link with Davidson College.

Listeners thaw icy gap, Experience new learning

A foggy morning wandering, in Davidson as well as most everywhere else, feels like an empty football stadium. Scattered characters disappear around corners like cracked beer cups blown about. One such character stood his ground on the street corner hoping I would pass. I did, and I could see it in his eyes: he needed to talk. He was decked out in padded Army cold weather dress on a fine spring morning, and I sensed something cold cubing inside him. Just back from a weekend maneuver in the mountains, he had been stationed under the red light alone to wait and steer the trailing part of the convoy. “So cold last night I went and got me a motel room.” And it was so quiet and empty on this morning that he was eager to talk to scraggly me. After a few minutes of nods and “Yeah I knows” he poured out most of his peeves against the institution that had burgled his weekend. I hope his wait wasn’t as chilly when I wandered on to secure a shower before the hot water went. And I hope he made it to that fishing spot he talked about. A good ear can be like a good defrosting. When the freezer gets crammed with three 90 percent empty half-gallon ice cream cartons, two 100 percent full packages of frozen broccoli bought in the fall, two 77 percent empty ice trays, and 3.5 pounds of frost collected since Christmas, you can’t get anything out. To get things coming out again like you want them, you have to melt something. G.I. Joe on the corner was clogged and latched on to me for an icepick (an unlikely comparison if ever there was). A good ear can be like a good defrosting. Talking and listening are arts we learn that don’t make it on the transcript. A little talk about talking: refrigeration is necessary. We take the things we grow, store them, lower the temperature a little, and wait for the curious to come and rummage through. You run into all sorts of talkers. Some just haven’t grown anything and have a lot of frost clogging the freezer. (Hot air equals cold air in this system). Some are energetic gardeners but pick everything too early and let it rot in the sun, talking it to death, bending your ear back and back until cartilage decides that well, after all, it is bone of a sorts and cracks. And some talkers know all about the glorious arts of home canning and refrigeration. They have a jam-packed freezer where everything slides out easy. They can be as wonderfully surprising when they show their wares as a Howard Johnson’s waitress who can click off all 28 flavors without looking at the list.

Eric Walker

A little talk about listening: practice defrosting. When the talkers’ freezers get clogged, they need a little warming. Hint: a good way to stock your own freezer is to steal from others. They shouldn’t mind. You decide which you’re better at: stocking your own shelves or helping others keep theirs working. I’m convinced the best way to build up a store of well-aged talk is to peruse the frozen goods section whenever you can. Find the best and biggest freezers: listen. We listen; we build to talk.

Mark Wilensky

The link in question is Fred Lafayette Denely, my great uncle, who died several years ago in Denton, Texas. Uncle Fred grew up with his six brothers and sisters on a farm on Sand Mountain, Alabama (now famous as the nation’s most densely populated rural area and the home of Sand Mountain Sorghum Molasses). This unassuming background led the Denely clan into remarkable and varied lives and careers. Especially Uncle Fred. Frankly, I never knew him very well, and my knowledge of the details of his life is shaky. However, I have just conducted a study of what must have been one of the decisive points of his career: his employment as professor of public speaking and debate at Davidson in 1923 and 1924. The 1924 Quips and Cranks credits Uncle Fred with an A.B. and a B.O. That means Bachelor of Oratory I am sure. In the dramatic club article, Uncle Fred is thanked for his supervision and especially for his skill in the “art of good characterizations.” The Davidsonian early September 1923, fills the picture with an article on new faculty members. “Mr. Denely graduated from Valparaiso University, in Indiana, and completed his course there in 1921. In addition to this training he has taken special courses in the University of Chicago and in the University of Indiana. While in college, Mr. Denely was president of his class all four years, and in his senior year, he was honored with the presidency of the YMCA. His work since graduation has consisted of one year in business in Los Angeles, California as professor of public speaking and director of dramatics in El Paso Junior College, and one year in Chautauqua work as an impersonator and actor.” I should note now that this wit of impersonation served him well throughout his life. Out of work during the Depression, he managed to get himself hired at “Encyclopedia Britannica” as an art editor, a field for which he had, I understand, only a nodding acquaintance. This particular deception alone places— Uncle Fred is high on my list of admired relatives. Significantly, I suppose, Uncle Fred’s Davidson experience ended rather soon and rather abruptly. The front page of the November 6, 1924 Davidsonian carried this news: “Professor F.L. Denely, professor of public speaking and assistant in English, has received an offer as business manager of ‘Smart Set’ (a magazine) and will leave for New York on the fifteenth of this month. Mr. Denely will take up his new work on January 1, the month and a half from now until then being put into training. The English department has had Mr. Denely since the fall of 1923, when he came as professor of public speaking.” At that time he was pressed into service taking over two sections of freshman English. Since then he has been assistant professor of English. “Professor Denely is well suited for such work because he came to Davidson from the business world. Not only in the college, but in the social life of the village, Mr. and Mrs. Denely will leave a gap.”

I guess Uncle Fred did not enjoy being had by the English department. Besides, I understand that it had been pointed out to him, that if he were to stay at Davidson, his B.O. would not always suffice. Further degrees would be expected. Uncle Fred decided that he didn’t want to stay around here that badly, so he accepted the magazine offer. From that point on, I know little about his career, except that he ended up with an insurance business in Denton, and that he wrote a great quantity of light verse, which he would read at family gatherings and civic club meetings. So all perk Ray-sayers will undoubtedly say that my relation to Fred hardly entitles me to added respect because Uncle Fred was too eager to leave Davidson. To the contrary, I insist that any connection is better than none, and that Uncle Fred’s encounter with Davidson, however brief, is something for me to be proud of.

Honorary degrees appear farcical. That evening I got the letter that I was honored. By the next day I knew I had to refuse. I couldn’t accept whatever award the College was to give me on Friday morning. The whole awards assembly puts me off. Leon Jaworski is a hell of an honest guy, and nowadays that is all too rare. But an honorary degree from Davidson? What does Jaworski have to do with this college? Davidson doesn’t even give real doctorates. Why do we pretend we can give honorary ones?

In its usual vision, the College has decided that bestowing a degree on Jaworski would bring a real honor to Davidson. Jaworski, for his part, graciously accepted. But, while I’m sure he’s flattered, how much can being an honorary D.C. doctorate mean to Jaworski? I’d assert it’s not the most significant honor he has, or will receive.

The real question is maybe whether or not the College should give honorary degrees. I feel they should, and would like to present my three nominees: Fred Deese, Nancy Blackwell, and Louis Connor. Fred Deese is a custodian in the Union. The man does a job that can be demanding as well as demeaning. Fred has put in 19 years and continues to retain a dignity difficult to believe considering his working environment. He has been nothing but a credit to Davidson. Nancy Blackwell puts in more hours, both in the office and out, than any two people at Davidson. She puts in extra time typing term papers for students. With Mr. Blackwell’s recent physical problems, the money comes in handy, but the job she does is worth twice what she charges. She enjoys helping students, and spends as much time as she can doing so. Louis Connor is an amazing fellow. He always has a smile and a kind word for all. Many of his “superiors” continue to treat him like dirt, but Louis carries on. He runs the mimeograph room and takes care of the college mail. Louis may appear to be the typical “freed slave,” subservient all the way. But ask Johnson’s barbershop who began the sit-in at their place in the 60’s. Louis is a man. How about honorary degrees for these three? They’ve given years of sweat and loyalty to Davidson for marginal financial retribution. They, unlike Jaworski, are unlikely to have received any other degree. They would appreciate the degree more than Jaworski could ever appreciate it.

Craven Williams and Bob Stephenson pretty much verbalized College policy: these three people are good ones, but they aren’t right for a degree. Stephenson suggested a separate award for staff. Williams pointed out that these people hadn’t done what was expected to receive an academic award. Bullshit. Jaworski’s done nothing academically here. He is being honored as a person. He’s a famous white man. These are black men and a woman. Therefore, they can’t be honored in the same way. Stephenson and the administration will honor them, but only in their places. As good staff people, but only that.

The honorary degree is the highest award given here. It shouldn’t be a class award, but a human one. The argument that these people have not made academic contributions to justify the award is faulty. Fred, Nancy, or Louis having Davidson degrees will in no way cheapen the work I’m doing to get mine. It would rather enlarge it. Davidson’s degree would mean so much to these people; but, not half as much as they’ve meant to it.

I don’t want any honorary awards, Dr. Spencer. Mr. Meetze laughingly told me that the college had never repaired those slums, but that his men just slapped a coat of paint on them to quiet the publicity. As I pointed out in September and Andy Lamas followed up last week, blacks here make poverty wages. And during the alumni weekend, many members of the college community gathered in Johnston Gym and honored bigotry in laughter. I can’t let you “honor” me. Thanks, but no thanks.