The Davidsonian
April 24, 1975

George Weicker ... nation's leading collegiate batter

Wildcats upend Cocks
By Young Buck
ex-IMAC Writer

The Davidson College baseball team toppled the Cocks 4-3 behind the 14-hit pitching of Joel Tew Tuesday night in Columbia. South Carolina was fifth-ranked in the nation with a record of 34-3, including absolutely no losses at home. Having witnessed the umpiring coach Bobby Richardson (ex-Yankee) gets, it is doubtful they will lose again at home until Davidson returns.

Our totally non-subsidized “minor sport” baseball team beating Notre Dame at South Bend. It’s not that feasible, but it happened... just ask the Gamecocks. So enough of the emotional dramatic survey. Davidson was sky high and ready to kick some Gamecocks' tails. South Carolina was extremely cocky and nonchalant in their approach to the game.

The game was scoreless for the first 3 1/2 innings with both teams missing several scoring opportunities. In the bottom of the fourth, Jeff Gantz hit a two-run homer for Carolina to give them a 2-0 lead. But in the top of the sixth, the Wildcat bats came alive in a hurry. Gary Pomeroy singled up the middle and George Weicker hit an outside fastball over the right field fence for his ninth home run of the year and a tie ball game. Mark Rodgeman singled in the hole and then Eddie Willingham blooped a Texas leaguer over the right side. Exit starting pitcher Mike Kroemer; enter relief specialist Dick Bill Lynn.

Ben Simms put down a perfect bunt and Terry Hummel, running for Rodgeman, beat the throw to third. Still with nobody out, Billy Todd lashed a two-run double to right to give the Cats a 4-2 lead. Tew allowed an unearned run in the bottom of the sixth and then pitched out of jams in the eighth and ninth innings, getting cleanup hitter Dave King to fly out to Mitch Stone, touching off a joyous celebration for the winners. Tew increased his record to 6-4 as he displayed some of the clutchest pitching ever seen on a college diamond.

For the Wildcats, who had beaten Catawba 14-4 and Furman 11-7 in a comeback thriller, it was their 17th win against 14 losses, moving them closer to their 20-win goal. The win over Carolina meant even more for first-year coach Junior Wade's charges as they had to bounce back from a heartbreaking 5-4 loss to Pfeiffer Monday despite Mike Hall's fine pitching effort.

After the South Carolina game, coach Bobby Richardson did not seem to be able to handle the loss as he told the Davidson team to “cool” their celebration and also told Terry Hummel: “nice game, son... get a haircut.” Do it, coach.

To me, the most beautiful sight in the world is a fly ball to Mitch Stone, a silenced Carolina crowd of 3000, and a steaming Bobby Richardson, who can’t believe what he just saw. Face it, Bobby, Davidson’s baseball team came to play this year and will win 20 games, finish second in the Southern Conference, and satisfy their wish.

Frank Stiefel

Spring is sprung yet again: More baseball business told

At last, the weather seems to have realized that it’s the end of April and 60-degree weather just isn’t good enough. Spring fever is seeping its way into the student body, accompanied by those three major side effects: craziness, allergies, and professional baseball. Charlotte, that bustling metropolis in progressive North Carolina, refuses...to telecast NBA or NHL games. However, not even they would dare commit the federal crime of not showing baseball. Though the season is still young, there are many developments which have provided the rabid fan with hours of speculation.

First, there is the already publicized Catfish Hunter. Sporting an 0-3 record, Catfish goes to the mound today against the hated Bosox. Being a diehard Yankee fan, I keep telling myself he’ll come around with the warm weather. It seems, though, that Catfish’s finger was injured in the offseason from excessive trigger pulling. He now has the bad habit of throwing hanging curveballs. If he doesn’t recover soon, Hunter may contract neck cramps from watching balls being hit out of the park.

The Kansas City Royals have started the season hot, but this is no real surprise to the seasoned fan. The Royals can hit as well as anyone, but it remains to be seen if their pitching will hold. The powerful Oakland A’s circus is right behind them, and with weaknesses from trading it remains to be seen if they can get their title as easily as before.

In the N.L. East, the Chicago Cubs have started off hot, but will probably melt before August. It should be a race between the Phillies, Pirates, and Cardinals. If the Phillies can get some consistent pitching from Carlton and Twitchell, they could get their first pennant in light years.

The N.L. West contains what I feel to be the surprise team in baseball, the San Diego Padres. They have seasoned veterans in Willie McCovey and Tito (Hot Dog) Fuentes, and two youngsters named Winfield and Ivie who show great promise. The pitching will need time to get used to the majors, and the best the Padres can hope for is third place behind powerful Los Angeles and Cincinnati. This division also has the worst team in baseball, the Atlanta Braves. It is too bad that Ralph Garr and Dusty Baker must be saddled with this team. Atlanta is not a baseball town and will probably never have the finances to produce a winner. However, at the rate New York City is moving down there, you never know.

It looks like the summer will produce some good races, with perhaps a surprise winner or two. I won’t even attempt to make any predictions, but I do promise a few Molson’s will be drunk while watching the ball games. Maybe it will be a great summer and NBC will realize how dumb Kurt Gowdy is.

Davidson will conclude its first winning season in a long time with a home game May 1 against Lenoir Rhyne, marking the last appearance of senior regulars Weicker, Lynn, Rodgeman, Stone, Pomeroy, and Todd.

DID YOU KNOW?
A YEAR or a SEMESTER abroad may be cheaper than a YEAR or SEMESTER in the States. Why not live, study, and learn in EUROPE?

ACADEMIC YEAR ABROAD
221 East 50th Street
New York, NY 10022

Piedmont Insurance Agency, Inc.
137 N. MAIN ST.
DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

First Union National
DAVIDSON