October 10, 1975

the davidsonian

Davidson sailors prepare their Jet 14’s for a team practice this week.
-Leon Venable

... IMAC runs
(Continued from page 10)

The Result: 2nd Richardson lost six yards but the powerful Emanon only lost five to take the victory.

There was also an overtime game played by two “freshman” girls’ teams. It was equally listless. 1st and 3rd Watts battled to a 0-0 tie for two halves, as neither team seemed able to score (painfully typical for Davidson coeds).

Led by the aggressive Van “I collect athletes” Williamson and the good hands of Wildcat trainer Leea Pittenger (ask any football player with a groin injury), 1st Watts strutted to the win on a quick four downs. 3rd Watts’ standout Sabine Kelischek said to these reporters, “They had the horses, we had the cows.”

The Harlem Shufflers have had a rough schedule to date and the results reflect it. They have lost twice, both times to powerful teams.

In other action, Emanon lengthened its unprecedented winning streak to two as they defeated 2nd Richardson in a heart-stopping overtime contest. At the end of regulation time, the score stood at 18-all.

...Plunge investigates
(Continued from page 2)

“provide consistency,” said Chairman of the Plunge project Andy Lamas. Students divided into teams of two to interview the many principals and PTA presidents.

Although the study was quite intense, students did have free time at night and on the weekends to do as they liked. “The close personal relationships that developed were an added bonus,” said English.

The students, as well as Dr. Ruth, stayed at the guest house of Morris-Brown College, a part of Atlanta University, in the heart of downtown Atlanta. “It was a dorm-type situation with everyone having a roommate,” stated English.

Dr. Ruth’s role in the project was not as the leader who made the decisions for the students; rather, he was merely a consultant and advisor.

“Dr. Ruth had been working with Washington, D.C. and New York City schools,” said English.

“He gave practical advice and helped to draw up the interview questions. He warned us about what areas might be sensitive to the people we interviewed so we would best know how to handle the interview. He was really not the leader; the project was a group effort.”

Students in the Plunge project had the option of receiving academic credit for their participation. “About fifty percent of the participants elected to receive credit,” stated Lamas.

“They could choose to be graded on a pass-fail basis or by letter grade,” he added.

Summarizing her experience, English said, “The project was very worthwhile. It was basically a lesson in city government politics and how blatantly political the administration in a school system is.”

Lamas considers the value of the project to be the experience of “walking through a proposal.”

According to Dr. Ruth, a copy of the final draft of their paper, now being composed, with their results and recommendations will be sent to the Charlotte Observer, the Charlotte News, and the Atlanta Council for Public Education.

When the final draft of the Atlanta Plunge project paper is finished, Wood, Dr. Ruth, and members of the Plunge team will make a general evaluation of the project and offer suggestions as to how future related projects might be improved.

Need a job?
The SGA Is Looking For A New Chancellor

Duties are roughly those of secretary-treasurer
Important, paid position
For information, contact:
John Munce--North Main House -4583
Brad Swalwell S112 -7788
or drop by the SGA office
[top floor of Union] any afternoon after 3:00

Compliments of
CASHIONS FOOD MARKET
CORNELIUS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION
SNACK BAR SPECIAL

WILDCAT SPECIAL & FRENCH FRIES $.85
FRIDAY 10/10 - THURSDAY 10/16

WOODSHED
1105 NORTH MAIN STREET

LIVE MUSIC WED THRU SAT
HAPPY HOUR EVERY NITE FROM 8-9
DRAFT $.15

WEDNESDAY
WED NITE IS BEER NITE- COVER $1.00
DRAFT $.25 CANS $.35

THURSDAY
COVER $1.00

FRIDAY
COVER $2.00 (LADIES FREE)

SATURDAY
COVER $2.50

FLEUR ALICIA
Gifts for all occasions

THE FINAL TOUCH
Gifts & Decorative Accessories

THE PLANT PLACE
Plants, cacti, etc.

THE BOOK GARDEN
Books on wines, food, plants

Domestic & imported gourmet foods, wines & imported beers. Now bread & croissants from the best boulangerie in Atlanta. Cheeses & wines for parties. Call Ben.

Mon. - Sat. 9-6 p.m.
Sunday 1-5 p.m.

Come visit the shops at Bumblebee Corner, between Barrett's and Hager's Service Station.