The Davidsonian

Eleven

IMAC

News rules finally printed as all tournaments get underway

By PAUL BANTA and AL EDMONDS

We have received the anguished cries of many IMAC participants the last few weeks concerning the absence of their teams from this column. For them, we issue the following steps for one’s team to follow to ensure recognition:

1) Win all your games and/or lead your division
2) Lose all your games or be last in your division
3) Beat a top team
4) Lose to a top team spectacularly
5) Play on the same team with the author of this column.

Only the best and the brightest and the worst and the weakest get the spotlight. But, for this week, we’ll make an exception and mention almost all the teams.

In the words of Senator Roman Hruska (Rep.-Neb). “Don’t the mediocre people of this county deserve some representation?”

Both the softball and volleyball tournaments started this week. In softball, the Beavers punched out the Ragmen, the Cleveland Browns KO’d KA#2, and were then given a bye to the final eight as both C-III and PDT “B” forgot to show.

The Gozinvas edged the Gamms in an intra-house match. The Gozinvas challenge the Beavers next. Chakras toppled PIKA, as the “Pikers” used both steps 2 and 4 to earn a place in this column.

SAE, which ended the regular season on a hot streak, should shoot past the SOB’s and Chakras into the final eight.

Phi Delt “A” should prevail in what looks like a weak grouping. The only hope for the Starfudgers (sorry, guys, but my mom reads the column) is that their bats become as offensive as their name.

The next grouping features a classic battle between the Summer Richards and the Bongs, a tribute to Bowie’s scheduling mastery.

Only the addition of Ockham’s Razor would make this division more complete as the battling blades would be the logical choice to castrate the playoff hopes of the Richards and Bongs.

But, alas, the other teams in this division are the SPE’s and Pency Prep, with the SPE’s causing the most problems. (Read whatever you can into that.)

The Kerwood Derbies should emerge from the next grouping by defeating C-II in the first game and defeating the winner of Snow White, Etc. in the second. The next grouping features defending champs KA #2 who should advance by ribbing Chocolate Speedway, and topping the winner of RII-Penthouse.

The final grouping contains pre-season favorite IFT, who should first asphyxiate ATO #1, and then either pulverize Pax or expunge Emanon.

Turning to volleyball, Banta and Edmonds must adhere to Title IX even if Scottie Nichols has immunity.

The only girls IMAC team worth writing about is The Clinic, a rowdy bunch of girl basketball players. The team is led by “Catfish” Morton, “Chuck” Matheny, because the toughest kid on any block is always named Chuck, and “Sally G” Bondurant.

Look for The Clinic to vacuum out their opponents and abort their hopes for an IMAC crown.

The final eight in IMAC volleyball should be the Gamms, SPE’s, Perkins “A”, SIF’s, Emanon 2, Ockham’s Razor, SAE, and IFT. The only real surprise here are the SAE’s, who defeated the Bongs in the first round. The Thi’s are still the favorites, with the SIF’s, SPE’s, and Derbies most likely to pull off an upset.

In accordance with our new policy of including mediocre teams in this column, we have decided to highlight one of the most common “mediocre institutions” at Davidson: Pency Prep, “You’ve probably heard of it.”

As Bill Green asserted in his letter to the Davidsonian, the Prep’s basic philosophy is not to win but to have fun. “Since 1888 we have been molding boys into splendid, clear-thinking young men.”

A team with as much tradition as Pency Prep must have its stars. Pency’s most well-known personalities are Robert Ackley, Stradlater, and Holden Caulfield, the catcher.

The “winning at all costs” jock attitude is not inherent at Pency; instead, it is the antithesis of Pency’s. As Caulfield states, “all the athletic bastards stick together.” But, recently, the jock ideals have been making inroads at Pency.

Bill Green’s letter last week was not characteristic of a “play for fun” philosophy, but was characteristic of a frustrated IMAC loser, who takes each IMAC decision seriously.

In refutation of this dangerous philosophy, Caulfield retorts, “...you were supposed to commit suicide or something if Pency didn’t win.”

All IMAC fans hope that this remains the minority view on Pency’s participation, for if this philosophy should prevail, it is doubtful that Pency Prep would survive the first one or two flickerball games, and Davidson would be deprived of its most colorful, if least effective team.

DAVIDSON

—Scott Buell Power Hitter

Support our advertisers Tell them you saw their ad in The Davidsonian

PEREGRINE HOUSE PRESENTS

John Kuenitzel Sunday lunch 12:00 Sunday night 8:00 light folk music come and enjoy!

Mitchem Opticians Fast & Accurate Service

Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician Prescriptions Filled 206 N. Main Glasses Repaired Glasses Adjusted Ph. 663-3942 Sunglasses Mooresville