The Davidsonian
February 6, 1975

IMACers Search

The Ice Man Cometh; C.A. and Y.B. have seen a vision and a half! Where were you when the lights went out, turkeys, (nerds for you, Dr. Q.). Man, we caught the blow between Belk and Chambers listening to the tumbling pines crush waylaid Pintos. And lo there it be, shining like the mythical star that hovered over Nazareth, Bethlehem or Cornelius, one of those small Mideastern towns, the light that lunched a thousand freshmen, the eternal flame of Humes, the torch of Abbo. From the farthest reaches of the labyrinths of the Castle Chambers there came an eerie light surrounded only by the pure black of total night. (For you science majors, this means the only light on campus came from Abbo’s office).

The night had been a hard one. The surface of the moon, a negative of daylight, lit a million sets of spider webs. What was it Hollywood had told me? Two special sauces, onions, pickles, cheese and a couple of buns, sesame seeds, I think. It was a strange night, and the lights have gone out on campus, and the only light on was Abbo’s. We decided to investigate.

Young Buck expressed sincere apprehension, recalling his earlier experiences. As he succinctly put it, “We don’t know what we’re getting our rosy red rears into.” Maybe Hollywood told me about the fear that is struck in the heart of elephants when Young Buck discusses his sex life. Young Buck had implied investigating the light from Abbo’s office was tantamount to gambling our gonads. Regardless, we surged on.

Tiptoeing ever so lightly, in our size 13 Converse ankle-breakers, across the slush we moved towards the sinister example of Neo-Chalmers Davidson-Grit-Architecture, the House of Chambers, where the feared Dread One Abbo stirred. As we entered the large entrapment which by day innocently posed as a front door, we detected the smell of freshly graded philosophy papers. The stench was so unholy C.A. puked cookies to relieve the pungent odor. As we moved on down the seemingly endless corridors, the odor vanished, leaving only the ominous twinges and creaks of leather against flesh which C.A. recognized from his recently completed perverted road trip.

Worshipping God is only the start. Start treating your brothers and sisters like brothers and sisters.

A Public Service of This Newspaper & The Advertising Council

For Midnight Hoagies or on Rye:
Roast Beef
Turkey
Corned Beef
Salami

8:00 A.M.—7:30 P.M. Mon.-Wed.
8:00 A.M.—1:00 A.M. Thurs.-Sat.
12 noon—10:00 P.M. Sundays

CAPTAIN AMERICA

Pika and Whored clashed in IMAC action this week

A nice place to get together for choice food and drink—a meeting place for conversation or a quiet game of chess.

Dengue Heroes (Photo by Leon Venable)said Y.B., “I ain’t up to messing with...with...that thing.” C.A. calmly replied, “But he’s here; and he’s alone, and after all, we’ll kick him if he gets smart.” As we turned the last (and first) corner, we heard hideous cackling. C.A. said the blunt approach was the only way to do it. “Act like we were just walking through.” 

“Oh, sure,” said Y.B. “We are always just walking through this library rat-infested building.” Well, C.A. turned and suavely made his presence known. “How they hanging, Abbo?” Abbo quickly turned, stunned for an instant, but almost immediately began to roar with insane laughter. “You’re too late, you sniveling fools. I’m finished, I can’t be stopped.”

“Hey, Abbo,” continued C.A. “Have you seen Stan Boskovich around? Me and Witz have been looking for him for about a week.”

“Cease your senseless prattle, dolts,” Abbo cried.

“Hey, C.A., this turkey is tripping. Look at his walls,” warned Y.B. Y.B. was right, which was rare in itself. Along the walls were reflections of a man who had lost his grip on reality. The walls were covered with past humanity papers, and all of them were failures. One was in a gold case labeled, “Jeff Hallman, -8.”

---

Mitchem's Fast & Accurate Service

It's been a long time coming, but we're opening at last Friday, February 7 at 8:00 A.M. Homemade soup daily—Kraut—Potato salad—a “Plowman’s Lunch” of Sourdough bread, Sharp cheddar, and Apple juice—Cheesecake, Pastries, & even Bagels. Come by for a visit and we'll guarantee you'll be at home at our house.

Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician
Prescriptions Filled
206 N. Main
Glasses Repaired
Glasses Adjusted
Ph. 663-3942
Sunglasses
Mooresville
Bashful’s, Ltd.

---

“And I gave him ten points,” chuckled Abbo. We also noticed an autographed picture of Socrates which said, “To Abbo, my favorite child disciple.” If that doesn’t strike you as odd, there were four-foot screws laying around with names on them.

“Holy rectum,” said Young Buck. “He’s got a four-foot screwdriver on his desk.”

“I thought it was Stan Boskovich,” mumbled C.A.

“Don’t you want to hear my devious plan, fools?” snapped Abbo. “Well rats! Don’t you want to know what the child disciple has in store for yourselves? Not this week, Charlie. Can’t you see that four-foot screw heading for you? We’re gonna pick this up next week although it will be tough to get in this mental state (to use the term loosely) again. Tune in next week to find out why Abbo’s light is the only one on. What’s he doing? What did Hollywood say? Who is Stan Boskovich, and why can’t C.A. find him? Will Y.B. tell Abbo to go find himself once more? What does Abbo do on weekends? Oh yes, you think you got it bad. How do you think we like rotting in Abbo’s office, huh? Blow it out your shorts next week, hang in there for a while, and maybe Cheryl Tiegs will scuba dive in your private...

To be continued...

---

Opticians Downstairs at