January 30, 1975

Five The Ole One--Two

Meredith Hall At Home

U.S. Needs Creative Image

This old house has seen all of the presidents including Jefferson Davis. It has seen a time when Indian chiefs
actually controlled the territory. It saw most of the Georgian reign of England and the colonies. Some of the children
raised here were heroes of the Revolution. It has seen leaders and the need for leadership for a long time.
I have often wondered what a leader needs. Certainly courage, the ability to make decisions, and a sense of perspective.
But among the qualities required, I think imagination is often overlooked.

Not long ago a World Food Conference was held. At the same time, the United States was working hard to
keep its image in the world alive. Money was spent for radio, film, and paper propaganda. The Army, CIA, and
many other official organs were trying to develop a positive image for the United States with the rest of the
world. Images are important these days. Recently, they have been responsible for saving poets’ and ballet dancers’ lives. Images also
secure better trade agreements. Images are financially expensive but seem to cost less than wars. I believe images need not
be false. There really are a number of freedoms in this country of which we can be proud. There is
also a relatively high level of productivity (which need not be worshipped but which is there).

President Ford's method of developing our image (and his) was to go to Japan, Korea, and the U.S.S.R. My dream
was to see the president go to the World Food Conference. Prior to leaving and in a quiet fashion, he
would have talked to the grain storage companies, agricultural experts, and some members of Congress. This preliminary work would include
an agreement to hold the price of grain to a 2¢ rise. This rise would be due to the offer
of food to be made to starving nations. The capitalists in grain would take up 1¢ in the cost and
the public 1¢. Proceeding to the conference, the president would make a dramatic but genuine offer. He would note that
the United States had heard the call from the world's starving population. It was responding in a human fashion as
we have in the past (as with the Marshall Plan). He would state that the gift was coming from both
the capitalist and the consumer, thus taking some of the offensive for our economic system. Further, he would end his
gain with a few words delivered in the language of the Bangladesh delegation: "You have asked us and we have
answered--we have answered because we ARE your brothers."

It is my strong feeling that such a strong gesture was possible. The dramatic appearance of the President at the
World Food Conference, his offer of aid, and his closing comments recognizing brotherhood would have a more potent effect (for
less money) than our present efforts. Besides, as Harry Truman would say, it’s the right thing to do. It shocks
me to realize how many people will think this unrealistic. It is a comfort to recall the Peace Corps and
Marshall Plan were so considered.

Real Causes (Continued from page 4)

easily or articulated as clearly as on the first level. On this second level, the anxiety and fear stem from
recognition by the young that the elders of the tribe, for the first time in the history of mankind, do
not know any more than the young; therefore, the elders cannot serve as reliable guides for the future. The generation
conflict and gap in the past were based on jealousy--the young resented the fact that the old had first-hand knowledge
of the world from having lived in a past that was little, if any, different from the present and, therefore,
could, and had to, instruct the young. Today the conflict stems from anxiety and fear, produced by recognition by the
young that the elders do not have any real answers. George Wald’s famous speech, "A Generation in Search of a
Future," applies equally to the older generation and the younger generation. Margaret Mead described this situation in 1969, when she
wrote:

"... The elders are separated from the young by the fact that they too are a strangely isolated generation. No
generation has ever known, experienced, and incorporated such rapid changes, watched the sources of power, the means of communication, the
definition of humanity, the limits of their universe, the certainties of a known and limited world, the fundamental imperatives of
life and death—all change before their eyes.

"The result is that nowhere in the whole world are there any elders who know what the children know. In
the past, there were always some elders who knew more--in terms of experience, of having grown up within a system--than
any children. Today there are none."

The anxiety and fear on either level will be eliminated only when the institutional changes have been as profound and
numerous as the technological changes that have produced the uniquely new situation in the world. Several thinkers, notably Marx, Veblen,
and Whitehead, have pointed out this fact, but no one has stated it better and more succinctly than the late
Professor Erich Zimmermann:

"To be truly successful, every new invention, every new scientific and technological advance should have a counterpart invention, a counterpart
device in the realm of social institutions and social relationships. Not only must the potency of the social adjustment be
comparable to the power of the impact of the technological advances, but also its tempo, its..."speed.” It is entirely possible,
even highly probable, that the institutional changes have already been made, or are in the process of coming into being.
If one wants to understand what is involved and to participate in the creation and adoption of the new institutions,
he must understand and apply the system of thought known as Marxism. There are four major elements in Marxism: a
philosophy—dialectical materialism; a theory of history—historical materialism, not economic determinism or technological determinism; a theory of economics; and the concept
of alienation. Though an ability to apply the logic and ontology of dialectical materialism and a grasp of the elements
of Marxian economic theory would be helpful, one needs, in fact, only a thorough grasp and understanding of historical materialism,
a knowledge of the insights into the real nature of capitalism that Marx uncovered in the process of developing his
economic theory, and an understanding of the Marxian meaning of alienation and the source of this alienation in order to
be prepared to make some sense out of the current apparently thoroughly confused and completely chaotic situation. The anxiety and
fear will not disappear completely until the new but some relief and considerable intellectual satisfaction will be secured immediately after
acquiring the above, for one will begin to see that 95 percent of what he reads and hears about current
social and political issues and problems has an intellectual and practical value for understanding the real world that is below
the nutritional value of puffed rice.

Dixi et salvavi animam meam.

Symposium Suggests Social

The 1974 Self-Study report recognized the need for a stronger program in human sexuality at Davidson. The suggestion comes at
a time when Davidson has been highly criticized for not devoting enough attention to programs pertaining to personality development and
human values. Although the newly-emphasized Psychological Counseling Program and the Office of Experiential Programs and Development were created in the
recognition that there is more to personality development than academic, intellectual inquiry, human sexuality is one aspect of human values
that is receiving insufficient attention. By human sexuality I mean not only the physical acts involved, but also, and more
importantly, I mean a “highly complex and extremely subtle blend of biological, psychological, social, and interpersonal aspects of the total
meaning of being either a man or a woman (Schiller, Creative Approach to Sex Education and Counseling).” An effective program
includes not only an educational component, but also, and of equal importance, psychological counseling and clinical elements.

There are three reasons for including such a program at Davidson. First is to complement the student’s basic factual knowledge
about sex with information concerning the intricacies and problems of human sexuality. Dean of Students Will H. Terry said in
addressing himself to this problem: “There is a remarkable amount of ignorance in these areas... For this reason, I think
the kinds of opportunities for this information, in terms of counseling, infirmary service, and a course are important for Davidson
to provide.” Second, the advent of coeducation at Davidson has brought to our attention the need for a formal program
that will provide necessary clinical and counseling services, promote healthy attitudes towards sexuality, and present students with opportunities for exploration
of their values in regard to their sexuality. In expressing his support for the program, Meredith Hall, a member of
Davidson’s Psychological Counseling staff commented that “there is a strong need in any developing individual to be able to assimilate
their feelings as part of themselves. People get into difficulty when they have feelings they can’t actually relate to themselves.”
Achieving the ability to relate our feelings to ourselves is intrinsic to becoming a fuller person. The question “What does
sex mean to me; how do I feel about it?” is one that people must be encouraged to ask. Such
integral facts of our personhood cannot be overlooked.

Third, to present students with the resources needed in formulating mature sexual attitudes and outlooks. The aim here is not
to indoctrinate, but to provide resources with which students can, in a mature, intelligent, and informed manner, make decisions that
affect not only their “sexuality,” but their whole being. The college experience is described as an act of living. Sexuality
is part of our lives. We cannot, with clear conscience, avoid the responsibility to deal with a part of our
life, both in the academic and personal dimension. Just as it is hoped that students will have the ability to
make mature decisions concerning their academic personhoods, it should be hoped that they will have the same ability in regard
to their sexual personhood.

Discussing Student Development Services, the 1974 Self-Study Report states: “Through its student life program Davidson seeks... to provide a climate
in which students learn to be responsible... to provide an atmosphere in which human values are discussed and the opportunities
presented to explore these values...” We have progressed only slightly in realizing these objectives. Past programs such as the Human
Sexuality Symposium and the increased emphasis upon Psychological Counseling Services in this area are only a beginning. But we need
to advance far beyond these introductions and develop a strong, well-organized program in this area. Yesterday was too late to
begin. The self-study committee touched on the outlines of such a program. “...programs of active sex counseling need to be
incorporated into the general counseling program. In the areas of education, counseling, and actual medical facilities, the concerns of sex
need to be incorporated. A course in (See SEXUAL page 12)
