The Davidsonian, May 9, 1975

Tew puts Bears in hibernation
Gordon Widerhouse — Pete Goodman
Diamonders squeak by Bears
End season with 21-15 record

By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

In their last game of the season, the Davidson Wildcats beat the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears 3-2 in a tight game which went twelve innings. Joel Tew was the winning pitcher as the junior wound up his season record at 8-4. Things started out slowly for the Cats as Lenoir-Rhyne scored in the first inning to make the score 1-0. Davidson was hurting at the plate as...

The Big Man Instills Optimism

I have seen recruiting and been close to the men who do it (as a reporter) for years. I have seen optimism shattered with doubts, and expectations crushed with reality. I cannot help but feel that this is the year; that the miracle, which the coaching staff here has expected, has occurred.

The pessimism on the campus about basketball has been prevalent for the past couple of years. And I claim no exemption from the feeling. However, I think someone would have to go a long way in this world to find four men more optimistic and hopeful than Bo Brickels, Jim Larranaga, Harry Krohn, and James Brown. And when your team has just come off a 7-19 season, the students are beginning to get apathetic, and the days of Lefty and Hetzel are memories which become unpleasant as people agonize for their return, it is pretty tough to remain optimistic.

Krohn told me emphatically in January that “We are going to get the big man.” He did. Larranaga told me we needed a super scorer and inside man. He got them. Brickels felt the need for a new attitude. I think he may just have the essential ingredients. Perhaps optimism rubs off where it shouldn’t. All I know is that the optimism of these men has captured me.

It seems to me that there is real reason to get excited about Davidson basketball. Not just because we have the big man. But we have others to go with him, both in newcomers and returnees. The combination looks pretty good. Brickels said to me that this may enable him to change the “Davidson Way,” which is “if you don’t think you can win in basketball, don’t get uptight about it and then when it doesn’t happen, you don’t feel let down.” He thinks he can change that. And I, for one, believe he certainly can. At least I hope so.

Of course, one can always use the example of the claim Kentucky fans made four years ago, when they had four super prospects. Kentucky floundered for a couple of years, finally putting it together this year... when they got someone besides a 6-7 forward to play the post. Brickels remembers that and told me, “Just before you know it, they won when they got the big man so their forwards played where they belong.” His point may be well taken.

With the big man in the middle, the way should be opened for the guards to get better shots from the outside, as well as to play a tougher defense, knowing that behind them is a center big enough to intimidate just about any guard. Size certainly can make the difference. Personally, I think things look good; good enough to be highly optimistic about the basketball future, good enough to look for the return of the dominance of the Lefty Era.

Brickels said he felt his job would be somewhat simpler next year, having this wealth of talent to work with. He said he might just not count this past season on his record. And I reminded him of another coach, who was allowed by everyone else to discount that first season. The man was Vic Bubas, who...is probably one of the greatest college coaches in recent times. Everyone forgot his poor first season record after he put together a long string of 20-win seasons for Duke... all done with the help of people like Art Heyman, Jeff Mullins, Bob Verga, etc.

The Church of Conservation Invites You To Be An ORDAINED MINISTER And Acquire The Rank DOCTOR Of NATUREPEDICS

Our fast-growing church is actively seeking environment-conscious new ministers who believe what we believe: Man should exist in harmony with nature. We are a non-structured faith, undenominational, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Benefits for ministers are:
1. Car Emblem and Pocket ID.
2. Reduced rates from many hotels, motels, restaurants, car rental agencies, etc. Our directory lists over 1,000 prestige establishments extending an automatic cash discount.
3. Perform marriages, baptisms, funerals, and all other ministerial functions.
4. Start your own church and apply for exemption from property and other taxes.

Enclose a free-will donation for the minister's credentials and pocket license. Your ordination is recognized in all 50 states and most foreign countries. Church of Conservation, Box 375, Mary Esther, Florida 32569.

Like the man says, if you are going to expect a miracle, you might as well look for a big one. Optimistically speaking, it could be well on the way.

The Cats managed to rack up only five hits the entire day. In the bottom of the sixth inning, however, the Wildcats managed to score two runs to put Davidson out in front by one. Third baseman Dale Horner managed to get to first base on a catcher’s error. Outfielder Mitch Stone then singled to force Horner out at second. Next, Stone stole second base. Senior shortstop Gary Pomeroy came through with a clutch double to put Stone on third. Then reliable George Weicker flew out to the outfield but it was enough to score Stone from third. Catcher Mark Rodgeman then smacked a shot to bring Pomeroy in from third. Things looked good until the top of the seventh inning when The Bears came back to tie the game up at 2-2. The game was scoreless until the bottom of the twelfth inning. Outfielder Billy Lynn procured a walk to first as the Bear pitcher Sloan made one of his few mistakes of the day. Lynn, who is one of the fastest and most able of the Wildcat baserunners, stole second. Then Sophomore Jim Yearwood hit an infield out to advance Lynn to third. At this point, Dale Horner knocked a hard shot to centerfield to score Lynn and win the game for the Cats.

“I was pleased with the win over Lenoir-Rhyne especially after losing such a close game to them earlier in the season,” commented first-year coach Junior Wade. The Cats wound up the regular season with a very respectable 21-15 record and a second place in the Southern Conference. Commented Wade, “We are going to take it easy for a while and we will know Monday if we are going to get an NCAA tournament bid.”

INTRODUCING The Endless Feast

Imagine all the Prime Ribs you can eat and all the cold foamy beer you can drink and all the crisp green salad you can make and all the piping hot French bread you can butter. Served with baked Idaho potato, coffee or tea $6.95

STEAK PUB 3637 South Boulevard LIMITED 523-9678

All major credit cards accepted
Open for lunch Monday-Friday 11:30 A.M.
Open for dinner Monday-Sunday 4:30 P.M.

Present this coupon at Steak Pub Limited for $1.00 off your dinner check.

Name
School

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
Fred Zinnemann’s film of
DAY OF THE JACKAL
Friday, May 9
8 & 10:30 P.M.
Seniors free with I.D.
$1.00