the davidsonian
November 7, 1975

Dribbler: Paul Andrews wards off a defender in a recent soccer game. 1-10-1 record
-Pete Goodman

Double forfeit marks IMAC team apathy

Intramural Action
By TOM BLACKWOOD

The playoffs are getting ever nearer in the bizarre world of flickerball, the term drags ever onward aboard this oblivion
express, and the interest of all (well, maybe of these reporters) is turning to basketball. But we'll feature the completed
3-on-3 b-ball tourney next week. So now to the endless stream of sub-consciousness.

In a very unimportant contest, 3rd Richardson (3-3) defeated their cross-campus rivals 3rd Cannon (1-4) by the unimpressive score of
19-13.

Booters close out season
By DAVE WILEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson soccer team closed out its season this past weekend by dropping a 2-1 overtime decision at Emory. The
loss makes the team’s record 1-10-1.

The Cats played a strong first half against Emory. Wildcat wing Billy Hawk took a pass and beat the defense
downfield to score ten minutes into the game. “Billy just outran them,” said teammate Phil Barringer. “He did a great
job beating them for the breakaway.” The score was still 1-0 at the half. The Cats had outplayed Emory, but
had had no other good opportunities to score.

In the second half the momentum swung toward Emory.

“We smeared them in the first half,” said tri-captain Bill Vaughan, “but in the second half they took control of
the midfield area.” Coach Chip Stone did not think the shift was due to a let down on the part
of the Cats. “They just played much better than they did in the first half,” he said.

Davidson did manage to hold Emory off until there were only eight minutes remaining in the game, but “it was
just a matter of time,” according to Stone. The goal came when an Emory forward took a lead pass and
booted it in. There was no further scoring in regulation time. Emory scored in the first of two overtime periods,
and the Wildcats could not mount a serious attack.

The defeat ended a very frustrating season for Davidson soccer. “We were involved in ten very close games,” said Stone,
“but we could only manage to win one and tie one. I was satisfied with the effort the team gave
all season,” he added. “I know it was difficult to keep the spirit up at times.”

Several starters saw their Davidson careers come to a close. Tommy Blackwood, Billy Hawk, Bill Vaughan, and Joe Duncan all
saw their last action against Emory. “We’ll have to do some recruiting, for sure,” said Stone.ele e a ese es.
Not much more can be said of freshman teams. But by the way the gym is packed night after night
with avid freshman b-ballers, we're sure there will be a big improvement by all the first-year squads this winter. Also,
that day there was an important contest for all those who don’t like twirps. SAE (4-1) cleaned the clock of
the Bongs (also 4-1), 24-6. We’re not saying that the SAE’s aren’t twirps in their own respect, we're just trying
to be nice to Tim Hose. Further trivialities found Dingo (1-5) forfeiting to Chocolate Speedway (3-2) and the Warts of
1st Richardson (1-4) forfeiting to IFT (4-1). Lately, there seems to be a rash of forfeits. All we can say
is few things are more odious. In games which involved touchdowns and neat stuff like that, 4th Richardson (5-1) put
fraternities to shame by trouncing PDT#3 (4-1), 36-19. The Gnads (3-2) also got back to their winning ways by exposing
their best -uh- plays to PIKA (3-3), 14-0. Yet in the epitome of apathy, Etc. (3-5) and Nazgut (0-7) double
forfeited to each other as the lonely refs ran off to watch the girls play. Speaking of which, the supposed
“let’s play for fun” Joe’s Banana threw up a facade of looseness and several slimy (but several excellent) passes to
beat hard-hitting IFT (4-2), 39-14. Meanwhile, their proteges the SPE’s (5-1) have had an obnoxious week of victories. One was
over 3rd Cannon (1-5), 42-0, while the other was against the T.J. Pecotackless Kerwood Derbies (1-3), 60-25. Oh, well, so
much for justice. Barely scarred SAE liquidated the Whizz Kids, 46-12. The contest flowed smoothly for the E’s and it
reminded us of the bed-wetting antics of our very own Hose. Faceless Emanon outraced Chocolate Speedway in a literally breathless
encounter, 18-12. Both teams should be congratulated for showing up even though its outcome would have no consequences. Another yawner,
the Waterpipes out-nastied the cruel Kerwood Derbies. Several fights broke out over the eligibility of the Prong’s secret weapon, Bogie.
Standout Alan Duncan complained of the speedy players’ unorthodox and painful tagging. Oh, and the Dungeon Demons beat PDT#2, 40-7.
Now to the juicy part. Sixth Watts out flicked the Sty, 12-6, on a tasteless, last-second move by Ann Savory
in the 1st half. We should remind you girls that the purpose of the game, and possibly life also, is
to score. 3rd Little followed suit and squirmed past 3rd Watts, 7-0. We are afraid to comment on this game
for we do not wish to apologize to anyone anymore. The tired Harlem Shufflers showed the strain of their southern
sojourn and refused to give 1st Watts any satisfaction as they forfeited. Their second mistake was showing up for the
Sty and losing to these wallowing hustlers 12-6. All is not lost though, as the unpredictable Zoo loosed their awesome
talent and scored over and over again against 3rd Watts. All coeds should be proud of these aggressive players for
they show great promise of big things to come. We’re only sorry that it takes them at least two years
to learn how. All the girls’ teams agreed that Bruce Kemp has done an excellent job as a fairly steady
referee.

LIFE/WORK PLANNING FOR SENIORS
INFORMATION & REGISTRATION
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 12 AT 10 AM
MORRISON ROOM UNION
