December 5, 1975

The Davidsonian

Davidson Y demands vibrant leadership

An unfortunate by-product of the disorganization that has been strangling the Davidson YM/YWCA this year is buck-passing. An unwillingness to take responsibility for the current state of the Y pervades not only the student body at large, but also the elected office members of the Y cabinet. The cabinet meetings this year have been described as “informal” and “disorganized.” One prominent officer has attended no more than one meeting all year. Another officer describes the meeting situation as “where everyone stands around waiting for someone to tell him what to do, but no one ever says to do anything.”

Cutting a low profile

In the past year, the Y has cut the lowest profile in its history in the Davidson community. The Davidson citizenry can hardly be expected to foster an image of the Y as the major vehicle of Christian outreach in the community if the Y leaders fail to project that image. The problems facing the Y have not appeared as suddenly as may first appear. For the past four years, members have experienced decreasing contact with other board members. The cabinet members have become preoccupied with their individual programs such as STEP, Boy Scouts, or the Ada Jenkins recreation program, and less aware of the total Y program. In farming students out to community programs, the Y has failed to maintain an identity of its own. And without that identity, it has become extremely difficult to attract volunteers to work in community programs or even to raise funds.

Establishing an identity

We look to the present cabinet and the officers to be elected next week to establish a strong identity for the Y. We feel a strong platform for the Y would include a highly-publicized series of discussions, many with outside speakers leading, to examine the social and religious issues facing a community striving for spirituality. Another important goal includes making better use of the Depot, establishing the town youth coffee house which has been in a two-year planning stage. In addition, better coordination of the present service programs, including a strong recruiting drive for student volunteers and active publicity, would begin to put the Y back in the minds of Davidson citizens as a vibrant force in building community at Davidson within a Christian context.

“The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in the image.” —Kenneth Boulding

Editor: 
Business Manager: Larry Mimms
Managing Editors: Gordon Widenhouse
Executive Editor: 
Senior News Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Advertising Manager: 

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C., 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

Letters to the Editor

Debaters offer Oliver tourney or Nairobi

To the Editor:

As a Davidson coed and as a human being with some idea of justice, I resent the snide remarks in Hilton Oliver’s letter to the Editor Nov. 14. It was a prime example of the insane dehumanization which women have to struggle against, as described by Cathy Landis in the same issue. If Oliver needs an outlet for his aggressions, I suggest he try wrestling or debating rather than making fun of his fellow men or women. If he tried debating he would discover that far from talking “without sayinganything,” good forensics demands a combination of organized facts, quick and incisive thinking, and a command of the English language. He might learn not to use over-generalization based on false premises, the substance of his letter. I am offended by his spitefulness towards those who are friendly even more than by his ridicule of women and debaters. Thank goodness for people who have a kind and cheerful greeting for one another, even if it is in the library. To my knowledge, the verbal communication that takes place in the library is not loud or prolonged. In fact, Oliver’s complaint is the only one I have ever heard, so that I tend to believe he is hypersensitive either to noise or to goodwill. Perhaps he would be happier in Nairobi.

Joyce Stahmann '78
Davidson College

To the Editor:

An open letter from the Davidson debate team to Hilton Oliver. Having been forewarned of Hilton Oliver’s slanderous attacks on Davidson coeds, and Davidson debate in particular, we challenge Mr. Oliver to a public debate on the resolution: that Davidson College should return to its all-male status. We presume that Mr. Oliver would wish to speak for the affirmative side of the question. We will be represented by Debate Team Captain Gordon Widenhouse. If Mr. Oliver does not acquiesce to this public confrontation, every member of the college community can safely assume that he retracts all slanderous remarks which he has made concerning Davidson coeds, and by inference, agrees that Davidson is a better place because of its women. So now, Mr. Oliver, you have your chance. Accept this debate as a public platform from which to express your remarkably original opinions. Or admit to all that everything you have said is unfounded, setting Davidson women at ease, by removing the heavy sword of this approbation which presently hangs over their heads. If Mr. Oliver agrees, this public debate will take place in Eu Hall after the Thanksgiving break, at a time mutually acceptable to both parties.

The Debate Team
Davidson College

Study carrels stimulate student ‘territoriality’

To the Editor:

There is not a one-to-one ratio of students to library study carrels or desk spaces. More carrels or desk space may in fact be physically impossible in the library, but even so students often find themselves in need of a place to study. For some upperclassmen, mostly juniors and seniors, there are assigned carrels where they can leave books and papers and have a virtual guarantee of available study space. Now for the rest of the student body, there remains a limited quantity of unassigned carrels, and these are supposedly open to free use by any student. However, many students claim these open carrels as their own (evidenced by their books left on the shelf, or a name sticker on the side), even though these carrels are unassigned. Case in point: Tonight I finally found an unassigned carrel with only a few papers on the shelf, with no sign of active study. It was 6:50, and I sat down and studied until 8:10, when, lo and behold, who should appear but the owner of the carrel, proclaiming his territoriality, demanding that I leave. His reasons were obvious: 1) he had studied in that unassigned carrel since the beginning of the year, 2) his papers were in the carrel (he also had a name sticker), and, most important of all, 3) he was there and needed to study in his carrel. Being a gentleman, and not wishing to argue my position with one so eager for truth and knowledge, I left. But can this type of inconsiderate action be allowed to continue in regard to the unassigned carrels?

John B. Parkerson, Jr.
Davidson College