December 5, 1975

The Davidsonian

Gym conflicts frustrate students

By DAVID S. RICHARDSON
Staff Writer

Once again we must raise the question of administrative jurisdiction at Davidson College. This time we stumble onto the key
to the locked doors of everybody’s hearts: the athletic department. We have discovered this much here at Davidson: the gymnasium,
that vortex of student activity, offers some pretty damn good options to the amateur athlete, the frustrated adolescent, the bored
scholar-in-the-making whittling away the hours of four years of his/her life. The swimming pool, handball courts, weight-lifting room—these are all
nice liberal arts college luxuries that sooner or later help you to get by, to forget, even to breathe again.

But where is the real essence of the gymnasium, the treasure of the student body, the gem of the faculty,
the battleground of the athletic administration? Why, the basketball court, of course. Where else? Every year that B-ball court absorbs
the beat of more shoes, the cries of more jocks, and the sweat of more heroes than any other rectangular
surface at this school. The de facto Davidson graduate would be a fool not to say that there, somewhere between
the gym and Chambers, lies the meaning of four years of existence. And he would be a hypocrite not to
confess that had he steered his own way, a larger part of those years would have slipped by beneath the
caged lights of the first building.

Since the powers of Chambers exercise such control in regulating the hours of a student’s life, you would think that
the facilities of the gymnasium—and the B-ball court in particular—would be made readily available to fit the open (“free”) hours
of our days and nights. In many respects this is the case, conforming to reason: e.g., pool hours (if you
can swim), weight-room hours (if you can find the mysterious place), handball court hours. Yet I sometimes wonder right about
this time in the year—and I’m not alone—just how available that coveted artificial floor—the B-ball court—really is to us.

Of course, there are conflicting interests involved, especially in the bleak winter months of Davidson. For the sake of argument,
let’s narrow them down to this: administration-controlled interests—J.V. and Varsity Basketball, wrestling matches, P.E. classes; and non-administration-controlled interests—IMAC ball games,
IMAC volleyball, Girls’ Basketball, and squeezed-in minutes of basketball for the independent among us. That’s an awful lot of sweaty
bodies in 24 hours. Who’s going to direct all this traffic? Ideally: the students, who represent the majority of interest.
Realistically: the athletic administration, who owns the keys. Now, see the conflict?

There are those times in the night when the IMAC player, relieved of library duty, will shuffle down to the
gym only to find that the Varsity team has scheduled night practice. Doors closed. And there are those even more
frustrating times when the girls' basketball team will show up for practice, only to find 1) no floor space, 2)
no basketballs, or 3) no official coach. Doors locked.

All preceding conjecture leads to this: the athletic administration may call the traffic signals in the gymnasium; but, does it
do so in the interests of semi-professional varsity attractions? Just how much attention does the student receive when the gym
schedules are worked out, when IMAC time is allotted, when girls’ basketball needs B-balls and uniforms? And when does administrative
concern end and personal ego take over?

Don’t get me wrong. I’m not hurling barbs—not just yet. I am, however, suggesting that these questions be held up
to the light now, before this term, with all of its potential headaches, sets in for good—or bad. Schedules have
to be worked out over there in the gym offices. That will take time and, hopefully, recognition of student interests.
In the meantime—which is far more important—a little cooperation down there would ease a lot of tension before those winter
storms have a chance to brew.

Whose gymnasium is it? We may find out sooner than expected. There is enough conflict in convincing Chambers that such
an outrageous thing...as student identity does exist. Let’s hope this peculiar administrative loss of hearing doesn’t spread into the offices,
floors, and closed doors of Johnston Gymnasium.
- Laura Moses

Logic for Living recalls UNC in 20’s

Over Thanksgiving vacation, I was rummaging through the bookcase in search of a mind-expanding volume. It was there that I
found Logic for Living, wedged between five books on how to raise dogs, which might explain the urge to roll
over and play dead which overpowers me from time to time. Actually, Logic for Living is not at all for
the muddle-minded, but more for people with stout boots who can tramp through the truly amazing display of purple prose
which begins and ends the lectures of Henry Horace Williams at Chapel Hill, from 1921-1922.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night
will ordinarily be printed that week.

Thomas Wolfe called Williams the “Hegel of the cotton patch,” others, “the gadfly of Chapel Hill,” and Jane Ross Hammer,
the editor of this monstrosity and perpetrator of the purple prose, undertook the task of collating his lectures “because of
his ineptness as a writer.” Ms. Ross herself lives in a glass house, her style lush enough to make Eric
Segal blush. In fact, if the book ever fell into Phyllis Schlafly’s hand, it could no doubt defeat the ERA
in thirty minutes.

Ross attempts to enact what she calls a “classroom drama,” with each of Williams’ lectures prefaced by her unbridled enthusiasm,
and bounded by multitudinous questions which the wise professor has brought to her mind. The drama begins when she first
reaches Chapel Hill. “My heart was beating faster than usual, for I knew adventure awaited at the end of the
gleaming white sand path. My surroundings were strange—Chapel Hill, I was told, was the name of the place. It was
a lovely old Southern town...where men grew, feasting upon beauty, goodness, and truth that seemed almost tangible. The life-renewing blood
of the South pulsed from this, our state university.” Jane obviously didn’t date Davidson men.

With a flair for the realistic, Williams gobbles through his lectures with discernible delusions of grandeur coming forth. He claims,
“Wherever in North Carolina you find one of my boys he is a leader.” He discovers humility when after twelve
years (symbolism perhaps?) of trying to prove God was a Methodist, he gave up the ghost. (Actually He’s Presbyterian.)

With a flair for the realistic, or perhaps the surrealistic, Hammer faithfully records classroom discussion and one watches the class
forming dynamic circles, in which they turn with force, grappling with reality, life, and relation. The names in the dialogues
are the actual names of the members of the class of 1921-1922, starring such brilliant repartee as “Brown: ‘Yes sir,
I see.’” Eat your heart out Socrates.

But stylistic questions aside, the most intriguing point raised by Logic for Living is the relationship between Hammer and Williams.
Hammer lies awake at night puzzling over Williams’ lectures (which is understandable), tossing, moaning, and no doubt driving her roommate
crazy. She rises with the first glint of the sun and rushes to be in class early to wonder with
the other students what pearls Williams will throw before their hooves today, and to watch his silent profile (his head
being turned toward the towering trees outside the window). How could she get through her freshman year at that rate,
moaning at night, chomping in the morning, and ruminating in the afternoon? Only at Chapel Hill, right guys?

The book ends with a rousing Williams quote: “The individual studies in order to know; he acts; and he falls
in love with beauty.” No mention of what happened to Jane Ross Hammer—I hope it’s not too crude to presume
that she got an A. As for me, I quietly put Logic for Living back with the dogs and decided
to continue muddling through on my own, until I get the time to write my rebuttal. Living for the Addled.
