September 19, 1975

-Leon Venable

LOST AT SEA: The annual regatta at Lake Norman was the last event in Freshman Orientation Week.

Orientation Week scores success

By TONY SNOW
Staff Writer

There are some things that are unavoidable in the freshman’s life. The first of these is orientation.

Freshman orientation began for 370 new students September 6.

We all have memories of the day we came to school to live. Emotional or unemotional goodbyes...fear...joy at being on
our own...or whatever. Probably the strongest, most pervasive feeling was one of confusion.

Confusion and chaos, in fact, ruled the first few days of life at Davidson for the new students.

Some began orientation by trying to find their roommates, others dragged foot lockers, stereos, or posters. At one point, no
less than 15 cars were parked illegally in front of Richardson dorm, including one 10-ton van bearing Garden State license
plates.

The van caused a great upset at Davidson’s precinct two as the police tried to haul the awesome vehicle away
with a wrecker only half its size. The van’s owner showed up in time to avert the crisis.

Disorganization again took over at the president's reception Saturday night. The reception was moved from the president’s house to Cunningham
Fine Arts Center and back again three times, owing to intermittent rain.

Activities for the freshmen continued throughout the orientation week, succeeding in being interesting enough to keep students' minds away from
home and informative enough to be important. Many upperclassmen saw fit to return in time to enjoy some of the
fun.

A talent show was held in Love Auditorium. This year’s talent was assisted by Marc Menchel in the role of
‘Johnny’ (Carson) and assistant director of the union Russ Kushigan as ‘Ed’. The talent ranged from skits involving entire floors
in a reenactment of a hall meeting about sex to some really fine music played on classical guitar.

The people hunt was one event designed to be fun and informative. Students ran among themselves trying to match people
with information about them gleaned from applications. Success ranged from fourth Richardson’s winning tally of 22 correct answers to a
dismal seven.

The cake race proved to be an interesting activity, pitting all the freshmen against each other and a clock on
a one-mile cross-country type run. Cakes were given to the top 46 men and top 10 women.

Doug Horn, who won the race, established a new record for the 1.7-mile course. Horn ran the distance in 8:33.8
minutes, beating Pete Ashcraft’s record of 8:45.5 set in 1952. The second-place finisher this year also went under the time
of the old record, running an 8:34.

For the girls, first-place finisher Paula Kadison destroyed the old female record. Her time of 11:43.4 was a full minute
and 54 seconds better than the previous best by Margaret Hunter.

The week of orientation ended with the day at the lake campus. The annual freshman hall regatta was the highlight
of the day, which included an egg toss, swimming, and relay races.

The regatta was the sole property of first Richardson. Their entry beat all of the others by fifty yards. One
winner makes many losers, and there were halls who felt as if they were racing in the Bermuda Triangle.

The egg toss, a competition between hall counselors, was captured by the duo of Gary Barnes and Lee Grogan.

The orientation week turned out to be a success. New students became acquainted with their school and with each other.
They had fun and earned a sense of belonging in Davidson.

PEREGRINE HOUSE

DELI FOODS OF ALL KINDS
SANDWICHES: HOAGIES - BAGELS
CHEESE CAKE - DANNON YOGURT

COMPLETE LINE OF BEER & WINES
WINE BY LITER
BEER BY PITCHER OR GLASS

Freshman orientation ’75

Opticians
Fast & Accurate Service

Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician

ePrescriptions Filled
eGlasses Repaired
eGlasses Adjusted
eSunglasses

206 N. Main
Ph. 663-3942
Mooresville

MON. - WED.
11:00 A.M. - 11:00 P.M.
THU. - SAT.
12:00 NOON - 10:00 P.M.
