The Davidsonian

Kill the man with the ball

Mark Armstrong (left) body checks Bob Turnage during practice with Davidson College’s lacrosse team.

April 3, 1975

Terry Howard gets off bench as varied odds handed down

Thank you Terry Howard wherever you are today, if you haven’t committed suicide yet. People reading this are probably wondering
who in the hell is Terry Howard? How soon they forget stars.

Terry Howard is hard to miss on Louisville’s bench: Being the only white on the squad, all Terry did was
to miss a free throw that cost Louisville the game with UCLA. He definitely snatched defeat out of the jaws
of victory...

Oh come on, Terry, cheer up; it’s only the national championship. Don’t worry, you'll have another chance someday to visit
the championship, although I’ve heard tickets are hard to find.

Granted, Terry was thrown under an inescapable spell by the greatest jinxster of all time, Curt Gowdy, who said “UCLA
definitely fouled the wrong guy there in Terry Howard. Terry has made 28 consecutive free throws and is shooting 100%
at the line this year.”

Brick-gark, as Terry Howard goes into the Gark Hall of Fame along with other notables such as Jim Marshall, Willie
Davis, and Mike Andrews.

Once again I say thank you,

My pre-season baseball predictions have survived the usual onslaught by Davidson’s experts. I thought before certain players comeback or retire,
I ought to name my over-rated all pro Baseball Team: Wilbur Wood, Earl Williams, Joe Torre, Ted Sizemore, Chris Spier,
Buddy Bell, Willie Horton, Greg Luzinski, and Rusty Staub.

(This last name takes the cake as the Phillies are serious about giving up Wayne Twitchell and Eddie Watt for
the Galloping Gourmet.)

As baseball starts and all other sports come to an end, I may as well give the Freek’s favorites in
the upcoming spring classics. Pro Hockey sees all of the following as legitimate contenders for the Cup: Philadelphia, Boston, Montreal,
and Buffalo.

Pro Basketball sees Boston emerging over any and all opponents. In the Masters, Jack Nicklaus and Johnny Miller should battle
for the green coat all the way. Longshots here are Hale Irwin, John Mahaffey, Tom Kite, and Bruce Crampton.

An early Kentucky Derby look sees Prince Thou Art as a strong challenge to upset Secretariat-compared Foolish Pleasure. If Baeza
rides, I like the Prince coming on strong in the stretch.

LATE BULLETIN

Longshot Ken “Salizar” Schmader, with a beautiful “chula” off the lower Cannon wall, has narrowly won the $25,000 Belk Handicap
in Frisbee-Jai-Lai over Rob “Joie” Canning. Joie, on match point, attempted a “cordata” off the Watts wall, but failed as
the crowd of 72,307 cheered for Salizar’s victory, the first in 13 years.

All outstanding pari-mutual tickets may be cashed at windows one and two. Off-track handle is subject to 5% state tax.
I wonder how many winning tickets Mr. Slagle had?

Odds-on favorite Kirk “Rufino” Combe couldn’t get his game together, although he slipped into third on a nice “rebound” off
the bushes. Here are the official tote results:

WIN PLACE SHOW
Salizar 51.60 12.40 7.80
Rais 4.80

The quinella combination (1-3) pays $241.20
The trifecta combination (3-1-4) pays $7,283.60

The Davidsonian is looking for students to solicit advertising. All that is needed is a free afternoon each week, and
then watch the commissions roll in.

The best things in life are free, but a little of the green can’t hurt. Apply in The Davidsonian office,
upstairs in the Union.
