Twelve The Davidsonian January 16, 1975

The Davidsonian SPORTS

Chuck Kennon, Sports Editor
Frank Stiefel, Assistant Sports Editor

Basketball at this school has been living its own lie for several years, and the truth is now catching up fast. For a decade Davidson was a powerhouse. It was virtually the only claim to fame for the school west of the Appalachians. A myth can be self-comforting and reality becomes harder and harder to face. After five years of living on sheer reputation, the basketball program is now catching up with the biggies, and the administration has become trapped.

Building a successful program takes time and money. The latter can be obtained if there is sufficient will, but the former is hard to buy. Several years of losing (or break-even at best) records will not do too much to make this school attractive to recruits. There is talk of climbing back to the lofty ranks in the nation once more. But this is a patent impossibility if the present suicidal schedule is maintained. It does the future little good when present teams begin to compile 3-9 records for the sake of glamour and for the greater glory of the name of Davidson College.

At the rate the school is going, the Public Relations department will soon be forced to explain a string of losing seasons. If they are finding it difficult to inspire confidence in the future now, I dare say that it will be even rougher to come up with the bread a few years hence. What we once again seem to have here is a problem of priorities. The school schedules big-name opponents to run our team and record ragged with style, and at the same time it laments the fact that the program is slowly running out of steam. It is a strange ritual of biting the hand that feeds. No one loves a loser.

'Catttes Down Two Opponents, Raise Season Record To 4-1

By DAVE KITCHEN and CLIFF GARDINER
Staff Writers

Davidson’s women’s basketball has taken two quick victories since returning from the Christmas break, thereby stretching its winning streak to four. Augusta met defeat in Johnston Gym Jan. 10, as did visiting Converse Jan. 14. The Wildcattes featured an expanded scoring attack as two new scorers emerged. In the 66-58 defeat of Augusta College, sophomore forward Nancy Matheny regained her last year’s scoring prowess, missing only 2 of 9 field goal attempts. Junior guard Renee Soos supported consistently high-scoring Donna Sherrill with a game-high 17 points in the 69-61 win over Converse. Coaches Joe Duncan, Charlie Slagle, and Ken Schmader un-

Surging Forth

Beth Tanner drives between two flat-footed Augusta College foes. The Davidson 'Cattes defeated Augusta College 66-58.

‘Hoop-La’ Suffers Rat Wrath As Sports Loses To Notebooks

By BOB MILKS

As I sat watching the Buckets game, it occurred to me that there were many more empty seats than there had been when I had begun serving my sentence in Kingdom Come three years before. I realized with a feeling of horror that even more of my colleagues than usual were destroying themselves in the self-deluding search for that elusive and terrible drug GeePeeA. The drug-seekers almost fell prey to the monstrous great worm Librarious that ravaged Kingdom Come. The victims of the sting from its venomous tail were paralyzed into a condition of total helplessness; they contributed nothing to and gained little from Kingdom Come but sat around in a trance known medically as Academia Degeneratis. The victims of Librarious had always been around, but now it seemed that many of those at the game had succumbed to their own brand of lethargy. Few of those seated behind my second row could be bothered to stand up and cheer, some going so far as to yell at us, “Down in front!” Puzzled, I turned and asked the reason for their obvious lack of enthusiasm. “Well, you know how it is,” replied the first. “I’ve got toStay cool to keep up my image, and you sure don’t look cool jumping up and down screaming. What would all my cool friends think if they saw me acting like that?”

“They’re lucky this game is on Saturday night instead of during the week,” another said. “I’m a scholar and I don’t have time on weeknights for such trivial foolishness; I’m concerned with the problems of mankind.

“And on the infrequent occasions when I can make it to a game it won’t do for me to get so upset over such an unimportant event. What meaning will it have two days from now? I’ve got my dignity to maintain; there’s no way I’m going to make an arse out of myself for anything so silly.”

“What about the players and their efforts?”

“What do I care about the players—I’ve got myself to worry about.”

“They haven’t been winning anyway,” said yet another. “If they’re not even going to win, why should I bother to cheer?”

“Well, it’s been a rough schedule.”

“I don’t care. I’m hard to please, and I’m not going to lend my support to anyone unless they show they deserve it. It’s too much trouble to cheer unless we’re ahead. I’m only going to cheer for a winner.”

“Maybe they need your support to help build a winner.”

“They’re going to have to win before they get my support. I may stop coming to games; I’ve got better things to do, like watching TV reruns.”

I turned back to the game, mentally comparing the cheering ghosts of previous seasons to the present lackluster crowd. Throughout the game the cry, “Down in front!” floated through the air behind me. Down in front? To hell with those in back.

(Photo by Pete Goodman)

...veiled a new defensive machine which forced the Augusta team into 25 turnovers. Slagle credited this defense with being a significant factor in the two victories.

Despite the victory over Converse, Duncan was quick to remark on the sloppiness of Davidson’s play. He attributed the Wildcats’ abundance of turnovers partially to the fact that the Converse game came back-to-back to the win over Augusta. Due to the proximity of the two games, he said, the team “just really wasn’t ready for this one. But they came through; they’re good athletes.”

Duncan expressed confidence in his players’ competitive attitude. “They’re starting to realize they’re good basketball players, not just good girls’ basketball players.” He noted as well the close-knit relationship among the players off the court. “About eight of them rode in together to the (men’s varsity) game the other night, and I don’t think you’re going to find that sort of thing on many teams.”

Slagle forecasted that upcoming contests with N.C. State, Wake Forest, and South Carolina will probably be rugged ones. Anderson College, which Slagle considers possibly Davidson’s toughest foe all season, will enjoy the home court advantage against the ‘Cats Jan. 17. Davidson’s next home game is against N.C. State Jan. 20.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS: Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer—North Carolina’s nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. 28th season. Camps feature sailing, motorboating and seamanship plus all usual camping activities (including skin diving and golf course at Sea Gull and horseback riding at Seafarer). Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches and teachers who are LOOKING FOR MORE than ‘just another summer job’. Openings for NURSES (RN). June 10-August 22. We seek highly qualified (ability to instruct in one phase of camp’s program), dedicated and enthusiastic staff members with exemplary character and offer good salaries, room and board, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of a letter of application which should include a brief resume of training and experience in area(s) of camp program in which you are best qualified to instruct. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Camp Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

Friday, Jan. 17
8:00 & 10:30 P.M.
Steel Yard Blues
DC POP FILMS PRESENTS
Love $1.00

HATTIE’S
Subs—Pizzas—Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers—Cold Draught
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30
HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.