Twelve The Davidsonian January 23, 1975

Senate Report Meetze Praised By Resolution For Action During Belk Flood

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD Staff Writer

A discussion concerning Slater Food Service, an overview of the winter agenda, and reports on the student Bill of Rights and the housing situation in Davidson were the major topics of last Tuesday night’s Senate meeting. Also, the Senate unanimously adopted a resolution commending Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze and three others for coming to the rescue of the dormitory basements during the recent floodings.

SGA President John Munce called for a committee to work with Slater Food Service Manager Ron Scott. Scott has made a request for student input into decisions ranging from changes in food prices to complaints about the quality of food. Munce, who had met earlier with Scott and Business Manager Robert Currie, explained a projected $35 increase in food service. The increased rate will become effective in the fall term next year, and changes in the food service will accompany it. Richard and Bailey houses will serve a main food fare, but without steaks. Rusk house will be closed, and a snack bar in the Grey Union will serve a combination of sandwiches, hot dogs, hamburgers, and the like. Students will be able to use meal tickets in the snack bar from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., but from 8 to 12 p.m. must pay cash.

Senate members raised questions about the proposed changes in the Slater Food Service; they expressed concern especially over the mandatory cash payment after 7 p.m. Senators Bo Baskin and Patti Phillips agreed to explore the questions raised and report to the Senate.

The winter agenda covers a broad variety of topics from campus planning to a resource center. At Tuesday’s meeting, Munce briefly outlined the agenda and asked the senators to be thinking about what areas they want to work in. Highlights of the agenda include the following:

(1) An investigation of the college’s compliance with health and safety regulations in dormitories and in the Martin Chemistry Building.
(2) Continued efforts toward some kind of campus planning, particularly in relation to new housing for students, improved science facilities, an art gallery, and new Patterson Court houses.
(3) Guidance and counseling including advisor training, experiential learning programs, and psychological counseling.
(4) An investigation of the infirmary’s purpose and facilities, and coordination with a crisis line.
(5) An investigation in poss-

College Repairs Lift In Effort To Relieve

By MARK WILENSKY Managing Editor

Replacement of four defective valves in the college sewage lift station was begun on Wednesday afternoon. The work is expected to be completed today, and the station should be working at full capacity on Friday morning. Raw sewage has been pouring directly from college drains into the creek behind the tennis courts since January 10. On that day Professor of Biology David C. Grant noted at 11:51 a.m. the discharge from the overflow pipe. “There is no way of knowing when the flow began; but it has run steadily since that time.” On that same day, Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr. told a reporter that the system “malfunctions for such short periods that it wouldn’t be feasible to build a back-up system. It happens only a day or two a year.” Grant agreed that a secondary system was probably impractical, but asserted that a new system would have to be developed if the college was to expand at all.

Malfunctioning were four valves that are supposed to open and close during the process of pumping the sewage uphill toward the town treatment plant. The valves purportedly cost about $200 each. According to sources inthe Physical Plant Office, the pumps and drain are checked daily. It is possible for the pumps to be running while the sewage pours out the drain. The drain runoff is the only sure way to detect malfunctioning. The same valves replaced this week were not working properly at the beginning of the summer. Physical Plant

The old valves were going bad "six months ago," the Physical Plant source said. The new valves were "picked up in Charlotte" by Ruben MacIntosh, a college employee. Workers removed the valves and rebuilt them at that time. It is unclear when replacement valves were added.

The Good Neighbor.

The Red Cross will, after circulating among students and faculty later this year, be voted on a final time next October. Senator John Guthrie gave a report on the housing survey he and several other students conducted in Davidson recently. He also reported on meetings with the Davidson Town Council and with Davidson Mayor Tom Sadler. The Senate unanimously passed the following resolution of commendation:

Next Tuesday the Senate will appoint students to serve on the following committees: Library, Student Life, Public Lectures, Educational Policy, Guidance and Counseling, Governance, and International Study.

SGA President John Munce reported on the status of the Student By-laws and the Student Bill of Rights. The By-laws come up for a final vote when the Trustees meet in February and will go into effect in July. The Bill of Rights has been deferred to the Trustee Governance Committee and will be voted on a final time next October.

Senior John Scholer has resigned his post as senator, and the Senate will appoint a replacement for him next week. Senators Roger Brown and Susan Reid were absent from this week’s meeting.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS: Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer—North Carolina’s nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. 28th season. Camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship plus all usual camping activities (including skin diving and golf course at Sea Gull and horseback riding at Seafarer). Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who are LOOKING FOR MORE than "just another summer job." Openings for NURSES (RN). June 10-August 22. We seek highly qualified (ability to instruct in one phase of camp’s program), dedicated and enthusiastic staff members with exemplary character and offer good salaries, room and board, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of a letter of application which should include a brief resume of training and experience in area(s) of camp program in which you are best qualified to instruct. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Seagull/Camp Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

The Davidsonian is curious about what's happening inside the community, and special things inside your head. So we're starting a special center section, Inside Art, devoted to original poetry, short fiction, drawings, and photography by Davidson students and professors. Our first issue will be in a few weeks, and we're soliciting material now. Bring your stuff to The Davidsonian office upstairs in the Union, or give it to Lillian Gascoigne (L 211) or Bob Howell (R 303). Inside Art. It's all yours.