Jarrett Explores
A Review By ERNEST GLENN
Staff Writer

Keith Jarrett Albums:
“Birth” Atlantic 1972
“Gary Burton and Keith Jarrett” Atlantic 1971
“Solo Concerts” ECM 1973
“Ruta — Daitya” ECM 1973
“Fort Yahwuh” Impulse 1973

Keith Jarrett’s music exemplifies the diverse wealth of contemporary young jazz. His solo piano can sing like Chopin, Scriabin, or Burt Bacharach, while at its very best sounds like only Jarrett can. A three-record set, “Solo Piano Concerts” reveals Jarrett’s personal virtuosity as an improviser and executor of complex technical problems. His numerous other albums tell of his skill as a composer and member of a small combo.

Jarrett’s shortcomings include several faults of contemporary jazz as a whole: the ‘we've done it all, what next?’ void that is too often filled with purposeless instrumental wanderings or sell-outs to more popular styles of rock and soul. The best songs on Jarrett’s group albums are those with a steady rhythm and a relatively coherent melody—such as “De Drums” and “Still Life, Still Life”—pointing the way back to a more structured type of jazz.

“Fort Yahwuh” and “Gary Burton and Keith Jarrett” (Burton on vibes) are both very good albums which offer a selection of styles and techniques from all musicians. Dewey Redman provides a strong tenor sax on “Fort Yahwuh” and on “Birth,” another album. Charlie Haden, who has played with a number of jazz musicians including Ornette Coleman, is on the string bass. Some of the songs on these albums are cool, easy numbers, with good solos on sax, vibes, and piano. “Fortune Smiles” features Burton on vibes solo, as does “Grow Your Own.” Other songs, like “If The Misfits Wear It,” are freer and more experimental—looser with rhythm and melody, reminiscent of John Coltrane. But even in these songs, the beat is not as lost as it was in the sixties.

Jarrett himself plays some wild solos on the soprano sax on “Fort Yahwuh,” but they are temporary excursions from the form of the song. This adherence to form, however loose, is indicative of the trend in much of contemporary jazz—returning to music that is easier to listen to.

Alone, Jarrett says, is the best way for a musician to relate to his creation and to his audience. The collection of live performances (to small audiences in Europe) reveals Jarrett at both his strongest and weakest. In a solo performance, he cannot hide mistakes in the strength of the rest of the group. And he can also shine as a great individual performer. Most of these concerts are improvised, making the music even more remarkable in its complexity and flawless delivery. On a few occasions, it is too obvious that Jarrett is improvising: he will stick to repeating a pattern (ostinato) or chord until the listener is lost.

“Amarcord” is one of Federico Fellini’s better movies. While it is not so successful as “The Clowns,” nor so distinguished as “Variety Lights” and “8½,” it wears favorably next to “La Strada” and “Juliet of the Spirits,” and is decidedly superior to “Toby Dammit,” “Fellini Satyricon,” and “Fellini’s Roma.” (These, alas, are all the Fellini movies I’ve seen. If North Carolina may be called a movie-goer’s purgatory, then Charlotte, continuing the metaphor, is an absolute damnation.)

In “Amarcord,” Fellini and his editor of the last few years, Ruggero Mastroianni, abandon the loose, casual form they experimented with for the most part so unsuccessfully in “Fellini’s Roma,” and mold a precise mise-en-scène. Like “Fellini Satyricon” and “Fellini’s Roma,” “Amarcord” is unorganized and episodic. Within an episode, each shot seems to follow the preceding one for sound logical and emotional reasons, but the movie never comes together as a dramatic whole.

“Amarcord” flatly contradicts “Fellini Satyricon.” “Fellini Satyricon” is a black comedy, almost a camp comedy; Fellini intends to make a film that laps over the viewer, a film in which the viewer can lose himself, as in a gentle sea; but there is a vast difference between a film in which the director loses himself and one in which the viewer can lose himself. Despite all Mastroianni’s and Fellini’s exertions to conceal the fact, Fellini had no idea where he was going while shooting “Amarcord.” Fellini’s approach to filmmaking is to shoot a movie as though it were many separate movies and to try to discover order later in the editing room, where he works alongside the film’s official editor. In “8½,” a miracle of a film, Fellini and Leo Catozzo find their order with a vengeance; “Amarcord” has no real order, only apologies and excuses for lack of order.

Still, “Amarcord” comes as a relief after the aesthetic lying of “Fellini Satyricon,” where the director’s personality and the demands of the movie flatly contradict one another. “Amarcord,” a white comedy, a comedy in both senses of the word. “Amarcord” takes the comic vignette of Fellini’s schooldays at the opening of “Fellini’s Roma”—one of the best things about that movie—and bloats it out into a feature-length film. A couple of the same actors play teachers in both. Repetition and redevelopment are the lifeblood of art, but Fellini, I’m afraid, is mostly stagnating. He has always had a talent for comedy—the talent is not completely dead in parts even of “Toby Dammit” and “Fellini Satyricon.” There are some funny moments in “Amarcord,” as when Aurelio (Armando Brancia) tries to regain his dignity in front of the neighbors between spasms of shouting at his son. Large sections of the movie, however, are dull, and a few moments are painfully arch. In one of the dullest segments, a young boy dressed like Little Red Riding Hood walks through a...Dense fog on his way to school. Shadows of dead trees and wrecked ships loom beside the road. One of the shadows turns out to be a gentle bull, but the lad, not knowing it gentle, drops his mouth and edges carefully past, before running safely off to school. The scene illustrates clearly—all too clearly—the nature of Fellini’s directorial personality. He is a childlike man looking with nostalgia on the days of his youth. He makes cozy fairy tales based upon his memories and dreams. While he sometimes pretends to be ferocious, he is about as dangerous as an old grandmother playing bogeyman and laughing, “Boo!” He satirizes the excesses of the Catholic Church, but one has no doubt that he actually loves the excesses and is a devout Catholic himself. Many of the worst performances in his films are in the roles of nymphomaniacs and old men, for these are the people he least understands. (That Fellini’s last two films have been rated R is one more example of the literal-mindedness of our nation's censors.)

The scene of the boy walking to school is a cliched expression of Fellini’s poetic vision, and therefore a meaningless one. A few moments in “Amarcord” are more sublimely expressive—for example, a shot of a peacock flying through a snowy sky and another of sparrows pecking at a snow-covered ground in front of a small tree with large, bright apples. Fellini’s is a gaudy, Christmas-card art, but that is part of the wonder of it. Most of the performances in “Amarcord,” though fine, are hampered because Fellini does not always have a clear conception of the style he is searching for. Magali Noel, as Gradisca (Italian slang for a well-developed woman), finds a style that expresses “Amarcord” at its best. She overdresses in a theatrical way and walks with a sexless, graceful waddle. She is sweet, playful, and smiling, and she cries while thinking of her love life, while seeing the lights of a boat at night or while getting married, which she does at the end of the film.

One sequence is luminous with greatness, the hotel sequence, and it too is a memory. Even within the film’s present-tense, it takes place in memory. This sequence forms a direct line from the Princess’ memories of an ecclesiastical fashion show in “Fellini’s Roma” and the moment in “The Clowns” when the young Fellini wakes up before dawn and rushes to a balcony from which he sees a circus tent being raised. In Fellini’s movies, melancholy and sentimentality are virtues. If Fellini believes he has better things to do with his time than to make successful movies, as I suspect he must, then he and I have a belief in common.

By JOE MCMILLAN
NSO January 9, 1975

Driven to restless boredom. But this mistake is seldom made, and a possibly boring pattern is often amazingly set as background for flowing improvisations. And the music remains jazz. Jarrett can play in any style, but he always ends up giving his pieces a characteristically jazz sound, hinting into blues, or rag, or a number of modern jazz piano styles. On these solo records, the sensual beauty of the piano itself is as welcome to my over-electrified ears as the mastery of the instrument Jarrett provides. At times he can be heard humming along as he plays—like Glenn Gould, totally absorbed in the music. The personal communication between artist-improviser and audience is close, due to the inherent nature of jazz as partially spontaneous and use of as few electric and celluloid intermediaries as possible. Jarrett says he is waging an anti-electric music campaign. The solo performances are strong testament to this fact.

An album with particular interest in light of this statement is one of Jarrett’s latest releases, “Ruta & Daitya.” Featured on this record is the duo of Jarrett and Jack DeJohnette (on percussion). A few of the songs on this record, “Algeria,” and “Overture,” luckily the shorter ones, have Jarrett on the electric piano and organ. The songs come off little better than some of Herbie Hancock’s latest jazz-pop: Get back to the piano. Jarrett’s electric songs are interesting in their rhythmic play with the various beats produced by DeJohnette, but there is little beauty in the sounds percolating from the instruments. The album is beautifully saved by the other numbers, particularly the title song and “Sounds of Peru,” creative combinations of piano and drums. Here Jarrett adds another dimension to the versatility of the piano, its qualities as a percussion instrument. On certain songs, the piano will accompany DeJohnette as almost another drum, then veer into a melodious solo with the drums providing background. Jarrett also plays the flute on this album, again displaying his growing versatility with instruments other than the piano. “Ruta & Daitya” shows how innovative a musician can be on the instrument with which he is most skilled, as well as branching out into other areas of expression. And the record is not a sell-out to electricity to attract a larger listening audience.

Keith Jarrett is the pianist to watch in contemporary jazz. And this fact may partially account for his relative obscurity if compared to other young keyboard men like Herbie Hancock and Chick Corea, or even Keith Emerson. Jarrett’s music cannot be hyphenated with rock or pop. His music is classically jazz in its styles, forms, and freedoms. Modern jazz is founded on the intimacy between the performer, whether small combo or individual, and his audience. Jarrett’s group recordings obtain this feeling by their relaxed, easy style. And his solo performances are even stronger because of the instrument itself, and his own great talent with it.