the davidsonian

December 5, 1975

Governor reviews Davidson education

(Continued from page 2)

to bring into the Administration in Raleigh.”

In an interview conducted earlier this year at Davidson, the Governor remarked that his Davidson education helped to prepare him for his career in politics.

“Well, it’s hard to say about specific things. One thing I can look back at Davidson and see is that it taught me to have respect for other people. And it taught me to try to reason out a problem in a sane and reasonable way. That’s pretty important in government because there are always many alternatives to problems.”

Before attending the School of Law at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Holshouser attended Davidson College (Class of '56).

While at Davidson, he majored in history and was sports editor of both The Davidsonian and The Quips and Cranks. He kept the basketball team’s scoreboards for three years.

He also played in the football band and concert orchestra.

After completing law school in 1960, he became an attorney in Boone, North Carolina. From 1963-1971, he served four terms in the N.C. House of Representatives. During this time he was selected as House Majority Leader and as the Joint House-Senate Caucus Leader.

...Rural needs

(Continued from page 3)

will cater to rural needs, helping reduce infant mortality and malnutrition. I hope our work will reawaken the AMA.”

“In our proposed work, we will obtain an incredible amount of data. The project has real potential. It is not a lark; not just a trip to England, but will require a tremendous amount of work,” said Petrowski.

Murphey and Petrowski have no idea whether they will receive these grants, and the SOS grant winners will not be announced until March. If they receive this grant, they will need four other students to help carry out the research.

“In writing the grant proposals alone we have spent countless hours,” said Murphey.

Murphey hopes to attend medical school upon graduation and Petrowski has not decided between medical school and K-Mart clerkship.

CAMEO

THE FINEST IN STEAK & SEAFOOD

27 ITEM SALAD BAR
BROWN BAGGING
BEER AND WINE
PARTY FACILITIES

HOURS:
WED & THURS 5 - 10 PM
FRI, SAT & SUN 5-11 PM

HIGHWAY 115 N.
MOORESVILLE
663-5510

Ridge Avenue

Holiday Gee Rink

PHONE 782-9028
ICE SKATING

Monday 7-10 P.M.
Saturday 2-5 P.M., 7-10 P.M.
Sunday 2-5 P.M.

Concord, N.C.

JOIN OUR SKATING CLASSES NOW!
Call 7-10 P.M. to ENROLL