October 12, 1492

The Davidsonian

Valentines To The Editor

Canterbury Accepts Godbehere Post

To the Editor:

I would like to recommend that all the seniors here consider applying for the job of Assistant to the President.

Mr. Sam, he’s so good to me, why he gave me four years of education, a little money, and the respect of all the student children here.

He even invited me to the big house to meet his family. Why, there ain’t nothing I wouldn’t do for Little Miss Eva.

I get to plan all the fine barbecues, run errands, fix the coffee, answer the phone, and I even get to sweep up.

In general, I get charge of all the things that students get to do here at the College. I’m in tall cotton.

There’s a bale of work in all the fields of liberal arts for an Assistant to do, and I hear that they’re going to sell me down the river to endowment money, so the job’s open next year.

I hereby extend an invitation to all the students here to come by and eat watermelons with me.

Uncle Jerry C. Godbehere '74

To the Editor:

After agonized deliberation, I have decided to re-enter public life at Davidson. My agent and I decided you should be the first to know.

I accept the job as Assistant to the President. At the moment my schedule for next year looks pretty open in spite of a series of Key Club Convention lectures. But I’ve done things like this before, you know.

And if Godbehere feels like cutting out early in the spring to go walk the Appalachian Trail or something, I can probably work it in even then.

I haven’t mastered the dialect quite yet, but I’m real good with rhetoric.

You may wonder why I’ve given up retirement. You shouldn’t though, because any moron should understand.

It’s like this: I’m not through with Davidson. I hate loose ends. And brother, you’ve got them around this dump. A loose-ended laundry; loose-ended Trustees; loose-ended students. A lot of CLUTTER, don’t you see?

And besides, how can they select N.C. Fellows without me?

West Virginia politics is simply going to have to hold its breath awhile.

Steven D. Canterbury ’75
Davidson College

To the Editor:

I am a little disturbed at your printing the article on former Dean of the Honors Center Earl R. MacCormac for several reasons.

It is customary to wait until an office has a vacancy before one runs for that office. I can assure you there is no vacancy filling the office now.

But the main reason I’m a bit upset is this: I’m not sure if you’re being serious or not. So let me in on the idea. Is this a joke or not? Come on, guys, you can tell me. Really.

Samuel R. Spencer Jr.
Davidson College

To The Editor:

I guess it’s time to admit that some of the articles we’ve printed since January haven’t been quite serious.

We’ve been pulling your leg all along, and you didn’t even know it. Silly you! You kept asking when we were going to have a lampoon, and we passed the five previous issues right under your nose without you suspecting a thing.

Therefore, we feel it necessary to run this retraction. You can take this issue for gospel and forget all those funny things about substandard housing, admissions, and the college endowment.

The Editors and staff
Davidson College

To the Editor:
Fuck P.E.

Jeff George ’76
Davidson College

To the Editor:
Fuck Jeff George.
Will H. Terry
Davidson College

Join Us At Ron Scott’s

“We're Bullshit On America”

To the Editor Emeritus:

Thanks for all of your efforts to make The Davidsonian a really first-class newspaper. In your well-earned retirement, we all wish you an engaging engagement and a merry marriage.

Thanks for inviting us all to the wedding. It’s about time we were introduced to Amy.

Your former Staff
Davidson College 75, 76, 77, 78

To the Editor:

I confess. I’m the one who stole all the rare books. Old soldiers never die.

Chalmers G. Davidson
Davidson College

MacCormac For President

Perfection Guaranteed

Davidson Needs A Winner!

No More Double-Talk.
No More Idle Rhetoric.
Come Up To Metaphors.

Paid for by the MacCormac For College President seal
H. L. Hennis, Treasurer