October 24, 1975
The Davidsonian

By LARRY LIGO
Staff Writer

I just have two matters of business to settle before I start. First, I want to tell you why I
am writing for this paper. Well, no, I want to tell you why I’m not writing for this paper. I’m
not writing because Mark and I are good friends. Oh, we are friends, but that wouldn’t entice me to write
unless I wanted to, which I don’t. The very thought of some student reading, relishing my column, beaming with excitement
at every word as if he had found a Caravaggio, that’s a Michelangelo Caravaggio, in his attic, sickens me to
death. I literally cannot believe I’m doing this horrible thing. And a favor, I’m doing it as a favor! I
am truly undone. My conscience just got the better of me and here I am...producing! I can’t stand it. We
who deal in the aesthetics should be pampered, understood, our niche in society should be created. We should be allowed
to swim downstream. We are luxuries. Our houses should be built for us. And herein lies my guilt. I, Larry
L. Ligo, A.B., B.D., have taken this thing too far. I suppose all artists have to look back and take
stock once in a while to see how their lives are running. It is a common malady of our species
that we feel from time to time that we are a drain on the community. We all feel at one
time or another that we are swimming downstream too quickly. I feel this now. I have accepted too much too
generously and too fast. I do not lecture in class, I do not make up my own tests, I did
not build my own house. Students give oral reports, students make up my tests, students are still building my house.
My wife Christine cuts my steak into tiny bites so that I don’t have a hard time chewing. My generosity
in accepting these things is... well, it is Rubenesque! I must become something. I must do something. I must write
for this paper. We are doomed to fail unless we function as an organic society. Every man must be happy
with his work, taking solace in the fact that he is getting something done that contributes to the whole of
society. The lowly swain may look up from his hog trough and, wiping his face clean with a tattered sleeve,
say, “I am doing my job the best way I can. I am irreplaceable in the scheme of totality. I
am useful.” The magnificent merchant, at the pinnacle of haute culture and sparkling with jewels, may say, “I am rich
and I am powerful but I would not have mutton on my table if it were not for the lowly
swain, functioning as he should and as only he can to bring about the fully integrated society of labor.” We
all have our duties, our abilities, our faults. If we could just learn to co-exist in the truest sense, accepting
people for what they can do for us, then we will succeed. The problems will come when people are too
proud to accept.

Faculty Guest Column
Ligo accepts position as load for organic society

Coming Attractions

Friday, Oct. 24
All day - Re-registration, Registrar’s office
3:00 pm - ROTC war games, intramural fields
3:00 pm - YMCA picnic, intramural fields
6:00 pm - Slave Auction with Chi Omega from Queens, KA house, ROTC POWs
8:00 pm - Popular Film: “Once is Not Enough” Part II

Saturday, Oct. 25
8:00 am - Midnight - CEEB Mental Aptitude Test, Dana
All Day - Wildcat Club Fund Drive, Main Street
1:30 pm - Pre-game pep rally, Library
2:00 pm - Football game vs. Queens, Practice Field
5:00 pm - Post-game reception with football team, Huntersville Hospital
5:00 pm - Post-game reception with coaches, Charlotte Unemployment Office
6:00 pm - Library closes, Library
9:00 pm - Concert: Horace Drew and the Bugaloos, 900 Room
10:00 pm - JYA/Grease, Union Snack Bar

Sunday, Oct. 26
2:00 pm - Club football game vs. Duke, Richardson Field
9:30-10:00 pm - Gym open to students, Gym
11:00 am - ARA picnic, Richards Dumpster

Monday, Oct. 27
9:00 am - Start of Registration for Spring Term, Registrar’s office
10:00 am - End of Registration for Spring Term, Registrar’s office
8:00 pm - Drama Production: “Sodom and Gomorrah,” Hodson Hall

Tuesday, Oct. 28
7:30 pm - Open End on Violence with Tom Couch, Union
8:30 pm - Cultural Presentation: “My Man, Mao” by Dr. Ernie Patterson, Perkins

Wednesday, Oct. 29
3:00 pm - Cross Country at Southern California, Southern California State
8:00 pm - Fine Film: “Le Revenant et Monsieur Poulet”
9:00 pm - Biology Charades: “Madame Butterfly” by Dr. Tom Daggy, Irwin Lodge
10:30 pm - Fine Film #2: “Bambi Goes Hawaiian in Beach Blanket Bingo”others’ work. Wait! What have I stumbled upon
here? I am a functioning member of society. I accept others' work with real skill. Never congratulatory, never too thankful,
I am the organic man! And what am I doing? Writing in this paper and probably stepping on the toes
of a person who wants to do this... someone with skill for this stuff. I’ll quit. I hope you enjoyed
finding a Caravaggio in your attic.

What-A-D Connors burns track, Begins calling names
By CHARLES KURALT

In a surprisingly vicious attack Tuesday, Assistant Vice President of Development Mark Connors called the WILLIAMS college “an institution” and
said that “a moron could do Craven’s job.” (Craven Williams is Vice President of Development.) “Craven has done a good
job in his moronic position, and I speak for everyone when I say he has helped bring a little more
of Mary Baldwin down South, but an ape in a suit would be equally valuable. Maybe more so. The situation
is hilarious, Craven is actually too smart for his job!” said Connors convulsively.

Connors’ outburst was recorded by The Davidsonian while Connors was running around the college track early Tuesday morning. Williams had
just beaten Connors in a short race.

By ERNEST HEMINGWAY
Staff Writer

I woke up, rolled over, and threw my alarm clock out the window. She asked me if I was happy
and I said, “I might be, but you’ve got something to do with that.” The bitch said, “I’m following your
alarm clock.” I don’t really know if she did. I buried my head and moaned. My sweaty pillow told me
the same story my head did. I had been to WHAT A BURGER. The dead-to-the-world feeling didn’t leave me until
mid-afternoon. I had apparently thrown up during the night. I don’t know. It might have been the bitch.

As I began to realize that life does exist after death, I knew my visit to What a Burger was
over. What a Burger is located on Main Street in Mooresville. For hamburgers, it is no place to go. The
milkshakes are salty. The filet of fish sandwiches crunch. You can blow a bubble with the french fries. The service
is slow and the plastic straws are clogged. However, the waitresses make it all worthwhile, for some. I have enjoyed
many a night listening to the jukebox play “Between Lust and the Television Set” and making my own urbane choice.

I got out of bed and looked at my face in the cracked shaving mirror I stole from somebody. A
sort of crust surrounded my mouth as if I had been eating all night. So it wasn’t the bitch. What
a Burger will do it to you. My meal the evening before had consisted of one What A Burger and
a Sprite that must have been made to celebrate the bicentennial of the discovery of carbonation. My head became numb,
my tongue was loose, and I began to assault the virtues of a waitress. She had seen my type before
and handled me like I was worthless. I began to become intrigued and demanded that she kiss me. She refused
but followed me as I was leaving.

What A Burger smells like Lysol and old socks. Even while I was jawing to the bitch I could never
escape this odor. It was bad enough to ruin my appetite but had the qualities of sensuality that a sterile
environment can’t match. I loved it, I hated it, and so it was with the bitch. She intrigued me. She
knew what she was doing too. I became aware of that before I even got to 3rd gear. She had
been around. I knew. It’s just a feeling you get way down inside that surfaces in statements like “Hey, you’re
really good, you know that?” “Yeah. I know. What else is new?”

Nothing was new, and after that night, nothing would ever be new again. It’s not like you think it’s going
to be; you wake up with a sweaty pillow after you went to bed with an angel. It’s the pits.
The What A Burger decor is nothing. A jukebox provides entertainment but who needs the damn thing. The floor is
linoleum and has suffered from being cleaned semi-weekly with industrial cleanser. You may wait in your car, drive-in style if
you want to, but you miss a lot. I didn’t miss anything. The food made me ill, but the bitch
made me sick. As I combed my hair and thought about it, I wasn’t dead, I was alive, but changed.
As I lick my wounds, all internal, I ask that you try What A Burger.
