Two The Davidsonian February 20, 1975

Shewmake Resolution Passes Senate Proposes Watts Lock Removal

By MARK GERGEN Staff Writer

At this week’s meeting, the Senate passed a resolution asking that the College administration remove all the window screens and
card locks from Watts.

Senator Tenley Shewmake’s resolution received Senate support following three weeks of debate on the resolution. The final vote was 13-3-1.
Shewmake stated, “Many students asked when visiting last spring if the women would receive any special treatment. They were told
they wouldn’t.”

Carol Watkins pointed out, “It is impossible to remove the screens from the inside, while with a screwdriver they can
be removed quickly from the outside.” She went on to add that the card-lock presented a greater danger since it
would take longer to get in. Shewmake concluded, “The locked doors and screens would not have prevented any of the
incidents last year, that would not have been just as well stopped if the doors on the rooms had been
locked.”

Of 14 co-eds polled who lived on first Watts last year, only three felt the security measures were necessary. Ed
Willingham, Freshman Advisor next year, stated, “During the summer they asked me about the security measures, as head of campus
security I felt they would be helpful. I talked to Martha Royster and the Hall Counselors and they agreed.” Willingham
added, “There is a security problem, for example, sometimes some of the freshmen on my hall go out to Hattie’s
and come back drunk. They then wander through Watts banging on doors. The locks will prevent this.”

Senator Rick Roylance stated, “It is a fact that the college does have legal liabilities, therefore any resolution that does
not recognize these liabilities is irresponsible.”

Senator Shewmake stated that a lawyer in Charlotte responded that the college is only legally liable if there is a
known person or group that is dangerous.

Judith Goldman, the managing editor of Art News Magazine, has finished her work as juror of the Davidson National. The
show will go on display March 16.

Shewmake went on to add that if locks were on Watts, Title 9 would necessitate commensurate measures on the rest
of the campus. Senator Bill Green stated, “In the past, the responsibility for security has been left up to the
students. Once those locks are installed, the problem could arise elsewhere and eventually locks would go everywhere.”

The final resolution was arrived at after Senator Martin Eakes proposed that two whereas’s be struck. The Senate agreed 9-5-1.
The proposal to remove them was debated and finally the two whereas’s were removed 11-6-0. Senator Steve Smith then amended
the amendment to replace the deleted phrases. Smith’s amendment was passed 11-3-3. The Senate reconsidered and voted to redelete the
phrases 11-6-0. Eakes and Shewmake then proposed an amendment replacing the two phrases and a third with something that said
the same thing in a different way; the amendment was passed 13-3-1.

Not present at last week’s meeting were Mitchell Garrell, Dana English, and Susan Reid. Absent from this week’s meeting were
Mitchell Garrell, Roger Brown, and Tom Ionas.

SGA Senate Resolution On Watts’ Security

Whereas the screens on windows of first floor Watts are both ineffectual security measures and fire hazards, as removal from
the inside is difficult in case of fire, but removal from the outside is easily accomplished, and

Whereas administrators admit that previous security breaches would not have been prevented by either card lock doors or window screens,
and

Whereas the card lock doors may well provide a security problem in themselves as residents are forced to stop and
stand outside the dorm to use the card lock, and

Whereas the administration willingly admits that any incidents the card lock doors might prevent are as readily prevented when residents
lock their room doors, and

Whereas the women students should receive no special treatment and are responsible enough to decide for themselves whether or not
to lock their own doors,

The SGA Senate requests that Davidson College not re-install the card lock on Watts dorm, and that the college remove
the screens from first floor Watts’ windows, thereby pursuing a consistent security policy. The Senate also requests that the college
giveAssurances that no efforts will be made that restrict the rights and responsibilities of any students because of their sex.

Goldman Selects 161 Works For Fourth Davidson National
By VINCE RABIL
Contributing Editor

The Fourth Davidson National Print and Drawing show will open officially on March 16th. The Davidson National is acclaimed by
artists across the country as the best of its kind in the U.S. According to Judith Goldman, the managing editor
of Art News magazine and this year’s juror, the Davidson National has established its reputation very quickly and has attracted
entries of high quality from every area of the country. Goldman stated that the main reason for the phenomenal success
of the National is the competition’s director, Herb Jackson. Every aspect of the show has been well thought-out and well
planned by Jackson who works year-round on mailing lists, publicity, and organization.

In addition to being managing editor of "Art News" magazine, Goldman is adjunct lecturer in graphics at Hunter College and,
at the New School for Social Research in New York, she teaches print connoisseurship. She was founding editor of “The
Print Collector’s Newsletter,” and she has written for most of the major art periodicals. Goldman has been Guest Curator for
the Pratt Graphics Gallery and for the William Benton Art Museum at the University of Connecticut. She spent an intensive
two and a half days selecting the final 161 works from among nearly 2,500 entries. The range of styles and
media submitted was naturally very broad. Ms. Goldman said that she felt like a camera focusing in on each picture
in order to see its statement and problems completely. Her criteria are perhaps easy to understand, but hard to elaborate
specifically for the reason that specific criteria are relative to particular works, styles, and media. Goldman said that when she
looks at a work, the first thing she asks is, “Does it hold together graphically?” What this question means for
an abstract may be entirely different from what it means for a figural or representational work. Graphic integrity involves use
of medium, use of imagery, design, coherency, size, and adequate resolution of individual aesthetic problems within a consistent or harmonious
style. Since the quality of entries was so high, most of the works came off well against the above criteria
and Goldman then had to rely on finer, more personal criteria that is determined mostly by her own tastes. In
her opinion, the color and abstract prints did not come off as well as the black and white representational works,
which are better suited to small formats. In recent years, photography has had a major impact on works submitted, but
Goldman felt that most of the prints using photographs did not work that well and were more shallow than works
influenced by the camera but “seen with the eye and rendered with the hand.”

Several trends seemed to emerge among the entries this year. In keeping with the national turn back to figurative art,
many artists entered work that was very literary and narrative. Doom and destruction, and nature versus the evils of industrial
civilization were dominant themes, but Ms. Goldman commented that there was a strange comic element in much of it. Several
were done in cartoon-type formats. Other recurring images were sea shells, insects, frogs, and fruit—especially strawberries. Nostalgia seemed to break
on the scene in a big way this year, and there were the usual amounts of camp and eroticism. “Art
that’s good is almost never flashy,” said Goldman.

Davidsonian Staff
Production Manager: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Production Manager: WILLIAM KENNON
News Editor: MATTHEW COVINGTON
Assistant News Editor: ANNE PELFREY
Features Editor: LARRY MIMMS
Assistant Features Editors: STEVE JOHNSON, VAN WILLIAMSON
Photography Editor: LEON VENABLE
Associate Editors: DON BENSON, ANNE FICKLEN, CHUCK HARMON, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP, ERIC WALKER
Contributing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, JOE MCMILLAN, VINCE RABIL, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Business Manager: JEFF SICH
Advertising Manager: DAVID TRADER
Circulation Managers: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Staff Artists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL, PATTI SMISSON, BETH WIER
Copy Editors: CAMILLE CATHEY, SABRA FAIRES

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.
