March 27, 1975

Fast for life

CROP funds provide food and health care for this child in the Sahel region of Africa.

CROP support

By DON BENSON
Associate Editor

Davidson College conducts two major programs at Broughton State Mental Hospital in Morganton, N.C. An eight-week summer course involves a
maximum of twenty students spending from twenty to twenty-five hours per week in the hospital. The Psychology 231 class, Advanced
Abnormal, spends one day per week during the term at Broughton Hospital.

As leader of both programs, Professor of Psychology W.G. Workman explained, “We’ve had these opportunities for about four years now.
Over the past few years I’ve heard of several schools adding such programs, but when we started ours at Davidson
I had heard of only three others.”

The Advanced Abnormal classes are offered as a seminar with a maximum of...

Friday fast to prompt assistance for starving

By ANNE PELFREY
Asst. News Editor

“Over 3.7 billion people are going without food. By fasting we hope to gain a sense of brotherhood with these
people and a sense of duty,” said Bill Bond, co-organizer for the Davidson Good Friday fast. This fast, planned by
the Eumenian Society and others under the direction of Bob Mooty, includes asking for donations to alleviate hunger in the
world. The money will go to CROP, an organization dedicated to fighting world hunger.

“We plan to set up tables in front of Belk and in Chambers to accept donations,” Bond said. Director of
ARA Food Services Ron Scott has also offered to help with the fast. “People who normally eat at Slater can
sign up to fast. Half of the profit of what they would have eaten will go to CROP,” said Bond.

Mooty indicated that an offering for CROP will be given by the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. “Rush Otey and John
Rogers have been a great help to us. Rush was the initial impetus for the program and helped with the
date selection,” said Mooty. “Obviously there’s religious significance to Good Friday, but we want support from everyone. This is not
just a Christian issue but a human issue.”

The initiators of the fast say that they would like response from students other than just money: “Pity can be
cheap.”

“Only by going hungry can one understand and empathize with those who are hungry. Pity can sometimes be cheap,” said
Bond. “The organization does not concern itself with converting people, but only with getting them food,” said Mooty. “Now, the
area of most need is in the Sahel region in Africa. There has been a seven-year drought in that area,
which is right next to the Sahara Desert. People there are dying from starvation,” Mooty said. “CROP money will go
there. CROP also helps in India, parts of America, and other hungry areas of the world,” he added.

$3000 goal

The goal for the money-raising aspect of the fast is between $2500 and $3000, according to Mooty. “I don’t want
the idea of the fast to die out,” he said.

Davidsonian Staff

Production Manager: BILL ELLETT
Associate Editors: DON BENSON, JEFF SICH
Assistant Production Manager: ANNE FICKLEN
Advertising Manager: WILLIAM KENNON
CHUCK HARMON, DAVID TRADER
News Editor: THOM NICOLL
Circulation Managers: MATTHEW COVINGTON, GUS SUCCOP, RICKY BELL
Assistant News Editor: ERIC WALKER, JEFF NEIKIRK, ANNE PELFREY
Contributing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, KEVIN BRODE, LARRY MIMMS, JOE DUNCAN, PAUL MITCHELL
Features Editor: GREG DUNN, PATTI SMISSON, STEVE JOHNSON, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, BETH WIER
Staff Artists: JOE MCMILLAN
Copy Editors: VINCE RABIL, CAMILLE CATHEY, GORDON WIDENHOUSE, SABRA FAIRES

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Six students. Class is conducted in the car on the way to Morganton. “We used to allow only five students,
but this year I got hold of a station-wagon,” said Workman.

Broughton State Mental Hospital has about 1640 patients in a wide variety of programs. While at the hospital, students are
commonly given the opportunity to observe some form of group therapy program. Workman added, “We try to let each student
establish friendly relations with at least one patient. This requires about a minimum of one hour every week. We also
attend and participate in the hospital’s weekly recreational activities, which is usually a dance.”

Students keep a journal of their experiences concentrating on an evaluation of the hospital’s program, an account of changes in
the patients, and a criticism of the course. The term grade rests primarily on a term paper; the topic utilizing
the student’s experiences. “We make an effort to avoid the kind of paper that could be done without visiting the
hospital,” said Workman.

“This term students are involved with geriatrics, a token economy, and intermediate care units. A token economy unit is geared
toward training the patient for normal living with the hope of getting the individual out of Broughton. Those who need
intermediate care are seriously disordered individuals. These people require considerable supervision and are in locked wards.”

During the eight-week summer program, students are housed at the normal staff facilities. Credit is given for Psychology 131 and
231. Workman said, “This entails an intensive one week introduction to abnormal psychology and an orientation to the hospital that
includes visiting the wards.”

The Department of English of Davidson College announces a competition for the 1975 Vereen Bell Award For Creative Writing. The
Vereen Bell Award carries a first prize of $50 and a second prize of $25. The winners, together with honorary
recognition to other ranking contestants, will be announced at the annual address provided by the Memorial Fund on May 7,
1975 at 4 p.m. in Perkins Auditorium.

All entries must be the original work of their respective entrants and may fall in any recognized category of creative
writing. A student may submit as many entries in as many different categories as he wishes. All entries must reach
some member of the Department of English by Monday, April 21, 1975.

Psychology students establish friendly relations at Broughton. A ninety-minute class is given each day with members of the Broughton staff
presenting lectures about once a week. “Here the students work as aides, attendants, and technicians while servicing the wards,” said
Workman. “They are rotated among at least four different activities. This can involve the admissions ward, where the patient is
diagnosed; active treatment areas moving toward an expected early release; community placement where transfer to a nursing home is likely;
token economy areas concentrating on special behavior modifications; or possibly the youth activities center.”

Students have close contact with the Broughton staff. Besides a weekly lecture, Dr. Workman said, “We try to work each
student into an ongoing therapy group at the hospital. This gives them a close contact with the professional staff.”

Workman estimated that “about a third of the participating students are interested in graduate work in psychology. The others are
moving toward other fields such as medicine, the ministry, or some other form of counseling. We still have some openings
for the program this summer.”
