the davidsonian
December 19, 1975

Freshman Whiz Cindy Morrison - Pete Goodman drives in for two in women’s cage victory over Catawba.

Girls down Catawba in conference game
By DAVE WILEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson College girls’ basketball team opened its conference schedule with a 64-53 victory over Catawba College in Johnston Gym Monday night. The Cattes combined 45 percent shooting accuracy with a solid defensive effort to down the team that won the North Carolina Division II title two years ago and was runner-up last year.

“I was really pleased with our effort,” said assistant coach Ken Schmader. “We shot well, rebounded well, and played a strong defensive game. When you do those things you should win.”

Head coach Rosalee Janaro also expressed satisfaction with the victory, the first of her coaching career. “We were able to work the ball in for good shots, and we played well defensively,” she said. “It was a fine effort by the entire team.”

Davidson never trailed in the contest. The Cattes capitalized on three Catawba turnovers to jump out 7-0 after 1:18, but Catawba closed the gap to 9-6 in less than a minute. Davidson again spurted to an 18-11 lead, but a basket by Catawba’s Kathy Bradshaw narrowed the margin to five with 12:48 left in the first half. Neither team scored for the next six minutes. The Cattes reeled off three buckets to take a 27-20 halftime lead.

The Cattes scored shortly after the start of the second half to open up their largest lead, and matched it at 34-25. Catawba came back to 35-30, but three straight baskets by Beth Tanner and Donna Sherrill gave Davidson a 41-30 lead. Catawba mounted a final threat, and with 5:47 left in the game narrowed the gap to 55-49. The Cattes went on a spree as Renee Soos hit from the corner, Cindy Morrison scored on a layup off a steal in the backcourt, and Sherrill and Soos each tossed in another basket to run up the biggest lead of the night, 64-49. Catawba scored the final two baskets as Davidson coasted in for the 64-53 decision.

“In every game we have played so far, we have suffered a number of offensive lapses when we just cannot score,” said Schmader. “It is important for us to play a strong 40 minutes.”

Conference eyes possible members
By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

The Southern Conference held its annual winter meeting last week in Charlotte. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss internal matters and to review league policies. The most important matter discussed was that of possible new members to the conference, which shrinks to seven schools in June when the University of Richmond becomes an independent.

Commissioner Ken Germann announced that a number of schools have expressed interest in joining the conference, although he admits that the degree of interest varies among the different schools. As a result of last week’s meeting, the member schools decided to send a committee to visit interested institutions during the months of January and February, and to report on these schools at the spring meeting.May 7 in Greenville, North Carolina. The Commissioner emphasized that any new school or schools entering the conference must have Division I football programs. "Football is important to the Conference, and its being strong keeps the Conference strong," Commissioner Germann stated. The winter visits are going to be centered around three schools, although others may be considered. The three schools to be most strongly considered in replacing Richmond are Western Carolina, the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, and Marshall University. The Conference is hopeful that a decision will be made at the May 7th meeting. Commissioner Germann said that he did not feel that the loss of Richmond would be a deathblow to the conference, and he pointed to a renewed spirit of unity in the conference, the rise in the degree of competition, and the improvement of the conference’s financial situation as examples of the Southern Conference’s stability. As a result of the meeting, the Commissioner announced that the final game of the Southern Conference Tournament on March 4th will be televised regionally by an independent producer. He also announced that 13 student tickets will be available. The 1976 soccer schedule was also set. Instead of a division format as before, the seven teams will play a six-game round-robin schedule in which each team will play three home games and three away games.

Soos led all scorers with 19 points, followed by Sherrill with 14. Morrison and Kat Morton led the Cattes’ board corps with nine rebounds each; Matheny with eight and Sherrill and Soos with seven each helped considerably. Clark led Catawba with 12 points and 13 rebounds, and Bradshaw and Sherry Garner also chipped in a dozen points. “The key to the game was our defense and rebounding,” commented Janaro. “Renee and Donna both played a fine game.” Added Schmader, “The back line of our 2-1-2 defense (Matheny, Sherrill, and Morton) played extremely well. Matheny played probably her best defensive game. Catawba had several good outside shooters, and they never gave up,” said Schmader. “We were never able to put them away, but the victory is definitely a credit to our team.” The win gives the Cattes a record of 1-2. The team plays next at Converse on January 8 and hosts High Point the following night.

WOODSHED WOODSHED WOODSHED WOODSHED WOODSHED

1105 NORTH MAIN STREET MOORESVILLE

HAPPY HOUR EVERY NITE FROM 8 - 9

DRAFT $.15

WEDNESDAY

Instruments electronic calculators

WED NITE IS BEER NITE - COVER $1.00

DRAFT $.25 CANS $.35

THURSDAY

COVER $1.00

Ridge Avenue - Concord, NC.

PHONE 782-9028

DEPLETE OUR SUPPLY BEFORE CHRISTMAS.

ICE SKATING

SATURDAY

COVER $2.50

LIVE MUSIC WED THRU SAT

Call 7-10 P.M. to ENROLL