April 10, 1975

The Davidsonian - Eric Walker

Letters to the Editor

Tonight I sympathize with military moguls who are worried with countless battles and get called to press conferences. “No comment”
is their favorite retreat when they won’t admit “I don’t know.” Tonight I would be willing to forgive them. My
battles are a bit fierce and I’ve been called to comment and pronounce. This is my no comment retreat. It’s
a problem to smother your own five skirmishes and seek out the battles that really matter. I’ve gone A.W.O.L. haywire
lately and lost track of your regiment out there somewhere. Such as: Gilbert Harrison, late of the New Republic, hosted
a discussion here that quickly turned to contemporary international politics. I did my best to grapple with genocide and Congressional
power balances, but I couldn’t come up with that really big question that I knew needed asking and would make
everything fall into place if only I could figure out what it was. No, all my feeble mind could think
about was what that guy on the F.B.I. (Zimbalist? Zionist?) had said about the Communist Threat as supper had gurgled
on the stove. And that certainly doesn’t matter. I couldn’t get up the nerve to present Gilbert Harrison with a
question that opened “I was watching the F.B.I. this afternoon and was wondering...”

Carnegie decision shocks alumnus

To the Editor:

I remember that in my student days I despised reading alumni letters which began with the phrases “when I was
at Davidson...” and “I was shocked and appalled to read that...” But this is my first letter to The Davidsonian--I
find the temptation is more than I can resist. In the March 20 issue of The Davidsonian I was shocked
and appalled to read an editorial decrying Dr. Spencer’s decision to convert the Carnegie Building into a guest house. When
I was at Davidson, that is just what the Carnegie Building was--the Guest House. It was furnished with lovely antiques
and oriental carpets and provided countless distinguished guests, lecturers, students’ dates, dancers, singers, and actors with accommodation in odd-shaped rooms,
many of them with no windows. Last year I visited the campus and found the Old Student Union, with its
spacious foam-rubber porch, had been demolished to make way for the new library. Old Guest House C. Shaw Smith I
found cozily ensconced in the old Guest House, which had become the Temporary Student Union. Now I find that Herb
Jackson had been teaching you people to draw (and very well, I might add) and thus the art department had
laid claim to the old building for studio space. And the Honors Program is growing and the college desperately needs
a new chemistry facility. Certainly all of these are legitimate needs. Jackson deserves some consideration after the wanton destruction of
the lovely mural he painted in the dining hall of the old Union. And Earl MacCormac deserves all the consideration
he can get. Undeniably a new union building is needed and if the college is to maintain its pre-med program,
chemistry facilities must be provided for. And of course, distinguished guests of the college cannot be expected to bed down
on Spencer’s Castro Convertible when they are in town.

Proposed Compromise

In the midst of this row, I would like to propose a compromise, a plan reflecting the kind of fresh,
creative thinking which is the goal of education at Davidson. I suggest that the chemistry department be given the south
wing of the Chambers Building. The administrative offices, etc. can be moved to the old chemistry building. The north wing
of Chambers can be used to house the ever-expanding Honors Program. Then the Carolina Inn will be freed-up for conversion
into commodious and convenient art studio space. Of course, classrooms must be provided for, so I further suggest that Belk
Dormitory be given over to this. Student housing needs can be met by converting the Johnston Gymnasium into a dormitory.
After all, many students already practically live in the gym, and we all agree that Belk is totally unfit for
human habitation. Then we can get on with the business of building a new gym, which is what we alumni
really wanted all along. As for the Old Carnegie Building, I suggest it be renovated and used for the purpose
which Andrew Carnegie--in his wisdom--originally intended it: a library. Surely it is large enough to house all the books Davidson
students actually use. From his newly renovated offices in the new administration building (formerly the chemistry building), our President can
look out on this New Creation and solemnly pronounce, “It is good.” I am still trying to figure out what
to do with the College Church.

The Rev. Philip David Jones, ‘68

To the Editor:

As I’m writing this I sit in the Goals Committee Meeting of March 26. Though this is the body of
people who are at least trying in theory to shape the direction of the college in the way we want
it to go in the future, there are fewer than ten students here. Where are you? I believe the college
is only the sum of what we make it. It follows that if we put in no effort we can
expect no results and I say this not as a guilt-producing prophecy of doom but as a challenge. I’m not
moralizing; I for myself simply want to refuse to be apathetic. The old system does not have to stay the
same unless we let it; apathy does not have to be the norm.

Margaret Hunter, ’78Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

nerve to address you with what John Hollander said writing poetry meant to him and what he thought writing poetry
meant to Allen Ginsberg. Biographers might call this a "crisis of objectivity." Another sure sign that you’d better shut your
mouth is when you start thinking about biographers. If they fascinate you that much, go out and be one but
don’t contract one by any means. They’re a disease. I’m a bit too aware of my lack of claim to
your attention. Virginia Woolf, in "A Letter to a Young Poet," ended with this advice: don’t publish anything before you
are 30. I’ll believe her tonight: Have something to say before you try saying it. And the things worth saying
are out there in the big battles and not the private skirmishes. That’s where you learn to fight, unobserved. I
knew things were getting shaky when someone was able to convince me nights ago (for the night only) that writing
poetry was useless except as a private ritual. I admitted that the best poems are not written. I’ve tempered that
a bit now. The best Decatur, Alabama Davidson College poems are not yet ripe for the writing. Walk away from
this page.

STEP tutoring: Students bridge community gap
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

“Around 2:00 the principal called me over the intercom and told me that my tutor was waiting for me in
the office. I was surprised because I thought it was too late to get a tutor. We walked around campus
and talked with some of his friends...” Vincent Huntley, a sixth grader at Davidson Elementary School, described his first day
with his STEP tutor, Mark Wilensky. “We go out to his house or go bowling...catch basketballs, play tennis...sometimes we watch
baseball games.”

STEP up

For Daryl Houston, also a sixth grader, these activities are an important part of his week. He has been in
the STEP program with his tutor, Kenny Eiler, for four years. Davidson’s STEP program is coordinated by sophomores John Allen
Tucker and Mark Yow. They direct tutor drives in the fall and spring of the year, and generally try to
find any college students who are interested in spending a few hours a week with a second through seventh grader
from the Davidson community. Speaking about the college, Yow said, “They (the ‘tutees’) tend to view it as a big
deal; It’s like a big mystery to them. There are a lot of opportunities here that they couldn’t get any
other way.” Yow and Tucker work through the principal and the teachers in Davidson Elementary to find people who are
interested in having a tutor. Often, however, elementary students become interested in the program through their friends who have tutors.
They may find a tutor through activities at the Depot or simply by asking students they meet on the college
campus.

Houston helps his tutor with various group STEP activities throughout the year. He helped dye the eggs for the STEP
Easter Egg Hunt on the Thursday before Easter Sunday. Huntley, who was a guard for the Hunt, commented, “It was
very exciting for me.”

Popcorn and Pepsis

Houston and Huntley also helped with the popcorn and Pepsis that were given out at the afternoon films shown for
STEP ‘tutees’ and tutors in Chambers two or three weeks ago. Highlights of the films were movies of the Lone
Ranger and the Road Runner. Huntley was in the STEP program in 1972-1973 before he found that he had a
tutor for this year. “Last year I applied for one and didn’t get one,” he explained. Yow confirmed that more
tutors are needed. “The response has really been good, but we can always use new ones,” he said. Yow added,
“Generally the freshmen are eager to get into the program.” About 75 percent of the tutors are freshmen. While a
fair number of upperclassmen participate, most have developed other interests on campus, according to Yow. About 50 percent of the
tutors are women students. “I think it’s a lot harder for the girls,” Yow said. He affirmed that they make
some of the best tutors.

The STEP program is more than an academic help to elementary students. In fact, the main emphasis of the program
is to build relationships. Yow explained that tutors work toward building a better outlook in their friends, not simply tutoring
them.

Tutor’s role

However, if a student needs help in a subject, the tutor is glad to go over the problem with him.
Huntley remarked, “A whole lot of people think a tutor’s just for telling you all the answers. He helps me,
but he doesn’t tell me the answers.”

This year the college has enforced a rule against children from the community being on campus without a sponsor or
using the college facilities such as the Union or Johnston Gym. Yow has received some comments about STEP students violating
this rule. He said that the program is not violating the rule and that associating the students with STEP is
a mistake. Yow concluded, “I’m afraid if these things keep going, they may cause problems in continuing the program.”

Time consumption

Yow said that being a tutor takes as much time as one wants to put into it. He spends three
or four hours a week with his ‘tutee’. Sophomore Bob Kelly’s former ‘tutee’ was a foster child, and Bob spent
some time almost every night with him. Tucker and Yow presently are working on a gala event for STEP members
that will take place in about two weeks. Possible events will include a run through the ROTC obstacle course, an
afternoon softball game, and the annual spring picnic co-sponsored by STEP and the APO service fraternity.
