December 5, 1975

the davidsonian

Electorate: Final filing deadline for

-Robert Trawick

SGA Senate and other campus organization offices will be Friday, Dec. 5.

Murphey, Petrowski seek midwifery research funds

By LARRY MIMMS
Managing Editor

Davidson College juniors Ruth Murphey and Nancy Petrowski have applied for 5 national fellowships to study midwifery programs in England and the United States.

Petrowski and Murphey seek Rockefeller, Joseph P. Kennedy Jr., NATO, and Winston Churchill fellowships to investigate the established midwifery program in England. This study in England will be only the first phase of their overall plan.

The second phase of their project will be a study of the embryonic midwifery program in the United States. They have sent an application to the National Science Foundation to obtain a Student Oriented Studies fellowship (SOS).

Murphey and Petrowski hope to demonstrate a need for midwifery services in the United States and propose a feasible midwifery program in the United States by examining England’s midwifery situation and the young midwifery programs in the U.S.

“Midwifery programs do not only provide registered nurses for delivering babies. A midwifery program includes prenatal advising and care and help with child development up to an age of six months,” said Murphey.

Murphey and Petrowski became interested in midwifery while working in the Obstetrics and Gynecology Dept. of Spartanburg General Hospital this past summer.

“We saw case after case of birth complications due to poor prenatal care and malnutrition. Two-thirds of infant defects and retardation are due to poor prenatal and postnatal care. The present medical community does not provide this care for a majority of mothers and infants,” said Petrowski.

Murphey stated that infant mortality rates in the United States are very high compared with rates in countries like England and Sweden which have established midwifery programs. Infant mortality is especially high in the south and rural areas.

“A great majority of physicians are located in urban areas leaving the rural areas of the U.S. without adequate care. Also, in a city like Atlanta, it costs the parents about $350 for a hospital birth if there are no complications. If complications occur, birth can be a more expensive process than burial,” said Petrowski.

What Murphey and Petrowski want to see is a change within the American Medical Association (AMA) community.

“There are no health departments or laws that say midwifery is illegal. The only static against midwifery comes from the AMA community, which is afraid of midwife competition.

“Midwives will not try to take business away from doctors, but rather fill a great medical gap in poor urban and rural areas. Midwives would be registered nurses who do not act alone but as part of a midwifery center. The center

(See RURAL, page 16)

YMCA disorganization

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson and its Ada Jenkins community center. Many YMCA members work at the center, but the programs there are not responsible to the Y.

“I think the Y has two problems that contribute to its disorganization,” said Goodhouse. “First there is a lack of interest in the Y. There wasn’t a concerted effort made this year to drum up student interest. Although we had a pretty good turnout at the activities fair, we didn’t do much of a job keeping the people we got. I think the fact that there isn’t much interest in the Y is reflective of the student body as a whole.

“In the 1960’s people were willing to get involved and do something for other people. I don’t think that is true anymore,” continued Goodhouse.

Gary Stewart, who is in charge of the depot activities, is attempting to make the depot a kind of coffee house for junior high school children. He describes the planning of the depot as a “one man job” and seems to agree with Goodhouse that the student body has lost interest in the YMCA.

“Davidson is an excellent place for going out on your own and doing what you want to do. Several people in the Y just don’t seem to have the initiative. Basically, it seems that if you have people here at Davidson doing things that they know they can’t get a grade in, they aren’t going to be too interested,” said Stewart.

Many programs run themselves once they are set up. In this past year the upper echelon of the officers, the people who do the planning, has been fairly unorganized or at least informally organized,” said Jones.

“The Y has always been a quiet organization and it would like to remain that way. I don’t think it can stay that way,” continued Goodhouse. Goodhouse suggests a salvation for the ailing YMCA.

He believes that the Y has to try to appeal more strongly to potential and existing members.

“When people were there, willing to do something, when they believed in the Y, they were not given anything to do. I think the Y is going to have to try to attract people actively and become more of a political organization.

FREE LP DRAWING!!

REGISTER FOR FREE ALBUM OF YOUR CHOICE AT THE CAMPUS RECORD SHOP

(DRAWING WED. DEC. 17, 1975)

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

HAPPY HOURS

EVERY THURSDAY & FRIDAY NOW TO CHRISTMAS!!

THURSDAY NIGHT 8:30 - 10:30 PM FRIDAY AFTERNOON 2:00 - 6:00 PM

25¢ DRAFT

CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS ON SALE FROM BASHFULS LTD

PRICES FROM LAST CHRISTMAS

DAVIDSON

First Union National