The Davidsonian Eleven 1975

Thi’s beat rest in softball, Bongs top newcomer ranks

By PAUL BANTA, ALAN EDMONDS, and MIKE RUSS

Before the volleyball season gets under way, Brian “Bowie” Andrews has ordered all opponents of Sid Witz to wear face
masks as the Surgeon General said recently that his spikes are hazardous to the recipient’s health. It’s not as funny
as it sounds because rumor has him knocking out a poor guy a couple of years ago! It’s only fair
to build him up in volleyball after Stiefel did it last week for softball. With him and anybody setting him
up, we see the Thi’s as a strong contender to the established Staten Island Fairies.

Speaking of the SIF’s, you will notice that their illustrious superstars, C.A. and Y.B., are no longer writing this often
obscene column. Whereas you used to read C.A. and Y.B.’s column for the scores and the Freek’s column for the
picks, this serves as a composite of the two. Even though it’s mid-season, we still feel the softball races are
wide open!

Division I
As of the first of this week, the Thi’s gained undisputed possession of first place thanks to the SPE’s 6-5
squeaker over the Chris Ely-led Chakras. The SPE’s changed their image by playing the role of the spoiler instead of
the spoiled. Right now, the Thi’s average winning margin is nine runs while the Chakras and the SPE’s are deadlocked
for second. Meanwhile, PIKA is only 4 games back in the all-important loss column.

Division II
Defending champions KA remained undefeated at 5-0. Phi Delt B dominated the dominable Captain Boxwood (who doesn’t?) 3-0. After that
impressive win, the Delts fell to Cannon III 14-10. This latter team tried to sign up in a B league
but were disappointed that they couldn’t dominate softball the way they had basketball. The Kerwood Derbies beat the Cleveland Browns
13-5 as walk-on Brian Coffey shows promise this spring. They later fell to the Chocolate Speedway in a defensive battle
18-17 (as Alan Duncan’s still tender foot couldn’t come through with a clutch field goal). Other noteworthies in this division
show ATO as the worst team in IMAC and SAE as the biggest fraternity disappointment.

Division III
Top to bottom this looks like the strongest division. How could you avoid good records when two teams forfeited out
of the division? Without a doubt, Richardson III or the Bongs, are “high” with a 6-0 slate as they “bowled”
over KA#2 4-3. This team looks like the “cream of the crop” for all freshmen to admire. Baseball-reject Dan Henderson
led the 5-0 Delt A team past Richardson II (SPE’s of the future), 3-0. The 5-0 Beavers led by Butch
Beard’s two shutouts show definite likenesses to the Oakland A’s (most notably the green and gold uniforms). As soon as
Tenafly can grow a mustache, they will win it all. Also hanging tough is Penthouse at 4-1. Summing up, we
see the final four as IFT, KA#1, PDT A, and Jerry Mathers as the Beavers!

Volleyball leaders
Here are the division leaders as volleyball gets under way: I- PDT #2, II- Emanon A and Derbies A, III-
Emanon Z and SIF (SPE’s are leading here too, but we decided not to mention them), IV- IFT, V- FIJI
(what a weak division).

The Churchof Conservation Invites You To Be An ORDAINED MINISTER And Acquire The Rank DOCTOR OF NATUREPEDICS

Our fast-growing church is actively seeking environment-conscious new ministers who believe what we believe. Man should exist in harmony with
nature. We are a non-structured faith, undenominational, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Benefits for ministers are:

1. Car Emblem I.D.
2. Reduced rates from many hotels, motels, restaurants, car rental agencies, etc. Our directory lists over 1,000 prestige establishments extending
an automatic cash discount.
3. Perform marriages, baptisms, funerals, and all other ministerial functions.
4. Start your own church and apply for exemption from property and other taxes.

Enclose a free-will donation for the minister's credentials and pocket license. Your ordination is recognized in all 50 states and
most foreign countries.

Church of Conservation, Box 375, Mary and Pocket Esther, Florida 32569.

Piedmont Insurance Agency, Inc.
137 N. MAIN ST.
DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036

First Union National.

DAVIDSON

Pattvcake, pattvcake

Pete Goodman

Catherine Bridges of Watts IV strikes back against a Watts I serve in a Tuesday night IMAC volleyball game. Watts
IV went on to win.

Diamonders sport 13 wins with Weicker bat

By BOB HAYMAN
Staff Writer

Outstanding hitting, led by George Weicker, whose average continues to hover near the .500 mark, effective pitching by the entire
staff, and a steadily improving defense highlighted a 3-2 week that boosted the Davidson baseball team’s overall record to 13-8.

Thursday saw the Wildcats hosting Brockport (N.Y. State). Pitcher Tim Barr held the Brockport batters to four scattered hits while
the Davidson nine pounded out 11 hits in an impressive 9-1 victory. Dale Horner went 2 for 5 and scored
twice and Mitch Stone scored twice in a 1 for 4 day, but the big guns for Davidson were right
fielder Ed Willingham and first baseman Weicker. Willingham went 3 for 4 with two RBIs and a run scored while
Weicker doubled and singled in three at-bats. The big first baseman also scored twice and knocked in three runs.

Friday’s effort was less successful as Davidson dropped a tough 6-5 decision to Wake Forest. Davidson outhit the visitors 11-8
but surrendered two runs on costly errors. Shortstop Gary Pomeroy, designated hitter Bill Todd, and second baseman Dave Yearwood each
had two hits while Weicker contributed three to the losing cause.

On Sunday, Davidson traveled to Boone for an important game with Southern Conference foe Appalachian State. The ride home was
a happy one as the Wildcats won 9-5 and boosted their conference record to 5 and 1, good enough for
first place. Horner picked up two hits, two walks, and three runs while left fielder Billy Lynn collected two hits,
including a bases-loaded triple in the eighth inning. Weicker went 3 for 4 while senior Joel Tew picked up the
victory for Davidson, his fourth in six decisions.

The week’s final action took place on Tuesday, April 8, when Davidson hosted William and Mary in a Southern Conference
doubleheader. Davidson won the first game, a 3-2 thriller, but dropped the second, in a disappointing 2-0 loss. The first
game wasn’t decided until the bottom half of the seventh and final inning. Third baseman Horner led off the inning
with a single, was sacrificed to second by Stone, went to third on Pomeroy’s groundout, and then scored on a
two-out single by Weicker. Barr lifted his record to 4-1 by allowing just four hits and was given fine support
by a defense that committed no errors and pulled off two double plays.

The second game was disastrous for Davidson batting averages as William and Mary pitcher Mark Kelliher allowed just one hit.
Stone broke up Kelliher’s bid for a no-hitter with a lead-off double in the seventh. The Wildcats loaded the bases
in that inning but couldn’t score and Dwight Plemmons' fine five-hit pitching was wasted in a losing cause. Weicker, incidentally,
walked twice and was hit by a pitch.

The split pleased neither the players nor first-year coach Junior Wade, but still maintained Davidson’s lead in the conference. Their
conference record now is an impressive 6 and 2. Much of the team’s success is certainly attributable to Coach Wade,
who is on his way to the first winning baseball team at Davidson in the past two decades. Catcher Mark
Rodgman offered a simple explanation for the surprising achievements: “We’re studs.”

Davidson will defend its hold on first place this week with a conference game at the Citadel on April 9,
a home game against Pfeiffer on Friday at 3 p.m., a game with Guilford at 2 p.m. on Saturday, and
a big doubleheader at Richmond on Monday, April 14.
