10 The Davidsonian December 12, 1975

Davidson sacrifices media ideals in Statement of Student Rights

Present drafts fail to delineate rights or responsibilities.

Even at this late stage of dealing with student media in the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities, Article XII
of the College Constitution, the Davidson community seems appallingly ill-prepared to speak, much less write definitive statements about student publications.
The community has approached the media issues like tourists trying to speak a foreign language without knowing the vocabulary. Even
the latest draft of the document, written Dec. 3, 1975, fails to identify the issues. Further, the drafts clearly show
that the authors cannot correctly define their terminology. The Dec. 3 draft fails for the following three reasons: 1) it
does not state rights and responsibilities at issue, 2) it fails to delineate relationships between editors and publisher, and 3)
it obscures the issues through blatant misuse of terminology.

The Student Media section opens with the statement, "The College affirms its commitment to the principle of a free press."
Two paragraphs later, the document recognizes the Board of Trustees’ censorship rights, advance approval of copy being the definition of
censorship. The document thus denies any guarantees of rights to maintain a free student press or freedom of expression in
student media. Recognizing a principle hardly suffices. We question the integrity of the document in that it claims college commitment
to a principle and subsequently denies rights to live under that principle. The issues would be distinguished by one of
the following statements:

"The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in the image." — Kenneth Boulding

Editor
Business Manager
Managing Editors
Executive Editor
Senior News Editor
Photography Editor
Sports Editor
Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C., 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

Letter to the Editor

Dickey deplores obscuring issues with misused terminology

1) The College guarantees freedom of the press to student editors of SGA-chartered publications, or
2) The College affirms its commitment to the principle of a free press, but will not risk a guarantee of
free press and free expression to student publications.

Professor of German Hansford M. Epes Jr., Trustee Governance Committee subcommittee member, champions the rationale for a statement of rights
and responsibilities. "I think this institution ought not to put down just rights and responsibilities in this document, but ideals.
This is what academic freedom is all about," he said.

Difficult to stomach

The Dec. 3 draft is difficult to stomach in that it defines the college as unwilling to guarantee on paper
adherence to its ideals regarding freedom of expression and freedom of the press. The document does not present a picture
of Davidson College many of its constituency can appreciate.

Another subcommittee member, Professor of Religion Alexander J. McKelway likewise has questioned the integrity of previous drafts. McKelway maintains that
a student’s public civil rights cannot be transferred to a private institution. He maintains that student media are organs of
the institution and that issues of guaranteed freedom of expression are not germane. "I don’t think it’s wise to involve
yourself in language which seems to say more than it means," said McKelway. He recognizes only one relationship between college
and student media, the relationship of publisher to publication. "I still wonder if this document raises defenses where there is
no adversary," said McKelway.

Many members of the college community, however, apparently operate as if there is an adversary relationship. One such person is
college President Samuel R.Spencer Jr. maintains that previous drafts have not sufficiently protected the rights of the college as publisher
and stated in an earlier draft of the document that "The Board of Trustees, as publisher, cannot give up the
right of advance approval of copy." To Spencer, the issues involve "giving up" rights rather than recognizing them. Spencer states
the obvious in recognizing that the college "cannot give up" its rights and responsibilities as publisher; the issue at hand,
which Spencer fails to address, concerns the delegation of editorial powers by the publisher to student editors. We believe the
relationship between publisher and editor should be based on a professional model: the editor serves as the agent of the
publisher.

To the Editor:

I would like to make several points concerning the article, "YMCA’s own officers blame others for disorganization," (December 5, 1975).
Concerning the programs of the "Y" this year, the uses of the depot were misrepresented. The original plans for the
depot were realized. Under the very able leadership of Mark Deaton, the YM/YWCA programs at the depot were very successful
for two years. From twenty to sixty children came every weekday afternoon and Saturday morning for such activities as wrestling
lessons, volleyball, softball, kickball, arts and crafts, and many more. When the Ada Jenkins School was turned into a recreation
center, we moved these programs there and searched for new programs to implement at the depot. We were very successful
in this search, and at the beginning of the 1974-75 school year, we began to have the Thursday lunch group.

These were not the only programs implemented at the depot, however. We also set up a thrift shop run by
townspeople to provide low-cost clothing for needy community members. The article rightfully criticized the "Y," but there was insufficient foundation
on which to base the criticism of Davidson students at large. There are other points which make this generalization more
credible: Student inactivity is not confined to the "Y." Most student organizations have been deadlocked for one reason or another.
The SGA has been hung on its amendment to the Constitution since early last year. Little productive activity has been
accomplished in other pressing areas. The Union Board has been stifled with what some members have termed "dissension" within its
ranks. The IOF (Inter-Organizational Forum) has kept a low profile and has not informed anyone of its activities. The current
status of the 1974-75 yearbook further testifies to the apathy of students as well as student leaders.

The current trends at the polls attest to this inactivity. Election Board members claim that it is getting harder to
get volunteers to work the polls, that fewer and fewer numbers of voters are selecting our leaders (last election only
one-fourth of students voted), and that fewer people are running for office. In the 1940s and 50s, the Christmas fund
drive raised from $5000 to $6000. In the last few years, this figure has dwindled to $1300 to $1500. I
am not trying to indict either this year's programs nor the officers of any organization—time has run out for that
this year. Rather, I call for a revitalization of all student groups in the upcoming year. Davidson students have too
much to offer others to continue to selfishly hold back their talents for a future time. There is too much
to be gained by the community and by the students themselves to continue with the present inactive trends.

I am very glad that The Davidsonian has begun to question the activity of students in their own organizations, and
I hope that further analysis and appraisal will follow.

David Dickey '76
Secretary YM/YWCA
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night
will ordinarily be printed that week.
