Ske Bavidsenian January 23, 1975

Tribe, Gozinyas Win Again; Faculty ‘A’ Cuts Self

Back to live action in the IMAC A League, as C.A. and Y.B. continue to defy reason, that, we don’t make any sense. In an important game in Division II, the fabled Gozinyas defeated the on-the-rebound Delphic Bureau 66-51. The Bureau figured to be in the game with the recent return of Charles Bethea but the deadly duo of Chris Young and Marty (the Stick) Williams combined for 45 points to keep the Bureau piled up with paperwork. Reggie (Get Down Funky) Harding scored 20 in a losing effort as nothing would stop the Gozinyas.

Indians Down SPEs

In a grudge match, the rowdy Cleveland Indians faced off with their arch-rivals, the SPE’s. When the smoke had settled, Juan (Chico) Sanchez walked away with 30 points and the Tribe had an 87-42 pummel. It was your basic shootout at the Fantasy Factory as Rodgeman, Sanchez, and Duncan threw jumpers in from Mooresville and beyond.

Frosh Rise

Also on Thursday, Old Rooney, a leading contender to the Division 4 crown of the A League, was nipped by uppity R-II-A 47-43 as D. Thomas scored 21 points to offset Chris (Elder) Elys’ 18. The Roonies were without the service of the Big E but they have recently employed the services of that famed mass dog.

IMAC REPORT

SAE#1 behind the P and Yo-Yo who combined for 35 points crumpled a weak Savoy 68-30, in a basic pain in the ass game.

Elders Banished

Faculty A received their last cut as Bowie sent them to oblivion without end, out of the league. Rah-Rah Friars was miffed at the judgment and is reported to be in contact with the unspeakable Umar to see what can be done with Bowie. But the whole school is in contact with Sattanish to see what can be done about Rah-Rah. You lose, Rah-Rah. You lose Rah-Rah.

Women at Play

In a women’s game, the cunning runts of the Penthouse Sweets nipped the cream-filled Twinkies in a tight battle 22-8 as the Sweets won the women’s league outright at 3-0. A big factor for the Twinks was the coaching of John ‘Fringe Benefits’ Hornickel. Beetle beg fought a beach-ball-led PAX team 74-68 as Wags got 28. The Beach and Bill McKinnon got 16 for PAX as Beachy proved once again that he is the world’s wisest in '76? Wouldn't you rather come with us?

Penthouse A Romps

Penthouse A threw out Etc. 60 to 33 as they continue to be one of the finest fresh teams around. Martin and MacBade had 14 for the winners. So what? The Delts II warmed up for their match with the Tribe as they crushed the SPE’s, 95-74, behind 7-man double-figure scoring to offset Pee Wees 21 for the SPE’s. This is the best Delt team since this pair of deviants has been here. The Indians meanwhile jumped freshman hall Gnads #1 by a 92-29 score as Rodge had 29. The Gnads just could not put the ball in the hole.

Campus Burnt Out

If you have any funny lumps on your body you might have cancer; on the other hand, you may be a girl. To quote Wasted, who died kissing a Mack Truck, “Slater hurts and so does this column.” Davidson just ain’t funny anymore. May you always watch.

Last year over 200,000 students summered in Europe. And the travelwise flew on charters because it costs about HALF! This year a 3-6 week ticket to London is $512; a 2-3 weeker $597. And it’s $767 for over six weeks from New York. (That's what the airlines say now. Last year there were two unforecast increases!)

Murderer C.C. Emanon played PDT#4, they’re both worthless and neither are in A League, and John Stafield shouldn’t be in League B as he scored 20 points to lead the zeroes to a 44-40 win.

SPORTS

Chuck Kennon, Sports Editor
Frank Stiefel, Assistant Sports Editor
Jimmy The Freek

Not only do you fly with us at half, but you also have your choice of dates for 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 week duration during the summer. And all you have to do to qualify is reserve your seat now by sending a $100 deposit, plus a $10 registration fee. Under recently new U.S. Government regulations, we must submit all flight participants' names and full payment sixty days before each flight. If you take the June 21 - August 19 flight to London, for example, the deposit reserves your seat and April 15 you send the $199 balance. Just one price for all flights whether...you pick a week-end departure ($15 extra on the regular fare airlines) or peak season surcharge date, and you can just about...

Miller Touted For Tourneys

Last week, I was looking for subject matter for this column. Watching television Sunday, I found it staring me right in the face—Johnny Miller. Since he is making such a shambles of the pro tour, I think commissioner Deane Beman ought to begin a handicap system for the other pros. At least the tournaments would be close! Miller probably could give out a couple of strokes a nine and still win the tourney with a few to spare.

Because Johnny admitted last week that he was shooting for a sub-60 round, I set the odds on a 60 or less at 3-1 for the rest of the season. I also see him as even money of winning at least one major tournament.

I have been receiving a terrible amount of abuse for my national basketball comments lately. Well, Louisville continues to roll, beating Duke by 2 in overtime. UCLA loses to Stanford and many count them out of the picture. Not likely! N.C. State gets totally destroyed by Maryland and people ask me if I’m sticking to my State prediction like I did the Steeler one. The answer is no, because after watching them on TV, I feel David Thompson is over-rated and Maryland is much better. Maryland looks like they have a nice ticket to the finals as the East regional winner will meet the Midwest winner. The Mideast is by far the strongest region with Indiana, Kentucky, Louisville, Notre Dame, and Alabama involved.

As a result of having heard that many fans are in favor of Indiana to go all the way (and I disagree), I have decided to begin a students' Top 10 basketball poll. Most people feel that the coaches and writers that pick the AP and UPI are off their rockers, so here is your chance to express your opinions! Anybody is eligible to list their choices and I will compile them on a point system. (They must be turned in with the pollster’s name to Belk 162 on Sundays before 6 PM.) This will be called the “Davidson Intellect Poll” (Hereafter referred to as DIP).

We move into local action, where we find Rob “Gark” Canning as the early 5-2 choice to win the singles in IMAC ping-pong. I stuck this in here because I suspect C.A. and Y.B. would neglect it entirely. Even though Duncan expressed dissatisfaction with my entry into his literary field, I will continue this week with more fearless IMAC basketball predictions. The first crucial game appears tonight as I pick SAE over Derwood Derbies by 1. Contrary to what Y.B. says, the Gozinyas, the strongest team, should beat the Delt #2 team by about 10 this Sunday night.

To close out this article, I would like to mention to those that were actively involved in my fall football “card” that a similar basketball issue will be printed by the “Freek” at playoff time. For those of you that do not know what I’m talking about, well, I guess you’re out in left field!

Boycott Gallo wines.

Counselor Opportunities

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop to his or her fullest potential should apply. Camp Thunderbird, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C., is an A.C.A. accredited camp member, specializing in the water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white water canoeing, and tripping are extras in an excellent program. For further information write or call G. William Climer Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

Student flights to all parts of the Continent, frequent departures, and many at 2/3 off the regular fare. Charter flying is the way to go. So send for our complete schedule, or to be sure of your reservation now, mail your deposit for one of our 3 to 5 weekly departures from June through September. Just specify the week you want to travel and for how long. You will receive your exact date confirmation and receipt by return mail. All our flights are via fully certificated, U.S. Government standard jet and all first-class service.

REPUBLIC AIR SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL
663 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10088
800-223-XXXX (TOLL-FREE)

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
MEMBER FDIC