January 30, 1975
The Davidsonian

Nine

A Davidsonian Sports Analysis

Basketball Recovery Requires Desire

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE

There was a tradition founded in Davidson athletics by a man named Charles E. Dreisell a few years ago. It
concerned basketball...winning — basketball. Today, that mystique seems to be slowly fading away. For this reason, it is appropriate to
pause in the midst of a weary time with a 4-13 record to consider whether or not Davidson College can
ever rise to its former position among the powers of the collegiate basketball ranks.

Davidson head coach Bo Brickels, in his usually optimistic tone, emphatically affirmed the concerns implied in the above statement. “I
don’t think the question is whether or not we can ever regain our position,” he said. “Of course we can.
We just have to consider what it will take to get us there again.

“Before Lefty went to Maryland, he had put us at the top as far as national prominence was concerned. Then
we moved to a middle position where we were a winner, but not a power. Now we have lapsed into
the lower segment. So it is not just a question of moving from the middle to the top as it
was a year or two ago. It is a matter of going all the way from the bottom to the
top.”

Indeed, the road ahead certainly looks long. Turning to the method of attaining these goals, Brickels emphasized that the lack
of success this season rests on what he termed over-expectation. “I guess I was just blindly optimistic. Sure the schedule
is tough, and most of the teams we play are road games. But I think one of the most significant
reasons for our failure thus far has been that I have expected too much from the players. When this happens
and you lose to some real good teams, there tends to be a loss of confidence. I think this is
what has happened and it certainly seems to be my fault because I just expected too much.”

Having set the record straight as far as the lack of success this season, Brickels moved on to point out
the first key element necessary to bring Davidson back to the top in national prominence. “We have got to start
winning the Southern Conference Tournament again,” he commented. To make a point of how strongly he felt about the tourney
crown, Brickels said that he would trade the 18- and 19-win seasons of the past few years for the record
he has now, if he could have the tourney title with it. “It means that much. Because one of the
things a player really cares about when you go out to recruit him is where you were in March. So
you can imagine how valuable it would be to say that we can conceivably get into the NCAA Tournament every
year. A few years ago, we could say that, now we can’t, and it is a big factor.”

Since recruiting is probably the largest single factor in determining whether or not Davidson can return to its former greatness,
Brickels outlined the current situation. “Of course we are at a disadvantage in some aspects of the program,” Brickels made
a point in favor of the way things were now being handled. “There was a transition period which began when
Lefty moved. At that same time, other coaches moved to schools like Clemson, Furman, etc. Those schools started making things
happen. We didn’t move with them.

“I did not feel that the school was making the necessary commitment to basketball at that time. The consequences are
being felt now. But the situation has changed. At this point I can truthfully say that we are receiving the
commitment of the college for the basketball program. That will certainly be important as we strive to regain our past
position.”

So now the recruiting problem centers on something which is more intangible than academics or finances. Brickels explained it in
this manner. “There are three steps to be considered when you try and activities to be associated with a good
academic institution. Many, if not most, high school players do not know about academic reputations. One means just about as
much as another. Podunk U. sounds just as good as Davidson from their perspective.

“But one problem is life on this campus. And that makes it hard to...Sell the school to a prospect, when
he may feel he has to go to another town and/or another school to have any fun on the weekend.
“Of course we can assure him that the size of the student body means that he will get to know
most of the people. And he will become friends with some professors. But that is not as true as some
would lead you to believe.”

The recruiting problems become more apparent as they are considered on an individual basis. Certainly, there is a great deal
of hard work involved in getting good basketball players to Davidson. But Brickels appears ready to put the effort in.
“The coaches know what has to be done,” he explained. “We have already been in contact with more players than
ever before. The job is there. We just have to do it.”

The question of whether or not Davidson can rise to national prominence again is answered in one word by Bo
Brickels... yes. The key point which must be remembered is that it took five years or so to fall from
the top level to the present status in which the program finds itself. Brickels wants to be sure that people
are willing to wait that long or at least longer than a year or two before they expect to be
ranked in the country’s top five.

Brickels looked at the situation as objectively as he could and made an observation: “So we first have to sell
our product. And that is easy to do if you have a kid who is truly concerned about academics. In
that respect, we don’t have to back off from any institution.

“Then we have to sell the program. No doubt about the fact that this year will present a problem because
of our record. Other than that, though, you have to show the prospect that we can win, that we can
get to the NCAA, and perhaps most importantly, that he will have an opportunity to play. It will be tough
this year. But that is our job.

“The requirements for Davidson and the academic environment limit us to about one-tenth of the possible candidates that a school
such as UNC, N.C. State, and our opponents in the Southern Conference can talk to. But the academics are not
a barrier which makes it impossible for us to get back to the top. It is just something we have
to live with and work with to make the program go. I certainly would not blame the academic standards of
the college for the problems we have had this season.”

Turning to the financial aspect of recruiting a player, the first is having a product to sell. We can meet
this aspect because Davidson can offer the finest academics in just about any field a prospect may desire. Pre-med, pre-law,
and other things are easy to sell. The success of past players and the college’s acceptance ratio is certainly influential
for those who are concerned primarily with academics.

The next crucial step in recruiting involves selling the school on the basis of the campus, particularly the social life.
I think this is one of the weakest points about this school. Perhaps an example will explain my point.

“Consider a player comes to visit the campus, usually for a weekend. The players take him to a ball game
in Charlotte. Not that many students are there. They are not generally on campus on weekends. What do you do?
Take him to the Union? Funny. Take him to the movies? Back to Charlotte. A good place to eat? Tough
luck.

“What I am concerned about is the apparent lack of social life that tends to make sense, as well as
lend hope for the future. A few years ago it appeared that the backing was missing. To some extent, I
think that put a negative outlook on the situation from those of us in the program. Now that attitude does
not exist. We feel it can be done. That in itself is a big step forward. Because when you do
not think you can win the big ones, or recruit a key player, or get the finances and support of
the college, you have lost from the start.”
