December 19, 1975

The Davidsonian

- Laura Moses

Leading a dog’s life at Davidson.

Munce steps down, yields to Baskin

By BRAD SWALWELL
Senior News Editor

John Munce stepped down as SGA President at the Senate meeting Tuesday night after swearing in Bo Baskin as the new president. Baskin won the presidency by one of the largest margins ever recorded in an SGA election. Also, the Senate confirmed and Munce swore in all unopposed candidates in Tuesday’s election. Taking the oath of office were: Karl Goodhouse as Union president; Jack Golden as WDAYV station manager; Robert Mayer as social committee chairman; Robert Hutchinson and Sue McAvoy as Quips and Cranks editors; Matthew Covington as The Davidsonian editor; John McArthur as YM/YWCA president; Mark Scandling as YM/YWCA vice president; Marcee Morris as YM/YWCA secretary; and Katherine Morton as YM/YWCA treasurer. Baskin will swear in all candidates elected in Tuesday’s election at the first Senate meeting in January.

The Senate conducted a review of their activities over the last three months and Munce commented on areas of concern for the Senate in the future. “I see three big areas of concern for the Senate. These are areas which the Senate will have to watch very closely.

“First, there is our involvement with the formulation of the college budget. We have our foot in the door here and we need to keep it in.

“Second, we need to participate in the defining of the educational program at Davidson.

“And third, we have to work on understanding the governance system of the college so that we can use the procedures to our benefit,” said Munce.

Munce also stressed an attitude of cooperation between members of the college community. “We must be part of the community. But we must never be afraid to confront any member of the community. Cooperation does not exclude confrontation,” he said.

Baskin also had some comments on the Senate’s performance during the last three months. “If there’s one thing I’ve learned this year, it is this: The SGA can get something done, but it’s going to be done outside Senate meeting. Senate meeting is important, but it is not a substitute for good hard work,” said Baskin.

Also at the meeting, the Senate heard a preliminary report from Karl Goodhouse on a new set of Union By-laws. “The major change is the addition to the Union Board of two faculty members and two administration/staff members. This was done so that Union Board decisions reflect the ideas of all members of the community,” said Goodhouse.

As health hazards

By AMANDA HALL
Staff Writer

The stray dogs on campus will be impounded this week because they create health and safety problems. “The dogs have been a concern of house managers, Scotty Nichols and student officers since the beginning of the year,” said Robert Currie, the College Business Manager. “Now the Mecklenburg County Health Department is concerned.”

The County Health regulations have been changed recently; they now state the presence of pets in dorms is unsanitary. Dorm regulations forbid dogs in dorms, but, according to Currie, cannot be enforced because of the stray dogs. “Because the dogs have no homes students let them into dorms at night, where they roam around, leaving debris and making theHousing conditions unsanitary. "The lobby of Belk is the worst," said Will Terry. Both Terry and Currie think the majority of students don’t like dogs in dorms and think they are nuisances in general. The stray dogs pose a safety problem too; one might bite a student. Because they aren’t tagged, the strays probably have not been vaccinated for rabies. No student has been bitten by a dog this year. Currie said, "I feel it is the college’s responsibility to protect the students from this possibility."

Student officers, house managers, members of the college staff and administration, and Davidson Mayor Sadler met with Mecklenburg County Health official John F. Brunly on December 16 to discuss the stray dog problem. "There is no question about (See DOGS, page 4).

Jonas attempts to organize practical education course
By KARL GOODHOUSE
Staff Writer

Junior Wayne Jonas is attempting to develop a three-course program in group processes that would run for an entire academic year. In an attempt to "get people to have more control over their education and lifestyle, instead of having it given to them," the program would combine in-class work with practical education. The first term would be devoted to a study of group processes, in the hope that those involved can learn to cooperate within a group situation. In the second term, the members of the group would study the present and future needs of Davidson College. Third term work would be devoted to choosing means of implementation for those proposals and to an attempt to implement them.

Thus far, Jonas has drawn up a tentative course outline and syllabus. He is presently contacting students to poll their interests and professors to find a course sponsor. The main problem Jonas has encountered is that people are "interested only in parts of the course, which is valid, but tends to divide the series. This weakens it because the main goal is letting people learn how to function as a group without stumbling over their own feet." Jonas attributes this more to fear on the part of students than anything else. To commit oneself to the whole program will "take some soul-searching," he said. He also foresees a conflict with the administration over acceptance of the final course. By fall registration, Jonas hopes to have his program approved by the necessary faculty committees. He also hopes to have completed an overall course outline, a detailed outline of the first part, and to have solid commitments from student participants.

So far it has been totally Jonas’ effort. He has done little to publicize the course, "just talked to people (professors and students)." His immediate goal is "to gain a little more autonomy for individuals in deciding what their education will consist of and how their lifestyles will be formed." He sees basically the same long-term goal, "but as concerns whatever function one participates in--that is, learning what it takes to be in control of your life."

Cornelius, N.C. Thank you for your patronage, greene 092-5389

THE VILLAGE
Cards, candles, gifts
THE VILLAGE