December 12, 1975: The Davidsonian

Letter to the Editor

To the Editor:

The two warped replies to my letter in the December 5 issue of The Davidsonian are typical of the idiocy of the Davidson coeds and prove further what a true detriment they are to the campus. I see they still love to hide behind awesome-sounding phrases like “insane dehumanization” to express how deeply they have been wronged when the college fails to cater to them far out of proportion to their percentage of the student body (and certainly to their contribution) or, in this case, when somebody dares to say they aren’t as cool as they and a few desperate guys think.

I think it’s pretty disgusting to hear them wail about not getting a quite equal athletic budget and other such heartbreakers, especially since they’re not satisfied with such commodities as the increased lighting which everyone pays for even though they benefit only a limited and worthless few.

Let’s face it, most of the coeds are on an ego trip anyway. They obviously think they can get attention in an isolated, predominantly male place like Davidson where they’d be swept under the rug elsewhere, and it just hurts them to be reminded of the truth. The article on cheerleading (written by a coed) gives a typical example of what they want, since it explains their supposed interest in athletics, for they are the ones the article says “go to watch the cheerleaders.” They head out there in the hope of seeing Bill Vaughan or Ed Crosland prance around—preferably without too much on. I know full well that’s what they want, as their interest in the World Series recently showed them when a particularly pitiful bunch who couldn’t name the positions on a baseball team kept panting for Will McEnaney and Rawly Eastwick to get into the game.

That kind of nonsense, and such presumptuous attitudes as last issue reflected, point up just part of the tragic result of bringing coeds to Davidson. The other letter, by “the debate team,” does not deserve comment, since I hear it was written by some moron not willing to sign her real name.

Please, let’s get them all to Nairobi quickly.

Hilton Oliver ’77
Davidson College

Externality fades as Veazey arrives

By ROBERT L. AVINGER, JR.
Professor of Economics

Intelligent citizens are rightly concerned about the probable extinction of the ivory-billed woodpecker; DDT threats to the brown pelican, the freon haze that spray deodorants lay over our lungs; the cracking of the tundra and moose migrations that oil pipelines induce, tuna wars and, closer to home, the use of the Rocky River as an open sewer. What many fail to understand, however, is that a primary cause of environmental pollution is our unwillingness to define clearly and then to enforce property rights. Woodpeckers, pelicans, rivers, each of these resources, suffer too much damage because no person or group owns them. Stated another way, society has systematically encouraged citizens to ignore the costs that they impose on others: the private costs borne by the individual actor fall short of the overall costs to society. Pollution, sometimes called an externality, is an example.

Sewage dumping can flesh out these economic concepts. The private costs are usually quite low compared to the costs society bears. Downstream users must pay for water purification systems; shrimp eaters may ultimately pay a higher price for those delicacies. Most stream dwellers live downstream from someone; and though they may own the river bed, they do not own the water that flows over it. In short, riparian rights are poorly defined and the water becomes polluted. A proper remedy for the pollution problem is one that closes the gap.

By RICHARD BOYCE
Editorial Page Editor

The mention of money at Davidson is touching a sore spot. However, this spot is sensitive because of relatively unusual circumstances. Students at Davidson, if they hedge about financial circumstances, usually do so from an acute feeling of excess rather than need. Thanks to the “accomplishments” of their parents, many students are defensive regarding money. Obviously, this is not because of their financial inferiority, but because they are unsure in their justifications for their evident superiority. What one might call “unrelegated money,” an elsewhere vanishing species, is alive and well at Davidson. Enough of this idealistic rhetoric of our activist predecessors yet circulates in our minds to make blatant wealth socially unacceptable. Wealth yet demands...To be displayed, but it must be done in a “tastefully subtle” manner. A student is considered a peacock if he wears a coat and tie to class, while his slanderers carefully display their price tag-referring alligators on otherwise inconspicuous shirts. Students label the connoisseur of expensive wines a slob, but proudly boast their preference for Michelob rather than Old Milwaukee. Jeans are indeed intended to look sloppy, but only stylishly so. The key, as might be expected, is not so much modesty, as subtlety. True, the psychology toward spending money at Davidson has a long way to go before it reaches the painfully preppy stage of some other colleges. Yet, such a term, the concentration of such financial power in the hands of so few. But what remains even harder to justify is the trivial use to which the majority of this power is directed. Davidson students have been accused of apathy toward social concerns, of self-centeredness, and of distortion of priorities. Such accusations are difficult to refute. Yet, even so, some degree of credence must be given to the students’ pleas of lack of time. Perhaps, some honestly approach it as a token for later service to be rendered. But such pleas unfortunately cannot gloss over the relative apathy of the Davidson student toward financial charity. With few exceptions, enough money for a weekend party will materialize in minutes. The potential for giving is there. What this potential seems to lack is a sense of direction, a sense of purpose beyond self-aggrandizement. The YM/YWCA finalized, last week, its plans for the 1975 Christmas Gift Fund. This year, as two years ago, the collected money will go to the Davidson Community Day Care Center. This center, begun in 1969, is a non-profit organization providing out-of-home care for approximately 35 children, ages 2-5, whose parents work or go to school. Cooperating with similar facilities, it makes this type of care available to every child in Davidson who needs it. While funded in several different ways, such as parents’ fees based on ability to pay, the (See Y, page 13) between the private and social costs. This is called internalizing the externality. To continue the example, if an upstream sewage dumper is forced to bear the costs of purifying the downstream water, then the divergence between private and social costs would be removed and the optimal amount of clean water more closely approximated. As intelligent citizens, readers of this paper are unlikely to quarrel with these statements. Given this common understanding, suppose we bring the issue even closer to home and discuss the “sewage” that flows within our own walls. Property rights Not too many years ago, property rights to objects and to ideas at Davidson were reasonably well defined, and even money could be left in the open for days; dormitory rooms could be left open forever. Externalities were both infrequent and relatively minor. An occasional flooding of a dormitory floor, the stereo volume knob gone awry, or a smattering of clever graffiti in innocuous places indicated that pollution was not overly serious. If important externalities arose, property rights tended to be enforced speedily. Mutual respect appeared to be the prime mover, although an occasional bent Girard arm dealt effectively with the noisy externalities. The days of the clever, unobtrusive, transient externality seem to have ended with the arrival of Lex Veazey. Although memories of this campus celebrity fade, the void has been overfilled by a rather slippery character, chemically known as H3.9-O, whose fast-scrawling pen has opened a rather wide gap between private and social costs. Since property rights to prelaw notices, to travel posters from Greece, and to most other wall hangings are reasonably well defined, such graffiti pollution must stem from the poor enforcement of these rights. Other polluters have torn open sealed grade reports left outside a colleague’s office door. I understand that dormitory windows are being broken more frequently and that exploding firecrackers and common thievery are on the rise. Pollution solutions We conclude, unfortunately, that pollution in Davidson is no different from pollution elsewhere. I suggest also that the solutions must be similar. Private costs must be made to approximate more closely social costs through a better definition and a more effective enforcement of property rights. Several suggestions come to mind. First, the perpetrators can attempt to reduce the social costs by persuading us that these episodes are just little jokes. I am not convinced. Second, the private costs to the polluter can be raised. Expulsion from college would, of course, be quick and direct. Replacing signs at personal expense or (in one particular case) forcing the externality maker to live in a woman’s dormitory would, unbelievably, raise his private costs. (See COSTS, page 13)