December 19, 1975 —12— The Davidsonian

Kabat-Zinn Demonstrates Relaxing Results from Zen

By ANNE FICKLEN
Features Editor

The average conception of a yoga or Zen instructor is some sort of freak who cannot fit into American society, doddering on fast-weakened legs and tripping into doorways because of eyesight dimmed by over-contemplation of the navel. Others see a composite source of wisdom, truths, and helpful posture hints all packed onto one little mat. Of course, Johnny Kabat-Zinn, who lectured and demonstrated this week on yoga and Zen, fits into neither of these categories.

Kabat-Zinn’s background strikes a respondent note in many Davidson students. Far from being “some illiterate weirdo,” Kabat-Zinn received a Chemistry degree from Haverford College, a Ph.D. from MIT in microbiology, and was a professor at Brandeis University until 1974. It was while writing his Ph.D. that Kabat-Zinn learned the techniques of meditation; its relaxing effect allowing him to finish his dissertation.

Always bothered by the question, “Who am I?”, Kabat-Zinn began teaching meditation and yoga in his Biology classes. “I was really into Biology,” explained Kabat-Zinn, “because it was always asking the question ‘What am I’. But the scientists who were studying the life all around them wound up surrendering an awareness of their own life. Outside the lab, they were as petty as everyone else.

“It took me thirty years to quit wanting to win the Nobel Prize by the time I was thirty-five, and realize how important it was to understand myself. However, not teaching (at a university) requires a lot of finessing—you can’t eat while you're starving.”

Kabat-Zinn manages to finesse his finances by teaching at the recently opened Cambridge Zen Center, in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Though many students come to the center, Kabat-Zinn hopes never to see Zen taught as a university course, believing Zen should be private. Zen can function only as a constant questioning process; it would be impossible to bottle it up in a syllabus. “The path never ends, there is no goal,” Kabat-Zinn cautions. “You learn you're infinite, so how could you stop? All teaching comes from inside yourself. You’ve got the laboratory, you’ve got all the equipment.”

Recalling his academic experience, Kabat-Zinn feels, “You go to class and hear some art and then some philosophy, and then some history. Each injection of classroom knowledge seems almost to make you immune to knowledge of that subject. Real learning is rare in a university.”

But one should not study Zen in order to go and become a monk in the Himalayas; neither should one attempt to reach Nirvana through the discipline of yoga. Instead, both Zen and yoga are tools for understanding oneself, not the end process. They should be compatible with everyday life.

Tommy:
By JOHN KIRK
Staff Writer

I have some good news and some bad news. First, the good news: The Who are at last playing live dates following the completion of the “Tommy” movie. The bad news is that “Tommy” may just only be playing possum. I find it hard to remember exactly how long “Tommy” took to make, but having seen the movie I am moved to ask “was it really worth it?”

As I left the theater (my soul still intact) I was reminded of the words of famous British D.J. John Peel, who, when asked to pass judgment on Emerson, Lake and Palmer, declared them to be (and I quote) “a tragic waste of talent and electricity.”

This latest version outdid even the horrendous Lou Reizner all-star cast production (which for me was characterized by Rod Stewart limping through “Pinball Wizard” with, would you believe it, a choir singing backup) in terms of sheer overkill. This time only Roger Daltrey emerged with any kind of artistic integrity, finally to dispose of it in “Lisztomania.”

Perhaps the strangest thing about the whole phenomenon is that so many students come to the center.Life. Kabat-Zinn said, "Anyone who drops his job and family to rush off to a monastery is just going through a great escape. You should use Zen and yoga in everyday life. If you can’t find out who you are at Davidson, then you won’t find out in the Himalayas, or in a monastery. You carry your head with you," he continued. For Kabat-Zinn, yoga and Zen are not only compatible with an American lifestyle, but necessary for political activity. While at MIT, Kabat-Zinn worked to stop "pure" research which was being used for military purposes in the Vietnam War. From this experience, he realized that Americans need a greater awareness.

Much mileage has been extracted from a project which has never been more than modest in terms of "ideas." This is not to belittle Pete Townshend, who has never made any extravagant claims concerning his brainchild. The true culprits were the British TV and newspaper critics who heralded "Tommy" as the first rock opera (which is little short of laughable since the work has a highly dubious claim to the title "opera"). These critics were catering to a middle-class, middle-aged audience whose previous acquaintance with rock music was limited to "Hair" and who had no real commitment to rock music anyway. Townshend must, however, take the blame for the rise of the "concept album" (a contradiction in terms if ever there was one, since the average rock musician is incapable of grasping anything but the most elementary of concepts)—an art form of which there are some splendid examples. Witness the case of the group Camel, one of whose members, after reading Paul Gallico’s "The Snow Goose," was visited by the muse and "composed" some music which is claimed to have been "inspired" by the aforementioned work. Mr. Gallico was highly unamused, and, feeling only minimal intellectual kinship with this ambitious undertaking, took legal action. 

Then there is the example of one Mark Farmer (ever a heroic campaigner against social injustice in all its forms) who claims to have written a song all about the pressurant used in aerosol deodorant cans eating up the layer of ozone in the earth’s atmosphere, thus exposing humankind to harmful ultra-violet radiation. "Tommy" as a film was fine as long as the narrative followed Townshend’s original conception, but whenever the notorious Ken Russell took it upon himself to act as an interpreter of Townshend, things began to go astray. Russell, whose idea of poetic license seems to consist in using his films as a vehicle for his own fantasies (erotic or otherwise), has developed a characteristically hyperbolic style which in "Tommy" reached new heights in self-indulgence as Ann-Margaret (who, if Keith Moon is to be believed, landed the part by virtue of her immense mammary glands), wearing a jumpsuit which further accentuated her already epic proportions, is showered with baked beans. This memorable scene certainly made it on the level of masturbation fodder, which is probably ample justification by Russell’s standards, but unless my memory deceives me, it lacks a direct parallel in Townshend’s original version. And while I sincerely hope that the work is now dead and buried, I am still nagged by a fear that before too long some shrewd entrepreneur (Mel Brooks) will resuscitate "Tommy."

-Roger Grange

Thursday, December 18, 1975
8 pm

Friday, December 19, 1975
8:05 pm

Saturday, December 20, 1975
Basketball: Ohio State

Thursday, December 25, 1975
All day Christmas Day

December 31, 1975
All Night Cheers!

January 1, 1976
All day New Year's Day

January 2, 1976
All Morning Recovery

January 5, 1976
Bandwagon

Fine Film: "My Uncle Antoine"
All day

Neon Sculptures by Jerry L. Noe
All day

Display by Rita Shumaker
Christmas Recess begins

Classes begin

Love Stowe Gallery
Union Gallery
Columbus, Ohio