students criticize international programs

By STEVE PEEPLES * Staff Writer

Returning Junior Year Abroad students brought home both criticism and praise of Davidson’s International Education Office’s (IEO) foreign programs sponsored
by other schools. The IEO has had three directors in the last three years. Until this year, the office has
had only a part-time director.

Kathy McClendon spent a term last year studying in Montpellier. She was critical of the Office for International Education. Dr.
Frances Ghigo was director of International Education when McClendon set up her program. Ghigo worked part-time at the position. “I
think he did an adequate job, considering the position he was in. It’s really the college’s responsibility that there were
problems. They seemed to think that running IEO was not a full-time job, but it is.

“Ghigo tended to forget things. I had to do a lot of little things myself, like arranging for my passport
and visa,” said McClendon. “They (the IEO) really tried to steer me into the Davidson program. They should make you
more aware of programs sponsored by other schools.” McClendon said that she was not attacking the JYA program itself. “My
main point is the need for a permanent, experienced director sympathetic to student needs.”

Nat Harrison spent his junior year studying in Montpellier, France. He expressed general satisfaction with the program, but did have
several criticisms of the IEO and the program. “The IEO was too slow in providing information about passports and visas,”
he said. Harrison noted that he had left the United States earlier than others and did not receive his visa
before his departure.

Harrison objected to the expense of the program. “You could very probably get by on less money going JYA than
you spend in a year at Davidson. You need to realize that if you studied independently for a year in
France, your tuition would be about $25.” Harrison noted that the cost of the Davidson JYA program including round-trip transportation,
tuition, room and board, and laundry, is $4200.

Tim Hose, who spent his junior year in Marburg, Germany, praised the program. “It was the greatest thing we ever
did. I don’t think there was a person who didn’t say it was the best year he’d had.

“One really good thing was that the Office of International Education (IEO) didn’t try to force the American educational system
on the German educational system. We were sometimes in the dark about transferring credits, but it went very smoothly,” Hose
said.

Hose did see some problems with the JYA program. “One problem is that a given number of professors are still
down on JYA. This possibly can cause problems getting academic credit.”

Louise Thompson, the current Director of the Office for International Education, defended the IEO. She took over in a full-time
capacity after Ghigo’s retirement at the end of last year.

Gulledge adjusts magazine deadline

By DORIS PHILLIPS Staff Writer

The winter issue of the Davidson Miscellany will appear in early February. Editor Wayne C. Gulledge set the deadline for
entries in the publication at January 5. Heritage Publishers will receive the collection in February, and the books will be
distributed to the students soon afterwards.

“We know we’re running behind schedule, but we’ve had a mix-up with Intsy Prints. We hope to have the book
ready around the first of February,” said Gulledge.

Gulledge hopes the mailing list for the Miscellany will rise from 1400 to 1600 subscribers, and has instituted a program
of advertisement and notification which he expects will counteract the fall in subscriptions which has taken place over the past
five years.

The College Publications board met Monday to discuss the status of Davidson College Publications and to begin reviewing candidates for
editing positions.

Editor of Quips and Cranks Randy Hunter announced the signing of a $12,300 contract with Hunter Publishing Company. The delivery
date for the 1976 yearbooks is August 20, 1976. Although the first deadline for material is not until April, Hunter’s
staff is aiming to meet its first deadline during the winter term. The editor’s most recent concerns have...been the cover
design, paper, and partitioning of the 260-page annual. Hunter is also involved in a contract with Smith Studios in which
a predicted $900 will be involved. The studios will be at the College for a week in mid-January. Students will
have the option to buy color prints of themselves although their photos will appear in black-and-white in the annual. Concerning
senior pictures, he said he “must assure them we are ready, willing, and able to get their pictures.” The subject
of past censorship of the yearbooks arose. When questioned about the possibility of a necessary review of the 1976 Quips
and Cranks, Hunter said he was opposed to the idea. “This is a critical year,” he continued. “We have received
a large gift from the Stowe Foundation and we must use good judgment in formulation of the yearbook.”

Darkroom drain: Student photographers were left in the dark last week when the sole student darkroom was closed for Dana
Science Building lock changes. The College Union has no facility for photographic development due to lack of funds. Thompson sees
her role as “ar- (See THOMPSON, page 3)

-Leon Venable

Learning committee stresses evaluation
Senate corrects SIR form deficiencies

By ANDREW LAMAS
Senior News Editor

The “Student Course Evaluation” form, designed by the SGA Learning Committee, is now being administered to Davidson students. “We hope
the information we gain will provide students and faculty with some valuable information, not currently available through the use of
SIR forms, concerning courses offered in the Fall term,” remarked Learning Committee Chairman Roger Brown. “We (student senators and other
volunteers) are coming on to each hall and giving three course evaluation forms to every student. If possible, we would
like to have students complete and return the forms to us while we are still on their halls.”

The SGA Senate has made tentative plans to staff a table in the Chambers lobby on December 17, so that
students who were bypassed during the canvassing drive may have an additional chance to complete the evaluation forms.

“In preparing this questionnaire we sought to ask questions which we felt students would normally ask if they were planning
to take a course. For example, the questionnaire contains information concerning how many hours a week one studied for a
certain course and some indication of the course’s workload. We feel our form is something that students and faculty will
be able to use. We plan to publish the results and make them available to students and faculty,” stated Brown.

Members of the Learning Committee reviewed the SIR form and made the following criticisms of the evaluation instrument: “The form
is too long and too repetitive. We feel our shorter form provides more useful information to the students and obtains
the information in a less repetitive fashion.”

In addition, Brown thinks it is unfortunate that the SIR form must be completed by students before they take exams
and receive their grades. “If you’re evaluating the tests a professor gives, the quality of the exam surely should be
considered by the student. And, it’s unrealistic for the student to evaluate the professor’s fairness before the student receives his
final grade.”

The Committee’s final criticism of the SIR form concerns its suitability for Davidson. “We feel the SIR is not geared
to our Davidson situation. The SIR form appears to be one used by outsiders. Most students never even hear of
the evaluation forms again once they complete them. Our form is geared to what Davidson students want to know about
courses offered here.”

Brown also cautioned students that a complete evaluation of courses and professors could not be made in one term. “We
want students to understand that this is an experiment. In a given term, a professor could have received poor evaluations
due to such a temporary factor as a sickness. However, things such as whether the professor is open or dogmatic
should tend to be the same (throughout each term) and provide useful information to students.”

Committee members encourage the administration to read the evaluations once they are published.
