Eight The Davidsonian January 30, 1975

PO It ), The Davidsonian

Cat Matters Tumble To 2-5
Frank Stiefel

SPORTS
Chuck Kennon Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor

(Photo by Pete Goodman)
Red-handed
A Kevin Doherty basket is blocked by the goal-tending of a Furman player. Furman won the Monday night game 99-76.

Jimmy the Freek As Midwinters Takes Its Toll
By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

The Wildcat Wrestling Team went through an extremely demanding schedule in the past week. The team had four matches and emerged as victors in only one. The team defeated Lynchburg Baptist College. The wrestlers fell to Campbell College, VMI, and the Citadel. The team’s record is now 2 and 5.

Campbell 34-- Davidson 15
Davidson made the long trip to Buies Creek to meet last year’s NAIA Division 7 champions. The Cats managed to win only three matches against Campbell. Mike Dosal picked up a forfeit at 118, and then wrestled an exhibition match, which he won 14-4. Mark Scandling won his 150 lb. clash by the score of 8-4, and Jack Summe pinned Campbell’s 300 lb. heavyweight. Both Glenn Ballard and Rob Jacobs wrestled in close matches, only to end up on the short end of the score.

VMI 24-- Davidson 15
The wrestling team spent Midwinters at VMI. In the first of three matches last Saturday afternoon, the Cats dropped a close match to VMI. Brion Jacobs pinned his opponent, and then Jack Ballard and Rob Jacobs followed him.

AP, UPI Replaced By DIP As IMAC Top 10 Nominated
Here it is! What you’ve been waiting for--the first DIP (Davidson Intellect Poll):

(1) Indiana .................. 50
(2) UCLA .................... 43
(3) Maryland ............... 39
(4) Kentucky ............... 31
(5) N.C. State .............. 31
(6) Louisville ............... 29
(7) Lasalle .................. 28
(8) Alabama ............... 12
(9) Marquette ............. 8
(10) Southern Cal .......... 8

Honorable Mention: Oregon 7%, Notre Dame 3, UNC 3, Arizona St. 2, Oregon St. 1%.

If you think the above is worse than the AP or UPI, gripe to the following pollsters who compiled it: yours truly, Alan Edmonds, Bob Enright, Dick Stewart, and Mark Yow.

I absolutely refuse to pick any more ACC games. My jinx is getting worse than “Sports Illustrated’s”. I pick State to win it all and they lose, so I switch to Maryland and look what happens! I think I'll stick to predicting Davidson basketball, which shouldn’t be hard. Someone recently asked where I was going to fit in Davidson, now that I had started the DIP. One unidentified fan suggested starting a bottom 10. Come on! We did beat the Citadel by 14, who only lost to Furman by 1. Therefore, according to my Math 25 calculations, we should have beaten the Paladins by 13. Sorry, it somehow doesn’t work that way.

Congratulations are in order to Joe Duncan for hitting the Gozinya spread when the “Freek” didn’t. You want my job, Y.B.? Since I’m going crazy for polls, here’s a new one, the ITT (Intramural Top Ten):

(1) Gozinyas
(2) Indians
(3) IFT (with Combe)
(4) SAE #1
(5) Kerwood Derbies
(6) Delt #1
(7) Delt #2
(8) IFT (without Combe)
(9) Beetle Leg
(10) Six Pack

Since I’m writing this article Monday, and the crucial vote on Kirk comes Tuesday, I had to include both the third and eighth.

Union Changes (Continued from page 2)
a good concert we will still have money in the till to do something when we get them here. Until three years ago we hadn’t charged anything. “Then the students howled for us to get someone they knew. If they are willing to pay for some of it, we can dive into the till for the rest and have something,” said Smith.

The new Union Board administrated Midwinters, but the planning was done by the old Board. Although the weekend was only partly their creation, the new Board is attempting to use the input from it with thoughts for the future. “Midwinters was well planned, we had good attractions, and the people responsible did a fine job. The ideas were not our own, but it went pretty well. Spring Frolics will be ours,” said Wassen. “We will have a good, varied Spring Frolics with a variety of activities which will appeal to everybody. We want each big weekend to have a theme or a special attraction, something that has never been done before, something new,” Wassen said.choices. He makes a huge difference, but still not enough to dethrone the Gozinyas. With or without Combe, in the only important IMAC game this week, I pick the Thighs by 15 over the Six Pack. For you "Freek" followers or non-followers, you’ll probably be glad to find out that this columnist is on vacation this week, so there will be none of this bull next week. I’m saving a big pile of it for 2 weeks from now!

The string of victories put Davidson ahead 12-3. Mike Smith was pinned in the 177 lb. clash, but Bob Bennett kept Davidson’s hopes alive when he won an 8-7 decision. Jack Summe was pinned by VMI’s buzzsaw in the unlimited match, and Davidson fell to its fourth defeat. Coach Parker felt the Cats should have won the match, and he pointed out the crucial matches were 150, 158, and 167. The losses in these weights doomed the Cats. Mark Scandling lost his first match of the year by a score of 8-6. Bob Price and Ralph Holloway lost one-point decisions and VMI tied the score at 12 all.

Davidson 27 -- Lynchburg Baptist 19

After a short breather, the Cats were on the mats again. Mike Dosal started the Cats off on the right foot with a 7-0 decision. Brion Jacobs was outclassed in the 126 lb. match and dropped the decision. Glenn Ballard picked up a pin in his 134 lb. bout. Bob Jacobs beat his foe 9-3, and then Mark Scandling picked up his first pin of the year. Bob Price was the victim of another one-point loss in the 158 class. Ralph Holloway pinned his opponent and Davidson now had a 24-7 lead. This lead was cut to 24-19, as both Mike Smith and Bob Bennett were pinned. Jack Summe picked up a 4-2 decision to save the victory for the Wildcats.

The Citadel 40 -- Davidson 0

The third match of the day was a disaster for the Cats. The Cats were shut out for the first time in fifteen years. Captain Rob Jacobs termed this match "as one to forget." The grapplers take on the Catamounts of Western Carolina University tonight at 7:00 in Johnston Gym. Coach Parker is hoping to win the final four matches of the year and end up with a winning record. Parker feels that "strong performances could make the goal possible." Tonight will be the first test.

Boycott Gallo wines. Until Gallo lets its workers choose the union they want to represent them.

Wouldn't you rather come with us? Last year over 200,000 students summered in Europe, and the travel-wise flew on charters because it costs about HALF! This year a 3-6 week ticket to London is $512; 2-3 weeker $597. And it's $767 for over six weeks from New York. Not only do you fly with us at half (That's what the airlines say now. Last year there were two unforecast increases!) but you can just about have your choice of dates for 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 week duration during the summer. And all you have to do to qualify is reserve your seat now by sending $100 deposit, plus $10 registration fee.

Under recently new U.S. Government regulations we must submit all participants' names and flight details sixty days before each flight. If you take the August 19 flight to London for example, deposit reserves your seat and April 15 you send the $199 balance. Just one price for all flights whether you pick a weekend departure ($15 extra on the regular fare airlines) or peak season surcharge date. So send for our complete schedule, or to be sure of your reservation now, mail your deposit for one of our 3 to 5 weekly departures from June through September. Just specify the exact date you want to travel and for how long. You will receive your confirmation and receipt by return mail.

All our flights are via fully certificated, U.S. Government standard jet and all first-class service.

Charter flying is the biggest bargain in air travel today.

Saturday, Feb. 1 8 & 10:30 P.M.
D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
Woody Allen
Take The Money And Run
Love $1.00