the davidsonian

November 14, 1975

Getting the score: Cat quarterback Bill Wolar rolls in for a two-point conversion after Davidson’s first touchdown against Lehigh.

-Pete Goodman

Roundballers open season with fresh new appearance

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

The Wildcat Basketball squad will have a new look this year, with the addition of six highly regarded and talented
freshmen to the squad, according to head coach Bo Brickels.

The most publicized freshman is Tom Dore, who at 7’2” gives the Wildcats the “big man” they have been looking
for.

But the importance of the other five should not be overlooked. John Gerdy is a 6’5” swing man with a
style reminiscent of John Falconi.

Pat Hickert, 6’7”, is an aggressive and versatile player, with good rebounding strength and a good ten to twelve foot
shot. Tom Jorgenson, a late recruit with a quick, aggressive style, has been a surprise at point guard.

Jim Rice, 6’5”, is a quick all-purpose player who does many things well. Rounding out the group is 6’4” Art
Leahy, whose fortes are his outside shooting and defensive play.

Not only do the Wildcats have lots of new faces, some of the veterans are playing in new ways. Eppa
Rixey, who has been an inconsistent performer in the past, came back to school stronger and with an improved shot.

The biggest change in a player over last year is junior Marvin Lively, who was last year’s 13th man. Brickels
called him the most consistent player in pre-season drills.

Two other veterans, Kevin Doherty and Tom Verlin have both missed part of the pre-season workouts. Doherty has an ankle
injury.

Verlin contracted an illness which kept him in the hospital for a week. Both of them will see plenty of
playing time when the season begins. Senior guard Jay Powell will not join the team until December 1.

The biggest difference between this team and teams of years past, especially last year’s squad, has been the difference in
attitude.

“It’s been a whole turnabout,” head coach Bo Brickels remarked, when comparing this squad’s unlimited enthusiasm and last year’s team.

(See CAGERS, page 10)

Farrell optimistic despite 1-6 record

By BRUCE HOLIDAY
Staff Writer

Davidson football is ending another disappointing season in terms of the won-lost record but to Head Coach Ed Farrell the
season has been reasonably successful.

Currently 1-6, the Wildcats have repeatedly been soundly defeated and seem to have made little if any progress over last
year’s squad that finished the season with a 2-7 record. Farrell, however, is quite optimistic that his young squad has
the potential to develop into a much more competitive team.

“I think that the rebuilding program is moving forward even though there have been some disappointments,” Farrell noted. “We have
definitely lost some battles but we are winning the war although sometimes that’s hard to see for all the smoke.”

Farrell was especially optimistic about his team’s performance last Saturday against Lehigh. The final score was 37-19 with the Wildcats
coming out on the short end but Farrell viewed it as a partial moral victory against a tough opponent.

“Anybody who saw the game Saturday saw us play a very good team physically and we may even have had
an edge on them. In execution there were times when our offense played every bit as well as theirs did,”
he said.

“We will be a predominantly sophomore team next year and all the players are capable of having a great year.
It’s just a matter of how hard they work on getting themselves in condition during the off season,” he added.

Another aspect of his team that Farrell has been pleased with is the fact that despite the won-lost record the
team has remained a close unit, still retaining its belief in its own abilities and in the program itself.

Farrell stressed that although there is the potential for a much better year next season a lot depends on the
individual effort by players in things such as weight lifting and running.

Lehigh dumps Wildcats, Wolar kindles offense

By JANE PERKINS
Staff Writer

Despite their losing 37-19, the Davidson Wildcats played one of their best games of the season Saturday against the Lehigh
Engineers.

The Wildcat defense during the first half held the Lehigh offense to 10 points.

Offensively, the Cats used their familiar Wing-T formation and managed to trail by only 10-3 at the half, thanks to
Joe Duncan’s field goal.

The opening plays of the second half, though, proved to be the Wildcat’s downfall. The Engineers scored twice in just
a few minutes, once in a run by standout fullback Mark Weaver and again following a Bill Wolar fumble.

The fourth quarter saw Davidson freshman quarterback Wolar lead the Cats into the end zone twice. Combined efforts of quarterbacks
Wolar, Sid Osbourne, and Bill Winkenwerder added a pair of two-point conversions on the scoreboard.

A last-second pass by Lehigh quarterback Mike Riecker boosted the Engineer final tally to 37 points.

The Davidson players headed to the locker room amid a ten-minute standing ovation from the Wildcat supporters.

Senior Bob Sanders voiced the hope that this game will establish a tradition at Davidson. “I’ve never seen support like
this at Davidson,” he said. “The crowd gave us support throughout the game. I feel we exemplified ourselves as individuals
and as a team.”

“Although there is no such thing as a moral victory, I do feel encouraged after this game.”

RELOCATION SALE!!

(WE'RE NOW NEXT TO THE BARBER SHOP)

ALL $6.98 LP’S NOW $4.99
ALL $7.98 LP’S NOW $5.99
ALL TAPES NOW $5.99

CAMPUS RECORD SHOP
NORTH MAIN STREET

WOODSHED

DRAFT $.25

THURSDAY
COVER $1.00

FRIDAY
COVER $2.00 (LADIES FREE)

SATURDAY
COVER $2.50

LIVE MUSIC WED THRU SAT

WOODSHED
1105 NORTH MAIN STREET
MOORESVILLE

HAPPY HOUR EVERY NITE FROM 8-9
DRAFT $.15

WEDNESDAY
WED NITE IS BEER NITE - COVER $1.00
CANS $.35

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
