May 15, 1975

The Davidsonian

Fifteen

65 fewer freshmen self-select Court

By BOB HUSBANDS
Staff Writer

This fall, much as the past years during which the self-select Patterson Court system has been operating, freshmen walked through the fraternities and eating houses drinking beer and meeting upperclassmen. However, this year was different in that 65 fewer men signed up for houses, even though this freshman class was slightly larger than last year’s class.

While the number of Patterson Court signees decreased, the national fraternities on campus increased their pledge numbers in comparison with last year. The greatest decreases in signees come from the local eating clubs.

Dean of Students Will Terry stated, “I do not think this increase in the number of fraternity pledges is a trend back to fraternities. The number of freshmen electing fraternities is not dramatic.”

According to Terry, the drop was caused by two main factors. First, he said, “the court needed to make a more concerted effort in attracting freshmen.” He noted that last year many of the eating houses took large numbers of new members and were indifferent to the idea of a strong rush program this year. This indifference was transmitted to the freshmen during the orientation period and consequently many freshmen were not attracted.

He added that two eating houses did make a concerted effort to attract freshmen and increased their pledge classes relative to last year. “The fraternities always make a strong effort to lure people,” he said, and attributed the slight increase to a good orientation program.

Terry said, “The drop was caused by the overall state of the economy.” He explained that he thought students unsure of joining might be taking a more cautious approach, delaying a final decision until next year.

Charlie Robinson, President of the Patterson Court Council, said, “The drop was partially caused by the improved programs of the Union.” He added, “Increasingly people are finding a good social life outside the court. The increased numbers of girls on campus make dating easier and lessened the need for a social outlet on Patterson Court.”

“I do not think that fraternities are on the increase, but that the situation will remain.”

Money, orientation turn off prospective club members

By BOB HUSBANDS
Staff Writer

Freshmen gave many reasons as to why they had not selected into the Patterson Court system.

“It costs too much. Next year I can get by a lot cheaper. The food was not that great either. It’s a good place to meet people, but if you are an aggressive person or a person who likes to meet people you can do that anyway. I don’t feel like I have to join for a good social life,” said freshman Banks Robinson.

Freshman Matthew Horne expressed similar sentiments. “I’m not a fraternity man, and I did not want to spend all that money. Slater food is not that bad, and you can buy meal tickets at deflated prices.” He commented that he only used the court on big weekends. “I don’t feel left out. I most definitely feel you can have an active social life outside the fraternity system.”

Half of the interviewed freshmen expressed serious reservations about their decisions not to join. These students indicated that they might still beinterested in joining a Patterson Court house next year. These students expressed feelings of being "left out" in much of the social life at Davidson. 45% of this group or a quarter of the total sample interviewed felt that the rush programs were inadequate. They expressed a desire for a more thorough look at the various houses and suggested a protracted rush program. Freshman Fritz Haberyan said, "I’d like to know a lot more before I join. I don’t think the rush program was set up right. You have to make a decision too quickly. The rush program only allows you to look at three fraternities."

Freshman Sammie Steadman, unsure of his decision, said he wanted to look over the Patterson Court houses more thoroughly before he joined. "Money," he said, "was a big factor. I did not know whether I’d be wasting my money or not. If I join, I’ll join next year after I check it out more. The food is better than at Slater. I think you need the Court for a good social life. The Union is not enough." He added wistfully, "Freshmen halls are always tight. It does not matter this year, but next year it may."

"Better food this year at Slater," was the rationale Union President Richard Wassen used to explain the decline. He criticized the freshmen orientation program saying "the situation would have to be improved if the court is to attract more people." Wassen does not see the Union in a competitive position with Patterson Court but rather that the relationship should be a complementary one.

Hall Counselor Bill Reed attributed the drop to limited openings in some of the very popular eating houses. He added, "I sensed freshmen were more pro-fraternity than when I was a freshman. Some freshmen were intent on joining a fraternity." Many of the same sentiments were echoed by Hall Counselor Ed Willingham. "This was the year for fraternities," he said. Last year the eating houses attracted larger numbers of freshmen than the fraternities and this year did not have as many openings. "Fraternities this year needed new members to keep finances within reason and therefore made a strong effort to attract new members. I don’t think the slight rise in fraternity pledges represents any significant trend back to fraternities. Fraternities can only satisfy the needs of about one third of the men here," Willingham said.

Authorized Dealer Service and Sales
Radio SHACK
125, Mooresville

Draft Evaders! Don't want to go to Cambodia? ... Then come to exciting Montreal, Canada! See the 1976 Olympics! Get a chance to use that French you learned in high school! Save your legs for skiing! For reservations and information see Keir Cutler.

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030