September 19, 1975

Hopes to improve on 2-8 record

Farrell stakes hopes on wing-T

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

Despite a very young team, head football coach Ed Farrell is looking forward to his second season at Davidson with high hopes.

Last year was one of transition for the Wildcats. A new coach, a different system, and a lack of recruiting combined to a poor 2-7 showing.

“This year however, we have more basis for optimism and should make great strides,” Farrell stated recently. “We are pleased with our upperclassmen, they’re a group committed to our philosophy of football, and the freshmen are a good group both talent and number wise,” Farrell continued.

Davidson will enter the season with a new Wing-T formation on offense. The Wing-T is a versatile system which involves the use of a running quarterback. “It provides a great opportunity to bring four runners into the game,” Farrell said.

The Wing-T enables a more balanced attack and forces the defense to over-commit itself according to Farrell. The new system will place a heavy emphasis on deception and quickness in the backfield and sophisticated line play.

“A typical play starts with the fullback going up the middle, the halfback sweeping one way, and the quarterback the other,” said Farrell, adding that, “We will attack inside, outside, and pass.”

Hopefully, if one aspect of the offense is successful, the defense will over-react to stop it, thus providing a vulnerability in another area. This reflects a portion of Farrell’s coaching philosophy.

“We scored all our touchdowns by passing last year, but we never would have completed them unless the defense was trying to stop our running game.”

The only drawback to the Wing-T according to Farrell is that with an emphasis on deception and execution, the timing takes a while to develop.

“An execution-oriented offense takes time,” Farrell commented. It should be noted however that the ‘Cats don’t begin their season until Sept. 27 which should provide time to develop the necessary timing.

Defensively things are a little more predictable for Davidson this year. The defense which gave up 346 points in nine games last year should be able to enjoy more success this year. An experienced squad and only minor changes could make the defense a pleasant surprise this fall.

“We have more veterans on the defense, the ends, tackles, and linebackers are all experienced, the secondary is the only relatively untested part of our defense,” Farrell noted.

The defense will align itself in a 5-2 formation with a down noseguard. This defense is not very different from last year’s according to Farrell. The only innovation will be the down noseguard on the line of scrimmage.

“Last year we had a man in the same position, only he was standing up and was a few steps off the line,” Farrell commented.

“The noseguard is the key to this defense; he has to clog the middle of the line with his quickness,” Farrell added.

Davidson's schedule opens with VMI, and will provide a stiff challenge to the Cats. The Keydets are heavily favored to repeat as Southern Conference Champions this season.

“We're happy with this schedule; there’s no single team that’s untouchable,” Farrell said.

Cats lose by 3-0

(continued from page 9)

23 shots on goal after their second tally. A Madison wing penetrated deep into the Cats’ corner and forced Perz to charge out to cut off the angle. He centered the ball and it was kicked past Barringer for the final score of the afternoon.

Head coach Chip Stone was pleased with the performance of his club, despite being understandably disappointed with the outcome.

“We controlled the ball very well,” Stone commented. “We had many chances to score, one-on-one situations and good shots, but did not put them away.”

Madison does, however, have a strong team, indicating the relative strength possessed by the Cats. Stone noted that “this is the best team ever to play soccer at Davidson.”

On the schedule for the season, Stone indicated that the Cats have a tough road ahead. Upon being asked how many wins he could see on the schedule at this point, he replied that there was only one sure victory. The rest he labeled as toss-ups. Considering the overall strength of the team, Stone expressed pride in the defensive ability of the squad. “When Perz gets accustomed to our fullbacks, we will have an extremely strong defense,” Stone contended. “No other team should score as many as three goals against us.”

Prospects for the Southern Conference appear very good, in Stone’s eyes. Appalachian ranks as the pre-season favorite, while William and Mary has attracted some attention.

“Appalachian will be tough,” admitted Stone. “But we should be able to beat them.” He also noted that he did not think William and Mary could “stay on the same field with Madison.”

Davidson College Student Advisory Board

Joel Tew
Class of ’76

Emelia Stewart
Class of ’76

Carolann Connor
Class of ’77

Edward M. Crosland
Class of ’77

John O’Neal Craig III
Class of ’78

Please share your ideas about types of services you want with our Student Advisory Board. They help us serve you better.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY

MEMBER F.D.I.C.