November 7, 1975
The Davidsonian

Riding back: A Davidson back struggles to break free from two Wake defenders in Saturday’s 36-0 loss.

College subsidizes club sports boom
By DAVE KELLER
Staff Writer

The club sports program at Davidson is one of the best among schools of any size in this part of
the country, according to Assistant Athletic Director Tom Couch. Couch indicated that there are two reasons for Davidson having such
a good program. “One is participation. It is absolutely unbelievable the number of students here who participate in all sports.
The second reason is subsidization of the program by the college. It is amazing that a college of our size
and budget would give money every year to club sports,” he said.

According to Couch, the

Harriers take sixth place in Southern Conference meet
By MARK POSTOVE
Staff Writer

Davidson’s cross country team ended its season last Saturday with a sixth-place finish in the conference meet at East Carolina
University. William and Mary took seven of the first eight positions to win its tenth straight title. Furman finished second,
followed by Appalachian, Richmond, VMI, Davidson, ECU, and The Citadel.

Fred Borch and Coty Pinkney, the top finishers for the Wildcats, recorded the two fastest times over six miles ever
by Davidson runners. Borch ran 31:30 and finished 28th overall, taking the number one position for the team for the
first time this year. Pinkney was close behind, finishing 32nd in 31:45.

Borch brothers rival
“Borch and Pinkney ran outstanding races,” commented cross country coach Sterling Martin. “Borch forced the pace the entire race and
carried the team. I think it was fitting that he finished first for us. His younger brother was Furman’s top
man, so it was quite a day for the Borch brothers.”

For Holiday Season ideas!
The Village Store of Davidson, N.C. Brings You a World of Gifts

The remainder of the Cat’s top five all had personal best six-mile times. Doug Horn ran 32:40, followed by John
Barksdale in 33:34, and Steve Justus in 33:46. Zack Murrell, Jay Silver, and Bill Cole also ran their best times
for the year.

“Considering these times, I would have to say I was quite pleased with the team’s performance,” said Martin. “It was
an unusually fast race because of the course and good weather. I couldn’t have expected much more from them.”

Looking back on the team’s 10-8 record, Martin said, “All in all, they achieved what I had expected them to.
We would have liked to have won a few more of the close ones, but considering the schedule, I think
to have finished above .500 makes it a successful season.”

“It would have been tough to match last year’s 9-3 record, but I think this team, at least in the
top five positions, is as strong as that of a year ago,” he added.

“A book of verses underneath the trees, A jug of wine, a loaf of bread, and cheese”
Smith Circle, Cornelius

Pinkney finished first for the Wildcats in six meets, while Horn and Borch took the top position once each. Barksdale
was a consistent fourth, while...Murrell and Justus shared the fifth position during the season. Despite the loss of Borch, Cole,
and Barksdale, Martin is optimistic about next year’s team. “I think we’ll be strong again next year, especially if we
get a couple of good freshmen out,” he said. In addition to the return of Pinckney, Horn, Justus, Murrell, and
Silver, Martin is looking to freshman Ed Anderson and sophomore Dick Bochner to strengthen the team.

A shot at the finals

Borch will be running at Furman this Saturday in the Region III Meet, attempting to qualify for the NCAA Cross
Country Championships to be held at Penn State. “Realistically, I do have a chance,” Borch commented. “I’ll have to run
the best race of my life, improving my time by at least 30 seconds, in order to have a shot
at it, though.”

The college gives approximately $2000 annually to six club sports: football, ice hockey, lacrosse, rugby, water skiing, and women’s field
hockey. This gives each team about $300 each year from the college, which the teams supplement with dues from each
participant. Also, in the first year of a club program, the college will outfit the team completely. “When club football
began, we gave the team about $6000 of our own equipment. This loss has not yet been absorbed, but we
feel it was justified,” said Couch.

Next year, the field above the baseball diamond should be graded and ready for use by club sports, according to
Couch. “Hopefully there will also be some space in the gym for club sport offices and equipment storage.” Couch said
that besides the need for space, the club programs also need a good insurance program and better student organization. “I’d
like to see each sport have a chairman and a committee, plus a faculty advisor who is not one of
the coaches,” said Couch.

Couch pointed to the lack of attendance at a meeting last Tuesday to discuss financial and schedule problems with representatives
of the various club sports. Only four people attended, two each from football and ice hockey. “We want to help
the rest of the sports with their problems, but if we cannot get together with their representatives, we cannot find
out their needs. Hopefully someone from the rest of the sports will contact me before long,” said Couch.

According to Couch, football and rugby are the most popular sports in terms of participants and spectators. “Lacrosse and ice
hockey always have some following, but interest in them fluctuates, primarily due to their absence in southern high schools. Water
skiing and women’s field hockey are new this year,” he said.

Couch commented that there was no need to limit the club program to six teams. All students have to do
to start a club program is show a substantial amount of interest. “Personally, I would like to see club basketball
and women’s volleyball. But it is up to the students,” he said.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION SNACK BAR SPECIAL
6 oz RIB EYE STEAK
FRENCH FRIES
TOSSED SALAD & ROLL
$2.25
FRIDAY NOV. 7 — THURSDAY NOV. 13

CHILDREN BY CHOICE
COUNSELING & Family Planning
Birth Control
