January 16, 1975
The Davidsonian
Fifteen Wrestling Faces
By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

Wrestling at Davidson today is essentially the same sport developed by the ancient Greeks. The only major change in the world’s oldest sport is an insistence today that wrestlers wear uniforms. Ancient Greek matches, such as the one between Heracles and Diomedes, were contested in the nude.

There are two types of wrestling in the United States today. One type is the “folk” style. This is the style used in college and high school matches. The second type is the “Olympic” style. This style is used in world competition. The United States is the only nation that has two styles of wrestling.

The first Davidson College Wrestling Team was formed during World War I by Dr. Cummings. The team went through a series of coaches including Parkes Harrison, “Doc” Unger, and Tex Tillson until 1939, when Charlie Parker (’38) became the coach. Parker has been the coach ever since.

Parker is well known and respected in wrestling circles. He has been a referee at the National Collegiate Finals, the World Games, and the Pan American Games during his career. In addition to coaching Davidson, Parker was the coach of the 1964 Pan American Wrestling Team. He is now a member of the Wrestling Hall of Fame.

The years of wrestling at Davidson have not produced many team championships, but there have been many outstanding wrestlers graduated from Davidson. Since the inauguration of the Southern Conference Tournament, Davidson has produced a total of seven individual championships.

Davidson’s first wrestling champ was Howard McFayden. McFayden won the heavyweight championship in 1938. Harold Westervelt was another three-time champion. As a sophomore and junior, Westervelt won the championship.won the 157 lb. crown. As a senior, Harold moved up to take the 177 lb. championship. The 1967 team only had seven members, but Parker refers to the team "as the finest team he coached." These seven wrestlers produced a 6-2 dual meet record and placed third in the Southern Conference. Colin Sport won the 115 lb. class, and Lowell Byron won the championship at heavyweight in 1967. Keith was a sophomore on the 1967 team, placing third in the conference. In 1969, Keith, who had been a Virginia School State Champion, won the 190 lb. championship, becoming the first Davidson wrestler to win the championship. Several faculty and administration members were wrestlers in their school days. Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan was a wrestler at Franklin and Marshall. Professor of Mathematics King and Professor of Psychology Kelton wrestled under Coach Parker at Davidson. Professor of English Gill Holland wrestled at Washington and Lee University. Parker recalls that Holland and ex-Davidson football coach Dave Fagg used to be rivals. One year Fagg beat Holland in a dual meet, and then Holland turned the tables and defeated Fagg in the Southern Conference Tournament. 

In recent years, the wrestling team has been facing stiffer competition as more and more schools begin to give wrestling scholarships. Davidson can no longer compete with traditional rivals such as U.N.C. and N.C. State. However, the team still competes in the Southern Conference Tournament. In the 1973-74 tournament, Davidson only placed one wrestler. John Scandling ('73) took the fourth place spot in the 192 lb. weight class. This year’s team is presently 1-1 in dual meets, and when the tournament rolls around, the team and Parker hope to be able to place more than one wrestler in the top four of each weight class.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST CO
Master Charge
THE INTERBANK CARD

Card to Davidson students? Piedmont Bank and Trust Company. Is there a minimum age requirement? To the contrary, you will have your card for summer travel and we encourage seniors to continue to carry a Piedmont Master Charge Card wherever they go.

Why did Piedmont Bank design a Student Master Charge Program? A 1970 survey of Davidson College seniors indicated that students wanted a Master Charge Card. Piedmont Bank’s long and satisfactory experience with Davidson students assured us that our faith in the students was justified, and finally, it is the only service of our bank that was not being offered to students. We ask for your deposits and we should be willing to provide you the tool for credit! Piedmont Bank in no way encourages the student to use the Card for spending beyond his or her budget. We hope it will be a convenience to you and will cause you to use Piedmont Bank for checking and savings both now and in the future. It is also our hope that Piedmont Master Charge will go with you as you leave Davidson College.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
MEMBER FDIC