February 6, 1975

Catherine Gonzalaz (Photo by Leon Venable)

Gonzalaz Surveys Education

By VAN WILLIAMSON
Asst. Feature Editor

Catherine Gonzalaz, professor of Church History at Columbia Seminary, was the featured speaker at Tuesday night’s Vesper Service and also
visited several religion classes Wednesday. Gonzalaz studied at Beaver College in Pennsylvania before attending seminary at Boston University. Originally a
Home Economics major, Gonzalaz soon realized that her interests lay in her electives (Greek, Logic, History...), and so changed her
major to Political Science. After contemplating law school, she decided to enter seminary as one of 40 women in a
class of 300. This transition from an all-women college to a predominantly male-oriented institution was quite a “cultural shock.”

Gonzalaz stands very much in favor of all-women colleges. “There has definitely been a higher percentage of women who go
on to graduate school from women’s colleges,” she said. “At women’s colleges, women students receive more help, that extra push
and encouragement a student sometimes needs to help inspire her; professors HAVE to take women seriously, because they are the
only students. At co-ed schools, it’s the male students who are often given that extra push, rather than women.” She
expressed some regret that Beaver College recently became coed. “A women’s college provides women with many models to emulate, because
there are a greater number of women professors and faculty.”

When asked about what she felt the future of a ‘good’ liberal arts education to be, Gonzalaz proposed a “revamping
of the understanding of women and where they’ve been in history. This needs to happen in almost every field, as
it has in seminaries.” Gonzalaz did not, however, favor ‘women’s courses’ as the solution to a better understanding of women.
“They can too often and too easily become a ‘haven’ for women to ‘get their bearings’ and then go back
to the mainstream. We need a revamping of all courses so that they will become ‘normal’ and ‘mainstream,’ not just
an elective subject.”

Gonzalaz is also a scholar of Biblical History, with a special interest in the Apostle Paul, who has often been
maligned for “chauvinistic” statements about women’s role in the Church. She believes, however, that Paul is “better than his press
coverage makes him. Paul deserves a re-examination,” explained Gonzalaz. “Much of the cause for disagreement is actually based on textual
difficulties.” She prefers to examine Paul in light of his statements on freedom in the Book of Galatians. This agrees
with Gonzalaz’s position on Christianity and human freedom and dignity, and the idea that what everyone needs is a “new
sensitivity towards a great many things.”

Students Consider Responsibility

Tabloid To Include New Classifications

By JOHN WOOD
Staff Writer

A list entitled “Comparative Literature and Literature in Translation” will be included in the new courses of instruction tabloid this
spring, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) defeated a similar proposal
to include a comparative literature section in the 1975-76 college catalog at their Jan. 20 meeting.

“I don’t want to expand the catalog,” said Bevan. He cited reasons of cost as the major deterrent for such
an addition. “However, we can include this list in the tabloid, and we’ll make it conspicuous,” Bevan said.

“I am satisfied with this compromise,” said Professor of English J. Gill Holland, one of the supporters of the proposal
to the EPC. “I want these courses to be visible,” Holland said.

The courses now being considered include three from the Classics department: Greek Views of Man, Greek Drama in Translation, and
Greek Mythology in Art and Literature. Also mentioned in the tabloid will be Non-Chaucerian Medieval Literature, Chinese Poetry in Translation,
Scandinavian Literature in Translation, Latin American Literature in Translation, and Twentieth Century German Literature in Translation.

“Most people don’t know the definition of comparative literature,” said Holland. He indicated that comparativeLiterature involves the study of literature
and the arts, literature in translation, and literatures in the original languages. Comparative literature can be pursued as a major
only at the Center for Honors Studies, according to Holland. Bevan did not feel that the lack of a comparative
literature major in the regular college curriculum necessarily hurt students’ chances for entrance in graduate school in comparative literature courses.
“Comparative literature graduate students are not necessarily comparative literature majors in undergraduate schools,” Bevan said. (Photo by Roger Grange)

College Kills Project Housing Program
By BOB MILKS
Staff Writer

There has been for the past several years an official college “program house” policy which turned Grey House and North
Main House into student residences based on group programs. The college is now ending this attempt at residence programs and
the two houses will in the future be assigned to interested groups on the basis of the regular room lottery.
Grey House has contained larger groups and has been the center for more serious efforts at a program residence. The
house itself is one of the older houses in Davidson and was for years a faculty home. The Grey House
project this year is a study of the commitment of the college to the community. The present group has been
interested in determining whether or not the college has any responsibilities towards the Davidson community and, if so, defining the
nature and extent of those responsibilities. A series of discussions was held in the fall term on the project topic,
with representatives present from the faculty, administration, and community. These discussions clearly brought out the point that Davidson is actually
composed of three distinct components: the college community, the Black community, and the non-college white community; these separate groups co-exist
in varying degrees of harmony (the degree fluctuating between very little and relatively stable harmony). Both of the other two
communities are often suspicious of faculty members and students who announce grand social schemes, and the Black community feels that
the town has moved slowly in attracting new industry to Davidson, building low-income housing, and providing social services. The college
itself was rated a good employer. The general view, which was also held by the administration representatives, was that the
college does have a commitment to the community. Several of those present said that there was a tendency to talk
continuously of community action without much concrete action actually being taken, especially by the committees of the town council. In
the winter term, the present group compiled a survey, from city tax records, of available land that could be purchased
for the construction of low-rent housing. This survey was turned over to the town council committee concerned with the question
of low-rent housing. The survey was undertaken in the hope of advancing beyond the talk stage to concrete action. The
group hopes that its program will provide the impetus for further student action in this area, such as extended (See
COLLEGE, page 8)

Davidsonian Staff
Production Manager: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Production Manager: WILLIAM KENNON
News Editor: MATTHEW COVINGTON
Assistant News Editor: ANNE PELFREY
Features Editor: LARRY MIMMS
Assistant Features Editors: STEVE JOHNSON, VAN WILLIAMSON
Photography Editor: LEON VENABLE

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College
Associate Editors: DON BENSON, ANNE FICKLEN, CHUCK HARMON, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP, ERIC WALKER
Contributing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, JOE MCMILLAN, VINCE RABIL, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Business Manager: JEFF SICH
Advertising Manager: DAVID TRADER
Circulation Managers: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Staff Artists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL, PATTI SMISSON, BETH WIER
Copy Editors: CAMILLE CATHEY, SABRA FAIRES

Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all mail to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly
subscription rate: $6.00

Tennis Instructor Applicants
Need good background in playing and teaching. Salary averaging $150-$200 per week
Call (703) 548-2064
