“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in the image.”
--Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton, Editor
Andrew Lamas, Executive Editor
Larry Mimms, Managing Editor

FOUR APRIL 10, 1975

A house divided

Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White, attempting to implement the administration’s coeducation plans, has thrown the 1975-76 student housing arrangements
into disarray. White’s powers have gone unchecked for too long. His last-minute decision to increase the number of freshman coeds
not only oversteps previous college plans but places undue pressure on Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls. Nicholls cannot be
expected to manage properly the process of room assignments unless she receives from White the final number of freshmen of
both sexes who will be enrolled next year.

It was not until Good Friday that Nicholls was informed by White of the change in college policy concerning the
projected number of females (110) and males (257) in the Class of ’79. Only a week before, White assured Nicholls
that the entering freshman class would include 92 females and 270 males. How can Nicholls make proper dormitory assignments if
the figures with which she is working do not remain constant from week to week? Although the director of student
housing plays an important role at this institution, Nicholls’ decisions may be rendered impotent if she is not afforded the
respect which she deserves from her fellow administrators.

Displaced students

The surprise move to increase the number of freshmen women in the Class of ’79 left the director of student
housing solely responsible for adjusting hall and dormitory arrangements for students. This year, as in the past, some male students
have been displaced from their rooms in order to make certain halls available for coeds. Such rearrangements are usually desirable
and necessary. Yet to deny a displaced student reasonable compensation is unjust. In past years, displaced students have had their
choice of any other available rooms on campus. The student housing director has apparently abandoned this procedure this year. We
feel that in the interest of equity, such a system should be restored. We call on the Residence Hall Council
to consult with Housing Director Nicholls. We look to the council to find some compromise which will protect the rights
of students displaced by last-minute administrative decisions.

Perish or publish

Davidson College publications are curiously the victims of a perish and publish situation. While the members of the Communications department
strain to process and print the vast amount of material passing through their office, they fail to have sufficient time
to get news about Davidson in the national media. Insufficient typesetting and copying equipment demand much valuable time of Director
of Communications Martha Byrd and News and Photography Director Earl Lawrimore. They are entangled in a production schedule which leaves
them little time to write the caliber articles necessary for national media publication. Purchase of offset phototypesetting and paste-up would
free the professional staff to pursue more intricate layout design, writing, graphics, editing, and management. Accordingly, Davidson College might have
a broader reputation than evidenced by the following three major national news stories featuring the school: the Associated Press accounts
of the censorship of the Quips and Cranks, the Wall Street Journal front page story of mildly unethical fund-raising, and
the AP story of the dedication of the library book drop to a bogus alumnus.

Davidson’s reputation in the national media obviously leaves something to be desired. We sense the irony of our recommendations when
The Davidsonian itself is plagued with myriad production problems. Yet we feel that Davidson College will only get the kind
of news coverage it deserves through a more...Aggressive and professionally-oriented communications department. Davidson needs honest smiles for inspiration: Gus Succop

Many of us here at the Academy have at one time or another heard the publicity recording for Davidson College.
It goes something like this: "Davidson College, founded in 1836 by distraught Presbyterians..." and on it goes, expounding on the
college’s pros and cons of the Princeton of Mecklenburg County. Most small colleges need a strong publicity act like ours
in order to attract students from all around the country, and the world. Schools with the ivy foliage image invest
in embossed stationery to get the job done. Davidson needs more than embossed stationery to advocate its superb academic heritage
and social curiosity.

The average wildcat student is harassed, mentally, by the fact that he must actually work for his “C” or “B”,
while his drinking pals at the other brain-killers of academic America work their way to hangovers and a college degree;
sometimes all of 102 degrees. What is the need for that strong publicity act here at Davidson? Surely to attract
potential payers of our tuition so the college can invest in all sorts of academic “Vietnams.” But more than that,
so that America can know about the weaning ground of Woodrow Wilson, Dean Rusk, and other great literary figures. Once
here, we are told to add to the “academy’s” greatness, never subtract. The overall educational ingredient is what you, the
student, put into the Davidson system.

However, the Davidson student needs inspiration for his input. Or, if you like, let’s have some of that good old
Princeton snow for the snowball effect. But where is that inspirational snowy glitter? Davidson has inspiration, and don’t you ever
forget it. On Patterson Court, we possess the South’s most typical eating club and Greek-oriented system. Enthusiasm for the system
that swims in two ponds plus one creek has been written up and discarded numerous times by prominent magazines, like
the Update.

Davidson athletic society not only has the A.M.A. athlete’s foot seal of approval, but it also encourages team sports like
football, basketball, squash, volleyball, fencing, bowling, water-skiing, baseball, and others. The college social system, not to be confused with the
eating club system, was enhanced this year by the erection of the E.H. Little Library of Congress. In addition, the
college also owns a temporary Student Union. But the most prominent feature is the abolishment of all-male bingo, and the
installment of co-ed cards.

Davidson could offer a lot more for inspiration. But the expense of offering a four-course meal—academics, athletics, social life, campus
life—would drive the cost of attending the “academy” sky high. But, wait. I’m willing, and so are others, to revise,
cut costs, cut throats, etc. For example, if the social system at Davidson really hurts, which it does, then let’s
revise it. (How many times has a professor told you to revise that paper because it hurt? I thought so.)
Let’s have two systems, one fraternal, one eating club. Denying one system is denying some wildcats of something important—freedom of
association.

Davidson needs inspiration more than it does clean sheets. Davidson needs to attract students by smiling an honest smile, not
a smirk.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night
will ordinarily be printed that week.
