*Conference game*

March 27, 1975

Inexperienced sailing crew
Cats lose home regatta

Ruggers oppressed at tourney

By JEFF MORROW
Staff Writer

The last of the ‘true art form in sports’ club traversed back from the Chapel Hill Rugby Tournament (Golgotha to its participants) to the campus grimacing as they told the tragic tale of the referee exploitation during the 10:30 a.m. and the 2:30 p.m. matches.

Fiery-breathed Mark Armstrong screamed, “Why must all the wrongs of the universe befall upon our souls?” Receiving no answer, he stalked away, but smiled slightly at the bruise on his left forearm where he had accidentally - on purpose clobbered the referees, rumored to be on Wake Forest’s and Duke’s side.

In the first game against Wake Forest, Davidson’s Chris Young, noted scientist and athlete, displayed excellent footwork in the muddy conditions. His winged-feet movement resembled very closely that of Perseus, as he scored the first try, giving Davidson a four-point advantage. The field goal attempt was missed by Bob Schermer.

The game was momentarily stopped to carry Steve Rainwater off the field because the swelling from his sprained ankle was obstructing the field. Wake Forest scored a try in the last ten minutes of the game making the score 4 to 4.

The field goal attempt was called “no good” by line judge Joe Craig, but “good” by the referee. Total score after the game was Davidson-4, Wake Forest-4, and Referee-3.

Duke’s “gray wolf”, a forty-year-old rugby veteran, plotted the overthrow of the match with the afternoon referee, a seemingly extremely ignorant and dull-witted specimen of humanity. The two then interjected new rules to the game as we played.

Victor McMillan was taken out of the game with a shoulder injury. But the psychological advantage for Duke was quickly leveled by the Malignant McKenzie and the Powerhouse Prospere.

While attempting to pass off to Jud Cultino, Pete Alford took a crippling blow to his left knee, but still insisted on playing.

In the second half of the game Duke scored and made the field attempt making it 7-0.

The keen sight of the Ruggers was stifled as a strong thunderstorm concentrated itself on the field. There was so much lightning that Sheldon Parker had to be given rubber shoes because his height was a danger to the other players.

The muddy conditions hindered “hard-ass” Al Williams’ moves and the whole game slowed down to the level of a mud fight.

Sublime Stick and gnashing Naslund helped spark the team with their quick hits, while bold Benfield and conducive Cook showed willingness to administer proper push in the scrum.

Shooters finish season with seven match wins

By CHARLES KENNON
Sports Editor

After posting a 7-3 regular season record, the Davidson College Rifle Team participated in the Southern Conference Tournament on Saturday, March 19. Davidson finished fifth out of eight teams in the match.

“Certainly I wish we could have finished higher in the match but I’m pretty satisfied,” Captain Abel White of the R.O.T.C. Department stated. The rifle team advisor explained that Appalachian State, who finished first in the tourney, is ranked third in the nation. Davidson is ranked 74 out of 302 teams in the nation.

White continued, “These other teams have full-time coaches and stress shooting. Everyone on our team performed in an outstanding manner.” The top five Cat shooters at the match each shot above 500 out of 600 possible points. The total team score was 2547 out of 3000 points.

The high scorer for Davidson was senior Bob Anders with a 524. Next was freshman Tom Miller with a 515 and sophomore Ben Simms with a 505.

“We return almost all our best students for next year. I won’t be returning next year but whoever manages it should have the basis for an excellent team,” White said. He is being reassigned to Germany this summer.

White concluded by saying that Dallas Kirkendal was voted the team Most Valuable Player by the coach and team members.

The game ended Davidson-0 and Duke-7.

The team was overwhelmed by the heavy weight of the idea that corruption was beginning to come into the last stronghold of “true sport”.

But when they heard the words of John Henry Newman, a new enlightenment flourished in their hearts; “the palaestra, in ancient times like in the Olympic games, in which strength and dexterity of body as well as mind gained the prize.”

Francis and Chuck Barrineau crewed the Davidson and Phil Cain in the B Division boat.

“Our team is just inexperienced. We’re competing against people who’ve been sailing for 10 or 15 years,” said Francis.

Eight races were sailed at the Charleston regatta, four by Division A sailors and four by Division B sailors.

“During the regatta, our inexperience in the strong Charleston tides (at the Citadel meet) caused us severe problems,” remarked Francis. “Unfortunately, we attended the Charleston regatta with less preparation than we desired.

“Because of all the rain we had no practices before the regatta,” said Francis.

Bill Beasley was elected team commodore and Tommy Lee was named team treasurer in recent elections of the sailing squad.

The sailing team has planned seven regattas during spring term.

The Davidson sailing team will meet Duke on March 29.

SPRING CLEANUP
by the Harper & Row Salesman

10% OFF

Harper Torch Books
Perennial Library
Discontinued titles

THE STUDENT STORE

Davidson
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA 28036

First Union National
DAVIDSON