March 20, 1975
The Davidsonian

Seven

Dylan Leaves ‘Blood On The Tracks’

By RUSSELL CARTER
Staff Writer

Bob Dylan’s new album, “Blood on the Tracks,” is definitely the most powerful and personal work of art he has
recorded in several years. Dylan is writing stories about himself again, full of allusive symbolism and rich imagery, in which
he explores the past experiences that have molded his consciousness and created for him periods of both pleasure and pain.
Musically, he relies chiefly on his own voice (which is richer and more confident than ever), his acoustic guitar, and
his harmonica to convey his emotions and imagery.

The overall picture represented in the album is one of a lone individual who has struggled to establish a permanent
loving relationship in this world, but has persisted. He is now painfully and at times bitterly “tangled up in blue.”
One can grasp the importance of this album best by viewing it in relationship to the last six Dylan albums,
excluding the Columbia outtake and soundtrack albums. So, briefly, we must consider Dylan’s work starting with his ninth album, “John
Wesley Harding.”

The main theme in J.W.H. is one of self-discovery. Evident in the series of parables Dylan created is his rejection
of the roles he had played in the past (e.g. political activist, social protester, drug crusader, modern-day Christ...), for, as
he wrote in “All Along the Watchtower,” “let us not speak falsely now, the hour’s getting late.” He seemed to
be saying that life is too brief to be wasted worrying about society’s delusions. He then writes of a new
faith he has found which he expresses with deceptive simplicity in love songs such as “Down Along the Cove.” As
Anthony Scaduto points out in his Dylan biography, the message at the joyful end of J.W.H. seems to be that
“only within love can man deal with a depth of reality that is akin to faith.”

In a series of songs celebrating love beginning on “Nashville Skyline” and continuing through “Planet Waves,” Dylan underlines this basic
concept. On “Nashville Skyline” and “Self Portrait” there is not the slightest hint of bitterness in Dylan’s voice, and he
is pictured as a happy and healthy country gentleman. In 1970, Dylan recorded “New Morning.” The general tone of this
album is one of optimism based on his everlasting love affair with his wife Sarah whom he praises in songs
like “If Not For You.” But for the first time in years, Dylan appears to question his happy existence. In
“Sign on the Window” he draws a picture of a happy family situation and then sings in a definitely questioning
tone, “That must be what it’s all about.” In “Three Angels” Dylan wonders why people seem to ignore the voices
of the angels—an inner spiritual reality. It is his first comment on mankind’s blindness since 1967.

In 1971, Dylan released Volume II of his greatest hits. This action, coupled with his Bangla Desh concert appearance (in
which he sang many old protest songs) and his major tour in 1974 (in which he sang songs from “Before
the Flood” or pre-1966) suggested Dylan was becoming dissatisfied with his secluded life with his family. In his 1971 single
release “Watching the River Flow,” Dylan almost comes right out and states his dissatisfaction. The lines “wish I were back
in the city, instead of on this bank of sand” seem to imply that he was ready to shift positions—to
be freewheelin’ once again. Certainly the reference to sand suggests impermanence.

But then in “Planet Waves” Dylan reconfirms his faith in Sarah, the one person who gives his life meaning. In
“Wedding Song” he sings “ever since you walked right in the circle’s been complete.” And his love is one that
“doesn’t cease” and “will not bend.” In several songs, however, he does comment on the decrepit state of western society,
as in “Dirge” when he sings:

So sing your praise of progress.
And of the doom machine.
The naked truth is still taboo
Whenever it can be seen.

This criticism is continued on “Blood on the Tracks” in the song “Idiot Wind” in which Dylan’s voice is filled
with beautiful “Blonde on Blonde” bitterness. He sings of an American Wasteland through which an idiot wind blows “like a
circle around my skull / from the Grand Coulee Dam to the Capitol.” To Woody Guthrie the dam was a
symbol of our country’s greatness. Now when Dylan speaks of America and “all its ragin’ glory,” his words drip with
sarcasm.By the end of the song, Dylan begins to include himself in his criticism. He sings, “We are idiots babe
/ It’s a wonder we can even feed ourselves.” It seems that the winds have gotten to Dylan, even past
the security of his once guarded family life.

In “Wedding Song” Dylan had sung that because of Sarah he could “say good-bye to haunted rooms and people in
the street,” but now on “Blood on the Tracks” he sings of her offering him “Shelter From the Storm” in
the past tense. Suddenly, Dylan is singing of “old men with broken teeth stranded without love” and of the “one-eyed
undertaker who blows a futile horn.” “Now there’s a wall between us,” he sings, and obviously, “something has been lost.”
Dylan recognizes now that “beauty walks a razor’s edge (but still hopes that) someday I’ll make her mine,” but this
seems as futile as his wish that he could “turn back the clock” to the innocence of time “when God
and her were born.”

In “You’re Gonna Make Me Lonesome When You Go” a happy voice describes a new love he’s found. Dylan describes
something powerful he has going now that humbles the world outside around him even if it does resemble the terrifically
ugly one he described in the mid-sixties (when he was influenced by the French Symbolist poets like Rimbaud).

Situations have all been sad. Relationships have all been bad. Mine have been like Verlaine and Rimbaud. But there's no
way I can compare All those scenes to this affair...

One can tell by the tone of his voice and by his playful harmonica notes that Dylan’s enjoying every minute
he has with his girl. It is clear, however, that he knows that, in this world anyway, he can experience
only glimpses of this feeling, embodied in relationships with various people in unknown places and at unpredictable times. We can’t
escape sharing his mixed emotions when he admits to himself that this affair will fade away and all he can
do is:

Look for you in old Honolulu San Francisco or Ashtabula You’re gonna have to leave me now I know but
I’ll see you in the sky above In the tall grass In the ones I
