January 16, 1975

The Davidsonian

Nine (Photo by William Kennon)

By VINCE RABIL
Contributing Editor

Davidson Exhibitions will be displaying sculptures by one of the Southeast’s leading sculptors, John Kehoe, until January 29th. A Professor of Art at the University of Georgia, Kehoe has become an authority on bronze casting. The main subject of his Gallery Talk last Thursday dealt with cire perdue or the lost wax process of casting bronze. Kehoe is quite concerned that the craft of cire perdue may be becoming a lost art. He pointed out that foundries all over Europe which still employ this ancient technique are closing.

Irwin Allen and John Guillermin’s “Towering Inferno” gives Fred Astaire and Jennifer Jones something harmless to occupy themselves with now that his dancing career is over and her box-office appeal has dwindled to what it always should have been. However, William Holden and Paul Newman, who can act, deserve better. Mark Robson’s “Earthquake” is hardly an innocuous movie, but it does offer the sight of Ava Gardner at age 52, and she is a woman worth keeping our eyes on at every stage of her life. She looks like a great actress, which must put her at least a third of the way toward actually being one.

Unlike Robson, Guillermin, who directed the allegedly “dramatic” sequences in “Towering Inferno,” does not seem to have encouraged his actors to embarrass themselves, although the ones among them who are sensitive to the differences between a good script and a rotten one seem miserable all the same. There are no dreadful performances in “Towering Inferno;” there are at least half a dozen in “Earthquake.” Strangely enough, Steve McQueen and Walter Matthau seem to thrive on disaster garbage; McQueen is competent as usual in “Towering Inferno” while Matthau works a hilarious cameo turn in “Earthquake.”

To make a disaster movie about devastation is to indulge in more unity of form and content than is strictly necessary. Frenzied movies about frenzy, romantic movies about romanticism, erotic movies about eroticism, violent movies about violence, and frightening movies about horror I can understand, but disastrous movies about devastation are a breach which even my rambling aesthetics cannot embrace. “Earthquake” does not manage to be perfect even in its awfulness—unlike another recent movie about devastation, “Chosen Survivors,” which manages to find some integrity on that level, as a seeming experiment in badness. At first, “Earthquake” promises to be the most offensive movie since “The Exorcist,” but a few redeeming qualities mitigate the effect, and my choice for rudest film of 1974 must remain with “Memories Within Miss Aggie.” “Babe” merits an honorable mention, however, along with “Airport 1975,” a film I am especially peeved with because I happen to respect Gloria Swanson.

The worst folly of “Earthquake” is its “sensurround,” a process which makes the viewer’s diaphragm and ribs vibrate and his ears ache, and accordingly leaves him feeling sickish afterwards. The greatest compliment I can pay to “Raw Meat” is to report that when I stood up to leave at the end, I felt like I was going to have to vomit. The suspense was so strong and the horrifying jolts so jolting and the make-up so convincing that the film had a physical effect upon me, but it did this through aesthetic means, which are very dear, rather than physical ones, which are cheap by comparison. “Earthquake” cheats by going straight to the viewer’s abdomen and ears, while ignoring his emotions. The film is most alienating when it tries most desperately to be involving—when it chunks down monstrous noises from speakers specially installed in the theater for the purpose. As an acquaintance of mine has observed, “the projectionist doubles as machine-gunner.” Seldom have I been so tempted to walk out of a movie."Earthquake" isn’t satisfied with boring the viewer; it must also make him physically uncomfortable. In theory, I suppose most any subject matter ought to have potential for being done well. Perhaps I should try to conceal my prejudices against movies about devastation, but when I ask what kind of director or writer could be attracted to material of this kind, the current influx of examples does not indicate a very reassuring answer. Needs within the more unstable members of the film-going public—of course, I speak here of the beaten majority—rather than within artists call forth movies about earthquakes, plagues, and bombings, so that the resulting works are at best dreary should come as no surprise. In "Juggernaut," Richard Lester, the only reputable director of late to allow himself to be dragged into one of these things, is almost completely overwhelmed by the banalities of the project, as are most of the members of his cast. This cast is not one of your democratic conglomerations of anyone with a name and a latent desire for an Oscar nomination, like the cast of "Earthquake" or "Towering Inferno," but a solid and pleasant cast. Although Allen and Guillermin do fairly well by "Towering Inferno," there is little reason to suppose they should be working in movies at all, much less in the disaster genre. If they have any genuine interest in disasters, they lack the talents necessary to express it. In allowing every decision to be made on the basis of what the public wants, Allen has made a film that is false and hideous in its center. His vitality as a producer is rather awe-inspiring, and one wishes it could someday be harnessed into the service of a director with vision and talent. This, however, is not likely to happen.

By JOE MCMILLAN

(Photo by William Kennon)

However, he hopes that schools and institutions such as the University of Georgia in Athens will be able to preserve the art by building and maintaining their own foundries. Kehoe presented slides during his talk which actually showed his work being cast by the lost wax process at foundries in Italy. Some of these are on display. They are generally hollow cast. Kehoe believes that the tactile sense is a very important element in the appreciation of his work and encourages all viewers not to hesitate to feel each piece; to notice the texture, the temperature, the mass; and to enjoy the work’s three-dimensionality. What is Kehoe’s sculpture about? They are abstract and highly conceptual, but are they successful? Kehoe’s sculpture is abstract, it is successful in many ways, and is highly communicative with the viewer. It has been said that the structural patterns of all successful art may be found existing in nature on a microscopic, macroscopic, or human level of perspective. The structural key to Kehoe’s work for the most part (this is not always the case) is the human eye. This "eye" orientation I believe gives many of his works highly symbolic abilities to communicate and establish themselves to the viewer. It establishes an organic vitality in a naturally stable and secure design. But there are problems. Kehoe, by basing his work on this structural pattern, is hard-pressed to break away from a kind of predetermined two-dimensionality. In other words, just as there is basically only one view of the human head—the front, the same is true for many of the works on display. There is often only one or two ways to view it: the front or the back. I believe that sculpture as a three-dimensional art should fully exploit its three-dimensionality. Kehoe has presented us with work that could be communicated very well by a painting. Regardless of the two-dimensional aspects of Kehoe’s works, I think they remain very provocative, subtle, and intriguing.