May 15, 1975

Eric Walker

“We think by feeling. What is there to know? I hear my being dance from ear to ear.”
~Theodore Roethke, “The Waking”

Four years of Davidson are fast fading. Time now to speculate on exactly what happened before switching forward momentum back
on. Oh Highways 21 and 77, here I come one last time. What did I bring to Davidson? What do
I take away? I came with questions, only I’m just now realizing what they were. After a 36-course feast, I’ve
sneaked a few private conclusions in a doggie bag if you don’t mind.

What is there to know? That was the basic question four years back. We (or maybe just I) descended on
Davidson to check out what it had to offer. Here maybe things would fall into place, answers appear, a way
of life come clear. That Great Conclusion never came. Or at least it never hit me over the head, never
came striding in with 76 trombones, never kept marching day after day in my head. Perhaps the biggest unanswered question
around Davidson is how do you know when you do stumble on the Answer? Will someone please define conviction?

Davidson is a thinking place. What is there to know? How do we know? We ponder these things at 8
in the morning and way on past midnight. If we’re committed to anything, we’re committed to making this search with
our minds. What bothers me is that I’m uncertain my mind would recognize the Great Conclusion if it stared me
right in the eye. I may have looked it over already. I don’t know. But since four-year veterans of supervised
thinking are supposed to have some conclusions, o.k., here’s one: thinking isn’t enough. Man took a tumble so I’m told,
we’re a mixture of mind and matter, there’s a little beast in the best of us. Simply, we feel as
much as think. So much of our thinking is determined by gut rumblings. Conviction, I tentatively propose, is feeling your
thinking. I’m pretty much convinced that if I ever have the pleasure to shake hands with the Great Conclusion the
meeting will be orchestrated in my head - with a kazoo band Hallelujah Chorus.

Thinking can be dull, alas. Feeling your thinking makes all the difference. I submit as evidence a certain preoccupation with
drugs here and among us. Conviction seems a little closer in smoky rooms where some retreat to feel themselves think.
(Careful, impersonal pronouns only.) It’s good exercise, ladies and gentlemen, but have you ever tried to fathom some of those
three-word statements of life’s Purpose the next morning? Altered perception has fascinated many I’ve known. Altered perception is feeling your
thinking, no more, no less. Kick it off with a little help from friends, it comes, and it goes too
for sure. Cultivate it on your own, it comes and it still goes. But it just might stick around. The
Great Conclusion, right?

Cultivate it on your own, did he say? That’s right, that’s what I plan to be doing rolling on down
the asphalt exits from Davidson. What’s my battle plan? Simple. All this line of thought came together in a line
from a friend’s letter: “and we know that poetry is the finest form of altered perception.” Exactly. Poetry? Well it
works for me better than anything else I’ve found. A high school English teacher once asked our class to define
poetry. We hemmed and hawed, but I sure as hell didn’t know till lately.

Poetry is the finest form of altered perception. Poetry is a way of seeing, a field for cultivating visions that
defy plodding mind alone. It’s a synthesizing process. It’s a way of asking question after question for the sake of
asking without ever demanding a final answer. Enough answers come along the way to keep me going. Poetry is where
I feel my thinking most. In four years at Davidson I’ve basically managed to work my way backwards through one
line of poetry: “We think by feeling. What is there to know?” That’s the sum of four years of thinking
at Davidson and four years of feeling at Davidson. There have been moments, bright moments, when I’ve felt my thinking.
They all seem to fade, though. Will they?Ever string together? Maybe I’m a hopeless victim of the pain and pleasure
principle. One other poem helps keep me going. Someone here at Davidson steered me to it and that, if nothing
else, has made it worthwhile. (For the sake of bibliography, it’s Sylvia Plath’s “Black Rook in Rainy Weather”). I’ll murmur
the last lines leaving Davidson, and I suspect they would do for others: “The wait’s begun again,/ The long wait
for the angel,/ For that rare, random descent.”

Quiz tests world economic productivity
By CHARLES E. RATLIFF
Professor of Economics

The faculty guest column this week is in the form of a quiz on some facts. This is in keeping
with the season (see academic calendar in case you are a senior who has arranged a no-exam spring term) and
is in good company (commence reading columnist Sydney Harris in case you are not acquainted with the company). If you
are not satisfied with your performance on this test, you might check various publications of the Overseas Development Council, the
United Nations, or the World Council of Churches.

1. The gross planetary product (GPP) per capita, or the total value of final goods and services produced in the
world per person, in 1973 was:
(a) $700
(b) $1,000
(c) $1,300

2. The GPP is globally distributed so that the 30 percent of us living in the high-income regions receives the
following percent of the world’s income:
(a) 30 percent
(b) 50 percent
(c) 85 percent

3. The 5.4 percent of the world’s population living in the USA receives the following percent of the world’s income:
(a) 14 percent
(b) 26 percent
(c) 41 percent

4. The 20 percent of the world’s population living in South Asia receives the following percent of the world’s income:
(a) 3 percent
(b) 6 percent
(c) 9 percent

5. The largest single source (80 percent of the total) of foreign exchange for the low-income countries is:
(a) trade
(b) official development assistance
(c) private transfers

6. Among the sixteen Development Assistance Committee (DAC) countries, the USA ranks ? in terms of the relative amount of
official development assistance to low-income countries (official development assistance as a percent of GNP):
(a) first, or highest
(b) fifth
(c) fourteenth

7. Expenditures on tobacco products in the USA in relation to the country’s net official development assistance, are:
(a) half as much
(b) four times as much
(c) six times as much

8. Grants by private voluntary agencies amount to ? percent of the net flow of official and private financial resources
from DAC countries to low-income countries and multilateral agencies:
(a) 1 percent
(b) 5 percent
(c) 15 percent

9. Annual grain consumption (direct and indirect) per person in South Asia is about:
(a) 350 pounds
(b) 1,200 pounds
(c) 2,000 pounds

10. Annual grain consumption (direct and indirect) per person in the USA and Canada is about:
(a) 350 pounds
(b) 1,200 pounds
(c) 2,000 pounds

11. The approximate amounts of land required to produce a meat and milk-centered diet for one person and a diet
based on plant protein for one person are ? and ? acres, respectively:
(a) 3 1/2, 1/5
(b) 1, 1/4
(c) 5, 1

12. Twenty-five years ago the annual increase in global demand for cereals was about 12 million tons; now it is
about ? million tons per year:
(a) 15
(b) 25
(c) 35

13. In Japan the application of fertilizer per acre of land in agriculture is about ? times that in India:
(a) 10
(b) 25
(c) 50

14. The 1972-1974 price rises for petroleum, fertilizer, and grain caused the cost of these essential imports for low-income countries
to increase by an amount equal to ? of their exports:
(a) 1/10
(b) 1/5
(c) 1/3

15. Energy consumption per capita is more than ? times greater in the USA than in India:
(a) 10
(b) 35
(c) 60

16. Total military spending in billions of USA dollars in the world is approximately:
(a) 100
(b) 250
(c) 500

17. The nation-state is now as militarily obsolete as the city-state because of:
(a) the nuclear warhead and the ICBM
(b) the manganese nodules
(c) the telecommunications satellite

18. A UN Declaration on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order:
(a) was adopted in 1947
(b) was adopted in 1974
(c) has been considered but not adopted

Answers: (1) c (2) c (3) c (4) a (5) a (6) c (7) c (8) b (9) a (10)
b (11) a (12) c (13) a (14) c (15) c (16) c (17) a (18) b
