| Che Aauvidsontan

“THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO INEVITABILITY AS LONG AS THERE IS A WILLINGNESS TO CONTEMPLATE WHAT IS HAPPENING.”
-Marshall McLuhan

Mark Deaton, Editor
Andrew Lamas, Executive Editor
Larry Mimms, Managing Editor

FOUR
April 3, 1975

On the fifth day

The decision of President Spencer this week to provide students with an extra day per week of psychological counseling services
from Amelia Dockery and the commitment of $2000 for a fifth day per week of counseling reflects a student-oriented mindset
often missing recently in administrative decisions. We recognize that this was not an easy stand for Dr. Spencer to take.
At a time when administrators must greedily eye every dollar, the cost of maintaining a professional counseling staff of the
calibre we now have is immediately suspect. The quality of psychological counseling Davidson now seeks to offer is not inexpensive.
And there is little objective evidence proving beyond a tight-fisted financier’s doubt that psychological counseling is either necessary or effective.
Yet outside the budget meeting statistics, the need for and effectiveness of psychological counseling appears to us to be well-documented.
The conviction that counseling makes a substantial impact in improving the quality of life here at Davidson is practically indisputable.
We are highly appreciative of Dr. Spencer’s sensitivity to student feelings concerning the importance of a strong campus counseling program.
His decision reinforces a basic tenet of Davidson College, that this community at least attempts to provide for legitimate personal
as well as academic needs of students.

Union

Although we appreciate College Union Director C. Shaw Smith’s idea that a college union be “the house of serendipity,” we
feel it is time that the Union budgeting system be placed in better order. Over the past several years, many
student Union Board members have been either uninterested in Union finances or unorganized in their approaches toward fiscal affairs. Consequently,
Union administrators have been totally responsible for the Union budgeting system. With the reorganization of the Union by Board President
Richard Wassen, we feel that students should now responsibly assume their proper roles as the fiscal managers of the Union
programming budget.

We further support a full evaluation of the counseling program after the 1975-76 year. We do not perceive this as
an attempt to justify and legitimize psychological counseling. We feel that the desirability and need of such a program has
been demonstrated in past years. We look forward to an evaluation that attempts to identify the extent and nature of
student needs for counseling and attempts to make any necessary adjustments to increase the effectiveness of the program. We would
hope that the college will see fit to have an outside evaluative service make recommendations. Further, an evaluation of such
a program demands statistics of hours spent in counseling, numbers of visits, types of problems discussed, and methods of counseling.
Yet such evaluative tools are somewhat fruitless if they are not accompanied by appraisals by students of the services. We
look to Dean of Students Will H. Terry to devise a standardized questionnaire for students counseled which will supply such
necessary information as to the program effectiveness. We feel that such a process could be easily devised to protect the
anonymity of students. We feel that it is a vital part of any evaluation process to receive such direct student
input, and we encourage students to take this responsibility in furthering the effectiveness of the program.

Hat trick

In order to facilitate the proper management of student funds designated for Union activities, two changes in the present budgeting
system should be made. First, a separate account for the travel expenses of Mr. Smith should be established. As it
now stands, some unnecessary problems have arisen concerning fund transfers from various accounts forSmith’s travel expenditures. In addition, we suggest
that all checks leaving the Union be co-signed by a member of the Union staff and by a Union Board
member. Through a cooperative effort of all those administering Union programming, we are confident that the fiscal management of Union
affairs will improve.

Letter to the Editor

Jonas reevaluates

To the Editor:

Davidson’s sesquicentennial is fast approaching, or at least it would seem to be beneficial for the college to assume so
judging from the motivation it has already provided toward improving the Davidson education. Ideas for building improvements, 10 to 1
student-faculty ratios, interdepartmental programs, big-name entertainment, and getting faculty members of high “academic” quality are all good and stimulating, but
how much and what kind of effect will such programs really have on Davidson or education?

All of the ideas I have heard so far seem strictly expansionist in nature and hardly need a “goals” committee.
I believe the main problem is that the ideas are ideas for building Davidson rather than for changing and improving
it. They are ideas based on old goals, and old goals only build more of the same college. The college
is O.K., and that’s part of the problem. “OK-ness” has a tendency to stagnate, no matter how big or impressive
it gets.

Is a Davidson education supposed to impart knowledge or understanding? Here is where the question of expansion or quality improvement
seems to be pertinent. Is Davidson here to instruct youth as to the ways of the world or to elbow
them to discover it? The difference is important, for it is the difference between a conventional education and a creative
one. It produces either an individual who will submit “successfully” to the world or one who will help recreate that
world. Perhaps the first goal of the Goals Committee should be to look at the goal of education. For me,
education is first learning how to learn. Perhaps the first year of college should concentrate on getting that message across.
Could an “academic” faculty teach this? Could anyone?

Who will be at Davidson 12 years from now? A percentage of the professors and a much larger percentage of
the “support team,” that is, the poor workers. Chances are they or their children will be around to witness the
great “improvements” of Davidson’s bicentennial also. I believe that a good indicator as to the quality of a Davidson education
is their situation. How much communication between the town and gown of Davidson has any lasting effect for them or
us? Will it ever change? It’s been a couple of Davidson semi-centennials since the slaves were “freed.” How many more
generations will conventional “improvement” snatch from us without change? Would it be too difficult for the workers to take Easter
Monday off? Good Friday? The Smoking Lounge in the library was a great “improvement.” Has anyone seen the workers’ “lounge”
lately? Perhaps, even more important, has anyone said or done anything about it?

I do not see the workers’ well-being as our responsibility. Rather, it is one of our greatest educational opportunities. Its
improvement, as a year-long freshman “orientation,” would be just another sign that Davidson, and education in general (in which order
depends on us), is pursuing the goals of the future, rather than the past.

Wayne B. Jonas ‘77
Davidson College

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night
will ordinarily be printed that week.

The magician’s hat
